{"id": "8506899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8506899", "title": "Administrative Law Review", "text": "Administrative Law Review\n\nThe Administrative Law Review was established in 1948 and is the official law journal of the American Bar Association Section of Administrative Law & Regulatory Practice.\n\nThe journal is a quarterly publication that is managed and edited by approximately 80 students at the Washington College of Law. The 2018–2019 Editor-in-Chief is Caroline Raschbaum. The journal has been cited by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (which is known as the administrative law circuit), and since 2000 has been cited by the Second, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Tenth Circuit Courts of Appeal. It was also cited by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nThe Administrative Law Review selects staff members based on a competitive exercise that tests candidates on their editing skills, research skills, legal analysis skills, and legal writing ability. There is not a preset number of accepted candidates each year; recent classes of new editors have ranged from about 45 to 50. The candidate \"write-on\" exercise is distributed to candidates during their second semester at the law school. An optional \"grade-on\" process allows students to become staff members based solely on their grades. Transfer students are also eligible for admission through a fall write-on process.\n\n"}
{"id": "18062538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062538", "title": "Advocates for Injured Workers", "text": "Advocates for Injured Workers\n\nAdvocates for Injured Workers (AIW) is a student legal clinic operating in Toronto and affiliated with the University of Toronto Faculty of Law. This clinic is supervised by the Industrial Accident Victims' Group of Ontario (IAVGO) - itself a community legal clinic funded by Legal Aid Ontario. As per By-law 4 of the Law Society of Upper Canada, student work at AIW is reviewed by a fully licensed lawyer and hence exempt from the normal requirements to practice law in Ontario.\n\nAdvocates for Injured Workers provides free legal representation for low-income clients who have been injured in workplace accidents or have suffered onset occupational injuries. AIW deals almost exclusively with claims under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, which are made to the Workplace Safety & Insurance Board (WSIB) of Ontario and may be appealed to the Workplace Safety and Insurance Appeals Tribunal (WSIAT). Very occasionally the clinic may also represent clients in consequential actions that stem from a workplace injury, such as actions before the Ontario Labour Relations Board (OLRB) and the Ontario Human Rights Commission (OHRC).\n\nThe clinic is staffed by approximately twenty-five part-time student volunteers during the academic year, and during the summer by eight full-time student employees. Every caseworker is responsible for their own individual client files. Upper-year volunteers have the opportunity to pursue clinical work for course credit. The clinic carries around one hundred active files at a time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975", "title": "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty", "text": "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty\n\nThe Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM Treaty or ABMT) (1972—2002) was an arms control treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union on the limitation of the anti-ballistic missile (ABM) systems used in defending areas against ballistic missile-delivered nuclear weapons. Under the terms of the treaty, each party was limited to two ABM complexes, each of which was to be limited to 100 anti-ballistic missiles.\n\nSigned in 1972, it was in force for the next 30 years. In 1997, five years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, four former Soviet republics agreed with the United States to succeed the USSR's role in the treaty. In June 2002 the United States withdrew from the treaty, leading to its termination.\n\nThroughout the late 1950s and into the 1960s, the United States and the Soviet Union had been developing missile systems with the ability to shoot down incoming ICBM warheads. During this period, the US considered the defense of the US as part of reducing the overall damage inflicted in a full nuclear exchange. As part of this defense, Canada and the US established the North American Air Defense Command (now called North American Aerospace Defense Command).\n\nBy the early 1950s, US research on the Nike Zeus missile system had developed to the point where small improvements would allow it to be used as the basis of an operational ABM system. Work started on a short-range, high-speed counterpart known as Sprint to provide defense for the ABM sites themselves. By the mid-1960s, both systems showed enough promise to start development of base selection for a limited ABM system dubbed Sentinel. In 1967, the US announced that Sentinel itself would be scaled down to the smaller and less expensive Safeguard. Soviet doctrine called for development of its own ABM system and return to strategic parity with the US. This was achieved with the operational deployment of the A-35 ABM system and its successors, which remain operational to this day.\n\nThe development of multiple independently targetable reentry vehicle (MIRV) systems allowed a single ICBM to deliver as many as ten separate warheads at a time. An ABM defense system could be overwhelmed with the sheer number of warheads. Upgrading it to counter the additional warheads would be economically unfeasible: The defenders required one rocket per incoming warhead, whereas the attackers could place 10 warheads on a single missile at a reasonable cost. To further protect against ABM systems, the Soviet MIRV missiles were equipped with decoys; R-36M heavy missiles carried as many as 40. These decoys would appear as warheads to an ABM, effectively requiring engagement of five times as many targets and rendering defense even less effective.\n\nThe United States first proposed an anti-ballistic missile treaty at the 1967 Glassboro Summit Conference during discussions between U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara and Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union Alexei Kosygin. McNamara argued both that ballistic missile defense could provoke an arms race, and that it might provoke a first-strike against the nation fielding the defense. Kosygin rejected this reasoning. They were trying to minimize the number of nuclear missiles in the world. Following the proposal of the Sentinel and Safeguard decisions on American ABM systems, the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks began in November 1969 (SALT I). By 1972 an agreement had been reached to limit strategic defensive systems. Each country was allowed two sites at which it could base a defensive system, one for the capital and one for ICBM silos.\n\nThe treaty was signed during the 1972 Moscow Summit on 26 May by the President of the United States, Richard Nixon and the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Leonid Brezhnev; and ratified by the US Senate on 3 August 1972.\n\nThe 1974 Protocol reduced the number of sites to one per party, largely because neither country had developed a second site. The sites were Moscow for the USSR and the North Dakota Safeguard Complex for the US, which was already under construction.\n\nThe Treaty limited only ABMs capable of defending against \"strategic ballistic missiles\", without attempting to define \"strategic\". It was understood that both ICBMs and SLBMs are obviously \"strategic\". Neither country intended to stop the development of counter-tactical ABMs. The topic became disputable as soon as most potent counter-tactical ABMs started to be capable of shooting down SLBMs (SLBMs naturally tend to be much slower than ICBMs), nevertheless both sides continued counter-tactical ABM development.\n\nOn 23 March 1983, Ronald Reagan announced the Strategic Defense Initiative, a research program into ballistic missile defense which would be \"consistent with our obligations under the ABM Treaty\". The project was a blow to Yuri Andropov's so-called \"peace offensive\". Andropov said that \"It is time [Washington] stopped thinking up one option after another in search of the best way of unleashing nuclear war in the hope of winning it. To do this is not just irresponsible. It is madness\".\n\nRegardless of the opposition, Reagan gave every indication that SDI would not be used as a bargaining chip and that the United States would do all in its power to build the system. The Soviets were threatened because the Americans might have been able to make a nuclear first strike possible. In \"The Nuclear Predicament,\" Beckman claims that one of the central goals of Soviet diplomacy was to terminate SDI. A surprise attack from the Americans would destroy much of the Soviet ICBM fleet, allowing SDI to defeat a \"ragged\" Soviet retaliatory response. Furthermore, if the Soviets chose to enter this new arms race, they would further cripple their economy. The Soviets could not afford to ignore Reagan's new endeavor, therefore their policy at the time was to enter negotiations with the Americans. By 1987, however, the USSR withdrew its opposition, concluding the SDI posed no threat and scientifically \"would never work.\"\n\nSDI research went ahead, although it did not achieve the hoped-for result. SDI research was cut back following the end of Reagan's presidency, and in 1995 it was reiterated in a presidential joint statement that \"missile defense systems may be deployed... [that] will not pose a realistic threat to the strategic nuclear force of the other side and will not be tested to... [create] that capability.\" This was reaffirmed in 1997.\n\nAlthough the Soviet Union ceased to exist in December 1991, in the view of the U.S. Department of State, the treaty continued in force. An additional memorandum of understanding was prepared in 1997, establishing Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine as successor states to the Soviet Union, for the purposes of the treaty.\n\nOn 13 December 2001, George W. Bush gave Russia notice of the United States' withdrawal from the treaty, in accordance with the clause that required six months' notice before terminating the pact—the first time in recent history that the United States has withdrawn from a major international arms treaty. This led to the eventual creation of the American Missile Defense Agency.\n\nSupporters of the withdrawal argued that it was a necessity in order to test and build a limited National Missile Defense to protect the United States from nuclear blackmail by a rogue state. The withdrawal also had many critics. John Rhinelander, a negotiator of the ABM treaty, predicted that the withdrawal would be a \"fatal blow\" to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and would lead to a \"world without effective legal constraints on nuclear proliferation.\" The construction of a missile defense system was also feared to enable the US to attack with a nuclear first strike.\n\nPutin responded to the withdrawal by ordering a build-up of Russia's nuclear capabilities, designed to counterbalance U.S. capabilities.\n\nRussia and the United States signed the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty in Moscow on 24 May 2002. This treaty mandates cuts in deployed strategic nuclear warheads, but without actually mandating cuts to total stockpiled warheads, and without any mechanism for enforcement.\n\nIn interviews with Oliver Stone in 2017, Russian president Vladimir Putin said that in trying to persuade Russia to accept US withdrawal from the treaty, both Bill Clinton and George W. Bush had tried, without evidence, to convince him of an emerging nuclear threat from Iran.\n\nOn 1 March 2018, Russian president Vladimir Putin, in an address to the Federal Assembly, announced the development of a series of technologically new missile systems and stressed that those were designed as a response to U.S. withdrawal from the ABM Treaty. His statements were referred to by the Trump administration officials as largely boastful untruths, as well as confirmation that \"Russia ha[d] been developing destabilizing weapons systems for over a decade, in direct violation of its treaty obligations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1003282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003282", "title": "Barbados Slave Code", "text": "Barbados Slave Code\n\nThe Barbados Slave Code of 1661 was a law passed by the colonial English\nlegislature to provide a legal basis for slavery in the Caribbean island of Barbados. The code's preamble, which stated that the law's purpose was to \"protect them [slaves] as we do men's other goods and Chattels\", established that black slaves would be treated as chattel property in the island's court.\n\nThe Barbados slave code ostensibly sought to protect slaves from cruel masters and masters from unruly slaves; in practice, it provided far more extensive protections for masters than for slaves. The law required masters to provide each slave with one set of clothing per year, but it set no standards for slaves' diet, housing, or working conditions. However, it also denied slaves even basic rights guaranteed under English common law, such as the right to life. It allowed the slaves' owners to do entirely as they wished to their slaves, including mutilating them and burning them alive, without fear of reprisal.\n\nThroughout British North America, slavery evolved in practice before it was codified into law. The Barbados slave code of 1661 marked the beginning of the legal codification of slavery. The Barbados Assembly reenacted the slave code, with minor modifications, in 1676, 1682, and 1688. The Barbados slave code also served as the basis for the slave codes adopted in several other British colonies, including Jamaica (1664), South Carolina (1696), and Antigua (1702).\n\nThe legal basis for slavery was established in Mexico in 1636. These statutes created the status of chattel slave for those of African descent, i.e. they were slaves for life and the status of slave was inherited. Slave status passed to children through the mother in these statutes. Virginia's 1662 statute reads, \"All children borne in this country shall be held bond or free only according to the condition of the mother.\"\n\nThe Barbados slave code, named An Act for Better Ordering and Governing of Negroes, (1661) declared,\n\"If any Negro or slave whatsoever shall offer any violence to any Christian by striking or the like, such Negro or slave shall for his or her first offence be severely whipped by the Constable.\nFor his second offence of that nature he shall be severely whipped, his nose slit, and be burned in some part of his face with a hot iron.\nAnd being brutish slaves, [they] deserve not, for the baseness of their condition, to be tried by the legal trial of twelve men of their peers, as the subjects of England are.\nAnd it is further enacted and ordained that if any Negro or other slave under punishment by his master unfortunately shall suffer in life or member, which seldom happens, no person whatsoever shall be liable to any fine therefore.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44839151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44839151", "title": "Belfast Guidelines on Amnesty and Accountability", "text": "Belfast Guidelines on Amnesty and Accountability\n\nThe Belfast Guidelines is a project led by Professor Louise Mallinder and Prof Tom Hadden of the Transitional Justice Institute. The Guidelines examine the principles concerning the legality and legitimacy of amnesties in states transitioning from conflict or authoritarian regimes. They were drafted by an expert group that included Prof David Kretzmer and Prof William Schabas. They have been widely translated into Arabic, Chinese, Malay, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Thai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176089", "title": "Berne three-step test", "text": "Berne three-step test\n\nThe Berne three-step test is a clause that is included in several international treaties on intellectual property. Signatories of those treaties agree to standardize possible limitations and exceptions to exclusive rights under their respective national copyright laws.\n\nThe three-step test was first established in relation to the exclusive right of reproduction under Article 9(2) of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works in 1967. Article 9 of the Berne Convention states that:\n\n\"Right of Reproduction: 1. Generally; 2. Possible exceptions; 3. Sound and visual recordings\" - (1) Authors of literary and artistic works protected by this Convention shall have the exclusive right of authorizing the reproduction of these works, in any manner or form. (2) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to permit the reproduction of such works in certain special cases, provided that such reproduction does not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work and does not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the author. (3) Any sound or visual recording shall be considered as a reproduction for the purposes of this Convention. \nThe three-step test in Article 9(2) of the Berne does not apply to copyright exceptions that are implemented under other parts of the Berne convention that have a separate standard, such as those in articles 2(4), 2(7), 2(8), 1 bis, 10, 10 bis and 13(1), or the Berne Appendix. \n\nSince then, the three-step test has been modified and transplanted into the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, the WIPO Copyright Treaty (Article 10), the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty, the EU Computer Programs Directive (Article 6(3)), the EU Database Directive (Article 6(3)), and the EU Copyright Directive (Article 5(5)).\n\nThe test as included in Article 13 of TRIPs reads:\n\n\"Members shall confine limitations and exceptions to exclusive rights to certain special cases which do not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the rights holder.\"\nThe WTO three-step test does not apply to cases where the Berne or Rome Conventions provide separate standards for exceptions, or for rights not covered in the TRIPS Agreement.\n\nThe technical legal reasoning which has been applied to suggest how this wording should be interpreted is arcane (see the references below). To date, only one case (before a WTO dispute settlement panel, involving U.S. copyright exemptions allowing restaurants, bars and shops to play radio and TV broadcasts without paying licensing fees, passed in 1998 as a rider to the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act) has actually required an interpretation of the test. \n\nThe three-step test may prove to be extremely important if any nations attempt to reduce the scope of copyright law, because unless the WTO decides that their modifications comply with the test, such states are likely to face trade sanctions. Exceptions to copyright protection are required to be clearly defined and narrow in scope and reach. For instance, the three-step test was invoked as a justification for refusing certain exceptions to copyright wished for by members of the French parliament during the examination of the controversial DADVSI copyright bill.\n\nTRIPs Article 30, covering limitations and exemptions to patent law, is also derived from a somewhat different three-step test, that includes \"taking account of the legitimate interests of third parties.\" Exceptions to exclusive patent rights are not subject to this test if they are implemented through Article 31 of the TRIPS, or Articles 6, 40 or 44.2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1868681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868681", "title": "Chief Justice of Fiji", "text": "Chief Justice of Fiji\n\nThe Chief Justice is Fiji's highest judicial officer. The office and its responsibilities are set out in Chapter 5 of the 2013 Constitution of Fiji. The Chief Justice is appointed by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister, who is required by the Constitution to consult the Attorney-General (Section 106-1). Under the previous 1997 Constitution, the Prime Minister was required to consult with the Leader of the Opposition. The appointment is permanent, until the Chief Justice reaches the age of 75 years (Section 110-1).\n\nLike other judges, the Chief Justice need not be a Fijian citizen. When Sir Timoci Tuivaga retired in 2002, there were calls from the Citizens Constitutional Forum (a pro-democracy, human rights organization) for a foreigner to be appointed, to restore the independence of the judiciary that had been seen to be politically compromised by the 2000 coup. The government, however, appointed Fijian Daniel Fatiaki. In 2007, the military-backed interim government appointed Australian citizen Anthony Gates as Acting Chief Justice; he became permanent Chief Justice on 5 December 2008.\n\nAccording to Chapter 5 of the 2013 Constitution, the Chief Justice sits on the High Court (Section 100) and presides over the Supreme Court (Section 98), but is barred from membership of the Court of Appeal. This stipulation is designed to give the Appeal Court a measure of independence from the other two courts. The Chief Justice also chairs the Judicial Service Commission (Section 104(a)).\n\nAccording to the 2013 Constitution of Fiji, the Chief Justice is the first in the order of succession to discharge the duties of the President as Acting President should the President of Fiji be unable to discharge her or his office or if the office becomes vacant for any reason. The 2013 Constitution also stipulates that in the absence of the Chief Justice, the next senior most substantive judge performs the duties of the President as the Acting President.\n\nBefore 1871, when Seru Epenisa Cakobau established the first unified Kingdom of Viti under his authority, what is now Fiji was a patchwork of warring fiefdoms. Forming a government dominated by foreigners, Cakobau appointed Sir Charles St Julian, an Australian newspaper editor, as the first Chief Justice in 1872. St Julian died in office a few weeks after Cakobau ceded Fiji to the United Kingdom on 10 October 1874, under the provisions of the Pacific Islanders Protection Acts of 1872 and 1875, (amended in 1875), (long title: An Act for the Prevention and Punishment of Criminal Outrages upon Natives of the Islands in the Pacific Ocean) which sought to bring the rule of law to British subjects who were using unconventional methods to supply labour for the European-run cotton plantations in Fiji. St. Julian was followed as Chief Justice in 1875 by Sir William Hackett.\n\nFrom 1877 through 1961, the Chief Justice of Fiji was \"ex officio\" Chief Justice of the High Commissioner's Court, more commonly known as the Chief Judicial Commissioner for the Western Pacific, the chief judicial officer throughout the British Western Pacific Territories, a supra-colonial entity established by the \"Western Pacific Orders-in-Council 1877\" (amended in 1879 and 1880), and by the \"Pacific Order-in-Council 1893\". Appeals lay to the Privy Council in London. From 1942 to 1945 the High Commission was suspended by military administration during the War in the Pacific. Headed by a High Commissioner for the Western Pacific, who was also \"ex officio\" the Governor of Fiji, until the end of 1952, it included numerous islands, mostly small, throughout Oceania. Composition varied over time, but Fiji (1877-1952) and the Solomon Islands (1893-1976) were its most durable members.\n\nFrom the beginning of 1953, Fiji and Tonga were separated from the High Commission as a prelude to full independence, and the High Commission offices were transferred to Honiara on Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands. The office of High Commissioner was separated from that of the Governor of Fiji and was now held by the Governor of the Solomon Islands). The High Commissioner's Court, however, continued to sit in Suva, and the Chief Justice of Fiji remained the Chief Judicial Commissioner of the Western Pacific until 1962.\n\nFrom 1962 onwards, functions of the High Commissioner's Court began to be transferred to the increasingly independent island states under the provisions of \"Western Pacific (Courts) Order in Council, 1961\". The Judicial Commissioner for the Western Pacific became the Chief Justice of the High Court of the Western Pacific, and removed from Fiji to join the rest of the British High Commission in the Solomon Islands. The position was separated from that of the Chief Justice of Fiji.\n\nFiji gained independence on 10 October 1970. Although no longer connected with the British High Commission, the position of Chief Justice of Fiji continued to be filled by judges from Britain, Australia and New Zealand until the appointment of Sir Timoci Tuivaga in 1980.\n\nThe constitutional arrangements relating to the Chief Justice were temporarily overturned in 2000, following a counter-coup by Commodore Frank Bainimarama to neutralize a civilian coup d'état instigated by George Speight. The then-Chief Justice, Sir Timoci Tuivaga recognized the Interim Military Government that took office and abrogated the Constitution on 29 May, and drafted the controversial Administration of Justice Decree that was immediately promulgated by the military administration. This decree abolished the Supreme Court, made the Chief Justice head of the Appeal Court, and raised the retirement age of the Chief Justice from 70 years to 75. These changes were reversed following a decision of the High Court to reinstate the Constitution on 15 November 2000, a decision upheld by the Appeal Court on 1 March 2001.\n\nThe present Chief Justice is Anthony Gates, who succeeded Daniel Fatiaki following the military coup that deposed the Qarase government on 5 December 2006, when Commodore Josaia Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama, the Commander of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces and Acting President of Fiji, sent Fatiaki on leave. The military regime named him as Acting Chief Justice on 3 January 2007, and installed him as the substantive Chief Justice on 5 December 2008.\n\nNotes\nCitations\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52219686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52219686", "title": "Community Legal Assistance Society", "text": "Community Legal Assistance Society\n\nCommunity Legal Assistance Society (CLAS), which previously went by the name \"Vancouver Community Legal Assistance Society (V-CLAS)\", is a non-governmental organization in British Columbia, Canada which provides legal services to low- and moderate-income persons in the areas of mental health law, human rights law, and poverty law. Founded in 1971, CLAS is often referred to as Canada's first community law office. CLAS operates a BC Human Rights Clinic, a Mental Health Law Program, and a poverty law-focused Community Law Program.\n\nCLAS was founded by future British Columbia premier Mike Harcourt. In the summer of 1971, it opened its first office at 527 East Broadway in Vancouver. Its staff have been considered leaders in the field of disability and human rights law and the Supreme Court of Canada has noted how frequently CLAS represents accused persons with mental health issues. CLAS is billed as seeking to advance access to justice through the use of innovative legal tools. For instance, when a lawyer at CLAS, former MLA, Ian Waddell launched the first successful consumer class action in Canada. \n\n"}
{"id": "2935900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935900", "title": "Conflict of laws in the United States", "text": "Conflict of laws in the United States\n\nConflict of laws in the United States is the field of procedural law dealing with choice of law rules when a legal action implicates the substantive laws of more than one jurisdiction and a court must determine which law is most appropriate to resolve the action. In the United States, the rules governing these matters have diverged from the traditional rules applied internationally. The outcome of this process may require a court in one jurisdiction to apply the law of a different jurisdiction.\n\nUntil the 20th century, traditional choice of law rules were based on the principle that legal rights vest automatically at legally significant and ascertainable times and places. For example, a dispute regarding property would be decided by the law of the place the property was located. Disputes in tort would be decided by the place where the injury occurred.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, the traditional conflict of laws approach came under criticism from some members of the U.S. legal community who saw it as rigid and arbitrary; the traditional method sometimes forced application of the laws of a state with no connection to either party, except that a tort or contract claim arose between the parties in that state. This period of intellectual ferment (which coincided with the rise of the legal realism movement) gave birth to a number of innovative new approaches.\n\nCourts may look for a provision in the law of the choice of law state that permits the court to use the lex fori, i.e. law of the forum state. For example, suppose State X has a rule that says that if property located in State X is conveyed by a contract entered into in any other state, then the law of that other state will govern the validity of the contract. Suppose also that State Y has a rule that says that if a contract entered into in State Y conveys property located in any other state, then the law of that other state will govern the validity of the contract. Now suppose that party A conveys land located in State X to party B through a contract entered into in State Y. If a lawsuit arising from that transaction is brought in State X, the law of State X requires the courts of that state to apply the law of the state where the contract was made, which is state Y. However, the courts of State X might note that a court in State Y would apply the law of State X, because that is where the land is located, and the law of State Y follows the land.\n\nMost U.S. states frown upon renvoi in a choice of law situation. In this example, they would insist that the only law the courts of State X should look at is the \"law of contracts\" of State Y, not the \"whole law\" of State Y, which includes that state's law governing choice of law. The basic criticism of renvoi is that it can lead to an endless circle. In the above example, it could be argued that if the law of State Y points back to State X, then the law of State X would only once again require application of the law of State Y, and so forth and so on without end.\n\nThe significant contacts test evaluates the contacts between the states and each party to the case, and determines which state has the most significant contacts with the litigation as a whole. This test has been criticized for failing to respect the sovereignty of the state in which the cause of action arose, and because courts can tip the balance in one way or another in deciding which contacts are significant.\n\nThe seat of the relationship test specifically examines the relationship between the parties to the lawsuit, and uses the law of the state in which the relationship between the parties was most significant. For example, if two people who live in State X meet and develop a relationship in State Y, and a cause of action arises between them while they are traveling through State Z, a court of any state applying this test would probably apply the law of State Y, because that state is the seat of the relationship between these two parties.\n\nThe balance of interests test examines the interests of the states themselves, and the reasons for which the laws in question were passed. It is the brainchild of University of Chicago law professor Brainerd Currie, who outlined the doctrine in a series of articles from the 1950s and 60s. Under this form of analysis, the court must determine whether any conflict between the laws of the states is a true conflict, a false conflict, or an unprovided-for case.\nSome courts have sought to distinguish different types of law, giving more weight to laws of foreign states that are intended to regulate conduct (e.g. prohibitions on disfavored activities), and less weight to laws of foreign states that are intended to allocate losses (e.g. tort immunity for charitable organizations; joint and several liability).\n\nThe comparative impairment test asks which state's policies would suffer more if their law was not applied. This is similar to interest analysis, in that the interests of the state are taken into account - however, this test does not look to see which state benefits more from the application of its laws, but rather for situations in which the other state's interests will actually be harmed by the application of the laws of the forum state.\n\nUse of the \"better rule\" test, like renvoi, is frowned upon because it appears to be little more than a gimmick to allow a court to apply the law of its own state. The test itself presupposes that, between the laws presented by the two or more states in which the action arose, there is one set of laws which is empirically better. Because courts will almost always presume that their own state has better laws, this is effectively a device to avoid applying choice of law principles altogether.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has held that there are certain limitations imposed by the U.S. Constitution on the ability of states to apply their own law to events occurring in other states.\n\nIn one of the earliest cases in this area, \"Home Insurance Co. v. Dick\", 281 U.S. 397 (1930), the Court held that the state of Texas could not constitutionally apply its own rule invalidating contract clauses that required any statute of limitations under two years to a contract that had no relation to Texas beyond the fact that the plaintiff was a Texas resident. The plaintiff had sued a New York reinsurer of a Mexican corporation that was primarily insured in Mexico, which is where the \"injury\" had occurred when a tugboat owned by the company was lost in a fire. The plaintiff was living in Mexico at the time (although not a resident), but returned to Texas to file suit. These contacts were insufficient to satisfy the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe doctrine steadily developed in a series of cases over the following decades. In \"Pacific Employers Insurance Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission\", 306 U.S. 493 (1939), the court held that there was no violation of the Full Faith and Credit Clause where the state of California applied its own law to a case in which a Massachusetts employee of a Massachusetts corporation sued his employer for an injury received in California, seeking relief that would be unavailable under the law of Massachusetts.\n\nThis was reaffirmed in \"Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp.\", 348 U.S. 66 (1954) held that neither the Full Faith and Credit Clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment was implicated when a couple who had bought an insurance policy in Illinois and then moved to Louisiana sued the issuer of the policy under a provision in the Louisiana law that permitted such suits. A decade later, in \"Clay v. Sun Insurance Office, Ltd.\", 377 U.S. 179 (1964), the court explicitly stated that insurance travels with the insured, and that policy holders who move from one state to another can expect to have the laws of their new domicile apply to the interpretation of the insurer's liabilities on the policy.\n\n\"Allstate Insurance Co. v. Hague\", 449 U.S. 302 (1981) determined that the same analysis applies to both the Full Faith and Credit Clause and the Fourteenth Amendment; and that both are satisfied so long as there are sufficient aggregate contacts between the forum and the event giving rise to the cause of action. In the case itself, a Wisconsin resident who was employed over the state line in Minnesota was killed in a motorcycle accident in Wisconsin. The decedent's wife then moved to Minnesota, where she was appointed administratrix of her husband's estate. She sued the insurance company to recover a higher amount permitted under Minnesota law, and the courts agreed that this was permissible, because of the combination decedent's employment contacts with the state, and the insurance company's commercial contacts with the state.\n\nIn \"Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts\", 472 U.S. 797 (1985), plaintiffs residing in all fifty states brought a class-action suit in the state courts of Kansas against an oil company that had failed to pay interest on certain leases. The Kansas court hearing the case simply assumed that the law of Kansas was adequate for all the claims. The Supreme Court disagreed, holding that the Kansas court was required to determine the law of \"each\" state on the substantive questions of law, and apply the laws of each state to the claims brought by plaintiffs from that state. In the related case of \"Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman\", 486 U.S. 717 (1988), the Court refused to apply this rule when Kansas had chosen to apply its own statute of limitations to causes raised by a diverse population of class-action plaintiffs. There the Court held that they had long been viewed as procedural matters. The states could choose to use their own with no concern for violating the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "47596265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47596265", "title": "Crime forum", "text": "Crime forum\n\nA crime forum is a generic term for an internet forum specialising in computer crime and Internet fraud activities such as hacking or spamming.\n\nDuring the early days of the internet public dial up BBSes would serve to put miscreants in touch with one another to share tips of credit card fraud, hacking and other illicit services.\n\nBy the 2000s and the rise of the web, modern internet forum software was preferred, with private invite-only sites being the most long lived. Sites like ShadowCrew, counterfeitlibrary.com and the Russian language carderplanet.com would specialise in various illegal activities before each eventually succumbing to law enforcement action.\n\nBy 2015 notorious forums such as Darkode would be infiltrated and dismantled prior to returning with increased security.\n\nAs of July 2015 there are estimated to be several hundred such forums.\n\n"}
{"id": "45640774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45640774", "title": "December 1989 Brussels summit", "text": "December 1989 Brussels summit\n\nThe December 1989 NATO summit was a summit held for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The summit was held in Brussels, Belgium. This summit was the tenth NATO summit to bring world leaders from NATO together. Manfred Wörner headed the summit, and there were sixteen NATO members when the summit was held.\n\nIn this period, the organization faced conventional questions about whether a new generation of leaders would be as committed to NATO as their predecessors had been. The summit was held during the end of the Cold War, when democratic reforms were being introduced throughout the Eastern Bloc. The fall of the Berlin Wall, and numerous other events were widely discussed during the summit. The summit affirmed its support of democratic reforms in the Eastern Bloc.\n\n"}
{"id": "16357238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16357238", "title": "Denver Newspaper Agency", "text": "Denver Newspaper Agency\n\nThe Denver Newspaper Agency was a publishing company in Denver, Colorado, which published the Denver Post, a daily newspaper owned by the MediaNews Group. From its inception in 2001 until Friday, February 27, 2009, the DNA was responsible for the non-editorial operations of both major newspapers in Denver, the \"Rocky Mountain News\" (owned by the E. W. Scripps Company) and \"The Denver Post\". When the \"Rocky Mountain News\" ceased publication, the Denver Newspaper Agency became the publisher of the \"Post\" only.\n\nAfter a continued rivalry that almost put both papers out of business, the \"News\" and the \"Post\" merged operations in 2001 under a joint operating agreement. as the newly formed Denver Newspaper Agency. DNA was jointly owned by Scripps and MediaNews from 2001 until the discontinuance of the \"Rocky Mountain News\".\n\nWhile the newspapers shared an advertising and circulation department, they still published separately (except during the weekends, when only the \"News\" was published on Saturday and only the \"Post\" on Sunday; both newspapers' editorial pages appeared in both weekend papers) and maintained their rivalry.\n\nThe JOA was dissolved on February 27, 2009, when the \"News\" published its last issue. The following day, the \"Post\" published its first Saturday issue since 2001.\n\nOn December 10, 2009 the Denver Newspaper Agency, was dissolved and folded into \"The Denver Post\" & Media News Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "54209360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54209360", "title": "Donald's Fire Survival Plan", "text": "Donald's Fire Survival Plan\n\nDonald's Fire Survival Plan is an 11-minute Donald Duck educational cartoon released on May 5, 1965. The film was directed by Les Clark. This animated short focuses on fire safety in the home. The original release of this short included a live-action introduction from Walt Disney. It was re-released in August 1984 without the Walt Disney introduction.\n\nThe feature opens with the image of a burning house which pans out to reveal Walt Disney watching the scene on a television screen. Walt goes on to explain how many homes are lost to house fires every day in the United States and how many lives are lost, emphasizing the point that over a third of that number include small children. \n\nWith the cooperation of local and national fire service authorities, the Disney company produced this short to instruct families on proper home fire safety precautions.\n\nWe transition from Walt Disney to a now animated house on fire, which is \"rewound\" to show the house undamaged before zooming in through the window to find Donald Duck sitting in an armchair, reading. A few feet from him are his nephews, Huey, Dewey and Louie drawing up a fire escape plan in crayon. The boys explain to their Uncle that their school teacher had instructed them to design a plan in the event of a fire. They continue to suggest they find two separate exits from every room as well as choose a rendezvous point outside of the house in order to make sure everyone has escaped the building. Donald reacts nonplussed and attempts to brush his nephews away. The boys continue to explain they need collapsible ladders from the second floor. When they rehearse the use of a whistle as an alarm in the event of a fire at night, Donald loses his patience and angrily sends his nephews away. Immediately afterward Donald falls asleep in his armchair.\n\nIn Donald's dream, we meet his sense of precaution, or his Common Sense, depicted as a smaller Donald Duck wearing a fireman's coat and hat. Common Sense argues with Donald about not paying attention to his nephews, who were only trying to prepare him in the event of an emergency. Donald claims he doesn't need to prepare so Common Sense whisks him off to show him how unsafe his home is. \n\nCommon Sense shows Donald a what-if scenario where a fire starts in his living room and what happens when the entire house is asleep. If Donald left his door open as he slept, the smoke mixed with noxious fumes would potentially kill him before the fire even made it up the stairs. If he had closed his door, the barrier would offer him a short window of fifteen to twenty minutes before the smoke and heat would overtake him. Common Sense tells Donald that in most cases, one would generally use natural exits to leave dangerous situations such as a door but during a fire that could be catastrophic. The best solution to exiting his room would be the window, but as his bedroom is on the second floor he would be stuck without a way down.\n\nDonald abruptly wakes from his sporadic nap and takes immediate action to prevent a fire emergency. He takes Huey, Dewey and Louie's crayon plan and sticks it up on the wall. He puts in a collapsible ladder in his room, makes sure the windows throughout the house open easily from the inside and the screens are easily removed, and adds a ladder to his garage for others to use from the outside. He gathers his nephews to tell them what the plan is in the event of an emergency, stressing that they should remain calm and never hide under the bed or in the closet as that can be a fatal mistake. Donald then initiates a fire drill where we see how the nephews escape their room through their window and down the ladder he placed outside. The instructions end with Donald and the boys going to a public fire department call box.\n\nThe video ends with another live-action sequence featuring Walt Disney. He and Common Sense tell the audience that if we can't make a plan, or don't know how, to contact local fire departments and they should be able to devise a plan for us. \n\nThis educational short was revised in 1984, excluding the original Walt Disney introduction. Instead, the same information is relayed via a voice over. There are new short live-action sequences enacted by human versions of Donald Duck as well as his nephews. The scenes involving Common Sense remain the original 1965 animated versions.\n\nAdditions included in the 1984 revision consist of implementing smoke alarms in the home as well as the use of the EDITH system (Exit Drills In The Home).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35110737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35110737", "title": "Electronic process of law in Brazil", "text": "Electronic process of law in Brazil\n\nElectronic process of law is a nowadays phenomenon, related to the use of computer systems in courts and other public departments in their procedural activities.\n\nInformation systems are not the same as applications. Both are sited inside the scope of the generic words meaning of \"software\", Systems are related to structure and paradigm; application to a specific implementation and esthetic and functional elements. Some information systems in Brazil are the , the Slapsoftware, the \"e-CNJ\", the \"e-STF\", the \"PJe\", the Themis, SAJ. and the Mavenflip . The applications are many and subordinated to the systems, for instance, the \"e-proc\".\n\nIn Brazil, since 2006, there is a law dealing about the electronic process, it's the Law nº 11419 of 2006, without which there would not be the possibility of the phenomenon in its strict sense, that is the substitution of paper as primary source of information. This law is also important to kill the polemic about the validity of non-traditional communications means in legal procedures enrolled by former rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "553001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553001", "title": "Enabling act", "text": "Enabling act\n\nAn enabling act (German: Ermächtigungsgesetz) is a piece of legislation by which a legislative body grants an entity which depends on it (for authorization or legitimacy) the power to take certain actions. For example, enabling acts often establish government agencies to carry out specific government policies in a modern nation. The effects of enabling acts from different times and places vary widely.\n\nThe German word for an enabling act is \"Ermächtigungsgesetz\". It usually refers to the enabling act of 23 March 1933, which became a cornerstone of Adolf Hitler's seizure of power.\n\nThe first enabling act is dated from 4 August 1914 just after the outbreak of World War I. With the vote of the Social Democrats, the Reichstag (the parliament) agreed to give the government certain powers to take the necessary economic measures during the war. Such enabling acts were also common in other countries. The Reichstag had to be informed, and had the right to abolish a decree based on the enabling act. This ensured that the government used its rights with care and only in rare cases was a decree abolished. The parliament retained its right to make law.\n\nIn the Weimar Republic (1919–1933), there were several enabling acts: three in 1919, one in 1920 and one in 1921, three in 1923, one in 1926 and one in 1927. The enabling act on 24 February 1923, originally limited until 1 June but extended until 31 October, empowered the cabinet to resist the Occupation of the Ruhr. There was an enabling act on 13 October 1923 and an enabling act on 8 December 1923 that would last until the dissolution of the Reichstag on 13 March 1924.\n\nMost of them had a temporal limit but only vague thematic limits. On the basis of these acts, a vast number of decrees were signed with enormous importance for social and economic life, the judicial system, and taxes. For example, the reform of German currency, the establishment of a single, national railway system and unemployment pay were settled via such decrees (Vollmacht-Verordnungen). The Emminger Reform of 4 January 1924 abolished the jury as trier of fact and replaced it with a mixed system of judges and lay judges in Germany's judiciary which still exists today.\n\nThese enabling acts were unconstitutional, as the Weimar constitution did not provide the possibility that one organ (parliament) would transfer its rights to another one (government). But constitutional experts accepted them because they came into existence with a two-thirds majority, the same majority as for constitutional changes. The government had success in gathering those majorities by threatening to call for presidential emergency dictatorial decrees (usually called \"Notverordnungen\"), otherwise. In March 1924, the Reichstag wanted to discuss an abolition of decrees (which was granted by the enabling act of February that year). President Friedrich Ebert dismissed parliament to avoid discussion and abolishments.\n\nIn later years, since the radicalization of the nationalist party (DNVP) in 1928 and the rise of the Nazi Party from 1930, governments failed to gather two-thirds majorities. Chancellor Heinrich Brüning (1930–1932) worked with presidential decrees which replaced most of ordinary legislature, eventually.\n\nThe enabling acts had set a poor and dangerous example. But for the government, they had the advantage that they appeared less unconstitutional and dictatorial compared to presidential decrees. Parliament could prefer those acts because they were valid only for a limited time and included mostly a kind of cooperation (e.g., via a special house committee).\n\nThe German word \"Ermächtigungsgesetz\" usually refers to the Enabling Act of 1933, officially \"Gesetz zur Behebung der Not von Volk und Reich\" (\"Law to Remedy the Distress of the People and the State\"). It became a cornerstone of Adolf Hitler's seizure of power. Unlike, for example, the Wilhelm Marx enabling act of December 1923, Hitler's Act:\nIn comparison to the situation of the 1920s, Hitler's Nazi Party and his coalition partner the German National People's Party did have a parliamentary majority since the general elections of 3 March 1933. Those elections and then the voting in the Reichstag were carried out in a climate of intimidation and violence carried out by Nazi paramilitary groups. On 23 March, the Communists were already banned and imprisoned, the Social Democrat delegates were the only ones present in the Reichstag to vote against, while the Centre and moderate-right parties voted yes in order to prevent \"worse\".\n\nThe Enabling Act of 1933 was renewed by a purely Nazi Reichstag in 1937 and 1939. In 1941 and 1943 it was renewed by decree, in 1943 without temporal limit. Although it states that it is valid only for the duration of the current Hitler government of 1933, it remained in force even after major changes of ministers. In any case, Hitler called the cabinet together only very rarely after the first months of 1933. The last cabinet meeting happened in 1937. He preferred to govern via decrees and personal orders.\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany, with its 1949 constitution, there have been no enabling acts. The constitution states that it can be changed only by an explicit alteration of the phrasing.\n\nThe Church of England Assembly (Powers) Act 1919 gave a considerable degree of self-government to the Church of England while retaining overall parliamentary supervision. Before its passing, almost all adjustments to the legal structure of the Church of England had involved getting a specific bill through Parliament. It took nine sessions to approve the salary of the Archdeacon of Cornwall, and of the 217 bills introduced into the House of Commons between 1880 and 1913, only 33 passed into law for lack of parliamentary time, among the casualties being the bills to establish new dioceses.\n\nThe Act gave the newly established \"Church Assembly\", predecessor of the General Synod, power to prepare and present to Parliament measures which could either be approved or rejected, but not modified by either House. Before being voted on, the proposals were examined by an Ecclesiastical Committee of both Houses which reported on their effects and implications. Once approved in Parliament, the measure became law on receiving the royal assent.\n\nThe Act continues to apply today to the General Synod of the Church of England which, as a result of the Synodical Government Measure of 1969, replaced the Church Assembly with the aim of achieving full integration of the laity and eliminating the complications caused by the dual control of the Convocations of Canterbury and of York, and the Assembly. All the Assembly's powers passed to the new synod along with many of those of the Convocations.\n\nIn the 1930s, both Sir Stafford Cripps and Clement Attlee advocated an enabling act to allow a future Labour government to pass socialist legislation which would not be amended by normal parliamentary procedures and the House of Lords. According to Cripps, his \"Planning and Enabling Act\" would not be able to be repealed, and the orders made by the government using the act would not be allowed discussion in Parliament. Cripps also suggested measures against the monarchy, but quickly dropped the idea.\n\nIn 1966 Oswald Mosley advocated a government of national unity drawn from \"the professions, from science, from the unions and the managers, from businessmen, the housewives, from the services, from the universities, and even from the best of the politicians\". This coalition would be a \"hard centre\" oriented one which would also get Parliament to pass an Enabling Act in order to stop what Mosley described as \"time-wasting obstructionism of present procedure\". He also claimed that Parliament would always retain the power to dismiss his government by vote of censure if its policies failed or if it attempted to \"override basic British freedoms\".\n\nIn early 2006 the highly controversial yet little-publicised Legislative and Regulatory Reform Bill was introduced to Parliament. This Bill, if enacted as introduced, would have enabled Government ministers to amend or repeal any legislation (including the L&RR Bill itself), subject to vague and highly subjective restraints, by decree and without recourse to Parliament. The Bill was variously described as the \"Abolition of Parliament Bill\" and \"of first-class constitutional significance ... [and would] markedly alter the respective and long standing roles of minister and Parliament in the legislative process\". The Bill is, in essence, an Enabling Act in all but name. After some amendment by the government and Lords, the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Bill received Royal Assent on 8 November 2006. Amendments included removing its ability to modify itself or the Human Rights Act 1998; most of the other modifications were much more subjectively defined.\n\nThe European Union (Withdrawal) Bill of 2017, also known as the Great Repeal Bill, has come under fire from critics because it envisions giving the UK Government unprecedented powers to rewrite any aspect of UK laws imported from EU law when Britain leaves the EU, without consulting Parliament. Such powers, effected by clauses called Henry VIII clauses, have been controversially used in the past, but usually only in respect of very limited areas of law.\n\nIn the United States, an \"enabling act\" is a statute enacted by the United States Congress authorizing the people of a territory to frame a proposed state constitution as a step towards admission to the Union. Each act details the mechanism by which the territory will be admitted as a state following ratification of their constitution and election of state officers.\n\nEnabling acts can contain restrictions, such as the prohibition of polygamy in the Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma acts. Nevada was required to abolish slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime; to guarantee freedom of religious practice to all inhabitants; and to agree that all public lands owned by the federal government at the time of statehood would be retained after admission. The applicant territory then submits its proposed constitution to Congress, which either accepts it or requires changes. For example, in 1866, Congress refused the proposed Nebraska constitution because it limited suffrage to white males. Enabling Acts approved by Congress include:\nAlthough the use of an enabling act is a traditional historic practice, a number of territories have drafted constitutions for submission to Congress absent an enabling act and were subsequently admitted, and the act of Congress admitting Kentucky to the Union was passed before the constitution of Kentucky was drafted.\n\nIn Venezuela, enabling laws allowing the president to rule by decree in selected matters were granted to Rómulo Betancourt (1959), Carlos Andrés Pérez (1974), Jaime Lusinchi (1984), Ramón José Velásquez (1993) and Rafael Caldera (1994). Pérez issued over 3000 decrees under the powers delegated to him.\n\nIn mid-2000 a similar law enabled Hugo Chávez to legislate on issues related to the economy, reorganization of government ministries, and crime for one year. Chávez did not take advantage of this act until shortly before its expiration, when he passed 49 decrees in rapid succession, many of them highly controversial. In 2007, a new enabling act granted President Chávez powers for 18 months, giving the president the ability to rule by decree over certain economic, social, territorial, defense, and scientific matters as well as control over transportation, regulations for popular participation, and rules for governing state institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3364329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364329", "title": "Entick v Carrington", "text": "Entick v Carrington\n\nEntick v Carrington [1765] EWHC KB J98 is a leading case in English law and UK constitutional law establishing the civil liberties of individuals and limiting the scope of executive power. The case has also been influential in other common law jurisdictions and was an important motivation for the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. It is famous for the dictum of Lord Camden: \"If it is law, it will be found in our books. If it not to be found there, it is not law.\"\n\nOn 11 November 1762, the King's Chief Messenger, Nathan Carrington, and three other King's messengers, James Watson, Thomas Ardran, and Robert Blackmore, broke into the home of the Grub Street writer, John Entick (1703?–1773) in the parish of St Dunstan, Stepney \"with force and arms\". Over the course of four hours, they broke open locks and doors and searched all of the rooms before taking away 100 charts and 100 pamphlets, causing £2,000 of damage. The King's messengers were acting on the orders of Lord Halifax, newly appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department, \"to make strict and diligent search for ... the author, or one concerned in the writing of several weekly very seditious papers intitled, \"The Monitor, or British Freeholder\"\".\n\nEntick sued the messengers for trespassing on his land.\n\nThe trial took place in Westminster Hall presided over by Lord Camden, the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. Carrington and his colleagues claimed that they acted on Halifax's warrant, which gave them legal authority to search Entick's home; they therefore could not be liable for the tort. However, Camden held that Halifax had no right under statute or under precedent to issue such a warrant and therefore found in Entick's favour. In the most famous passage Camden stated:\n\nHence Lord Camden ruled, as later became viewed as a general principle, that the state may do nothing but that which is expressly authorised by law, while the individual may do anything but that which is forbidden by law.\n\nThe judgment established the limits of executive power in English law: the state may act lawfully only in a manner prescribed by statute or common law.\n\nIt was also part of the background to the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and was described by the Supreme Court of the United States as \"a 'great judgment', 'one of the landmarks of English liberty', 'one of the permanent monuments of the British Constitution', and a guide to an understanding of what the Framers meant in writing the Fourth Amendment\".\n"}
{"id": "811932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=811932", "title": "Equal Employment Opportunity Commission", "text": "Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\n\nThe U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is a federal agency that administers and enforces civil rights laws against workplace discrimination. The EEOC investigates discrimination complaints based on an individual's race, children, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, and retaliation for reporting, participating in, and/or opposing a discriminatory practice.\n\nOn March 6, 1961, President John F. Kennedy signed Executive Order 10925, which required government contractors to \"take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin.\" It established the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity of which then Vice President Lyndon Johnson was appointed to head. This was the forerunner of the EEOC.\n\nThe EEOC was established on July 2, 1965; its mandate is specified under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, and the ADA Amendments Act of 2008. The EEOC's first complainants were female flight attendants. However, the EEOC at first ignored sex discrimination complaints, and the prohibition against sex discrimination in employment went unenforced for the next few years. One EEOC director called the prohibition \"a fluke... conceived out of wedlock.\"\n\nAll Commission seats and the post of general counsel to the commission are filled by the US President, subject to confirmation by the Senate. Stuart J. Ishimaru, a Commissioner who was confirmed in 2003 and 2006, served as Acting Chair of the Commission from January 20, 2009 until December 22, 2010, when the Senate confirmed Jacqueline Berrien to be the chairwoman. She had been nominated as chairwoman by President Barack Obama in July 2009. In September 2009, Obama chose Chai Feldblum to fill another vacant seat.\n\nOn March 27, 2010, President Obama made recess appointments of three Commission posts: Berrien, Feldblum, and Victoria Lipnic. With the appointments, the Commission had its full five Commissioners: Ishimaru, Berrien, Feldblum, Lipnic, and Constance Barker, who was confirmed by the Senate in 2008 to be a Commissioner. President Obama also made a recess appointment of P. David Lopez to be the EEOC's General Counsel.\n\nOn December 22, 2010, the Senate gave full confirmation to Berrien, Feldblum, Lipnic, and Lopez. In 2014, President Obama renominated Lopez and he was reconfirmed by the Senate the same year.\n\nIn 2011, the Commission included \"sex-stereotyping\" of lesbian, gay, and bisexual individuals, as a form of sex discrimination illegal under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In 2012, the Commission expanded protection provided by Title VII to transgender status and gender identity.\n\nAfter the departure of Ishimaru, the commission returned to its full five commissioners on April 25, 2013, with the Senate confirmation of Jenny Yang.\n\nIn 2015, it concluded that for Title VII, sex discrimination includes discrimation based on sexual orientation.\n\nHowever, the rulings, while persuasive, are not binding on courts and would need to be addressed by the Supreme Court for a final decision. The Commission also mediates and settles thousands of discrimination complaints each year prior to their investigation. The EEOC is also empowered to file civil discrimination suits against employers on behalf of alleged victims and to adjudicate claims of discrimination brought against federal agencies.\n\nIn 1975, when the backlog reached more than 100,000 charges to be investigated, President Gerald Ford's full requested budget of $62 million was approved. A \"Backlog Unit\" was created in Philadelphia in 1978 to resolve the thousands of federal equal employment complaints inherited from the Civil Service Commission. In 1980, Eleanor Holmes Norton began re-characterizing the backlog cases as \"workload\" in her reports to Congress, thus fulfilling her promise to eliminate the backlog.\n\nIn June 2006, civil rights and labor union advocates publicly complained that the effectiveness of the EEOC was being undermined by budget and staff cuts and the outsourcing of complaint screening to a private contractor whose workers were poorly trained. In 2006, a partial budget freeze prevented the agency from filling vacant jobs, and its staff had shrunk by nearly 20 percent from 2001. A Bush administration official stated that the cuts had been made because it was necessary to direct more money to defense and homeland security. By 2008, the EEOC had lost 25 percent of its staff over the previous eight years, including investigators and lawyers who handle the cases. The number of complaints to investigate grew to 95,400 in fiscal 2008, up 26 percent from 2006.\n\nAlthough full-time staffing of the EEOC was cut between 2002 and 2006, Congress increased the commission's budget during that period, as it has almost every year since 1980. The budget was $303 million in fiscal year 2001 to $327 million in fiscal year 2006.\n\nThe outsourcing to Pearson Government Solutions in Kansas cost the agency $4.9 million and was called a \"huge waste of money\" by the president of the EEOC employees' union in 2006.\n\nThe EEOC uses monetary fines as the primary form of deterrence and, as the fines have not adjusted for inflation, the backlog of EEOC cases illustrates a decline in its effectiveness.\n\nThe EEOC requires employers to report various information about their employees, in particular their racial/ethnic categories, to prevent discrimination based on race/ethnicity. The definitions used in the report have been different at different times.\n\nIn 1997, the Office of Management and Budget gave a Federal Register Notice, the \"Revisions to the Standards for the Classification of Federal Data on Race and Ethnicity,\" which defined new racial and ethnic definitions. As of September 30, 2007, the EEO's EEO-1 report must use the new racial and ethnic definitions in establishing grounds for racial or ethnic discrimination. If an employee identifies their ethnicity as \"Hispanic or Latino\" as well as a race, the race is not reported in EEO-1, but it is kept as part of the employment record.\n\nA person's skin color or physical appearance can also be grounds for a case of racial discrimination. Discrimination based on national origin can be grounds for a case on discrimination as well.\n\nEEOC applies an investigative compliance policy when respondents are uncooperative in providing information during an investigation of a charge. If a respondent fails to turn over requested information, field offices are to subpoena the information, file a direct suit on the merits of a charge, or use the legal principle of adverse inference, which assumes the withheld information is against the respondent.\n\nIn 2008, disability-based charges handled by the EEOC rose to a record 19,543, up 10.2 percent from the prior year and the highest level since 1995.\n\nThat may again be showing that because the EEOC has not adjusted many of their initial 1991 fines for inflation, the backlog of EEOC cases illustrates erosion of deterrence.\n\nIn September 2012, Home Depot agreed to pay $100,000 and furnish other relief to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the EEOC for the alleged failure to provide reasonable accommodation for a cashier with cancer at its Towson, Maryland, store and for later purportedly firing her because of her condition.\n\nThe U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) announced that it received 99,412 private sector workplace discrimination charges during fiscal year 2012, down slightly from the previous year. The year-end data also show that retaliation (37,836), race (33,512), and sex discrimination (30,356), which includes allegations of sexual harassment and pregnancy were the most frequently filed charges.\n\nAdditionally, the EEOC achieved a second consecutive year of a significant reduction in the charge inventory, something not seen since fiscal year 2002. Due to a concerted effort, the EEOC reduced the pending inventory of private sector charges by 10 percent from fiscal year 2011, bringing the inventory level to 70,312. This inventory reduction is the second consecutive decrease of almost ten percent in charge inventory. Also this fiscal year, the agency obtained the largest amount of monetary recovery from private sector and state and local government employers through its administrative process — $365.4 million.\nIn fiscal year 2012, the EEOC filed 122 lawsuits, including 86 individual suits, 26 multiple-victim suits, with fewer than 20 victims, and 10 systemic suits. The EEOC's legal staff resolved 254 lawsuits for a total monetary recovery of $44.2 million.\nEEOC also continued its emphasis on eliminating alleged systemic patterns of discrimination in the workplace. In fiscal year 2012, EEOC completed 240 systemic investigations which in part resulted in 46 settlements or conciliation agreements. These settlements, achieved without litigation, secured 36.2 million dollars for the victims of unlawful discrimination. In addition, the agency filed 12 systemic lawsuits in fiscal year 2012.\n\nOverall, the agency secured both monetary and non-monetary benefits for more than 23,446 people through administrative enforcement activities – mediation, settlements, conciliations, and withdrawals with benefits. The number of charges resolved through successful conciliation, the last step in the EEOC administrative process prior to litigation, increased by 18 percent over 2011.\n\nOn May 1, 2013, a Davenport, Iowa jury awarded the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commissission damages totaling $240 million — the largest verdict in the federal agency's history — for disability discrimination and severe abuse.\n\nThe jury agreed with the EEOC that Hill County Farms, doing business as Henry's Turkey Service subjected a group of 32 men with intellectual disabilities to severe abuse and discrimination for a period between 2007 and 2009, after 20 years of similar mistreatment. This victory received international attention and was profiled in the New York Times.\n\nOn June 1, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court held in an 8-1 decision written by Justice Antonin Scalia that an employer may not refuse to hire an applicant if the employer was motivated by avoiding the need to accommodate a religious practice. Such behavior violates the prohibition on religious discrimination contained in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nEEOC General Counsel David Lopez hailed the decision. \"At its root, this case is about defending the quintessentially American principles of religious freedom and tolerance,\" Lopez said. \"This decision is a victory for our increasingly diverse society and we applaud Samantha Elauf's courage and tenacity in pursuing this matter.”\n\nSome employment-law professionals criticized the agency after it issued advice that requiring a high school diploma from job applicants could violate the Americans with Disabilities Act. The advice letter stated that the longtime lowest common denominator of employee screening must be \"job-related for the position in question and consistent with business necessity.\" A Ballard Spahr lawyer suggested, \"There will be less incentive for the general public to obtain a high school diploma if many employers eliminate that requirement for job applicants in their workplace.\"\n\nThe EEOC has been criticized for alleged heavy-handed tactics in their 1980 lawsuit against retailer Sears, Roebuck & Co. Based on a statistical analysis of personnel and promotions, EEOC argued that Sears both was systematically excluding women from high-earning positions in commission sales and was paying female management lower wages than male management. Sears, represented by lawyer Charles Morgan, Jr., counter-argued that the company had encouraged female applicants for sales and management, but women preferred lower-paying positions with more stable daytime working hours, as compared to commission sales, which demanded evening and weekend shifts and featured drastically-varying paychecks, depending on the numbers of sales in a given pay period. In 1986, the court ruled in favor of Sears on all counts and noted that the EEOC had neither produced a single witness who alleged discrimination nor identified any Sears policy that discriminated against women.\n\nIn a 2011 ruling against the EEOC, Judge Loretta A. Preska declared that It relied too heavily on anecdotal claims rather than on hard data, in a lawsuit against Bloomberg, L.P. that alleged discrimination against pregnant employees. In a ruling described in the \"New York Times\" as \"strongly worded,\" Preska wrote, \"the law does not mandate 'work-life balance' and added that while Bloomberg had expected high levels of dedication from employees, the company did not treat women who took pregnancy leave differently from those who took leave for other reasons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40849288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849288", "title": "Ex Parte Maurice", "text": "Ex Parte Maurice\n\nIn Ex Parte Maurice, an important case in South African succession law, the facts were these: A few weeks before his death, the deceased forwarded a draft of his will in his own handwriting to a building society, along with a letter asking them to “knock this document into shape and finalise it in legal jargon.” The question before the court was whether it should exercise its discretion to declare the will valid, even though it had not been signed by any witnesses, etc. The court held that there are three requirements which must be fulfilled before condonation is given:\n\n\nThe court held that the document was merely a draft; there was still work to be done on it, so it was not the final will and testament of the deceased. Accordingly, the court did not declare the will valid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62077", "title": "Federal Radio Commission", "text": "Federal Radio Commission\n\nThe Federal Radio Commission (FRC) was a government body that regulated radio use in the United States from its creation in 1926 until its replacement by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1934. The Commission was created to regulate radio use \"as the public interest, convenience, or necessity\" requires. The Radio Act of 1927 superseded the\nRadio Act of 1912, which had given regulatory powers over\nradio communication to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor. The Radio Act of 1912 did not mention\nbroadcasting and limited all private radio\ncommunications to what is now the AM band.\n\nThe Dill White Bill was proposed and sponsored by Clarence Dill and Wallace H. White Jr. on December 21, 1926. Senator Dill and Representative White had made several attempts at creating regulations prior to the Dill White Bill. However the Dill White Bill was the first bill actually considered by the Senate to start regulating the radio waves. The bill originally proposed that a committee of five members (one member representing each time zone) would be given the power to regulate radio waves and licenses. The bill was officially brought to the Senate floor on January 28, 1927. After a month of debates the bill was finally passed as the Radio Act of 1927 on February 18, 1927 and signed into law by President Calvin Coolidge on February 23, 1927, as , .\n\nPrior to 1927, radio was regulated by the United States Department of Commerce. Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover played a strong role in shaping radio. His powers were limited by federal court decisions, however; in particular, he was not allowed to deny broadcasting licenses to anyone who wanted one. The result was that many people perceived the airwaves to suffer from \"chaos,\" with too many stations trying to be heard on too few frequencies. Others believed the government simply wanted to control content. (Initially only two frequencies were available for broadcasting with one of these being reserved for \"Crop reports and weather forecasts.\") After several failed attempts to rectify this situation, Congress finally passed the Radio Act of 1927, which transferred most of the responsibility for radio to a newly created Federal Radio Commission. (Some technical duties remained the responsibility of the Radio Division of the Department of Commerce.)\n\nThe five-person FRC was given the power to grant and deny licenses, and to assign frequencies and power levels for each licensee. The Commission was not given any official power of censorship, although programming could not include \"obscene, indecent, or profane language.\" In theory, anything else could be aired. In practice, the Commission could take into consideration programming when renewing licenses, and their ability to take away a broadcaster's license enabled them to control content to some degree.\n\nThe Commission also had little power over networks; in fact, the Radio Act of 1927 made almost no mention of the radio networks (notably NBC and, a bit later CBS) that were in the process of dominating radio. The only mention of radio networks was vague: The Commission {the Federal Radio Commission} shall \"Have the authority to make special regulations applicable to stations engaged in chain broadcasting.\"\n\nThe act did not authorize the Federal Radio Commission to make any rules regulating advertising. Advertising was mentioned in the act with only slightly more authority than networking; merely requiring advertisers to identify themselves:\n\n\"Sec. 19.\" All matter broadcast by any radio station for which service, money, or any other valuable consideration is directly paid, or promised to, or charged to, or accepted by, the station so broadcasting, from any person, firm, company, or corporation, shall at the time the same is so broadcast, be announced as paid for or furnished as the case may be, by such person, firm, company, or corporation.\n\nA forerunner of the \"equal-time rule\" was stated in section (18) of the Radio Act of 1927 which ordered stations to give equal opportunities for political candidates. The act did vest in the Federal Radio Commission the power to revoke licenses and give fines for violations of the act.\n\nThe Radio Act of 1927 divided the country into five geographical zones. Each zone was represented by one of the five Commissioners. The 1928 reauthorization of the Radio Act included a provision, called the \"Davis Amendment\" after its sponsor Ewin L. Davis, that required each zone to have equal allocations of licenses, time of operation, station power, and wavelength. This greatly complicated things for the Commissioners; they were required to deny station applications to otherwise qualified candidates simply because the new station would put a particular state or zone over its quota. For example, the northeast had a greater population than the\nsouthwest, but was limited to the same number of stations as more sparsely populated areas. Likewise, many small communities in the southwest could have added a local station without increasing interference (because of their remoteness), but were prevented from doing so by the Davis Amendment, which was repealed in 1936.\n\nAlthough the Commission's primary responsibility was radio, on February 25, 1928, Charles Jenkins Laboratories of Washington, DC, became the first holder of a television license from the Federal Radio Commission.\n\nThere were even a few amateur radio stations authorized to broadcast television. Among them was Mel Dunbrack, W1BHD-TV, who began broadcasting mechanical television in the 1920s, and Truett Kimzey, W5AGO, who began broadcasting television in March 1934.\n\nPresident Calvin Coolidge nominated five men to\nthe commission: Admiral William H. G. Bullard as chairman,\nColonel John F. Dillon, Eugene O. Sykes, Henry A. Bellows, and Orestes H. Caldwell.\n\nThe first three were confirmed by the United States Senate and the first two died soon afterward. Bellows and Caldwell didn't receive salaries, but stayed on anyway. These three did conduct a badly needed reallocation of frequencies. In October, President Calvin Coolidge removed Bellows from the commission; he returned to Minneapolis where he became manager of CBS-affiliate WCCO. In November 1927 Harold Lafount and Sam Pickard joined the commission. In March 1928 Caldwell was barely re-confirmed and Ira E. Robinson became chairman, the commission was finally complete.\n\nThe composition of the FRC from 1927 to 1934 was as follows:\n\nZone 1: Orestes H. Caldwell (New York), Editor of \"Radio Retailing\" magazine); Caldwell resigned February 23, 1929, and was replaced by W. D. L. Starbuck (New York), Patent Attorney, appointed May 1929.\n\nZone 2: W. H. G. Bullard (Pennsylvania); Bullard died November 24, 1927, and was replaced by Ira E. Robinson (West Virginia), State Supreme Court judge; Robinson resigned January 1932 and was replaced by Col. Thad H. Brown (Ohio), lawyer & politico, holding various appointed, and elective offices including Ohio Secretary of State, appointed March 28, 1932. Brown remained on the FRC until he was appointed to the FCC in 1934.\n\nZone 3: Eugene Octave Sykes (Mississippi) remained until he was appointed to the FCC in 1934.\n\nZone 4: Henry Adams Bellows (Minnesota); Bellows was forced to resign October 31, 1927, and later became chairman of the National Association of Broadcasters; Bellows was replaced by Sam Pickard (Kansas); Pickard resigned January 31, 1929, and was replaced by Charles McKinley Saltzman (Iowa), appointed May 1929; Saltzman resigned in irritation in June 1932 and was replaced by James H. Hanley\n\nZone 5: John F. Dillon (California); Dillon died October 8, 1927, and was replaced by Harold A. Lafount (Utah); Lafount stayed on the FRC until its replacement by the FCC, but he was not appointed to the FCC. In the late 1930s Lafount became president of the National Independent Broadcasters.\n\nIn the spring of 1928, the commissioners made drastic reallocations and told 164 stations to justify their existence or be forced to stop broadcasting (these hearings came under the title of General Order 32). Many low-powered independent stations were eliminated, although eighty-one stations did survive, most with reduced power. Educational stations fared particularly poorly. They were usually required to share frequencies with commercial stations and operate during the daytime, which was considered worthless for adult education.\n\nKFKB Milford, Kansas, had been renewed several times by the Federal Radio Commission. It was one of the most popular stations in the nation. KFKB was owned by a surgeon, John R. Brinkley, who, among other things, espoused, over the airwaves, implanting slivers of goat testes in men's testicles for \"sexual rejuvenation.\" The American Medical Association was very upset over a program in which he read listener mail describing symptoms, and then prescribed over the air, describing the medication by number. Listeners had to visit a Brinkley \"kick back\" pharmacy to fill these prescriptions. In 1930 the Federal Radio Commission denied his request for renewal. Brinkley appealed on the grounds of censorship. The U.S. Court of Appeals denied his appeal. The court ruled that the Federal Radio Commission could consider past programming content without it being censorship. This, however, didn't stop the ever-popular Dr. Brinkley, who almost won the governorship of Kansas in 1930 by write-in votes. He simply beamed his programs to the United States over 100,000 watt XER from Villa Acuna, Coah, Mexico. This was twice the power of any broadcast radio station save one experimental 500,000 watt station, WLW Cincinnati. Not to be outdone, Brinkley increased his power to 500,000 watts as well, as XERA, and used a curtain-array antenna to focus his signal northward. In 1941, Brinkley suffered from a series of serious medical problems. During his attempt to recuperate from them, he was charged with mail fraud, but died before the case could be tried.\n\nKGEF Los Angeles, California was the second station to lose its license over what it broadcast. Owned by \"Battling Bob\" Robert P. Shuler (not to be confused with the Robert Schuller of the Crystal Cathedral a generation later), he built his station at Trinity Methodist Church, South, in downtown Los Angeles from a donation from Methodist philanthropist Lizzie Glide, who also funded San Francisco's famous Glide Memorial Church. The station quickly ran afoul of the political interests of a corrupt Los Angeles, who didn't appreciate either Shuler's reactionary politics or his often accurate knowledge of who was being paid off by whom. \"KGEF v. FRC\" followed in the footsteps of \"KFKB v. FRC\" as the second of the one-two punch that made past programming relevant in license renewals, though the primary reason for the rejection of the license renewal was that Shuler owned the station (because Glide wrote the check to him) but the church held the license.\n\nWNYC, the municipal station of New York City, was assigned a part-time, low-power channel. It appealed and lost. Even though the station was government owned, the Federal Radio Commission said that city ownership did not give the station any special standing concerning the \"public interest, convenience, and necessity.\" This was representative of the decline of public broadcasting.\n\nThe Federal Radio Commission issued many licenses for radio services other than radio broadcasting. In 1932, the FRC had licensed about thirty thousand amateur radio stations, about two thousand ship radios, and about one thousand fixed-point land radio stations. The number of licensed radio broadcasting stations (all of which were AM stations) was 625. Public attention in the mass media, however, mainly concerned radio broadcasting. Radio came to be closely associated in common language with radio broadcasting. Many other radio stations, however, were operating at the same time as early radio broadcasting stations.\n\nThe FRC's regulatory enforcement efforts focused on radio broadcasting content. In 1932, out of a total of 424 FRC license investigations, 242 concerned radio broadcasting. Among those 242 radio broadcasting investigations, 156 concerned radio broadcasting content. Analyzing radio broadcasting content is a very different type of technical expertise than evaluating non-content-related radio operations.\n\nEnforcing non-content-related radio regulations occupied relatively more regulatory attention during the time of the FRC than in the early 21st century, in part because radio equipment was more prone to interference (thus requiring more attention to technical issues). The FRC, along with the Radio Division of the United States Department of Commerce, had in 1932 about as many staff members working on enforcement of non-content-related radio rules as the Federal Communications Commission had in 2002. The total number of radio licenses held, however, was about fifty times greater in 2002 than in 1932. The FRC, along with the Department of Commerce, emphasized education and cooperation in getting radio operators to adhere to radio operating rules. Subsequent proliferation of radio uses other than radio broadcasting did not lead to more regulatory resources devoted to enforcing non-content-related radio regulations.\n\nThe FRC carried out provisions of the Radio Act of 1927 to license persons operating amateur and commercial transmitters. It also complied with new treaty obligations to assign U.S. stations ITU prefixes.\n\nWhen broadcasting began to be regulated, and stations had to have a broadcast license, some saw this as an infringement of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution stating that the government shall not stop freedom of speech in the media. This was because prior to broadcast licensing, anyone could start transmitting their views cheaply and efficiently. The FRC cracked down on \"vulgar\" language — for example the profanity-filled rants of William K. Henderson (on KWKH in Shreveport, Louisiana), non-mainstream political views, and \"fringe\" religions.\n\nAlmost from the start, the FRC was accused of being captured by the industry it regulated, radio broadcasters. Historians and contemporary critics who held this position generally pointed to the results of FRC regulation which, in many cases, advantaged large commercial radio broadcasters at the expense of smaller noncommercial broadcasters. Early radio regulation has since become a commonly used example of rent-seeking.\n\nIn 1934 Congress passed the Communications Act, which abolished the Federal Radio Commission and transferred jurisdiction over radio licensing to a new Federal Communications Commission. Title III of the Communications Act contained provisions very similar to the Radio Act of 1927, and the new FCC largely took over the operations and precedents of the FRC (the FCC also acquired jurisdiction over communications common carriers, such as telephone and telegraph companies, from the Interstate Commerce Commission).\n\n"}
{"id": "143163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143163", "title": "Gadsden Purchase", "text": "Gadsden Purchase\n\nThe Gadsden Purchase (known in Mexico as , \"Sale of La Mesilla\") is a region of present-day southern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico that the United States purchased via a treaty that took effect on June 8, 1854. The first draft was signed on December 30, 1853, by James Gadsden, U.S. ambassador to Mexico, and by Antonio López de Santa Anna, president of Mexico. The U.S. Senate voted in favor of ratifying it with amendments on April 25, 1854, and then transmitted it to President Franklin Pierce. Mexico's government and its General Congress or Congress of the Union took final approval action on June 8, 1854, when the treaty took effect. The purchase was the last substantial territorial acquisition in the contiguous United States. The U.S. sought the land as a better route for the construction of the southern transcontinental railway line, and the financially-strapped government of Santa Anna agreed to the sale, which netted Mexico $10 million (equivalent to $ in ). After the devastating loss of Mexican territory to the U.S. in the Mexican–American War (1846–48) and the continued filibustering by U.S. citizens, Santa Anna may have calculated it was better to yield territory by treaty and receive payment rather than have the territory simply seized by the U.S.\n\nThe purchase included lands south of the Gila River and west of the Rio Grande which the U.S. needed to build a transcontinental railroad along a deep southern route, which the Southern Pacific Railroad later completed in 1881–1883. The purchase also aimed to resolve border issues.\n\nAs the railroad age evolved, business-oriented Southerners saw that a railroad linking the South with the Pacific Coast would expand trade opportunities. They thought the topography of the southern portion of the original boundary line was too mountainous to allow a direct route. Projected southern railroad routes tended to veer to the north as they proceeded eastward, which would favor connections with northern railroads and ultimately favor northern seaports. Southerners saw that to avoid the mountains, a route with a southeastern terminus might need to swing south into what was still Mexican territory.\n\nThe administration of President Pierce, strongly influenced by Secretary of War Jefferson Davis, saw an opportunity to acquire land for the railroad, as well as to acquire significant other territory from northern Mexico. In those years, the debate over slavery in the United States entered into many other debates, as the acquisition of new territory opened the question of whether it would be slave or free territory; in this case, the debate over slavery ended progress on construction of a southern transcontinental rail line until the early 1880s, although the preferred land became part of the nation and was used as intended after the Civil War.\n\n In January 1845 Asa Whitney of New York state presented the United States Congress with the first plan to construct a transcontinental railroad. Although Congress took no action on his proposal, a commercial convention of 1845 in Memphis took up the issue. Prominent attendees included John C. Calhoun, Clement C. Clay, Sr., John Bell, William Gwin, and Edmund P. Gaines, but it was James Gadsden of South Carolina who was influential in the convention's recommending a southern route for the proposed railroad. The route was to begin in Texas and end in San Diego or Mazatlán. Southerners hoped that such a route would ensure southern prosperity while opening the \"West to southern influence and settlement\".\n\nSouthern interest in railroads in general, and the Pacific railroad in particular, accelerated after the conclusion of the Mexican–American War in 1848. During that war, topographical officers William H. Emory and James W. Abert had conducted surveys that demonstrated the feasibility of a railroad's originating in El Paso or western Arkansas and ending in San Diego. J. D. B. DeBow, the editor of \"DeBow's Review\", and Gadsden both publicized within the South the benefits of building this railroad.\n\nGadsden had become the president of the South Carolina Canal and Rail Road Company in 1839; about a decade later, the company had laid of track extending west from Charleston, South Carolina, and was 3 million dollars in debt. Gadsden wanted to connect all Southern railroads into one sectional network. He was concerned that the increasing railroad construction in the North was shifting trade in lumber, farm and manufacturing goods from the traditional north–south route based on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers to an east–west axis that would bypass the South. He also saw Charleston, his home town, losing its prominence as a seaport. In addition, many Southern business interests feared that a northern transcontinental route would exclude the South from trade with the Orient. Other Southerners argued for diversification from a plantation economy to keep the South independent of northern bankers.\n\nIn October 1849 the southern interests held a convention to discuss railroads in Memphis, in response to a convention in St. Louis earlier that fall which discussed a northern route. The Memphis convention overwhelmingly advocated the construction of a route beginning there, to connect with an El Paso, Texas to San Diego, California line. Disagreement arose only over the issue of financing. The convention president, Matthew Fontaine Maury of Virginia, preferred strict private financing, whereas John Bell and others thought that federal land grants to railroad developers would be necessary.\n\nGadsden supported nullification in 1831. When California was admitted to the Union as a free state in 1850, he advocated secession by South Carolina. Gadsden considered slavery \"a social blessing\" and abolitionists \"the greatest curse of the nation\".\n\nWhen the secession proposal failed, Gadsden worked with his cousin Isaac Edward Holmes, a lawyer in San Francisco since 1851, and California state senator Thomas Jefferson Green, in an attempt to divide California into northern and southern portions and proposed that the southern part allow slavery. Gadsden planned to establish a slave-holding colony there based on rice, cotton, and sugar, and wanted to use slave labor to build a railroad and highway that originated in either San Antonio or the Red River valley. The railway or highway would transport people to the California gold fields. Toward this end, on December 31, 1851, Gadsden asked Green to secure from the California state legislature a large land grant located between the 34th and 36th parallels, along the proposed dividing line for the two California states.\n\nA few months later, Gadsden and 1,200 potential settlers from South Carolina and Florida submitted a petition to the California legislature for permanent citizenship and permission to establish a rural district that would be farmed by \"not less than Two Thousand of their African Domestics\". The petition stimulated some debate, but it finally died in committee.\n\nThe Compromise of 1850, which created the Utah Territory and the New Mexico Territory, would facilitate a southern route to the West Coast since all territory for the railroad was now organized and would allow for federal land grants as a financing measure. Competing northern or central routes championed, respectively, by U.S. Senators Stephen Douglas of Illinois and Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri, would still need to go through unorganized territories. Millard Fillmore established a precedent for using federal land grants when he signed a bill promoted by Douglas that allowed a south to north, Mobile to Chicago railroad to be financed by \"federal land grants for the specific purpose of railroad construction\". To satisfy Southern opposition to the general principle of federally supported internal improvements, the land grants would first be transferred to the appropriate state or territorial government, which would oversee the final transfer to private developers.\n\nBy 1850, however, the majority of the South was not interested in exploiting its advantages in developing a transcontinental railroad or railroads in general. Businessmen like Gadsden, who advocated economic diversification, were in the minority. The Southern economy was based on cotton exports, and then-current transportation networks met the plantation system's needs. There was little home market for an intra-South trade. In the short term, the best use for capital was to invest it in more slaves and land rather than in taxing it to support canals, railroads, roads, or in dredging rivers. Historian Jere W. Roberson wrote:\n\nThe Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (1848) ended the Mexican–American War, but left issues affecting both sides that still needed to be resolved: possession of the Mesilla Valley, protection for Mexico from Indian raids, and the right of transit in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.\n\nThe treaty provided for a joint commission, made up of a surveyor and commissioner from each country, to determine the final boundary between the United States and Mexico. The treaty specified that the Rio Grande Boundary would veer west eight miles (13 km) north of El Paso. The treaty was based on the attached 1847 copy of a twenty-five-year-old map. Surveys revealed that El Paso was further south and further west than the map showed. Mexico favored the map, but the United States put faith in the results of the survey. The disputed territory involved a few thousand square miles and about 3,000 residents; more significantly, it included the Mesilla Valley. Bordering the Rio Grande, the valley consisted of flat desert land measuring about , north to south, by , east to west. This valley was essential for the construction of a transcontinental railroad using a southern route.\n\nJohn Bartlett of Rhode Island, the United States negotiator, agreed to allow Mexico to retain the Mesilla Valley (setting the boundary at 32° 22′ N, north of the American claim 31° 52′ and at the easternmost part, also north of the Mexican-claimed boundary at 32° 15′) in exchange for a boundary that did not turn north until 110° W in order to include the Santa Rita Mountains, which were believed to have rich copper deposits, and some silver and gold which had not yet been mined. Southerners opposed this alternative because of its implication for the railroad, but President Fillmore supported it. Southerners in Congress prevented any action on the approval of this separate border treaty and eliminated further funding to survey the disputed borderland. Robert B. Campbell, a pro-railroad politician from Alabama, later replaced Bartlett. Mexico asserted that the commissioners' determinations were valid and prepared to send in troops to enforce the unratified agreement.\n\nArticle XI of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo contained a guarantee that the United States would protect Mexicans by preventing cross-border raids by local Comanche and Apache tribes. At the time the treaty was ratified, Secretary of State James Buchanan had believed that the United States had both the commitment and resources to enforce this promise. Historian Richard Kluger, however, described the difficulties of the task:\n\nIn the five years after approval of the Treaty, the United States spent $12 million (equivalent to $ in ) in this area, and General-in-Chief Winfield Scott estimated that five times that amount would be necessary to police the border. Mexican officials, frustrated with the failure of the United States to effectively enforce its guarantee, demanded reparations for the losses inflicted on Mexican citizens by the raids. The United States argued that the Treaty did not require any compensation nor did it require any greater effort to protect Mexicans than was expended in protecting its own citizens. During the Fillmore administration, Mexico claimed damages of $40 million (equivalent to $ in ) but offered to allow the U.S. to buy-out Article XI for $25 million (equivalent to $ in ) while President Fillmore proposed a settlement that was $10 million less (equivalent to $ in ).\n\nDuring negotiations of the treaty, Americans had failed to secure the right of transit across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in southern Mexico. The idea of building a railroad here had been considered for a long time, connecting the Gulf of Mexico with the Pacific Ocean. In 1842 Mexican President Antonio López de Santa Anna sold the rights to build a railroad or canal across the isthmus. The deal included land grants wide along the right-of-way for future colonization and development. In 1847 a British bank bought the rights, raising U.S. fears of British colonization in the hemisphere, in violation of the precepts of the Monroe Doctrine. United States interest in the right-of-way increased in 1848 after the gold strikes in the Sierra Nevada, which led to the California Gold Rush.\nThe Memphis commercial convention of 1849 recommended that the United States pursue the trans-isthmus route, since it appeared unlikely that a transcontinental railroad would be built anytime soon. Interests in Louisiana were especially adamant about this option, as they believed that any transcontinental railroad would divert commercial traffic away from the Mississippi and New Orleans, and they at least wanted to secure a southern route. Also showing interest was Peter A. Hargous of New York who ran an import-export business between New York and Vera Cruz. Hargous purchased the rights to the route for $25,000 (equivalent to $ in ), but realized that the grant had little value unless it was supported by the Mexican and American governments.\n\nIn Mexico, topographical officer George W. Hughes reported to Secretary of State John M. Clayton that a railroad across the isthmus was a \"feasible and practical\" idea. Clayton then instructed Robert P. Letcher, the minister to Mexico, to negotiate a treaty to protect Hargous' rights. The United States' proposal gave Mexicans a 20% discount on shipping, guaranteed Mexican rights in the zone, allowed the United States to send in military if necessary, and gave the United States most-favored-nation status for Mexican cargo fees. This treaty, however, was never finalized.\n\nThe Clayton–Bulwer Treaty between the United States and Great Britain, which guaranteed the neutrality of any such canal, was finalized in April 1850. Mexican negotiators refused the treaty because it would eliminate Mexico's ability to play the US and Britain against each other. They eliminated the right of the United States to unilaterally intervene militarily. The United States Senate approved the treaty in early 1851, but the Mexican Congress refused to accept the treaty.\n\nIn the meantime, Hargous proceeded as if the treaty would be approved eventually. Judah P. Benjamin and a committee of New Orleans businessmen joined with Hargous and secured a charter from the Louisiana legislature to create the Tehuantepec Railroad Company. The new company sold stock and sent survey teams to Mexico. Hargous started to acquire land even after the Mexican legislature rejected the treaty, a move that led to the Mexicans canceling Hargous' contract to use the right of way. Hargous put his losses at $5 million (equivalent to $ in ) and asked the United States government to intervene. President Fillmore refused to do so.\n\nMexico sold the canal franchise, without the land grants, to A. G. Sloo and Associates in New York for $600,000 (equivalent to $ in ). In March 1853 Sloo contracted with a British company to build a railroad and sought an exclusive contract from the new Franklin Pierce Administration to deliver mail from New York to San Francisco. However, Sloo soon defaulted on bank loans and the contract was sold back to Hargous.\n\nThe Pierce administration, which took office in March 1853, had a strong pro-southern, pro-expansion mindset. It sent Louisiana Senator Pierre Soulé to Spain to negotiate the acquisition of Cuba. Pierce appointed expansionists John Y. Mason of Virginia and Solon Borland of Arkansas as ministers, respectively, to France and Nicaragua. Pierce's Secretary of War, Jefferson Davis, was already on record as favoring a southern route for a transcontinental railroad, so southern rail enthusiasts had every reason to be encouraged.\n\nThe South as a whole, however, remained divided. In January 1853 Senator Thomas Jefferson Rusk of Texas introduced a bill to create two railroads, one with a northern route and one with a southern route starting below Memphis on the Mississippi River. Under the Rusk legislation, the President would be authorized to select the specific termini and routes as well as the contractors who would build the railroads. Some southerners, however, worried that northern and central interests would leap ahead in construction and opposed any direct aid to private developers on constitutional grounds. Other southerners preferred the isthmian proposals. An amendment was added to the Rusk bill to prohibit direct aid, but southerners still split their vote in Congress and the amendment failed.\n\nThis rejection led to legislative demands, sponsored by William Gwin of California and Salmon P. Chase of Ohio and supported by the railroad interests, for new surveys for possible routes. Gwin expected that a southern route would be approved—both Davis and Robert J. Walker, former secretary of the treasury, supported it. Both were stockholders in a Vicksburg-based railroad that planned to build a link to Texas to join up with the southern route. Davis argued that the southern route would have an important military application in the likely event of future troubles with Mexico.\n\nOn March 21, 1853, a treaty initiated in the Fillmore administration, that would provide joint Mexican and United States protection for the Sloo grant was signed in Mexico. At the same time that this treaty was received in Washington, Pierce learned that New Mexico Territorial Governor William C. Lane had issued a proclamation claiming the Mesilla Valley as part of New Mexico, leading to protests from Mexico. Pierce was also aware of efforts by France, through its consul in San Francisco, to acquire the Mexican state of Sonora.\n\nPierce recalled Lane in May and replaced him with David Meriwether of Kentucky. Meriwether was given orders to stay out of the Mesilla Valley until negotiations with Mexico could be completed. With the encouragement of Davis, Pierce also appointed James Gadsden as ambassador to Mexico, with specific instructions to negotiate with Mexico over the acquisition of additional territory. Secretary of State William L. Marcy gave Gadsden clear instructions: he was to secure the Mesilla Valley for the purposes of building a railroad through it, convince Mexico that the US had done its best regarding the Indian raids, and elicit Mexican cooperation in efforts by US citizens to build a canal or railroad across the isthmus of Tehuantepec. Supporting the Sloo interests was not part of the instructions. Gadsden met with Santa Anna on September 25, 1853 in Mexico City to discuss the terms of the treaty.\n\nThe Mexican government was going through political and financial turmoil. In the process, Santa Anna had been returned to power about the same time that Pierce was inaugurated. Santa Anna was willing to deal with the United States because he needed money to rebuild the Mexican Army for defense against the United States. He initially rejected the extension of the border further south to the Sierra Madre Mountains. He initially insisted on reparations for the damages caused by American Indian raids, but agreed to let an international tribunal resolve this. Gadsden realized that Santa Anna needed money and passed this information along to Secretary Marcy.\n\nMarcy and Pierce responded with new instructions. Gadsden was authorized to purchase any of six parcels of land with a price fixed for each. The price would include the settlement of all Indian damages and relieve the United States from any further obligation to protect Mexicans. $50 million (equivalent to $ in ) would have bought the Baja California Peninsula and a large portion of its northwestern Mexican states while $15 million (equivalent to $ in ) was to buy the of desert necessary for the railroad plans.\n\n\"Gadsden's antagonistic manner\" alienated Santa Anna. Gadsden had advised Santa Anna that \"the spirit of the age\" would soon lead the northern states to secede so he might as well sell them now. Mexico balked at any large-scale sale of territory. The Mexican President felt threatened by William Walker's attempt to capture Baja California with 50 troops and annex Sonora. Gadsden disavowed any government backing of Walker, who was expelled by the U.S. and placed on trial as a criminal. Santa Anna worried that the US would allow further aggression against Mexican territory. Santa Anna needed to get as much money for as little territory as possible. When Great Britain rejected Mexican requests to assist in the negotiations, Santa Anna opted for the $15 million package (equivalent to $ in ).\n\nSanta Anna signed the treaty on December 30, 1853, along with James Gadsden. Then the treaty was presented to the U.S. Senate for confirmation.\n\nPierce and his cabinet began debating the treaty in January 1854. Although disappointed in the amount of territory secured and some of the terms, they submitted it to the Senate on February 10. Gadsden, however, suggested that northern senators would block the treaty in order to deny the South a railroad.\n\nAlthough signed by Pierce and Santa Anna, the treaty needed a 2/3 vote in favor of ratification in the US Senate, where it met strong opposition. Antislavery senators opposed further acquisition of slave territory. Lobbying by speculators gave the treaty a bad reputation. Some senators objected to furnishing Santa Anna financial assistance.\n\nThe treaty reached the Senate as that body focused on the debate over the Kansas–Nebraska Act. On April 17, after much debate, the Senate voted 27 to 18 in favor of the treaty, falling three votes short of the necessary two-thirds required for treaty approval. After this defeat, Secretary Davis and southern senators pressed Pierce to add more provisions to the treaty including:\n\nThe land area included in the treaty is shown in the map at the head of the article, and in the national map in this section.\n\nThis version of the treaty successfully passed the US Senate April 25, 1854, by a vote of 33 to 12. The reduction in territory was an accommodation of northern senators who opposed the acquisition of additional slave territory. In the final vote, northerners split 12 to 12. Gadsden took the revised treaty back to Santa Anna, who accepted the changes. The treaty went into effect June 30, 1854.\n\nWhile the land was available for construction of a southern railroad, the issue had become too strongly associated with the sectional debate over slavery to receive federal funding. Roberson wrote:\n\nThe effect was such that railroad development, which accelerated in the North, stagnated in the South.\n\nAs originally envisioned, the purchase would have encompassed a much larger region, extending far enough south to include most of the current Mexican states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Coahuila, Chihuahua, Sonora, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas. The Mexican people opposed such boundaries, as did anti-slavery US Senators, who saw the purchase as acquisition of more slave territory. Even the sale of a relatively small strip of land angered the Mexican people, who saw Santa Anna's actions as a betrayal of their country. They watched in dismay as he squandered the funds generated by the Purchase. Contemporary Mexican historians continue to view the deal negatively and believe that it has defined the American–Mexican relationship in a deleterious way.\n\nThe purchased lands were initially appended to the existing New Mexico Territory. To help control the new land, the US Army established Fort Buchanan on Sonoita Creek in present-day southern Arizona on November 17, 1856. The difficulty of governing the new areas from the territorial capital at Santa Fe led to efforts as early as 1856 to organize a new territory out of the southern portion. Many of the early settlers in the region were, however, pro-slavery and sympathetic to the South, resulting in an impasse in Congress as to how best to reorganize the territory.\n\nThe shifting of the course of the Rio Grande would cause a later dispute over the boundary between Purchase lands and those of the state of Texas, known as the Country Club Dispute. Pursuant to the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the Gadsden Treaty and subsequent treaties, the International Boundary and Water Commission which was established in 1889 to maintain the border, and pursuant to still later treaties its duties expanded to allocation of river waters between the two nations, and providing for flood control and water sanitation. Once viewed as a model of international cooperation, in recent decades the IBWC has been heavily criticized as an institutional anachronism, by-passed by modern social, environmental and political issues.\n\nThe residents of the area gained full US citizenship and slowly assimilated into American life over the next half-century. The principal threat to the peace and security of settlers and travelers in the area were raids by Apache Indians. The US Army took control of the purchase lands in 1854 but not until 1856 were troops stationed in the troubled region. In June 1857 it established Fort Buchanan south of the Gila at the head of the Sonoita Creek Valley. The fort protected the area until it was evacuated and destroyed in July 1861. The new stability brought miners and ranchers. By the late 1850s mining camps and military posts had not only transformed the Arizona countryside; they had also generated new trade linkages to the state of Sonora, Mexico. Magdalena, Sonora, became a supply center for Tubac, wheat from nearby Cucurpe fed the troops at Fort Buchanan, and the town of Santa Cruz sustained the Mowry mines, just miles to the north.\n\nIn 1861, during the American Civil War, the Confederate States of America formed the Confederate Territory of Arizona, including in the new territory mainly areas acquired by the Gadsden Purchase. In 1863, using a north-to-south dividing line, the Union created its own Arizona Territory out of the western half of the New Mexico Territory. The new American Arizona Territory also included most of the lands acquired in the Gadsden Purchase. This territory would be admitted into the Union as the State of Arizona on February 14, 1912, the last area of the Lower 48 States to receive statehood.\n\nAfter the Gadsden Purchase, southern Arizona's social elite, including the Estevan Ochoa, Mariano Samaniego, and Leopoldo Carillo families, remained primarily Mexican American until the coming of the railroad in the 1880s. When the Sonora Exploring and Mining Company opened silver mines in southern Arizona, it sought to employ educated, middle-class Americans who shared a work ethic and leadership abilities to operate the mines. A biographical analysis of some 200 of its employees, classed as capitalists, managers, laborers, and general service personnel, reveals that the resulting work force included Europeans, Americans, Mexicans, and Indians. This mixture failed to stabilize the remote area, which lacked formal social, political, and economic organization in the years from the Gadsden Purchase to the Civil War.\n\nFrom the late 1840s into the 1870s, Texas stockmen drove their beef cattle through southern Arizona on the Texas–California trail. Texans were impressed with the grazing possibilities offered by the Gadsden Purchase country of Arizona. In the last third of the century, they moved their herds into Arizona and established the range cattle industry there. The Texans contributed their proven range methods to the new grass country of Arizona, but also brought their problems as well. Texas rustlers brought lawlessness, poor management resulted in overstocking, and carelessness introduced destructive diseases. But these difficulties did force laws and associations in Arizona to curb and resolve them. The Anglo-American cattleman frontier in Arizona was an extension of the Texas experience.\n\nWhen the Arizona Territory was formed in 1863 from the southern portion of the New Mexico Territory, Pima County and later Cochise County—created from the easternmost portion of Pima County in January 1881—were subject to ongoing border-related conflicts. The area was characterized by rapidly growing boom towns, ongoing Apache raids, smuggling and cattle rustling across the United States-Mexico border, growing ranching operations, and the expansion of new technologies in mining, railroading, and telecommunications.\n\nIn the 1860s conflict between the Apaches and the Americans was at its height. Until 1886, almost constant warfare existed in the region adjacent to the Mexican border. The illegal cattle operations kept beef prices in the border region lower and provided cheap stock that helped small ranchers get by. Many early Tombstone residents looked the other way when it was \"only Mexicans\" being robbed.\n\nOutlaws derisively called \"The Cowboys\" frequently robbed stagecoaches and brazenly stole cattle in broad daylight, scaring off the legitimate cowboys watching the herds. Bandits used the border between the United States and Mexico to raid across in one direction and take sanctuary in the other. In December 1878, and again the next year, Mexican authorities complained about the \"Cowboy\" outlaws who stole Mexican beef and resold it in Arizona. The \"Arizona Citizen\" reported that both U.S. and Mexican bandits were stealing horses from the Santa Cruz Valley and selling them in Sonora. Arizona Territorial Governor Frémont investigated the Mexican government's allegations and accused them in turn of allowing outlaws to use Sonora as a base of operations for raiding into Arizona.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s there was considerable tension in the region—between the rural residents, who were for the most part Democrats from the agricultural South, and town residents and business owners, who were largely Republicans from the industrial Northeast and Midwest. The tension culminated in what has been called the Cochise County feud, and the Earp-Clanton feud, which ended with the historic Gunfight at the O.K. Corral and Wyatt Earp's Vendetta Ride.\n\nIn 1846, James Gadsden, then president of the South Carolina Railroad, proposed building a transcontinental railroad linking the Atlantic at Charleston with the Pacific at San Diego. Federal and private surveys by Lt. John G. Parke and Andrew B Gray proved the feasibility of the southern transcontinental route, but sectional strife and the Civil War delayed construction of the proposed railroad. The Southern Pacific Railroad from Los Angeles reached Yuma, Arizona, in 1877, Tucson in March 1880, Deming, New Mexico in December 1880, and El Paso in May 1881, the first railroad across the Gadsden Purchase.\n\nAt the same time, 1879-1881, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad was building across New Mexico and met the Southern Pacific at Deming, New Mexico March 7, 1881, completing the second transcontinental railroad (the first, the central transcontinental, was completed May 10, 1869 at Promontory Summit, Utah). Acquiring trackage rights over the SP, from Deming to Benson, the Santa Fe then built a line southwest to Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, completed October 1882, as its first outlet to the Pacific. This line was later sold to the Southern Pacific. The Southern Pacific continued building east from El Paso, completing a junction with the Texas & Pacific in December 1881, and finally in 1883, its own southern transcontinental, the Sunset Route, California to New Orleans, Atlantic waters to the Pacific. These railroads caused an early 1880s mining boom in such locales as Tombstone, Arizona, Bisbee, Arizona, and Santa Rita, New Mexico, the latter two world class copper producers. From Bisbee, a third sub-transcontinental was built across the Gadsden Purchase, the El Paso and Southwestern Railroad, to El Paso by 1905, then to a link with the Rock Island line to form the Golden State Route. The EP&SW was sold to the Southern Pacific in the early 1920s.\n\nThe portion of the Southern Pacific in Arizona was originally largely in the Gadsden Purchase but the western part was later rerouted north of the Gila River to serve the city of Phoenix (as part of the agreement in purchasing the EP&SW). The portion in New Mexico runs largely through the territory that had been disputed between Mexico and the United States after the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo had gone into effect, and before the time of the Gadsden Purchase. The Santa Fe Railroad Company also completed a railroad across Northern Arizona, via Holbrook, Arizona, Winslow, Flagstaff and Kingman in August 1883. These two transcontinental railroads, the Southern Pacific (now part of the Union Pacific Railroad) and the Santa Fe (now part of the BNSF), are among the busiest rail lines in the United States.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, a number of short-lines usually associated with mining booms were built in the Gadsden Purchase to Ajo, Silverbell, Twin Buttes, Courtland, Gleeson, Arizona, Shakespeare, New Mexico, and other mine sites. Most of these railroads have been abandoned.\n\nThe remainder of the Gila Valley pre-Purchase border area was traversed by the Arizona Eastern Railway by 1899 and the Copper Basin Railway by 1904. Excluded was a section in the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation, from today's San Carlos Lake to Winkelman at the mouth of the San Pedro River, including the Needle's Eye Wilderness. The section of US Highway 60 about between Superior and Miami via Top-of-the-World (this road segment is east of Phoenix, in the Tonto National Forest passing through a mountainous region), takes an alternate route (17.4 road miles) between the Magma Arizona Railroad and the Arizona Eastern Railway railheads on each side of this gap. This highway is well north of the Gadsden Purchase. Given the elevations of those three places, at least a 3% grade would have been required for rails built here, rather than the final alignment; railroads prefer 1% or less grade for better operation. This rugged terrain above the Gila River confirms the engineering, technical wisdom of acquiring the Gadsden Purchase for a southern transcontinental railroad. To William H. Emory of the U. S. Army Corps of Topographical Engineers who surveyed the region in the 1840s-1850s, it was a good route \"to the Pacific.\"\n\nSunland Park (population 14,267 in 2010), a suburb of El Paso, Texas, in Doña Ana County, New Mexico, is the largest community of New Mexico in the Gadsden Purchase.\n\nLordsburg, New Mexico (population 2,797 in 2010), the county seat of Hidalgo County, was in the disputed area before the Gadsden Purchase, and Deming, New Mexico, the county seat of Luna County, was north of both the Mexican and American land claims before the Gadsden Purchase, though the proposed Bartlett–Conde compromise of 1851 would have left Deming in Mexico, or stated in positive terms, the negotiations for the Gadsden Purchase resolved the border disputes with Mexico, as well as transferred this land to the U.S.\n\nThe boundaries of most counties in Arizona do not follow the northern boundary of the Gadsden Purchase, but six counties in Arizona do have most of their populations within the land of the Gadsden Purchase. Four of these also contain areas north of the Gadsden Purchase, but these areas do have low population densities, with the exception of northeastern Pinal County, Arizona, including the towns of Apache Junction and Florence. Maricopa County also extends south into the area of the Gadsden Purchase, but this area is also thinly populated. Tucson is the largest city in the Gadsden Purchase.\nThe northmost point of the Gadsden Purchase, and also along the American–Mexican border during the period of 1848–53, is at approximately in the town of Goodyear, Arizona, about southwest of Phoenix.\n\nEconomist David R. Barker estimated in 2009 that the Gadsden Purchase was likely not profitable for the United States federal government. He admits that \"Current historical accounts take it for granted that the purchase has been a boon to the United States\" but he feels that the region produces little tax revenue; most mines are on Indian reservations which receive all royalties. The federal government spent much money during the 19th century to defend the territory from Apaches that would not have been necessary without the purchase. The value of the southern transcontinental rail line is not mentioned in this brief analysis.\n\nAnother view of the value of the Gadsden Purchase and the resolution of the border between the U.S. and Mexico west from El Paso, Texas was given by geologist Harold L. James in 1969: \"Although the boundary controversy did not teach any lessons or impart any wisdom, it did lead to the purchase of an extremely valuable strip of territory that has more than paid for itself in subsequent mineral and agricultural resources. Despite the comedy of errors, chaos, and misunderstanding, the Southwest must therefore be grateful.\"\n\nThe consequences of the Gadsden Purchase for Mexicans and Native Americans living in the region form the background of the story in the film \"Conquest of Cochise\" (Columbia, 1953).\n\nThe United States Post Office Department issued a postage stamp commemorating 100 years since the Gadsden Purchase, on December 30, 1953.\n\nIn 2012, the Gadsden Purchase was featured in a segment on \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12459375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12459375", "title": "GeoTLD", "text": "GeoTLD\n\nA GeoTLD (geographic TLD) is a top-level domain in the Domain Name System of the Internet using the name of or invoking an association with a geographical, geopolitical, ethnic, linguistic or cultural community.\n\n, several examples of geographic TLDs exist: codice_1, enabling London businesses, organizations, and individuals to establish an online naming presence, codice_2 (for Asia), codice_3 (for Rio de Janeiro city), codice_4 (for Québec province), codice_5 which is a sponsored top-level domain intended to be used to highlight the Catalan language and culture.\n.eu is a country code top-level domain, since \"EU\" is a reserved country code for the European Union in ISO 3166-1.\n\nThe geographic TLDs have formed in 2017 an interest group that is member of the Registry Stakeholder Group (RySG) at ICANN. The GeoTLD Group AISBL is an international non-for-profit membership association resident in Belgium. It represents and promotes the interests of organizations operating a generic top-level domain which denominates a geographic name, geographic identifier or geographic origin (so-called GeoTLD) with the purpose of serving the respective place, language and culture on the internet.\nExamples of proposed top-level domains in this category are:\n\nOn June 13, 2012 ICANN has revealed nearly 2,000 applications for new top-level domains, which are expected to go live throughout 2014 after thorough examination.\n\nMany of these are geographic, including:\n\nAn internationalized country code is similar to a GeoTLD, with two differences: it is a domain used exclusively for a sovereign state. The other difference is that an internationalized country code is considered a ccTLD and not a GeoTLD. More free geographic ccTLD have been applied for and will be active in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41650491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41650491", "title": "Google Free Zone", "text": "Google Free Zone\n\nGoogle Free Zone was a global initiative undertaken by the Internet company Google in collaboration with mobile phone-based Internet providers, whereby the providers waive data (bandwidth) charges (also known as \"zero-rate\") for accessing select Google products such as Google Search, Gmail, and Google+. In order to use this service, users are required to have a Google account and a phone that has access to an internet connection.\n\n\nA number of Internet commentators viewed Google Free Zone as both inspired by and a potential competitor to Facebook Zero.\n\nThe \"Subsecretaria de Telecomunicaciones\" of Chile ruled that \"Zero-rating\" services like Wikipedia Zero, Facebook Zero, and Google Free Zone, that subsidize mobile data usage, violate net neutrality laws and had to end the practice by June 1, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "6950740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6950740", "title": "Hague Convention on Foreign Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters", "text": "Hague Convention on Foreign Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters\n\nThe Hague Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters is a multilateral treaty governing the enforcement of judgments entered by one nation's legal authorities in other signatory nations. It is one of a number of conventions in the area of Private International Law of the Hague Conference on Private International Law in 1971. \n\nAlbania, Cyprus, Kuwait, Portugal and the Netherlands (Territory in Europe and Aruba) are parties to the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "1662171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662171", "title": "Hague Securities Convention", "text": "Hague Securities Convention\n\nThe Convention on the law applicable to certain rights in respect of securities held with an intermediary, or Hague Securities Convention is an international multilateral treaty intended to remove, globally, legal uncertainties for cross-border securities transactions. The Convention was drafted under the auspices of the Hague Conference on Private International Law, which as resulted in several Conflict of Laws conventions.\n\nSwitzerland, Mauritius and the United States have ratified the convention, which entered into force on 1 April 2017. The European Commission recommended in July 2006 that its member states sign the Convention, but this recommendation was later withdrawn.\n\nThe Convention is largely a response to the move in recent times in most nations from a purely direct holding system to a mixed direct and indirect holding system. The reforms, though largely beneficial, have created an alarming level of uncertainty as to the question of \"what law applies\" in cross-border securities transactions. The development of a global agreed-upon method of determining the legal regime governing any such transactions lagged behind market practice, leaving financial markets with significant legal risk.\n\nThe problem stems from the fact that intermediaries exist between an investor and the company which issues a particular security.\n\nHistorically, many jurisdictions attempted to apply the traditional, but now arguably outdated, \"lex rei sitae\" test to securities held with intermediaries, by \"looking through\" the tiers of intermediaries to the laws of one or more of: the jurisdiction of incorporation of the issuer, the location of the issuer's register, or the location of the actual security certificate (the so-called \"look-through approach\").\n\nThe Place of the Relevant Intermediary (or \"PRIMA\") approach was adopted in Europe under the European Union's Settlement Finality Directive of 1998. That directive has been adopted by a number of states. In 2002, the European Community also passed the European Union's Collateral Directive.\n\nSwitzerland, which is not part of the European Union and therefore does not have to wait for agreement among all member states, signed the Convention.\n\nStrong support for Japan joining the Convention has been expressed in Japanese legal circles.\n\nThe first Special Commission of the Convention met at The Hague in January 2001 to consider the appropriate conflict of laws rule. At this first meeting, initially the concept embraced by the PRIMA approach was adopted. The next two years of negotiations and meetings were spent determining an appropriate formulation of the language of the convention, and which PRIMA concepts to accept and which to reject. At the end of the negotiations, the idea that the place of the relevant intermediary was the place to focus on was unanimously rejected in lieu of the approach described below.\n\nThe fundamental issue during negotiations was to determine a test that would accurately locate the one jurisdiction for any set of circumstances that would be the jurisdiction whose law would apply. The result of the analysis was that for financial institutions with many offices, it is often not possible to point to one particular location. Delegates concluded that a test that tried to actually locate a particular securities account would result in an unacceptable level of impossibility or uncertainty.\n\nOver time a new approach was developed:\n\n\nThe main rule of the Convention can be summarised as follows:\n\n\nThe second step is to apply the \"qualifying office\" test. Art 4(2) contains a \"black list\" of activities, each of which by itself is not sufficient to constitute maintenance of securities accounts.\n\nArticle 5(1): Where the previous rule does not provide a result, and a written account agreement exists which \"expressly and unambiguously\" states that the relevant intermediary entered into the account agreement through a particular office, the applicable law is the law of the location of that office, provided the \"qualifying office\" test is fulfilled.\n\nArticle 5(2) and (3): These provide a fallback where Art 5(1) provides no answer. Under these provisions, the applicable law is determined with reference to the place of incorporation or organisation of the relevant intermediary, or its principal place of business.\n\nWhere the primary rule in Art 4 leads to the law of a territorial unit of a multi-unit state (such as Canada or Australia), Art 12 indicates that the applicable law can be the law of a territorial unit specified in the account agreement provided that the relevant intermediary has a qualifying office somewhere in the multi-unit state.\n\nIn Art 4(3), the Convention expressly provides that it applies in the specific case where an account holder:\n\n\nIn this situation, the Convention provides that the relevant intermediary is the account holder's own intermediary, and the account agreement between the account holder and its intermediary is the relevant account agreement to determine the law governing either perfection or completion.\n\nOther issues governed by the Convention include:\n\n\nIn 2003, Unidroit started a negotiation process with a view to harmonise the material aspects of intermediated securities. The purpose is to achieve a further step towards legal integration of securities markets, that consist not only in identifying the applicable law, but also in harmonising some parts of the legislation of the signatory States. These negotiations eventually reached the adoption, in October 2009, of the Unidroit convention on substantive rules for intermediated securities also known as the Geneva Securities Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "17426331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17426331", "title": "Harrison v Vincent", "text": "Harrison v Vincent\n\nHarrison v. Vincent [1982] RTR 8 is an English Court of Appeal judgment dealing with the liability negligence of participants in sporting competitions towards other participants. It is notable in that it extended the test of \"reckless disregard\" for the other's safety which was earlier applied to establish a breach of duty in cases of injury to spectators to cases where other participants had been injured.\n\nA sidecar passenger sued the motorcycle rider for injuries sustained during a race when the rider was unable to stop because he missed his gear, and his brakes failed.\n\nThe defendant had the duty to check the brakes before the race. Unlike his failure to hit the gear during the \"flurry and excitement\" of the race, the brakes should have been tested in the relative calm of the workshop before the race. For acts done in the excitement of the competition the participant will only be liable to others if she demonstrates reckless disregard for their safety, or acts maliciously. However, the standard applicable to the preparation of equipment for the sport is the normal standard, with exercise of reasonable care and skill.\n\n"}
{"id": "6501897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501897", "title": "Home state regulation", "text": "Home state regulation\n\nHome state regulation is a principle in the law of the European Union for resolving conflict of laws between Member States when dealing with cross-border selling or marketing of goods and services. The principle states that, where an action or service is performed in one country but received in another, the applicable law is the law of the country where the action or service is performed. It is also called home country control, country of origin rule, or country of origin principle. It is one possible rule of EU law, specifically of European Single Market law, that determines which laws will apply to goods or services that cross the border of Member States.\n\nThe opposing principle is host state regulation or the country of reception principle. In a directive, or regulation, where this principle applies, if a firm based in country A is selling into customers living in country B, they are regulated according to the laws of country B. Host state regulation is sometimes seen as hindering the single market, as firms need to be aware of 28 sets of national law. However, it is also argued that it gives better protection to consumers, who are unlikely to be aware of their rights under the laws of other EU member states.\n\nThe \"country of origin principle\" is a rule that is sometimes advanced with the intention of facilitating the free movement of goods or service providers so as to encourage cross-border competition or, possibly, to encourage individuals or companies to test other markets without having to establish in the target market. It is also sometimes intended to free providers of goods and service from the obligation to accommodate multiple regulatory regimes when trading across borders from a single location. \n\nHome state regulation is often held to help the single market, as firms only need to be aware of their own country's laws, rather than 27 sets of national law.\n\nEU law requires that the goods or services produced legally in one Member States should be allowed unhindered access to markets of other Member States. The latter are not allowed to apply their laws except in specific circumstances. When they are allowed to do so, this will be under a specifically developed test called General Good Test. For example, if a sale of goods is made over the Internet from a website in France to a purchaser in Italy, the country of origin principle would be said to apply if French law applied to the transaction, and the country of reception principle if Italian law prevailed.\n\nThe provision underlying the four freedoms (and therefore also the Home Country Control) is the prohibition of discrimination based on nationality: Article 12 (ex 6) of the EC Treaty. Over the course of years, this policy evolved to include prohibition on some behaviors that were non-discriminatory, based on the fact that their implementation created obstacles to trade between states. In a directive, or regulation, where home state regulation applies, if a firm based in country A is selling into customers living in country B, they are regulated according to the laws of country A. In turn, country B has to accept that the laws of country A are sufficient under the principle of mutual recognition. \n\nIn the sphere of goods, what these “non-discriminatory” obstacles were and how they were to be removed was clarified in \"Cassis\" (C-120/78, [1979] ECR 649) and \"Keck\" (Joined Cases C-267 and 268/91, 1993 [ECR] I-6097) cases of the Court of Justice. In services, this was done in \"Säger\" (C-76/90, [1991] ECR I-4221), and in establishment in \"Gebhard\" (C-55/94, [1995] ECR I-4165). The power of these cases lies in making the products and services legally made in one state (Home State) available in other state (Host State), where the latter is only exceptionally able to apply its law to the said good or service. In other words, once a good or a service gains a “passport” in its Home State, it can be freely exported into any other Member State. \n\nThe New Approach consists of three important elements: \n\nand was based on prohibition of non-discriminatory obstacles to trade. \n\nThe first part, minimum harmonization, aims to unify the absolute minimum of necessary standards. This would, in turn enable mutual recognition of laws, where the bulk of legal control takes place in the country of origin (Home State) and the country of destination acknowledges the former's regulatory power. This was considered practical, as control would be exercised at first port of call and, since the minimum of mutual standards would exist, there would be no danger of reducing the stringency to the standards of the least developed state. \n\nFor example, a banking service is part of wider efforts to harmonize financial services. A French bank is able to open a branch in the United Kingdom and all prudential supervision is conducted in France. The consolidated Directive on the business of credit institutions from 2000 represents the minimum of \"harmonized\" EC law. Britain (Host State) is obliged to recognize the fact that France only, as the country of origin (Home State) is entitled to conduct prudential supervision. Thus, there is only one control, in the Home State, and dual-burden of control in both states, which makes the service less competitive, disappears. The only option for Britain to apply its law to this banking service is to justify it under the General Good test.\n\nDirective 2000/31/EC, commonly known as the Electronic Commerce Directive, establishes that the country of origin principle shall prevail in European law for most, but not all, Information Society Services. Recital 22 of that Directive states:\n\nThe extent to which the country of origin principle should be applied to provision of services generally was a main point of political controversy in negotiation of the proposed Services Directive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1275028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1275028", "title": "Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha", "text": "Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha\n\nImmigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919 (1983), was a United States Supreme Court case ruling in 1983 that the one-house legislative veto violated the constitutional separation of powers.\n\nSection 244(a)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, , authorized the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to suspend deportation of an alien continually residing in the United States for at least seven years where the U.S. Attorney General, in his discretion, found that deportation would result in \"extreme hardship.\" After making such a finding, the Attorney General would transmit a report to Congress pursuant to § 244(c)(1) and either house of Congress had the power to veto the Attorney General's determination pursuant to § 244(c)(2).\n\nRespondent Jagdish Rai Chadha was born in the British colony of Kenya to Indian parents. Chadha was a Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies and entered the United States on a British passport when studying in Ohio as a foreign exchange student. After Kenya's declaration of independence from Britain in 1963 he was not recognized as a legitimate citizen or resident of Kenya (as his parents were Indian) or India (as he was born in Kenya). Furthermore, his right of abode in the United Kingdom was stripped under the Immigration Act 1971 due to his lack of connection with the United Kingdom. After his non-immigrant student visa expired in 1972, none of the three countries would accept him onto their territory, effectively making him \"de facto\" stateless.\n\nThe INS initiated deportation proceedings against Chadha. Chadha sought to suspend his deportation, and the INS accommodated his request according to § 244(a)(1), and transmitted a report of the suspension to Congress according to § 244(c)(2). The House of Representatives vetoed the suspension of Chadha's deportation, and the INS resumed deportation proceedings. Chadha raised constitutional objections to § 244(c)(2), but the immigration judge found he lacked any authority to rule on such claims and ordered Chadha deported. Chadha then appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which also found it lacked any authority to consider constitutional objections to § 244(c)(2). Chadha appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for review of the deportation order, and the INS supported his challenge to the constitutionality of § 244(c)(2). The Ninth Circuit found § 244(c)(2) unconstitutional and ordered the Attorney General to suspend deportation proceedings. The INS appealed the Ninth Circuit's decision to the Supreme Court in order to obtain a final judgment on the constitutionality of § 244(c)(2).\n\nThe House and Senate, as \"amici curiae\", argued that the Ninth Circuit erred in holding that the resolution of the House of Representatives vetoing the Attorney General's determination was constitutionally invalid. It asked the United States Supreme Court to reverse the Ninth Circuit's decision.\n\nCongress argued that: (1) Chadha lacked standing to challenge the constitutionality of § 244(c)(2) because that section is not severable from § 244(a)(1). Therefore, if Chadha were to succeed in invalidating § 244(c)(2), his means of remedy in § 244(a)(1) would also be destroyed, and there would be no relief possible; (2) the Court did not have jurisdiction over the issue because the Attorney General and INS enforced the challenged statute and thereby effectively waived their right to challenge it; (3) the action was not a genuine case or controversy, as both the original plaintiff and defendant challenged the statute without real opposition; (4) the action was a non-justiciable political question.\n\nThe Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals' judgment. In an opinion by Chief Justice Burger, the Court held that the resolution of the House of Representatives vetoing the Attorney General's determination was constitutionally invalid, unenforceable, and not binding. Congress may not promulgate a statute granting to itself a legislative veto over actions of the executive branch inconsistent with the bicameralism principle and Presentment Clause of the United States Constitution.\n\nThe Court rebutted Congress's assertions as follows: (1) § 244(c)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is severable from the rest of the act pursuant to the express severability clause § 406. The legislative history of § 244 supports the proposition that Congress, frustrated with the process of passing private laws to provide relief for deportable individuals, would likely not have been willing to retain the private law mechanism rather than ceding all power to the Attorney General. (2) The Attorney General and INS did not waive their right to challenge the constitutionality of the statute by enforcing the statute. (3) The action is a genuine case with adequate representation in favor of sustaining the act provided by the houses of Congress as \"amici curiae\". (4) The case is a judicable question, not exempted by the political question doctrine; the constitutionality of a statute is a question for the courts.\n\nThe Court then presented its affirmative reasoning: (5) When the Constitution provides express procedures, such procedures must be strictly observed. Two such provisions are bicameralism and presentment in the enactment of law. (6) The presentment process—especially the President's veto power—was intended by the Framers to provide a mechanism by which the executive branch could defend itself against legislative encroachment and could prevent ill-conceived policies. (7) Similarly, the bicameralism requirement was formulated in order to hinder congressional action and thereby prevent legislative encroachment. (8) The action of the House of Representatives is legislative in nature because (a) it modifies rights and duties of individuals outside the legislative branch; (b) the enactment would otherwise have required a private law, which is a legislative function; and (c) the nature of the action is inherently legislative. (9) When the Framers intended to authorize Congress to exercise power outside of the bicameral and presentment principles, it provided alternate procedures explicitly; other procedures cannot be admitted. (10) Because the action of the House of Representatives was legislative, but did not conform to the mode of action specifically stated by the Constitution for legislative action; it is therefore invalid, unenforceable, and not binding.\n\nJustice Powell, in a concurring opinion, argued that to invalidate all legislative veto provisions is a serious matter, as Congress views the legislative veto as essential to controlling the executive branch, and should therefore be undertaken with caution. However, Congress's action in this case is nonetheless unconstitutional. Contrary to the views of the majority, Congress's action is not legislative in character but adjudicative, and it therefore violates the principle (called the anti-aggrandizement principle) that Congress may not expand its own power into the areas of competence of the other branches. The Constitution specifically attempted to prevent this form of aggrandizement in the Bill of Attainder Clause, Art. I, § 9, cl. 3, which prohibits Congress from undertaking legislative trials that lack the safeguards and accountability of judicial trials. For a house of Congress to force the deportation of Chadha would amount to such a legislative trial.\n\nJustice White, dissenting, argued that (1) the legislative veto power is absolutely necessary to modern government, as exemplified by the legislative veto powers granted in the War Powers Act of 1973. (2) The absence of constitutional provisions for alternate methods of action does not imply their prohibition by the Constitution, and the Court has consistently read the Constitution to respond to contemporary needs with flexibility. (3) The legislative veto power does not involve the ability of Congress to enact new legislation without bicameral consensus or presentation to the president, but instead involves the ability of Congress to veto suggestions by the executive, a power that both houses of Congress already possess. (4) The Court has allowed Congress to delegate authority to executive agencies; lawmaking does not always require bicameralism or presentation. (5) The bicameralism and presentation provisions of the Constitution serve to ensure that no departure from the status quo takes place without consensus from both houses of Congress and the President or by a super-majority vote of both houses of Congress. In this case, the deportation of Chadha is the \"status quo\" situation, and the veto by House of Representatives of an alternative suggestion of the executive branch is reasonable given the purposes of bicameralism and the Presentment Clause.\n\nJustice Rehnquist, in a dissent joined by White, argued that it is unlikely that Congress would have promulgated § 244(a)(1) without the corresponding provisions of §§ 244(c)(1–2). Therefore, the provisions are not severable from one another, and holding one unconstitutional requires invalidating the other.\n\nChadha became a citizen of the United States and was living in Albany, California, as of October 2015.\n\nLegislative vetoes continued to be enacted after \"Chadha\", although various presidents have issued executive signing statements disclaiming the unconstitutional legislative veto provisions. The consultation provisions of the War Powers Act, for example, while contested by every president since Richard M. Nixon, are usually grudgingly obeyed. Other processes, such as fast-track legislation, have taken the place of the legislative veto and achieved the same effects. The Contract with America Advancement Act of 1996, 5 U.S.C. Sections 801-808, allowed Congress to disapprove federal agency regulations. Such a veto had been exercised only once, in March 2001, until 2017, when the 115th Congress under President Donald Trump passed fifteen such vetoes, overturning various rules issued under the Obama administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42024350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42024350", "title": "Jurisdictional error", "text": "Jurisdictional error\n\nJurisdictional error is a concept in administrative law, particularly in the UK and Australia. Jurisdiction is the \"authority to decide\", and a jurisdictional error occurs when the extent of that authority is misconceived. Decisions affected by jurisdictional error can be quashed by judicial review. Examples of jurisdictional errors include asking the wrong question, ignoring relevant material, relying on irrelevant material, and breaching natural justice.\n\nIn Australia, the definition of Jurisdictional error can be found in High Court judgements.\n\nHayne J has defined jurisdictional error in the following terms:\n\nThe difficulty of drawing a bright line between jurisdictional error and error in the exercise of jurisdiction should not be permitted, however, to obscure the difference that is illustrated by considering clear cases of each species of error. There is a jurisdictional error if the decision maker makes a decision outside the limits of the functions and powers conferred on him or her, or does something which he or she lacks power to do. By contrast, incorrectly deciding something which the decision maker is authorised to decide is an error within jurisdiction.\n\nA more specific definition of Jurisdictional error is defined as follows:\n\nJurisdictional error is at its most obvious where the inferior court purports to act wholly or partly outside the general area of its jurisdiction in the sense of entertaining a matter or making a decision or order of a kind which wholly or partly lies outside the theoretical limits of its functions and powers.\n\nThe power of superior courts to respond to jurisdictional error by issuing the prerogative writs is entrenched in Australia's Constitution:\n\nHowever, the term has been subject to criticism. In 2008, Kirby J held:\n\nMark Aronson identifies 8 categories of jurisdictional error:\nThis list is non-exhaustive, as these grounds lead to invalidity and therefore jurisdictional error.\n\nJurisdictional error is a separate ground of review under the ADJR Act, sought on the ground \"that the person who purported to make the decision did not have jurisdiction to make the decision\". The nine statutory grounds of review provided for in s 5 of the ADJR Act overlap substantially with the concept of jurisdictional error at common law. Jurisdictional error can \"be seen to embrace a number of different kinds of errors\" administered in an administrative tribunal. As such, the circumstances of a particular case may permit more than one characterisation.\" \n\nCanadian administrative law has a similar set of concepts called \"Substantive review\" which incorporates most of the criteria of Jurisdictional error\n\nIn Singapore they are known as Precedent fact errors but works effectively like the United Kingdom jurisprudence.\n\nJudicial review in Hong Kong is effectively the English system and is enshrined in Article 35 of the constitution.\n\nIn the UK the House of Lords has held they are \"... an incorrect interpretation of a statutory phrase by the ... authorities [that] amounted to an error of law that was judicially reviewable\".\n\nAs with Canada, judicial review in Scotland does not use the term but holds many of the concepts in their judicial review system.\n\nIn the CCSU Case, Lord Diplock suggests that the grounds can be reduced to three or four broad concepts – 'illegality', 'irrationality', 'procedural impropriety' and 'proportionality'.\n\nThe term 'jurisdictional error' is not used in:\n"}
{"id": "328874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328874", "title": "Korean Demilitarized Zone", "text": "Korean Demilitarized Zone\n\nThe Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ; Chosŏn'gŭl/Hangul: 한반도 비무장 지대; Hanja: 韓半島非武裝地帶) is a strip of land running across the Korean Peninsula. It is established by the provisions of the Korean Armistice Agreement to serve as a buffer zone between North Korea and South Korea. The demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a border barrier that divides the Korean Peninsula roughly in half. It was created by agreement between North Korea, China and the United Nations in 1953. The DMZ is long, and about wide.\n\nWithin the DMZ is a meeting point between the two nations in the small Joint Security Area (JSA) near the western end of the zone, where negotiations take place. There have been various incidents in and around the DMZ, with military and civilian casualties on both sides. \nThe Korean Demilitarized Zone intersects but does not follow the 38th parallel north, which was the border before the Korean War. It crosses the parallel on an angle, with the west end of the DMZ lying south of the parallel and the east end lying north of it.\n\nThe DMZ is long, approximately wide. Though the zone separating both sides is demilitarized, the border beyond that strip is one of the most heavily militarized borders in the world. The Northern Limit Line, or NLL, is the disputed maritime demarcation line between North and South Korea in the Yellow Sea, not agreed in the armistice. The coastline and islands on both sides of the NLL are also heavily militarized.\n\nThe 38th parallel north—which divides the Korean Peninsula roughly in half—was the original boundary between the United States and Soviet Union's brief administration areas of Korea at the end of World War II. Upon the creation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK, informally \"North Korea\") and the Republic of Korea (ROK, informally \"South Korea\") in 1948, it became a \"de facto\" international border and one of the most tense fronts in the Cold War.\n\nBoth the North and the South remained dependent on their sponsor states from 1948 to the outbreak of the Korean War. That conflict, which claimed over three million lives and divided the Korean Peninsula along ideological lines, commenced on 25 June 1950, with a full-front DPRK invasion across the 38th parallel, and ended in 1953 after international intervention pushed the front of the war back to near the 38th parallel.\n\nIn the Armistice Agreement of 27 July 1953, the DMZ was created as each side agreed to move their troops back from the front line, creating a buffer zone wide. The Military Demarcation Line (MDL) goes through the center of the DMZ and indicates where the front was when the agreement was signed.\n\nOwing to this theoretical stalemate, and genuine hostility between the North and the South, large numbers of troops are stationed along both sides of the line, each side guarding against potential aggression from the other side, even years after its establishment. The armistice agreement explains exactly how many military personnel and what kind of weapons are allowed in the DMZ. Soldiers from both sides may patrol inside the DMZ, but they may not cross the MDL. However, heavily armed ROK soldiers patrol under the aegis of military police, and have memorized each line of the armistice. Sporadic outbreaks of violence have killed over 500 South Korean soldiers, 50 US soldiers and 250 soldiers from DPRK along the DMZ between 1953 and 1999.\n\nDaeseong-dong (also written \"Tae Sung Dong\") and Kijŏng-dong (also known as the \"Peace Village\") are the only settlements allowed by the armistice committee to remain within the boundaries of the DMZ. Residents of Tae Sung Dong are governed and protected by the United Nations Command and are generally required to spend at least 240 nights per year in the village to maintain their residency. In 2008, the village had a population of 218 people. The villagers of Tae Sung Dong are direct descendants of people who owned the land before the 1950–53 Korean War.\n\nTo continue to deter North Korean incursion, in 2014 the United States government exempted the Korean DMZ from its pledge to eliminate anti-personnel landmines. On October 1, 2018, however, a 20-day process began to remove landmines from both sides of the DMZ.\n\nInside the DMZ, near the western coast of the peninsula, Panmunjom is the home of the Joint Security Area (JSA). Originally, it was the only connection between North and South Korea but that changed on 17 May 2007, when a Korail train went through the DMZ to the North on the new Donghae Bukbu Line built on the east coast of Korea. However, the resurrection of this line was short-lived, as it closed again in July 2008 following an incident in which a South Korean tourist was shot and killed.\n\nThere are several buildings on both the north and the south side of the Military Demarcation Line (MDL), and there have been some built on top of it. The JSA is the location where all negotiations since 1953 have been held, including statements of Korean solidarity, which have generally amounted to little except a slight decline of tensions. The MDL goes through the conference rooms and down the middle of the conference tables where the North Koreans and the United Nations Command (primarily South Koreans and Americans) meet face to face.\n\nWithin the JSA are a number of buildings for joint meetings called Conference Rooms. These are used for direct talks between the Korean War participants and parties to the armistice. Facing the Conference Row buildings are the North Korean \"Panmungak\" () and the South Korean Freedom House. In 1994, North Korea enlarged Panmungak by adding a third floor. In 1998, South Korea built a new Freedom House for its Red Cross staff and to possibly host reunions of families separated by the Korean War. The new building incorporated the old Freedom House Pagoda within its design.\n\nSince 1953 there have been occasional confrontations and skirmishes within the JSA. The axe murder incident in August 1976 involved the attempted trimming of a tree which resulted in two deaths (Captain Arthur Bonifas and First Lieutenant Mark Barrett). Another incident occurred on 23 November 1984, when a Soviet tourist named Vasily Matuzok (sometimes spelled Matusak), who was part of an official trip to the JSA (hosted by the North), ran across the MDL shouting that he wanted to defect. North Korean troops immediately chased after him, opening fire. Border guards on the South Korean side returned fire, eventually surrounding the North Koreans as they pursued Matusak. One South Korean and three North Korean soldiers were killed in the action, and Matusak was not captured.\n\nIn late 2009, South Korean forces in conjunction with the United Nations Command began renovation of its three guard posts and two checkpoint buildings within the JSA compound. Construction was designed to enlarge and modernize the structures. Work was undertaken a year after North Korea finished replacing four JSA guard posts on its side of the MDL. On 15 October 2018, during the high-level talks in Panmunjom, military officials of the rank of colonel from the two Koreas and Burke Hamilton, Secretary of the UNC Military Armistice Commission, announced measures to reduce conventional military threats, such as creating buffer zones along their land and sea boundaries and a no-fly zone above the border, removing 11 front-line guard posts by December, and demining sections of the Demilitarized Zone.\n\nBoth North and South Korea maintain \"peace villages\" in sight of each other's side of the DMZ. In the South, Daeseong-dong is administered under the terms of the DMZ. Villagers are classed as Republic of Korea citizens, but are exempt from paying tax and other civic requirements such as military service. In the North, Kijŏng-dong features a number of brightly painted, poured-concrete multi-story buildings and apartments with electric lighting. These features represented an unheard-of level of luxury for rural Koreans, North or South, in the 1950s. The town was oriented so that the bright blue roofs and white sides of the buildings would be the most distinguishing features when viewed from the border. However, based on scrutiny with modern telescopic lenses, it has been claimed the buildings are mere concrete shells lacking window glass or even interior rooms, with the building lights turned on and off at set times and the empty sidewalks swept by a skeleton crew of caretakers in an effort to preserve the illusion of activity.\n\nIn the 1980s, the South Korean government built a flag pole in Daeseong-dong, which flies a South Korean flag weighing . In what some have called the \"flagpole war,\" the North Korean government responded by building the Panmunjeom flagpole in Kijŏng-dong, only west of the border with South Korea. It flies a flag of North Korea. As of 2014, the Panmunjom flagpole is the fourth tallest in the world, after the Jeddah Flagpole in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, at , the Dushanbe Flagpole in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, at and the pole at the National Flag Square in Baku, Azerbaijan, which is .\n\nSince demarcation, the DMZ has had numerous cases of incidents and incursions by both sides, although the North Korean government typically never acknowledges direct responsibility for any of these incidents (there are exceptions, such as the axe incident). This was particularly intense during the Korean DMZ Conflict (1966–1969) when a series of skirmishes along the DMZ resulted in the deaths of 43 American, 299 South Korean and 397 North Korean soldiers. This included the Blue House Raid in 1968, an attempt to assassinate President Park Chung Hee at the Blue House.\n\nIn 1976, in now-declassified meeting minutes, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense William Clements told Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that there had been 200 raids or incursions into North Korea from the south, though not by the U.S. military. Details of only a few of these incursions have become public, including raids by South Korean forces in 1967 that had sabotaged about 50 North Korean facilities.\n\nSince 15 November 1974, South Korea has discovered four tunnels crossing the DMZ that had been dug by North Korea. The orientation of the blasting lines within each tunnel indicated they were dug by North Korea. North Korea claimed that the tunnels were for coal mining; however, no coal was found in the tunnels, which were dug through granite. Some of the tunnel walls were painted black to give the appearance of anthracite.\n\nThe tunnels are believed to have been planned as a military invasion route by North Korea. They run in a north-south direction and do not have branches. Following each discovery, engineering within the tunnels has become progressively more advanced. For example, the third tunnel sloped slightly upwards as it progressed southward, to prevent water stagnation. Today, visitors from the south may visit the second, third and fourth tunnels through guided tours.\n\nThe first of the tunnels was discovered on 20 November 1974, by a South Korean Army patrol, noticing steam rising from the ground. The initial discovery was met with automatic fire from North Korean soldiers. Five days later, during a subsequent exploration of this tunnel, US Navy Commander Robert M. Ballinger and ROK Marine Corps Major Kim Hah-chul were killed in the tunnel by a North Korean explosive device. The blast also wounded five Americans and one South Korean from the United Nations Command.\n\nThe tunnel, which was about , extended more than beyond the MDL into South Korea. The tunnel was reinforced with concrete slabs and had electric power and lighting. There were weapon storage and sleeping areas. A narrow-gauge railway with carts had also been installed. Estimates based on the tunnel's size suggest it would have allowed considerable numbers of soldiers to pass through it.\n\nThe second tunnel was discovered on 19 March 1975. It is of similar length to the first tunnel. It is located between below ground, but is larger than the first, approximately .\n\nThe third tunnel was discovered on 17 October 1978. Unlike the previous two, the third tunnel was discovered following a tip from a North Korean defector. This tunnel is about long and about below ground. Foreign visitors touring the South Korean DMZ may view inside this tunnel using a sloped access shaft.\n\nA fourth tunnel was discovered on 3 March 1990, north of Haean town in the former Punchbowl battlefield. The tunnel's dimensions are , and it is deep. The method of construction is almost identical in structure to the second and the third tunnels.\n\nAccording to North Korea, between 1977 and 1979 the South Korean and United States authorities constructed a concrete wall along the DMZ. North Korea, however, began to propagate information about the wall after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, when the symbolism of a wall unjustly dividing a people became more apparent.\n\nVarious organizations, such as the North Korean tour guide company Korea Konsult, claimed a wall was dividing Korea, saying that:\n\nIn December 1999, Chu Chang-jun, North Korea's ambassador to China, repeated claims that a \"wall\" divided Korea. He said the south side of the wall is packed with soil, which permits access to the top of the wall and makes it effectively invisible from the south side. He also claimed that it served as a bridgehead for any northward invasion.\n\nThe United States and South Korea deny the wall's existence, although they do claim there are anti-tank barriers along some sections of the DMZ.\n\nIn the RT documentary \"10 Days in North Korea\", the crew shot footage of a wall as seen from North Korea and described it as a \"5 metre high wall stretching from east to west\". Dutch journalist and filmmaker Peter Tetteroo also shot footage of a barrier in 2001 which his North Korean guides said was the Korean Wall.\n\nA 2007 Reuters report revealed that there is no coast to coast wall located across the DMZ and that the pictures of a \"wall\" which have been used in North Korean propaganda have merely been pictures of concrete anti-tank barriers. While 800,000 landmines were being removed in 2018, it was shown that the Joint Security Area along the Korean border was guarded by standard barbed wire.\n\nThe North Korean side of the DMZ primarily serves to defend North Korea from invasion by South Korean forces. It also serves a similar function as the Berlin Wall and the inner German border did against its own citizens in the former East Germany in that it stops North Korean citizens from defecting to South Korea.\n\nFrom the armistice until 1972, approximately 7,700 South Korean soldiers and agents infiltrated North Korea to sabotage military bases and industrial areas.\n\nNorth Korea has thousands of artillery pieces near the DMZ. According to a 2018 article in \"The Economist\", North Korea could bombard Seoul with over 10,000 rounds every minute. Experts believe that 60 percent of its total artillery is positioned within a few kilometers of the DMZ acting as a deterrent against any South Korean invasion.\n\nFrom 1953 until 2004 both sides broadcast audio propaganda across the DMZ. Massive loudspeakers mounted on several of the buildings delivered DPRK propaganda broadcasts directed towards the south as well as propaganda radio broadcasts across the border. In 2004, the North and South agreed to end the broadcasts.\n\nIn August 2015, a border incident occurred where two South Korean soldiers were wounded after stepping on landmines that had allegedly been laid on the southern side of the DMZ by North Korean forces near an ROK guard post. Both North Korea and South Korea then resumed broadcasting propaganda by loudspeaker. After four days of negotiations, on August 25, 2015 South Korea agreed to discontinue the broadcasts following a statement from North Korea's government expressing \"regret\" for the landmine incident.\n\nOn 8 January 2016, in response to North Korea's supposed successful testing of a hydrogen bomb, South Korea resumed broadcasts directed at the north. On 15 April 2016, it was reported that the South Koreans purchased a new stereo system to combat the North's broadcasts.\n\nBoth North and South Korea have held balloon propaganda leaflet campaigns since the Korean War.\n\nIn recent years, mainly South Korean non-governmental organizations have been involved in launching balloons targeted at the DMZ and beyond. Due to the winds, the balloons tend to fall near the DMZ where there are mostly North Korean soldiers to see the leaflets. As with the loudspeakers, balloon operations were mutually agreed to be halted between 2004 and 2010. It has been assessed that the activists' balloons may contribute to the decay of remaining cooperation between the Korean governments, and the DMZ has become more militarized in recent years.\n\nMany North Korean leaflets during the Cold War gave instructions and maps to help targeted South Korean soldiers in defecting. One of the leaflets found on the DMZ included a map of Cho Dae-hum's route of defection to North Korea across the DMZ. In addition to using balloons as a means of delivery, North Koreans have also used rockets to send leaflets to the DMZ.\n\nOn April 23, 2018, both North and South Korea officially cancelled their border propaganda broadcasts for the last time. On May 1, 2018, the loudspeakers across the Korean border were dismantled. Also on May 1, both sides committed to ending the balloon campaigns. On May 5, 2018, an attempt by North Korean defectors to disperse more balloon propaganda across the border from South Korea was halted by the South Korean government. The no-fly zone which was established on November 1, 2018 also designated a no-fly zone for all aircraft types above the MDL, and prohibits hot-air balloons from traveling within 25 km of the Korean border's Military Demarcation Line (MDL).\n\nThe Civilian Control Line is a line that designates an additional buffer zone to the DMZ within a distance of from the Southern Limit Line of the DMZ. Its purpose is to limit and control the entrance of civilians into the area in order to protect and maintain the security of military facilities and operations near the DMZ. The commander of the 8th US Army ordered the creation of the CCL and it was activated and first became effective in February 1954.\n\nThe buffer zone that falls south of the Southern Limit Line is called the Civilian Control Zone. Barbed wire fences and manned military guard posts mark the Civilian Control Line. The Civilian Control Zone is necessary for the military to monitor civilian travel to tourist destinations close to the Southern Limit Line of the DMZ like the discovered infiltration tunnels and tourist observatories. Usually when traveling within the Civilian Control Zone, South Korean soldiers accompany tourist buses and cars as armed guards to monitor the civilians as well as to protect them from North Korean intruders.\n\nRight after the ceasefire, the Civilian Control Zone outside the DMZ encompassed 100 or so empty villages. The government implemented migration measures to attract settlers into the area. As a result, in 1983, when the area delineated by the Civilian Control Line was at its largest, a total of 39,725 residents in 8,799 households were living in the 81 villages located within the Civilian Control Zone.\n\nMost of the tourist and media photos of the \"DMZ fence\" are actually photos of the CCL fence. The actual DMZ fence on the Southern Limit Line is completely off-limits to everybody except soldiers and it is illegal to take pictures of the DMZ fence. The CCL fence acts more as a deterrent for South Korean civilians from getting too close to the dangerous DMZ and is also the final barrier for North Korean infiltrators if they get past the Southern Limit Line DMZ fence.\n\nThe whole estuary of the Han River is deemed a \"Neutral Zone\" and is off-limits to all civilian vessels and is treated like the rest of the DMZ. Only military vessels are allowed within this neutral zone.\n\nAccording to the July 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement civil shipping was supposed to be permissible in the Han River estuary and allow Seoul to be connected to the Yellow Sea (West Sea) via the Han River. However, both Koreas and the UNC failed to make this happen. The South Korean government ordered the construction of the Ara Canal to finally connect Seoul to the Yellow Sea, which was completed in 2012. Seoul was effectively landlocked from the ocean until 2012. The biggest limitation of the Ara Canal is it is too narrow to handle any vessels except small tourist boats and recreational boats, so Seoul still cannot receive large commercial ships or passenger ships in its port.\n\nIn recent years Chinese fishing vessels have taken advantage of the tense situation in the Han River Estuary Neutral Zone and illegally fished in this area due to both the North Korean and South Korean navies never patrolling this area due to the fear of naval battles breaking out. This has led to firefights and sinkings of boats between Chinese fishermen and the South Korean Coast Guard.\n\nWithin the DMZ itself, in the town of Cheorwon, is the old capital of the kingdom of Taebong (901–918), a regional upstart that became Goryeo, the dynasty that ruled a united Korea from 918 to 1392.\n\nTaebong was founded by the charismatic leader Gung Ye, a brilliant if tyrannical one-eyed ex-Buddhist monk. Rebelling against the kingdom of Silla, Korea's then ruling dynasty, he proclaimed the kingdom of Taebong—also called Later Goguryeo, in reference to the ancient kingdom of Goguryeo (37BCE-668CE)—in 901, with himself as king. The kingdom consisted of much of central Korea, including areas around the DMZ. He placed his capital in Cheorwon, a mountainous region that was easily defensible (in the Korean War, this same region would earn the name \"the Iron Triangle\").\n\nAs a former Buddhist monk, Gung Ye actively promoted the religion of Buddhism and incorporated Buddhist ceremonies into the new kingdom. Even after Gung Ye was dethroned by his own generals and replaced by Wang Geon, the man who would rule over a united Korea as the first king of Goryeo, this Buddhist influence would continue, playing a major role in shaping the culture of medieval Korea.\n\nAs the ruins of Gung Ye's capital lie in the DMZ itself, visitors cannot see them. Moreover, excavation work and research have been hampered by political realities. In the future, inter-Korean peace may allow for proper archaeological studies to be conducted on the castle site and other historical sites within and underneath the DMZ.\n\nThe ruins of the capital city of Taebong, the ruins of the castle of Gung Ye, and King Gung Ye's tomb all lie within the DMZ and are off-limits to everybody except soldiers who patrol the DMZ.\n\nPanmunjeom is the site of the negotiations that ended the Korean War and is the main center of human activity in the DMZ. The village is located on the main highway and near a railroad connecting the two Koreas.\n\nThe railway, which connects Seoul and Pyongyang, was called the Gyeongui Line before division in the 1940s. Currently the South uses the original name, but the North refers to the route as the P'yŏngbu Line. The railway line has been mainly used to carry materials and South Korean workers to the Kaesong Industrial Region. Its reconnection has been seen as part of the general improvement in the relations between North and South in the early part of this century. However, in November 2008 North Korean authorities closed the railway amid growing tensions with the South. Following the death of former South Korean President Kim Dae-jung, conciliatory talks were held between South Korean officials and a North Korean delegation who attended Kim's funeral. In September 2009, the Kaesong rail and road crossing was reopened.\n\nThe road at Panmunjeom, which was known historically as \"Highway One\" in the South, was originally the only access point between the two countries on the Korean Peninsula. Passage is comparable to the strict movements that occurred at Checkpoint Charlie in Berlin at the height of the Cold War. Both North and South Korea's roads end in the JSA; the highways do not quite join as there is a concrete line that divides the entire site. People given the rare permission to cross this border must do so on foot before continuing their journey by road.\n\nIn 2007, on the east coast of Korea, the first train crossed the DMZ on the new Donghae Bukbu (Tonghae Pukpu) Line. The new rail crossing was built adjacent to the road which took South Koreans to Mount Kumgang Tourist Region, a region of significant cultural importance for all Koreans. More than one million civilian visitors crossed the DMZ until the route was closed following the shooting of a 53-year-old South Korean tourist in July 2008. After a joint investigation was rebuffed by North Korea, the South Korean government suspended tours to the resort. Since then the resort and the Donghae Bukbu Line have effectively been closed by North Korea. Currently, the South Korean Korea Railroad Corporation (Korail) organizes tours to DMZ with special DMZ themed trains. \n\nOn October 14, 2018, North and South Korea, agreed to meet the summit's goal of restoring railway and road transportation which had been cut since the Korean War by either late November or early December 2018. Road and railway transportation along the DMZ was reconnected in November 2018.\n\nIn the past half century, the Korean DMZ has been a deadly place for humans, making habitation impossible. Only around the village of Panmunjom and more recently the Donghae Bukbu Line on Korea's east coast have there been regular incursions by people.\n\nThis natural isolation along the length of the DMZ has created an involuntary park which is now recognized as one of the most well-preserved areas of temperate habitat in the world. In 1966 it was first proposed that the DMZ be turned into a national park.\n\nSeveral endangered animal and plant species now exist among the heavily fortified fences, landmines and listening posts. These include the endangered red-crowned crane (a staple of Asian art), the white-naped crane, and, potentially, the extremely rare Siberian tiger, Amur leopard, and Asiatic black bear. Ecologists have identified some 2,900 plant species, 70 types of mammals and 320 kinds of birds within the narrow buffer zone. Additional surveys are now being conducted throughout the region.\n\nThe DMZ owes its varied biodiversity to its geography, which crosses mountains, prairies, swamps, lakes, and tidal marshes. Environmentalists hope that the DMZ will be conserved as a wildlife refuge, with a well-developed set of objective and management plans vetted and in place. In 2005, CNN founder and media mogul Ted Turner, on a visit to North Korea, said that he would financially support any plans to turn the DMZ into a peace park and a UN-protected World Heritage Site.\n\nIn September 2011, South Korea submitted a nomination form to Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB) in UNESCO for designation of in the southern part of the DMZ below the Military Demarcation Line, as well as in privately controlled areas, as a Biosphere Reserve according to the Statutory Framework of the World Network of Biosphere Reserves. The MAB National Committee of the Republic of Korea mentioned only the southern part of DMZ to be nominated since there was no response from Pyongyang when it requested Pyongyang to push jointly. North Korea is a member nation of the international coordinating council of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Programme, which designates Biosphere Reserves.\n\nNorth Korea opposed the application as a violation of the armistice agreement during the council's meeting in Paris on July 9 to 13, 2011. The South Korean government's attempt to designate the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve was turned down at UNESCO's MAB council meeting in Paris in July 2012. Pyongyang expressed its opposition by sending letters to 32 council member countries, except for South Korea, and the UNESCO headquarters a month prior to the meeting. At the council meeting, Pyongyang said the designation violated the Armistice Agreement.\n\nOn October 26, 2018, South Korean Major Gen. Kim Do-gyun and North Korean general Lt. Gen. An Ik San met in Tongilgak (the \"Unification Pavilion\"), a North Korean building located within the DMZ's Joint Security Area (JSA). There, they begun implementing new protocols which aim to reduce tension by requiring both North and South Korea to destroy 22 guard posts across the DMZ, among other steps. Both generals approved requirements for the guard posts to be destroyed by the end of November 2018. The JSA's guard posts were destroyed on October 25, 2018. North and South Korea agreed to dismantle 11 guard posts located within their individual country and deemed as \"front-line.\" It was also agreed that after the posts are dismantled, both Koreas would also withdraw equipment and personnel stationed at each post as well. In tandem with the September 2018 Pyongyang and Military Domain Agreements, both sides also agreed to gradually remove all guard posts near the DMZ following verification in December 2018. \n\nHowever, all remaining troops and equipment, including weapons, were withdrawn from all of the 22 \"frontline\" guard posts before destruction began and both Koreas later agreed to individually destroy 10 of these guard posts instead of 11.\n\nOn November 4, 2018, the North and South Korean governments hoisted a yellow flag above each of their 11 DMZ guard posts to publicly indicate that they all will be dismantled. On November 10, 2018, the withdrawal of military personnel and weapons from all of the DMZ's 22 \"front-line\" guard posts was completed. The destruction of 20 guard posts officially began on November 11, 2018. However, both Koreas amended the original agreement and decided to preserve 2 of the 22 now demilitarized frontline guard posts. Both of the posts which were planned to be preserved are located on the opposite sides of the Korean border.\n\nOn November 15, 2018, destruction of two DMZ guard posts, one being located in South Korea and the other located in North Korea, was completed. Work was still ongoing to complete the destruction of other guard posts as well. On November 23, 2018, it was revealed that South Korea was slowly destroying their guard posts with excavators.\n\nOn November 20, 2018, North Korea, hoping to further ease tensions with South Korea, destroyed all of their 10 remaining \"frontline\" guard posts. The South Korean Defense Ministry released photos confirming this and also released a statement stating that North Korea had informed them about the plans to demolish them before it took place. This came in accordance with the earlier agreements. South Korea also released videos of the guard posts being destroyed as well.\n\nOn November 30, 2018, both Koreas completed work to dismantle 10 of their \"frontline\" guard posts. However, the later agreement for each Korea to preserve one \"frontline\" post was upheld as well. The \"frontline\" guard post which was preserved on the North Korean side of the DMZ was visited by Kim Jong Un in 2013 when tensions were rising between both Koreas.\n\nOn November 1, 2018, buffer zones were established across the DMZ by the North and South Korean militaries. In compliance with the Comprehensive Military Agreement which was signed at the September 2018 inter-Korean summit, the buffer zone helps ensure that both North and South Korea will effectively ban hostility on land, air, and sea. Both Koreas are prohibited from conducting live-fire artillery drills and regiment-level field maneuvering exercises or those by bigger units within 5 kilometers of the Military Demarcation Line (MDL). The buffer zones stretch from the north of Deokjeok Island to the south of Cho Island in the West Sea and the north of Sokcho city and south of Tongchon County in the East (Yellow) Sea.\n\nNo-fly zones have also been established along the DMZ to ban the operation of drones, helicopters and other aircraft over an area up to away from the MDL. For UAVs, within from the MDL in the East and from the MDL in the West. Hot-air balloons cannot travel within of the DMZ as well. For fixed-wing aircraft, no fly zones are designated within from the MDL in the East (between MDL Markers No. 0646 and 1292) and within of the MDL in the West (between MDL Markers No. 0001 and 0646). For rotary-wing aircraft, the no fly zones are designated within of the MDL. \n\nBoth Koreas also created \"peace zones\" near their disputed Yellow Sea border.\n\nOn November 22, 2018, North and South Korea completed construction to connect a three kilometer road along the DMZ, 90 km northeast of Seoul. This road, which crosses the Korean MDL land border, consists of 1.7 km in South Korea and 1.3 km in North Korea. The road was reconnected for the first time in 14 years in an effort to assist with a process at the DMZ's Arrowhead Hill involving the removal of landmines and exhumation of Korean War remains.\n\nOn October 1, 2018, North and South Korean military engineers began a scheduled 20 day removal process of landmines and other explosives planted across the DMZ's Joint Security Area of the (DMZ). Work to remove landmines from the Joint Security Area was completed on October 25, 2018. demining had begun at the DMZ's Arrowhead Hill and resulted in the discovery of Korean War remains. Work between both Koreas to remove landmines from Arrowhead Hill was completed on November 30, 2018.\n\nOn November 30, 2018, following the removal of the \"frontline\" guard posts and Arrowhead Hill landmines, railroad services between North and South Korea which ceased in November 2008 resumed. The same day, 30 officials from both North and South Korea started an 18-day survey of a 400-kilometre (248-mile) railroad section in North Korea alongside the DMZ between Kaesong and Sinuiju. Efforts to conduct the survey had previously been obstructed due to the presence of the guard posts and the Arrowhead Hill landmines. The survey will then follow the groundbreaking of a new railroad along the DMZ.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39080104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080104", "title": "Labour is not a commodity", "text": "Labour is not a commodity\n\n\"Labour is not a commodity\" is the principle expressed in the preamble to the International Labour Organization's founding documents. It expresses the view that people should not be treated like inanimate commodities, capital, another mere factor of production, or resources. Instead, people who work for a living should be treated as human beings and accorded dignity and respect.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38753831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38753831", "title": "List of labor unions in the United States", "text": "List of labor unions in the United States\n\nThis is a list of labor unions in the United States. Unions exist to represent the interests of workers, who form the membership. Under US labor law, the National Labor Relations Act 1935 is the primary statute which gives US unions rights. The rights of members are governed by the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act 1959. List Below\n\nThe American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations is the leading confederation of US trade unions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55032002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55032002", "title": "List of people granted executive clemency by Donald Trump", "text": "List of people granted executive clemency by Donald Trump\n\nSince taking office as the 45th President of the United States in January 2017, Donald Trump has granted executive clemency to a number of individuals.\n\nAs granted by the United States Constitution, \"executive clemency may take several forms, including pardon, commutation of sentence, remission of fine or restitution, and reprieve\".\n\n\n\nArticle II of the United States Constitution gives the president the power of clemency. The two most commonly used clemency powers are those of pardon and commutation. A pardon is an official forgiveness for an acknowledged crime. Once a pardon is issued, all punishment for the crime is waived. The person accepting the pardon must, however, acknowledge that the crime did take place. The president can only grant pardons for federal offences. The president maintains the Office of the Pardon Attorney in the U.S. Department of Justice to review all requests for pardons. The president can also commute a sentence which, in effect, changes the punishment to time served. While the guilty party may be released from custody or not have to serve out a prison term, all other punishments still apply.\n\nMost pardons are issued as oversight of the judicial branch, especially in cases where the Federal Sentencing Guidelines are considered too severe. This power can check the legislative and judicial branches by altering punishment for crimes. Presidents can issue blanket amnesty to forgive entire groups of people. For example, President Jimmy Carter granted amnesty to Vietnam draft dodgers who had fled to Canada. Presidents can also issue temporary suspensions of prosecution or punishment in the form of respites. This power is most commonly used to delay federal sentences of execution.\n\nRepublican President Donald Trump has issued seven pardons :\n\nRepublican President Donald Trump has issued four commutations :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50430039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50430039", "title": "Lorain Journal Co. v. United States", "text": "Lorain Journal Co. v. United States\n\nLorain Journal Co. v. United States, 342 U.S. 143 (1951), is a decision of the United States Supreme Court often cited as an example of a monopolization violation being based on unilateral denial of access to an essential facility, although it in fact involved concerted action. When the \"Lorain Journal\"'s monopoly over advertising in the Lorain, Ohio area was threatened by the establishment of a competing radio station, the Journal's publisher refused to accept advertising from those who advertised over the radio station and required them to advertise only in the Journal. The purpose of the publisher was to eliminate the competition of the radio station. The Supreme Court held that the publisher had attempted to monopolize trade and commerce, in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, and was properly enjoined from continuing the conduct.\n\nThe defendant The Lorain Journal Company published a newspaper here called the Journal. For some years, the Journal maintained \"a commanding and an overpowering\" position in the area. It reached 99% of the families in the city. It was the only daily newspaper. It carried a substantial amount of local and national advertising.\n\nUntil 1948, the Journal enjoyed a monopoly \"of the mass dissemination of news and advertising, both of a local and national character.\" In 1948, however, the FCC licensed the Elyria-Lorain Broadcasting Company to operate a radio station, WEOL, in the Elyria, Oberlin, and Lorain, Ohio area. Many of the local advertisers in the Journal wanted to use WEOL as well. The Journal developed a plan to eliminate the competition from WEOL. The Journal refused to accept local advertisements in the Journal from any Lorain County advertiser who advertised or who appeared to be about to advertise over WEOL.\nThe Journal monitored WEOL programs to determine the identity of the station's local Lorain advertisers. Those using the station had their contracts with the Journal terminated, and were able to renew them only after ceasing to advertise through WEOL. As a result, many Lorain County merchants either ceased advertising or abandoned their plans to advertise over WEOL. The district court found that \"the very existence of WEOL is imperiled by this attack upon one of its principal sources of business and income.\"\n\nThe district court therefore found a violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act and enjoined the Journal from continuing its program of refusing to deal with advertisers who advertised in WEOL and of requiring advertisers to advertise only in the Journal. The publisher appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nJustice Harold H. Burton delivered the unanimous opinion of the Court that the Journal's publisher attempted to monopolize in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act and was properly enjoined from continuing to do so.\n\nThe Court found the most important among the facts supporting the district court's judgment to be that the Journal enjoyed a nearly complete monopoly in Lorain from 1933 to 1948, together with a 99% coverage of all Lorain families. \"Those factors made the Journal an indispensable medium of advertising for many Lorain concerns.\" Accordingly, the Journal's:\n\nThe Court said it was clear that \"if all the newspapers in a city, in order to monopolize the dissemination of news and advertising by eliminating a competing radio station, conspired to accept no advertisements from anyone who advertised over that station,\" their boycott conspiracy would violate §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, since that was held in such cases as \"Fashion Originators' Guild v. FTC\". The Court continued, \"It is consistent with that result to hold here that a single newspaper, already enjoying a substantial monopoly in its area, violates the 'attempt to monopolize' clause of § 2 when it uses its monopoly to destroy threatened competition.\"\n\nThe Journal sought to excuse its conduct on the ground that it has a \"right as a private business concern to select its customers and to refuse to accept advertisement from whomever it pleases.\" The Court said that such a right is not unqualified:\n\nThe right claimed by the publisher is neither absolute nor exempt from regulation. Its exercise a purposeful means of monopolizing interstate commerce is prohibited by the Sherman Act. The operator of the radio station, equally with the publisher of the newspaper, is entitled to the protection of that Act.\n\n● A Note in the \"Virginia Law Review\" focused on the fact that the Court found an attempted monopolization of interstate commerce even though the Journal attempted to monopolize the advertising of local merchants only and did not refuse or try to monopolize the business of national advertisers because of their dealings with the radio station:\n\nIn this sense the monopoly was confined to the limits of a single city. This was nevertheless a forbidden monopoly, as the successful destruction of competition in local business by forcing the station to close would also have destroyed competition in interstate business, i.e., the national advertising carried by both the newspaper and the radio station. Thus the case is useful to point out again that the suppression of local competition is not free from the threat of prosecution under the Sherman Act simply because an intrastate and not an interstate monopoly is contemplated.\n\n● Charles Barber points to a contradiction or disconnect in the case law regarding specific intent in cases of this type. In \"Lorain Journal\", especially as interpreted in \"Times-Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States\", the specific intent behind the refusal to deal—a purpose to eliminate a competitor—or a purpose to create or maintain a monopoly—was a major theme in finding a § 2 Sherman Act violation. In \"Lorain Journal\", the district court had found that the purpose and intent of the Journal's refusals to sell \"was to destroy the broadcasting company.\" In \"Times-Picayune\", the Court held that monopolization did not occur because there was no showing of specific intent to destroy competition or build monopoly, and the newspaper's challenged practice was legal; because it was predominantly motivated \"by legitimate business aims.\" The Court distinguished the \"Lorain Journal\" case on the ground that there the newspaper's refusal to sell space to advertisers who advertised on the local radio station manifested \"bold, relentless, and predatory commercial behavior,\" which was absent in the \"Times-Picayune\" case. Barber maintains that the Court's \"emphasis on specific intent suggests that it regarded this as controlling\" on the monopolization issue. Yet, Barber insists, \"United States v. Griffith\", which is quoted in both \"Lorain Journal\" and \"Times-Picayune\", \"held that specific intent is no longer an element of the offense of monopolization under Section 2.\" \n\nBarber therefore concludes:\n\nThe cases reviewed above indicate that the courts are groping for an appropriate rationale of the monopoly provisions of the Sherman Act which, while limiting the freedom of a trader unduly to exploit trade advantages stemming from his market position, will assure the preservation of his essential freedom to develop his business, including his supplier and customer relationships, in accordance with his personal business judgment.\n\n● Donald Turner observed in the \"Harvard Law Review\" that the Supreme Court was \"unquestionably correct\" in holding the Journal's conduct an unlawful attempt to monopolize under section 2 of the Sherman Ac. Nonetheless, if the Court had been asked to do so, it could properly \"also have held that each seller [merchant contracting for advertisements] who complied with Lorain Journal's demands became party to an agreement with Lorain Journal to boycott the radio station.\" The only problem with holding that would be \"the seeming unfairness of subjecting the coerced sellers to criminal penalties.\" It would be a mistake, however, Turner argued, to hold (as in \"Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States\" or \"United States v. Parke, Davis & Co.\") \n\"that the sellers, each being aware that others would also cease patronizing the radio station, have agreed \"with each other\" to carry on a collective boycott [emphasis added].\" The reason is that:\n\n[T]he decision of each seller was apparently wholly independent of the decisions of the others; each decision simply reflected an economic choice, forced by the newspaper's policy, as to which advertising medium could be dispensed with at least cost, a choice wholly unaffected by what other sellers might choose to do.\n\nIn \"Interstate Circuit\", for example, \"there was ample evidence . . . to support a finding of horizontal agreement of the most obvious sort, including the significant evidence that the consequence of imposing limitations on the movie chains' subsequent-run competitors had been to increase not only the profits of the chains but also the profits of each distributor.\" In the \"Lorain Journal\" case, each acquiescent merchant \"ended up worse off than before.\" Such an agreement \"would be an odd sort of agreement.\" In such a case it would be more sensible to proceed against the instigating party [who] has coerced those with whom he dealt\" under a theory of attempted monopolization, as the Court did in the \"Lorain Journal\" case.\n\nFinally, Turner emphasizes:\n\nIn \"Lorain Journal\", for example, the principal culprit was clearly the newspaper which instigated the boycott of the radio station. The advertisers who dealt with the paper, and who acquiesced in its demands, were unwilling participants. Moreover, the situation can be remedied, as indeed it was in \"Lorain Journal\", by [the government's] proceeding against the instigator alone; freed of the unlawful pressures, the other parties would presumably revert to the nonrestrictive decisions they made before. These considerations might well and properly be taken into account by an enforcement agency in deciding whom to charge and whom not to charge with a violation of the act.\n"}
{"id": "7634662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7634662", "title": "National Congress of Belgium", "text": "National Congress of Belgium\n\nThe National Congress (, ) was a temporary legislative assembly in 1830, established shortly after the Belgian Provisional Government had proclaimed national independence following the Belgian Revolution. Its primary task was to create a constitution for the newly formed state.\n\nThe National Congress was elected by approximately 30,000 voters on 3 November 1830 and consisted of 200 members. Its president was Baron Erasme Louis Surlet de Chokier.\n\nThe assembly chose a constitutional popular monarchy as the form of government for Belgium and chose the son of the French King Louis-Philippe, Louis, Duke of Nemours, as the new head of state. Other candidates included Auguste de Beauharnais and Archduke Charles of Austria, younger brother of Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor and the last Governor-General of the Austrian Netherlands. The choice of Louis of Nemours, was unacceptable to the government of the United Kingdom and another candidate had to be found. Surlet de Chokier was appointed Regent while awaiting a new decision and was replaced as president of the National Congress by Etienne Constantin, Baron de Gerlache. Leopold of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha was definitively chosen to become the first King of the Belgians. The National Congress appointed him king on 4 June and six weeks later he was sworn in by swearing allegiance to the Belgian constitution in front of the Saint Jacques Church on Coudenberg in Brussels. This day (21 July) has since been the National holiday for Belgium.\n\nThe Constitution of 1831, which was very progressive for its time, was accepted on 7 February 1831. The Provisional Government was subsequently dismantled. The National Congress itself remained in place until the official elections of a first Parliament on 29 August 1831. A monument in Brussels, the Congress Column, was erected in its honour. On the base of the Congress-column, there are four bronze statues that represent the four basic freedoms enshrined in the Constitution of 1831: freedom of religion, association, education and the press.\n\nThese four basic freedoms are also reflected in the streets of Brussels. There are four streets that lead to the \"Place de la Liberté/Vrijheidsplein\" (Freedom Square): the \"Rue des Cultes/Eredienststraat\" (Religion Street), the \"Rue de l'Association/Verenigingsstraat\" (Association Street), the \"Rue de l'Enseignement/Onderrichtstraat\" (Education Street) and the \"Rue de la Presse/Drukpersstraat\" (Press Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "2809507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2809507", "title": "Parole (United States immigration)", "text": "Parole (United States immigration)\n\nParole in the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of the United States generally refers to any alien who is under the supervision of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Any alien who is inadmissible to the United States may apply for advance parole (Form I-131), which is also known as \"humanitarian parole,\" and when granted allows the alien to stay in the country until the document expires. Humanitarian parole is granted only in exceptional circumstances and on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the DHS.\n\nThe DHS has published a new rule, effective July 17, 2017, which adds new provisions regarding the use of parole on a case-by-case basis with respect to entrepreneurs of start-up entities who demonstrate that they will provide a significant public benefit to the United States.\n"}
{"id": "1884943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884943", "title": "Peter Qasim", "text": "Peter Qasim\n\nPeter Qasim () was the longest-serving detainee in Australian immigration detention, having been detained there for over seven years. He had not been deported because he was stateless. He was detained at Baxter Immigration Reception and Processing Centre before being transferred to an Adelaide psychiatric facility.\n\nHe had applied to over 80 countries for asylum, but had not been accepted. This includes India, which claims sovereignty over Kashmir, from where Qasim originates.\n\nIn personal accounts Qasim described escaping from his home village of Gopalla in India, into Pakistan, then through Singapore and Papua New Guinea onto Australia. Qasim's provenance, however, proved difficult to verify due to a lack of supporting documentation or witnesses. This lack of evidence, and numerous unsuccessful attempts to validate Qasim's story were primarily responsible for his prolonged period of detention.\n\nHis case has been publicised by the well-known Australian entrepreneur Dick Smith. Australian authorities have maintained that he has not proven his nationality. He was invited to apply for a new visa on 20 June 2005. In 2005, Qasim was 31 years old, and was held at Baxter Detention Centre until, on 9 June 2005, he was moved to a psychiatric hospital. He received treatment for depression.\n\nOn 16 July 2005 Qasim was granted a bridging visa by the Australian government. The visa granted permission to work and to receive welfare benefits. He spent a total of six years and 10 months in detention.\n\nHe is still holding a bridging (return pending visa) visa as of September 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "36994779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36994779", "title": "Ruddy-headed Goose Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Ruddy-headed Goose Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) concerning Conservation Measures for the Ruddy-headed Goose is a Bilateral Environmental Memorandum of Understanding between Argentina and Chile and was concluded under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention. The MoU was concluded as part of the Special Protocol on the Conservation of Wild Fauna and Flora, signed by Argentina and Chile in 2002, and entered into effect on 21 November 2006. It focuses on the protection of the mainland population of the ruddy-headed goose. The MoU is exclusively South American and covers two range States (Argentine Republic and the Republic of Chile), both of which have signed.\n\nTo implement the decision of the Conference of the Parties of CMS to list the ruddy-headed goose (\"Chloephaga rubidiceps\") on Appendix I and II of the Convention as a consequence of its endangered status and the conviction that conservation efforts of this species are dependent on collaboration between the two range States, an Article IV agreement was concluded and entered into effect on 21 November 2006.\n\nSignatories to the Ruddy-headed Goose MoU:\n\nThe continental population of the ruddy-headed goose is migratory and is in imminent danger of extinction because of the small size of its population, its restricted area of distribution, and the numerous threats which it faces in its breeding grounds in the continental area of the Magallanes Region (Chile), in the north of the Tierra de Fuego (Argentina and Chile) and in the wintering grounds in the South of Buenos Aires province (Argentina). Therefore, the MoU aims to safeguard the mainland population of this species, which is in serious danger of extinction with an estimated size at around 900-1,000 individuals.\n\nThere are two populations of the ruddy-headed goose. The sedentary population is confined to the Falkland Islands/Islas Malvinas while the mainland one migrates between its breeding grounds in southern Patagonia of Chile and Argentina and its wintering quarters in southern Buenos Aires province, Argentina. The MoU protects only the mainland South American population of the ruddy-headed goose.\n\nThe ruddy-headed goose, which is the smallest austral goose inhabiting South America, faces several threats such as predation by the South American gray fox, illegal hunting and habitat degradation. Furthermore, the ruddy-headed goose tends to congregate with other species considered pests by farmers and so it has been persecuted in the past, especially in the wintering grounds in the South of Buenos Aires province.\n\nConscious of the need to take immediate and concerted measures to prevent the extinction of the continental population of the species, both range States agree to:\n\nThe MoU became effective on 21 November 2006 and is valid for a duration of three years, renewable automatically for a similar term unless one of the two signatories gives three months’ prior written notice to the other of its decision to terminate it.\n\nIn November 2010, a workshop on the conservation of the declining ruddy-headed goose took place in Punta Arenas, Chile. The workshop reviewed the implementation of the MoU in the two countries and revised the bilateral Action Plan. During the workshop, the Action Plan, drawn up in 2009, was revised. The Action Plan provides a road map to guide the implementation of conservation action for the ruddy-headed goose in both countries.\n\nThe secretariat functions are provided by the signatories on a rotational base. The CMS Secretariat only acts as depositary to the MoU.\n\nSeveral activities have been undertaken in Chile including hunting controls and other protection measures in breeding areas. In Argentina, activities take place in the framework of a national strategy for the conservation and management of the ruddy-headed goose, ashy-headed goose and the upland goose; and these include an education programme and a monitoring programme in the wintering areas. New regulations approved in Argentina in May 2011 prohibit hunting, capture and trade in respect of five goose species including the ruddy-headed goose.\n\nWetlands Internationals, CMS and the Dirección de Fauna Silvestre produced a leaflet entitled “El Cauquén colorado – una especie en peligro de extinction” (the ruddy-headed goose – a species in danger of extinction).\n\nDespite a decreasing trend in the density of individuals, the co-organization and participation in workshops and the development of a National Conservation Plan for the species successfully increased cooperation between the MoU’s signatories. Also, close work with farmers, government officers and other local stakeholders was vital in reducing the persecution and hunting of the species. Furthermore, the reactivation of a ruddy-headed goose forum, the participation in TV and radio interviews, the printing of brochures and books on the species significantly raised the awareness of the locals of the importance of the RHG in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "872847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872847", "title": "SCO–Linux disputes", "text": "SCO–Linux disputes\n\nThe SCO–Linux disputes are a series of legal and public disputes between the software company SCO Group (SCO) and various Linux vendors and users. The SCO Group alleges that its license agreements with IBM means that source code that IBM wrote and donated to be incorporated into Linux was added in violation of SCO's contractual rights. Members of the Linux community disagree with SCO's claims; IBM, Novell and Red Hat have ongoing claims against SCO.\n\nOn August 10, 2007, a federal district court judge in \"SCO v. Novell\" ruled on summary judgment that Novell, not the SCO Group, is the rightful owner of the copyrights covering the Unix operating system. The court also ruled that \"SCO is obligated to recognize Novell's waiver of SCO's claims against IBM and Sequent\". After the ruling Novell announced they have no interest in suing people over Unix and stated \"We don't believe there is Unix in Linux\". The final district court ruling, on November 20, 2008, affirmed the summary judgment, and added interest and a constructive trust.\n\nOn August 24, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit partially reversed the district court judgment. The appeals court remanded back to trial on the issues of copyright ownership and Novell's contractual waiver rights. The court upheld the $2,547,817 award granted to Novell for the 2003 Sun agreement.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, following a jury trial, Novell, and not The SCO Group, was unanimously found to be the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights. The SCO Group, through bankruptcy trustee Edward Cahn, has decided to continue the lawsuit against IBM for causing a decline in SCO revenues.\n\nOn March 1, 2016, SCO's lawsuit against IBM was dismissed with prejudice; SCO then filed an appeal later that month.\n\nUnix is a major computer operating system, developed in the United States of America. Prior to the events of this case, the intellectual property rights (IP) in Unix were held by Unix System Laboratories (USL), part of AT&T, but the area of IP ownership was complex. By 2003, the rights in Unix had been transferred several times and there was dispute as to the correct owner in law. Also some of the code within Unix had been written prior to the Copyright Act of 1976, or was developed by third parties, or was developed or licensed under different licenses existing at the time. The software company SCO Group (SCO), formerly Caldera International, asserted in 2003 that it was the owner of Unix, and that other unix-type operating systems - particularly the free operating system Linux and other variants of Unix sold by competitor companies - were violating their intellectual property by using Unix code without a license in their works.\n\nSCO initially claimed, and tried to assert, a legal means to litigate directly against all end-users of these operating systems as well as the companies or groups providing them - potentially a very substantial case and one that would throw fear into the market about using them. However it was unable to formulate such a case, since the Unix copyrights were weakly worded, there was no basis in patent law, and breach of trade secrets would only affect the one or few companies who might have been alleged to have disclosed trade secrets. Lacking grounds to sue all users generally, SCO dropped this aspect of its cases.\n\nThe assertions were heavily contested. Claims of SCO's own copyright violations of these other systems were raised, along with claims related to SCO being bound by, or violating, the GPL licence, under which SCO conducted business related to these systems. Claims were also made that the case was substantially financed and promoted by Microsoft and investment businesses with links to Microsoft; around that time (1998 - 2004 onwards) Microsoft was fiercely engaged in various FUD tactics such as its \"Get the facts\" campaign, that sought to undermine or discredit Linux as a possible competitor to its own Windows operating systems and server systems.\n\nIn the end, SCO launched only a few main legal cases - against IBM for improper disclosure and breach of copyright related to its AIX operating system, against Novell for interference (clouding the issue of ownership), against DaimlerChrysler for non-compliance with a demand to certify certain matters related to Unix usage, and against Linux business and former client AutoZone for violating SCO's rights by using Linux. Separately, the Linux company Red Hat also filed a legal claim against SCO for making false claims that affected its (Red Hat's) business, and to seek a court declaration that SCO had no ownership rights in Linux code.\n\nIn 2007, a court ruled in \"SCO v. Novell\" that Novell and not SCO was the owner of the Unix copyrights. , most of these cases have been resolved, or largely resolved, and none of the rulings have been in SCO's favor.\n\nAt the beginning of 2003, SCO claimed that there had been \"misappropriation of its UNIX System V code into Linux\". However, the company refused to identify the specific segments of code, claiming that it was a secret which they would reveal only to the court. They did say that the code could be found in the SMP, RCU and a few other parts of the Linux kernel.\n\nOn 6 March 2003 they announced that they were suing IBM for $1 billion, claiming that IBM transferred SCO trade secrets into Linux. That amount later rose to $3 billion, and then again to $5 billion.\n\nSome educated parties note that the \"USL v. BSDi\" case had shown that the Unix copyrights are weak and unenforceable. SCO has not claimed patent infringement, as according to the US Patent and Trademark Office database, no AT&T or Novell patent was ever assigned to SCO. The UNIX trademark was not owned by SCO. That left arguing over trade secrets, which after some opposition, was hard to take beyond a breach of contract between SCO and IBM, and consequentially a claim only against IBM. SCO was looking for something directed at the greater Linux community, and has since explicitly dropped all trade secret claims from their case.\n\nSCO now had little legal ground at this point and therefore began numerous legal claims and threats against many of the major names in the computer industry, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Novell, Silicon Graphics, Sun Microsystems and Red Hat.\n\nBy mid-2004, five major lawsuits had been filed:\n\n\nIn cases SCO publicly implied that a number of other parties have committed copyright infringement, including not only Linux developers but also Linux users.\n\nSCO's claims are derived from several contracts that may have transferred UNIX System V Release 4 intellectual property assets. The UNIX IP rights originated with Unix System Laboratories (USL), a division of AT&T. In 1993, USL sold all UNIX rights and assets to Novell, including copyrights, trademarks, and active licensing contracts. Some of these rights and assets, plus additional assets derived from Novell's development work, were then sold to the Santa Cruz Operation in 1995. The Santa Cruz Operation had developed and was selling a PC-based UNIX until 2000, when it then resold its UNIX assets to Caldera Systems, which later reorganized into Caldera International and changed its name to SCO Group.\n\nThrough this chain of sales, SCO claims to be the \"owner of UNIX\". The validity of these claims is hotly contested by others. SCO claims copyright to all UNIX code developed by USL, referred to as SVRx, and licensing contracts originating with AT&T, saying that these are inherited through the same chain of sales. The primary document SCO presents as evidence of these claims is the \"Asset Purchase Agreement\", defining the sale between Novell and the Santa Cruz Operation. SCO says that this includes all copyrights to the UNIX code base and contractual rights to the licensing base. The other parties disagree.\n\nThe status of copyrights from USL is murky, since UNIX code is a compilation of elements with different copyright histories. Some code was released without copyright notice before the Copyright Act of 1976 made copyright automatic. This code may be in the public domain and not subject to copyright claims. Other code is affected by the \"USL v. BSDi\" case, and is covered by the BSD License.\n\nGroklaw uncovered an old settlement made between Unix System Laboratories (USL) and The University of California in the case of USL v. BSDi. This settlement ended a copyright infringement suit against the University for making BSD source code freely available that USL felt infringed their copyrights. The university filed a counter suit, saying that USL had taken BSD source code and put it in UNIX without properly acknowledging the university's copyright. This settlement muddies the question of SCO's ownership of major parts of the UNIX source code. This uncertainty is particularly significant in regard to SCO's claims against Linux, which uses some BSD code.\n\nNovell challenges SCO's interpretation of the purchase agreement. In response to a letter SCO sent to 1500 companies on May 12, 2003, Novell exchanged a series of letters with SCO beginning in May 2003, claiming that the copyrights for the core UNIX System V were not included in the asset purchase agreement and are retained by Novell. In October 2003, Novell registered those copyrights with the US Copyright Office.\n\nIn response to these challenges from Novell, SCO filed a \"slander of title\" suit against Novell, \"SCO v. Novell\". This claimed that Novell was interfering with their business activities by clouding the ownership of UNIX copyrights. SCO's claim for special damages was dismissed on June 9, 2004 for \"failure to specifically plead special damages.\" However, SCO was given 30 days \"to amend its complaint to more specifically plead special damages\". In the same ruling, the judge stated that it was questionable whether or not the Asset Purchase Agreement transferred the relevant copyrights, reasoning that the ASA amendment by which SCO was claiming to have acquired those rights contained no transfer language in the form of \"seller hereby conveys to buyer\" and that it used ambiguous language when it came to the question of when and how and which rights were to be transferred.\n\nSCO filed an amended complaint. In late July, 2005, Novell filed an answer to SCO's complaint, denying all of its accusations. Novell also filed its own Slander of Title counter-lawsuit against SCO. Novell has also filed claims for numerous breaches of the APA (Asset Purchase Agreement) between Novell and the Santa Cruz Operation. Under the APA, Santa Cruz (and later SCO after SCO purchased Santa Cruz Operation's Unix Business) was given the right to market and sell Unixware as a product, retaining 100% of all revenues. Santa Cruz Operation (and later SCO) also was given the responsibility of administering Unix SVR4 license agreements on behalf of Novell. When money was paid for licensing, SCO was to turn over 100% of the revenue to Novell, and then Novell would return 5% as an Administration Fee. Novell claims that SCO signed Unix SVR4 licensing agreements with Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, as well as with numerous Linux End Users for Unix IP allegedly in the Linux Kernel, and then refused to turn the money over to Novell. Novell is suing for 100% of the revenue, claiming SCO is not entitled to the 5% administration fee since they breached their contract with Novell. Novell's counterclaims proposed asking the court to put appropriate funds from SCO into escrow until the case is resolved, since SCO's cash is diminishing quickly.\n\nNovell also retained the right to audit SCO's Unix Licensing Business under the APA. Novell claims that SCO has not turned over vital information about the Microsoft, Sun, and Linux End User License Agreements, despite repeated demands by Novell for them to do so. Novell, in another claim that is part of their counter suit, is asking the court to compel SCO to allow Novell to perform this audit of SCO's Unix Business.\n\nOn August 10, 2007 Judge Dale Kimball, hearing the SCO v. Novell case, ruled that \"...the court concludes that Novell is the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare Copyrights\".\n\nThe Novell to Santa Cruz Operation Asset Purchase Agreement also involved the administration of some 6000 standing licensing agreements between various UNIX users and the previous owners. These licensees include universities, software corporations and computer hardware companies. SCO's claimed ownership of the licenses has become an issue in three aspects of the SCO–Linux controversies. The first was the cancellation of IBM's license, the second was SCO's complaint against DaimlerChrysler (see \"SCO v. DaimlerChrysler\"), and the third is the derivative works claim of the \"SCO v. IBM\" case.\n\nIn May 2003, SCO canceled IBM's SVRx license to its version of UNIX, AIX. This was based on SCO's claim of unrestricted ownership of the System V licensing contracts inherited from USL. IBM ignored the license cancellation, claiming that an amendment to the original license made it \"irrevocable.\" In addition, as part of the Purchase Agreement, Novell retained certain rights of control over the administration of the licenses which were sold, including rights to act on SCO's behalf in some cases. Novell exercised one of these rights by revoking SCO's cancellation of the IBM license. SCO disputed the validity of both of these actions, and amended its \"SCO v. IBM\" complaint to include copyright infringement, based on IBM's continued sale and use of AIX without a valid SVRx license.\n\nIn December 2003, SCO demanded that all UNIX licensees certify some items, some related to the use of Linux, that were not provided for in the license agreement language. Since DaimlerChrysler failed to respond, SCO filed the \"SCO v. DaimlerChrysler\" suit in March 2004. All claims related to the certification demands were summarily dismissed by the court.\n\nThe third issue based on the UNIX licensees agreement is related to SCO's claims of control of derivative works.\n\nMany UNIX licensees have added features to the core UNIX SVRx system and those new features contain computer code not in the original SVRx code base. In most cases, software copyright is owned by the person or company that develops the code. SCO, however, claims that the original licensing agreements define this new code as a derivative work. They also claim that they have the right to control and restrict the use and distribution of that new code.\n\nThese claims are the basis of \"SCO v. IBM\". SCO's initial complaint, said that IBM violated the original licensing agreement by not maintaining confidentiality with the new code, developed and copyrighted by IBM, and releasing it to the Linux project.\n\nIBM claims that the license agreement (noted in the $Echo newsletter of April 1985) and subsequent licenses defines derivative works as the developer's property. This leaves IBM free to do as it wishes with its new code. In August 2004, IBM filed a motion for partial summary judgment. The motion stated that IBM has the right to do as it wishes with software not part of the original SVRx code. In February 2005, the motion was dismissed as premature, because discovery was not yet complete. IBM refiled this motion along with other summary judgment motions as noted below in September 2006.\n\nSCO claims that Linux infringes SCO's copyright, trade secrets, and contractual rights. This claim is fundamental to the SCOsource program, where SCO has demanded that Linux users obtain licenses from SCOsource to be properly licensed to use the code in question. Exactly which parts of Linux are involved remains unclear as many of their claims are still under seal in the \"SCO v. IBM\" lawsuit.\n\nSCO originally claimed in \"SCO v. IBM\" that IBM had violated trade secrets. But these alleged violations by IBM would not have involved Linux distributors or end users. SCO's trade secret claims were dropped by SCO in their amended complaint.\n\nSCO also claimed line-for-line literal copying of code from UNIX code files to Linux kernel files and obfuscated copying of code, but originally refused to publicly identify which code was in violation. SCO submitted to the court evidence of their claims under seal but much of it was excluded from the case after it was challenged by IBM as not meeting the specificity requirements to be included.\n\nThese examples have fallen into two groups. The first are segments of files or whole files alleged to originate in UNIX SVRx code such as the errno.h header file. The second group are files and materials contributed by IBM that originated with IBM development work associated with AIX and Dynix, IBM's two UNIX products.\n\nEach of these has a different set of issues. In order for copyright to be violated, several conditions must be met. First, the claimant must be able to show that they own the copyrights for the material in question. Second, all or a significant part of the source must be present in the infringing material. There must be enough similarity to show direct copying of material.\n\nThe issue of ownership of the SVRx code base was discussed above. Besides the unresolved issue of what was actually transferred from Novell to Santa Cruz Operation, there are also the portions of the SVRx code base that are covered by BSD copyrights or that are in the public domain.\n\nSCO's first public disclosure of what they claim is infringing code was at SCO Forum in August 2003. The first, known as the Berkeley Packet Filter, was distributed under the BSD License and is freely usable by anyone. The second example was related to memory allocation functions, also released under the BSD License. It is no longer in the Linux code base.\n\nSCO has also claimed that code related to application programming interfaces was copied from UNIX. However, this code and the underlying standards they describe are in the public domain and are also covered by rights USL sold to The Open Group. A later claim was made to code segments related to ELF file format standards. This material was developed by the Tool Interface Standard (TIS) Committee and placed in the public domain. SCO claims that the TIS Committee had no authority to place ELF in the public domain, even though SCO's predecessor in interest was a member of the committee.\n\nSCO has claimed that some are violating UNIX SVRx copyrights by putting UNIX code into Linux. They may or may not have brought this claim directly in any of their cases. The IBM case is about derivative works, not SVRx code (see below). The Novell case is about copyright ownership. DaimlerChrysler was about contractual compliance statements.\n\nThe \"may or may not\" comes from AutoZone's case. In AutoZone, SCO's complaint claimed damages for AutoZone's use of Linux. However, when objecting to AutoZone's request for a stay pending the IBM case, SCO apparently contradicted their written complaint, claiming that the case was entirely about AutoZone copying certain libraries (outside the Linux kernel) from a UNIX system to a Linux-based system to facilitate moving an internal application to the Linux platform faster; SCO's original complaint does not appear to mention these libraries. AutoZone denies having done this with UNIX libraries. If SCO's oral description of their case is the correct one, then their AutoZone claim has nothing to do with the Linux kernel or the actions of any distributors.\n\nThe copyright issue is addressed directly in two of the cases. The first is by IBM in their counterclaim in \"SCO v. IBM\". The issue is central to a pending motion by IBM, stating that IBM violated no copyrights in its Linux related activities. It is also addressed by Red Hat in the Red Hat v. SCO case. Red Hat claims that SCO's statements about infringement in Linux are unproven and untrue, damaging to them and violates the Lanham Act. Red Hat asks for an injunction to stop claims of violations without proof. They also ask for a judgment that they violated no SCO copyrights. A hearing on the IBM motion was held on September 15, 2004. Judge Kimball took the motion under advisement. The Red Hat case is on hold.\n\n\"EWeek\" has reported allegations that SCO may have copied parts of the Linux kernel into SCO UNIX as part of its Linux Kernel Personality feature. If true, this would mean that SCO is guilty of a breach of the Linux kernel copyrights. SCO has denied this allegation, but according to Groklaw, one SCO employee confirmed it in a deposition.\n\nSCO has claimed a number of instances of IBM Linux code as breaches of contract. These examples include code related to Symmetric multiprocessing (SMP), Journaled File System (JFS), Read-copy-update (RCU) and Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA). This code is questionably in the Linux kernel, and may have been added by IBM through the normal kernel submission process. This code was developed and copyrighted by IBM. IBM added features to AIX and Dynix.\n\nSCO claims that they have \"control rights\" to this due to their licensing agreements with IBM. SCO disavows claiming that they own the code IBM wrote, rather comparing their \"control rights\" to an easement, rights which allow them to prohibit IBM from publicizing the code they wrote, even though IBM owns the copyrights. They base this claim on language in the original license agreement that requires non-disclosure of the code and claim that all code developed by UNIX licensees that is used with the code under license be held in confidence. This claim is discussed above at Control of derivative works.\n\nBefore changing their name to the SCO Group, the company was known as Caldera International.\n\nCaldera was one of the major distributors of Linux between 1994 and 1998. In August 1998, the company split into Caldera Systems and Caldera Thin Clients, with Caldera Systems taking over the Linux systems business and Caldera Thin Clients concentrating on the Thin Clients and embedded business. The parent and shell company Caldera, Inc. ceased to exist in 2000 after a settlement with Microsoft in the Caldera v. Microsoft lawsuit.\n\nCaldera Systems was reorganized to become Caldera International in 2001, the company, which was renamed to The SCO Group in 2002.\n\nSome, like Eben Moglen, have suggested that because Caldera distributed the allegedly infringing code under the GNU General Public License, or GPL, that this act would license any proprietary code in Linux.\n\nSCO has stated that they did not know their own code was in Linux, so releasing it under the GPL does not count. However, as late as July and August 2006, long after that claim was made, they were still distributing ELF files (the subject of one of SCO's claims regarding SVRx) under the GPL.\n\nSCO has also claimed, in early stages of the litigation, that the GPL is invalid and non-binding and legally unenforceable. In response, supporters of the GPL, such as Eben Moglen, claimed that SCO's right to distribute Linux relied upon the GPL being a valid copyright license. Later court filings by the SCO Group in \"SCO v. IBM\" use SCO's alleged compliance with the license as a defense to IBM's counterclaims.\n\nThe GPL has become an issue in \"SCO v. IBM\". Under U.S. copyright law, distribution of creative works whose copyright is owned by another party is illegal without permission from the copyright owner, usually in the form of a license; the GPL is such a license, and thus allows distribution, but only under limited conditions. Since IBM released the relevant code under the terms of the GPL, it claims that the only permission that SCO has to copy and distribute IBM's code in Linux is under the terms and conditions of the GPL, one of which requires the distributor to \"accept\" the GPL. IBM says that SCO violated the GPL by denouncing the GPL's validity, and by claiming that the GPL violates the U.S. Constitution, together with copyright, antitrust and export control laws. IBM also claims that SCO's SCOsource program is incompatible with the requirement that redistributions of GPLed works must be free of copyright licensing fees (fees may be charged for the acts of duplication and support). IBM has brought counterclaims alleging that SCO has violated the GPL and breached IBM's copyrights by collecting licensing fees while distributing IBM's copyrighted material.\n\nOn March 7, 2003, SCO filed suit against IBM. Initially this lawsuit was about breach of contract and trade secrets. Later, SCO dropped the trade secrets claim, so the claim is breach of contract. SCO also added a copyright claim related to IBM's continued use of AIX, but not related to Linux. The judge subsequently stated that the SCO Group had indeed made a claim of copyright infringement against IBM regarding Linux. IBM filed multiple counter claims, including charges of both patent violations, which were later dropped, and violation of copyright law.\n\nOn February 8, 2005, Judge Kimball ruled that IBM's motions for summary judgment were premature but added:\nViewed against the backdrop of SCO's plethora of public statements concerning IBM's and others' infringement of SCO's purported copyrights to the UNIX software, it is astonishing that SCO has not offered any competent evidence to create a disputed fact regarding whether IBM has infringed SCO's alleged copyrights through IBM's Linux activities.\n\nOn June 28, 2006 Judge Brooke Wells granted, in part, IBM's motion to limit SCO's claims and excluded 186 of SCO's 294 items of allegedly misused intellectual property (IBM had challenged 201 of them for various reasons). Wells cited a number of factors including SCO's inability to provide sufficient specificity in these claims:\nIn December 2003, near the beginning of this case, the court ordered SCO to, \"identify and state with specificity the source code(s) that SCO is claiming forms the basis of their action against IBM.\" Even if SCO lacked the code behind methods and concepts at this early stage, SCO could have and should have, at least articulated which methods and concepts formed \"the basis of their action against IBM.\" At a minimum, SCO should have identified the code behind their method and concepts in the final submission pursuant to this original order entered in December 2003 and Judge Kimball’s order entered in July 2005.\n\nThis left about 100 of SCO's items of allegedly misused intellectual property (the merits of which have not yet been judged), out of 294 items originally disclosed by SCO.\n\nFollowing the partial summary judgment rulings in the SCO vs Novell Slander of Title case, Judge Kimball asked the parties in SCO v IBM to prepare by August 31, 2007, a statement of the status of this case.\n\nRed Hat filed suit against SCO on August 4, 2003. Red Hat sued SCO for false advertising, deceptive trade practices and asked for a declaratory judgment of noninfringement of any of SCO's copyrights. This case has been stayed pending resolution of the IBM case.\n\nAfter SCO initiated their Linux campaign, they said that they were the owners of UNIX. Novell claimed these statements were false, and that they still owned the rights in question. After Novell registered the copyrights to some key UNIX products, SCO filed suit against Novell on January 20, 2004. Novell removed the suit to federal court on February 6, 2004.\n\nOn July 29, 2005, Novell filed its answer with the court, denying SCO's claims. Novell also filed counterclaims asking the court to force SCO to turn over the revenues it had received from UNIX licenses, less a 5% administrative fee. Additionally, Novell asked the court to place the funds in a \"constructive trust\" in order to ensure that SCO could pay Novell since the company's assets were depleting rapidly.\n\nOn August 10, 2007, Judge Dale Kimball, hearing the SCO v. Novell case, ruled that \"...the court concludes that Novell is the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare Copyrights\". Novell was awarded summary judgments on a number of claims, and a number of SCO claims were denied. SCO was instructed to account for and pass to Novell an appropriate portion of income relating to SCOSource licences to Sun Microsystems and Microsoft. A number of matters are not disposed of by Judge Kimball's ruling, and the outcome of these are still pending.\n\nOn July 16, 2008, the trial court issued an order awarding Novell $2,547,817 and ruled that SCO was not authorized to enter into the 2003 agreement with Sun. On November 20, 2008, final judgment in the case affirmed the August 10 ruling, and added interest of $918,122 plus $489 per diem after August 29, 2008, along with a constructive trust of $625,486.90.\n\nOn August 24, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit partially reversed the August 10, 2007 district court summary judgment ruling. The appeals court remanded back to trial on the issues of copyright ownership and Novell's contractual waiver rights. The court upheld the $2,547,817 award granted to Novell for the 2003 Sun agreement. On March 30, 2010, after a three-week trial before Judge Ted Stewart, a jury returned a verdict \"confirming Novell's ownership of the Unix copyrights.\"\n\nOn June 10, 2010, Judge Ted Stewart denied SCO's motion for another trial and ruled for Novell on all remaining issues.\n\nOn July 7, 2010, SCO appealed the new judgments to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.\n\nOn August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court ruling in its entirety, rejecting SCO's attempt to re-argue the case before the Court of Appeals.\n\nAutoZone, a corporate user of Linux and former user of SCO OpenServer, was sued by SCO on March 3, 2004. SCO claims AutoZone violated SCO's copyrights by using Linux. The suit was stayed pending the resolution of the IBM, Red Hat and Novell cases.\n\nOn September 26, 2008, Judge Robert C. Jones lifted the stay, effective December 31, 2008. He initially scheduled discovery for April 9, 2010. SCO filed an amended complaint on August 14, 2009. On August 31, 2009, AutoZone replied, and filed a motion to dismiss in part.\n\nOn October 22, 2009, Edward Cahn, SCO's Chapter 11 trustee, sought bankruptcy court approval for an agreement he reached with AutoZone. According to the court filings, the confidential settlement resolves all claims between SCO and AutoZone.\n\nIn December 2003, SCO demanded that some UNIX licensees certify certain issues regarding their use of Linux. DaimlerChrysler, a former UNIX user and current Linux user, did not respond to this demand. On March 3, 2004 SCO filed suit against DaimlerChrysler for violating their UNIX license agreement by failing to respond to the certification request. Almost every claim SCO made has been ruled against in summary judgment. The last remaining issue, that of whether DaimlerChrysler made a timely response, was dismissed by agreement of SCO and DaimlerChrysler in December 2004. SCO retains the right to continue this case at a future date, providing it pays legal fees to DaimlerChrysler.\n\nOn June 23, 2003, SCO sent out a letter announcing that it would not be suing its own Linux customers. In the letter, it states:\n\nIn August 2003, SCO presented two examples of what they claimed was illegal copying of copyrighted code from UNIX to Linux. One of the examples (Berkeley Packet Filter) was not related to original UNIX code at all. The other example did, however, seem to originate from the UNIX code and was apparently contributed by a UNIX vendor, Silicon Graphics. However, an analysis by the Linux community later revealed that:\n\n\nIn October 2003, BayStar Capital and Royal Bank of Canada invested US$50 million in The SCO Group to support the legal cost of SCO's Linux campaign. Later it was shown that BayStar was referred to SCO by Microsoft, whose proprietary Windows operating system competes with Linux. In 2003, BayStar looked at SCO on the recommendation of Microsoft, according to Lawrence R. Goldfarb, managing partner of BayStar Capital: \"It was evident that Microsoft had an agenda\".\n\nOn April 22, 2004, \"The New York Times\" reported that BayStar Capital, a private hedge fund which had arranged for $50M in funding for SCO in October 2003, was asking for its $20M back. The remainder of the $50M was from Royal Bank of Canada. SCO stated in their press release that they believed that BayStar did not have grounds for making this demand.\n\nOn August 27, 2004, SCO and BayStar resolved their dispute.\n\nThe Canopy Group is an investment group with shares in a trust of different companies. It is a group owned by the Noorda family, also founders of Novell.\n\nUntil February 2005, Canopy held SCO shares, and the management of SCO held shares of Canopy. The two parties became embroiled in a bitter dispute when the Noorda family sought to oust board member Ralph Yarro III on claims of misappropriation. With internal problems not made public (which included the suicides of Canopy's director of information systems, Robert Penrose, and Val Kriedel, the daughter of Ray Noorda), the Canopy Group agreed to buy back all the shares that SCO had in Canopy in exchange for their SCO shares and cash.\n\nSCO and Canopy Group are now mostly independent, though SCO continues to rent their Utah office space from Canopy.\n\nOn March 4, 2004, a leaked SCO internal e-mail detailed how Microsoft had raised up to $106 million via the BayStar referral and other means. Blake Stowell of SCO confirmed the memo was real. BayStar claimed the deal was suggested by Microsoft, but that no money for it came directly from them.\nIn addition to the Baystar involvement, Microsoft paid SCO $6M (USD) in May 2003 for a license to \"Unix and Unix-related patents\", despite the lack of Unix-related patents owned by SCO.\nThis deal was widely seen in the press as a boost to SCO's finances which would help SCO with its lawsuit against IBM.\n\nAfter their initial claim of copyright infringement in the Linux kernel, The SCO Group started their SCOsource initiative, which sells licenses of SCO's claimed copyrighted software, other than OpenServer and Unixware licenses. After a small number of high-profile sales (including one that was denied by the claimed purchaser), SCO claimed to offer corporate users of Linux a license at US$699 per processor running Linux. However, many individuals have found it impossible to buy such a license from SCO. SCO says that participants of the SCOsource initiative are not liable for any claims that SCO makes against Linux users.\n\nOn July 14, 2005, an email was unsealed that had been sent from Michael Davidson to Reg Broughton (both Caldera International employees) in 2002, before many of the lawsuits. In it, Davidson reported how the company had hired an outside consultant because \"(spelling as in the original)\":\nThe consultant was to review the Linux code and compare it to Unix source code, to find possible copyright infringement. Davidson himself said that he had not expected to find anything significant based on his own knowledge of the code and had voiced his opinion that it was \"a waste of time\". After 4 to 6 months of consultant's work, Davidson says: \"\"...we had found absolutely *nothing*. ie no evidence of any copyright infringement whatsoever.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3317535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3317535", "title": "Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project", "text": "Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project\n\nThe Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project, one of the Pacific Northwest Labor and Civil Rights History Projects, is dedicated to social movements and labor history in the Pacific Northwest. It is directed by Professor James N. Gregory of the University of Washington. The project represents a unique collaboration between community organizations and University faculty, as well as undergraduate and graduate students. It has become a model of public history across the US and has been credited with changing the discussion of race and civil rights in the Seattle area.\n\nThe site provides over 70 oral history interviews with short video excerpts and brief biographies, as well as a listing of historic Civil Rights organizations, a page on Seattle's ethnic press, a resource with lesson plans for teachers, films and slidewhows, and a page with in-depth historical essays that explore various issues, incidents and people. Each fully illustrated with photos and newspaper articles.\n\nAlso in the project is a special sections area featuring nine different sections which showcase comprehensive reports, oral histories, photo collections, and documents about many of the prominent movements and organizations involved in Seattle's rich history of Civil Rights and Labor activism. The sections detail farm workers in Washington State, the Ku Klux Klan in Washington, the Seattle Black Panther Party, Filipino Cannery Unions, the Washington Chicano movement, the 1907 Bellingham anti-Asian riots, the Congress of Racial Equality in Seattle, the Black Student Union at the University of Washington, and the United Construction Workers Association. A section on the history of housing segregation in Seattle attracted media attention and spurred changes in State law that allowed neighborhood associations to remove racially restrictive clauses from their covenants with greater ease.\n\nThe Project includes nine full lesson plans for middle school and high school students, ranging from single class periods to longer units, created by Washington educators. The lesson plans are designed to encourage critical thinking and fulfill State requirements. Examples include ‘Martin Luther King’s Controversial Visit to Seattle’ and ‘Document Based Question: School Segregation in Seattle.’\n\nThe Chicano/a Movement in Washington State History Project is a multimedia resource on the history of Chicano activism that includes first-hand oral histories, primary documents and academic research. It traces the development of the movement in the Yakima Valley and the University of Washington in Seattle. The Project is an initiative of the Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project at the University of Washington, alongside the Farm Workers in Washington State History Project.\n\nThe Project focuses on several organizations including United Mexican American Students (UMAS), the Brown Berets, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicana/o de Aztlan (MEChA), United Farmworker Cooperative, El Teatro del Piojo, El Centro de la Raza, the Concilio for Spanish Speaking, SEAMAR Community Health Centers, and radio station KDNA. The histories of these organizations are bolstered by video oral histories, photographs from several personal collections and digitized copies of pamphlets and other documents. An in-depth timeline covers the years 1960-1985, and an illustrated essay details the period from the coalescing of the movement in 1967 to the 2006 immigration mobilizations. In addition, the site contains a database of more than 300 digitized newspaper articles that originally appeared between 1968 and 1979. Like other sections of the Seattle Civil Rights and Labor History Project, the site contains model lesson plans for middle school and high school teachers using the available materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20715098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20715098", "title": "Six Clerks", "text": "Six Clerks\n\nThe Six Clerks’ Office was a public legal office that served the equitable jurisdiction of the English Court of Chancery in London, England, until the mid-19th century.\n\nThe Office was in Chancery Lane, near the Holborn end. The business of the office was to enrol commissions, pardons, patents, warrants, \"etc.\", that had passed the Great Seal in addition to other business in Chancery. In the early history of the Court of Chancery, the Six Clerks and their under-clerks appear to have acted as the attorneys of the suitors. As business increased, these under-clerks became a distinct body, and were recognized by the court under the denomination of sworn clerks, or clerks in court. The advance of commerce, with its consequent accession of wealth, so multiplied the subjects requiring the judgment of a Court of Equity, that the limits of a public office were found wholly inadequate to supply a sufficient number of officers to conduct the business of the suitors. Hence originated the \"Solicitors of the Court of Chancery.” The Office also facilitated Chancery claims by litigants \"in forma pauperis\" (impoverished), including children and those suffering from mental illness.\n\nThe “Six Clerks” were abolished by the Court of Chancery Act 1842 following the reforming work of Edwin Wilkins Field and Thomas Pemberton.\n\n"}
{"id": "31395974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31395974", "title": "Smart &amp; Biggar", "text": "Smart &amp; Biggar\n\nSmart & Biggar is a Canadian law firm specializing exclusively in intellectual property and technology law. The firm has offices in Ottawa, Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver and Calgary. It is related to the patent agency Fetherstonhaugh, and the two firms operate in unison through common partners, offices and personnel.\n\nSmart & Biggar/Fetherstonhaugh has over 110 intellectual property professionals across its five offices. It is the largest firm in Canada that specializes exclusively in intellectual property law.\n\nThe firm was founded in Toronto by Frederick Fetherstonhaugh in 1890 as a patent firm known as Fetherstonhaugh & Co. Fetherstonhaugh was a patent attorney from Mimico who was well known for having one of the first electrified homes in Toronto as well as owning the first electric car in Ontario, which was created by William Joseph Still in 1893. \n\nAn Ottawa office was established in 1895, and was joined by Russel S. Smart in 1904. Smart joined as a patent agent at the age of 19 with only a mechanical engineering degree from the University of Toronto, and he was later called to the Bar of Quebec in 1911 and to the Bar of Ontario in 1922. He was made a partner of the firm in 1913 with the patent agency then known as Fetherstonhaugh & Co., while the law firm was rebranded as Fetherstonhaugh & Smart.\n\nFetherstonhaugh was joined in 1923 by Harold G. Fox to create the patent agency Fetherstonhaugh & Fox in Toronto. In 1927, Oliver M. Biggar joined the partnership at the behest of Smart to form Smart & Biggar.\n\nOne of the best-known successes in the firm's early years came in the case of \"Lightning Fastener v. Colonial Fastener\", where Fox, along with Smart and Biggar, successfully represented Lightning Fastener Co. and Dr. Gideon Sundback in a patent infringement action for their patent on an early version of the zipper.\n\n"}
{"id": "7293427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7293427", "title": "Solar gain", "text": "Solar gain\n\nSolar gain (also known as solar heat gain or passive solar gain) refers to the increase in thermal energy of a space, object or structure as it absorbs incident solar radiation. The amount of solar gain a space experiences is a function of the total incident solar irradiance and of the ability of any intervening material to transmit or resist the radiation.\n\nObjects struck by sunlight absorb its visible and short-wave infrared components, increase in temperature, and then re-radiate that heat at longer infrared wavelengths. Though transparent building materials such as glass allow visible light to pass through almost unimpeded, once that light is converted to long-wave infrared radiation by materials indoors, it is unable to escape back through the window since glass is opaque to those longer wavelengths. The trapped heat thus causes solar gain via a phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect. In buildings, excessive solar gain can lead to overheating within a space, but it can also be used as a passive heating strategy when heat is desired.\n\nSolar gain is most frequently addressed in the design and selection of windows and doors. Because of this, the most common metrics for quantifying solar gain are used as a standard way of reporting the thermal properties of window assemblies. In the United States, The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and The National Fenestration Rating Council (NRFC) maintain standards for the calculation and measurement of these values.\n\nThe shading coefficient (SC) is a measure of the radiative thermal performance of a glass unit (panel or window) in a building. It is defined as the ratio of solar radiation at a given wavelength and angle of incidence passing through a glass unit to the radiation that would pass through a reference window of frameless Clear Float Glass. Since the quantities compared are functions of both wavelength and angle of incidence, the shading coefficient for a window assembly is typically reported for a single wavelength typical of solar radiation entering normal to the plane of glass. This quantity includes both energy that is transmitted directly through the glass as well as energy that is absorbed by the glass and frame and re-radiated into the space, and is given by the following equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nHere, λ is the wavelength of radiation and θ is the angle of incidence. \"T\" is the transmissivity of the glass, \"A\" is its absorptivity, and \"N\" is the fraction of absorbed energy that is re-emitted into the space. The overall shading coefficient is thus given by the ratio:\n\nformula_2\n\nThe shading coefficient depends on the radiation properties of the window assembly. These properties are the transmissivity \"T\" , absorptivity \"A\", emissivity (which is equal to the absorptivity for any given wavelength), and reflectivity all of which are dimensionless quantities that together sum to 1. Factors such as color, tint, and reflective coatings affect these properties, which is what prompted the development of the shading coefficient as a correction factor to account for this. ASHRAE’s table of solar heat gain factors provides the expected solar heat gain for ⅛” clear float glass at different latitudes, orientations, and times, which can be multiplied by the shading coefficient to correct for differences in radiation properties.\nThe value of the shading coefficient ranges from 0 to 1. The lower the rating, the less solar heat is transmitted through the glass, and the greater its shading ability.\n\nIn addition to glass properties, shading devices integrated into the window assembly are also included in the SC calculation. Such devices can reduce the shading coefficient by blocking portions of the glazing with opaque or translucent material, thus reducing the overall transmissivity.\n\nWindow design methods have moved away from the Shading Coefficient and towards the Solar Heat Gain Coefficient (SHGC), which is defined as the fraction of incident solar radiation that actually enters a building through the entire window assembly as heat gain (not just the glass portion). The standard method for calculating the SHGC also uses a more realistic wavelength-by-wavelength method, rather than just providing a coefficient for a single wavelength like the shading coefficient does. Though the shading coefficient is still mentioned in manufacturer product literature and some industry computer software, it is no longer mentioned as an option in industry-specific texts or model building codes. Aside from its inherent inaccuracies, another shortcoming of the SC is its counter-intuitive name, which suggests that high values equal high shading when in reality the opposite is true. Industry technical experts recognized the limitations of SC and pushed towards SHGC in the United States (and the analogous g-value in Europe) before the early 1990s.\n\nA conversion from SC to SHGC is not necessarily straightforward, as they each take into account different heat transfer mechanisms and paths (window assembly vs. glass-only). To perform an approximate conversion from SC to SHGC, multiply the SC value by 0.87.\n\nG-value (sometimes also called a Solar Factor or Total Solar Energy Transmittance) is the coefficient commonly used in Europe to measure the solar energy transmittance of windows. Despite having minor differences in modeling standards compared to the SHGC, the two values are effectively the same. A g-value of 1.0 represents full transmittance of all solar radiation while 0.0 represents a window with no solar energy transmittance. In practice though, most g-values will range between 0.2 and 0.7, with solar control glazing having a g-value of less than 0.5.\n\nSHGC is the successor to the shading coefficient used in the United States and it is the ratio of transmitted solar radiation to incident solar radiation of an entire window assembly. It ranges from 0 to 1 and refers to the solar energy transmittance of a window or door as a whole, factoring in the glass, frame material, sash (if present), divided lite bars (if present) and screens (if present). The transmittance of each component is calculated in a similar manner to the shading coefficient. However, in contrast to the shading coefficient, the total solar gain is calculated on a wavelength-by-wavelength basis where the directly\ntransmitted portion of the solar heat gain coefficient is given by:\n\nformula_3\n\nHere formula_4 is the spectral transmittance at a given wavelength in nanometers and formula_5 is the incident solar spectral irradiance. When integrated over the wavelengths of solar short-wave radiation, it yields the total fraction of transmitted solar energy across all solar wavelengths. The product formula_6 is thus the portion of absorbed and re-emitted energy across all assembly components beyond just the glass. It is important to note that the standard SHGC is calculated only for an angle of incidence normal to the window. However this tends to provide a good estimate over a wide range of angles, up to 30 degrees from normal in most cases.\n\nSHGC can either be estimated through simulation models or measured by recording the total heat flow through a window with a calorimeter chamber. In both cases, NFRC standards outline the procedure for the test procedure and calculation of the SHGC. For dynamic fenestration or operable shading, each possible state can be described by a different SHGC.\n\nThough the SHGC is more realistic than the SC, both are only rough approximations when they include complex elements such as shading devices, which offer more precise control over when fenestration is shaded from solar gain than glass treatments.\n\nApart from windows, walls and roofs also serve as pathways for solar gain. In these components heat transfer is entirely due to absorptance, conduction, and re-radiation since all transmittance is blocked in opaque materials. The primary metric in opaque components is the Solar Reflectance Index which accounts for both solar reflectance (albedo) and emittance of a surface. Materials with high SRI will reflect and emit a majority of heat energy, keeping them cooler than other exterior finishes. This is quite significant in the design of roofs since dark roofing materials can often be as much as 50 C° hotter than the surrounding air temperature, leading to large thermal stresses as well as heat transfer to interior space.\n\nSolar gain can have both positive or negative effects depending on the climate. In the context of passive solar building design, the aim of the designer is normally to maximize solar gain within the building in the winter (to reduce space heating demand), and to control it in summer (to minimize cooling requirements). Thermal mass may be used to even out the fluctuations during the day, and to some extent between days.\n\nUncontrolled solar gain is undesirable in hot climates due to its potential for overheating a space. To minimize this and reduce cooling loads, several technologies exist for solar gain reduction. SHGC is influenced by the color or tint of glass and its degree of reflectivity. Reflectivity can be modified through the application of reflective metal oxides to the surface of the glass. Low-emissivity coating is another more recently developed option that offers greater specificity in the wavelengths reflected and re-emitted. This allows glass to block mainly short-wave infrared radiation without greatly reducing visible transmittance.\n\nIn climate-responsive design for cold and mixed climates, windows are typically sized and positioned in order to provide solar heat gains during the heating season. To that end, glazing with a relatively high solar heat gain coefficient is often used so as not to block solar heat gains, especially in the sunny side of the house. SHGC also decreases with the number of glass panes used in a window. For example, in triple glazed windows, SHGC tends to be in the range of 0.33 - 0.47. For double glazed windows SHGC is more often in the range of 0.42 - 0.55.\n\nDifferent types of glass can be used to increase or to decrease solar heat gain through fenestration, but can also be more finely tuned by the proper orientation of windows and by the addition of shading devices such as overhangs, louvers, fins, porches, and other architectural shading elements.\n\nPassive solar heating is a design strategy that attempts to maximize the amount of solar gain in a building when additional heating is desired. It differs from active solar heating which uses exterior water tanks with pumps to absorb solar energy because passive solar systems do not require energy for pumping and store heat directly in structures and finishes of occupied space.\n\nIn direct solar gain systems, the composition and coating of the building glazing can also be manipulated to increase the greenhouse effect by optimizing their radiation properties, while their size, position, and shading can be used to optimize solar gain. Solar gain can also be transferred to the building by indirect or isolated solar gain systems.\n\nPassive solar designs typically employ large south facing windows with a high SHGC and overhangs that block sunlight in summer months and permit it to enter the window in the winter. When placed in the path of admitted sunlight, high thermal mass features such as concrete slabs or trombe walls store large amounts of solar radiation during the day and release it slowly into the space throughout the night. When designed properly, this can modulate temperature fluctuations. Some of the current research into this subject area is addressing the tradeoff between opaque thermal mass for storage and transparent glazing for collection through the use of transparent phase change materials that both admit light and store energy without the need for excessive weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "35797448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35797448", "title": "South African constitutional law", "text": "South African constitutional law\n\nSouth African constitutional law is the area of South African law relating to the interpretation and application of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa by the country's courts. All laws of South Africa must conform with the Constitution; any laws inconsistent with the Constitution have no force or effect.\n\nSouth Africa is generally considered to have had five constitutional documents since the Union was established in 1910, including the current one. The constitutions in chronological order are -\n\n\nThe Interim Constitution abolished South Africa's system of parliamentary sovereignty and replaced it with a dispensation wherein the Constitution is the supreme law, as opposed to the will of Parliament. The previous three constitutions were all subject to parliamentary amendment with, generally, a simple majority, therefore were not considered extraordinary statutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29618367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29618367", "title": "Superintendency of Industry and Commerce", "text": "Superintendency of Industry and Commerce\n\nThe Superintendency of Industry and Commerce () is a competitiveness regulatory agency of the Government of Colombia in charge of regulating fair business practices, promoting competitiveness and acting as the Colombian patent and registration office.\n"}
{"id": "35344421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35344421", "title": "Temporary class drug", "text": "Temporary class drug\n\nA temporary class drug is a relatively new status for controlled drugs, which has been adopted in some jurisdictions, notably New Zealand and the United Kingdom, to attempt to bring newly synthesised designer drugs under legal control. The controlled drug legislation in these jurisdictions requires drug scheduling decisions to follow an evidence-based process, where the harms of the drug are assessed and reviewed so that an appropriate legal status can be assigned. Since many designer drugs sold in recent years have had little or no published research that could help inform such a decision, they have been widely sold as \"legal highs\", often for months, before sufficient evidence accumulates to justify placing them on the controlled drug schedules. \n\nThis situation has been deemed to be undesirable, as every time a designer drug has been banned, novel compounds with similar effects have been quickly developed and brought to market, often with worse health consequences reported than the original compound. The temporary class drug status has been developed to circumvent the evidential requirements and allow drugs to be banned temporarily as soon as they are deemed by authorities to be causing harm to individuals or society. The temporary ban lasts for a period of 1 year, after which the drug would in theory be made legal again, if sufficient evidence to ban it permanently had not been forthcoming. During the period of the temporary ban, the temporary class drugs are treated equivalently to established illegal drugs, though with reduced or absent penalties for personal use amounts, and the main focus of enforcement being on importation and sale of the drugs.\n\nInitially, only the dissociative arylcyclohexylamine derivative methoxetamine was banned as a temporary class drug in the UK, effective from 5 April 2012. On 26 February 2013 methoxetamine was banned as a Class B drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act along with a large number of other arylcyclohexylamine derivatives under a 'catch-all' chemical structure clause. \"In an attempt to prevent legal high manufacturers looking for a new ketamine analogue to sell, the government has placed countless other ketamine analogues into Class B and Schedule 1.\"\n\nOn 10 June 2013, a total of 10 benzofuran and indole analogues and four NBOMe hallucinogens were classified as Temporary Class Drugs in the UK following an ACMD recommendation. Specifically these include 5-APB, 6-APB, 5-APDB, 6-APDB and their N-methyl derivatives 5-MAPB, 6-MAPB, 5-MAPDB and 6-MAPDB, as well as 5-IT and its isomer 6-IT, plus NBOMe-2C-C, NBOMe-2C-B, NBOMe-2C-I and NBOMe-2C-D. This means that sale and import of the named substances are criminal offences and are treated as for Class B drugs.\n\nOn 31 March 2015, five derivatives of methylphenidate were recommended to be banned in the UK as Temporary Class Drugs following their sale as uncontrolled stimulant drugs. The compounds listed for control were ethylphenidate, propylphenidate, isopropylphenidate, methylnaphthidate and 3,4-Dichloromethylphenidate.\n\nOn 25 June 2015, two more derivatives of methylphenidate, 4-Methylmethylphenidate and ethylnaphthidate, were recommended to be banned in the UK as Temporary Class Drugs following their sale as uncontrolled stimulant drugs. \n\nFollowing the ban on ethylphenidate authorities noticed that methiopropamine had replaced it as the stimulant of choice for injecting users. A TCDO was announced a week later and it was banned 48 hours after this.\n\nIn New Zealand, 35 drugs have been banned as temporary class drugs since August 2011, 24 of which have subsequently had the temporary ban renewed for a further year after reaching the end of the initial one-year ban period. These include; JWH-018, JWH-022, JWH-073, JWH-081, JWH-122, JWH-201, JWH-203, JWH-210, JWH-250, JWH-302, AM-694, AM-2201, RCS-4, RCS-4 butyl homologue, 2-methoxy isomer of RCS-4, and 2-methoxy isomer of RCS-4 butyl homologue, which were banned on 16 August 2011, JWH-019, JWH-200 and AM-1220, which were banned on 14 October 2011, AM-2233, banned on 29 December 2011, AM-1248, AM-2232 and UR-144, banned on 6 April 2012, and the stimulant methylhexanamine, banned on 9 April 2012. Another four cannabinoid compounds, namely CB-13, MAM-2201, AKB48 and XLR-11, were banned on 13 July 2012. A further cannabinoid compound NNE1 was banned from 8 November 2012. Two more cannabinoids APICA (also known as 2NE1) and its 5-fluoropentyl derivative STS-135 were banned from 22 November 2012. Another cannabinoid EAM-2201 was banned from 6 December 2012. Another stimulant, the phenyltropane derivative RTI-126, was banned from 27 December 2012. Two more cannabinoids QUCHIC (also known as BB-22) and 5F-AKB48 were banned from 9 May 2013.\n\nOn 18 July 2013, the Psychoactive Substances Act 2013 came into effect in New Zealand. This superseded the Temporary Class Drug scheme, as all novel psychoactive substances are restricted by default, except where specifically licensed. This Act promises to introduce strict toxicity testing and quality control standards for recreational psychoactive substances, with products that are proved to meet the safety criteria being allowed to be sold legally. Products that were on sale immediately prior to the introduction of the Act were allowed to continue to be on sale while the safety testing regime is implemented, but can be removed from sale if significant adverse events are reported. A number of interim licenses have been refused or revoked under this process, and by January 2014 a total of twelve more synthetic cannabis products had been removed from sale, containing ingredients such as ADB-CHMICA (SGT-7), 5F-PB-22, SGT-55 (CUMYL-BICA), SGT-56 (CUMYL-PICA), 4-F-AM-2201, 4-Cl-AM-2201 and PB-22. \n\nOn 27 April 2014 it was announced that all 41 remaining untested \"legal high\" products, which had been allowed to continue to be on sale during an interim period, were to be banned on 9 May 2014. These were mainly synthetic cannabis products containing ingredients such as AB-FUBINACA, PB-22 (QUPIC), 5F-PB-22, SGT-24 (CUMYL-PINACA), CP 55,244, 4-F-AM-2201, 4-Cl-AM-2201, 5F-ADBICA and AB-005. There was also one cannabinoid pill containing SGT-42 (CUMYL-THPINACA), and several \"party pill\" products containing mixtures of ingredients such as caffeine, hordenine, synephrine and kava. No \"legal high\" products will be allowed back on sale in New Zealand under the Psychoactive Substances Act until they have been tested in a manner yet to be determined, and found to present a \"low risk of harm\". This process is expected to take at least 18 months or more. Six of the synthetic cannabis products were ordered to be immediately removed from sale by emergency recall on 1 May 2014, to ensure that users would not be able to stockpile supplies of these products before the general ban took effect on 9 May.\n\n"}
{"id": "1748163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1748163", "title": "UHF CB", "text": "UHF CB\n\nUHF CB is a class-licensed citizen's band radio service authorised by the governments of Australia, New Zealand, Vanuatu, and Malaysia in the UHF 477 MHz band. UHF CB provides 77 channels, including 32 channels (16 output, 16 input) allocated to repeater stations. It is similar in concept to 27 MHz CB Radio in the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nClass licensing means that users do not have to apply for a licence or pay a licence fee however they must comply with the regulations of the class licence.\n\nUser equipment designs are similar to commercial land mobile two-way radio except the maximum legal output power is 5 Watts. External antennas are permitted and commercially manufactured antennas have gains as high as 12 dB. Handheld transceivers (walkie talkies) are permitted and have transmit power from 500 mW to 5 W (full legal power) and are relatively cheap compared to full-sized transceivers. Operation in the band is restricted to modes F3E and G3E (FM or PM of analogue voice telephony) except for channels 22 and 23, which are data modes only.\n\nIt is illegal to use non-standard radios purchased from overseas because they interfere with licensed land-mobile services. This includes overseas personal radio service devices because they do not share the same band plan, power output and channels as UHF CB. Care must be taken when importing radios from overseas to ensure they comply with local regulations. Approved radios are identified by an Australian standards C Tick usually found on the tag or sticker of the radio.\n\nMany UHF CB radios allow the user to scan channels to find a conversation. Several different scan modes may be provided:\n\nOpen Scan scans all 80 channels to find an active conversation. Some radios allow skipping selected channels when scanning.\n\nGroup Scan scans a small number of selected channels. For example, a caravanner travelling around the country may choose to group scan Channel 40 (Road Channel), 18 (Caravan Channel) and 5 (Emergency Channel) so they will hear any conversations relating to their travels.\n\nPriority Scan allows selection of a \"priority\" channel whilst scanning a handful of selected channels. This could be useful in a convoy of cars where vehicles can set their own convoy channel as a priority channel whilst scanning the designated road channel for traffic updates, if a member from their convoy speaks, the radio will always switch back to the priority channel even if someone is speaking on another channel.\n\nSelective calling (Selcall) allows a radio to call another radio using a sequence of tones, usually presented to the user as a series of 5 numbers. UHF CB radios can be set to be completely silent until they receive a series of tones matching a pre-programmed sequence. Radios which have this feature usually indicate that a call has been received by emitting a number of beeps and by opening the squelch. The popularity of selcall has dropped since the introduction of CTCSS.\n\nContinuous tone coded squelch system (CTCSS) allows a group of radios set with the same tone to converse on a channel without hearing other radios using that channel. CTCSS can be used to silence a radio until another radio with the same tone transmits. This allows monitoring of a channel for transmissions from radios set with the same tone without hearing other conversations that use different or even no tone.\n\nThe use of CTCSS is not permitted on UHF CB repeaters or the designated emergency channels.\n\nRepeaters extend the range of transmission by receiving and automatically rebroadcasting a transmission using an antenna located in a high location, normally the top of a mountain, tall building or radio tower. Sometimes a transmission range of over 100 kilometres (60 miles) can be achieved through the use of a repeater. Repeaters are on channels 1–8 and 41–48 and the duplex button should be pressed to access the repeater.\n\nIt is common practice to install signs at the rear of camper vans and caravans, worksites, roadworks, regional highways, national parks and heavy vehicle checking stations to advertise a UHF channel to communicate on. For example, during the widening of the M1 Pacific Motorway between Sydney and Newcastle, contractors installed \"UHF 29\" signs at the entry point to each worksite.\n\nThe following channels are legislated as a part of the ACMA UHF CB Class Licence.\n\n\nThe following channels are not legislated as a part of the class licence however are used for the following purposes by consensus.\n\n\nUsers should be aware that UHF CB channels 31 to 38 and 71 to 78 are the 'input' channels for repeaters. Users should avoid using these channels to avoid interfering with repeaters. If a repeater is to be used, switch to 1–8 or 41–48 and press the duplex button.\n\nOn 27 May 2011 the channel spacing on UHF CB was changed, allowing the band to expand from 40 channels to 80 channels. Due to data channels 22 and 23 occupying 25 kHz bandwidth, the expansion effectively allows the use of 77 channels, as channels 61, 62 and 63 are reserved.\n\nGeneral chat channels are used in simplex mode, repeater channels must be used in duplex mode. If you are not using a repeater it is recommended to choose a \"general chat\" channel.\nCurrently, older 40 channel radios may still use 25 kHz spacing after ACMA Review 25kHz will be allowed for the immediate future with consultation from industry over the next 6 months from June 30 2017\n\nNew Zealand offers a similar PRS service. New Zealand's Personal Radio Service (PRS) and 26 MHz Citizens Band radio are very similar to Australia's UHF Citizens Band and 27 MHz Citizens Band services.\nThe New Zealand Government's Ministry of Commerce introduced the UHF PRS in 1996 to allow for freely available short-range wireless communications outside the 26 MHz CB band. The UHF (but not VHF) band was selected due to its ability to withstand atmospheric and groundwave interference unlike the existing 26 MHz allocation.\nNZ PRS channels\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6598880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6598880", "title": "United States Navy Regulations", "text": "United States Navy Regulations\n\nUnited States Navy Regulations is the principal regulatory document of the Department of the Navy (not just the \"United States Navy\"), endowed with the sanction of law, as to duty, responsibility, authority, distinctions and relationships of various officials, organizations and individuals.\n\nNavy Regulations are issued by the Secretary of the Navy, and are permanent regulations of general applicability, as opposed to other regulations that he or she may issue in accordance with law. The Navy Regulations serve in effect much as a vehicle of implementation of Title 10 of the United States Code as it pertains to the Naval Services. However, Navy Regulations do not take legal precedence over any order or directive issued by either the President or Secretary of Defense, or of an Act of Congress. \n\nThe Chief of Naval Operations is responsible for maintaining the Navy Regulations, and for ensuring that they conform to the current needs of the Department of the Navy. Other directives issued within the Department of the Navy may not conflict with, alter or amend any provision of Navy Regulations. Any additions, changes or deletions to the U.S. Navy Regulations must be approved by the Secretary of the Navy.\n\nNavy Regulations began with the enactment by the Second Continental Congress of the \"Rules for the Regulation of the Navy of the United Colonies\" on November 28, 1775. The first issuance by the United States Government which covered this subject matter was \"An Act for the Government of the Navy of the United States,\" enacted on March 2, 1799. This was followed the next year by \"An Act for the Better Government of the Navy of the United States.\" \n\nIn the years preceding the American Civil War, twelve successor publications were promulgated under a number of titles by the President, the Navy Department and the Secretary of the Navy. A decision by the Attorney General that the last of the pre-Civil War issuances was invalid led to the inclusion in the 1862 naval appropriations bill of a provision that \"the orders, regulations, and instructions heretofore issued by the Secretary of the Navy be, and they are hereby, recognized as the regulations of the Navy Department, subject, however, to such alterations as the Secretary of the Navy may adopt, with the approbation of the President of the United States.\"\n\nThirteen editions of Navy Regulations were published in accordance with this authority (later codified as Section 1547, Revised Statutes) between 1865 and 1948. The 1973 edition of Navy Regulations was published under authority of , which provided that \"United States Navy Regulations shall be issued by the Secretary of the Navy with the approval of the President.\" In 1981, this provision was amended to eliminate the requirement for presidential approval.\n\nWhile leaving this provision unaffected, Congress enacted the Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99–443), which granted each of the service secretaries the explicit authority to prescribe regulations to carry out his or her statutory functions, powers and duties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12645111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12645111", "title": "Ware &amp; Leland v. Mobile County", "text": "Ware &amp; Leland v. Mobile County\n\nWare & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U.S. 405 (1908), is a case in which the United States Supreme Court held that contracts for the sales of cotton for future delivery that do not oblige interstate shipments are not subjects of interstate commerce. The Court also held that a state tax on persons engaged in buying and selling cotton for future delivery was not a regulation of interstate commerce, and that the imposition of the tax was not beyond the power of the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "422019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422019", "title": "White flag", "text": "White flag\n\nWhite flags have had different meanings throughout history and depending on the locale.\n\nThe white flag is an internationally recognized protective sign of truce or ceasefire, and request for negotiation. It is also used to symbolize surrender, since it is often the weaker party which requests negotiation. It is also flown on ships serving as cartels. A white flag signifies to all that an approaching negotiator is unarmed, with an intent to surrender or a desire to communicate. Persons carrying or waving a white flag are not to be fired upon, nor are they allowed to open fire. The use of the flag to request parley is included in the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907.\n\nThe improper use of the flag is forbidden by the rules of war and constitutes a war crime of perfidy. There have been numerous reported cases of such behavior in conflicts, such as combatants using white flags as a ruse to approach and attack enemy combatants, or killings of combatants attempting to surrender by carrying white flags.\n\nThe first mention of the usage of white flags to surrender is made during the Eastern Han dynasty (AD 25–220). In the Roman Empire, the historian Cornelius Tacitus mentions a white flag of surrender in AD 109. Before that time, Roman armies would surrender by holding their shields above their heads. The white flag was widely used in the Middle Ages in Western Europe to indicate an intent to surrender. The color white was used generally to indicate a person was exempt from combat; heralds bore white wands, prisoners or hostages captured in battle would attach a piece of white paper to their hat or helmet, and garrisons that had surrendered and been promised safe passage would carry white batons.\nIts use may have expanded across continents, e.g. Portuguese chronicler Gaspar Correia (writing in the 1550s), claims that in 1502, an Indian prince, the Zamorin of Calicut, dispatched negotiators bearing a \"white cloth tied to a stick\", \"as a sign of peace\", to his enemy Vasco da Gama. In 1625, Hugo Grotius in \"De jure belli ac pacis\" (On the Law of War and Peace), one of the foundational texts in international law, recognized the white flag as a \"sign, to which use has given a signification\"; it was \"a tacit sign of demanding a parley, and shall be as obligatory, as if expressed by words\".\n\nThe Umayyad dynasty (661–750) used white as their symbolic color as a reminder of Muhammad's first battle at Badr, and to distinguish themselves from the Abbasids, by using white, rather than black, as their color of mourning.\n\nDuring the period of the Ancien Régime, starting in the early 17th century, the royal standard of France became a plain white flag as a symbol of purity, sometimes covered in fleur-de-lis when in the presence of the king or bearing the ensigns of the Order of the Holy Spirit.\n\nThe white color was also used as a symbol of military command, by the commanding officer of a French army. It would be featured on a white scarf attached to the regimental flag as to recognise French units from foreign ones and avoid friendly fire incidents. The French troops fighting in the American Revolutionary War fought under the white flag.\n\nThe French Navy used a plain white ensign for ships of the line. Smaller ships might have used other standards, such as a fleur-de-lis on white field. Commerce and private ships were authorised to use their own designs to represent France, but were forbidden to fly the white ensign.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, in 1794, the blue, white and red Tricolore was adopted as the official national flag. The white flag quickly became a symbol of French royalists. (The white part of the French Tricolor is itself originally derived from the old Royal flag, the tricolor having been designed when the revolution still aimed at constitutional monarchy rather than a republic; this aspect of the Tricolor was, however, soon forgotten.)\n\nDuring the Bourbon Restoration, the white flag replaced the Tricolore, by then seen as a symbol of regicide.\n\nIt was finally abandoned in 1830, with the July Revolution, with the definitive use of the blue, white and red flag.\n\nIn 1873, an attempt to reestablish the monarchy failed when Henri of Artois, the Count of Chambord refused to accept the Tricolore. He demanded the return of the white flag before he would accept the throne, a condition that proved unacceptable.\n\nIn 1863, the Confederate States of America adopted a new flag that played on the popularity of the Confederate Battle Flag, using a pure white field with the Battle Flag displayed in a canton in a position equivalent to the stars on the Flag of the United States. The design lasted until March 1865, when concerns about it being mistaken for a flag of truce when the flag was not completely flying necessitated the addition of a broad red band on the fly edge.\n\nThe Christian Flag, designed in the early 20th century to represent all of Christianity and Christendom, has a white field, with a red Latin cross inside a blue canton. In conventional vexillology, a white flag is linked to surrender, a reference to the Biblical description of Jesus' non-violence and surrender to God's will.\n\nIn FIA sanctioned races, a white flag warns of a slow car ahead. In non-FIA races, a white racing flag is displayed from the starter's tower to indicate that the race leader is running the final lap. The white flag can be pointed at the race leader to avoid confusion of other drivers. Drivers may wave a small white flag after a collision to indicate that they are uninjured.\n\nIn NASCAR and other racing leagues, a white flag symbolizes one lap to go. After this, the checkered flag is waved. NASCAR sometimes has finishes that are coined as \"green–white–checker finishes\" because of the order of the flags waved lap after lap before the finish.\n\nIn Buddhist countries, white is the colour of mourning, so a white flag is used where other cultures might fly a black flag.\n\nDuring the Afghan Civil War, the Taliban used a plain white flag. When it took over Kabul in 1996, and established the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, the white flag became the national flag of the country, representing \"the purity of their faith and government\". After 1997, the Taliban added the Shahadah to the flag.\n\nDuring the Genpei War (1180–1185), the Minamoto clan fought under a white flag while the Taira clan fought under a red flag. As successive shogunates were from the Minamoto clan, this usage continued to the end of Tokugawa shogunate in 1868 when the current international usage was adopted.\n\n"}
