{"id": "30031585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30031585", "title": "2010s Haiti cholera outbreak", "text": "2010s Haiti cholera outbreak\n\nThe 2010 Haitian cholera outbreak was the first modern large-scale outbreak of cholera – a disease once considered beaten back largely due to the invention of modern sanitation. Since its reintroduction to Haiti in October 2010, cholera has spread across the country and has become endemic, causing high levels of both morbidity and mortality. Since its reintroduction to Haiti following the 2010 Haitian earthquake, nearly 800,000 Haitians have been infected by cholera, and more than 9,000 have died, according to the United Nations (UN). Cholera transmission in Haiti today is largely a function of eradication efforts including WASH (water, sanitation, and hygiene), education, and oral vaccination, and climate variability. Early efforts were made to cover up the source of the epidemic, but thanks largely to the investigations of journalist Jonathan M. Katz and epidemiologist Renaud Piarroux, today it is widely believed to be the result of contamination by infected United Nations peacekeepers deployed from Nepal. In terms of total infections, the outbreak has since been surpassed by the war-fueled 2016–17 Yemen cholera outbreak, although the Haiti outbreak is still the most deadly modern outbreak.\n\nIn January 2010, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit Haiti, killing over 100,000 people and further disrupting healthcare and sanitation infrastructure in the country. In the aftermath of the earthquake, international workers from many countries arrived in Haiti to assist in the response and recovery efforts, including a number of workers from countries where cholera is endemic. Before the outbreak, no cases of cholera had been identified in Haiti for more than a century, and the Caribbean region as a whole had not been affected by the cholera outbreak originating in Peru in 1991. The population's lack of prior exposure and acquired immunity contributed to the severity of the outbreak.\n\nCholera is caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae that when ingested can cause diarrhea and vomiting within several hours to 2–3 days. Without proper treatment including oral rehydration, cholera can be fatal. The suspected source of vibrio cholerae in Haiti was the Artibonite River, from which most of the affected people had consumed the water. Each year, tens of thousands of Haitians bathe, wash their clothes and dishes, obtain drinking water, and recreate in this river, therefore resulting in high rates of exposure to vibrio cholerae.\n\nThe cholera outbreak began ten months after the January 2010 earthquake, leading some observers to wrongly suspect it was a result of the natural disaster. However, Haitians grew immediately suspicious of a UN peacekeeper base, home to Nepalese peacekeepers, positioned on a tributary of the Artibonite River. Neighboring farmers reported an undeniable stench of human feces coming from the base, to the extent that local Haitians began getting their drinking water upstream from the base. In response, United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) officials issued a press statement denying the possibility that the base could have caused the epidemic, citing stringent sanitation standards. The next day, 27 October 2010, Jonathan M. Katz, an Associated Press correspondent, visited the base and found gross inconsistencies between the statement and the base's actual conditions. Katz also happened upon UN military police taking samples of ground water to test for cholera, despite UN assertions that it was not concerned about a possible link between its peacekeepers and the disease. Neighbors told the reporter that waste from the base often spilled into the river. Later that day, a crew from Al Jazeera English, including reporter Sebastian Walker, filmed the soldiers trying to excavate a leaking pipe; the video was posted online the following day and, citing the AP report, drew increased awareness to the base. MINUSTAH spokesmen later contended that the samples taken from the base proved negative for cholera. However, an AP investigation showed that the tests were improperly done at a laboratory in the Dominican Republic, which had no prior experience of testing for cholera.\n\nFor three months, UN officials, the CDC, and others argued against investigating the source of the outbreak. Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the World Health Organization (WHO), said finding the cause of the outbreak was \"not important\". Hartl said,\"Right now, there is no active investigation. I cannot say one way or another [if there will be]. It is not something we are thinking about at the moment. What we are thinking about is the public health response in Haiti.\" Jordan Tappero, the lead epidemiologist at the CDC, said the main task was to control the outbreak, not to look for the source of the bacteria and that \"we may never know the actual origin of this cholera strain.\" A CDC spokesperson, Kathryn Harben, added that \"at some point in the future, when many different analyses of the strain are complete, it may be possible to identify the origin of the strain causing the outbreak in Haiti.\"\n\nPaul Farmer, co-founder of the medical organization Partners In Health, and a UN official himself who served Bill Clinton's deputy at the Office of the Special Envoy for Haiti, told the AP's Katz on 3 November 2010 that there was no reason to wait. Farmer stated, \"The idea that we'd never know is not very likely. There's got to be a way to know the truth without pointing fingers.\" A cholera expert, John Mekalanos, supported the assertion that it was important to know where and how the disease emerged because the strain is a \"novel, virulent strain previously unknown in the Western Hemisphere and health officials need to know how it spreads.\"\n\nSome US professors have disagreed with the contention that Nepalese soldiers caused the outbreak. Some said it was more likely dormant cholera bacteria had been aroused by various environmental incidents in Haiti. Before studying the case, they said a sequence of events, including changes in climate triggered by the La Niña climate pattern and unsanitary living conditions for those affected by the earthquake, triggered bacteria already present in the water and soil to multiply and infect humans.\n\nHowever, a study unveiled in December and conducted by French epidemiologist Renaud Piarroux contended that UN troops from Nepal, rather than environmental factors, had started the epidemic as waste from outhouses at their base flowed into and contaminated the Artibonite River. A separate study published in December in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" presented DNA sequence data for the Haitian cholera isolate, finding that it was most closely related to a cholera strain found in Bangladesh in 2002 and 2008. It was more distantly related to existing South American strains of cholera, the authors reported, adding that \"the Haitian epidemic is probably the result of the introduction, through human activity, of a V. cholerae strain from a distant geographic source.\"\n\nUnder intense pressure, the UN relented, and said it would appoint a panel to investigate the source of the cholera strain. That panel's report, issued in May 2011, confirmed substantial evidence that the Nepalese troops had brought the disease to Haiti. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) utilized DNA fingerprinting to tests various samples of cholera from Haitian patients to pinpoint the specific strand of cholera found in Haiti. During an epidemiological outbreak investigation, DNA fingerprinting of bacteria can be extremely helpful in identifying the source of an outbreak. The results of the CDC tests showed that the specific strain of cholera found in samples taken from Haitian patients was vibrio cholerae serogroup O1, serotype Ogawa, a strain found in South Asia. This specific strain of cholera is endemic in Nepal, therefore supporting the Haitian suspicion that Nepalese peacekeepers were the source of the outbreak. However, in the report's concluding remarks, the authors hedged to say that a \"confluence of circumstances\" was to blame.\n\nRita Colwell, former director of the National Science Foundation and climate change expert, still contends that climate changes were an important factor in cholera's spread, stating in an interview with UNEARTH News in August 2013 that the outbreak was \"triggered by a complicated set of factors. The precipitation and temperatures were above average during 2010 and that, in conjunction with a destroyed water and sanitation infrastructure, can be considered to have contributed to this major disease outbreak.\"\n\nIn August 2016, after Katz obtained a leaked copy of a report by United Nations Special Rapporteur Philip Alston, Secretary General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon accepted responsibility for the UN's role in the initial outbreak and stated that a \"significant new set of U.N. actions\" will be required to help solve the problem.\n\nAt the beginning of the outbreak, widespread panic regarding the virulence of the disease and the UN's denial of the blame caused increased tension between the UN and the Haitian community. On 15 November 2010, a riot broke out in Cap-Haïtien following the death of a young Haitian inside the Cap-Haïtien UN base and rumours that the outbreak was caused by UN soldiers from Nepal. Protesters demanded that the Nepalese brigade of the UN leave the country. At least 5 people were killed in the riots, including 1 UN personnel. Riots then continued for a second day. Following the riots, the UN continued their position that the Nepalese soliders were not to blame, and rather said that the riots was being staged for \"political reasons because of forthcoming elections\", as the Haitian government sent its own forces to \"protest\" the UN peacekeepers. During a third day of riots, UN personnel were blamed for shooting at least 5 protestors, but denied responsibility. On the fourth day of demonstrations against the UN presence, police fired tear gas into an IDP camp in the capital.\n\nThe outbreak of cholera became an issue for Haitian candidates to answer in the 2010 general election. There were fears that the election could be postponed. The head of MINUSTAH, Edmond Mulet said that it should not be delayed as that could lead to a political vacuum with untold potential problems.\n\nIn November 2011, the UN received a petition from 5,000 victims for hundreds of millions of dollars in reparations over the outbreak thought to have been caused by UN members of MINUSTAH. In February 2013, the United Nations responded by invoking its immunity from lawsuits under the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations. On 9 October 2013, Bureau des Avocats Internationaux (BAI), the Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti (IJDH), and civil rights lawyer Ira Kurzban's law firm Kurzban Kurzban Weinger Tetzeli & Pratt, P.A.(KKWT) filed a lawsuit against the UN in the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit was dismissed, but an appeal was filed in the Second Circuit. In October 2016, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the United Nations' immunity from claims.\n\nIn December 2016, the then UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon finally apologized on behalf of UN, saying he was \"profoundly sorry\" for the outbreak. The Secretary-General promised to spend $400 million to aid the victims and to improve the nation's crumbling sanitation and water systems. As of March 2017, the UN has come through with only 2 percent of that amount.\n\nOn October 21, 2010, the Haitian Ministry of Public Health and Population (MSPP) confirmed the first case of cholera in Haiti in over a century. The outbreak began in the rural Center department of Haiti, about north of the capital, Port-au-Prince. By the first 10 weeks of the epidemic, cholera spread to all of Haiti's 10 departments or provinces. It had killed 4,672 people by March 2011 and hospitalized thousands more. The outbreak in Haiti was the most severe in recent history prior to 2010; the World Health Organization reported that from 2010 to 2011, the outbreak in Haiti accounted for 57% of all cases and 45% of all deaths from cholera worldwide.\n\nWhen the outbreak began in October 2010, more than 6% of Haitians resulted in acquiring the disease. The highest incidence of cholera occurred in 2011 immediately following the introduction of the primary exposure. The rate of incidence slowly declined thereafter, with spikes resulting from rainy seasons and hurricanes. As reported by the Haitian Health Ministry, as of August 2012, the outbreak had caused 586,625 cholera cases and 7,490 deaths. According to the Pan American Health Organization, as of 21 November 2013, there had been 689,448 cholera cases in Haiti, leading to 8,448 deaths. While there had been an apparent lull in cases in 2014, by August 2015 the rainy season brought a spike in the number of cases. At that time more than 700,000 Haitians had become ill with the disease and the death toll had climbed to 9,000. As of March 2017, around 7% of Haiti's population (around 800,665 people) have been affected with cholera, and 9,480 Haitians have died. Latest epidemiological report by WHO in 2018 indicate a total of 812,586 cases of cholera in Haiti since October 2010, resulting in 9,606 deaths.\n\nThe first case of cholera was reported in the Dominican Republic in mid-November 2010, following the Pan-America Health Organization's prediction. By January 2011, the Dominican Republic had reported 244 cases of cholera. The first man to die of it there died in the province of Altagracia on 23 January 2011. The Dominican Republic was particularly vulnerable to exposure of cholera due to sharing a border with Haiti, and a large Haitian refugee population displaced following the 2010 earthquake. As of the latest epidemiological report by WHO in 2018, there has been a total of 33,188 cases of cholera in the Dominican Republic resulting in 504 deaths.\n\nIn late January 2011, more than 20 Venezuelans were reported to have been taken to hospital after contracting cholera after visiting the Dominican Republic. 37 cases were reported in total. Contaminated food was blamed for the spread of the disease. Venezuelan health minister Eugenia Sader gave a news conference which was broadcast on VTV during which she described all 37 people as \"doing well\". The minister had previously observed that the last time cholera was recorded in Venezuela was twenty years before this, in 1991. I\n\nIn late June 2012, Cuba confirmed three deaths and 53 cases of cholera in Manzanillo; in 2013 there were 51 cases of cholera reported in Havana. Vaccination of half the population was urged by the University of Florida to stem the epidemic.\n\nBefore the outbreak, Haiti suffered from relatively poor public health and sanitation infrastructure. In 2002, Haiti was ranked 147th out of 147 countries for water security. As of 2008, 37% of Haiti's population lacked access to adequate drinking water, and 83% lacked improved sanitation facilities. As such, families often obtain their water from natural sources, such as rivers, that may be contaminated with \"V. cholerae.\" Poor sanitation infrastructure allows cholera bacterium to enter these waterways. Persons are subsequently infected via the fecal-oral route when the water is used for drinking and cooking, and poor hygiene often contributes to the spread of cholera through the household or community. There is also a chronic shortage of health care personnel, and hospitals lack adequate resources to treat those infected with cholera- a situation that became readily apparent after the January 2010 earthquake. Insufficient water and sanitation infrastructure, coupled with a massive earthquake in 2010, made Haiti particularly vulnerable to an outbreak of waterborne disease.\n\nMalnutrition of the population, another pre-existing condition that was exacerbated by the earthquake, may have also contributed to the severity of the outbreak. Research from previous outbreaks shows that duration of diarrhea can be prolonged by up to 70% in individuals suffering from severe malnutrition. Furthermore, Haitians had no biological immunity to the strain of cholera introduced since they had no previous exposure to it. Therefore, physiological factors including malnutrition and lack of immunity may have allowed cholera to spread rapidly throughout the country.\n\nLack of information and limited access to some rural areas can also be a barrier to care. Some aid agencies have reported that mortality and morbidity tolls may be higher than the official figures because the government does not track deaths in rural areas where people never reached a hospital or emergency treatment center. Limitations in the data from Haiti stem from a lack of pre-outbreak lack of surveillance infrastructure and laboratories to properly test samples and diagnose cases. Haiti was tasked with developing surveillance systems and laboratories after the 2010 earthquake and cholera outbreak which caused difficulties tracking the progression and scale of the outbreak. Because of the lack of established surveillance, much of the case report data is anecdotal and potentially underestimated. Also, because of lack of laboratory confirmation for the vast majority of cases of cholera, it is possible that other diarrheal diseases were being falsely classified as cholera.\n\nRainy seasons and hurricanes continue to cause a temporary spike in incident cases and deaths. Moreover, as a result of global warming and climate change, Haiti is at an increased risk of cholera transmission. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) advances that global warming between 1.5-2 degrees Celsius will very likely lead to an increase in frequency and intensity of natural disasters and extreme weather events. Resource-poor countries are poised to be affected more so than more developed and economically secure countries.\n\nEnvironmental factors such as temperature increases, severe weather events, and natural disasters have a two-fold impact on the transmission potential of cholera in Haiti: 1) they present conditions favorable to the persistence and growth of \"V. cholerae\" in the environment, and 2) they devastate a country’s infrastructure and strain public health and health care resources. An exhaustive study into environmental factors influencing the spread of cholera in Haiti cites above average air temperatures following the earthquake, “anomalously high rainfall” from September to October 2010, and damage to the limited water and sanitation infrastructure as likely converging to create conditions favorable to a cholera outbreak.\n\nHundreds of thousands of dollars have been dedicated towards eradicating cholera in Haiti since its introduction in 2010, yet unsanitary conditions and climate-driven forces allow cholera transmission to continue. While the number of new cases of cholera has drastically decreased from 2010, and is currently the lowest it has been since the outbreak began, the incidence remains at 25.5 per 100,000 population as of October 2018\".\" Over time, there has been significant progress in the reduction of caseloads and overall number of deaths. According to one PAHO/WHO report, “the cumulative case-fatality rate (CFR) has remained around 1% since 2011.” These achievements can be contributed to intensified international and local medical efforts and an increased emphasis on preventative measures, including improved sanitation, such as latrines, and changes in Haitian behaviors such as treating water, thoroughly cooking food, and rigorous hand-washing.  Despite these progresses, cholera remains endemic in Haiti, and further resources are needed to fully eradicate it.\n\nAfter former UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon accepted UN responsibility for the introduction of cholera in Haiti in December 2016, Moon projected a necessary $400 million in funding over two years in order to fully eradicate cholera in Haiti.  The Government of Haiti has dedicated itself to the complete eradication of cholera from Haiti by 2022 as presented in the Cholera Elimination Plan (PNEC) 2013 – 2022. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, successor to Ban Ki Moon, took up Moon’s commitment to assist Haiti in the eradication of cholera when he took office in 31 December 2016, as demonstrated by strategic objective 2 of the 2017- 2018 Haiti Revised Humanitarian Plan. Strategic objective 2 reads, “Save lives from epidemics – Reduce mortality and morbidity due to cholera outbreaks and other waterborne diseases through the reduction of vulnerability, strengthening of epidemiological surveillance and ensuring of rapid and effective response.”  The 2017 – 2018 Haiti Revised Humanitarian Plan identifies 1.9 million people in need of assistance for the protection from cholera, of which, 1.5 million people are targeted through programming totaling $21.7 million USD.  Currently, the UN and Government of Haiti are on target to reach the 2016 – 2018 midterm goal to reduce the incidence of cholera to less than 0.1% by the end of 2018. However, any disruption in funding of support services may result in a spike in transmission and the interruption of the downward trend.\n\nThe first challenge to the eradication of cholera in Haiti is the countries vulnerability to disasters, putting it in a state of protracted crises. The climax of cholera incidence in Haiti was in 2011 with 352,000 new cases following the introduction of cholera in Haiti in late 2010. Incidence rates gradually declined until 2016 when there was another spike in the transmission and incidence of cholera following Hurricane Matthew’s destruction in Haiti from October 2–5, 2016. There was a rise in cholera incidence from 32,000 new cases in 2015 to 42,000 new cases in 2016. By re-damaging Haiti’s fragile water and sanitation infrastructure, Hurricane Matthew allowed cholera to rear its head. These figures demonstrate that the fight against cholera in Haiti, while improving, is on unstable ground. This indicates that while eradication efforts have largely been focused on vaccination and community education to prevent transmission, and oral rehydration to reduce mortality, the underlying vulnerabilities that perpetuate the disaster remain, particularly insufficient and unequal access to improved water and sanitation.\n\nWhile the Government of Haiti’s Cholera Elimination Plan (PNEC) 2013 – 2022 and the New UN System Approach on Cholera in Haiti (see solutions below for more information) lay out plans for the elimination of cholera in Haiti by 2022, these are entirely dependent on funding. In former Secretary General Moon’s December 5, 2016 remarks he says, “Without political will and financial support from the membership of the United Nations, we have only good intentions and words. Words are powerful — but they cannot replace action and material support.”  Due to the infectious nature of cholera, any lapse in funding for programming will likely result in setbacks in elimination.\n\nAs of 2017, funding for cholera is at risk due to increasing food insecurity and shelter needs for Haitian refugees returning from the Dominican Republic. In the 2017 – 2018 Revised Haiti Humanitarian Plan, funding requirements for cholera programming is the third largest at $21.7 million, behind $76.6 million for food security and $103.8 million for shelter/NFI needs.\n\nIn 2013, the Government of Haiti launched an oral cholera vaccination (OCV) campaign in two regions: Cerca Caravajal and Petite Anse. These regions were chosen because of particularly high attack rates, sanitation infrastructure, and access to healthcare. This vaccination effort was slightly controversial because the WHO guidelines at the time did not encourage mass vaccination campaigns in areas where outbreaks had already occurred. Prior to the 2010 outbreak in Haiti, vaccination campaigns were thought to detract from more important prevention measures like water treatment and good hygiene. Relative success rates (up to 65% or higher protective effectiveness 5 years after vaccination) in recent vaccination campaigns in Haiti and other countries affected by cholera has led to more widespread use of oral cholera vaccine programs and a change in the WHO guidelines to encourage use of vaccines in addition to other prevention and treatment strategies.\n\nAt the end of 2016, former UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon presented the “New UN System Approach on Cholera in Haiti.” This two-track approach marked the UN’s acceptance of responsibility for the introduction of cholera in Haiti and demonstrated its commitment to the eradication of the disease in Haiti. Since the 2016 admission of guilt, there has been increased coordination and goodwill between the Government of Haiti and UN, resulting in great strides towards the elimination of cholera. 2017 was a hallmark year in the elimination of cholera from Haiti. The 2017 – 2018 Haiti Revised Humanitarian Plan reports, “As of 31 December 2017, 13,682 suspected cholera cases and 150 deaths had been registered in the country in 2017 compared to 41,955 cases and 451 deaths for the same period in 2016, a decrease of 67% in both cases.” Newly developed rapid response teams are largely to credit for the reduction in disease incidence.\n\nThe ability for the humanitarian sector to act quickly and bounce back following Hurricane Matthew in 2016, as well as to maintain the downward trend during the heavy rain season, demonstrates progress in the eradication of cholera in Haiti.\n\nTrack 1 of the New UN System Approach on Cholera in Haiti aims to “intensify efforts to respond to and reduce the incidence of cholera in Haiti” through three main projects.  The first is strengthening and supporting the rapid response framework developed by the Haitian Government which deploys to communities where cholera is suspected within 48-hours. There are currently 13 government led rapid response teams, and 60 mobile teams of humanitarian actors that support the rapid response teams. The goal of rapid response teams is to cut the transmission of cholera by first setting up a perimeter called a ‘cordon sanitaire’ and investigating the source of the outbreak at the household level. This investigation is coupled with education and awareness raising on cholera prevention, administering oral prophylaxis and distribution of WASH kits.  If an outbreak is confirmed, temporary chlorination points are installed on community water sources. People treated for cholera by the rapid response teams are then recruited to Community Engagement & Hygiene Awareness (CEHA) teams. The CEHA teams return to their communities to conduct outreach and sensitization on how to cut transmission and assist the government in monitoring water sources. This rapid response design with the assistance of the CEHA teams is responsible for a major decline in disease incidence in the Ouest department in 2017. As long as funding continues to support rapid response, a continued decline in disease incidence can be suspected.  \n\nThe second project of track 1 is the continued support of oral cholera vaccination campaigns as a preventative measure.  In 2018, the oral cholera vaccine campaign will focus on departments with the highest incidence of disease, particularly Artibonite and Centre departments.\n\nThe final aim of track 1 is to “more effectively address… the medium/longer term issues of water, sanitation and health systems.”  The 2010 earthquake and subsequent cholera outbreak/epidemic exposed to the international community how vulnerable the Haitian water, sanitation, and health infrastructure was. Cholera and other water-borne diseases will continue to circulate in Haiti as long as large sections of their population do not have access to improved water and sanitation facilities. As part of the UN’s “New Way of Working” which aims to bridge the development and humanitarian gap, the UN will be working with major development actors including the World Bank and the International Development Bank to address infrastructure vulnerabilities that put Haiti at risk of protracted crisis. The “New Way of Working” aims to draw from funding sources on both sides of the spectrum, both development and humanitarian, to work towards the Sustainable Development Goals.  No joint funded projects have been reported in Haiti yet.\n\nThe second track of the New UN System Approach on Cholera in Haiti proposes to provide material assistance to individuals and families who were most affected by cholera.  The material assistance package is the UN’s attempt at reparations after accepting responsibility for the introduction of cholera in Haiti. The UN reports, “nearly 800,000 Haitians have been infected by cholera since 2010 [as of 2016] and more than 9,000 have died.”  First, consultations will be conducted with the community to identify what materials will be of greatest impact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4560156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4560156", "title": "Acimed", "text": "Acimed\n\nAcimed (\"Journal of Information Professionals in Health\") is a Spanish language journal of medical informatics published by the National Center of Information on Medical Sciences in Cuba. It was first published in 1993 and is the first Spanish language journal to be published on the subject of medical informatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "21165603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21165603", "title": "Allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome", "text": "Allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome\n\nAllopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome typically occurs in persons with preexisting kidney failure. Weeks to months after allopurinol is begun, the patient develops a morbilliform eruption or, less commonly, develops one of the far more serious and potentially lethal severe cutaneous adverse reactions viz., the DRESS syndrome, Stevens Johnson syndrome, or toxic epidermal necrolysis. \n\n"}
{"id": "5941570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5941570", "title": "Amylomaize", "text": "Amylomaize\n\nAmylomaize was a term coined in the late 1940s by Robert P. Bear of Bear Hybrids Corn Company in Decatur, Illinois to describe his discovery and commercial breeding of a cornstarch with high (>50%) amylose content, also called high amylose starch. The discovery of amylomaize occurred as a mutation in a normal inbred line; from that one mutation an entire new kind of maize (corn) was developed.\n\nPrincipal uses of amylomaize starch are in making biodegradable plastics (or bioplastics). It is also used in coatings that are edible and digestible. The food that the first American astronauts used on Apollo flights from 1969 to 1972 were coated with amylomaize film, so that no crumbs would float around in the space capsule.\n\nSeveral years earlier Robert P. Bear had discovered and reported that waxy corn (100% amylopectin starch) also occurred as a mutation. Once discovered and reported, waxy mutations were found in the order of once every 30,000 observations.\n\n"}
{"id": "12515001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12515001", "title": "Barbados Red Cross Society", "text": "Barbados Red Cross Society\n\nThe Barbados Red Cross Society was founded in 1960 as part of the British Red Cross. The Parliament of Barbados passed the Barbados Red Cross Society Act in 1966, the same year that Barbados became a country independent of the United Kingdom.\n\nBarbados Independence Act 1966\n\n"}
{"id": "25220261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25220261", "title": "CRAFFT Screening Test", "text": "CRAFFT Screening Test\n\nThe CRAFFT Screening Test is a short clinical assessment tool designed to screen for substance-related risks and problems in adolescents. CRAFFT stands for the key words of the 6 items in the second section of the assessment - Car, Relax, Alone, Forget, Friends, Trouble. As of 2016, an updated version of the CRAFFT known as the “CRAFFT 2.0” has been released.\n\nThe older version of the questionnaire contains 9 items in total, answered in a \"yes\" or \"no\" format. The first three items (Part A) evaluate alcohol and drug use over the past year and the other six (Part B) ask about situations in which the respondent used drugs or alcohol and any consequences of the usage. The CRAFFT 2.0 screening tool begins with past-12-month frequency items (Part A), rather than the previous “yes/no” question for any use over the past year and the other six (Part B) ask about situations in which the respondent used drugs or alcohol and any consequences of usage.\n\nThe CRAFFT can function as a self-report questionnaire or an interview to be administered by a clinician. Both employ a skip pattern: those whose Part A score is \"0\" (no use) answer the Car question only of Part B, while those who report any use in Part A also answer Part B's five CRAFFT questions. Each \"yes\" answer is scored as \"1\" point and a CRAFFT total score of two or higher identifies \"high risk\" for a substance use disorder and warrants further assessment.\n\nThe CRAFFT Screening Test was developed by John R Knight, MD and colleagues at the Center for Adolescent Substance Abuse Research (CeASAR) at Boston Children's Hospital. Their goal was to develop a screening tool that - like the CAGE questionnaire used for adults - was brief and easy to administer and score. Unlike the CAGE, the CRAFFT was designed to be developmentally appropriate for adolescents and screen conjointly for both alcohol and drug use. Because alcohol- and drug-related motor-vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among adolescents, the CRAFFT includes a single risk item to evaluate this. It has been established as valid and reliable for identifying youth who need further assessment and therapeutic intervention The CRAFFT was originally designed to screen adolescents at high risk of substance use disorders in primary medical care offices. However, the necessity for an adolescent screening measure was made apparent by research findings suggesting that half of high school students drink, a third binge drink, and a fourth use marijuana. For drug use specifically, studies show that more than half of high school seniors have used an illegal drug of any kind and a fourth have used illegal drugs other than marijuana. In addition, more than two-thirds of high school seniors, half of sophomores, and a third of eighth graders have used alcohol in the past year. These findings also contributed to the identification of a need for a tool like the CRAFFT to be developed.\n\nThis revised version of the CRAFFT screening tool incorporates changes that enhance the sensitivity of the system in terms of identifying adolescents with substance use, and presents new recommended clinician talking points, informed by the latest science and clinician feedback, to guide a brief discussion about substance use with adolescents. The CRAFFT 2.0 provides an updated and revised version of this well-validated and widely utilized adolescent substance use screening protocol. Although the previous version of the CRAFFT will still be available, CeASAR recommends that clinicians transition to using version 2.0.\n\nThe CRAFFT 2.0 screening tool begins with past-12-month frequency items, rather than the previous “yes/no” question for any use over the past year. A recent study examining these opening yes/no questions found that they had relatively low sensitivity in identifying youth with any past-12-month alcohol or marijuana use (62% and 72%, respectively). Research also has suggested that yes/no questions may contribute to lower sensitivity on certain measures by inhibiting disclosure of less socially desirable behaviors; i.e., they may be more prone to social desirability bias.\n\nAlternatively, questions that ask “how many” or “how often” implicitly imply an expectation of the behavior, and may thus mitigate discomfort around disclosure. The instruction, “Say ‘0’ if none” follows each question to convey that non-use is also normative. The CRAFFT 2.0 now begins with past-12-month frequency items; i.e., “During the past 12 months, on how many days did you … [drink/use substance name]?”\n\nThis new set of frequency questions was tested in a recent study of 708 adolescent primary care patients ages 12–18 that found a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 81% for detecting past-12-month use of any substance, suggesting better performance in identifying substance use compared to that of the “yes/no” questions found in the prior study. These data support the rationale to change the opening questions in the CRAFFT 2.0.\n\nThe CRAFFT 2.0 will be translated into the following languages: Chinese, Creole, French, German Hebrew, Japanese, Khmer, Korean, Laotian, Portuguese (Brazil and Portugal), Russian, Spanish (Spain and Latin America), Turkish, Ukrainian, and Vietnamese.\n\nResearch has shown that CRAFFT has relatively high sensitivity and specificity, internal consistency, and test-retest reliability as a screener for alcohol and substance misuse. The CRAFFT questionnaire has been validated against the current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) and demonstrates good ability to distinguish between those with and without clinical levels of any DSM-5 substance use disorder. It is supported by many studies as a reliable and valid assessment of substance abuse in adolescents and is considered an effective tool for assessing whether further assessment is warranted. It has been well-validated against criterion standard psychological tests and structured psychiatric diagnostic interviews. It has been recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics' Committee on Substance Abuse for use with adolescents. Findings suggest that pediatricians should regularly screen for substance abuse in adolescents using the CRAFFT.\n\nThe CRAFFT has been translated into many languages, including Mandarin, French, Haitian Creole, French, Hebrew, Japanese, Khmer, Laotian, Russian, Portuguese, Spanish, Turkish, and Vietnamese. Studies attest to its validity and reliability across cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12148302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12148302", "title": "Dietitians of Canada", "text": "Dietitians of Canada\n\nDietitians of Canada (DC) is the professional organization and \"nation-wide voice of dietitians in Canada\". As an organization DC is active at the local, provincial, national\nand international levels and has 6000 members which meet their academic and experience standards. DC is the\naccrediting body for all university and training programs that credential dietitians to practice in Canada.\n"}
{"id": "44269171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44269171", "title": "Disability in the United Kingdom", "text": "Disability in the United Kingdom\n\nDisability is an issue that directly affects a significant proportion of the population of the United Kingdom. Section6(1) of the Equality Act 2010 defines disability as:\n\"A person has a disability for the purposes of the Act if he or she has a physical or mental impairment and the impairment has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his or her ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.\"\n\nIn 2014 more than 11 million British people (excluding Northern Ireland) were reported to have a long term impairment or disability. The incidence rises with age; about 6% of children, 16% of working age adults and 45% of pensioners are reported as having a disability.\n\nUnder the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) (1995, extended in 2005), it is unlawful for organisations to discriminate (treat a disabled person less favourably, for reasons related to the person's disability, without justification) in employment; access to goods, facilities, services; managing, buying or renting land or property; education. Businesses must make \"reasonable adjustments\" to their policies or practices, or physical aspects of their premises, to avoid indirect discrimination.\n\nSince 2010 the Disability Discrimination Act has been replaced with the Equality Act 2010. This act still protects disabled people against discrimination but also encompasses a number of other characteristics including age, gender reassignment, marriage, pregnancy, race, religion, sex and sexual orientation.\n\nPolicies and legislation in Northern Ireland differs significantly from the rest of the UK.\n\nMedical treatment in the United Kingdom is generally free under the NHS. Social Care is subject to a means test. Some services required by disabled people do not fall clearly into either category, and are subject to local rationing decisions. It has been suggested that the safeguards in respect of waiting times provided by the NHS Constitution for England are often not met.\n\nProvision of NHS wigs and fabric supports, i.e. spinal or abdominal supports or surgical brassieres supplied through a hospital are covered by the NHS Low Income Scheme.\n\nWheelchairs both manual and electric are supplied and maintained free of charge for disabled people whose need for such a chair is permanent. The specific criteria of eligibility are decided locally by clinical commissioning groups in England and health boards in Wales. Applicants must be referred by a clinician. Assessment and provision is in the hands of NHS wheelchair services, some of which offer a voucher scheme which permit a disabled person to add their own funds to the value of the chair which they are assessed as needing.\n\nIn 2017 there were about 1.2 million wheelchair users in the UK, of whom about two thirds were regular users. According to NHS England there were widespread delays in getting chairs, and about half the users develop a pressure ulcer at some point caused, in part, by ill-fitting or ill-equipped chairs. Proposals to improve the commissioning and provision of wheelchair services were formulated in 2015 with the help of the National Wheelchair Leadership Alliance, set up by Tanni Grey Thompson. The vouchers will be replaced by personal wheelchair budgets, based on an assessment of individual needs and goals. The British Medical Association’s annual meeting in 2107 unanimously passed a motion calling for wheelchair users to have “timely access to chairs suitable for their individual conditions\". There are particular problems with the supply of electric wheelchairs. In 2017 more than 5,100 children, about 18%, had to wait more than four months from the time of their referral to their chair being delivered. Dame Tanni Grey-Thompson said, “If a child doesn’t have the right chair it means they cannot go to school, it means children are harder to handle for parents, it means potentially more respite care.”\n\nHearing aids have been targeted for cutbacks in the NHS as pressure grows on budgets. North Staffordshire Clinical commissioning group decided that from October 2015 they would no longer pay for hearing aids for people with mild hearing loss or some people with moderate hearing loss. This will save around £200,000 a year. The decision was accepted by Staffordshire County Council's health scrutiny committee in June 2015. It is expected that the other CCGs in the county will adopt a similar policy. In June 2017 Milton Keynes clinical commissioning group was reported to be considering rationing the supply of hearing aids to one per person, and none for people with mild hearing loss or moderate hearing loss unless they could show they were “suffering a significant negative impact”. Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust, which runs community services in the area, complained that these proposals were “incredibly damaging”, contrary to national policy, robust evidence, and professional opinion...\"\n\nDisability rights has a long and varied history in the UK, ranging from the establishment of a pioneering organisation in the 1970s to more recent cutbacks of social security benefits and consequent protests. The UK was an early adopter of anti-discrimination legislation in 1995 and ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2009. The organised disability rights movement in the UK can trace its roots back to the establishment of the Union of the Physically Impaired Against Segregation in the early 1970s. The organisation's founding principles gave rise to the social model of disability.\n\nDisabled people disputing benefit claims are usually denied legal aid forcing them to deal with complex and distressing cases without help. The numbers disputing when benefits are denied have fallen drastically and it is feared the most vulnerable are losing out.\n\nThe treatment of disabled people was an issue in the United Kingdom general election, 2017. The Green Party and Labour Party both produced separate disability manifestos. The Green Party document was launched by their candidate in Putney, Ben Fletcher, who is deafblind.\n\nMany UK disabled people cannot afford proper food or cannot afford to keep their homes warm due to benefit cuts. Research by Leonard Cheshire Disability shows struggling families. Also 27% of working age disabled adults have less than £50 spending money per week after paying income tax, council tax and housing costs. 54% of those without social care or with inadequate care feel isolated and lonely. 53% felt lack of help worsened their mental health. The Equality and Human Rights Commission reported disabled people were disproportionately harmed by tax and welfare changes since 2010, and disabled families lost up to £10,000 annually.\n\nThe Business Disability Forum (BDF), formerly the Employers' Forum on Disability, is a membership organisation of UK businesses. Following the introduction of the DDA the membership of BDF recognised the need for a tool with which they could measure their performance on disability year on year.\n\nIn 2005 eighty organisations took part in the Disability Standard benchmark providing the first statistics highlighting the UK's performance as a nation of employers.\n\nFollowing the success of the first benchmark Disability Standard 2007 saw the introduction of the Chief Executives' Diamond Awards for outstanding performance and 116 organisations taking the opportunity to compare trends across a large group of UK employers and monitor the progress they had made on disability.\n\n2009 saw the introduction of the third benchmark, Disability Standard 2009.\n\nIn 2012 the BDF had a number of initiatives to assist businesses in meeting and including the needs of disabled customers and employees. These consisted of The Technology Taskforce (a Business Disability Forum partner initiative which brings together some of the world's largest procurers and suppliers of ICT); Accessible Technology Charter (launched in November 2011) in which the 'Accessibility Maturity Model' (AMM) is a self-assessment tool to enable businesses to identify and plan key policies for accessible and usable technologies.\n\nHowever, a report by the Social Market Foundation and Trust for London found that disabled people are not being supported into work enough in London. It found that there are 370,000 unemployed disabled Londoners, and a disability employment gap of 38.5%. This is still lower than national average disability employment gap of 41.5%.\n\nA number of financial and care support services, commonly referred to as disability benefits are available, including Incapacity Benefit and Disability Living Allowance.\n\nSocial security benefit claimants with disabilities are 53% more likely to have their benefits sanctioned than claimant without disabilities. Disabled people complain about job centre staff not understanding their disability. Mark Atkinson of disability charity Scope said, “Punitive sanctions can be extremely harmful to disabled people, who already face the financial penalty of higher living costs. There is no clear evidence that cutting disabled people’s benefits supports them to get into and stay in work. Sanctions are likely to cause unnecessary stress, pushing the very people that the government aims to support into work further away from the jobs market.”\n\nThe development of disability art began in the 1970s / 80s as a result of the new political activism of the disabled peoples' movement. The exact date the term came into use is currently unverified, although the first use of the term in the Disability Arts Chronology is 1986. During this period the term \"disability art\" in the disability arts movement has been retrospectively agreed to mean \"art made by disabled people which reflects the experience of disability\". \n\nAs the movement and term developed, the disability arts movement began to expand from what mainly started out as disabled people's cabaret to all art forms. The disability arts movement began to grow year on year and was at its height during the late 1990s. Key exhibitions which looked at disability art happened like \"Barriers\", which was an exhibition considering physical, sensory and intellectual limitation and its effect on personal art practice. (8 Feb - 16 Mar 2007: Aspex Gallery, Portsmouth) and the creation of the Disability Film Festival in London in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "57337316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57337316", "title": "Drift whale", "text": "Drift whale\n\nA drift whale is a cetacean mammal that has died at sea and floated into shore. This is in contrast to a beached or stranded whale, which reaches land alive and may die there or regain safety in the ocean. Most cetaceans that die, from natural causes or predators, do not wind up on land; most die far offshore and sink deep to become novel ecological zones known as whale fall. Some species that wash ashore are scientifically dolphins, i.e. members of the Delphinidae family, but for ease of use, this article treats them all as \"drift whales\". For example, one species notorious for mass strandings is the pilot whale, also known as \"blackfish\", which is taxonomically a dolphin.\nIn historical sources, it is not always clear whether a given cetacean washed up alive or dead, but the term \"drift whale\" focuses on the benefits of its carcass – meat, blubber, fat, and other products – to the people who claimed it. Nowadays, when a dead whale washes up on a beach, often the authorities are required to dispose of it as a potential hazard to human health, so the resource implications go the other way: a drift whale is no longer a benefit to a community, but an expensive disadvantage.\n\nMany cetacean species have been documented as drift whales, but some are more common than others. In New England, for example, the carcasses of fin, humpback, sperm, right, and pilot whales, as well as dolphins, are most likely to drift ashore. Some species have a naturally high buoyancy, and float when they are dead, aided by the gases of putrefaction.\n\nWhales that live in the pelagic ocean, far from the continental shelf, are less likely to wash up ashore than coastal species. Once these deep-sea animals do find themselves in shallower waters, however, they may run into difficulties, as the gradual shelving of the shoreline is thought to play a role in confusing their sense of echolocation. Sperm whale strandings are known to have occurred in the North Sea for centuries, and the incidents may be increasing with louder ship noise.\n\nAside from the whaling industry, most cetaceans have no predators other than the orca (killer whale) and certain large sharks (such as the dusky), which in both cases tend to attack in groups and focus on one young whale. Some drift whale carcasses show injuries consistent with attacks from these species, or, in modern times, with (\"e.g.\", trauma from a propeller). Another obvious and visible cause of traumatic death is cetacean bycatch, \"i.e.\", entanglement with fishing gear, which kills tens of thousands each year, according to the International Whaling Commission.\nOther carcasses show no visible injury, and theories about why the animals died include the possibilities discussed for live strandings (especially active sonar) as well as illness and malnutrition. Sometimes a necroscopy is performed.\n\nCertain beaches are well known as likely spots for whales, and other gifts from the sea, to wash up: drift seeds, driftwood, and latterly sea glass and even messages in bottles. Modern recreational beachcombers use knowledge of how storms, geography, ocean currents, and seasonal events determine the arrival and exposure of rare finds; the same applies to those looking out for drift whales.\n\nEponymous coastal features include Drift Whale Bay within Brooks Peninsula Provincial Park on the Pacific Coast of Vancouver Island. Saint-Clément-des-Baleines on the Atlantic coast of France is named after its stranding beach.\n\nPeople have been using drift whales for millennia, long before the beginning of active whaling. However, in relying on the archaeological record, the distinction between first scavenging and then hunting is not clear-cut. \n\nA whale's massive carcass would provide a coastal community with considerable amounts of meat and fat, without the danger and effort of venturing onto the open ocean to harpoon a living leviathan. (An additional resource, in the treeless Arctic, was the long bones, useful for construction.) Whale meat is still valued in some countries; blubber can be eaten (especially welcome in very cold climates) or processed into whale oil, once a widely used fuel.\n\nThe bounty and good fortune inherent in this find are recognised in etymology: \"The meaning of the word 'drift-whale' in Icelandic, 'hvalreki,' has the same meaning as 'wind-fall' – an unexpected good incurred at no cost\", according to Sigrún Davíðsdóttir, London correspondent of the Icelandic national broadcaster RÚV. \n\nTwo anthropologists, Thomas Talbot Waterman and Alfred Louis Kroeber, who worked with Yurok informants in California, classified drift whales as a gathered resource, rather than a product of hunting, as those beneficiaries ran no risk.\n\nCoastal people around the world came up with a technique called dolphin drive hunting, which exploits the animals' tendency to beach themselves. This sort of hunt, which depends on substantial community co-operation, still continues in a few places, as far apart as the North Atlantic (Whaling in the Faroe Islands), the South Pacific (Malaita dolphin drive hunt), and Japan (Taiji dolphin drive hunt). \n\nIt is harder to find evidence, archaeological or ethnographic, of North American indigenous people hunting large whales before cultural contact with Europeans, according to scholars of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.\n\nThe skills learned from processing drift whales, such as flensing (stripping the blubber), may have led to seeking out live ones. For example, the Makah of Washington State have been hunting grey whales for at least 1500 years, but were harvesting stranded whales for many centuries before that. On the other side of North America, drift whale scavenging on the Outer Banks of North Carolina led to organised hunts, documented at the Graveyard of the Atlantic Museum.\n\nGraveyard of the Atlantic Museum » Where Were the Whalers? The History and Archaeology of Whaling in North Carolina\n\nWhen the early settlers arrived in New England, they saw from the deck of the \"Mayflower\" a huge number of whales, far more than they were accustomed to see in European waters, according to American historian W. Jeffrey Bolster. \nMarch 1644, in Southhampton, Long Island, saw the first recorded attempt of the New England colonists \"to organize community efforts to hunt drift whales.” The Native Americans had developed the technique of herding pilot whales onto the shelving beaches for slaughter; the colonists observed this, practised flensing the carcasses and rendering the blubber, improved on their weapons and boats, and then progressed to hunting on the ocean. This early drift whaling at Southampton led gradually to the nearby Sag Harbor whaling fleet becoming the biggest in New York State, according to a curator at the local whaling museum.\n\nTribes in Nantucket guarded and traded as sachem their ownership of drift whales assiduously. They were able to use their ownership and early treaties as a way to avoid royal taxes on the products.\n\nSome communities both hunted and scavenged. William Barr, the Arctic historian, gives two examples of the late eighteenth century: the Moravian missions on Labrador, and possibly the Inuit of Hudson Strait, who had a trading relationship with the supply ships of the Hudson's Bay Company. However, Barr assumes that the drift whales were ones that the Inuit hunters (or possibly the European whaling ships) had harpooned and wounded, and the carcasses had come ashore some time later.\n\nWrapped in a thick blanket of blubber, the carcass retains its mammalian heat, and the process of decomposition takes place relatively quickly; once ashore, there is a risk of the swollen whale exploding. That is a rare event, but more commonly, the build-up of pressure inside the abdominal cavity can lead to the extrusion of the whale's penis through the genital slit. A similar phenomenon, postmortem fetal extrusion, can occur to the carcass of a pregnant whale: Tim Flannery wrote that \"A rotting whale could fill with gas to bursting, ejecting a fetus the size of a motor vehicle with sufficient force to kill a man.\"\n\nConsumption of drift whale carcasses, particularly if they have been dead for a long time, carries risks of food poisoning or worse. In 2002, fourteen residents of a Bering Sea fishing village ate \"muktuk\" (skin and blubber) from a beluga whale which they \"estimated had been dead for at least several weeks\", resulting in eight of them developing botulism, with two of the affected requiring mechanical ventilation. The Centers for Disease Control recommended boiling Alaska Native dishes to rid them of the botulism toxin.\n\nDrift whales are a feature of fables and mythology. For example, William of Barkley Sound on Vancouver Island recounted tales to Edward Sapir, which were re-told by Kathryn Anne Bridge in a compendium about the Huu-ay-aht First Nations.\n\nThe chiefs of certain West Coast peoples built private sacred places, called whalers' washing houses, where they could ritually purify themselves. The spiritual preparation that they undertook was not only for skill in the chase of living whales, but also to attract drift whales to their beach. The good fortune of the chief was understood to be tied to the spirit world, and the remains of human ancestors - especially the skulls - were used to ask for \"whaling magic\". The best known of these is the Yuquot Whalers Shrine, associated with the great Mowachaht chief Maquinna.\n\nThe neighbouring Nuu-chah-nulth and Makah peoples used similar shrines to pull drift whales to them.\n\n proposed that drift whales might have formed a considerable summer food resource for people living on the coast of what is now Oregon, before contact with Europeans.\n\nPeoples that value whale meat and blubber have kept an eye out for drift whales, and traded the rights to them, for example bartering access to inland fishing rivers. Specific people may have hereditary rights to drift whales and a particular locale.\n"}
{"id": "40690562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40690562", "title": "E. Theo Agard", "text": "E. Theo Agard\n\nE. Theodore Agard was an American medical physicist and a former director of the Flower Hospital Oncology Center. Originally from Barbados, he earned a master's degree in physics from the University of London, specifically the Middlesex Hospital Medical School division of the University of London, and a Ph.D. from the University of Toronto in the same field. He was a believer in creationism. \n"}
{"id": "54115858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54115858", "title": "GP Federation", "text": "GP Federation\n\nGP Federations became popular among English General practitioners after 2010 as a means to exploit the opportunities - or mitigate the threats - posed by the Five Year Forward View proposals in the English NHS which envisaged delivering primary care at a larger scale than the traditional GP list. It is widely believed that ‘Practices cannot survive on their own – they have to look at ways of making themselves stronger.’ 15 sites were selected in December 2015 to test new enhanced primary care models serving populations of 30,000 to 50,000 patients. Some, but by no means all, Clinical Commissioning Groups have given financial support to encourage the formation of federations.\n\nAs the British Medical Association explains there are many names and many organisational forms: federations, networks, collaborations, joint ventures, alliances. By 2017 it appeared that GP Federations were the commonest titles for collaborative arrangements which fall short of full merger or partnerships. Both the BMA and the Royal College of General Practitioners were keen to support such developments, the RCGP having encouraged them since 2008.\n\n\nDanum Medical Services Ltd, set up in Doncaster by 23 local shareholding practices went into administration in March 2016 after losing contracts for an extended hours hub and GP out-of-hours services.\n\nHorizon Health Choices Ltd. in Bedfordshire went bankrupt in November 2016. It was forced to employ locum doctors which proved unsustainably expensive.\n"}
{"id": "45588638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45588638", "title": "Glomerulocystic kidney disease", "text": "Glomerulocystic kidney disease\n\nGlomerulocystic kidney disease (GCKD) is a cystic disorder of the kidneys. GCKD involves cystic dilation of Bowman's capsule. It can occur with or without congenital abnormality.\n"}
{"id": "48657866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48657866", "title": "Gonin Medal", "text": "Gonin Medal\n\nThe Gonin Medal is an international award given to one ophthalmologist every four years by the International Council of Ophthalmology. The award is named in honor of Swiss ophthalmologist Jules Gonin. It has been said to represent \"the highest achievement in ophthalmology.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51489076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51489076", "title": "Greek cancer cure", "text": "Greek cancer cure\n\nThe Greek cancer cure was a putative cancer cure invented and promoted by microbiologist Hariton-Tzannis Alivizatos (died 1991). It consisted of intravenous injections of a fluid for which Aliviatos would not reveal the formula.\n\nIn 1983, Dr. Alivizatos announced that he had developed a serum that had a 60 percent success rate in arresting most types of cancer, with the exception of extremely advanced cases. He claimed that the serum could attack a protein-like substance that surrounds cancer cells and weaken the body's ability to keep the disease from spreading. Greek health officials ridiculed Dr. Alivizatos's assertions, while the American Cancer Society warned his current patients that there was no evidence that the diagnostic procedures and treatment for cancer proposed had resulted in any benefits for the treatment of cancer in human beings. They concluded that, \"there is no evidence that any aspect of the diagnostic test nor the treatment... are effective in the treatment of cancer.\" In addition they state \"Nor is there any evidence that.. the intravenous injections are safe.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19222835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222835", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Nicaragua", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Nicaragua\n\nWith only 0.2 percent of the adult population estimated to be HIV-positive, Nicaragua has one of the lowest HIV prevalence rates in Central America. HIV was first detected in Nicaragua in 1987, after concentrated epidemics had been reported in other Central American nations. The onset of the epidemic was likely delayed by Nicaragua’s 10-year civil war and the U.S.-led economic blockade, both of which left the country isolated for several years. Relative control over commercial sex work, low infection rates among injecting drug users, and a ban on the commercial sale of blood also slowed HIV transmission. However, the country is at risk of a broader epidemic because of social conditions such as multiple sex partners, gender inequality, and widespread poverty. Many people are unaware of their HIV status and could unwittingly spread the disease. UNAIDS estimates Nicaragua has 7,300 HIV-positive people, nearly half of whom were identified over the past three years.\n\nSexual activity is the primary mode of HIV transmission in Nicaragua. Unprotected heterosexual intercourse is reported to account for 72 percent of HIV infections, and unprotected sex between men is estimated to account for 26 percent, according to UNAIDS. However, it is likely that the former is over-reported and the latter under-reported because of stigma and discrimination (S&D) against homosexuals. HIV prevalence among men who have sex with men (MSM) is significantly higher (7.6 percent) than among sex workers or the general population. A 2002 study reported by UNAIDS demonstrated that infection levels among MSM were 38 times higher than among the general population. The latest study on HIV among commercial sex workers reported by UNAIDS demonstrated a prevalence of only 0.2 percent in that group. As of September 2005, more than half of reported HIV cases occurred among 20- to 39-year-olds, according to Nicaragua’s 2006 United Nations General Assembly Special Session on HIV report.\n\nFactors that put Nicaraguans at risk include early sexual debut; social pressures for males to have multiple sexual partners and take sexual risks; widespread poverty; women’s and girls’ inability to negotiate when and under what circumstances to have sex or use condoms; gender-based violence; and sexual abuse of women and girls. Compounding these factors, access to HIV/AIDS services and information is limited in much of the country due to budgetary priorities and limitations. Moreover, conservative religious and social values make it difficult to talk about sex and ways to protect oneself from disease or unwanted pregnancy.\n\nTraditionally, HIV/AIDS prevention has not been a national priority in Nicaragua because HIV prevalence is low. The National Program for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections was not established until 1998. Before that, the Government of Nicaragua enacted the Law for the Promotion, Protection and Defense of Human Rights of People Living With HIV/AIDS (Law 238) in 1996, but the law did not go into effect until 1999. Law 238 created the Nicaraguan AIDS Commission (CONISIDA) in 2000, which is charged with enforcing the law and guiding the national response to HIV/AIDS. However, CONISIDA lacks the organizational and technical capacity to effectively fulfill its role in supporting government and civil society efforts to assist people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and prevent the spread of HIV. Of particular concern is CONISIDA’s failure to adequately ensure the rights of PLWHA. The Country Coordinating Mechanism, formed in 2000, has a variety of prominent members, including representatives from government; multilateral, nongovernmental, and educational organizations; the private sector; religious groups; and representatives of PLWHA. It oversees the HIV/AIDS grant from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The Global Fund grant is for more than $10.1 million from 2004 to 2009. The purpose of the grant is to build on the existing national strategic plan for HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) by strengthening prevention, care, and support activities; by ensuring comprehensive care for PLWHA; and by documenting all AIDS cases within the national surveillance system.\n\nIn 2006, the government approved a new national strategic plan for 2005 to 2009 and a new national AIDS policy. Current efforts focus on increasing the response capacity of the health sector and ensuring the sustainability of measures and actions taken. The Ministry of Health (MOH) has integrated its HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis programs and adopted protocols for treating co-infected patients; however, it has not been able to achieve efficient coordination of the two programs in practice. Nicaragua is also strengthening primary care and implementing awareness, prevention, and protection efforts.\n\nNicaragua is a partner in the Brazil+7 initiative, a UNICEF-, UNAIDS-, and Brazilian-led effort dedicated to expanding HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care for pregnant women and young people; to offering universal access to antiretroviral medication for PLWHA; and to ensuring universal access to services for preventing mother-to-child transmission. The other partner countries are São Tomé and Príncipe, Bolivia, Paraguay, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, and East Timor.\n\n"}
{"id": "44183786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44183786", "title": "Haab's striae", "text": "Haab's striae\n\nHaab's striae, or Descemet's tears, are horizontal breaks in the Descemet membrane associated with congenital glaucoma. It is named after Otto Haab.\n"}
{"id": "3300228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3300228", "title": "Herpetic gingivostomatitis", "text": "Herpetic gingivostomatitis\n\nGingivostomatitis (also known as primary herpetic gingivostomatitis or orolabial herpes) is a combination of gingivitis and stomatitis, or an inflammation of the oral mucosa and gingiva. Herpetic gingivostomatitis is often the initial presentation during the first (\"primary\") herpes simplex infection. It is of greater severity than herpes labialis (cold sores) which is often the subsequent presentations. Primary herpetic gingivostomatitis is the most common viral infection of the mouth.\n\nPrimary herpetic gingivostomatitis (PHGS) represents the clinically apparent pattern of primary herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, since the vast majority of other primary infections are symptomless. PHGS is caused predominantly by HSV-1 and affects mainly children. Prodromal symptoms, such as fever, anorexia, irritability, malaise and headache, may occur in advance of disease. The disease presents as numerous pin-head vesicles, which rupture rapidly to form painful irregular ulcerations covered by yellow–grey membranes. Sub-mandibular lymphadenitis, halitosis and refusal to drink are usual concomitant findings.\n\nThe symptoms can be mild or severe and may include:\nGingivostomatitis symptoms in infants may wrongly be dismissed as teething. \"Coincidentally, primary tooth eruption begins at about the time that infants are losing maternal antibody protection against the herpes virus. Also, reports on teething difficulties have recorded symptoms which are remarkably consistent with primary oral herpetic infection such as fever, irritability, sleeplessness, and difficulty with eating.\" \"Younger infants with higher residual levels of antibodies would experience milder infections and these would be more likely to go unrecognized or be dismissed as teething difficulty.\"\n\nGingivostomatitis must also be differentiated from herpangina, another disease that also commonly causes ulcers in the oral cavity of children, but is caused by the Coxsackie A virus rather than a herpes virus. In herpangina, ulcers are usually isolated to the soft palate and anterior pillar of the mouth. In herpetic gingivostomatitis, lesions can be found in these locations, but they are almost always accompanied by ulcerations on the gums, lips, tongue or buccal mucosa and/or by hyperemia, hypertrophy or hemorrhage of the gums.\n\nTreatment includes fluid intake, good oral hygiene and gentle debridement of the mouth, as well as oral acyclovir. In healthy individuals the lesions heal spontaneously in 7–14 days without scarring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17101569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17101569", "title": "Hideyo Noguchi Africa Prize", "text": "Hideyo Noguchi Africa Prize\n\nThe honors men and women \"with outstanding achievements in the fields of medical research and medical services to combat infectious and other diseases in Africa, thus contributing to the health and welfare of the African people and of all humankind.\" The prize, officially named \"The Prize in Recognition of Outstanding Achievements in the Fields of Medical Research and Medical Services in Africa Awarded in Memory of Dr. Hideyo Noguchi,\" is managed by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).\n\nThe Japanese Government established the Noguchi Prize in July 2006 as a new international medical research and services award. Release of news about the planned prize was timed to mark the official visit to by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to Africa in May 2006. The announcement of this new international prize also marked the 80th anniversary of Dr. Noguchi’s death. The Prize aims to honor individuals with outstanding achievements in combating various infectious diseases in Africa or in establishing innovative medical service systems. As preliminary discussions about the award were disclosed, Koizumi explained that he hoped that many countries in the world would take an interest in this initiative.\n\nThe awarding of the Noguchi Prize is planned to be a keynote event at the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD). TICAD is a policy forum which Japan initiated in 1993. Other co-organizers are the United Nations Office of the Special Advisor on Africa (OSSA), the United Nations Development Program and the World Bank. Over time, the TICAD meetings have evolved into a major global framework to facilitate the implementation of initiatives for promoting African development under the dual principle of African \"ownership\" and international \"partnership\".\n\n\nHideyo Noguchi was a prominent Japanese bacteriologist who discovered the agent of syphilis in 1911. Noguchi's work would later attract the scrutiny of the committee evaluating nominations for the Nobel Prize in Medicine. The Nobel Foundation archives have been only recently opened for public inspection; and what was once only speculation is now confirmed. In 1914, for example, Dr. Ikutaro Hirai of Kyoto nominated Noguchi for the Nobel Prize in Medicine because of his bacteriological and biological works.\n\nIn 1918, Noguchi traveled extensively in Central America and South America to do research for a vaccine for yellow fever. He traveled to Africa to try to confirm his findings; and he wanted to test the hypothesis that yellow fever was caused by spirochaete bacteria instead of a virus. While working in Accra, Gold Coast (modern-day Ghana), he was himself struck down by the yellow fever virus. His last words were reported to have been, \"I don't understand.\"\n\nAfter his death, Noguchi's body was returned to the United States; but the Noguchi Prize is arguably poised to become a more meaningful memorial than his modest grave marker in New York City's Woodlawn Cemetery.\n\nThe first laureates of the Hideyo Noguchi Africa Prize, like Noguchi himself, are both medical doctors with a career-long interest in epidemiology and public health. They are Dr. Brian Greenwood and Dr. Miriam Were. For the honorees, the Prize represents both an acknowledgment of their past accomplishments and an investment in their prospective contributions in the years ahead.\n\nJapanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda made the actual award presentation; and the Emperor and Empress were present at the 2008 ceremony along with a large number of African heads of state. \nThe presentation ceremony and laureate lectures coincided with TICAD-IV, which was held in Yokohama in late May 2008. This year's conference venue was moved from Tokyo to Yokohama as another way of honoring the man after whom the prize was named. In 1899, Dr. Noguchi worked at the Yokohama Port Quarantine Office as an assistant quarantine doctor.\n\nProf. Greenwood, the Manson Professor of Clinical Tropical Medicine at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), was honored in the Medical Research category; and his laureate lecture topic was \"Malaria elimination – Is it possible?\"\n\nProf. Were, chairperson of Kenya's National AIDS Control Council (NACC), chairperson of the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF) and formerly Professor of Community Health at the University of Nairobi School of Medicine, was honored in the Medical Services category; and her laureate lecture was \"Potential for Improvement in Africa's Health Through Evidence and Persistence in the Spirit of Dr. Hideyo Noguchi.\"\n\nWith significantly large money prizes attending this award, the Noguchi Prize already rivals the major established scientific awards. From the outset, the 2008 Noguchi Prizes—consisting of a citation, a medal and an honorarium of 100 million yen (US$843,668) -- were only intended to be the first in a continuing series; and subsequent prizes are expected to be awarded every five years. The prize has been made possible through a combination of government funding and private donations.\n\nThe Japanese government has commemorated Dr. Noguchi's life by printing his portrait on Japanese 1000 yen banknotes since 2004; and this new initiative intends to do more than honoring the man himself. The Hideyo Noguchi Africa Prize is expected to draw attention to those whose own work mirrors what Dr. Noguchi strove to achieve.\n\nMedical Research Category\n\n\nMedical Services Category\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16204980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16204980", "title": "Hillel Yaffe Medical Center", "text": "Hillel Yaffe Medical Center\n\nThe Hillel Yaffe Medical Center () is a major hospital on the western edge of Hadera, Israel. It serves a population of about 380,000 residents in an area ranging from Zikhron Ya'akov in the north to Netanya in the south, from the Mediterranean coast in the west to Umm el-Fahm and the Green Line in the east. The center is named after Hillel Yaffe, a pioneering Israeli doctor who worked in nearby Jewish settlements in the land of Palestine during the First Aliyah in the early 20th century.\n\n\nAs of 2006 the operations of the hospital are centralized in two main buildings:\n\nThere is also a new multipurpose building, which was designed by the office of the architect Uzi Gordon.\n\nA diverse group of doctors and nurses works at the Hillel Yaffe Medical Center: Arabs and Jews, natives and immigrants. The patients also reflect the diversity of the region's population: urban people alongside rural farmers, natives and immigrants, Jews and Arabs. The hospital thus serves as an example of peaceful coexistence between Arabs and Jews, and of absorbing immigrants from the Soviet Union, Ethiopia and other lands.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5540985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540985", "title": "John Bachar", "text": "John Bachar\n\nJohn Bachar (March 23, 1957 – July 5, 2009) was an American rock climber. Noted for his skill at free soloing, he died during a free solo climb. A fitness fanatic, he was the creator of the climbing training device known as the Bachar ladder.\n\nBachar was born in 1957. He grew up in Los Angeles, California and started climbing at the bouldering hot spot of Stoney Point in the northern San Fernando Valley. After attending Westchester High School, graduating in 1974, he attended UCLA, where his father was a math professor, but dropped out to climb full-time. Obsessed with the sport, he immersed himself in books on physical training and nutrition, and soon was able to outperform his fellow climbers. Fellow students at his high school remember him scaling the exterior high school gym walls on many occasions.\nJohn Long, John Yablonski, Ron Kauk and Mike Graham, whom Bachar met in the early 1970s, all free soloed with him, starting with the classic Joshua Tree route \"Double Cross\" (5.7). He also put up notorious bouldering problems in Joshua Tree such as \"Planet X\" (V6) and \"So High\" (V5). The committing crux move of the latter problem is off the ground.\n\nBachar was first noted for his climbs in Yosemite with his unroped ascents of \"New Dimensions\" (5.11a) and \"The Nabisco Wall\", a three-pitch affair (\"Waverly Wafer\" (5.10c), either \"Wheat Thin\" (5.10c) or \"Butterballs\" (5.11c R), and \"Butterfingers\" (5.11a) as the final pitch). Noted for his physical fitness, his campsite at Camp 4 was filled with exercise equipment, including the hanging ladders since associated with his name. At his peak he was able to perform a two-finger pull-up with of weight in his other hand, and two-arm pull-up with over of weight strapped around his waist. While attempting the bouldering problem Midnight Lightning with Kauk and Yablonski in 1978, Bachar drew the iconic lightning bolt in chalk.\n\nAlong with Ron Kauk and John Long, Bachar was part of the team that free-climbed the East face of Washington Column, ushering in a new age of free climbing with their first free ascent of \"Astroman\". This route, containing numerous pitches of 5.10 and 5.11 difficulty, set a new standard for long and continuously difficult free climbs. He played a key role in making the first free ascent of the technical and difficult \"boulder problem\" pitch low on the route.\n\nBachar posted a note in 1981 promising a \"$10,000 reward for anyone who can follow me for one full day.\" No one took the challenge. That same year he put up \"Bachar-Yerian\" (5.11c R/X) in Tuolumne Meadows with Dave Yerian. A heady testpiece, the vertical-to-gently-overhanging route is protected by 13 bolts (including anchor bolts), each one placed either from a stance (9) or while hanging from a hook (4). Bachar was a vocal critic of climbing tactics such as bolting on rappel, which came into vogue during the 1980s. However, at the time of the first ascent, there were critics of his decision to place certain bolts from hooks, rather than drilling and placing each bolt from a stance.\n\nIn 1986, Bachar and Peter Croft made a link up of El Capitan and Half Dome, climbing a vertical mile in under 14 hours. In the 1990s, Bachar free soloed \"Enterprise\" (5.12b) in the Owens River Gorge and \"The Gift\" (5.12c) at Red Rocks for the \"Masters of Stone\" video series. He was featured in the documentary \"Bachar: One Man, One Myth, One Legend\" (2005) by Michael Reardon.\nBachar lived in Mammoth Lakes, California and was Director of Design of Acopa International LLC, a company which manufactures rock climbing shoes.\n\nOn December 3, 1996 Bachar became a father when his only child Tyrus was born to Valerie Vosburg.\n\nOn August 13, 2006, Bachar was involved in a serious car accident while traveling home from the Outdoor Retailer Trade Show in Salt Lake City. He suffered multiple fractured vertebrae.\nOn July 5, 2009, Bachar died in a free solo accident at Dike Wall near Mammoth Lakes, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46914676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46914676", "title": "Kalman Samuels", "text": "Kalman Samuels\n\nKalman Samuels (born Kerry, September 7, 1951) is the founder of Shalva, the Israel Association for the Care and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. Non-denominational and free of charge, Shalva offers services to individuals with disabilities from infancy to adulthood and their families. Shalva provides a range of therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, recreational activities, vocational training as well as respite and family support. Shalva advocates for the inclusion of persons with disabilities through employment programs, community initiatives, and research. \nKalman was raised in a non-observant Jewish home in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada where he attended Sir Winston Churchill High School. Upon his graduation in 1969 he was given academic and basketball scholarships to the University of British Columbia. After his first year studying philosophy he traveled Europe with plans to undergo coursework in France. However his mother requested that he stop in Israel to visit relatives. Enamored with Jewish culture and heritage, he cancelled the trip to France and enrolled in several yeshivot, and in 1977 he received his rabbinical ordination.\n\nIn 1973 Samuels married Malki Klein and the couple took up residence in Jerusalem. In 1977, their second son, Yossi Samuels, at the time 11 months old, was injured by a faulty DPT vaccination and was rendered blind, deaf and acutely hyperactive.\nAfter 7 years with no communication, Shoshana Weinstock, Yossi's special education teacher, achieved a break through by relaying sign language into the palm of his hand, teaching Yossi his first word, 'Shulchan' (Hebrew, שֻׁולְחָן), meaning table. Malki vowed that if Yossi could be helped, she would dedicate herself to helping other children with disabilities and their families.\n\nDue to their challenges raising Yossi without adequate support, Malki and Kalman established an afternoon playgroup for children with disabilities. Over time, the program expanded to meet the needs of a broader spectrum of disabilities, from birth through adulthood. Today, Shalva offers a constellation of therapeutic interventions, family support, inclusive educational frameworks, social and recreational programs and vocational training to individuals with disabilities.\nIn recognition of Shalva's accomplishments and an ongoing need to expand the availability of special needs services, the Jerusalem Municipality provided the organization with a seven acre property adjacent to the planned Route 16 highway and the Shaarei Tzedek Medical Center in the Beit HaKerem neighborhood of Jerusalem. \nIn September 2016, Shalva opened the Shalva National Center in Jerusalem and has since become an international leader in the field of disability care; housing some of Israel's largest and most advanced facilities for persons with disabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "57077823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57077823", "title": "Lebollo la banna", "text": "Lebollo la banna\n\nMale Initiation of the Basotho Men is known as Lebollo la banna in Sesotho.\n\nLebollo is a cultural and traditional practice that the basotho society follows to construct the manhood identity. It is a rite of passage in a sense that boys or ‘bashemane’ pass the puberty stage and enter the adulthood stage to become men or ‘monna’. Part of the rite of the rite of passage includes a traditional circumcision which is the removal of the foreskin covering the glans of the penis. This practice is commonly found within the Basotho men in the Free State Province of South Africa as well as Lesotho. The prevalence of traditional male circumcision among the Sotho people, who mostly reside in the Free State, is at 57,3%.\n\nDespite much criticism directed towards \"Lebollo\", there is an increase in the number of boys attending traditional initiation schools in post-Apartheid South Africa. This is argued to be due to the resurgence of young men's respect for traditional authority as well as governments support of research reporting a reduced risk of HIV infection when circumcised. There are many government based organisations who provide clinical circumcision however, many Basotho still opt for circumcision at traditional initiation schools due to the cultural beliefs.\n\nTraditional initiation schools of the Basotho are conducted over a period of time (varying from a few weeks to 6 months) in secluded areas away from settlements.\nThese areas are often referred to as 'the bush' or 'the mountain’. The traditional initiation teachers, known as \"basuwe\" in Sesotho, are commonly elderly men with substantial economic, political and social standing within Basotho communities. The 'initiators' (basuwe) perform rituals and also teach the initiates about cultural and health issues. A “monga lebollo” is the one who establishes lebollo in a particular area and owns the particular initiation school. The ‘monga lebollo’ of an area is sometimes given a position in formal education school governing bodies in order to assist and advise schools on the behaviours and needs of the new initiates.\n\nInitiation rites among the South Sotho had by the 19th century become central to both the homestead and the chieftainship. It was the chief who periodically called upon all boys of a certain age (usually those between 16 and 20 years of age) to undergo this ritual.\n\nWith basotho societies being colonised by the settlers in the 1800s, the new colonial government set laws to regulate and restrict the time and location of the practice. The government also sent dispatches to different basotho chiefs from 1944 and 1945 to evaluate whether the laws were obeyed by the basotho communities. Basotho Chiefs such as Kgama, Sebele, Lentswe and Bathoeng were praised for having been loyal to the laws of the colonial governments administrative High Commissioner on Initiation. Chief Lentshwe had been successfully practicing male initiation since his reign began in 1874, and was able to name eight mophato (regiments). Eighteen years later, Chief Lentshwe was converted to Western Christianity which prohibited him from supporting traditional Sotho practices such as Lebolla. He declared that there would be no initiation practice by his people however, people continued to prepare themselves for initiation.\n\nIn 1902 Chief Lentshwe authorised an initiation school after much persuasion from his people. The Basotho Initiation ritual did not occur again until 1975 when other chiefs took over and reintroduced the practice. Before 1975, parents who took their children to the ‘bush school’, were excommunicated from the Christian church community, along with their children. In order to be accepted back into the community, the rebellious families had to undergo church rituals of repentance and cleansing. Currently, not all community members practice initiation. However certain families uphold this practice.\n\nThe age of initiation has changed as initiators did not initiate school learners in the past, or any child under the age of 24 years. Males who were over the age of 24 were referred to as ‘Batlankana’ as they had passed their adolescent stage and were ready to uphold their family social responsibilities as per customs and traditions. Currently, most of the initiates from the Free State and Lesotho attend initiation between the ages of 12 and 15 with only a few initiated above the age of 15. The boys usually attend the initiation school during the holiday break between primary school and high school. Changes to the age of initiates is influenced by migration patterns of adult males leaving their homestead to work in cities or mines, and South African laws which require children to attend school. Generally speaking, an initiation school is open to young pubescent males, but in some cases adults, married or unmarried, with or without children, can also attend such a school in cases where the particular individual could not attend such a school while still young.\n\nThe initiate practice can be classified into 3 stages namely the Separation Stage, the Transitional Stage and the Incorporation Stage. The Psychosocial Theory by Erik Erikson provides a basic tool of analysis to examine the phases of initiation for the basotho boys.\n\nDuring the Separation Stage, the boys are separated from all social activities and kept in a secluded place where their transition from adolescence into adulthood or from boyhood into manhood takes place.\nDuring the Transitional Stage the initiates are educated on the social concepts of their identities. After the physical circumcision, the boys’ open wound is dressed with a special plant which aids healing. For about 8 days after the surgical procedure, a traditional nurse or “ikhankatha” provides nursing care and performs daily dressing of wounds and takes care of the young men. Traditional bandages are used for dressing the wounds of the initiates. The initiates are housed in lodges called “mophato”.\n\nThe initiates rise early each day to perform a variety of tasks, and thereafter undergo a harsh physical regimen. Skills, such as warfare and cattle-raiding are taught and improved. Initiates are also taught to compose praises and songs to their chiefs and to themselves, the proper expression or articulation of which constitutes the important adult (male) quality of eloquence or “bokheleke. The initiates are tutored on the knowledge of family life, including sexuality which is dealt with extensively. The texts of praise poems (lithoko) refer to a wide range of phenomena, including historical occurrences where former basotho chiefs featured, and significant experiences in the life of the initiates. Initiates often receive beatings when they fail to grasp these skills with ease.\n\nAfter completion of the training period, the initiates leave all their clothing behind in the lodge, which is then set alight by the instructors. The young men then run ahead without looking back at their childhood, which has symbolically ended with the burning of the lodge.\nThe initiates arrive at their villages smeared with red ochre and covered in their traditional basotho blankets while surrounded by men and elders, where they are given a new set of clothes. A large feast commences shortly thereafter and each new initiate is given an opportunity to verbalise his own self-composed praise.\n\nThe Incorporation Stage occurs when the newly initiated Basotho men are incorporated into society. They are given new names, which are selected for each individual and confirms the 'man’s existence,' as well as blankets to wear as a proof that they have reached the manhood stage. Sometimes the names given after initiation become more popular than the names given at birth. One well known example of this is that of Lepoqo, who later became Letlama after initiation and later still Moshoeshoe, the founder of the South Sotho nation.\n\nInitiates are then allowed to participate in social and economic activities. It is considered taboo for newly initiated men to share details of Lebollo with females and males who have not been to initiation school. Men who are working, married and initiated see those that are not circumcised, as inferior. The un-initiated are often ridiculed for not practicing their cultures, and are sometimes seen as “weak” men.\n\nThere are varying opinions on whether traditional initiation schools make a positive or negative contribution to the behaviour of initiated basotho boys and men. Proponents of \"lebolla\" believe that \"lebolla\" produces good moral values in boys and men and contributes to society by creating responsible law abiding citizens. The newly initiated, who are seen as 'men' by the larger traditional society, are still seen as \"boys\" by the formal education system which means that the 'manhood status' granted by the ritual is situational.\n\nOpponents of the initiation schools believe that \"lebolla\" has little effect to the actions and behaviour of the initiated boys and men. Many formal school teachers struggle to deal with boys returning from initiation schools due to deviant behaviour such as a refusal to participate in class, acting with disdain towards female teachers and uninitiated male teachers as well as involvement in gangster activities.\n\nThe traditional responsibilities after initiation include taking care of their fathers’ homesteads, working hard to support themselves and their families, upholding their clan name and being present at all family and ritual ceremony gatherings. Additionally the initiate is expected to be brave, prove to be a responsible male adult, respect other people, have self-respect and self-disciple and be independent, as well as law abiding. However, the responsibilities of an initiate have changed throughout time to meet modern societal needs including not abusing alcohol, avoiding imprisonment or criminal activities, avoiding multiple sexual partners, avoiding contracting HIV/AIDS and attaining an education in order to become a financial provider. Privileges after initiation include receiving respect from women and those who have not yet attended initiation schools, sitting and eating with initiated men during rituals and ceremonies, as well as gaining general respect from all members of the community.\n\nAccording to the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities in South Africa, approximately 251 male youths died between 2014 and 2016 while attending initiation schools throughout South Africa. During a period of 36 weeks between 2014 and 2016 about 10 deaths occurred due to complications of traditional circumcision. There was a total of 22 documented deaths related to circumcision between June 2012 to January 2017.\n\nComplications arise in the traditional initiation schools when the traditional surgeons use blunt and unsterilized instruments which causes infection and sepsis. Further negative effects occur when the physical punishment for lapses, such as forgetting the words of a chant, becomes so severe that they result in some initiates being beaten to death. \nThe National House of Traditional Leaders, which has national authority over traditional initiations in South Africa, believes that it would be better able to control initiation rites if it was given real power to make laws. The traditional leaders of the national house rejected a proposal by the government suggesting boys being circumcised in hospitals instead of ‘the bush’. The House argued that the attendance of an initiation school is not only about the physical removal of the foreskin, but also about the promotion of cultural activities, although they acknowledge that beating the initiates is not a cultural activity.\n\nMany Traditional leaders accept that no initiation schools should run concurrently with academic schools. The Free State Initiation Schools Health Act of 2004 was promulgated with the specific purpose to provide for the adherence to health standards in traditional initiation schools as well as to provide for the granting of permission for the performance of circumcision operations. The act also makes provisions for the approval process by which initiation schools are to be established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9056395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9056395", "title": "List of hospitals in Karachi", "text": "List of hospitals in Karachi\n\nThe following is a list of major hospitals in Karachi, organized by country subdivisions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19542590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542590", "title": "List of sexology organizations", "text": "List of sexology organizations\n\nThis is a list of organizations and institutions of professional sexologists, sex researchers, and sexual behavior scientists. These do not include organizations of non-professionals, political advocacy or activist groups (although some organizations may engage in some advocacy as one of their activities), self-help or social groups, groups of enthusiasts for a topic in sexology, or websites unassociated with any actual organization or institution. These organizations and institutions are recognized by their local governments (such as by incorporation) or are administrative units within a larger organization that is.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1677163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677163", "title": "List of stutterers", "text": "List of stutterers\n\nStuttering (\"alalia syllabaris\"), also known as stammering (\"alalia literalis\" or \"anarthria literalis\"), is a speech disorder in which the flow of speech is disrupted by involuntary repetitions and prolongations of sounds, syllables, words or phrases, and involuntary silent pauses or blocks during which the person who stutters is unable to produce sounds. The exact etiology of stuttering is unknown; both genetics and neurophysiology are thought to contribute. There are many treatments and speech-language pathology techniques available that may help increase fluency in some stutterers to the point where an untrained ear cannot identify a problem; however, there is essentially no cure for the disorder at present.\n\nPeople who stutter include British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, orator Demosthenes, King George VI, actor James Earl Jones, and country singer Mel Tillis. Churchill, whose stutter was particularly apparent to 1920s writers, was one of the 30% of stutterers who have an associated speech disorder—a lisp in his case—yet led his nation through World War II. Demosthenes stammered and was inarticulate as a youth, yet, through dedicated practice, using methods such as placing pebbles in his mouth, became a great orator of Ancient Greece. King George VI hired speech therapist Lionel Logue to enable him to speak to his Empire, and Logue effectively helped him accomplish this goal. This training and its results are the focus of the 2010 film \"The King's Speech\". James Earl Jones has stated he was mute for many years of his youth yet he became an actor noted for the power of his voice. Mel Tillis stutters when talking but not when singing. Many people had their speech impediment only as a child and have overcome their condition.\n\n \n\n99. | Muhammad Ahsan Irfan (July 14, 2004) Student D.G cement company.\n"}
{"id": "3584605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3584605", "title": "Martyrs' Day (Panama)", "text": "Martyrs' Day (Panama)\n\nMartyrs' Day () is a Panamanian day of national mourning which commemorates the January 9, 1964 anti-American riots over sovereignty of the Panama Canal Zone. The riot started after a Panamanian flag was torn and Panamanian students were killed during a conflict with Canal Zone Police officers and Canal Zone residents. It is also known as the Flag Incident or Flag Protests.\n\nU.S. Army units became involved in suppressing the violence after Canal Zone police were overwhelmed, and after three days of fighting, about 22 Panamanians and four U.S. soldiers were killed. The incident is considered to be a significant factor in the U.S. decision to transfer control of the Canal Zone to Panama through the 1977 Torrijos–Carter Treaties.\n\nAfter Panama gained independence from Colombia in 1903, with the assistance of the U.S., there was resentment amongst some Panamanians as a result of the Hay–Bunau-Varilla Treaty, which ceded control of the Panama Canal Zone to the U.S. \"in perpetuity\" in exchange for a 10 million dollar initial payment and yearly 250 thousand dollar payments thereafter. In addition, the United States Government purchased title to all the lands in the Canal Zone from the private owners. The Canal Zone, primarily consisting of the Panama Canal, was a strip of land running from the Pacific Ocean to the Caribbean and had its own police, schools, ports and post offices. The Canal Zone became U.S. territory (de facto if not de jure).\n\nIn January 1963, U.S. President John F. Kennedy agreed to fly Panama's flag alongside the U.S. flag at all non-military sites in the Canal Zone where the U.S. flag was flown. However, Kennedy was assassinated before his orders were carried out. One month after Kennedy's death, Panama Canal Zone Governor Robert J. Fleming, Jr. issued a decree limiting Kennedy's order. The U.S. flag would no longer be flown outside Canal Zone schools, police stations, post offices or other civilian locations where it had been flown, but Panama's flag would not be flown either. The governor's order infuriated many Zonians, who interpreted it as a U.S. renunciation of sovereignty over the Canal Zone.\n\nIn response, outraged Zonians began flying the U.S. flag anywhere they could. After the first U.S. flag to be raised at Balboa High School (a public high school in the Canal Zone) was taken down by school officials, the students walked out of class, raised another flag, and posted guards to prevent its removal. Most Zonian adults sympathized with the student demonstrators.\n\nIn what was to prove a miscalculation of the volatility of the situation, Governor Fleming departed for a meeting in Washington, D.C. on the afternoon of January 9, 1964. For him and many others, the U.S.-Panama relationship was at its peak. The exploding situation caught up with the Governor while he was still en route to the U.S. over the Caribbean.\n\nWhile a Panamanian response to the flag raisings by the Zonians was expected, the crisis took most Americans by surprise. Several years later, Lyndon B. Johnson wrote in his memoirs that: \"When I heard about the students' action, I was certain we were in for trouble.\"\n\nThe news of the actions of the Balboa High School reached the students at the Instituto Nacional, Panama's top public high school. Led by 17-year-old Guillermo Guevara Paz, 150 to 200 demonstrating students from the institute, crossed the street into the Canal Zone and marched through the neighborhoods to Balboa High School, carrying their school's Panamanian flag and a sign proclaiming their country's sovereignty over the U.S. Canal Zone. They had first informed their school principal and the Canal Zone authorities of their plans before setting out on their march. Their intention was to raise the Panamanian flag on the Balboa High School flagpole and remove the U.S. flag.\n\nAt Balboa High, the Panamanian students were met by Canal Zone police and a crowd of Zonian students and adults. After negotiations between the Panamanian students and the police, a small group was allowed to approach the flagpole, while police kept the main group back.\n\nA half-dozen Panamanian students, carrying their flag, approached the flagpole. In response, the Zonians surrounded the flagpole, sang the \"Star Spangled Banner\", and rejected the deal between the police and the Panamanian students. Scuffling broke out. The Panamanians were driven back by the Zonian civilians and police. In the course of the scuffle, Panama's flag was torn.\n\nThe flag in question had historical significance. In 1947, students from the Instituto Nacional had carried it in demonstrations opposing the Filos-Hines Treaty and demanding the withdrawal of U.S. military bases. Independent investigators of the events of January 9, 1964 later noted that the flag was made of flimsy silk, this is not historical fact though.\n\nThere are conflicting claims about how the flag was torn. Canal Zone Police Captain Gaddis Wall, who was in charge of the police at the scene, denies any American culpability. He claims that the Panamanian students stumbled and accidentally tore their own flag. David M. White, an apprentice telephone technician with the Panama Canal Company, stated that \"the police gripped the students, who were four or five abreast, under the shoulders in the armpits and edged them forward. One of the students fell or tripped and I believe when he went down the old flag was torn.\" However we must take into account that this is all hearsay.\n\nOne of the Panamanian flag bearers, Eligio Carranza, said that \"they started shoving us and trying to wrest the flag from us, all the while insulting us. A policeman wielded his club which ripped our flag. The captain tried to take us where the others Panamanian students were. On the way through the mob, pulled and tore our flag.\"\n\nTo this day, the issue remains highly contentious, with both sides saying the other instigated the conflict.\n\nAs word of the flag desecration incident spread, angry Panamanian crowds formed along and across the border between Panama City and the Canal Zone. At several points demonstrators stormed into the zone, planting Panamanian flags. Canal Zone police tear gassed them. Rocks were thrown, causing injuries to several of the police officers. The police responded by opening fire.\n\nCanal Zone authorities asked the Guardia Nacional (Panama's Armed Forces) to suppress the disturbances. The Guardia stayed absent.\nMeanwhile, demonstrators began to tear down the \"Fence of Shame\" located in the Canal Zone, a safety feature alongside a busy highway. Panamanians were tear gassed, and then several were shot. One of the most famous photographs of what Panamanians know as Martyrs' Day shows two demonstrators, one bearing a Panamanian flag, climbing over Fence of Shame at Ancon. The opinion of most Panamanians, and most Latin Americans generally, about the fence in question was expressed a few days later by Colombia's ambassador to the Organization of American States: \"In Panama there exists today another Berlin Wall.\"\n\nThe Panamanian crowds grew as nightfall came, and by 8 p.m. the Canal Zone Police Department was overwhelmed. Some 80 to 85 police faced a hostile crowd of at least 5,000, and estimated by some sources to be 30,000 or more, all along and across the border between Panama City and the Canal Zone. When the lieutenant governor came to survey the scene, the protestors stoned his car.\nAt the request of Lieutenant Governor Parkers, General Andrew P. O'Meara, commander of the U.S. Southern Command, assumed authority over the Canal Zone. The U.S. Army's 193rd Infantry Brigade was deployed at about 8:35 p.m.\n\nAmerican-owned businesses in Panama City were set afire. The recently dedicated Pan Am building (which, despite housing an American corporation, was Panamanian-owned) was completely gutted. The next morning, the bodies of six Panamanians were found in the wreckage.\n\nSome reporters alleged one giant communist plot, with Christian Democrats, Socialists, student government leaders and a host of others controlled by the hand of Fidel Castro. However, it seems that Panama's communists were caught by surprise by the outbreak of violence and commanded the allegiance of only a small minority of those who rioted on the Day of the Martyrs. A good indication of the relative communist strength came two weeks after the confrontations, when the Catholic Church sponsored a memorial rally for the fallen, which was attended by some 40,000 people. A rival communist commemoration on the same day drew only 300 participants.\n\nThe United States Embassy was ordered to burn all sensitive documents. A number of U.S. citizen residents of Panama City, particularly military personnel and their families who were unable to get housing on base, were forced to flee their homes. There were many instances in which Panamanians gave refuge to Americans who were endangered in Panama City and elsewhere. \nThe confrontation was not contained in the Panama City area. Word of the fighting quickly spread all over Panama by radio, television and private telephone calls. The incomplete censorship had the side effect of contributing to wild rumors on all sides. One popular but inaccurate Zonian rumor, fueled in part by references to the \"American Canal Zone\" in U.S. news media, that the Panama Canal Zone had been renamed \"United States Canal Zone\" and would henceforth be an outright possession of the United States.\n\nNews and rumor instantly traveled the 49 miles from Panama's south coast to its north coast. The country's second city, Colón, which abuts the city of Cristóbal, then part of the Canal Zone, erupted within a few hours after the start of hostilities on the Pacific side. Intense fighting continued for the next two days. \nUnlike in Panama City, Panamanian authorities in Colón had made early attempts to separate the combatants. Some incidents also happened in other cities all over Panama.\n\nAs the angry Panamanian mob turned their wrath against targets in Panama City, a number of people were shot to death under controversial circumstances. The final death toll was 28 people.\n\nAscanio Arosemena, a 19-year-old student, was shot from behind, through the shoulder and thorax. He became the first of Panama's \"martyrs,\" as those who fell on January 9, 1964, and the following few days were to become known. Witnesses say that Arosemena died while helping to evacuate wounded protesters from the danger zone. The witnesses appear to be corroborated by a photograph of Arosemena supporting an injured man, said to have been taken shortly before he was shot. The building where it all started, the former Balboa High School today bears his name, and is one of the buildings of the Panama Canal Authority, the Panamanian Government Agency created to run the Canal starting from mid-day December 31, 1999.\n\nA six-month-old girl, Maritza Ávila Alabarca, died with respiratory problems while her neighborhood was gassed by the U.S. Army with CS tear gas. The U.S. denied that the infant's death was linked to the use of CS tear gas, in keeping with its claim that it is not a lethal agent.\n\nVarious U.S. accounts claim that all Panamanians who were shot to death were either rioters or else shot by other Panamanians.\n\nVarious Panamanian versions blame all Panamanian deaths on U.S. forces, though those who died in the Pan American Airlines building fire can not reasonably be said to have died at the hands of American forces. Some Panamanians may have been hit by bullets fired by Panamanians but intended for American targets. A definitive accounting of all deaths in the events of January 1964 has yet to be published, and may never be published.\n\nThe official Canal Zone Police version is that the police did not shoot directly at anybody, but only fired over the heads or at the feet of rioters. The police version was disputed by independent investigators, who found that the police fired directly into the crowds and killed Arosemena and a number of other Panamanians. DENI ballistics experts claim that six Panamanians were killed by .38 caliber Smith & Wesson police revolvers fired by the Canal Zone Police.\n\nThe list of Panama's martyrs can be found at the martyrs Memorial in the former Balboa High School in Panama City. The 21 as listed there include: Maritza Ávila Alabarca, Ascanio Arosemena, Rodolfo Sánchez Benítez, Luis Bonilla, Alberto Constance, Gonzalo Crance, Teofilo De La Torre, José Del Cid, Victor Garibaldo, José Gil, Ezequiel González, Victor Iglesias, Rosa Landecho, Carlos Lara, Gustavo Lara, Ricardo Murgas, Estanislao Orobio, Jacinto Palacios, Ovidio Saldaña, Alberto Tejada and Celestino Villarreta.\n\nMost U.S. accounts put the number of Americans killed in these events at four, though others put the death toll at three or five. Those who died on the American side include Staff Sergeant Luis Jimenez Cruz, Private David Haupt and First Sergeant Gerald Aubin who were all killed by sniper fire on the 9th and 10th in Colon and Specialist Michael W. Rowland, whose death was caused by an accidental fall into a ravine on the evening of the 10th. Another 30 U.S. military personnel were wounded in operations to separate the Panamanian and Canal Zone protesters. Most of the 17 injuries suffered by U.S. civilians resulted from thrown rocks or bottles.\n\nWhen the fighting was over, DENI investigators found over 600 bullets embedded in the Legislative Palace. Santo Tomas Hospital reported that it had treated 324 injuries and recorded 18 deaths from the fighting. Panama City's Social Security Hospital treated at least 16 others who were wounded on the first night of the fighting. Most of those killed and wounded had suffered gunshot wounds. Some of the more seriously injured were left with severe permanent brain damage or paralyzing spinal injuries from their bullet wounds.\n\nAfter the fighting, American investigators found over 400 bullets embedded in the Tivoli Hotel. Years after the events of January 1964, a number of U.S. Army historical documents were declassified, including Southcom's figures for ammunition expended. The official account has it that the U.S. Army fired 450 .30 caliber rifle rounds, five .45 caliber pistol bullets, 953 shells of birdshot and 7,193 grenades or projectiles containing tear gas. Also, the army claims to have used 340 pounds of bulk CN-1 chemical (weak tear gas) and 120 pounds of CS-1 chemical (strong tear gas). The same account said that the Canal Zone police fired 1,850 .38 caliber pistol bullets and 600 shotgun shells in the fighting, while using only 132 tear gas grenades. According to the Panamanian DENI, out of the 1,850 .38 caliber bullets that the Canal Zone Police allegedly fired directly into the crowd, only six Panamanians were fatally wounded. Of the remaining 2,008 bullets, shells and rounds, the 7,193 tear gas grenades or projectiles, the additional 460 pounds of tear gas, only 15 Panamanians were fatally wounded.\n\nInternational reaction was largely unfavorable against the United States. The British and French, who had been criticized by U.S. administrations for their colonial policies, accused the U.S. of hypocrisy and argued that their Zonian citizens were as obnoxious as any other group of colonial settlers.\n\nEgypt's Nasser suggested that Panama nationalize the Panama Canal as they had nationalized the Suez Canal. The People's Republic of China, the Soviet Union and Cuba denounced the U.S. in very strong terms. From the other end of the ideological spectrum, Spanish dictator Francisco Franco's right-wing Falangist Party accused the United States of aggression against Panama, contradicting the fact that the U.S. aggressors had not entered into the Republic of Panama, but rather the inverse had happened.\n\nSignificantly, other governments in the western hemisphere which had long backed U.S. policies declined to back the American position. Venezuela led a chorus of Latin American criticism of the United States. The Organization of American States, on Brazil's motion, took jurisdiction over the dispute from the United Nations Security Council. The OAS in turn put the matter before its Inter-American Peace Committee. The committee held a week-long investigation in Panama which was greeted by a unanimous 15-minute Panamanian work stoppage to demonstrate Panama's united opinion. No action was taken on Panama's motion to brand the United States guilty of aggression, but the committee did accuse the Americans of using unnecessary force.\n\nThe President of Panama at the time, Roberto Chiari, broke diplomatic relations with the United States on January 10. On January 15, President Chiari declared that Panama would not re-establish diplomatic ties with the U.S. until it agreed to open negotiations on a new treaty. The first steps in that direction were taken shortly thereafter on April 3, 1964, when both countries agreed to an immediate resumption of diplomatic relations and the United States agreed to adopt procedures for the \"elimination of the causes of conflict between the two countries\". A few weeks later, Robert B. Anderson, President Lyndon Johnson's special representative, flew to Panama to pave the way for future talks. For these actions President Chiari is regarded as \"the president of dignity\". The role played by the Panamanian ambassador to the UN, Miguel Moreno is also worth mentioning. Mr. Moreno is remembered for his strong speech against the United States at the UN General Assembly.\n\nThis incident is considered to be the catalyst for the eventual U.S. abolition of the \"in perpetuity\" control of the Canal Zone and divestiture of its title to property there, with the 1977 signing of the Torrijos–Carter Treaties, which dissolved the Canal Zone in 1979, set a timetable for the closing of U.S. Armed Forces Bases and transferred full control of the Panama Canal to the Panamanian Government at noon, December 31, 1999.\n\nTwo monuments have been built in Panama City to commemorate these events. One was built where the flagpole incident happened, the former Balboa High School, today a Panama Canal Authority building that bears the name of Ascanio Arosemena, known as the first \"martyr\" and maybe the most famous one. It was built by the Panama Canal Authority and consists on a covered entryway containing the memorial, which has a name of a \"martyr\" on each column, and an eternal fire (not unlike the eternal fire for U.S. President John F. Kennedy) in the middle, and the Panamanian flag afterwards, in a sort of open-to-the-sky (i.e. no roof) \"square\", on a flagpole.\n\nAnother monument, built in front of the Legislative Assembly, on the former Panama City-Canal Zone limits consists on a life-sized monument in the form of a lamppost, with three figures climbing it to raise their flag. The monument reflects the photograph that was on the cover of \"Life\", in which three students scaled the 12 foot high safety fence and climbed a lamppost and the one in the top had a Panamanian flag.\n\n"}
{"id": "400993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400993", "title": "Mastitis", "text": "Mastitis\n\nMastitis is inflammation of the breast or udder, usually associated with breastfeeding. Symptoms typically include local pain and redness. There is often an associated fever and general soreness. Onset is typically fairly rapid and usually occurs within the first few months of delivery. Complications can include abscess formation.\nRisk factors include poor latch, cracked nipples, use of a breast pump, and weaning. The bacteria most commonly involved are Staphylococcus and Streptococci. Diagnosis is typically based on symptoms. Ultrasound may be useful for detecting a potential abscess.\nPrevention is by frequently and properly breastfeeding. When infection is present, antibiotics such as cephalexin may be recommended. Breastfeeding should typically be continued, as emptying the breast is important for healing. Tentative evidence supports benefits from probiotics. About 10% of breastfeeding women are affected.\n\nLactation mastitis usually affects only one breast and the symptoms can develop quickly. The signs and symptoms usually appear suddenly and they include:\nSome women may also experience flu-like symptoms such as:\n\nContact should be made with a health care provider with special breastfeeding competence as soon as the patient recognizes the combination of signs and symptoms. Most of the women first experience the flu-like symptoms and just after they may notice a sore red area on the breast. Also, women should seek medical care if they notice any abnormal discharge from the nipples, if breast pain is making it difficult to function each day, or they have prolonged, unexplained breast pain.\n\nA breast abscess is a collection of pus that develops into the breast with different causes. During lactation, breast abscess develops only rarely, most sources cite about 0.4–0.5% of breastfeeding women. Known risk factors are age over 30, primiparous and late delivery. No correlation was found with smoking status however this may be in part because much fewer smoking women choose to breastfeed. Antibiotics were not shown effective in prevention of lactation abscess but are useful to treat a secondary infection (see the section on the treatment of breast abscess in this article).\n\nKeratinizing squamous metaplasia of lactiferous ducts may play a similar role in the pathogenesis of nonpuerperal subareolar abscess.\n\nSince the 1980s mastitis has often been divided into non-infectious and infectious sub-groups. However, recent research suggests that it may not be feasible to make divisions in this way. It has been shown that types and amounts of potentially pathogenic bacteria in breast milk are not correlated to the severity of symptoms. Moreover, although only 15% of women with mastitis in Kvist et al.'s study were given antibiotics, all recovered and few had recurring symptoms. Many healthy breastfeeding women wishing to donate breast milk have potentially pathogenic bacteria in their milk but have no symptoms of mastitis.\n\nMastitis typically develops when the milk is not properly removed from the breast. Milk stasis can lead to the milk ducts in the breasts becoming blocked, as the breast milk is not being properly and regularly expressed. It has also been suggested that blocked milk ducts can occur as a result of pressure on the breast, such as tight-fitting clothing or an over-restrictive bra, although there is sparse evidence for this supposition.\nMastitis may occur when the baby is not appropriately attached to the breast while feeding, when the baby has infrequent feeds or has problems suckling the milk out of the breast.\n\nThe presence of cracks or sores on the nipples increases the likelihood of infection. Tight clothing or ill-fitting bras may also cause problems as they compress the breasts. There is a possibility that infants carrying infectious pathogens in their noses can infect their mothers; the clinical significance of this finding is still unknown.\n\nMastitis, as well as breast abscess, can also be caused by direct trauma to the breast. Such injury can occur for example during sports activities or due to seat belt injury.\n\nMastitis can also develop due to contamination of a breast implant or any other foreign body, for example after nipple piercing. In such cases, the removal of the foreign body is indicated.\n\nWomen who are breastfeeding are at risk for developing mastitis especially if they have sore or cracked nipples or have had mastitis before while breastfeeding another baby. Also, the chances of getting mastitis increases if women use only one position to breastfeed or wear a tight-fitting bra, which may restrict milk flow Difficulties in getting a nursing infant to latch on to the breast can also increase the risk for mastitis.\n\nWomen with diabetes, chronic illness, AIDS, or an impaired immune system may be more susceptible to the development of mastitis.\n\nSome women (approximately 15%) will require antibiotic treatment for infection which is usually caused by bacteria from the skin or the baby's mouth that entering the milk ducts through skin lesions of the nipple or through the opening of the nipple. Infection is usually caused by \"Staphylococcus aureus\". Infectious pathogens commonly associated with mastitis are \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Streptococcus\" spp., and Gram-negative bacilli such as \"Escherichia coli\". \"Salmonella spp.\", mycobacteria, and fungi such as \"Candida\" and \"Cryptococcus\" have been identified in rare instances.\n\nRecent research suggests that infectious pathogens play a much smaller role in the pathogenesis than was commonly assumed only a few years ago. Most detected pathogens are very common species that are natural part of the breast fauna and simple detection of their presence is not sufficient to prove a causative role. Furthermore, there are indications that treatment with antibiotics may have minimal impact, and over-all there is insufficient evidence to confirm or refute the effectiveness of antibiotic therapy for treating lactational mastitis.\n\nWhen it occurs in breastfeeding mothers, it is known as puerperal mastitis, lactation mastitis, or lactational mastitis. When it occurs in non breastfeeding women it is known as non-puerperal or nonlactational. Mastitis can, in rare cases, occur in men. Inflammatory breast cancer has symptoms very similar to mastitis and must be ruled out.\n\nThe symptoms are similar for puerperal and nonpuerperal mastitis but predisposing factors and treatment can be very different.\n\nPuerperal mastitis is the inflammation of the breast in connection with pregnancy, breastfeeding or weaning. Since one of the most prominent symptoms is tension and engorgement of the breast, it is thought to be caused by blocked milk ducts or milk excess. It is relatively common; estimates range depending on methodology between 5–33%. However, only about 0.4–0.5% of breastfeeding mothers develop an abscess.\n\nSome predisposing factors are known but their predictive value is minimal. It appears that proper breastfeeding technique, frequent breastfeeding and avoidance of stress are the most important factors that can be influenced.\n\nLight cases of mastitis are often called breast engorgement; the distinction is overlapping and possibly arbitrary or subject to regional variations.\n\nThe term nonpuerperal mastitis describes inflammatory lesions of the breast occurring unrelated to pregnancy and breastfeeding. This article includes description of mastitis as well as various kinds of mammary abscesses. Skin related conditions like dermatitis and foliculitis are a separate entity.\n\nNames for non-puerperal mastitis are not used very consistently and include mastitis, subareolar abscess, duct ectasia, periductal inflammation, Zuska's disease and others.\n\nThe diagnosis of mastitis and breast abscess can usually be made based on a physical examination. The doctor will also take into account the signs and symptoms of the condition.\n\nHowever, if the doctor is not sure whether the mass is an abscess or a tumor, a breast ultrasound may be performed. The ultrasound provides a clear image of the breast tissue and may be helpful in distinguishing between simple mastitis and abscess or in diagnosing an abscess deep in the breast. The test consists of placing an ultrasound probe over the breast.\n\nIn cases of infectious mastitis, cultures may be needed in order to determine what type of organism is causing the infection. Cultures are helpful in deciding the specific type of antibiotics that will be used in curing the disease. These cultures may be taken either from the breast milk or of the material aspirated from an abscess.\n\nMammograms or breast biopsies are normally performed on women who do not respond to treatment or on non-breastfeeding women. This type of tests is sometimes ordered to exclude the possibility of a rare type of breast cancer which causes symptoms similar to those of mastitis.\n\nBreast cancer may coincide with or mimic symptoms of mastitis. Only full resolution of symptoms and careful examination are sufficient to exclude the diagnosis of breast cancer.\n\nLifetime risk for breast cancer is significantly reduced for women who were pregnant and breastfeeding. Mastitis episodes do not appear to influence lifetime risk of breast cancer.\n\nMastitis does however cause great difficulties in diagnosis of breast cancer and delayed diagnosis and treatment can result in worse outcome.\n\nBreast cancer may coincide with mastitis or develop shortly afterwards. All suspicious symptoms that do not completely disappear within 5 weeks must be investigated.\n\nBreast cancer incidence during pregnancy and lactation is assumed to be the same as in controls. Course and prognosis are also very similar to age matched controls. However diagnosis during lactation is particularly problematic, often leading to delayed diagnosis and treatment.\n\nSome data suggest that noninflammatory breast cancer incidence is increased within a year following episodes of nonpuerperal mastitis and special care is required for follow-up cancer prevention screening. So far only data from short term observation is available and total risk increase can not be judged. Because of the very short time between presentation of mastitis and breast cancer in this study it is considered very unlikely that the inflammation had any substantial role in carcinogenesis, rather it would appear that some precancerous lesions may increase the risk of inflammation (hyperplasia causing duct obstruction, hypersensitivity to cytokines or hormones) or the lesions may have common predisposing factors.\n\nA very serious type of breast cancer called inflammatory breast cancer presents with similar symptoms as mastitis (both puerperal and nonpuerperal). It is the most aggressive type of breast cancer with the highest mortality rate. The inflammatory phenotype of IBC is thought to be mostly caused by invasion and blocking of dermal lymphatics, however it was recently shown that NF-κB target genes activation may significantly contribute to the inflammatory phenotype. Case reports show that inflammatory breast cancer symptoms can flare up following injury or inflammation making it even more likely to be mistaken for mastitis. Symptoms are also known to partially respond to progesterone and antibiotics, reaction to other common medications can not be ruled out at this point.\n\nIn lactation mastitis, frequent emptying of both breasts by breastfeeding is essential. Also essential is adequate fluid supply for the mother and baby. \n\nFor breastfeeding women with light mastitis, massage and application of heat prior to feeding can help as this may aid unblocking the ducts. However, in more severe cases of mastitis heat or massage could make the symptoms worse and cold compresses are better suited to contain the inflammation.\n\nNonpuerperal mastitis is treated by medication and possibly aspiration or drainage (see in particular treatment of subareolar abscess and treatment of granulomatous mastitis). According to a BMJ best practice report, antibiotics are generally to be used in all nonpuerperal mastitis cases, with replacement of the antibiotics by an antifungal agent such as fluconazole in cases of deep fungal infections, and corticosteroids are to be used in case of granulomatous mastitis (with differential diagnosis to tuberculosis infection of the breast).\n\nIn lactation mastitis, antibiotics are not needed in the overwhelming majority of cases and should be used only for bacterial infections. Dicloxacillin or cephalexin are sometimes recommended. The effects of antibiotics has not been well studied as of 2013.\n\nAn abscess (or suspected abscess) in the breast may be treated by ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (percutaneous aspiration) or by surgical incision and drainage; each of these approaches is performed under antibiotic coverage. In case of puerperal breast abscess, breastfeeding from the affected breast should be continued where possible.\n\nFor small breast abscesses, ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration such as to completely drain the abscess is widely recognized as a preferred initial management.\n\nOne recommended treatment includes antibiotics, ultrasound evaluation and, if fluid is present, ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration of the abscess with an 18 gauge needle, under saline lavage until clear. The exudate is then sent for microbiological analysis for identification of the pathogen and determination of its antibiotic sensitivity profile, which may in turn give an indication for changing the antibiotics. At follow-up, a mammography is performed if the condition has resolved; otherwise the ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration with lavage and microbiological analysis is repeated. If three to five aspirations still do not resolve the condition, percutaneous drainage in combination with placement of an indwelling catheter is indicated, and only if several attempts at ultrasound-guided drainage fail, surgical resection of the inflamed lactiferous ducts (preferably performed after the acute episode is over). It is noted, however, that even the excision of the affected ducts does not necessarily prevent recurrence.\n\nNonpuerperal breast abscesses have a higher rate of recurrence compared to puerperal breast abscesses. There is a high statistical correlation of nonpuerperal breast abscess with diabetes mellitus (DM). On this basis, it has recently been suggested that diabetes screening should be performed on patients with such abscess.\n\nAlthough there are a number of recommendations regarding the treatment of breast abscesses, a 2015 review found not enough evidence regarding if needle aspiration is comparable to incision and drainage, or if antibiotics should generally be given to women undergoing incision and drainage.\n\nTemperature and severity of symptoms at presentation do not predict outcome; women with sore or damaged nipples may need special attention.\n\nMastitis is quite common among breastfeeding women. The WHO estimates that although incidences vary between 2.6% and 33%, the prevalence globally is approximately 10% of breastfeeding women. Most mothers who develop mastitis usually do so within the first few weeks after delivery. Most breast infections occur within the first or second month after delivery or at the time of weaning. However, in rare cases it affects women who are not breastfeeding.\n\nPopular usage of the term \"mastitis\" varies by geographic region. Outside the US it is commonly used for puerperal and nonpuerperal cases, in the US the term nonpuerperal mastitis is rarely used and alternative names such as duct ectasia, subareolar abscess and plasma cell mastitis are more frequently used.\n\nChronic cystic mastitis is an older name for fibrocystic disease.\n\nAmerican usage: mastitis usually refers to puerperal (occurring to breastfeeding mothers) mastitis with symptoms of systemic infection. Lighter cases of puerperal mastitis are often called breast engorgement.\n\nIn this Wikipedia article, \"mastitis\" is used in the original sense of the definition as inflammation of the breast with additional qualifiers where appropriate.\n\nMastitis occurs in other animals as in humans, and is especially a concern in livestock, since milk from the affected udders of livestock may enter the food supply and pose a health risk.\n\nIt is a major condition in some species, like dairy cows. It is the cause of much unwanted suffering for the dairy cows. It is of tremendous economic importance for the dairy industry, and it is also of concern for public health. The same considerations apply to mastitis in sheep and goats and other milk producing females. It is also of economic importance in the sow, but, in this species, it is not related to public health. In other domestic females (queen, mare, etc.), it is more an individual illness dealt with by veterinary practitioners.\nThe word \"mastitis\" () uses combining forms of \"mast-\" + \"-itis\". The word \"mammitis\" () uses combining forms of \"mamm-\" + \"-itis\". They are synonymous in modern usage, and \"mastitis\" is the more commonly used synonym.\n\n"}
{"id": "51634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51634", "title": "Mens rea", "text": "Mens rea\n\nMens rea (; Law Latin for \"guilty mind\") is the mental element of a person's intention to commit a crime; or knowledge that one's action or lack of action would cause a crime to be committed. It is a necessary element of many crimes.\n\nThe standard common law test of criminal liability is expressed in the Latin phrase \"actus reus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea\", i.e. \"the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty\". In jurisdictions with due process, there must be both \"actus reus\" (\"guilty act\") and \"mens rea\" for a defendant to be guilty of a crime (see concurrence). As a general rule, someone who acted without mental fault is not liable in criminal law. Exceptions are known as strict liability crimes.\n\nIn civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort, for example. But if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability and the damages payable to the plaintiff.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the terms \"mens rea\" and \"actus reus\" have been replaced by alternative terminology. In Australia, \"mens rea\" is now called \"fault elements\" or \"mental elements\" and \"actus reus\" is now called \"physical elements\" or \"external elements\". The point of the changes was to replace Latin with plain English.\n\nUnder the traditional common law, the guilt or innocence of a person relied upon whether he had committed the crime (\"actus reus\"), and whether he intended to commit the crime (\"mens rea\"). However, many modern penal codes have created levels of \"mens rea\" called modes of culpability, which depend on the surrounding elements of the crime: the conduct, the circumstances, and the result, or what the Model Penal Code calls CAR (conduct, attendant circumstances, result). The definition of a crime is thus constructed using only these elements rather than the colorful language of \"mens rea\":\n\nThe traditional common law definitions and the modern definitions approach the crime from different angles.\n\nIn the traditional common law approach, the definition includes:\n\n\nModern law approaches the analysis somewhat differently. Homicide is a \"results\" crime in that it forbids \"any\" \"intentional\" or \"knowing\" conduct that \"results\" in the death of another human being. \"Intentional\" in this sense means the actor possessed a \"purpose\" or \"desire\" that his or her objective (i.e. death of another human being) be achieved. \"Knowing\" means that the actor was aware or practically certain that the death would result. Thus, the \"actus reus\" and \"mens rea\" of homicide in a modern criminal statute can be considered as follows:\n\n\nIn the modern approach, the attendant circumstances tend to replace the traditional \"mens rea\", indicating the level of culpability as well as other circumstances. For example, the crime of \"theft of government property\" would include as an attendant circumstance that the property belong to the government.\n\nThe levels of \"mens rea\" and the distinction between them vary between jurisdictions. Although common law originated from England, the common law of each jurisdiction with regard to culpability varies as precedents and statutes vary.\n\n\n\nThe vast majority of criminal prosecutions in the United States are carried out by the component states in accordance with the laws of the state in question. Historically, the states (with the partial exception of civil-law Louisiana) applied common law rules of \"mens rea\" similar to those extant in England, but over time American understandings of common law \"mens rea\" terms diverged from those of English law and from each other. By the late 1950s to early 1960s, the common law of \"mens rea\" was widely acknowledged to be a slippery, vague, and confused mess. This was one of several factors that led to the development of the Model Penal Code.\n\nSince its publication in 1957, the formulation of \"mens rea\" set forth in the Model Penal Code has been highly influential throughout the US in clarifying the discussion of the different modes of culpability. The following levels of \"mens rea\" are found in the MPC:\n\n\nExcept for strict liability, these classes of \"mens rea\" are defined in Section 2.02(2) of the MPC.\n\nSince the federal government of the United States does not have a generalized police power like that of the states, the scope of its criminal statutes is necessarily circumscribed. Ordinary prosecutions are the province of the states, and only crimes of special federal import are pursued by the federal government. Consequently, Title 18 of the United States Code does not use the aforementioned culpability scheme but relies instead on more traditional definitions of crimes taken from common law. For example, \"malice aforethought\" is used as a requirement for committing capital murder.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada has found that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms guarantees a minimum requirement for the mental state of various crimes. For example, the crime of murder must include a mental requirement of at least subjective foresight of death. For crimes where imprisonment is a sanction, there is a requirement of at least a defence of due diligence.\n\nMens rea needs to be proved by prosecution from offence to offence. If it is a common law offence, mens rea is found out by relevant precedent (\"DPP v Morgan\" [1976] AC 182). Where the offence is in legislation, the requisite mens rea is found by interpreting the intention of the legislation. They must intend to commit the full offence.\n\nMens Rea in the Indian Penal Code 1860 sets out the definition of offences, the general conditions of liability, the conditions of exemptions from liability and punishments for the respective offences. Legislatures had not used the common law doctrine of mens rea in defining these crimes. However, they preferred to import it by using different terms indicating the required evil intent or mens rea as an essence of a particular offence.\n\nGuilt in respect to almost all offences created under the IPC is fastened either on the ground of intention, knowledge or reason to believe. Almost all the offences under the IPC are qualified by one or other words such as ‘wrongful gain or loss’, ‘dishonesty’, ‘fraudulently’, ‘reason to believe’, ‘criminal knowledge or intention’, ‘intentional cooperation’, ‘voluntarily’, ‘malignantly’, ‘wantonly’, ‘maliciously’. All these words indicate the blameworthy mental condition required at the time of commission of the offence, nowhere found in the IPC, its essence is reflected in almost all the provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860. Every offence created under the IPC virtually imports the idea of criminal intent or mens rea in some form or other.\n\nThe general rule under common law is that \"ignorance of the law or a mistake of law is no defense to criminal prosecution.\" In some cases, courts have held if knowledge of a law, or the intent to break a law, is a material element of an offense a defendant may use ignorance as a defense to willfulness if his misunderstanding is in good faith:\n\nCrimes like tax evasion are specific intent crimes and require intent to violate the law as an element of the offense. In \"R. v. Klundert\", for example, the Ontario Court of Appeal found as follows:\n\nNot all offenses require specific intent, and a misreading, even in good faith, may not excuse the criminal conduct. A good-faith belief that a law is unjust or unconstitutional is no excuse, but \"reasonable compliance upon an official statement of law, afterward determined to be invalid or erroneous\" does not constitute a criminal act.\n\nHowever, a law must be worded as such, that it affords that a reasonable person who is not an attorney is able to comprehend the specific acts that the law prohibits. Otherwise, the statute may be struck down as unconstitutional pursuant to the Vagueness doctrine.\n\nThe test for the existence of \"mens rea\" may be:\n\nThe court will have little difficulty in establishing \"mens rea\" if there is actual evidencefor instance, if the accused made an admissible admission. This would satisfy a \"subjective\" test. But a significant proportion of those accused of crimes make no such admissions. Hence, some degree of objectivity must be brought to bear as the basis upon which to impute the necessary component(s). It is always reasonable to assume that people of ordinary intelligence are aware of their physical surroundings and of the ordinary laws of cause and effect (see causation). Thus, when a person plans what to do and what not to do, he will understand the range of likely outcomes from given behaviour on a sliding scale from \"inevitable\" to \"probable\" to \"possible\" to \"improbable\". The more an outcome shades towards the \"inevitable\" end of the scale, the more likely it is that the accused both foresaw and desired it, and, therefore, the safer it is to impute intention. If there is clear subjective evidence that the accused did \"not\" have foresight, but a reasonable person would have, the hybrid test may find criminal negligence. In terms of the burden of proof, the requirement is that a jury must have a high degree of certainty before convicting, defined as \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" in the United States and \"sure\" in the United Kingdom. It is this reasoning that justifies the defenses of infancy, and of lack of mental capacity under the M'Naghten Rules, an alternate common law rule (e.g., \"Durham\" test), and one of various statutes defining mental illness as an excuse. Moreover, if there is an irrebuttable presumption of \"doli incapax\" - that is, that the accused did not have sufficient understanding of the nature and quality of his actionsthen the requisite \"mens rea\" is absent no matter what degree of probability might otherwise have been present. For these purposes, therefore, where the relevant statutes are silent and it is for the common law to form the basis of potential liability, the reasonable person must be endowed with the same intellectual and physical qualities as the accused, and the test must be whether an accused with these specific attributes would have had the requisite foresight and desire.\n\nIn English law, s8 Criminal Justice Act 1967 provides a statutory framework within which \"mens rea\" is assessed. It states:\nUnder s8(b) therefore, the jury is allowed a wide latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intention or foresight (for the purposes of recklessness) on the basis of all the evidence.\n\nOne of the mental components often raised in issue is that of motive. If the accused admits to having a motive consistent with the elements of foresight and desire, this will add to the level of probability that the actual outcome was intended (it makes the prosecution case more credible). But if there is clear evidence that the accused had a different motive, this may decrease the probability that he or she desired the actual outcome. In such a situation, the motive may become subjective evidence that the accused did not intend, but was reckless or willfully blind.\n\nMotive cannot be a defense. If, for example, a person breaks into a laboratory used for the testing of pharmaceuticals on animals, the question of guilt is determined by the presence of an \"actus reus\", i.e. entry without consent and damage to property, and a \"mens rea\", i.e. intention to enter and cause the damage. That the person might have had a clearly articulated political motive to protest such testing does not affect liability. If motive has any relevance, this may be addressed in the sentencing part of the trial, when the court considers what punishment, if any, is appropriate.\n\nIn such cases, there is clear subjective evidence that the accused foresaw but did not desire the particular outcome. When the accused failed to stop the given behavior, he took the risk of causing the given loss or damage. There is always some degree of intention subsumed within recklessness. During the course of the conduct, the accused foresees that he may be putting another at risk of injury: A choice must be made at that point in time. By deciding to proceed, the accused actually intends the other to be exposed to the risk of that injury. The greater the probability of that risk maturing into the foreseen injury, the greater the degree of recklessness and, subsequently, sentence rendered. For example, at common law, an unlawful homicide committed recklessly would ordinarily constitute the crime of voluntary manslaughter. One committed with \"extreme\" or \"gross\" recklessness as to human life would constitute murder, sometimes defined as \"depraved heart\" or \"abandoned and malignant heart\" murder.\n\nHere, the test is both subjective and objective. There is credible subjective evidence that the particular accused neither foresaw nor desired the particular outcome, thus potentially excluding both intention and recklessness. But a reasonable person with the same abilities and skills as the accused would have foreseen and taken precautions to prevent the loss and damage being sustained. Only a small percentage of offences are defined with this \"mens rea\" requirement. Most legislatures prefer to base liability on either intention or recklessness and, faced with the need to establish recklessness as the default \"mens rea\" for guilt, those practising in most legal systems rely heavily on objective tests to establish the minimum requirement of foresight for recklessness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55792587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792587", "title": "Monno Medical College", "text": "Monno Medical College\n\nMonno Medical College & Hospital (MoMC) () is a non-profit private medical school in Bangladesh which was established in 2011. The main campus is located beside the Dhaka–Aricha Highway at Monno City, Gilondo under Ghior Upazila, in the district of Manikganj of Dhaka Division. It is affiliated with University of Dhaka.\n\nIt offers a five-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree. A one-year internship after graduation is compulsory for all the graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council.\n\nHarunar Rashid Khan Monno established Monno Medical College in 2011.\n\nThe college is located in Monno City, Gilondo, Ghior Upazila, west of Manikganj, on the south side of the Dhaka–Aricha Highway. The main buildings on campus are ten-storied academic building; separate hostels for male students, female students,male interns and female interns, Dormitory for doctors & Professors; and Monno Medical College Hospital, the college's five-story, 500-bed teaching hospital.\n\nThe college is affiliated with Dhaka University as a constituent college. The chairman of the college is Afroza Khan Rita. The principal is Prof. Dr. Md. Akhtaruzzaman.\n\nThe college offers a five-year course of study, approved by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC), leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree from Dhaka University. After passing the final professional examination, there is a compulsory one-year internship. The internship is a prerequisite for obtaining registration from the BMDC to practice medicine.\nAdmission for Bangladeshis to the MBBS programmes at all medical colleges in Bangladesh (government and private) is conducted centrally by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). It administers a written multiple choice question exam simultaneously throughout the country. Candidates are admitted based primarily on their score on this test, although grades at Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) level also play a part.\nAs of December 2017, the college is allowed to admit 80 students annually permitting 50% seats for foreigners.\n"}
{"id": "26849468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26849468", "title": "National Support Teams", "text": "National Support Teams\n\nThe public health National Support Teams or NSTs constituted a consultancy-style organisational development and change management service provided by the UK Government Department of Health.\n\nEstablished in 2006, they provided consultancy-style support and assistance to local health economies across England (the UK's devolved administrations - Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland generally having their own arrangements). Each team had access to national-level expertise on specific public health specialisms, including:\n\n\nConsultancy and support services were provided free of charge to public-sector clients including local authorities and National Health Service Trusts. The feedback reports generated as a result of these activities were not published by the Department of Health, although some clients choose to post reports (usually in PowerPoint or PDF format) on their own websites.\n\nEach National Support Team also shared observations with central Government policy advisors on the real-world public health challenges it identified through this work.\n\nThe primary activity of each Team was to carry out visiting inputs to local areas across England, more than 450 of which were undertaken during the existence of the NSTs. These visits lasted between two days and one week, using a mix of in-house NST experts and externally sourced advisors where appropriate. Subsequent change management support was offered as appropriate to the changes recommended, often around strengthening strategic coherence, enhancing commissioning capabilities to respond to public health challenges, or improving operational effectiveness of treatment and/or behaviour change services.\n\nThe overall style of the National Support Teams was planned to be in line with Peter Block's 'Flawless Consulting' approach. The diagnostic model employed was broadly influenced by Appreciative Inquiry, due to its tested relevance to healthcare environments and the emphasis upon positive potential to enhance organisational function (rather than a performance management approach, which initial client feedback suggested would be perceive as judgemental). Recommendations for change were presented at closing plenary sessions to both senior leadership and operational managers with sufficient detail to trigger follow-up action and a delivery style reported by audiences as more memorable than was initially expected of an organisational development input.\n\nNSTs created and published a range of practical guides to achieve public health improvements (several titled as 'high impact changes' guides) as well as summaries of applied learning from their reviews and support work in localities across England. Several of these remain available on the Department of Health website, and a wider range is available from the digital legacy site hosted by the National Archives. The feedback from NSTs to central Government policy teams also informed (and in some cases instigated) the publication of other policy documents including 'white papers' outlining proposed strategic improvements to overall action on public health.\n\nAs outlined in the NSTs' own end-of-project report (available at the Department for Health website ) the NSTs achieved significant results in strengthening the performance of a diverse range of NHS and local government public health interventions, resulting in high approval levels on the part of Chief Executives and Directors of Public Health who considered this to have been one of the most useful services which the Department of Health had made available.\n\nAll Teams closed in March 2011 as a result of the funding cuts affecting several areas of the public sector in the UK, following a perceived need to reduce public expenditure in the context of the international financial crisis of 2007-2010 and related recession. Internal communications to NST staff explained the closure as the result of a decision to abolish all posts not covered by a traditional civil service employment contract; as this included almost all NST employees, the service was to close as a consequence - it was stressed that closure was not intended to imply a comment on the success or usefulness of the NST approach.\n\nSpecialist medical magazine 'GP' reported the regret voiced by public health leaders following the closure of the NSTs in August 2011. Their stories subsequently picked up by \"The Daily Telegraph\" newspaper and BBC News explained how the services of NSTs had been received and questioned the rationale for disbanding them. In response, an unidentified Department of Health spokesperson suggested that the teams were no longer required as they had worked to targets discarded by the incoming new national administration in May 2010, although the teams had continued to provide services used by localities and intelligence brought back into central Government for the rest of that financial year; the spokesperson did not suggest a new means by which continuing aspirations to address public health challenges could now be supported.\n"}
{"id": "40799937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799937", "title": "Otaniemi water tower", "text": "Otaniemi water tower\n\nThe Otaniemi water tower is a structure designed by the well-known Finnish architect Alvar Aalto in 1971. The water tower is located in Otaniemi area, Espoo, Finland. The total capacity of the tower is 6000 m³. \n"}
{"id": "17769149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17769149", "title": "Oystershell NV", "text": "Oystershell NV\n\nOystershell NV is a Belgian pharmaceutical laboratory based in Merelbeke for over the counter products .\n\nEstablished in 1979 in Flanders, Belgium, Oystershell was originally a miller of oyster calcium carbonate for laying hens. In the 1980s it gradually evolved from this agricultural background to veterinary medicines. Since a management buy-out in 2002 it is owned by the current management and the biotech investor Rudi Mariën. The company is primarily involved in over the counter drugs and health products as medical devices, biocides, cosmetics and food supplements.\n\nThe product innovation focus of the company lies with health products in the market segments of dermatology, cough and cold, gastro-intestinal and insect treatment (head lice, insect repellents)\n"}
{"id": "3092778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3092778", "title": "Peak experience", "text": "Peak experience\n\nA peak experience is a moment accompanied by a euphoric mental state often achieved by self-actualizing individuals. The concept was originally developed by Abraham Maslow in 1964, who describes peak experiences as \"rare, exciting, oceanic, deeply moving, exhilarating, elevating experiences that generate an advanced form of perceiving reality, and are even mystic and magical in their effect upon the experimenter.\" There are several unique characteristics of a peak experience, but each element is perceived together in a holistic manner that creates the moment of reaching one's full potential. Peak experiences can range from simple activities to intense events; however, it is not necessarily about what the activity is, but the ecstatic, blissful feeling that is being experienced during it.\n\nPeak experiences were originally described by psychologist Abraham Maslow as \"moments of highest happiness and fulfillment\" in his 1964 work \"Religions, Values, and Peak Experiences\". To some extent the term represents Maslow's attempt to denominate those experiences which have generally been identified as \"religious\" experiences and whose origins have, by implication, been thought of as supernatural. Maslow (1970) believed the origin, core and essence of every known \"high religion\" was \"the private, lonely, personal illumination, revelation, or ecstasy of some acutely sensitive prophet or seer\" (p. 19).\n\nMaslow's assertions about peak experience, along with his famous hierarchy of needs, were widely celebrated due to the theories' focus on the psychology of healthy people, which stood out in a time where the bulk of psychology research focused on psychological disorders.\n\nIn original peak experience research, Maslow utilized interviews and questionnaires to gather participants' testimonies of peak experience. These early studies suggested common triggers for peak experience included art, nature, sex, creative work, music, scientific knowledge, and introspection.\n\nHistorically, peak experience is associated with the psychological phenomenon flow. Peak experience is differentiated from flow due to a number of factors including subjective level of experience intensity: while peak experience denotes a high level of stimulation or euphoria, flow is not associated with an increased level of stimulation. For further differentiation, see \"Peak Experiences in Self-Actualization\" below.\n\nAn individual in a peak experience will perceive the following simultaneously:\n\nSelf-actualization is a concept developed by Abraham Maslow that is characterized by one becoming all they want to be, and can be, by maximizing their potential. A common phenomenon that many self-actualized people experience is called flow, proposed by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Flow has been described as a state of mind when one is using their full potential, completely immersed in their current activity, and are therefore not conscious of time, or anything else for that matter.\n\nSelf-actualized people often experience flow, as well as peak experiences. Although flow and peak experiences are often thought of as the same thing, they are different occurrences. While flow is a subjective conscious process that happens internally, peak experiences are describing an event that has occurred to someone who was functioning at optimal levels. Peak experiences are the actual outcome of an external occurrence, while flow is an internal mental process that may or may not precede a peak experience. Due to the nature and characteristics of self-actualized individuals, peak experiences often occur in their lives with their ability to perceive, accept, understand, and enjoy the journey of life.\n\nPolyson (1985):\n\"Most of the peak experiences had occurred during athletic, artistic, religious, or nature experiences, or during intimate moments with a friend or family member.\"\n\nMaslow (1962):\n\"Think of the most wonderful experience of your life: the happiest moments, ecstatic moments, moments of rapture, perhaps from being in love, or from listening to music or suddenly 'being hit' by a book or painting, or from some creative moment.\"\n\nSpecific examples of when peak experiences often occur:\n\nAbraham Maslow considers the peak experience to be one of the most important goals of life, as it is an indication of self-actualization. This moment of feeling wholly and completely the true self makes the peak experience an essential component of identity. The aftereffects of the peak experience leave the individual to see himself and the world in a new way. He views himself more positively, he views life as worthwhile and meaningful, and most importantly, he seeks to repeat the experience. The peak experience is an exhibition of Maslow’s emphasis on the quest for positive growth maximizing potential as the true goal of human existence.\n\nMaslow also recognized a related but distinct phenomenon of \"plateau experience\". He wrote:\n\nThis is serene and calm rather than a poignantly emotional, climactic, autonomic response to the miraculous, the awesome, the sacralized, the Unitive, the B-values. So far as I can now tell, the high plateau-experience \"always\" has a noetic and cognitive element, which is not always true for peak experiences, which can be purely and exclusively emotional. It is far more voluntary than peak experiences are. One can learn to see in this Unitive way almost at will. It then becomes a witnessing, an appreciating, what one might call a serene, cognitive blissfulness.\n\nAfter Maslow's death, investigation into the nature of plateau experience \"per se\" \"largely fizzled into obscurity.\" However research into the related phenomenon of Self-transcendence is potentially increasing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508715", "title": "Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations\n\nThe Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations, known unofficially as the \"Canadian ambassador to the United Nations\", is the Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations. The position is based at the \"Permanent Mission of Canada to the United Nations\" in New York City.\n\nPrior to 1946, Canada sent representatives to the League of Nations. On three occasions, the Chief of Delegation was the Prime Minister of Canada:\n\n"}
{"id": "1273580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273580", "title": "Pharmacy technician", "text": "Pharmacy technician\n\nA pharmacy technician is a health care provider who performs pharmacy-related functions, generally working under the direct supervision of a licensed pharmacist. Pharmacy technicians work in a variety of locations (usually in community, retail, and hospital pharmacies), but can also work for long-term care facilities, pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party insurance companies, computer software companies, or in government or teaching. Job duties include dispensing prescription drugs and other medical devices to patients and instructing on their use. They may also perform administrative duties in pharmaceutical practice, such as reviewing prescription requests with doctor's offices and insurance companies to ensure correct medications are provided and payment is received.\n\nIn recent times, pharmacy technicians also speak directly with the patients on the phone to aid in the awareness of taking medications on time. In many countries, both developed and developing, the relative importance of pharmacy technicians within the pharmacy workforce has been amplified in recent years, largely as a reaction to pharmacist shortages, resulting in an increase in their numbers and responsibilities; alternative medicine, pharmacotherapeutics, customer care, retail and hospital software systems, inventory management, and infection control.\n\nPractical training, such as completing an internship in a pharmacy, is also often required as part of training for employment as a pharmacy technician. Many employers favor pharmacy technicians to be certified with a national or local pharmacy board, such as by passing a standard exam and/or paying a fee. In the United States, voluntary certification is available through many private organizations. Elsewhere, such as in Tanzania and the United Kingdom, pharmacy technicians are required to be registered with the national regulatory council.\n\nIn the United States, there is no mandated regulatory agency governing the training of Pharmacy Technicians. Each state has a Board of Pharmacy which regulates the licensure of Pharmacy Technicians in their state. Licensure requirements vary widely by state. Some states require training from board-approved schools, PTCB certification, on-the-job training or no requirements at all. There are two National Examinations for the certification of Pharmacy Technicians (PTCE @ www.ptcb.org) (ExCpT @ www.nhanow.com/pharmacy-technician.aspx).\n\nThe PTCB, Pharmacy Technician Certification Board, has enacted a plan to require an ASHP (American Society of Health-Systems Pharmacists) certified Pharmacy Technician education program by the year 2020. This is a hotly debated issue, as training schools have come under great scrutiny regarding the issuance of Title IV loans. According to RxTechExam.com, all that is required to become a Nationally Certified Pharmacy Technician is:\n\nIn Canada, according to a 2007 profile of the pharmacy technician workforce, 43% of technicians work in hospitals and other related facilities, 37% in\nchain or franchise community pharmacies, and 16% in independent community pharmacies. Most (62%) obtained pharmacy technician training from a career college or community college, some (16%) had only a high school education and no formal pharmacy training, while about 20% had some university education. A very small proportion (2%) had trained and worked abroad as either pharmacists or pharmacy technicians. The wide range of technical training and educational attainment likely reflects in part the variety of training programs for pharmacy technicians currently available in the different provinces and territories of the country. Accredited Pharmacy Technician diploma, certificate and college programs are offered in the Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia, Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and New Brunswick. 908\n\nIn provinces and jurisdictions where pharmacy technician is a regulated health profession, professional liability insurance is required in order to practice.\n\nIn Colombia, Pharmacy Technicians are known as Pharmacy Regency Technologists, erroneously called Pharmacy Regents. They graduate of several universities after three years of training. This occupation appeared due to the lack of pharmacists in Colombia, that is why they are commonly confused with pharmacists. The Pharmacy Regency Technicians in Colombia are regulated and monitored by the Ministry of Health and Social Protection.\n\nAccording to the German Statistisches Bundesamt, 66.867 pharmacy technicians are working in Germany (status: 2011). About 90% are working as employees in community pharmacies. Their salary (approx. 1.837 - 2.400 Euros) is part of agreements between employers associations and Adexa.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, Pharmacy Technicians are known as Assistant Pharmacist. They graduate of several universities after three and half years of education And training. This occupation appeared due to the lack of pharmacists in Saudi Arabia in 1990, that is why they are commonly confused with pharmacists. The Pharmacy Regency Technicians in Saudi Arabia are regulated and monitored by the Saudi Commission for Health Specialties (SCFHS).\n\nAccording to the MOH Statistics, there is about 8.471 of pharmacy technicians work in MOH Saudi Arabia 2015.\n\nIn 2010, the Minister of Health, Abdullah Al-Rabiah, issued a decision to stop the teaching of Pharmacy Technicians immediately.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the National Apprentices and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) has developed National Competency Standards (NCS) leading to the award of NVQ Level 4 certification as Pharmacy Technician for the Pharmacy Employees who are with above 5 years of Experience. The NCS is approved by the Tertiary And Vocational Education Commission in 2016 and presently it is being implemented. There are over 10,000 expereinced employees allover the Island will benefit.\n\nThe one (1) year training will consists of subject areas in Compounding, Dispensing,stock management,House Keeping Practices and Customer care development \n\nIn Ghana, a 2009 assessment of pharmaceutical human resources identified a total of 1,637 practicing pharmacists (1 per 14,400 population), 918 practising pharmacy Technicians/Technologists (1 per 25,600), and 1,642 medicine counter assistants (1 per 14,300). Nearly half (45%) of pharmacies and pharmaceutical manufacturers across the country reported having one or more vacancies for pharmaceutical personnel, including 82% of public sector facilities.\n\nIn the area of training, the assessment identified only one pharmacy technologists training school in the country (enrolling 70 students in the Higher National Diploma program).\n\nIn India, Medical Colleges CPR Also known as Mccpr provides full training on pharmacy technician. The basic eligibility in India to enroll in this course is 10+2 or diploma. There are two batches a year that intakes approximately 40 students per batch.\n\nPharmacy technicians in Nigeria make up 75% of pharmaceutical work force and are looking for their council (pharmacy technician and technologist council of Nigeria) reason being the pharmacist council of Nigeria (PCN) refuses to allocate responsibilities that will give them right to practice at community level interdependently. The case was in court and the court ruled against PCN on 12/3/2008.\n\nNigerian pharmacy technicians in collaboration with NBTE are currently saving Nigerian Economy and Nigerians from the professional monopoly played by pharmacist Council of Nigeria (PCN) which led to abundant fake drugs due lack of manpower. This exposed Nigerian to a lot of problems which lead reduction in productivity leading to sustainable poverty. \nNigerian Pharmacy technicians in collaboration with NBTE are able to achieve these by introducing ND/HND in pharmaceutical technology. PCN is doing everything possible to stop this training in order to sustain its monopoly, demanding Federal ministry of education to direct NBTE to stop accrediting the polytechnics while these course are offered in Ghana, Sudan and other countries. The meeting called at the instance of National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) on 25th May 2016 where the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), representative of the Honourable Minister of Health, Federal Ministry of Education, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) and National Association of Pharmaceutical Technologists and Pharmacy Technicians of Nigeria were in attendance; certain issues bothering on the nomenclature Pharmaceutical Technologists, the curriculum and the accrediting body for polytechnic graduates of pharmaceutical Technology were raised. There it was made clear that the nomenclature (Pharmaceutical Technologist) is not new in Nigeria as the training of people bearing the name were trained at the former School of Pharmaceutical Technologists between 19811 and 1985. The premises of the school is being used as the liaison office of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) today. It was also established that National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) is saddled with the accreditation of courses offered by Polytechnics and Monotechnics in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As for the curriculum findings revealed that NBTE is in line with the legal instrument that established the Board. Meanwhile, it was unanimously agreed that all relevant bodies should come together to review the complaints of the PCN.National Board for Technical Education (NBTE)\n\nTanzania has two Pharmaceutical Technician schools: one is a public sector institution under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and accredited by Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, and the other is affiliated with a faith based organization located in Kilimanjaro which offers diploma training. The practice of pharmaceutical technicians is regulated by Tanzania Pharmacy Council, which enrols and enlists them. The country has 0.11 registered pharmacy technicians per 10,000 population.\n\nThe main job duties of pharmaceutical technicians include dispensing, stock management, compounding, quantification of pharmaceutical formulations, and laboratory work. In some areas of the country facing acute shortage of physicians and other clinicians, pharmacy technicians have also been found prescribing.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a Pharmacy Technician now must complete a recognised accredited training program with vocational training to SVQ/NVQ level 3 in Pharmacy Services as well as an academic underpinning knowledge program such as BTEC or National Certificate (NC) Pharmacy Services. In addition a minimum period of time of working as a trainee Pharmacy Technician is needed before final qualification and compulsory registration is required before commencing work as a Pharmacy Technician. Pharmacy Technicians may counsel patients on their medication (under the supervision or direction of a pharmacist, though counselling is not one of the learning outcomes for pharmacy technician training) as well as general dispensing of prescriptions. In community pharmacy, it has been recognised that the role is difficult to distinguish from that of a dispensing assistant with an NVQ2 qualification. Additional training is available to qualified Pharmacy Technicians and can include accuracy checking of dispensed prescriptions (though there is no legal requirement that a person be qualified as a pharmacy technician before undertaking an accuracy checking course), Medicines Management (Hospital or PCT), participation in the running of hospital clinics such as anticoagulant clinics, dosing Warfarin patients under dose banding guidance, or other higher duties traditionally done by Pharmacists.\n\nIn the National Health Service (NHS) Pharmacy Technicians work under the direct supervision of a Senior/ Specialist Pharmacy Technician and is accountable to the Chief Pharmacy Technician/ Lead Pharmacist even if not in a dispensary and work mainly in one of two areas, hospital pharmacy and community pharmacy. Some also work in Doctors' general practices and in primary care trusts.\n\nIn England, Scotland and Wales, since 1 July 2011, qualified Pharmacy Technicians have to be registered with the General Pharmaceutical Council (formerly the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain) to practise and call themselves a Pharmacy Technician. The title 'Pharmacy Technician' is a protected title and requires the user to register with the General Pharmaceutical Council. A Pharmacy Dispenser cannot call themselves or work as a Pharmacy Technician or register with the General Pharmaceutical Council.\n\nPharmacy Technicians in hospitals are graded on the same Agenda for Change banding as nurses and other health care professionals. They start on a set percentage of a Band 4 (usually 75% - an average annual wage of £20,698) as a trainee moving on to Band 4 when newly qualified PhT and can work their way to a Band 8b in charge of a department/area. A Band 8b is the equivalent of a Nurse Lead/Senior Nurse Manager in nursing or other Head of Department in the NHS. Although Band 8b is possible, a successful pharmacy technician can reasonably expect to reach Band 7a in the latter stage of their career, earning an average of £35,898.\n\nRegistered Pharmacy Technicians in the NHS are responsible for the training and development of Pharmacy Support Workers; Senior Pharmacy Support Workers and Pre-Registration Trainee Pharmacy Technicians. Further training and qualifications after initial registration as a RPhT enable them to perform this mentoring role. Pharmacy Technicians in the UK (as with other countries e.g. Canada) are now referred to by some as professionals, although Registered Pharmacists are obviously considered experts in the Pharmaceutical field and RPhTs are subordinate to Pharmacists. The reference to pharmacy technicians as professionals has been subject to challenge.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, about 75% of pharmacy technicians in the U.S. work in a retail setting, such as an independently owned drugstore, a mass retailer chain, or a mail-order or online pharmacy. An additional 16% of pharmacy technician jobs were in hospitals, while others worked for nursing homes, pharmaceutical wholesalers, or the Federal Government. To work in any of these settings, certain requirements must be met. Requirements vary by state. \n\n, the nationwide average hourly pay for pharmacy technicians working in retail or independent pharmacies is $12.26 and for pharmacy technicians working in hospital setting is $14.57.\n\nCPhT is the abbreviation for Certified Pharmacy Technician. The CPhT works directly under a pharmacist, R.Ph or a PharmD. (An R.Ph is a Registered Pharmacist, who is a licensed pharmacist in that state and may have either a bachelor's degree in pharmacy or a Pharm.D.) The profession has different educational and certification requirements in different locales, set by each state's Board of Pharmacy. For example, in order to remain licensed, all Illinois pharmacy technicians hired on Jan 1, 2008 (and after) will need to be certified within 2 years of registration with the Division of Professional Regulation.\n\nAfter obtaining technical school education, an associate degree, or work training, the technician may take a certification exam. Exam preparation may also be provided by some employers. Examinations are offered by two certifying bodies. The first is the \"Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam\" (PTCE), which is offered by the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PTCB). The second is the \"Exam for the Certification of Pharmacy Technician\" (ExCPT) offered by the National Healthcare Association (NHA). Upon successful completion of the examination, the candidate is granted certification. The technician must then complete continuing education to maintain certification.\n\nThere are many scopes of the workplace for the Certified Pharmacy Technician. In a retail setting, a CPhT works under the direct supervision of a pharmacist who dispenses prescription medication (tablets, capsules, gels, ointment, creams, suspensions, injections, and inhalation medications), and must be familiar with over-the-counter areas as well as third party insurance billing processes. In an inpatient setting, the CPhT works throughout the hospital, packing and dispensing medications in satellite pharmacies and to the various nursing units; compounding intravenous medication while using aseptic technique; narcotic medication dispensing and inventorial procedures; as well as documenting patients' weight, height, drug allergies and other needed information in medication records.\n\nTo practice as a Pharmacy Technician in Arizona, one must acquire a license from the Arizona State Board of Pharmacy. There are two levels of licenses: the Trainee License and the Full License.\n\nThe Trainee License is required for our students to practice during their externships. To obtain a Trainee License, students apply at the Arizona State Board of Pharmacy with their U.S. birth certificate and high school diploma or GED.\n\nIn order to obtain a Full License, graduates must be certified by the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board. While going through this process, some graduates may work under a Trainee License.\n\nIn order to receive a Full License from the Arizona State Board of Pharmacy, one must first pass the Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam (PTCE). The Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PTCB) administers this exam and the issuing of certifications. When applying for a Certified License, you will be required to show proof of your PTCB certification.\n\nBoth the Certified License and PTCB certification must be renewed every 2 years. This requires that the applicant successfully complete 20 hours of continuing education before renewing their certification and applying for a renewed license.\n\nThe California State Board of Pharmacy is managed by the California Department of Consumer Affairs. It was established in 1891 in order to regulate the practice of pharmacy and sale of poisons in the State of California. As of 2009, the Board consisted of seven pharmacists and six public members, for a total of thirteen members. All seven pharmacists and four public members were appointed by the governor of the state. The remaining two were appointed by the Assembly Speaker and Senate Rules Committee.\n\nThe Board issues licenses/registration for pharmacists, intern pharmacists, and pharmacy technicians, as well as site permits for pharmacies or other establishments that dispense prescription drugs in the state. All registration, license, and permit renewals are handled by the Board as well as complaints and enforcement actions.\n\nTo be eligible to become licensed as a pharmacy technician in California, one must have a high school diploma or a General Education Development (GED) certificate AND qualify under any one of the following conditions:\n\nPotential employees that have met all state requirements can expect to enjoy positive employment and salary growth between now and 2020. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this positive growth trend is expected to play out in the state of California as well as nationwide.\n\nAround nine percent of the country’s 334,400 pharmacy technicians reside in California and the state is home to the top ten highest paying metropolitan areas for technicians. Employment growth is up across the U.S. overall, with California holding the number one spot for employment growth. Salary growth is notable as well, placing California at number three on the list of states with the highest salaries. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, pharmacy technician salaries and employment figures for California (and the nation) are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nSouth Carolina requires a current Pharmacy Technician Registration, a copy of high school diploma or GED must be submitted, and completion of a formal academic training program accredited by ASHP (American Society of Health System Pharmacists). One must also pass the national certification exam (PCTB), and complete 1,000 hours of practical experience under a South Carolina licensed pharmacist.\n\nThe average yearly salary for pharmacy technicians in South Carolina was $27,000 in 2015.\n\nPharmacy Technicians are trained at Harare Polytechnic. Students graduate with a diploma after three years of training. The program is run by the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare of Zimbabwe. There is an intake of about 35 students each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "149973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149973", "title": "Procrastination", "text": "Procrastination\n\nProcrastination is defined as the avoidance of doing a task that needs to be accomplished. It could be further stated as a habitual/intentional delay of starting or finishing a task despite its negative consequences. It is a common human experience involving delay in everyday chores or even putting off salient tasks such as attending an appointment, submitting a job report or academic assignment, or broaching a stressful issue with a partner. Although typically perceived as a negative trait due to its hindering effect on one's productivity often associated with depression, low self-esteem, guilt and inadequacy , it can also be considered a wise response to certain demands that could present risky or negative outcomes or require waiting for new information to arrive. Various types of procrastination (such as academic/non academic or behavioural/ indecisive) have their own underlying causes and effects. The most prominent explanation in present literature draws upon \"Intemporal discounting, task averseness and certain personality traits such as indecisiveness and distractibility\" as the common causes of procrastination.\n\nA study of behavioural patterns of pigeons through delayed reward suggests that procrastination is not unique to humans, but can also be observed in some animals.\n\nLatin: \"procrastinare\", \"pro-\", 'forward', with \"-crastinus\", 'till next day' from \"cras\", 'tomorrow'\n\nIn a study of academic procrastination from the University of Vermont, published in 1984, 46% of the subjects reported that they \"always\" or \"nearly always\" procrastinate writing papers, while approximately 30% reported procrastinating studying for exams and reading weekly assignments (by 28% and 30% respectively). Nearly a quarter of the subjects reported that procrastination was a problem for them regarding the same tasks. However, as many as 65% indicated that they would like to reduce their procrastination when writing papers, and approximately 62% indicated the same for studying for exams and 55% for reading weekly assignments.\n\nA 1992 study showed that \"52% of surveyed students indicated having a moderate to high need for help concerning procrastination.\" It is estimated that 80–95% of college students engage in procrastination, and approximately 75% consider themselves procrastinators.\n\nIn a study performed on university students, procrastination was shown to be greater on tasks that were perceived as unpleasant or as impositions than on tasks for which the student believed they lacked the required skills for accomplishing the task.\n\nGregory Schraw, Theresa Wadkins, and Lori Olafson in 2007 proposed three criteria for a behavior to be classified as academic procrastination: it must be counterproductive, needless, and delaying. Steel reviewed all previous attempts to define procrastination, and concluded in a 2007 study that procrastination is \"to voluntarily delay an intended course of action despite expecting to be worse off for the delay.\" Sabini & Silver argued that postponement and irrationality are the two key features of procrastination. Delaying a task is not deemed as procrastination, they argue, if there are rational reasons behind the delay.\n\nAn approach that integrates several core theories of motivation as well as meta-analytic research on procrastination is the temporal motivation theory. It summarizes key predictors of procrastination (expectancy, value, and impulsiveness) into a mathematical equation.\n\nThe pleasure principle may be responsible for procrastination; one may prefer to avoid negative emotions by delaying stressful tasks. As the deadline for their target of procrastination grows closer, they are more stressed and may, thus, decide to procrastinate more to avoid this stress. Some psychologists cite such behavior as a mechanism for coping with the anxiety associated with starting or completing any task or decision.\nPiers Steel indicated in 2010 that anxiety is just as likely to induce people to start working early as late, and that the focus of studies on procrastination should be impulsiveness. That is, anxiety will cause people to delay only if they are impulsive.\n\nNegative coping responses of procrastination tend to be avoidant or emotional rather than task-oriented or focused on problem-solving. Emotional and avoidant coping is employed to reduce stress (and cognitive dissonance) associated with delaying intended and important personal goals. This option provides immediate pleasure and is consequently very attractive to impulsive procrastinators, at the point of discovery of the achievable goals at hand. There are several emotion-oriented strategies, similar to Freudian defense mechanisms, coping styles and self-handicapping. \nCoping responses of procrastinators include the following.\n\n\nTask- or problem-solving measures are taxing from a procrastinator's outlook. If such measures are pursued, it is less likely the procrastinator would remain a procrastinator. However, pursuing such measures requires actively changing one's behavior or situation to prevent and minimize the re-occurrence of procrastination.\n\nIn 2006, it was suggested that neuroticism has no direct links to procrastination and that any relationship is fully mediated by conscientiousness.\nIn 1982, it had been suggested that irrationality was an inherent feature of procrastination. \"Putting things off even until the last moment isn't procrastination if there is a reason to believe that they will take only that moment\". Steel \"et al.\" explained in 2001, \"actions must be postponed and this postponement must represent poor, inadequate, or inefficient planning\".\n\nTo a certain degree it is normal to procrastinate and it can be regarded as a useful way to prioritize between tasks, due to a lower tendency of procrastination on truly valued tasks (for most people). On the other hand, excessive procrastination can become a problem and impede normal functioning. When this happens, procrastination has been found to result in health problems, stress, anxiety, sense of guilt and crisis as well as loss of personal productivity and social disapproval for not meeting responsibilities or commitments. Together these feelings may promote further procrastination and for some individuals procrastination becomes almost chronic. Such procrastinators may have difficulties seeking support due to procrastination itself, but also social stigma and the belief that task-aversion is caused by laziness, lack of willpower or low ambition. In some cases problematic procrastination might be a sign of some underlying psychological disorder, but not necessarily.\n\nResearch on the physiological roots of procrastination have been concerned with the role of the prefrontal cortex, the area of the brain that is responsible for executive brain functions such as impulse control, attention and planning. This is consistent with the notion that procrastination is strongly related to such functions, or a lack thereof. The prefrontal cortex also acts as a filter, decreasing distracting stimuli from other brain regions. Damage or low activation in this area can reduce one's ability to avert diversions, which results in poorer organization, a loss of attention, and increased procrastination. This is similar to the prefrontal lobe's role in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, where it is commonly underactivated.\n\nIn a 2014 U.S. study surveying procrastination and impulsiveness in fraternal- and identical twin pairs, both traits were found to be \"moderately heritable\". The two traits were not separable at the genetic level (r = 1.0), meaning no unique genetic influences of either trait alone was found. The authors confirmed three constructs developed from the evolutionary hypothesis that procrastination arose as a by-product of impulsivity: \"(a) Procrastination is heritable, (b) the two traits share considerable genetic variation, and (c) goal-management ability is an important component of this shared variation.\"\n\nPsychologist William J. Knaus estimated that more than 90% of college students procrastinate. Of these students, 25% are chronic procrastinators and typically abandon higher education (college dropouts).\n\nPerfectionism is a prime cause for procrastination because pursuing unattainable goals (perfection) usually results in failure. Unrealistic expectations destroy self-esteem and lead to self-repudiation, self-contempt, and widespread unhappiness. To overcome procrastination, it is essential to recognize and accept the power of failure without condemning, to stop focusing on faults and flaws and to set goals that are easier to achieve.\n\nBehaviors and practices that reduce procrastination:\n\nMaking a plan to complete tasks in a rigid schedule format might not work for everyone. There is no hard-and-fast rule to follow such a process if it turns out to be counter-productive. Instead of scheduling, it may be better to execute tasks in a flexible, unstructured schedule which has time slots for only necessary activities.\n\nPiers Steel suggests that better time management is a key to overcoming procrastination, including being aware of and using one's \"power hours\" (being a \"morning person\" or \"night owl\"). A good approach is to creatively utilize one's internal circadian rhythms that are best suited for the most challenging and productive work. Steel states that it is essential to have realistic goals, to tackle one problem at a time and to cherish the \"small successes\". Brian O'Leary supports that \"finding a work-life balance...may actually help us find ways to be more productive\", suggesting that dedicating leisure activities as motivation can increase one's efficiency at handling tasks.\n\nAfter contemplating his own procrastination habits, philosopher John Perry authored an essay entitled \"Structured Procrastination\", wherein he proposes a \"cheat\" method as a safer approach for tackling procrastination: using a pyramid scheme to reinforce the unpleasant tasks needed to be completed in a quasi-prioritized order. In other words, the procrastinator should postpone tasks with a mental note that one feels to do while engaged in a work that requires their current attentional focus.\n\nFor some people, procrastination can be persistent and tremendously disruptive to everyday life. For these individuals, procrastination may be symptomatic of a psychological disorder. Procrastination has been linked to a number of negative associations, such as depression, irrational behaviour, low self-esteem, anxiety and neurological disorders such as ADHD. Others have found relationships with guilt and stress. Therefore, it is important for people whose procrastination has become chronic and is perceived to be debilitating to seek out a trained therapist or psychiatrist to investigate whether an underlying mental health issue may be present.\n\nWith a distant deadline, procrastinators report significantly less stress and physical illness than do non-procrastinators. However, as the deadline approaches, this relationship is reversed. Procrastinators report more stress, more symptoms of physical illness, and more medical visits, to the extent that, overall, procrastinators suffer more stress and health problems.\n\nProcrastination has been linked to the complex arrangement of cognitive, affective and behavioral relationships from task desirability to low self esteem and anxiety to depression. A study found that procrastinators were less future-oriented than their non-procrastinator counterparts. This result was hypothesized to be in association with hedonistic perspectives on the present; instead it was found procrastination was better predicted by a fatalistic and hopeless attitude towards life.\n\nA correlation between procrastination and eveningness was observed where individuals who had later sleeping and waking patterns were more likely to procrastinate. It has been shown that Morningness increases across lifespan and procrastination decreases with age., \n\nTraditionally, procrastination has been associated with perfectionism: a tendency to negatively evaluate outcomes and one's own performance, intense fear and avoidance of evaluation of one's abilities by others, heightened social self-consciousness and anxiety, recurrent low mood, and \"workaholism\". However, adaptive perfectionists—egosyntonic perfectionism—were \"less\" likely to procrastinate than non-perfectionists, while maladaptive perfectionists, who saw their perfectionism as a problem—egodystonic perfectionism—had high levels of procrastination and anxiety.\nIn a regression analysis study of Steel, from 2007, it is found that mild to moderate perfectionists typically procrastinate slightly less than others, with \"the exception being perfectionists who were also seeking clinical counseling\".\n\nAccording to an Educational Science Professor, Hatice Odaci, academic procrastination is a significant problem during college years in part because many college students lack efficient time management skills in using the Internet. Also, Odaci notes that most colleges provide free and fast twenty-four-hour Internet service which some students are not usually accustomed to, and as a result of irresponsible use or lack of firewalls these students become engulfed in distractions, and thus in procrastination.\n\n\"Student syndrome\" refers to the phenomenon where a student will begin to fully apply themself to a task only immediately before a deadline. This negates the usefulness of any buffers built into individual task duration estimates. Results from a 2002 study indicate that many students are aware of procrastination and accordingly set binding deadlines long before the date for which a task is due. These self-imposed binding deadlines are correlated with a better performance than without binding deadlines though performance is best for evenly spaced external binding deadlines. Finally, students have difficulties optimally setting self-imposed deadlines, with results suggesting a lack of spacing before the date at which results are due.\nIn one experiment, participation in online exercises was found to be five times higher in the final week before a deadline than in the summed total of the first three weeks for which the exercises were available. Procrastinators end up being the ones doing most of the work in the final week before a deadline.\n\nOther reasons cited on why students procrastinate include fear of failure and success, perfectionist expectations, as well as legitimate activities that may take precedence over school work, such as a job.\n\nProcrastinators have been found to receive worse grades than non-procrastinators. Tice et al. (1997) report that more than one-third of the variation in final exam scores could be attributed to procrastination. The negative association between procrastination and academic performance is recurring and consistent. Howell et al. (2006) found that, though scores on two widely used procrastination scales were not significantly associated with the grade received for an assignment, self-report measures of procrastination on the assessment itself were negatively associated with grade.\n\nIn 2005, a study conducted by Angela Chu and Jin Nam Choi and published in the \"Journal of Social Psychology\" intended to understand task performance among procrastinators with the definition of procrastination as the absence of self-regulated performance, from the 1977 work of Ellis & Knaus. In their study they identified two types of procrastination: the traditional procrastination which they denote as passive, and active procrastination where the person finds enjoyment of a goal-oriented activity only under pressure. The study calls this active procrastination positive procrastination, as it is a functioning state in a self-handicapping environment. In addition, it was observed that active procrastinators have more realistic perceptions of time and perceive more control over their time than passive procrastinators, which is considered a major differentiator between the two types. But surprisingly, active and passive procrastinators showed similar levels of academic performance. The population of the study was college students and the majority of the sample size were women and Asian in origin. Comparisons with chronic pathological procrastination traits were avoided.\n\nDifferent findings emerge when observed and self-reported procrastination are compared. Steel et al. constructed their own scales based on Silver and Sabini’s \"irrational\" and \"postponement\" criteria. They also sought to measure this behavior objectively. During a course, students could complete exam practice computer exercises at their own pace, and during the supervised class time could also complete chapter quizzes. A weighted average of the times at which each chapter quiz was finished formed the measure of observed procrastination, whilst observed irrationality was quantified with the number of practice exercises that were left uncompleted. Researchers found that there was only a moderate correlation between observed and self-reported procrastination (r = 0.35). There was a very strong inverse relationship between the number of exercises completed and the measure of postponement (r = −0.78). Observed procrastination was very strongly negatively correlated with course grade (r = −0.87), as was self-reported procrastination (though less so, r = −0.36). As such, self-reported measures of procrastination, on which the majority of the literature is based, may not be the most appropriate measure to use in all cases. It was also found that procrastination itself may not have contributed significantly to poorer grades. Steel et al. noted that those students who completed all of the practice exercises \"tended to perform well on the final exam no matter how much they delayed.\"\n\nProcrastination is considerably more widespread in students than in the general population, with over 70 percent of students reporting procrastination for assignments at some point. A 2014 panel study from Germany among several thousand university students found that increasing academic procrastination increases the frequency of seven different forms of academic misconduct, i.e., using fraudulent excuses, plagiarism, copying from someone else in exams, using forbidden means in exams, carrying forbidden means into exams, copying parts of homework from others, fabrication or falsification of data and the variety of academic misconduct. This study argues that academic misconduct can be seen as a means to cope with the negative consequences of academic procrastination such as performance impairment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44267014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267014", "title": "Real ear measurement", "text": "Real ear measurement\n\nReal ear measurement (REM, also known as insitu- or probe microphone measurement) is the measurement of sound pressure level in a patient's ear canal developed when a hearing aid is worn. It is measured with the use of a silicone probe tube inserted in the canal connected to a microphone outside the ear and is done to verify that the hearing aid is providing suitable amplification for a patient's hearing loss. The American Speech–Language–Hearing Association (ASHA) and American Academy of Audiology (AAA) recommend real ear measures as the preferred method of verifying the performance of hearing aids.\nUsed by audiologists and other hearing healthcare practitioners in the process of hearing aid fitting, real ear measures are the most reliable and efficient method for assessing the benefit provided by the amplification. Measurement of the sound level in the ear canal allows the clinician to make informed judgements on audibility of sound in the ear and the effectiveness of hearing aid treatment.\n\nThe use of real ear measurement to assess the performance of hearing aids is covered in the ANSI specification Methods of Measurement of Real-Ear Performance Characteristics of Hearing Aids, ANSI S3.46-2013 (a revision of ANSI S3.46-1997).\n\nThe first commercially produced real ear measurement available was made by Rastronics.\nHelp soon arrived. In the early 1980s, the first computerized probe-tube microphone\nsystem, the Rastronics CCI-10 (developed in Denmark by Steen Rasmussen), entered the\nU.S. market (Nielsen and Rasmussen, 1984). This system had a silicone tube attached to the\nmicrophone (the transmission of sound through this tube was part of the calibration process),\nwhich eliminated the need to place the microphone itself in the ear canal. By early 1985,\nthree or four different manufactures had introduced this new type of computerized probemicrophone\nequipment, and this hearing aid verification procedure became part of the\nstandard protocol for many audiology clinics.\n\nFirst, the clinician will examine the ear canal with the use of an otoscope to ensure no wax or other debris will interfere with the positioning of the probe tube. The probe tube is placed with the tip approximately 6 mm (1/4 inch) from the tympanic membrane. Next the hearing aid is put in place. The REM system will typically produce a test stimulus from a loudspeaker situated from the patient's head and simultaneously measure the output in the ear canal to determine how much amplification the hearing aid is providing.\n\nThe traditional method of real ear measurement is known as insertion gain, which is the difference between the sound pressure level measured near the ear drum with a hearing aid in place, and the sound pressure level measured in the unaided ear. First a measurement is made with the probe tube in the open ear (Real Ear Unaided Response, or REUR), then a second one is made using the same test signal with the hearing aid in place and turned on (Real Ear Aided Response, or REAR). The difference between these two results is the insertion gain. This gain can be matched to targets produced by various prescriptive formula based on the patient's audiogram or individual hearing loss.\n\nSpeech mapping (also known as output-based measures) involves testing with a speech or speech-like signal. The hearing aid is adjusted so that the speech is amplified to the approximate middle of the patient's residual auditory area (the amplitude range between the patient's hearing threshold and upper limit of comfort) while observing a real-time spectrum display of the speech in the patient's ear canal. Many multi-channel hearing aids allow each frequency channel to be adjusted separately. The aim is to find a good compromise between intelligibility and loudness discomfort. This approach to hearing aid testing is implemented in most current real ear systems and there has been a significant increase in audiologists selecting to verify using the output method. Using a real speech signal to test a hearing aid has the advantage that features that may need to be disabled in other test approaches can be left active, and the effects of these features in normal use are included in the test.\n\n"}
{"id": "333483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333483", "title": "Robert Brown (botanist, born 1773)", "text": "Robert Brown (botanist, born 1773)\n\nRobert Brown FRSE FRS FLS MWS (21 December 1773 – 10 June 1858) was a Scottish botanist and palaeobotanist who made important contributions to botany largely through his pioneering use of the microscope. His contributions include one of the earliest detailed descriptions of the cell nucleus and cytoplasmic streaming; the observation of Brownian motion; early work on plant pollination and fertilisation, including being the first to recognise the fundamental difference between gymnosperms and angiosperms; and some of the earliest studies in palynology. He also made numerous contributions to plant taxonomy, including the erection of a number of plant families that are still accepted today; and numerous Australian plant genera and species, the fruit of his exploration of that continent with Matthew Flinders.\n\nBrown was born in Montrose on 21 December 1773. He was the son of James Brown, a minister in the Scottish Episcopal Church with Jacobite convictions so strong that in 1788 he defied his church's decision to give allegiance to George III. His mother was Helen Brown \"née\" Taylor, the daughter of a Presbyterian minister. As a child Brown attended the local Grammar School (now called Montrose Academy), then Marischal College at Aberdeen, but withdrew in his fourth year when the family moved to Edinburgh in 1790. His father died late the following year.\n\nBrown enrolled to study medicine at the University of Edinburgh, but developed an interest in botany, and ended up spending more of his time on the latter than the former. He attended the lectures of John Walker; made botanical expeditions into the Scottish Highlands, alone or with nurserymen such as George Don; and wrote out meticulous botanical descriptions of the plants he collected. He also began corresponding with and collecting for William Withering, one of the foremost British botanists of his day. Highlights for Brown during this period include his discovery of a new species of grass, \"Alopecurus alpinus\"; and his first botanical paper, \"\", read to the Edinburgh Natural History Society in January 1792, but not published in print in Brown's lifetime.\nBrown dropped out of his medical course in 1793. Late in 1794, he enlisted in the Fifeshire Fencibles, and his regiment was posted to Ireland shortly after. In June 1795 he was appointed Surgeon's Mate. His regiment saw very little action, however, he had a good deal of leisure time, almost all of which he spent on botany. He was frustrated by his itinerant lifestyle, which prevented him from building his personal library and specimen collection as he would have liked, and cut him off from the most important herbaria and libraries.\n\nDuring this period Brown was especially interested in cryptogams, and these would be the subject of Brown's first, albeit unattributed, publication. Brown began a correspondence with James Dickson, and by 1796 was sending him specimens and descriptions of mosses. Dickson incorporated Brown's descriptions into his \"Fasciculi plantarum cryptogamicarum britanniae\", with Brown's permission but without any attribution.\n\nBy 1800, Brown was firmly established amongst Irish botanists, and was corresponding with a number of British and foreign botanists, including Withering, Dickson, James Edward Smith and José Correia da Serra. He had been nominated to the Linnean Society of London; had contributed to Dickson's \"Fasciculi\"; was acknowledged in a number of other works; and had had a species of algae, \"Conferva brownii\" (now \"Aegagropila linnaei\") named after him by Lewis Weston Dillwyn. He had also begun experimenting with microscopy. However, as an army surgeon stationed in Ireland there seemed little prospect of him attracting the notice of those who could offer him a career in botany.\n\nIn 1798, Brown heard that Mungo Park had withdrawn from a proposed expedition into the interior of New Holland (now Australia), leaving a vacancy for a naturalist. At Brown's request, Correia wrote to Sir Joseph Banks, suggesting Brown as a suitable replacement: He was not selected, and the expedition did not end up going ahead as originally proposed, though George Caley was sent to New South Wales as a botanical collector for Banks. In 1800, however, Matthew Flinders put to Banks a proposal for an expedition that would answer the question whether New Holland was one island or several. Banks approved Flinders' proposal, and in December 1800 wrote to Brown offering him the position of naturalist to the expedition. Brown accepted immediately.\n\nBrown was told to expect to sail at the end of 1800, only a few weeks after being offered the position. A succession of delays meant the voyage did not get under way until July 1801. Brown spent much of the meantime preparing for the voyage by studying Banks' Australian plant specimens and copying out notes and descriptions for use on the voyage.\n\nThough Brown's brief was collect scientific specimens of all sorts, he was told to give priority to plants, insects, and birds, and to treat other fields, such as geology, as secondary pursuits. In addition to Brown, the scientific staff comprised the renowned botanical illustrator Ferdinand Bauer; the gardener Peter Good, whose task was to collect live plants and viable seed for the use of Kew Gardens; the miner John Allen, appointed as mineralogist; the landscape artist William Westall; and the astronomer John Crosley, who would fall ill on the voyage out and leave the ship at the Cape of Good Hope, being belatedly replaced at Sydney by James Inman. Brown was given authority over Bauer and Good, both of whom were instructed to give any specimens they might collect to Brown, rather than forming separate collections. Both men would provide enthusiastic and hard-working companions for Brown, and thus Brown's specimen collections contain material collected by all three men.\n\n\"Investigator\" sailed from London on 18 July. They made brief landfalls at Bugio Island (Desertas Islands) and Madeira, but Brown was disappointed to collect almost nothing of note from either site. They arrived at the Cape of Good Hope on 16 October, staying a little over two weeks, during which time Brown made extensive botanical expeditions, and climbed Table Mountain at least twice. Many years later he would write to William Henry Harvey, who was considering emigrating there, that \"some of the pleasantest botanizing he ever had was on Devil's Mountain, near Cape Town, and he thought I could not pitch on a more delightful field of study.\" Amongst the plants collected at the Cape were two new species of \"Serruria\" (Proteaceae), \"S. foeniculacea\" and \"S. flagellaris\".\n\n arrived in King George Sound in what is now Western Australia in December 1801. For three and a half years Brown did intensive botanic research in Australia, collecting about 3400 species, of which about 2000 were previously unknown. A large part of this collection was lost when was wrecked \"en route\" to England.\n\nBrown remained in Australia until May 1805. He then returned to Britain where he spent the next five years working on the material he had gathered. He published numerous species descriptions; in Western Australia alone he is the author of nearly 1200 species. The list of major Australian genera that he named includes: Livistona, Triodia, Eriachne, Caladenia, Isolepis, Prasophyllum, Pterostylis, Patersonia, Conostylis, Thysanotus, Pityrodia, Hemigenia, Lechenaultia, Eremophila, Logania, Dryandra, Isopogon, Grevillea, Petrophile, Telopea, Leptomeria, Jacksonia, Leucopogon, Stenopetalum, Ptilotus, Sclerolaena and Rhagodia.\n\nIn early 1809 he read his paper called \"On the natural order of plants called Proteaceae\" to the Linnean Society of London. This was subsequently published in March 1810 as \"On the Proteaceae of Jussieu\". It is significant for its contribution to the systematics of Proteaceae, and to the floristics of Australia, and also for its application of palynology to systematics. This work was extensively plagiarised by Richard Anthony Salisbury, who had memorised much of the Linnean reading and then inserted it in Joseph Knight's 1809 publication \"On the cultivation of the plants belonging to the natural order of Proteeae\".\n\nIn 1810, he published the results of his collecting in his famous \"Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen\", the first systematic account of the Australian flora. That year, he succeeded Jonas C. Dryander as Sir Joseph Banks' librarian, and on Banks' death in 1820 Brown inherited his library and herbarium. This was transferred to the British Museum in 1827, and Brown was appointed Keeper of the Banksian Botanical Collection.\n\nIn 1818 he published \"Observations, systematical and geographical, on the herbarium collected by Professor Christian Smith, in the vicinity of the Congo\". In 1822, he was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society and a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. In 1827 he became correspondent of the Royal Institute of the Netherlands, three years later he became associated member. When the institute became the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1851 Brown joined as foreign member. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1849.\n\nIn a paper read to the Linnean society in 1831 and published in 1833, Brown named the cell nucleus. The nucleus had been observed before, perhaps as early as 1682 by the Dutch microscopist Leeuwenhoek, and Franz Bauer had noted and drawn it as a regular feature of plant cells in 1802, but it was Brown who gave it the name it bears to this day (while giving credit to Bauer's drawings). Neither Bauer nor Brown thought the nucleus to be universal, and Brown thought it to be primarily confined to Monocotyledons.\n\nAfter the division of the Natural History Department of the British Museum into three sections in 1837, Robert Brown became the first Keeper of the Botanical Department, remaining so until his death. He was succeeded by John Joseph Bennett.\n\nHe served as President of the Linnean Society from 1849 to 1853.\n\nBrown died at 17 Dean Street, Soho Square in London, on 10 June 1858. He was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery in London.\n\nBrown's name is commemorated in the Australia herb genus \"Brunonia\" as well as numerous Australian species such as \"Eucalyptus brownii\", \"Banksia brownii\" and the moss Brown's Tetrodontium Moss (\"Tetrodontium brownianum\"), a species which he discovered growing at Roslin near Edinburgh whilst still a student. The plant can still be found at the site of its discovery. \nPassing through the suburb of Kingston, south of Hobart, Tasmania, formerly Van Diemen's Land, is Brown's River, named in his honor, upon the banks of which, he collected botanical samples. In South Australia, Mount Brown and Point Brown (near Smoky Bay) were named for him by Flinders during the \"Investigator\" expedition. Mount Brown in British Columbia, Canada is named for him.\n\nIn 1938 the London County Council commemorated Brown, as well as botanists Joseph Banks and David Don, and meetings of the Linnean Society, with a rectangular stone plaque at 32 Soho Square.\n\nIn 1827, while examining grains of pollen of the plant \"Clarkia pulchella\" suspended in water under a microscope, Brown observed minute particles, now known to be amyloplasts (starch organelles) and spherosomes (lipid organelles), ejected from the pollen grains, executing a continuous jittery motion. He then observed the same motion in particles of inorganic matter, enabling him to rule out the hypothesis that the effect was life-related. Although Brown did not provide a theory to explain the motion, and Jan Ingenhousz already had reported a similar effect using charcoal particles, in German and French publications of 1784 and 1785, the phenomenon is now known as Brownian motion.\n\nIn recent years controversy arose over whether Brown's microscopes were insufficient to reveal phenomena of this order. Brown's re-discoveries were denied in a brief paper in 1991. Shortly thereafter, in an illustrated presentation, British microscopist Brian J. Ford presented to Inter Micro 1991 in Chicago a reprise of the demonstration using Brown's original microscope. His video sequences substantiated Brown's observations, suggesting Brown's microscope was sufficient to allow him to see motion. Physicist Phil Pearle and colleagues presented a detailed discussion of Brown's original observations of particles from pollen of \"Clarkia pulchella\" undergoing Brownian motion, including the relevant history, botany, microscopy, and physics.\n\nFor a list of Brown's publications, see .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51358811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51358811", "title": "Robert Halliday Gunning", "text": "Robert Halliday Gunning\n\nRobert Halliday Gunning FRSE PRPSE FSA LLD (12 December 1818–22 March 1900) was a Scottish surgeon, entrepreneur and philanthropist. He did much to improve social conditions in Brazil and also became rich there. He endowed numerous prizes and awards including the Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prizes. The University of Edinburgh provides scholarships under the title of Gunning Victoria Jubilee Bursaries. He was a close friend of both Thomas Chalmers and Robert Christison.\n\nHe was born Richard Halliday Gunnion on 12 December 1818 at Wood House in Ruthwell on the southern coast of Dumfriesshire. He was the eighth of ten children of Elizabeth Affleck McWilliam and James Gunnion. In 1822 the family moved to Kirkbean on the opposite side of the River Nith and later to New Abbey before settling in Dumfries. He was educated at the local school in Ruthwell then Dumfries Academy.\n\nHe studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh from around 1832. From 1835 he worked on the staff of Dumfries & Galloway Royal Infirmary. In 1839, aged 20, he was licensed to practice as a surgeon by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. In 1840 he went to Marischal College in Aberdeen to act as Demonstrator to Professor Allan Thomson (a demonstrator performs surgery on cadavers whilst the professor lectures). In 1841 both Thomson and Gunning went to the University of Edinburgh, Thomson to take over as Professor of Physiology, Gunning to oversee the anatomy rooms under Professor Alexander Monro. Gunning was skilled, and in one of the world’s most prestigious centres for the training of doctors in the mid-19th century. His pupils included William Tennant Gairdner, William Overend Priestley and Henry Duncan Littlejohn. The University granted him his doctorate (MD) in 1846.\n\nIn 1843, as a religious man, Gunning’s world was rocked by the Disruption of the Church of Scotland which caused a split in the church, and in the allegiance of congregations. Gunning was an admirer of Rev Dr Thomas Chalmers who had led the split, and admired his vision of free schools, church missions etc. Gunning joined Chalmer’s church in the West Port, Edinburgh rising to be a church elder. Gunning gave large sums to the church throughout his later life, including the full cost of a model lodging house attached to the church for housing the poor of the parish. In 1882 he laid the foundation stone to the replacement church on the corner of West Port and Lady Lawson Street: The Chalmers Territorial Free Church, seating over 900 persons, and paid for almost entirely by Gunning. At this same period, also through the influence of Chalmers and Robert Christison, he persuaded the University of Edinburgh to add the requirement for the study of at least one natural science into its theology degree, the University thereafter being one of the first universities to combine these two apparently diametrically opposed fields. In this, all felt that new discoveries in a science in no way undermined religion, and indeed science should be used as a means to back religious ideologies. Gunning paid for these extra lectures at his own expense, making it hard for the University to refuse.\n\nFrom 1846 to 1848 he served as President of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh. During this period he lived at 12 Argyll Square, close to the University, and following his marriage in 1847 he moved to a larger house at 43 George Square.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of Robert Mortimer Glover, the more recognised James Young Simpson, and the overtly practical Francis Brodie Imlach, Gunning undertook experiments on the use and safety of chloroform during 1847/8. Gunning was firmly in the Glover camp: that chloroform was too dangerous for use on humans for full anaesthesia (Imlach used only partial anaesthesia, for dental extractions, perhaps the most logical use). In May 1848 he presented his findings to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh and was critical of Simpson’s advocacy of human use. Simpson (there present) defended his beliefs. However, public opinion, including a knighthood for Simpson and widespread media coverage, dominated the feelings of the general public. Medical truth was therefore suppressed and the use of chloroform spread widely, much to the delight of Dr James Duncan of Duncan & Flockhart of Edinburgh, who held the British licence for production. Gunning’s experiments confirmed those of Glover (who had already left Britain in his disgust of Simpson’s plagiarism of his own work, Simpson being the official reader of Glover’s university thesis on the subject). Gunning also established that Simpson had undertaken no systematic experimentation whatsoever. Gunning equally became disillusioned at his own profession.\n\nAs a combination of these factors, and apparent health problems, he and his new wife left Britain and emigrated to Brazil for a different life. He kept in regular written contact with his friend Robert Christison, and sent him supplies of Ipecacuanha from Brazil, this being the basis of a drug used to treat dysentery. The two hatched a scheme to grow the plant in India to treat many cases there without need for such transport distances.\n\nGunning set up home, and a medical practice, in Rio de Janeiro. He also began investing in various ventures including gold mines and creating a railway system across Brazil (mainly on the coast-line). He also created the first street-car (tram) system in Rio. In 1872 he moved to Palmeiras to be closer to his mining interests. Here he was visited by notable persons such as Louis Agassiz who sought (and gained) funding for his projects. Gunning’s investments proved lucrative. His already great wealth grew. Emperor Dom Pedro II of Brazil created him a Grand Dignitary of the Empire of Brazil and awarded him the Order of the Rose, for his work in improving the lives of the poor of Brazil. Dom Pedro wrote to Queen Victoria asking that this be recognised in Britain and this was agreed. He was afterwards entitled to the title \"His Excellency Robert Gunning\". His wife died in 1877 and is buried in Edinburgh. He returned to Britain in 1882 as a millionaire.\n\nIn 1882 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were William Alison, John Hutton Balfour, Rev John Duns, Andrew Douglas Maclagan and Sir William Turner. He donated a large sum to the Society to fund the Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prize.\n\nHe went blind around 1890. He died at 12 Addison Crescent in Kensington, London on 22 March 1900. His body was taken to Edinburgh for burial in the Grange Cemetery with his first wife, Eliza, following a memorial service at West Port Church. The grave is in the south-east corner against the eastern boundary wall.\n\nHe was married twice: firstly in 1847 to Eliza Meikle (died 1877) of Springfield House, Govan; secondly, in old age in 1890, to Lady Mary Agnes Winwood Hughes, 30 years his junior. She was the daughter of Sir William Smith, 3rd Baronet and widow of Sir Thomas Collingwood Hughes, 8th Baronet.\n\nHe had no children by either marriage.\n\n\nOver and above the Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prizes, awarded by both the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, Gunning funded 13 ongoing bursaries jointly known as the Gunning Victoria Jubilee Bursaries but each having their own name (concealing the Gunning connection). These are often erroneously assumed to be founded by the persons after whom they are named, but all are founded by Gunning:\n\n\nGunning paid for various works in St Giles Cathedral in Edinburgh including the plaque to Jenny Geddes in 1886 and the magnificent faux-medieval tomb to the Marquess of Argyll (erected 1895).\n\nIn 1886, Gunning paid for the bulk of the cost of the Covenanters Memorial at Deerness.\n"}
{"id": "4405613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405613", "title": "Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001", "text": "Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001\n\nSafety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 2001, with the preamble stating:\nNoting the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy as well as the relevant codes of practice, in particular the code of practice on recording and notification of occupational accidents and diseases, 1996, and the code of practice on safety and health in forestry work, 1998, and\n\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to safety and health in agriculture...\n\nAs of the end of 2015, the convention has been ratified by 16 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "6330624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6330624", "title": "Sesamoiditis", "text": "Sesamoiditis\n\nSesamoiditis is inflammation of the sesamoid bones.\n\nSesamoiditis occurs on the bottom of the foot, just behind the big toe. There are normally two sesamoid bones on each foot; sometimes sesamoids can be bipartite, which means they each comprise two separate pieces. The sesamoids are roughly the size of jelly beans. The sesamoid bones act as a fulcrum for the flexor tendons, the tendons which bend the big toe downward.\n\nSymptoms include inflammation and pain.\n\nSometimes a sesamoid bone is fractured. This can be difficult to pick up on X-ray, so a bone scan or MRI is a better alternative.\n\nAmong those who are susceptible to the malady are dancers, catchers and pitchers in baseball, soccer players, and football players.\n\nIn the horse it occurs at the horse's fetlock. The sesamoid bones lie behind the bones of the fetlock, at the back of the joint, and help to keep the tendons and ligaments that run between them correctly functioning.\n\nUsually periostitis (new bone growth) occurs along with sesamoiditis, and the suspensory ligament may also be affected. Sesamoiditis results in inflammation, pain, and eventually bone growth.\n\nIn humans, excessive forces caused by sudden bending upwards of the big toe, high heels, or a stumble can contribute to sesamoiditis. Once the sesamoid bone is injured it can be very difficult to cure, because every time you walk you put additional pressure on the sesamoid bone. Treatment in humans consists of anti-inflammatory medication, cortisone injections, strapping to immobilize the big toe, and orthotics with special accommodations to keep pressure off the affected bone.\n\nIn horses, sesamoiditis is generally caused by excess stress on the fetlock joint. Conformation that promotes sesamoiditis include long pasterns, or horses with long toes and low heels.\n\n"}
{"id": "20777623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20777623", "title": "Shoulder presentation", "text": "Shoulder presentation\n\nA shoulder presentation refers to a malpresentation at childbirth where the baby is in a transverse lie (its vertebral column is perpendicular to that of the mother), thus the leading part (the part that enters first the birth canal) is an arm, shoulder, or the trunk. While a baby can be delivered vaginally when either the head or the feet/buttocks are the leading part, it usually cannot be expected to be delivered successfully with a shoulder presentation unless a cesarean section (C/S) is performed.\n\nShoulder presentations are uncommon (about 0.5% of births) as usually towards the end of gestation either the head or the buttocks start to enter the upper part of the pelvis anchoring the fetus in a longitudinal lie. It is not known in all cases of shoulder presentation why the longitudinal lie is not reached, but possible causes include bony abnormalities of the pelvis, uterine abnormalities such as malformations or tumors (fibroids), and other tumors in the pelvis or abdomen can also lead to a shoulder presentation. Other factors are a lax abdominal musculature, uterine overdistension (i.e. polyhydramnios), multiple gestation, placenta previa, a small fetus, or a fetus with some abnormality. Further, if the amniotic fluid sac ruptures the shoulder or arm may become wedged as a shoulder presentation.\n\nInspection of the abdomen may already give a clue as it is wide from side to side. Usually performing the Leopold's maneuvers will demonstrate the transverse lie of the fetus. Ultrasound examination delivers the diagnosis and may indicate possible causes such as multiple gestation or a tumor. On vaginal examination, the absence of a head or feet/breech is apparent.\n\nShoulder presentations are classified into four types, based on the location of the scapula:\n\nWhile a transverse lie prior to labor can be manually versed to a longitudinal lie, once the uterus starts contracting the uterus normally will not allow any version procedure. A shoulder presentation is an indication for a caesarean section. Generally, as it is diagnosed early, the baby is not damaged by the time of delivery. With the rupture of the membranes, there is an increased risk of a cord prolapse as the shoulder may not completely block the birth canal. Thus the caesarean section is ideally performed before the membranes break.\n\nThe delivery of the second twin in a transverse lie with a shoulder presentation represents a special situation that may be amenable to a vaginal delivery. As the first twin has just been delivered and the cervix is fully dilated the obstetrician may perform an internal version, that is inserting one hand into the uterus, find the baby’s feet, and then bring the baby into a breech position and deliver the baby as such.\n\nDuring labor the shoulder will be wedged into the pelvis and the head lie in one iliac fossa, the breech in the other. With further uterine contractions the baby suffocates. The uterus continues to try to expel the impacted fetus and as its retraction ring rises, the musculature in the lower segments thins out leading eventually to a uterine rupture and the death of the mother. Impacted shoulder presentations contribute to maternal mortality. Obviously a cesarean section should be performed before the baby has died, but even when the baby has died or impaction has occurred, C/S is the method of choice of delivery, as alternative methods of delivery are potentially too traumatic for the mother. If the baby is preterm or macerated and very small a spontaneous delivery has been observed.\n\nPrior to the arrival of C/S the fetus usually died during protracted labor and the mother's life was at risk as well due to infection, uterine rupture and bleeding. On occasion, if the baby was macerated and small, it collapsed sufficiently to be delivered. The shoulder presentation was a feared obstetrical complication.\n\nIn 1690 Justine Siegemundin, a German midwife, published \"Die Kgl. Preußische und Chur-Brandenburgische Hof-Wehemutter\". This treatise for midwives demonstrated abnormal presentations at birth and their management. She was the first to describe a two-handed method of performing an internal rotation of the baby to extract it as a breech (a variation of which is performed today on the second twin, see above) using a sling. The procedure was useful provided the fetus was not impacted. Once the uterus had contracted around the baby tightly, destructive interventions were used to save the life of the mother.\n\nShoulder presentation is a malpresentation that is not to be confused with shoulder dystocia, a complication during the birth of a baby in a vertex presentation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13833550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13833550", "title": "Sigma Sigma Phi", "text": "Sigma Sigma Phi\n\nSigma Sigma Phi (ΣΣΦ or SSP), is the national osteopathic medicine honors fraternity for medical students training to be Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.). The National Osteopathic Medicine Honors Fraternity is a group united in the interest of preserving the highest class of medical scholastic excellence and includes community service.\n\nSigma Sigma Phi was founded in 1921, and the fraternity's goal is to directly impact the student bodies by encouraging the highest class of academic excellence. Criteria for membership into Sigma Sigma Phi include scholastic achievement, such as class rank and dedication to community service and the highest class of academic excellence.\n\nSigma Sigma Phi was founded by seven students representing the fraternal organizations and the student body in October 1921 in Kirksville, Missouri at what is currently A.T. Still University (originally named American School of Osteopathy). These seven students constituted the original charter members, one from each fraternity and one from the nonfraternal body, and drew up the organization's constitution and by-laws. The fraternity was officially chartered on May 16, 1925, at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine by three men. Thus, there were ten charter members. Over the years, most osteopathic medical schools have added a local chapter. Currently, there are 22 active chapters at 24 osteopathic medical school campuses in the United States.\n\n\n\nThere are approximately 3,600 members.\n\n\nAlpha Omega Alpha, abbreviated \"AOA\", is the counterpart honor society for Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) medical students, residents, and physicians in the United States.\n\"AOA\" is also the abbreviation used by the American Osteopathic Association, which is the medical association for osteopathic medical students, residents, and physicians.\n\nOmega Beta Iota, abbreviated “ΩΒΙ,” is the National Osteopathic Political Action Honor Society founded in 2007 to emphasize the importance of the work osteopathic medical students do for the political system. A distinction is made when referring to the National Osteopathic Medicine Honors Fraternity in that Sigma Sigma Phi, abbreviated \"ΣΣΦ\", is a group united in the interest of preserving the highest class of scholastic excellence and includes community service.\n\nGold Humanism Honor Society, abbreviated \"GHHS.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615439", "title": "Sleep study", "text": "Sleep study\n\nSleep studies are tests that record the body activity during sleep. They are helpful in identification of sleep disorders. Polysomnography, a type of sleep study, is the gold standard to rule out obstructive sleep apnea. If a home study does not find obstructive sleep apnea, but the patient still complains of unrefreshing sleep and daytime sleepiness, an in-lab polysomnogram may be necessary to find other possible disorders.\n\nSleep studies can help diagnose or rule out:\n\nThe most common sleep studies are:\n\nA simple sleep study is done in the home.\n\nPolysomnography records several body functions during sleep, including brain activity, eye movement, oxygen and carbon dioxide blood levels, heart rate and rhythm, breathing rate and rhythm, the flow of air through the mouth and nose, snoring, body muscle movements, and chest and belly movement.\n\nThe MSLT measures, by several nap opportunities in one day, how long it takes a person to fall asleep. It also determines whether REM sleep appears upon falling asleep. It is usually performed immediately after an overnight study.\n\nThis test measures whether a person can stay awake during a time when she or he is normally awake. Like the MSLT, the MWT is performed in a sleep diagnostic center over 4 - 5 nap periods. A mean sleep onset latency of less than 10 minutes is suggestive of excessive daytime sleepiness.\n\nThe Home Sleep Test also called an Out of Sleep Center Test (OCST) is used exclusively for the diagnosis of sleep apnea. Portable equipment is sent home with the patient. The channels are usually limited to airflow, respiratory effort, and oximetry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17734233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17734233", "title": "The Alliance for Safe Children", "text": "The Alliance for Safe Children\n\nThe Alliance for Safe Children (TASC) is a non-profit organization formed in 2002 to address the issue of child injury in the developing world. The founder is Pete Peterson, former United States Ambassador to Vietnam. Michael Linnon is the technical director.\n\nTASC works in cooperation with other organizations, such as the Red Cross and UNICEF.\nIts aims include raising awareness of child injury; promoting injury prevention programmes; conducting and supporting research; and \nraising funds and creating alliances with NGOs, international organisations and governments so that the number of child injuries can be reduced.\nTASC's objectives are driven in part by studies suggesting that far more children die from preventable injury than from infectious disease - according to UNICEF about one million children die of preventible injuries each year. A common specific cause of death is drowning.\n\nThey worked with UNICEF, with whom they organized a conference in 2004 that reported on their findings from surveys and research; the keynote speaker was Kul Gautam, Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations and Deputy Executive Director of UNICEF, who praised TASC and its founder. The conference, according to a report to the Executive Board of UNICEF, was to lead to \"the development of programmes on child injury prevention.\" In 2008 the results of their seven-year \"groundbreaking study\" were published, in a report that indicated that suffocation and drowning were the most easily preventable causes of death for children under five years of age. The publication of the report generated interest from printed media around the world and from Australian television.\n\nSince 2005, TASC has assisted organizations in providing swimming lessons for children in Bangladesh. With help from the Australian government, TASC partnered with the Royal Life Saving Society Australia, in establishing an International Drowning Research Centre based in Dhaka and opened in August 2010. In Bangladesh, an estimated 46 children drown each day, and four times as many nearly drown. The aim is to teach children, especially those from poorer sections of society, how to swim, with the focus being on teaching older children \"who can not only save themselves but can also help others.\" The centre also teaches cardiopulmonary resuscitation and basic rescue skills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "866048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866048", "title": "Tom Patey", "text": "Tom Patey\n\nThomas Walton Patey (20 February 1932 – 25 May 1970) was a Scottish climber, mountaineer, doctor and writer. He was a leading Scottish climber of his day, particularly excelling on winter routes. He died in a climbing accident at the age of 38. He was probably best known for his humorous songs and prose about climbing, many of which were published posthumously in the collection \"One Man's Mountains\".\n\nHe was born on 20 February 1932 at Ellon, Scotland. He was educated at Ellon Academy and Robert Gordon's College in Aberdeen. He studied medicine at the University of Aberdeen, graduating in 1955 with a MB ChB.\n\nPatey worked for ten years as a general practitioner (GP) in Ullapool, in the far north-west of Scotland. He served for four years as Surgeon Lieutenant in the Royal Marines at the 42 Commando School at Bickleigh.\n\nHe first became interested in climbing while he was in the Scouts, but it was at University in Aberdeen, that he first revealed his full talent as an exploratory climber, captaining the Lairig Club. Much of his early exploratory routes were on Lochnagar and neighboring Cairngorms. A dedicated climber, he often dropped all other commitments for the prospect of a good climb. Patey's preference of travelling light extended to leaving his gloves behind on some ice climbs and he had a disrespect for climbing ropes unless they were necessary. While he was at Bickleigh, he would regularly open up new climbs on the Devon Tors. He cared little about recording these climbing details, since that way, if routes were left unblemished and apparently virgin, those following could have a similar excitement in their experience. This generosity of spirit, along with his exuberance and irrepressive energy, left a lasting memory with his companions. His irreverent climbing songs would often be accompanied at a piano by incessant humming through a comb and paper.\n\nHe climbed extensively in Scotland, (making the first winter traverse of the Cuillin ridge with Hamish MacInnes, David Crabbe and Brian Robertson in 1965), as well as achieving notable ascents in the Alps and the Karakoram including the first ascent of the Muztagh Tower (7273 metres) with John Hartog, Joe Brown and Ian McNaught-Davis in 1956 and Rakaposhi (7788 m) in 1958 with Mike Banks. In 1968, he and Ian Clough were the first to climb Am Buachaille, a sea stack off the coast of Sutherland. He, Rusty Baillie and Chris Bonington pioneered the route up the Old Man of Hoy which was repeated with others on a live televised BBC outside broadcast on 8–9 July 1967.\n\nIn 1966 he received a Queen's Commendation for Brave Conduct, after assisting in an incident where two climbers were killed after a fall.\n\nOn 25 May 1970 he fell and died while abseiling from The Maiden, a sea stack off Whiten Head on the Sutherland coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "26233082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26233082", "title": "Toroku arsenic disease", "text": "Toroku arsenic disease\n\nIt emitted arsenic-containing air, resulting in patients with chronic arsenic poisoning producing skin changes, skin cancers and sometimes lung cancer. The Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd., which bought the right of mining was sued by the patients for health damage, but 15 years later, the lawsuit ended with a compromise.\n\nThe pollution at Toroku dates back to 1690 according to A Table of Public Hazards of Japan\n\nSeven patients were examined extensively at Kumamoto University, and they were diagnosed as having chronic arsenic poisoning due to pollution, in a report published in 1973. The same team increased the number of patients to 48 in 1976, while Hotta and his co-workers made extensive studies of the pollution.\n\nNakamura et al. characterized the condition by pigmentation which is either macular or diffuse, appearing both in covered and exposed areas. Punctate depigmentation appears in raindrop shapes, and hard keratoses are either localized or diffuse. Malignant changes may occur. They pointed out nasal septum defects. The environmental agency first indicated the skin and ENT findings of nasal scar or septum defect as necessary symptoms for the Toroku Pollution.\n\nIn addition to the skin and ENT findings, neuritis was added as a criterion of chronic arsenic poisoning. Bowen's disease, Lung cancer, and cancer of the urinary organ were added as appearing following chronic arsenic poisoning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12223381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12223381", "title": "VistA imaging", "text": "VistA imaging\n\nVistA Imaging is an FDA-listed Image Management system used in the Department of Veterans Affairs healthcare facilities nationwide. It is one of the most widely used image management systems in routine healthcare use, and is used to manage many different varieties of images associated with a patient's medical record.\n\nThe VistA Imaging System uses hardware components to provide short- and long-term storage. It takes advantage of network servers for storage. It uses a DICOM gateway system to communicate with commercial Picture Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS) and modalities such as CT, MR, and Computed Radiography (x-ray) devices for image capture. It utilizes a background processor for moving the images to the proper storage device and for managing storage space.\n\nThe system not only manages radiologic images, but also is able to capture and manage EKGs, pathology images, gastroenterology (endoscopic) images, laparoscopic images, scanned paperwork, or essentially any type of health care image.\n\nVistA Imaging is currently integrated into the VistA EMR (electronic medical record) system used nationwide in Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals. This integration is able to provide increased efficiency of retrieval of images. It has also been used as a separate software package and can be used with EHRs other than VistA.\n\nVistA Imaging now connects to a nationwide backbone that allows clinicians to access the 350 million images stored in the VA system via Remote Image View software.\n\nThe VA has developed interfaces for more than 250 medical devices in VistA Imaging, the images from which can be accessed through the desktop VistA Imaging Viewer. The Department of Defense will use the VistA Imaging Viewer to enhance its own EHR.\n\nAs part of the US national mandate to co-ordinate care between Department of Defense and the VA, VistA Imaging is forming a cornerstone of the effort to exchange medical imagery between the two systems. “When soldiers come back from Iraq and Afghanistan and eventually enter the VA system, images will be able to move from DOD to VA seamlessly.\" Eventually, DOD and VA should be able to share all image file types from all sites. Additional enhancements to VistA Imaging include development of a central archive for all VA images (whether acquired through VistA or a commercial system) and new indexing and search capabilities.\n\nThe software for VistA Imaging has been made available through the Freedom of Information Act so that it is in the public domain. Due to its designation as a medical device, however, it can not be designated as free open source software and therefore can not be altered or implemented without FDA approval.\n\nAlthough it can be used in healthcare facilities that are outside the Department of Veterans Affairs, this is possible only if the proprietary modules that have been integrated into it are also licensed and implementation is registered with the FDA. This has effectively limited its use to government institutions who have licensed the proprietary modules.\n\nThe source code can be downloaded from the OSEHRA VistA-M.git tree.\n\nVistA Imaging uses proprietary modules not in the public domain. This makes its public domain use limited.\n\nThe VistA Imaging system was robust enough to be restored after Hurricane Katrina damaged the data facility at the New Orleans VA. This type of backup proved superior to a paper record system.\n\n"}
{"id": "828050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=828050", "title": "Warming up", "text": "Warming up\n\nThe warming up is a preparation for physical exertion or a performance by exercising or practising gently beforehand.\n\nWarming up is performed before a performance or practice. Athletes, singers, actors and others warm up before stressing their muscles. It prepares the muscles for vigorous actions.\n\nA warm up generally consists of a gradual increase in intensity in physical activity (a \"pulse raiser\"), joint mobility exercise, and stretching, followed by the activity. For example, before running or playing an intensive sport, the athlete might slowly jog to warm their muscles and increase their heart rate. It is important that warm ups be specific to the activity, so that the muscles to be used are activated. The risks and benefits of combining stretching with warming up are disputable, although it is generally believed that warming up prepares the athlete both mentally and physically. In a meta-study of 32 high quality studies, about 4/5 ths of the studies showed improvements in performance.\n\nWarm-up programs can improve the strength of the knee muscle, which, in turn, may decrease injuries.\nA comprehensive warm-up program did not significantly decrease injuries in football compared to a control group.\n\nIn baseball, warm up swings using a standard weight bat are effective in increasing batting speed. \n\nStretching is part of some warm up routines, although a study in 2013 indicates that it weakens muscles in that situation. There are 3 types of stretches: ballistic stretching, dynamic, and static stretching:\n\n\nIn Germany, Switzerland and Austria they use this noun in a second context: psychologists and similar professionals are working with \"warming ups\" in therapeutical or learning sessions before starting or after a break; those warming ups are various interaction games, role playing, moving in the class room and so on. \n\n"}
