{"id": "10556819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10556819", "title": "Antient Grand Lodge of England", "text": "Antient Grand Lodge of England\n\nThe Ancient Grand Lodge of England, as it is known today, or \"The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honourable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons (according to the Old Constitutions granted by His Royal Highness Prince Edwin, at York, Anno Domini nine hundred and twenty six, and in the year of Masonry four thousand nine hundred and twenty six)\" as they described themselves on their warrants, was a rival Grand Lodge to the Premier Grand Lodge of England. It existed from 1751 until 1813 when the United Grand Lodge of England was created from the two Grand Lodges. They are now called the \"Antients\", in contrast to the \"Moderns\", the original Grand Lodge who had moved away from the ritual of Scotland, Ireland, and now the Antient Grand Lodge. This Grand Lodge was also informally called the \"Atholl Grand Lodge\" because the Third and Fourth Dukes of Atholl presided over it as Grand Masters for half of its 62-year existence.\n\nAlthough the Grand Lodge never spelled Antient with a 't', the convention was followed by the Moderns, and continues to be used by United Grand Lodge. Some confusion arises from the Ancients' own documentation. Their seals are inscribed Grand Lodge in London of Free and Accepted Masons According to the Old Institution(s), while in their masonic certificates, issued to new members, they called themselves the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of England according to the Old Constitutions.\n\nFrom about 1721, the new Grand Lodge which had been formed in London in 1717, and would soon spread to the rest of England, Wales, and abroad, pursued a policy of self-publicity and expansion that did not always sit well with other Freemasons. They abandoned the old methods of \"drawing\" lodges with chalk, (erased with a mop) in favour of tape and portable metal letters. In 1735 they refused admission to the Master and Wardens of an Irish lodge who claimed to be a deputation from Lord Kingston, then Grand Master of Ireland and past Grand Master of the English Grand Lodge. The Irish masons were offered admission if they would accept the English constitution, which they refused. In the 1730s the English Grand Lodge had changed their ritual to stay ahead of public exposures. During this period, London absorbed many economic migrants from Ireland. Those who were already masons were often repelled by the changes introduced by the English Grand Lodge, and either formed their own lodges, or joined one of the many unaffiliated lodges in the capital. In 1751, five of these, and a sixth that had just been formed, united to form a rival Grand Lodge, which quickly became an umbrella organisation for the other unaffiliated lodges in England.\n\nThis success must be seen as a triumph of the energy, wit, and sheer belligerence of their second Grand Secretary, Laurence Dermott. Most of what we know of him comes from the minutes of Grand Lodge and from his book of constitutions. The Grand Committee met on the first Wednesday of every month, and on 5 February 1752, Dermott replaced John Morgan as Grand Secretary. The next month he dealt with the \"Leg of Mutton\" masons, two men who had initiated masons into the Royal Arch for the price of a leg of mutton, but on examination by Dermott, knew nothing of the degree. They also claimed to teach a masonic method of achieving invisibility. In April he persuaded his brethren to replace Morgan's bye-laws with those of his own lodge in Dublin. June saw Dermott installing the Grand Officers. The lodge met as usual on Wednesday 2 September, and were treated to a lecture on their ritual by Dermott. Due to the change that year from the Julian to the Gregorian Calendar, the next day was Thursday 14 September, losing 11 days. The actual business of the lodge was conducted at an \"emergency\" meeting on the 14th, ensuring both dates appeared in the minutes.\n\nDermott gave them a book of constitutions, inexplicably entitled \"Ahiman Rezon, or a Help to a Brother\". It was modeled on Spratt's Irish Constitutions, which in turn were modeled on Anderson's constitutions. The introductory history was replaced by a satirical account of Dermott's attempt to write a better one (which would trace Freemasonry to before the Creation). The publication of the first edition, in 1756, may have been delayed until the society had found a noble sponsor to act as Grand Master. He arrived in the form of the Earl of Blessington, who had already served as Grand Master in Ireland. The second edition, in 1764, compared the ancient practices of the new Grand Lodge with the works of the \"Moderns\". The older Grand Lodge had been castigated as the \"Moderns\" since the 1720s, and the term is still used today. Dermott's characterisation of the Moderns is scathing and satirical, and with each succeeding edition during his lifetime, more scorn is heaped on the society that deviated from the established landmarks of the order, and whose greatest masonic symbols were the knife and fork. After his death, in 1791, successive editors of Ahiman Rezon progressively excised the insults.\n\nThe Ahiman Rezon, although divisive, proved popular, and the Ancients flourished. They were recognised by the Grand Lodges of Ireland and Scotland, who continued to view the innovations of the Moderns with suspicion. A low point in relations between the two Grand Lodges was reached in the 1770s, when William Preston, then assistant Grand Secretary of the Moderns, attempted to poison the relationship between the Ancients and the Grand Lodge of Scotland.\n\nAfter Dermott's death, the two Grand Lodges moved slowly towards union. The need for unity was underlined during the Napoleonic wars, when the leaders of the Ancients, Moderns, and the Grand Lodge of Scotland acted together to prevent their lodges becoming proscribed organisations. However, the actual process of unification did not start until 1811, when the Moderns started the administrative process of returning their ritual to a form acceptable to the other British Grand Lodges. The final union was in the hands of two sons of the King, the Duke of Sussex, the Grand Master of the Moderns, and the Duke of Kent. Kent had already effected a union in Canada by simply abolishing the Moderns, and merging their lodges with those of the Ancients. The new Grand Lodge, the United Grand Lodge of England, retained the infrastructure of the Moderns, and the ritual of the Ancients.\n\nIn 1823, the mishandling of grievances of a few Lancastrian masons led to an attempt to revive the Ancients in what has come to be known as the Wigan Grand Lodge. Mistrust of the new Grand Lodge was already simmering when the Provincial Grand Lodge meeting at Manchester in 1818 asked that the book of constitutions be amended to state that a lodge must hand back its warrant if membership falls below 7, instead of the 5 stated. Further concern was shown when some masons in Bath were told that it was \"not desirable to make the Number of (Royal Arch) Chapters in any place equal to the Number of Lodges.\" The low minimum implied that it was possible to run a lodge without Deacons, in the manner of the Moderns ritual, and the Ancients had looked on the Royal Arch as the fourth degree, making the formation of a Chapter the duty of every lodge. These queries, prompted by a concern as to a creeping return, or even imposition, of Modernism on old Ancient's lodges, were ignored by Grand Lodge. This led to a more strongly worded remonstrance in 1820. As the local province failed to deal with increasing animosity, in 1822 the 34 masons who signed the last document were suspended by Grand Lodge, and one Liverpool lodge was erased. Although many of the rebels returned to the fold or left masonry altogether, the harshness of their treatment drew support from other lodges in the North West of England. A new Grand Lodge was formed in Liverpool in 1823, calling itself the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of England according to the Old Constitutions. From 1825, it met only in Wigan. As the original dispute was gradually forgotten, its twelve or more lodges were re-absorbed by UGLE, although the last did not rejoin until 1913. It ceased to function as a Grand Lodge in 1866.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2673910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673910", "title": "Armenians in Egypt", "text": "Armenians in Egypt\n\nArmenians in Egypt are a community with a long history. They are a minority with their own language, churches, and social institutions. The number of Armenians in Egypt has decreased due to migrations to other countries and integration into the rest of Egyptian society, including extensive intermarriage with Muslims and Copts. Today they number about 6000, much smaller than a few generations ago. They are concentrated in Cairo and Alexandria, the two largest cities. Economically the Egyptian Armenians have tended to be self-employed businessmen or craftsmen and to have more years of education than the Egyptian average.\n\nArmenians in Egypt have had a presence since the 6th and 7th centuries. The early Armenian migrants to Egypt were Muslims. A migration of Armenian Christians to Egypt started in the early 19th century, and another wave occurred in the early 20th century.\n\nThe presence of Muslim Armenians in Egypt is well documented during and after the Muslim conquest of Egypt. Islamized Armenians under Arab rule had visible military and government positions, such as governors, generals and viziers (and the more notable individuals are listed by name further below).\n\nThis was a prosperous period for the Armenians in Egypt, when they enjoyed commercial, cultural and religious freedom. Their numbers increased considerably as more migrants arrived from Syria and Palestine, fleeing the advance of the Seljuks westward during the second half of the 10th century. Armenian Muslims started their political life in 1074, with an estimated population of 30,000 (possibly as high as 100,000) Armenians living in Fatimid Caliphate at the time. A series of viziers of Armenian origin shaped the history of the Fatimid Caliphate, beginning with Badr al-Jamali and his son al-Afdal Shahanshah, up until Tala'i ibn Ruzzik and his son Ruzzik ibn Tala'i.\n\nNearly 10,000 Armenians were captured, during invasions of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, which took place between 1266 and 1375, and were brought to Egypt as \"mamluks\" or slave-soldiers. They were employed in agriculture and as craftsmen. The youngest were educated in army camps following the Mameluke system, and later employed in the army and the palace.\n\nAt the beginning of the 14th century, a schism occurred in the Armenian church, which caused Patriarch Sargis of Jerusalem to request and obtain a firman from the Sultan Al-Malik Al-Nasir. This brought the Armenians within the Mamluk realm under the jurisdiction of the Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The schismatic Armenians who came to Egypt were given permission to practice their religion freely. Their patriarch's authority over the Armenian community's private and public affairs was decisive. The churches and those who served them were supported by the generosity of the faithful and the revenues deriving from charitable foundations.\n\nThe reign of Muhammad Ali of Egypt (1805–1849) witnessed strong migration streams of Armenians to Egypt. Mohamed Ali hired Armenians in government positions, and the Armenians were given great opportunities to contribute to the socioeconomic development of Egypt. The era of Mohamed Ali witnessed building Armenian churches in Egypt; one for the Armenian Orthodox and another one for the Armenian Catholics. The number of Armenians immigrants to Egypt around this time is estimated at 2,000. Boghos Youssufian (1768–1844) was an Armenian banker and businessman. In 1837, Muhammad Ali appointed Boghos as head of the Diwan Al-Tijara (bureau of commerce) and overseer of other financial affairs for Mohamed Ali.\n\nIn 1876 the Armenian Nubar Nubarian (1825–1899) became the first Prime Minister in modern Egypt.\n\nStarting from the 19th century Egypt became one of the centers of Armenian political and cultural life. Many prominent Armenians of that period, including Komitas, Andranik and Martiros Sarian visited Egypt. The Armenian General Benevolent Union was founded in Cairo in 1906. The first Armenian film with Armenian subject called \"Haykakan Sinema\" was produced in 1912 in Cairo by Armenian-Egyptian publisher Vahan Zartarian. The film was premiered in Cairo on March 13, 1913.\n\nThe Armenian Genocide started on 24 April 1915 with the deportation of Armenian intellectuals. The Armenian communities in Egypt received some percentage of the refugees and survivors of the massacres in Turkey. The total number of Armenians in Egypt in 1917 was 12,854 inhabitants. They increased to reach its peak in 1927 census data where their total number was 17,188 inhabitants most of whom were concentrated in Cairo and Alexandria. Some independent estimates push the number of Armenians in Egypt to 40,000 inhabitants at the beginning of year 1952. \n\nArmenian community life in Egypt revolved around the Armenian Apostolic Church and, to a lesser extent, the Armenian Catholic Church. Over 80% of the adult Armenian population in Egypt worked as skilled craftsmen or in administrative positions, wholesale, retail and services. A very small number of Amerians, only around 5 per cent, worked as unskilled laborers; even fewer were landowners or farmers. Egyptian Armenians were relatively prosperous compared to Armenians in other Middle Eastern countries; of the 150,000 Middle Eastern Armenians who emigrated to Soviet Armenia between 1946-48, only 4,000 were Egyptian.\n\nAfter the 1952 revolution led by Gamal Abdel Nasser many Armenians began to emigrate to Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia.\n\nA reverse migration, not to the original homelands, but rather to the West, was observed among Armenian Egyptians starting in around 1956. 1956 saw the introduction of what are called the “Socialist Laws” in Egypt and the nationalization of many economic sectors under the Nasser regime. Since Armenian Egyptians at that time worked predominantly in the private sector and tended to monopolize basic professions and trade markets, the so-called Socialist Laws affected them more than those working in the government or in agriculture. Many migrants concluded – mistakenly or correctly – that they were threatened by the new policies of the Nasser regime and many left Egypt and migrated to the West. Since 1956 the total number of Armenian Egyptians has decreased. Accurate figures of how many left and how many are still there are not available since questions on ethnicity have not been included in censuses since the 1952 revolution.\n\nMost Egyptian Armenians today, who are permanent residents of Egypt, were born in Egypt and are Egyptian citizens. Armenia to them is the collection of folkloric stories and cultural practices that each generation hands to its successor. Armenian Egyptians are full Egyptians with an extra cultural layer. They number around 6,000 and live primarily in Cairo.\n\nToday structures such as clubs, schools, and sports facilities reinforce communications among Armenian Egyptians and revive the heritage of their forefathers. In spite of these efforts, many Armenian Egyptians of the youngest generation (and who are mostly the result of marriages between the Armenian community and other Egyptians - whether Christian or Muslim) do not speak the Armenian language, or go to Armenian schools, and are not in touch with their heritage or community. The Armenian Church and the apolitical structure of the Armenian community have a very important role in unifying Armenians in Egypt. Unlike Armenian minorities in Syria and Lebanon, Armenian Egyptians stay out of local politics.\n\nThe Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church in Egypt, which is under the jurisdiction of Holy Etchmiadzin, is the primary guardian of community assets such as endowments, real estate in the form of agricultural land, and other property bequeathed by generations of philanthropists.\n\nEgyptian Armenians are very rarely involved in present-day Egyptian politics, unlike the Armenian minorities in Lebanon and Syria. However, many are employed in different political and apolitical Egyptian institutions. The Armenian Church and the apolitical structure of the institutions in the Egyptian Armenian community have a very important role in unifying the Armenians in Egypt.\n\nThe Armenian community operates a number of associations, including:\n\nThe community has four social clubs in Cairo and two in Alexandria, in addition to three sporting clubs in the capital and two in Alexandria. There is one home for the elderly, and many activities for young people, including a dance troupe, Zankezour, a choir, Zevartnots, and a children's choir, Dzaghgasdan.\n\nToday, in Egypt, there are two daily papers and one weekly publication, all affiliated to Armenian political parties.\n\nPeriodicals and newsletters include:\n\nThere are a number of Sports clubs including: \n\nSports played include association football (soccer), basketball and table tennis. Almost all the clubs also have scouting activities.\n\nThe first Armenian school in Egypt, the Yeghiazarian Religious School, was established in 1828 at Bein Al-Sourein. In 1854, the school was moved to Darb Al-Geneina and the name was changed to Khorenian, after the Armenian historian Movses Khorenatsi. In 1904, Nubar Pasha, an Armenian statesman, moved the Khorenian School to Boulaq. In 1907, he founded the Kalousdian Armenian School and kindergarten on Galaa Street (downtown Cairo), which is currently defunct. The second Armenian school in Egypt was founded in 1890 by Boghos Youssefian in Alexandria, and is called Boghossian School. The newest Armenian school is Nubarian in Heliopolis, founded in 1925 with a donation from Boghos Nubar. Now, Kalousdian school & Nubarian are merged as one school in Heliopolis area, Cairo.\n\nThe three Armenian schools in Egypt eventually integrate a K-12 program. Armenian 6 schools in Egypt are partially supported by the Prelacy of the Armenian Church in Egypt. Armenian education is very important in maintaining Armenian language among the Armenian community in Egypt. In Addition, Armenian language is the only language that Armenians use within their families and communities.\nThe three Armenian schools in Egypt eventually integrated a secondary education programme; students who have graduated can immediately enter the Egyptian university system, after passing the official Thanawiya 'Amma (High School) exams.\n\nArmenian Egyptians are divided into Armenian Apostolic (known also as Orthodox or at times Gregorian) belonging to the Armenian Apostolic Church and Armenian Catholic communities belonging to the Armenian Catholic Church. There are also some Egyptian Armenians who are members of Armenian Evangelical churches.\n\nThere are five main Armenian churches in Egypt, two in Alexandria and three in Cairo.\n\nArmenian Orthodox community comprise the majority of Armenian Egyptians. \nThe Armenian Apostolic churches include:\n\nThe Prelacy of the Armenian Church in Egypt, which is under the jurisdiction of See of Holy Echmiadzin, is the primary guardian of community assets such as endowments, real estate in the form of agricultural land and other property bequeathed by generations of philanthropists.\n\nThe Armenian Catholic community has two churches:\n\nAmong the most prominent Armenians in Egypt between the Abbasid Era in the 7th century to the Ottoman Era of the early 19th century were:\n\nArmenians have historically contributed prominently to the Egyptian public life, be it in politics, economics, business and academic circles as well as in all facets of the arts.\n\nSuffice to mention that Nubar Pasha, a prominent politician became the First Prime Minister of Egypt. Alexander Saroukhan is considered one of the prominent caricaturists who set the standards for the art of caricature in the Arab World.\n\nAccording to media, modern sculptor Armen Agop is among the artists from Egypt that are changing perspectives on contemporary art from North Africa.\n\nBecause of a rise of nationalism and pan-Arabism joined with confiscation of civil rights and economic freedoms, many Egyptians of Armenian descent decided in the late 1950s and during the 1960s to leave the country in many thousands to Europe and the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America) and Australia. This greatly reduced the number of the Egyptian Armenian community in Egypt.\n\nHowever the migrating Egyptian Armenians remained attached to their homeland Egypt and kept the Egyptian Armenian traditions and established their own associations in the new diaspora away from their country Egypt. They also actively contributed to the institutions still working in Egypt (churches, schools, clubs, cultural activities etc.). We can mention for example the Association of Armenians from Egypt in Montreal, Canada and many others in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36548172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36548172", "title": "Balopi Commission", "text": "Balopi Commission\n\nThe Presidential Commission of Inquiry into Sections 77, 78 and 79 of the Constitution of Botswana, also known as the Balopi Commission after the chairman of the commission Patrick Balopi, is a Botswana commission of inquiry set up on 28 July 2000 in response to perceived tribal inequality between the dominant Batswana and the smaller minority tribes such as the Wayeyi.\n\nIn 1995, Lydia Nyati-Ramahobo, a professor at the University of Botswana, founded the Kamanakao Association, an organization that aims \"to develop and maintain the Shiyeyi language and culture.\" The Wayeyi are a Bantu minority group under the Batawana umbrella. Due to feelings of oppression under the Batawana, the Wayeyi, with the help of the Kamanakao Association, installed their own paramount chief, Shikati Calvin Kamanakao, on 24 April 1999, which was in disagreement with the Chieftainship Act, the Tribal Land Territory Act, and sections 77-79 of the Constitution of Botswana. The Deputy Attorney General Ian Kirby responded by letter to the Wayeyi on 15 July 1999, writing that since the Wayeyi are not a recognized tribe, they could not have their own chief.\n\nBecause of the Wayeyi conflict and a parliamentary motion by Olifant Mfa on 17 February 1995 to rewrite sections 77-79 of the Constitution to be \"tribally neutral\", President Festus Mogae appointed twenty-one people to the Presidential Commission of Inquiry into Section 77, 78 and 79 of the Constitution of Botswana, otherwise known as the Balopi Commission after the chairman of the commission Patrick Balopi. The commission was charged with three tasks: \"(a) To review sections 77, 78, and 79 of the constitution of Botswana and to seek a construction that would eliminate any interpretation that renders the sections discriminatory; (b) To review and propose the most effective method of selecting members of the House of Chiefs; and (c) To propose and recommend measures to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the House of Chiefs.\"\n\nIn order to collect public opinions, the members of the commission visited 41 villages and towns, held 43 public meetings, listened to 38 oral submissions, and received 10 group and 40 individual written submissions. The meetings were held in the traditional dikgotla of the tribes.\n\nThe commission made the following recommendations in the \"White Paper No.1 of 2001\":\n\nThe president was praised for his efforts by the minority Batswapong in eastern Botswana but was heavily criticised by the Bamangwato because they felt it would \"place their paramount chief [and then Vice President of Botswana] Ian Khama on the same level as chiefs from inferior tribes.\" The Bogosi Act was passed in 2008, replacing the Chieftainship Act. This act removed references of the word \"chief\" and changed them to kgosi.\n\nA revision of the recommendations was made in April 2002 titled the \"White Paper No.2 of 2002\" which opted to let the selection process for the House remain the same: the eight dikgosi of the main tribes would retain their posts, a move that the House of Chiefs itself approved. President Mogae went on further visits around the country in May 2002 to hold debates about future changes to the constitution, but the consensus among the citizens remains dissatisfied. Minister of Health Joy Phumaphi said that the revision \"is a compromise and it does not remove discrimination.\" Other ministers felt that they did not have enough time to provide feedback to the revision process. A 2007 study by the University of Botswana found that \"a significant number of respondents suggest that the Constitution should be reviewed so that it equally recognizes all cultures found in Botswana\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41787383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41787383", "title": "Bengali Muslims", "text": "Bengali Muslims\n\nBengali Muslims () are an ethnic, linguistic, and religious population who make up the majority of Bangladesh's citizens and the largest minority in the Indian states of West Bengal and Assam. They are Bengalis who adhere to Islam and speak the Bengali language, which is written with the Eastern Nagari alphabet. They form the largest Bengali and the second largest Muslim ethnic group in the world (after Arab Muslims).\n\nBengal was a leading power of the medieval Islamic East. The endogamous Bengali Muslim population emerged as a synthesis of Islamic and Bengali cultures. After the Partition of India in 1947, they comprised the demographic majority of Pakistan until the independence of East Pakistan (historic East Bengal) as Bangladesh in 1971.\n\nA Bengali is a person of ethnic and linguistic heritage from the Bengal region in South Asia speaking the Indo-Aryan Bengali language. Islam arrived in the first millennium and influenced the native Bengali culture. The influx of Persian, Turkic, Arab and Mughal settlers contributed further diversity to the cultural development of the region. However, historians including Richard Maxwell Eaton, Ahmed Sharif, Muhammad Mohar Ali and Jadunath Sarkar are in agreement that the bulk of Muslims are descended from Buddhists who were converted to Islam by missionaries. Today, most Bengali Muslims live in the modern state of Bangladesh, the world's third largest Muslim-majority country, along with the Indian states of West Bengal and Assam.\n\nThe dominant majority of Bengali Muslims are Sunnis who follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence. There are also minorities of Shias and Ahmadiyas, as well as people who identify as non-denominational (or \"just a Muslim\").\n\nRice-cultivating communities existed in Bengal since the second millennium BCE. The region was home to a large agriculturalist population influenced by Indian religions, but was not fully integrated into the caste system. Buddhism influenced the region in the first millennium. The Bengali language developed from Apabhramsa and Magadhi Prakrit between the 7th and 10th centuries. It once formed a single Indo-Aryan branch with Assamese and Oriya, before the languages became distinct.\n\nEarly Muslim traders and merchants visited Bengal while traversing the Silk Road in the first millennium. One of the earliest mosques in South Asia is under excavation in northern Bangladesh, indicating the presence of Muslims in the area around the lifetime of the Prophet Muhammad. Starting in the 9th century, Muslim merchants increased trade with Bengali seaports. Coins of the Abbasid Caliphate have been discovered in many parts of the region.\n\nThe Muslim conquest of the Indian subcontinent took place between the 12th and 16th centuries. Bengal became a province of the Delhi Sultanate in 1204. In the 14th century the Sultanate of Bengal became independent and emerged as a regional power. It adopted Bengali as one of its official languages, alongside Persian, the diplomatic language of the Islamic world, and Arabic, the liturgical language of the religion. The Sultanate also ruled parts of Arakan and Assam. The Sur Empire briefly overtook the region in the 16th century. During the sultanate period, Hindu aristocrats occupied prominent positions in the administration.\n\nThe Mughal Empire eventually controlled the region under its Bengal Subah viceregal province. The Mughal Emperors considered Bengal their most prized province. Emperor Akbar redeveloped the Bengali calendar. Emperor Aurangazeb called Bengal the \"Paradise of Nations\". Two Bengal viceroysMuhammad Azam Shah and Azim-us-Shanassumed the imperial throne. Mughal Bengal became increasingly independent under the Nawabs of Bengal in the 18th century.\n\nThe agrarian reforms of the Mughal Empire also played a crucial role in developing Bengali Muslim society. According to historian Richard M. Eaton, Islam became the religion of the plough in the Bengal delta. The delta was the most fertile region in the empire. Mughal development projects cleared forests and established thousands of Sufi-led villages, which became industrious farming and craftsmanship communities. The projects were most evident in the Bhati region of East Bengal, the most fertile part of the delta.\n\nPeople from various parts of the Muslim world settled in the region. Settlers intermarried with the local population. This made East Bengal a thriving melting pot with strong trade and cultural networks. It was the most prosperous part of the subcontinent. East Bengal became the center of the Muslim population in the eastern subcontinent and corresponds to modern-day Bangladesh.\n\nThe region fell to the control of the British Empire in 1757.\n\nBritish-ruled Bengal was a hotbed of anti-colonial rebellion. In the early 19th century, Titumir led a peasant uprising against colonial rule. Haji Shariatullah led the Faraizi movement, advocating Islamic revivalism. The Faraizis sought to create a caliphate and cleanse the region's Muslim society of what they deemed \"un-Islamic practices\". They were successful in galvanizing the Bengali peasantry against colonial authorities. However, the movement suffered crackdowns after the Mutiny of 1857 and lost impetus after the death of Haji Shariatullah's son Dudu Miyan.\n\nAfter 1870, Muslims began seeking English education increasingly. Under the leadership of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan the promotion the English language among Muslims of India also influenced Bengali Muslim society. Social and cultural leaders among Bengali Muslims during this period included Munshi Mohammad Meherullah, who countered Christian missionaries, writers Ismail Hossain Siraji and Mir Mosharraf Hossain; and feminists Nawab Faizunnesa and Roquia Sakhawat Hussain.\n\nThe creation of Eastern Bengal and Assam established visions for a sovereign Muslim-majority homeland in the eastern subcontinent. Low income Muslims after passing matriculation, looked for jobs as clerks, peons and orderlies but Hindu \"babus\" refused to employ them. So, instigated by the British, upper class Muslims formed the Muslim League in Dhaka in 1906. The early Muslim League dominated politics in East Bengal. A. K. Fazlul Huq was the first Prime Minister of Bengal under British rule. Bengali Muslims also dominated politics in Colonial Assam, where Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani emerged as a populist leader. Muhammed Saadulah served as the first Prime Minister of Assam.\n\nAn important moment in the history of Bengali self-determination was the Lahore Resolution in 1940, which was promoted by British Bengal premier A. K. Fazlul Huq. The resolution initially called for the creation of a sovereign state in the \"Eastern Zone\" of British India. However, its text was later changed by the top leadership of the Muslim League. Despite calls from liberal Bengali Muslim League leaders for an independent United Bengal, the British moved forward with the Partition of Bengal and India in 1947. The Radcliffe Line made East Bengal a part of the Dominion of Pakistan. It was later renamed as East Pakistan, with Dhaka as its capital. The All Pakistan Awami Muslim League was formed in Dhaka in 1949. The organization's name was later secularized as the Awami League in 1955. The party was supported by the Bengali bourgeois, agriculturalists, the middle class, and the intelligentsia. Sir Khawaja Nazimuddin, Mohammad Ali of Bogra, and H. S. Suhrawardy each served as Pakistan's prime minister during the 1950s; however, all three were deposed by the military-industrial complex in West Pakistan. The Bengali Language Movement in 1952 received strong support from Islamic groups, including the Tamaddun Majlish. Bengali nationalism increased in East Pakistan during the 1960s, particularly with the Six point movement for autonomy. The rise of pro-democracy and pro-independence movements in East Pakistan, with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as the principal leader, led to the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.\n\nBangladesh was founded as a secular nation. In 1977, however, President Ziaur Rahman, trying to consolidate his power under martial law, removed secularism from the constitution and replaced it with \"a commitment to the values of Islam.\" In 2010, the Bangladesh Supreme Court reaffirmed secular principles in the constitution.\n\nThe Bengali numerals are derived from ancient Indian mathematics, which also influenced the development of Arabic numerals and science in the medieval Islamic world.\n\nHistorical Islamic kingdoms that existed in Bengal employed several clever technologies in numerous areas such as architecture, agriculture, civil engineering, water management, etc. The creation of canals and resoirvoirs was a common practice for the sultanate. New methods of irrigation were pioneered by the Sufis. Bengali mosque architecture featured terracotta, stone, wood and bamboo, with curved roofs, corner towers and multiple domes. During the Bengal Sultanate, a distinct regional style flourished which featured no minarets, but had richly designed mihrabs and minbars as niches.\n\nIslamic Bengal had a long history of textile weaving ] including export of muslin during the 17th and 18th centuries. Today, the weaving of Jamdani is classified by UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage.\n\nModern science was begun in Bengal under British colonial rule. Railways were introduced in 1862, making Bengal one of the earliest regions in the world to have a rail network. For the general population, opportunities for formal science education remained limited. The colonial government and the Bengali elite established several institutes for science education. The Nawabs of Dhaka established Ahsanullah School of Engineering which later became the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, the Bengali Muslim American Fazlur Rahman Khan became one of the most important structural engineers in the world, helping design the world's tallest buildings. Another Bengali Muslim American, Jawed Karim, was the co-founder of YouTube.\n\nIn 2016, the modernist Bait-ur-Rouf Mosque, inspired by the Bengal Sultanate-style of buildings, won the Aga Khan Award for Architecture.\n\nBengali Muslims constitute the world's second-largest Muslim ethnicity (after the Arab world) and the largest Muslim community in South Asia. An estimated 146million Bengali Muslims live in Bangladesh, where Islam is the state religion and commands the demographic majority. The Indian state of West Bengal is home to an estimated 24.6million Bengali Muslims. Two districts in West BengalMurshidabad and Maldah have a Muslim majority and North Dinajpur has a plurarity. The Indian state of Assam has over 11million Bengali Muslims. Nine out of thirty-seven districts in Assam have a Muslim majority. The Rohingya community in western Myanmar have significant Bengali Muslim heritage.\n\nA large Bengali Muslim diaspora is found in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf, which are home to several million expatriate workers from South Asia. A more well-established diaspora also resides in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Pakistan. The first Bengali Muslim settlers in the United States were ship jumpers who settled in Harlem, New York and Baltimore, Maryland in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nSurnames in Bengali Muslim society reflect the region's cosmopolitan history. They are mainly of Arabic and Persian origin, with a minority of secular Bengali surnames.\n\nArt\n\nSheikh Zainuddin was a prominent Bengali Muslim artist in the 18th century during the colonial period. His works were inspired by the style of Mughal courts.\n\nArchitecture is considered the supreme form of Islamic art. An indigenous style of Islamic architecture flourished in Bengal during the medieval Sultanate period. Terracotta and stone mosques with multiple domes proliferated in the region. Bengali Muslim architecture emerged as a synthesis of Bengali, Persian, Byzantine, and Mughal elements.\n\nThe Indo-Saracenic style influenced Islamic architecture in South Asia during the British Raj. A notable example of this period is Curzon Hall. Modern and contemporary Islamic architecture evolved in the region since the 1950s.\n\nSufi spiritual traditions are central to the Bengali Muslim way of life. The most common Sufi ritual is the Dhikr, the practice of repeating the names of God after prayers. Sufi teachings regard the Prophet Muhammad as the primary perfect man who exemplifies the morality of God. Sufism is regarded as the individual internalization and intensification of the Islamic faith and practice. The Sufis played a vital role in developing Bengali Muslim society during the medieval period. Historic Sufi missionaries are regarded as saints, including Shah Jalal, Khan Jahan Ali, Shah Farhan, Shah Amanat, and Khwaja Enayetpuri. Their mausoleums are focal points for charity, religious congregations, and festivities.\n\nThe Qadiri, Maizbhandaria, Naqshbandi, Chishti, Mujaddid, Ahmadi, Mohammadi, Soharwardi and Rifai orders are among the most widespread Sufi orders in the region.\n\nAs part of the conversion process, a syncretic version of mystical Sufi Islam was historically prevalent in medieval and early modern Bengal. The Islamic concept of tawhid was diluted into the veneration of Hindu folk deities, who were now regarded as pirs. Folk deities such as Shitala (goddess of smallpox) and Oladevi (goddess of cholera) were worshipped as pirs among certain sections of Muslim society.\n\nBengali Muslims maintain their indigenous language and script. This tradition is similar to that of Central Asian and Chinese Muslims.\n\nBengali evolved as the most easterly branch of the Indo-European languages. The Bengal Sultanate promoted the literary development of Bengali over Sanskrit, apparently to solidify their political legitimacy among the local populace. Bengali was the primary vernacular language of the Sultanate. Bengali borrowed a considerable amount of vocabulary from Arabic and Persian. Under the Mughal Empire, considerable autonomy was enjoyed in the Bengali literary sphere. The Bengali Language Movement of 1952 was a key part of East Pakistan's nationalist movement. It is commemorated annually by UNESCO as International Mother Language Day on 21February.\n\nWhile proto-Bengali emerged during the pre-Islamic period, the Bengali literary tradition crystallized during the Islamic period. As Persian and Arabic were prestige languages, they significantly influenced vernacular Bengali literature. The first efforts to popularize Bengali among Muslim writers was by the Sufi poet Nur Qutb Alam. The poet established the \"Rikhta\" tradition which saw poems written in half Persian and half colloquial Bengali. The invocation tradition saw Bengali Muslim poets re-adapting Indian epics by replacing invocations of Hindu gods and goddesses with figures of Islam. The romantic tradition was pioneered by Shah Muhammad Sagir, whose work on \"Yusuf and Zulaikha\" was widely popular among the people of Bengal. Other notable romantic works included \"Layla Madjunn\" by Bahram Khan and \"Hanifa Kayrapari\" by Sabirid Khan. The \"Dobashi\" tradition features the use of Arabic and Persian vocabulary in Bengali texts to illustrate Muslim contexts. Medieval Bengali Muslim writers produced epic poetry and elegies, such as \"Rasul Vijay\" of Shah Barid, \"Nabibangsha\" of Syed Sultan, \"Janganama\" of Abdul Hakim and \"Maktul Hussain\" of Mohammad Khan. Cosmology was a popular subject among Sufi writers. In the 17th century, Bengali Muslim writers such as such as Alaol found refuge in Arakan where he produced his epic, \"Padmavati\".\n\nBengal was also a major center of Persian literature. Several newspapers and thousands of books, documents and manuscripts were published in Persian for 600 years. The Persian poet Hafez dedicated an ode to the literature of Bengal while corresponding with Sultan Ghiyasuddin Azam Shah.\n\nThe first Bengali Muslim novelist was Mir Mosharraf Hossain in the 19th century. The highly acclaimed poetry of Kazi Nazrul Islam espoused spiritual rebellion against fascism and oppression. Nazrul also wrote Bengali ghazals. Begum Rokeya was a pioneering Bengali female writer who published Sultana's Dream, one of the earliest examples of feminist science fiction. The Muslim Literary Society of Bengal was founded by free-thinking and progressive teachers of Dacca University under the chairmanship of Dr.Muhammad Shahidullah on 19January 1926. The Freedom of Intellect Movement was championed by the society. When Bengal was partitioned in 1947, a distinct literary culture evolved in East Pakistan and modern Bangladesh. Shamsur Rahman was regarded as the country's poet laureate. Jasimuddin became noted for poems and songs reflecting life in rural Bengal. Humayun Ahmed promoted the Bangladeshi field of magical realism. Akhtaruzzaman Elias was noted for his works set in Old Dhaka. Tahmima Anam has been a noted writer of Bangladeshi English literature.\n\n\n\nA notable feature of Bengali Muslim music is the syncretic Baul tradition. The most famous practitioner was Fakir Lalon Shah. Baul music is included in the UNESCO Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.\n\nNazrul Sangeet is the collection of 4,000 songs and ghazals written by Kazi Nazrul Islam.\n\nSouth Asian classical music is widely prevalent in the region. Alauddin Khan, Ali Akbar Khan, and Gul Mohammad Khan were notable Bengali Muslim exponents of classical music.\n\nIn the field of modern music Runa Laila became widely acclaimed for her musical talents across South Asia.\n\nDhaka the capital of Mughal Bengal and present day capital of Bangladesh has been the epidome of Persio-Bengali and Arabo-Bengali cuisines a contrast to Calcutta the former capital of the British India and capital of present-day West Bengal which was the central point of Anglo-Indian cuisine. Within Bengali cuisine, Muslim dishes include the serving of meat curries, pulao rice, various biryani preparations, and dry and dairy-based desserts alongside traditional fish and vegetables. Bakarkhani breads from Dhaka were once immensely popular in the imperial court of the Mughal Empire. Other major breads consumed today include naan and paratha. In present-day Bangladesh the Mughal-influenced foods are immensely popular such as Shuti Kabab, Kalo Bhuna, Korma, Rôst, Mughlai Porota, Jali Kabab, Shami Kabab, Akhni, Tehari, Tanduri Chicken, Kofta, Phirni and Shingara.\nDifferent types of Bengali biryani include the \"Kachi\" (mutton), \"Illish pulao\" (hilsa), \"Tehari\" (beef), and \"Murg Pulao\" (chicken). \"Mezban\" is a renowned spicy beef curry from Chittagong. Halwa, pithas, yogurt, and \"shemai\" are typical Muslim desserts in Bengali cuisine.\n\nEid-ul-Fitr at the end of Ramadan is the largest religious festival of Bengali Muslims. The festival of sacrifice takes place during Eid-al-Adha, with cows and goats as the main sacrificial animals. Muharram and the Prophet's Birthday are national holidays in Bangladesh. Other festivals like Shab-e-Barat feature prayers and exchange of desserts.\n\nSecular festivals are based on the Bengali calendar which was redesigned by the Mughal Emperor Akbar. Celebrated by Bengalis of all faiths, they include the Bengali New Year, Spring Festival, and Autumn Harvest Festival.\n\nThe Bishwa Ijtema, organized annually in Bangladesh, is the second-largest Islamic congregation after the Hajj. It was founded by the orthodox Sunni Tablighi Jamaat movement in 1954.\n\nThere is no single governing body for the Bengali Muslim community, nor a single authority with responsibility for religious doctrine. However, the semi-autonomous Islamic Foundation, a government institution, plays an important role in Islamic affairs in Bangladesh, including setting festival dates and matters related to zakat. The general Bengali Muslim clergy remains deeply orthodox and conservative. Members of the clergy include Mawlānās, Imams, Ulamas, and Muftis.\n\nThe clergy of the Bengali Muslim Shia minority have been based in the old quarter of Dhaka since the 18th century.\n\nMuhammad Yunus is the first Bengali Muslim Nobel laureate who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for founding the Grameen Bank and pioneering the concepts of microcredit and microfinance. Begum Rokeya was one of the world's first Muslim feminists. Kazi Nazrul Islam was renowned as the \"Rebel Poet\" of British India and the National Poet of Bangladesh. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was the first President of Bangladesh. Iskander Mirza was the first president of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Khwaja Salimullah was one of the founders of the All-India Muslim League. Rushanara Ali was the amongst the first Muslim MPs in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Fazlur Rahman Khan was an American Bengali Muslim engineer who reshaped modern skyscraper construction. Jawed Karim is one of the co-founders of Youtube. Salman Khan is a co-founder of Khan Academy. Humayun Rashid Choudhury served as President of the United Nations General Assembly. M. A. G. Osmani was a four star general who founded the Bangladesh Armed Forces. Altamas Kabir was the first Bengali Muslim Chief Justice of India. Irrfan Khan and Nafisa Ali are prominent Bengali Muslims who act in Indian cinema. Alaol was a medieval Bengali Muslim poet who worked in the royal court of Arakan. Mohammad Ali Bogra served as the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Begum Sufia Kamal was a leading Bengali Muslim feminist, poet, and civil society leader. Zainul Abedin was the pioneer of modern Bangladeshi art. Muzharul Islam was the grand master of South Asian modernist terracotta architecture.\n\nOther Bengali religious groups\n\nOther Muslim ethnic groups\n\n"}
{"id": "1041886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041886", "title": "British Science Fiction Association", "text": "British Science Fiction Association\n\nThe British Science Fiction Association was founded in 1958 by a group of British science fiction fans, authors, publishers and booksellers, in order to encourage science fiction in every form. It is an open membership organisation costing £29 per year for UK residents and £20 for the unwaged. The first president of the BSFA was Brian Aldiss. Stephen Baxter is the current President and the current Vice-President is Pat Cadigan. The BSFA currently publishes three magazines, sent to all members:\n\n\n\"Matrix\" was the news magazine, but ceased publication.\n\nThe BSFA Awards are presented annually by the British Science Fiction Association, based on a vote of BSFA members and members of the British national SF convention (Eastercon). The BSFA also nominates two out of five of each year's judging panel of the Arthur C. Clarke Award.\n\nThe BSFA was the fourth attempt to set up a national organisation of science fiction fans in Britain. The first, the Science Fiction Association (SFA), was set up in 1937 by fans who attended the first British science fiction convention in Leeds in May of that year and was \"devoted to the stimulation of interest in science fiction and scientific progress\", but it had to be disbanded on the outbreak of the World War II barely two years later. The second attempt was the British Fantasy Society (which has no connection with the present organisation of the same name, which is a 1971 offshoot of the BSFA), which was established in June 1942 by many of the people behind the SFA with the objective of giving members (who numbered nearly one hundred) better access to science fiction through its extensive library. The BFS did not long survive the war, being wound-up in November 1946. In 1948 Captain Ken Slater, who ran \"Operation Fantast\" - a trading operation which bought and swapped books and magazines - proposed the founding of a new national fan organisation, and thus the Science Fantasy Society was born. Unfortunately Slater was later posted to the army in Germany and the remaining committee members did not share his \"flaming enthusiasm\" for the organisation; in September 1951 the SFS was declared to be \"a glorious flop\".\n\nBy the late 1950s, British science fiction fandom was in serious decline. The annual Eastercon had become a purely social event with a rapidly diminishing attendance (150 in 1954, 115 in 1955, 80 in 1956, fewer than 50 in 1958). Spurred by this, the 1958 Eastercon held in Kettering held a discussion on the whole future of British fandom. It was agreed that both British fanzines and science fiction conventions had become inward-looking and had moved so far away from science fiction that they were not attractive to newcomers, and there were no routes in to British fandom anyway. It was decided that the only way forward was a new national organisation devoted to the serious study of science fiction but also carrying material in its publication about fandom, so that newcomers could go on to more personal involvement in fandom. After considerable debate on the name (\"science fiction\" being considered a stigma in dealing with the Press), the BSFA was formed and had over 100 members by its first anniversary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4625592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4625592", "title": "Buchanan Medal", "text": "Buchanan Medal\n\nThe Buchanan Medal is awarded by the Royal Society \"in recognition of distinguished contribution to the medical sciences generally\". The award was created in 1897 from a fund to the memory of London physician Sir George Buchanan (1831–1895). It was to be awarded once every five years, but since 1990 the medal has been awarded every two years. Since its creation, it has been awarded 28 times, and unlike other Royal Society medals such as the Royal Medal, it has never been awarded to the same individual multiple times. As a result of the criteria for the medal, most of the winners have been doctors or other medical professionals; an exception was Frederick Warner, an engineer who won the medal in 1982 \"for his important role in reducing pollution of the River Thames and of his significant contributions to risk assessment\".\n\nOne winner has also won a Nobel Prize: Barry Marshall, who was awarded the Buchanan Medal in 1998 \"in recognition of his work on discovering the role of Helicobacter pylori as a cause of diseases such as duodenal ulcer, gastric ulcer, gastric cancer and gastritis-associated dyspepsia\" and won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2005. The first winner was John Simon, who won his medal in 1897 \"for his distinguished services as an organizer of medical sanitary administration in this country, and as a promoter of scientific research relating to public health\"; the most recent winner was Peter Ratcliffe, who won the medal in 2017 \"for his ground-breaking research on oxygen sensing and signalling pathways mediating cellular responses to hypoxia.\"\n\nSource: Royal Society\nGeneral\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "39295730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39295730", "title": "Chechens in Austria", "text": "Chechens in Austria\n\nChechens in Austria are Austrian citizens of Chechen descent and Chechen refugees living in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "270992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270992", "title": "Citizen's arrest", "text": "Citizen's arrest\n\nA citizen's arrest is an arrest made by a person who is not acting as a sworn law-enforcement official. In common law jurisdictions, the practice dates back to medieval England and the English common law, in which sheriffs encouraged ordinary citizens to help apprehend law breakers.\n\nDespite the practice's name, in most countries, the arresting person is usually designated as a \"person\" with arrest powers, who need not be a \"citizen\" of the country in which they are acting. For example, in the British jurisdiction of England and Wales, the power comes from section 24A(2) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, called \"any person arrest\". This legislation states \"any person\" has these powers, and does not state that they need to be a British citizen.\n\nA person who makes a citizen's arrest could risk exposing him or herself to possible lawsuits or criminal charges – such as charges of false imprisonment, unlawful restraint, kidnapping, or wrongful arrest – if the wrong person is apprehended or a suspect's civil rights are violated. This is especially true when police forces are attempting to determine who an aggressor is. Private citizens don’t enjoy the same immunity from civil liability when making arrests on other private citizens as police officers.\n\nThe level of responsibility that a person performing a citizen's arrest may bear depends on the jurisdiction. For instance, in France and Germany, a person stopping a criminal from committing a crime, including crimes against belongings, is not criminally responsible as long as the means employed are in proportion to the threat. Note, however, that in both countries, this results from a different legal norm, \"aid to others in immediate danger\", which is concerned with prevention, not prosecution, of crimes.\n\nIn Australia, the power to arrest is granted by both federal and state legislation, however the exact power granted differs depending on jurisdiction. The power to arrest for a Federal offence is granted by s.3Z of the \"Crimes Act\" 1914. Under the Act, a person who is not a police constable may, without warrant, arrest another person if they believe on reasonable grounds that:\n\n\nA person who arrests another person must, as soon as practicable after the arrest, arrange for the other person, and any property found on the other person, to be delivered into the custody of a constable.\n\nIn the Australian state of Victoria, the power to arrest is granted in section 458 of the \"Crimes Act 1958\" (Vic). It states that a person may, without a warrant, arrest a person that they find committing an offence for one or more of the following reasons:\n\nA person may also arrest another person if they are instructed to do so by a member of the police force, or if they believe on reasonable grounds that the offender is escaping legal custody.\n\nSection 461 states that if an arrest is made under 458 of the Crimes Act, and is later proven to be false, then the arrest itself won't be considered unlawful if it was made on reasonable grounds. Section 462A allows any person the right to use force \"not disproportionate to the objective as he believes on reasonable grounds to be necessary to prevent the commission, continuance or completion of an indictable offence or to effect or assist in effecting the lawful arrest of a person committing or suspected of committing any offence\".\n\nIn the Australian state of New South Wales, the power to arrest is granted to anyone who is not a police officer by s.100 of the \"Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002\" of New South Wales. Under the Act, a person may, without a warrant, arrest another person if:\n\nSection 231 of the Act allows the use of such force as is \"reasonably necessary to make the arrest or to prevent the escape of the person after arrest\". A person who arrests another person under s.100 must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take the person, and any property found on the person, before a magistrate to be dealt with according to law. The magistrate will also decide whether or not the force applied in making the arrest was reasonable under the circumstances.\n\nAccording to the Law Society of New South Wales, the arresting person should:\n\nIn the Australian state of Queensland, the power to arrest is granted by s.546 of Schedule 1 to the \"Criminal Code Act 1899\" of Queensland. Under the Act, any person who finds another committing an offence may, without warrant, arrest the other person. The power to arrest in Queensland also allows for arrest on suspicion of an offence:\ns.260 of the Act also provides a power to arrest in preventing a breach of the peace:\nThe Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 (s271) grants arrest powers to a person in South Australia.\n\nUnder the Police Offences Act 1935 (Tasmania), section 55(3), any person may arrest any other person whom they find committing an offence, where they have reasonable grounds to believe that the conduct will create or may involve substantial injury to another person, serious danger of such injury, loss of property or serious injury to property. Section 55(5) states \"For the purposes of this section, a person is said to be 'found offending' if he does any act, or makes any omission, or conducts or behaves himself, and thereby causes a person who finds him reasonable grounds for believing that he has, in respect of such act, omission, or conduct, committed an offence against this Act.\" There are further provisions in section 301 of the Criminal Code Act 1924 (Tas) that appear to allow a sliding scale of force in executing an arrest.\n\nIt was only in 2004 that the Western Australian parliament repealed the provisions of the former section 47 of the Police Act 1892 which allowed any person to arrest without a warrant \"any reputed common prostitute, thief, loose, idle or disorderly person, who, within view of such person apprehending, shall offend against this Act, and shall forthwith deliver him to any constable or police officer of the place where he shall have been apprehended, to be taken and conveyed before a Justice, to be dealt with according to law …\" A private citizen would have found it rather difficult to interpret the terms \"loose\" or \"idle\" with any degree of legal certainty. WA now locates its citizen's arrest powers in section 25 of the Criminal Investigation Act (WA) 2006.\n\n\nGenerally speaking, as regards the law in Australia: where it is clear on the evidence that a private citizen, or security officer, in detaining a suspect, acted reasonably and the suspect unreasonably, then it is likely that the court will find in favour of the citizen or security officer and against the suspect if that suspect chooses, later, to sue the citizen for assault or false imprisonment. In other circumstances where, e.g., a property owner (or an agent) arrests a thief in a manner, and in circumstances, disproportionate to the likely harm to the victim, and in clear defiance of the rights of the suspect (for example, to be taken forthwith to a police station), then the court is very likely to find in favour of the suspect (guilty or otherwise). The courts may order compensation for such suspects in appropriate circumstances.\n\nIn Brazil, a Federal law allows any person to arrest a suspect criminal found in flagrante delicto or fleeing from the crime scene. The person has to, at his/her own judgment, have the physical power to keep the suspect detained, has to verbally explain what he/she is doing to the arrestee and has to call the police. Both have to wait for the arrival of the police. The person who makes a citizen's arrest has to sign the police forms as a witness and explain the facts. Typically it will lead to a time burden of at least two hours. If the facts cannot be verified the person who realizes the citizen's arrest might be sued by the arrestee.\n\nCanada's blanket arrest authorities for crimes or violations of federal statutes are found in the Criminal Code. In Canada, a criminal offence is any offence that is created by a federal statute—there are no provincial \"crimes\".\n\nCriminal offences are divided into three groups: indictable, dual procedure, and summary conviction. For the purposes of arrest, dual procedure offences are considered to be indictable.\n\nThe Criminal Code provisions related to citizen arrests were changed in 2012, by the Citizen's Arrest and Self-defence Act. As a consequence, it is now possible to make a citizen's arrest in Canada in circumstances where a \"reasonable\" amount of time has lapsed between the commission of a property-related offence and the arrest.\n\nThere are several arrest authorities found through the various provincial statutes. The most notable citizen's arrest authority in Ontario is found in the Trespass to Property Act, but there are others found in the Highway Traffic Act, the Liquor Licence Act, and many others.\n\nChinese criminal procedure law empowers \"any citizen\" to make citizen's arrest:\n\nIn Denmark, pursuant to § 755 (2) of the Administration of Justice Act, anyone may arrest a suspect found at or in the immediate vicinity of a crime scene if the criminal act is subject to public prosecution. The arrestee must as soon as possible be turned over to the police with information about the time of and reasons for the arrest.\n\nIn Finland, Coercive Measures Act 22.7.2011/806 gives a right to apprehend someone in the act of committing a crime \"(in flagrante delicto)\" or fleeing from the crime scene, if punishment for the crime might be imprisonment or the crime is petty assault, petty theft, petty embezzlement, petty unauthorized use, petty stealing of a motor vehicle for temporary use, petty damage to property or petty fraud. A person wanted by the police (arrest warrant) can be apprehended by anyone. After the apprehension, the detainee must be handed over to the police as soon as possible. If the criminal is resisting or tries to escape, the law gives a citizen the right to use an amount of force considered necessary, when considering the nature of the crime, the behavior of the apprehended and the situation as a whole.\n\nFrench law allows any person to arrest a person having been caught \"in flagrante delicto\" committing a crime punishable by a jail or prison term, and to conduct that person before the nearest officer of judiciary police – in modern practice, one would rather call the police in after performing the arrest.\n\nCitizen's arrests can be made under § 127 Ⅰ 1 StPO (code of penal procedures) if the arrestee is caught \"in flagrante delicto\" and either the identity of the person cannot be otherwise established immediately or he/she is suspected to try to flee. The person making the arrest is allowed to hold the arrestee solely for the purpose of turning him over to a proper legal authority such as the police. German law does not establish that the crime has to be serious, nor that the person making the arrest has to actually be a citizen of Germany.\n\nCitizen's arrest is known as the \"101 power\". Under the Criminal Procedure Ordinance (cap. 221 of the Laws of Hong Kong), section 101(2) provides that \"Any person may arrest without warrant any person whom he may reasonably suspect of being guilty of an arrestable offence\" using \"force as is reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances\" . Once an arrest is made, the suspect must be delivered to a police office as soon as possible for court proceedings. \"Arrestable offence\" is defined as any crimes that can be sentenced for more than 12 months of jail time.\n\nAccording to article 127, section 3 of \"Act XIX. of 1998 concerning Penal Procedure\", anyone may arrest a person caught committing a felony, but is obliged to hand the person over to the \"investigative authorities\" immediately; if this is not possible, the police must be informed.\n\nSection 43, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 states that:\nAccording to this section any private person may arrest or cause to be arrested\nThe term \"citizen's arrest\" is colloquially used for arrest, without an arrest warrant, made by someone other than a member of the Garda Síochána. Despite the colloquial name, non-Irish citizens have performed such arrests. The law of the Republic of Ireland, being derived from English law, inherited the common law power for private individuals to arrest for felony or breach of the peace. The Criminal Law Act 1997 abolished the common-law distinction between felonies and misdemeanours and instead distinguishes \"arrestable\" and \"non-arrestable\" offences; arrestable offences are those punishable by at least five years' imprisonment, and private individuals may arrest those \"in flagrante\", having committed, or about to commit an arrestable offence. \n\nSeveral other statutes which define offences likewise state \"any person may arrest\" someone committing the offence; relevant offences include \nmaking off without payment, \nhawking revenue stamps,\nand property damage — this last permits arrest for a past crime as well as one in progress. \nIn addition, the Criminal Law (Jurisdiction) Act 1976 schedules offences associated with the Troubles in Northern Ireland, and authorises anyone to arrest someone for committing or having committed such an offence, whether in the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland. The 1976 act, and a similar Westminster act giving reciprocal extraterritorial jurisdiction, obviated the need for extradition between the jurisdictions, which would have been more controversial.\n\nIf the arrester lacks reasonable cause to believe the arrested person to have committed the offence, the latter may sue the former for defamation, wrongful arrest, or trespass. For most offences, a private individual can only make such an arrest if the suspect would otherwise evade arrest by a Garda, and the arrester must surrender the suspect to Garda custody as soon as practicable. An exception is that stamp hawkers must be brought before the District Court. Citizen's arrests are rare; most often they are made by store detectives on shoplifting suspects.\n\nAn Israeli law allowing anyone to arrest a suspect whom they witnessed carrying out a felony was repealed in 1996 and a new law now allows the detention of a suspect by another person under certain conditions. Section 75 of the Criminal Procedure Law (Enforcement Powers – Arrest) of 1996 allows anyone to detain a person who is witnessed carrying out certain suspected crimes. The crimes include the following: a felony, theft, a crime of violence and a crime which has caused serious damage to property. A person using these detention powers may use reasonable force if their request is not met as long as they do not cause the suspect bruising. They must hand the suspect over to the police immediately and no later than three hours. Persons whose identity is known or who are not suspected of fleeing may not be detained. The law, which is relatively new, is used by both private individuals and private security but is problematic because it has not yet been interpreted by the courts. In early 2009, a magistrate's court in Jerusalem handed down a verdict convicting two private security officers of assault following a detention of a suspect who assaulted one of them. The court ruled that the guards were not allowed to detain the suspect who was seated in a taxi at the time and should have waited for the police to arrive.\n\nIn Japan, Section 213 of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows anyone (not only citizens) witnessing any crime in progress to make an arrest. This is called \"genkouhan\" (現行犯, meaning \"in flagrante delicto\"). Most criminals who attempt to flee, or refuse to identify themselves, can be held until police arrive. However, making a citizen's arrest to prevent petty crime (e.g. illegal assembly, accidental injury, accidental trespass, defamation of character, leaving a parking lot without paying) is false imprisonment per Section 220 of the Criminal Code.\n\nCriminal Procedure Law in Latvia gives a right to any person to apprehend someone in the act of committing a crime \"(in flagrante delicto)\" or fleeing from the crime scene, if punishment for the crime might be imprisonment. Also a person wanted by the police, for whom there is an arrest warrant, can be arrested by anyone at any time. A person stopping a criminal from committing a crime is not criminally responsible as long as the means employed are in proportion to the threat. The arrested person must be handed over to the police immediately.\n\n<nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "4471881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4471881", "title": "Colony Club", "text": "Colony Club\n\nThe Colony Club is a women-only private social club in New York City. Founded in 1903 by Florence Jaffray Harriman, wife of J. Borden Harriman, as the first social club established in New York City by and for women, it was modeled on similar clubs for men. Today, men are admitted as guests.\n\nWith other wealthy women, including Anne Tracy Morgan (a daughter of J.P. Morgan), Harriman raised $500,000, and commissioned Stanford White of McKim, Mead & White to build the original clubhouse, later known as the \"Old Colony Club\". This building – at 120 Madison Avenue, between East 30th and East 31st Streets on the west side of Madison – was built between 1904 and 1908 and was modelled on eighteenth-century houses in Annapolis, Maryland.\n\nThe interiors, which exist largely unchanged and have been accorded the landmark status, were created by Elsie de Wolfe – later to become Lady Mendl – a former actress who had recently opened an interior-design business, and whose companion, the theatrical agent Elisabeth Marbury, was one of the club's founders. Stanford White was slain by Harry K. Thaw months before construction of the Colony Club was completed. The building was designed in the Federal Revival style, and has unusual brickwork done in a diaper pattern as a notable feature of its facade.\n\nThe club and the street in front of it were often the site of large suffrage rallies sponsored by the Equal Franchise Society to which many members of the Club belonged.\n\nThe Old Colony Club was sold to Genevieve Garvan Brady after the club moved to its new location in 1916. Today, the building houses the East Coast headquarters of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. It was awarded landmark status by the City of New York in 1966.\n\nThe second clubhouse, located at 564 Park Avenue, also known as 51 East 62nd Street, on the northwest corner, was commissioned in 1913 and constructed from 1914 to 1916. It was designed by Delano & Aldrich in the Neo-Georgian style, with interiors designed by Elsie de Wolfe The building has a marble base with red-brick and marble trim and columns for the upper floors. According to Andrew Dolkart:\n\nIn 1973, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's birthday party was held at the Colony Club (among the guests were four couples whom Kissinger had ordered to wiretapped). In 2007, memorial services for Brooke Astor were held there. The club continues its policy of women-only membership – new members must be recommended by current members — although it was unsuccessfully contested in court in 1987 by conservative radio talk-show host Bob Grant and Sidney Siller, who founded the National Organization for Men.\n\nThe Club presently has approximately 2,500 members who have access to discussions, concerts, and wellness and athletic programs. The Clubhouse consists of seven stories, 25 guest bedrooms, three dining rooms, two ballrooms, a lounge, a squash court, an indoor pool, a fitness facility and three personal spa service rooms. Annual gross revenues are more than $10 million.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "5223750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223750", "title": "Crime in St. Louis", "text": "Crime in St. Louis\n\nCrime in St. Louis includes an overview of crime both in the city of St. Louis and in the Greater St. Louis metropolitan area. Crime in the city increased from the 1960s through the early 1990s as measured by the index crime rate, followed by a decline in crime rates through 2014. Despite decreasing crime, rates of violent crime and property crime in both the city and the metropolitan area remain higher than the national metropolitan area average. In addition, the city of St. Louis consistently has been ranked among the most dangerous cities in the United States. As of April 2017, St. Louis has the highest murder rate in America. At the end of 2017, St. Louis metropolitan had 205 murders with only 159 within the city limit. The new Chief of Police, John Hayden said two-thirds (67%) of all the murders and one-half of all the assaults are concentrated in a triangular area in the North part of the city.\n\nPrior to the 1930s, only sporadic information is available regarding crime in the city and region. As early as 1894, there were 80 homicides in the city, according to the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\". For the period 1901 to 1910, the city recorded 804 homicides, with a homicide rate for the period of 12 per 100,000 residents. In 1915, the city police reported 74 homicides, while 103 people were recorded as having died of homicide by the medical examiner. In 1921, there were 138 homicides in St. Louis according to the St. Louis city coroner, giving a rate of about 14 per 100,000 residents. After 1934, St. Louis reported crime statistics to the FBI, which compiled and published reports of index crime and homicides in the annual Uniform Crime Reports.\n\nStarting in the 1950s, the city of St. Louis saw increases in its index crime and homicide rates, which both peaked in the early 1990s. However, St. Louis saw its peak number of index crimes and homicides in 1969 and 1970, respectively. Although some of the reduction in the number of index crimes since the early 1990s can be attributed to St. Louis's loss of population, other factors include low inflation, the decline of open-air drug markets, and a decline in crack cocaine use.\n\nIn 2009, 67 police departments in St. Louis County reported 33,718 index crimes, and three departments did not report crime to the FBI (these include the departments of Wellston, Normandy, and Lakeshire).\n\nIn 2010, the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department (the city police department) reported 33,782 index crimes, which was the lowest total reported index crimes since 1967 (however, index crimes in 1967 did not include larceny under $50, arson, or non-negligent manslaughter). The index crime rate fell 9.2 percent from 2009, with a 15.6 percent decline in violent crime and a 7.6 percent decline in property crime. However, Chief of Police Daniel Isom noted in the report that both homicides and burglaries remain problems in the city.\n<nowiki>* 74,830 total excl. Aggravated Assault, not reported</nowiki>\n\nIn 2011, the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department reported 113 homicides to the FBI, falling 21% from 2010, and producing a rate of 35.3 per 100,000 residents. In addition, the city reported 31,619 index crimes, a reduction of 5.7% from 2010, for a rate of 9,866.9 per 100,000. For the metropolitan area, the FBI estimated 102,357 index crimes took place in the region in 2011, a 0.8% decline from 2010, for a rate of 3,624.3 per 100,000. The FBI estimated 215 homicides took place in the region in 2011, a decline of 1.8% from 2010, for a rate of 7.6 per 100,000.\n\nFor 2012, preliminary crime data released by the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department showed a decline of 12.4% in crime, with the overall crime rate lower than it was in 1970. St. Louis reported 113 homicides, the same as 2011, while it reported a decline in both violent and property crimes from 2011. Violent crimes declined 4.9%, including a 16.5% decline in robberies to 1,777 the lowest since 1953, while property crime declined 14.2%, with a 28.9% decline in burglaries. Rape was up 5.9%, and vehicle thefts were up 3.6% in 2012. At the end of 2017, St. Louis had 205 murders, up 9% from 2016.\n\nLaw enforcement in the metropolitan area is provided by a variety of municipal and county police departments and by federal agencies. In the city of St. Louis, the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department provides police service, while the city sheriff's department provides courtroom protection services, serves eviction notices, and transports prisoners between courts and jails within the city. In St. Louis County, 67 police departments, including the St. Louis County Police Department, provide police services, while the county also maintains a sheriff's office for courtroom services and civil actions. Nearby counties such as St. Charles County have both municipal police departments and a county-wide sheriff that provide police services. The Missouri State Highway Patrol maintains a troop servicing the region with its headquarters in St. Charles County. An FBI field office is located in the city of St. Louis, while the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives maintains a group supervisor office in the city under the direction of the Kansas City Field Division.\n\nIn 1994, Morgan Quitno (a private research and publishing company purchased by CQ Press in 2007) began publishing reports that named St. Louis City among the \"most dangerous\" cities in the United States. Although the methodology for the reports changed during the 1990s, St. Louis retained its ranking in the top ten most dangerous cities, and it was named the most dangerous city in the United States three times, most recently in 2010.\n\nFor the two years that it was ranked by CQ Press (in 2008 and 2009), the City of St. Louis alone ranked considerably more dangerous than the St. Louis metropolitan statistical area.\n\nSt. Louis's ranking has not been without controversy; University of Missouri–St. Louis professors and criminologists Richard Rosenfeld and Janet Lauritsen criticized the rankings for their lack of transparency and their over-reliance on Uniform Crime Reports as data sources. They argue that the rankings are not meaningful indicators of risk of victimization, as certain factors such as age, lifestyle, and neighborhood play a significant role in crime risk.\n\nUpon St. Louis's ranking as most dangerous city in 2010, the administration of Washington University in St. Louis criticized the rankings as flawed, and representatives for St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay noted that crime in the city decreased each year since 2007 and criticized the report for not including regional crime information.\n\nIn 2014, St Louis was ranked as the 19th most dangerous city in the world by the Mexican aid organisation CCSP-JP (El Consejo Ciudadano para la Seguridad Publica y la Justicia Penal).\n\n"}
{"id": "2214764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214764", "title": "Eliza Armstrong case", "text": "Eliza Armstrong case\n\nThe Eliza Armstrong case was a major scandal in the United Kingdom involving a child supposedly bought for prostitution for the purpose of exposing the evils of white slavery. While it achieved its purpose of helping to enable the passage of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, it also brought unintended consequences to its chief perpetrator, William Thomas Stead.\n\nSince the middle of the 19th century, efforts by the Social Purity movement, led by early feminists such as Josephine Butler and others, sought to improve the treatment of women and children in Victorian society. The movement scored a triumph when the Contagious Diseases Acts were repealed under pressure due to their double standard nature and ultimate ineffectiveness.\n\nAt the same time, the campaign had also turned towards the problem of prostitution, and with male power over women. By the end of the 1870s, this had become particularly focused on fears that British women were being lured—or abducted—to brothels in the Continent, especially since this was happening to girls barely past the age of consent. Although the age was raised to 13 when amendments to the Offences against the Person Act 1861 were made in 1875, the movement sought to further raise this to at least 16, but Parliament of the United Kingdom was reluctant to make this change.\n\nHowever, a Criminal Law Amendment Bill to change this was introduced in 1881. While it passed the House of Lords easily in 1883 after a two-year Select Committee study, it stalled twice in the House of Commons. Then in 1885, it was reintroduced for a third time, but again it was threatened to be set aside ultimately because of a political crisis and the upcoming general election that year.\n\nParliament recessed for the Whit Week bank holiday on 22 May, and the next day Benjamin Scott, anti-vice campaigner and the chamberlain of the City of London, went to see W. T. Stead, editor of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\". Stead was a pioneer of modern investigative journalism, with a flair for the sensational. He was a supporter of the Social Purity movement.\n\nScott told stories of sexually exploited children to Stead, who agreed to work for popular support. Stead set up a \"Special and Secret Committee of Inquiry\" to investigate child prostitution, which included Josephine Butler, as well as representatives of the London Committee for the Suppression of the Traffic in British Girls for the Purposes of Continental Prostitution (of which Scott was the chairman) and the Salvation Army. As part of the investigation, two women, an employee of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" and a girl from the Salvation Army, posed as prostitutes and infiltrated brothels, leaving before they were forced to render sexual services. Butler spent ten days walking the streets of London with her son Georgie, posing as a brothel-keeper and a procurer, respectively; together they spent a total of £100 buying children in high-class brothels. Stead, in turn, also spoke to a former director of criminal investigation at Scotland Yard to get first-hand information; he later cast his net wide to include active and retired brothel keepers, pimps, procurers, prostitutes, rescue workers and jail chaplains.\n\nStead felt that he needed something more to make his point: he decided to purchase a girl to show that he could do it under the nose of the law.\n\nWith the help of Josephine Butler and Bramwell Booth of the Salvation Army, Stead got in touch with Rebecca Jarrett, a reformed prostitute and brothel-keeper who was staying with Mrs Butler in Winchester as an assistant. Although Mrs Butler had no problem with Rebecca's meeting Stead, she did not know Stead's reason for doing so.\n\nStead prevailed upon Jarrett to help him to show that a 13-year-old girl could be bought from her parents and transported to the Continent. Despite her reluctance about returning to her old brothel contacts for help, Jarrett agreed to help.\n\nRebecca Jarrett met an old associate, a procuress called Nancy Broughton. Through her Jarrett learned of a 13-year-old named Eliza Armstrong, whose alcoholic mother Elizabeth was in need of money. She arranged for Jarrett to meet Mrs Armstrong, who lived in the Lisson Grove area of West London, and although Rebecca told the mother the girl was to serve as a maid to an old gentleman, she believed Mrs Armstrong understood that she was selling her daughter into prostitution. The mother agreed to sell her daughter for a total of £5 — equivalent to approximately £574 in 2014. On 3 June, the bargain was made.\n\nOn the same day, Jarrett then took Eliza to a midwife and abortionist named Louise Mourez, who examined her and attested to her virginity and sold Jarrett a bottle of chloroform. Then Eliza was taken to a brothel and lightly drugged to await the arrival of her purchaser, who was Stead. Stead, anxious to play the part of libertine almost in full, drank a whole bottle of champagne, although he was a teetotaler. He entered Eliza's room and waited for her to awaken from her stupor. When she came to, Eliza screamed. Stead quickly left the room, letting the scream imply he had \"had his way\" with her. Eliza was quickly handed over to Bramwell Booth, who spirited her to France, where she was taken care of by a Salvationist family.\n\nIn the meantime, Stead wrote his story.\n\nOn Saturday 4 July 1885, a \"frank warning\" was issued in the \"Pall Mall Gazette\": \"All those who are squeamish, and all those who are prudish, and all those who would prefer to live in a fool's paradise of imaginary innocence and purity, selfishly oblivious to the horrible realities which torment those whose lives are passed in the London inferno, will do well not to read the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" of Monday and the three following days\". The public's appetite whetted sufficiently in anticipation, on Monday 6 July, Stead published the first installments of \"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\".\n\nThe first installment taking up six whole pages, Stead attacked vice with eye-catching subheadings: \"The Violation of Virgins\", \"The Confessions of a Brothel-Keeper\", \"How Girls Were Bought and Ruined\". He argued that while consensual adult behavior was a matter of private morality and not a law enforcement issue, issues rife in London existed that did require legislative prohibition, listing five main areas where the law should intervene:\n\n\nThe theme of \"Maiden Tribute\" was child prostitution, the abduction, procurement and sale of young English virgins to Continental \"pleasure palaces\". Stead took his readers to the labyrinthine streets of London (intentionally recalling the Greek myth) to its darker side, exposing the flesh trade while exposing the corruption of those officials who not only turned a blind eye but also condoned such abuse. Stead acknowledged that his articles described the situation of a small minority of London's prostitutes, agreeing that most \"have not come there by the road of organized rape\", and that his focus was child victims who were \"regularly procured; bought..., or enticed under various promises into the fatal chamber from which they are never allowed to emerge until they have lost what woman ought to value more than life\". In particular, he drew a distinction between sexual \"immorality\" and sexual \"criminality\", and criticized those members of Parliament who were responsible for the Bill's impending \"extinction in the House of Commons\" and hinted that they might have personal reasons to block any changes in the law.\n\nThe disclosure began properly in the 6 July publication, in which Stead reveals that he had asked if genuine maiden virgins could be procured, and being told it was so, asked whether such girls were willing and consensual, or aware of the intentions planned for them:\n\nStead commented that \"Children of twelve and thirteen cannot offer any serious resistance. They only dimly comprehend what it all means. Their mothers sometimes consent to their seduction for the sake of the price paid by their seducer. The child goes to the introducing house as a sheep to the shambles. Once there, she is compelled to go through with it. No matter how brutal the man may be, she cannot escape\". A madam confirmed the story for him, stating of one girl that she was rendered unconscious beforehand, and then coercively given the choice to continue or be homeless afterwards:\n\nThe last section of the first installment bore special mention: under the subheading \"A Child of Thirteen bought for £5\" Stead related the story of Eliza, a purchased victim, whose name he changed to \"Lily\". Although he vouched \"for the absolute accuracy of every fact in the narrative\", Stead changed a number of details, and omitted the fact that \"Lily's\" purchaser was none other than himself. Describing himself as an \"investigator\" rather than an \"informer\", and having also promised not to use information obtained against those who provided it, he stated that he would disclose actual names and identifying details only to the two UK Archbishops, one M.P., two members of the House of Lords active in criminal legislation or child protection, and a past director of the CID.\n\nThe \"Maiden Tribute\" was an instant hit. While W.H. Smith & Sons, who had a monopoly on all the news stalls, refused to sell the paper due to its lurid and prurient content, volunteers consisting of newsboys and members of the Salvation Army took over distribution. Even George Bernard Shaw telegraphed Stead offering to help. Crowds gathered in front of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" offices. Second-hand copies of the paper sold for up to a shilling — twelve times its normal price.\n\nWithin days, Stead had been getting telegrams from across the Atlantic inquiring about the scandal. By the end of the series he had thrown Victorian society into an uproar about prostitution. Fearing riots on a national scale, the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt pleaded with Stead to cease publication of the articles; Stead replied that he would comply if the Bill would be passed without delay. Since Harcourt could not make that guarantee, Stead ordered the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" presses to continue until paper ran out.\n\nStead's revelations struck a responsive chord in the public. Amidst the hysteria, it provoked a wide variety of reform groups and prominent individuals to call for an end to the scandal. Dozens of protest meetings were held throughout London and the provincial towns. Thousands, including wagon loads of virgins dressed in white, marched to Hyde Park demanding that the Bill be passed. The government was soon on the defensive and those members of Parliament who had previously opposed the Bill, now understood that opposition would not only mean denying the existence of child prostitution, but condoning it as well. While many of them wanted to have the paper prosecuted under obscenity laws, they bowed to the inevitable. On Wednesday 8 July debate resumed over the bill, on 7 August it passed its third and final reading, and passed into law a week later.\n\nAlthough Stead was supported in his investigation by the Salvation Army and religious leaders including Cardinal Henry Edward Manning and Charles John Ellicott, the Bishop of Bristol, his plan backfired on him. Rival newspapers, including \"The Times\", investigated the original \"Lily\" and found that Stead was the \"purchaser\". Mrs Armstrong told police that she had not consented to put her daughter into prostitution, saying she understood that she would enter domestic service. Jarrett did not get the permission of the child's father.\n\nStead, Jarrett, Booth and Louise Mourez, the midwife, and two others appeared in court on 2 September charged with the assault and abduction for Eliza Armstrong without the agreement of her parents.\n\nOn 23 October, the defendants were brought to trial, with the Attorney General, Richard Webster, acting as prosecutor. Stead defended himself. He admitted that the girl was procured without the consent of the father and that he had no written evidence of payment to the mother. Stead had relied on Rebecca Jarrett's word, and was unable to prove Mrs Armstrong's complicity in the crime. Stead, Jarrett and Mourez were found guilty of abduction and procurement. The others were acquitted. Jarrett and Mourez were sentenced to six months in jail and Stead was sentenced to three months. He was sent to Coldbath Fields Prison for three days and then to Holloway as a first-class inmate for the rest of his sentence.\n\nMany groups protested against Stead's imprisonment, and he was treated well in prison. \"Never had I a pleasanter holiday, a more charming season of repose\", he later said. In Holloway as a \"first class misdemeanant\" he had his own room with an open fire and a fellow prisoner as a servant to tend to him. His wife and children were allowed in for Christmas. Mourez died in jail. Jarrett survived her six months with hard labour. While in prison, he continued to edit the \"Pall Mall Gazette\", and his Christmas card played up his martyrdom. Stead wrote a threepenny pamphlet of his prison experience soon after his release. He asked the prison governor whether he could keep his prison uniform, although he spent much of his sentence in ordinary civilian street clothes. The governor agreed, and thereafter, every 10 November, the anniversary of his conviction, Stead would dress up in his prison garb to remind people of his \"triumph\".\n\nAfter the trial the prosecutor, surnamed Poland, started a public subscription for the Armstrong family through an advertisement in \"The Times\". The money paid for Eliza to attend a training centre for girls to become servants. She lost connection with the Salvation Army after her return from France, and details of her later life are unknown.\n\nStead died in the \"Titanic\" disaster.\n\n"}
{"id": "5030939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5030939", "title": "Environmental management system", "text": "Environmental management system\n\nEnvironmental management system (EMS) refers to the management of an organization's environmental programs in a comprehensive, systematic, planned and documented manner. It includes the organizational structure, planning and resources for developing, implementing and maintaining policy for environmental protection.\n\nMore formally, EMS is \"a system and database which integrates procedures and processes for training of personnel, monitoring, summarizing, and reporting of specialized environmental performance information to internal and external stakeholders of a firm\".\n\nThe most widely used standard on which an EMS is based is International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 2004. Alternatives include the EMAS.\n\nAn environmental management information system (EMIS) or Environmental Data Management System (EDMS) is an information technology solution for tracking environmental data for a company as part of their overall environmental management system.\n\nThe goals of EMS are to increase compliance and reduce waste:\n\n\nTo meet these goals, the selection of environmental management systems is typically subject to a certain set of criteria: a proven capability to handle high frequency data, high performance indicators, transparent handling and processing of data, powerful calculation engine, customised factor handling, multiple integration capabilities, automation of workflows and QA processes and in-depth, flexible reporting.\n\nAn environmental management system (EMS):\n\n\nAn EMS follows a Plan-Do-Check-Act, or PDCA, Cycle. The diagram shows the process of first developing an environmental policy, planning the EMS, and then implementing it. The process also includes checking the system and acting on it. The model is continuous because an EMS is a process of continual improvement in which an organization is constantly reviewing and revising the system.\n\nThis is a model that can be used by a wide range of organizations — from manufacturing facilities to service industries to government agencies.\n\nEnvironmental Data Management Systems (EDMS) can be accredited under the UK Environment Agency's Monitoring Certification Scheme (MCERTS) for performance standards and test procedures.\n\nAn EMS can also be classified as \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236647", "title": "Erotic massage", "text": "Erotic massage\n\nErotic massage or sensuous massage is the use of massage techniques by a person on another person's erogenous zones to achieve or enhance their sexual excitation or arousal and to achieve orgasm. Massages have been used for medical purposes for a very long time, and their use for erotic purposes also has a long history. In the case of women, the two focal areas are the breasts and pubis, while in case of men, the focal area is the male genitals. When the massage is of a partner's genitals, the act is usually referred to as mutual masturbation. \n\nToday, erotic massage is used by some people on occasion as a part of sex, either as foreplay or as the final sex act, or as part of sex therapy. There is also a large commercial erotic massage industry in some countries and cities.\n\nAn erotic and sexual massage may be provided by independent providers, providers of broader sexual services, or through organized massage parlors or brothels. It takes many forms, from massage techniques that aim to integrate the sexual, spiritual and physical, to massage whose purpose is the achievement of an orgasm through a handjob, oral sex, or sexual intercourse. \n\nA 'happy ending' is a colloquial term for the practice of a provider offering sexual release to a client. This is sometimes offered as an addition to any other type of massage, typically in the form of a handjob. The 2009 documentary \"Happy Endings?\" follows women who worked in Asian massage parlors in Rhode Island. The film focuses on \"full service\" massage parlors, although \"rub and tug\" massage parlors (where only handjobs are offered) are also covered. Prostitution in Rhode Island was legal at the time of filming.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, an erotic and sexual massage is regarded as a sexual service, the legality of which varies between jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, an erotic massage may be legal, while prostitution is not.\n\nErotic massage may be used in sex therapy as a means of stimulating the libido or increasing the ability of a person to respond positively to sensual stimulus. In some cases, erotic massage can be a form of foreplay without sexual gratification, intended to heighten the sensitivity of an individual prior to another engagement where sexual arousal and fulfillment is intended. In other cases, erotic massage may be used professionally to help men address issues of premature ejaculation. Methods employed may teach the recipient to relax the musculature of his pelvis and thus prolong arousal and increase pleasure.\n\nIn the Western medical tradition, genital massage of a woman to orgasm by a physician or midwife was a standard treatment for female hysteria, an ailment considered common and chronic in women. In 1653, Pieter van Foreest advised the technique of genital massage for a disease called \"womb disease\" to bring the woman into \"hysterical paroxysm\".\n\nSuch cases were quite profitable for physicians, since the patients were at no risk of death but needed constant treatment. However, the vaginal massage procedure (generally referred to as 'pelvic massage') was tedious and time-consuming for physicians. The technique was difficult for a physician to master and could take hours to achieve \"hysterical paroxysm\". Referral to midwives, which had been common practice, meant a loss of business for the physician, and, at times, husbands were asked to assist.\n\nA solution was the invention of massage devices, which shortened the needed treatment from hours to minutes, removing the need for midwives and increasing a physician's treatment capacity. Already at the turn of the century, hydrotherapy devices were available at Bath, and by the mid-19th century, they were popular at many high-profile bathing resorts across Europe and in America. By 1870, a clockwork-driven vibrator was available for physicians. In 1873, the first electromechanical vibrator was used at an asylum in France for the treatment of hysteria.\n\nWhile physicians of the period acknowledged that the disorder stemmed from sexual dissatisfaction, they seemed unaware of or unwilling to admit the sexual purposes of the devices used to treat it. In fact, the introduction of the speculum was far more controversial than that of the vibrator.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, the spread of home electricity brought the vibrator to the consumer market. The appeal of cheaper treatment in the privacy of one's own home understandably made the vibrator a popular early home appliance. In fact, the electric home vibrator was on the market before many other home appliance \"essentials\": nine years before the electric vacuum cleaner and 10 years before the electric iron. A page from a Sears catalog of home electrical appliances from 1918 includes a portable vibrator with attachments, billed as \"very useful and satisfactory for home service\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24934666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24934666", "title": "Face Oculta", "text": "Face Oculta\n\nFace Oculta (Hidden Face) is a Portuguese nationwide political corruption, money-laundering and corporate tax evasion scandal, first noticed in October 2009. The \"Polícia Judiciária\" investigated the business group headed by Manuel Godinho, suspected of economic crimes and bribery of managers of public funds. All Godinho’s companies, many of which were linked to business waste and waste management, are based in the Aveiro District. Godinho was arrested on October 28, 2009, in Aveiro, in relation to economic crimes involving an oxygen-treatment and environmental cleaning group. By early November, 14 people had been indicted. Several companies' employees were investigated, among them those of Petrogal and Portucel Soporcel. Also investigated were GNR officers, town hall civil servants (most notoriously from the Gouveia Municipality), businesspersons (most prominently Manuel Godinho and his right-hand man, Namércio Cunha, a formal suspect and alleged liaison between Godinho and REN, the company led by José Penedos), and former politicians - noted examples include Armando Vara (Millennium bcp) and José Penedos (REN). Former politician Armando Vara is reported by the police investigation to have had suspicious phone calls with the then Portuguese Prime Minister José Sócrates. These phone calls were recorded by the investigators. Sócrates denied any involvement, claiming he was only talking to a friend. Sócrates was not indicted at the time, but fourteen other people were. Sócrates was subsequently arrested in November 2014 and indicted in a separate investigation.\n\nThe case ended in September 2014 with the following being convicted:\n"}
{"id": "10607261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10607261", "title": "Folding (chemistry)", "text": "Folding (chemistry)\n\nIn chemistry, folding is the process by which a molecule assumes its shape or conformation. The process can also be described as intramolecular self-assembly, a type of molecular self-assembly, where the molecule is directed to form a specific shape through noncovalent interactions, such as hydrogen bonding, metal coordination, hydrophobic forces, van der Waals forces, pi-pi interactions, and/or electrostatic effects. \n\nThe most active area of interest in the folding of molecules is the process of protein folding, which is the shape that is assumed by a specific sequence of amino acids in a protein. The shape of the folded protein can be used to understand its function and design drugs to influence the processes that it is involved in. \n\nThere is also a great deal of interest in the construction of artificial folding molecules or foldamers. They are studied as models of biological molecules and potential application to the development of new functional materials. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2098688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2098688", "title": "Gelao language", "text": "Gelao language\n\nGelao (autonym: Kláo, Chinese: 仡佬 Gēlǎo, Vietnamese: Cờ Lao) is a dialect cluster of Kra languages in the Kra–Dai language family. It is spoken by the Gelao people in southern China and northern Vietnam. Despite an ethnic population of 580,000 (2000 census), only a few thousand still speak Gelao. Estimates run from 3,000 in China by Li in 1999, of which 500 are monolinguals, to 7,900 by Edmondson in 2008. Edmondson (2002) estimates that the three Gelao varieties of Vietnam have only about 350 speakers altogether.\n\nIn 2009, a book allegedly written in a native Gelao script was found in Guizhou, China, but scholarship reveals it is certainly fake.\n\nLike Buyang, another Kra language, Gelao contains many words which are likely to be Austronesian cognates. (\"See Austro-Tai\".)\n\nAs noted by Li and Zhou, Gelao shares much vocabulary with the Hlai and Ong Be languages, suggesting contact with Pre-Hlai speakers before their migration to Hainan.\n\nZhang Jimin estimated a total of over 10,000 Gelao speakers in the early 1990s, while Li Jinfang places this number at 3,000 in 1999. Jerold A. Edmondson's 2008 estimate is 7,900 speakers. This number is rapidly declining, as the Gelao are intermarrying with the neighboring Han, Bouyei, and Miao. Many Gelao speakers can also speak Bouyei, Zhuang, or Miao, and nearly all can speak local varieties of Chinese. Among Gelao-speaking families, most middle-age Gelao have very limited speaking abilities for Gelao, while much of the younger generation cannot even understand the most simple words and phrases.\n\nThe Mulao number 28,000 people, and are distributed in Majiang, Kaili, Huangping, Duyun, Weng'an, Fuquan, and other counties of southeastern Guizhou. The Mulao of Xuanwei and Jidong villages refer to themselves as the \"Mu\", in Longli village 龙里寨 they call themselves '. The Mulao speak a variety of Gelao, and not the Mulam language of Guangxi, which is also called Mulao. Luo (1997) describes the two Mulao varieties of ' (') in Majiang County and ' in Kaili City. One dialect is represented by the datapoints of Bamaozhai 巴茅寨 and Madizhai 马碲寨 of Xuanwei District 宣威区, Majiang County (Luo 1997:105, 115), and the other by Bailazhai 白腊寨, Lushan Town 炉山镇, Kaili City (Luo 1997:189); the latter is also spoken in Dafengdong 大风洞, Pingliang 平良, and Chong'anjiang 重安江. Mulao data from Majiang and Kaili are also given in Guizhou (1985). also \n\nThe extinct (土蛮语) of Sinan County, Guizhou was a variety of Gelao.\n\nIn Qingzhen City, Gelao is spoken in the following villages (Qingzhen 2004:25-30).\n\nZhou (2004) reports that there are no more than 6,000 Gelao speakers, making up only 1.2% of the total number of ethnic Gelao people. The following table, based on Zhou (2004:150–151), shows the number of Gelao speakers in each county as of the 1990s. All counties are in Guizhou province unless specified otherwise.\n\nThe Gelao people in the following counties do not speak any form of the Gelao language whatsoever, and have shifted entirely to Southwestern Mandarin.\n\nThe most endangered variety, Red Gelao of Vietnam, is spoken by only about 50 people. Many speakers have shifted to Southwestern Mandarin or Hmong. The Red Gelao people, who call themselves the ', send brides back and forth among the villages of Na Khê and Bạch Đích (or Bìch Đich) in Yên Minh District, Hà Giang Province, Vietnam and another village in Fanpo, Malipo County, Yunnan, China (autonym: ') in order to ensure the continual survival of their ethnic group. Edmondson (1998) reports that there are also Red Gelao people in Cán Tí, Quản Bạ District and Túng Sán, Hoàng Su Phì District who no longer speak any Gelao, and speak Hmong, Tay, or Vietnamese instead. Hoang (2013:12) reports that there also some Red Gelao in Vĩnh Hảo commune, Bắc Quang District who had moved from Túng Sán commune. However, the White Gelao of Phố La Village and Sính Lủng Village of Dồng Văn District still speak the White Gelao language.\n\nGelao is not well documented, having only been studied by a few scholars such as Li Jinfang, Jerold A. Edmondson, Weera Ostapirat, and Zhang Jimin. The three varieties in Vietnam are not mutually intelligible, and three varieties in China may be distinct languages as well. \"Ethnologue\" classifies Gelao as four languages, perhaps as closely related to the two Lachi languages as they are to each other.\n\nOstapirat (2000) proposed three major subdivisions for Gelao, with a total of 17 varieties. The Central and Southwestern branches shares various phonological innovations, suggesting an initial split with the Northern branch. Some varieties cited are also from Jerold A. Edmondson (2008). Edmondson also proposes that Red Gelao of the China-Vietnam border may in fact constitute a separate primary branch of Gelao.\n\nCentral (Gao)\n\nNorthern (Red Gelao)\n\nSouthwestern (White and Green Gelao)\n\nZhang Jimin (1993) recognizes the following subdivisions of Gelao.\n\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of the World's Endangered Languages\" groups Gelao into five subdivisions.\n\n\nThe most extensively studied varieties are the Wanzi and Zhenfeng dialects, while the most endangered one is Red Gelao.\n\nZhou (2004) lists four dialects of Gelao.\n\n\nWei Mingying (2008:45) classifies the Gelao dialects as follows.\n\n\nAndrew Hsiu (2013) classifies the Gelao dialects as follows.\n\nGelao has many uvular and prenasalized consonants. Many varieties also preserve consonant clusters that have been lost in most other related languages. These consonant clusters, such as , correspond regularly with consonants in Lachi, Mulao, Qabiao (Pubiao), Buyang, and various Kam–Tai languages. Gelao also shares many phonological features with Bouyei and other neighboring non-Kra languages.\n\nMany Gelao varieties have a total of six tones, including two level tones (' and '), two rising tones (' and '), and two falling tones (' and ').\n\nSound correspondences between the Liuzhi (六枝) and Zhenfeng (贞丰) varieties include:\n\n[Liuzhi : Zhenfeng]\n\nLike all of its surrounding languages, Gelao is a head-first, SVO language. Like Buyang, one unusual feature of Gelao is that negatives usually come at the end of a sentence. Reduplication is very common and is used for diminutive or repetitive purposes. Other common features include the use of serial verb constructions and compound nouns. Although numerals and classifiers precede nouns, adjectives (including demonstratives) always follow the noun. Function words, such as prepositions and auxiliary words, are often derived from verbs.\n\nLike Buyang and Dong, Gelao retains many prefixes that have been lost in most other Kra–Dai languages. Zhang (1993:300) notes that the Moji (磨基) Longlin variant makes especially extensive use of prefixing syllables before nouns, verbs, and adjectives. These prefixes are especially important for reconstruction purposes.\n\nMany words in Gelao are derived from vernacular Southwest Mandarin Chinese. These loanwords are often used interchangeably with native Gelao words. There is also a highly rich system of classifiers.\n\nGelao also has a rich set of pronouns not attested in other Kra–Dai languages. There are also pronouns referring to one's household in particular. The following are pronouns from Pingba Gelao.\n\n\nPingba Gelao numerals are given below. Note the similarities with the Austronesian numeral system.\n\n\n\nWord lists\n"}
{"id": "67898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67898", "title": "Hair (musical)", "text": "Hair (musical)\n\nHair: The American Tribal Love-Rock Musical is a rock musical with a book and lyrics by Gerome Ragni and James Rado and music by Galt MacDermot. A product of the hippie counterculture and sexual revolution of the late 1960s, several of its songs became anthems of the anti-Vietnam War peace movement. The musical's profanity, its depiction of the use of illegal drugs, its treatment of sexuality, its irreverence for the American flag, and its nude scene caused much comment and controversy. The musical broke new ground in musical theatre by defining the genre of \"rock musical\", using a racially integrated cast, and inviting the audience onstage for a \"Be-In\" finale.\n\n\"Hair\" tells the story of the \"tribe\", a group of politically active, long-haired hippies of the \"Age of Aquarius\" living a bohemian life in New York City and fighting against conscription into the Vietnam War. Claude, his good friend Berger, their roommate Sheila and their friends struggle to balance their young lives, loves, and the sexual revolution with their rebellion against the war and their conservative parents and society. Ultimately, Claude must decide whether to resist the draft as his friends have done, or to succumb to the pressures of his parents (and conservative America) to serve in Vietnam, compromising his pacifist principles and risking his life.\n\nAfter an off-Broadway debut on October 17, 1967, at Joseph Papp's Public Theater and a subsequent run at the Cheetah nightclub from December 1967 through January 1968, the show opened on Broadway in April 1968 and ran for 1,750 performances. Simultaneous productions in cities across the United States and Europe followed shortly thereafter, including a successful London production that ran for 1,997 performances. Since then, numerous productions have been staged around the world, spawning dozens of recordings of the musical, including the 3 million-selling original Broadway cast recording. Some of the songs from its score became Top 10 hits, and a feature film adaptation was released in 1979. A Broadway revival opened in 2009, earning strong reviews and winning the Tony Award and Drama Desk Award for Best Revival of a Musical. In 2008, \"Time\" wrote, \"Today \"Hair\" seems, if anything, more daring than ever.\"\n\n\"Hair\" was conceived by actors James Rado and Gerome Ragni. The two met in 1964 when they performed together in the Off-Broadway flop \"Hang Down Your Head and Die\", and they began writing \"Hair\" together in late 1964. The main characters were autobiographical, with Rado's Claude being a pensive romantic and Ragni's Berger an extrovert. Their close relationship, including its volatility, was reflected in the musical. Rado explained, \"We were great friends. It was a passionate kind of relationship that we directed into creativity, into writing, into creating this piece. We put the drama between us on stage.\"\n\nRado described the inspiration for \"Hair\" as \"a combination of some characters we met in the streets, people we knew and our own imaginations. We knew this group of kids in the East Village who were dropping out and dodging the draft, and there were also lots of articles in the press about how kids were being kicked out of school for growing their hair long\". He recalled, \"There was so much excitement in the streets and the parks and the hippie areas, and we thought if we could transmit this excitement to the stage it would be wonderful. ... We hung out with them and went to their Be-Ins [and] let our hair grow.\" Many cast members (Shelley Plimpton in particular) were recruited right off the street. Rado said, \"It was very important historically, and if we hadn't written it, there'd not be any examples. You could read about it and see film clips, but you'd never \"experience\" it. We thought, 'This is happening in the streets', and we wanted to bring it to the stage.\"\n\nRado and Ragni came from different artistic backgrounds. In college, Rado wrote musical revues and aspired to be a Broadway composer in the Rodgers and Hammerstein tradition. He went on to study acting with Lee Strasberg. Ragni, on the other hand, was an active member of The Open Theater, one of several groups, mostly Off-off Broadway, that were developing experimental theatre techniques. He introduced Rado to the modern theatre styles and methods being developed at The Open Theater. In 1966, while the two were developing \"Hair\", Ragni performed in The Open Theater's production of Megan Terry's play, \"Viet Rock\", a story about young men being deployed to the Vietnam War. In addition to the war theme, \"Viet Rock\" employed the improvisational exercises being used in the experimental theatre scene and later used in the development of \"Hair\".\n\nRado and Ragni brought their drafts of the show to producer Eric Blau who, through common friend Nat Shapiro, connected the two with Canadian composer Galt MacDermot. MacDermot had won a Grammy Award in 1961 for his composition \"African Waltz\" (recorded by Cannonball Adderley). The composer's lifestyle was in marked contrast to his co-creators: \"I had short hair, a wife, and, at that point, four children, and I lived on Staten Island.\" \"I never even heard of a hippie when I met Rado and Ragni.\" But he shared their enthusiasm to do a rock and roll show. \"We work independently\", explained MacDermot in May 1968. \"I prefer it that way. They hand me the material. I set it to music.\" MacDermot wrote the first score in three weeks, starting with the songs \"I Got Life\", \"Ain't Got No\", \"Where Do I Go\" and the title song. He first wrote \"Aquarius\" as an unconventional art piece, but later rewrote it into an uplifting anthem.\n\nThe creators pitched the show to Broadway producers and received many rejections. Eventually Joe Papp, who ran the New York Shakespeare Festival, decided he wanted \"Hair\" to open the new Public Theater (still under construction) in New York City's East Village. The musical was the first work by living authors that Papp produced. The production did not go smoothly: \"The rehearsal and casting process was confused, the material itself incomprehensible to many of the theater's staff. The director, Gerald Freedman, the theater's associate artistic director, withdrew in frustration during the final week of rehearsals and offered his resignation. Papp accepted it, and the choreographer Anna Sokolow took over the show. ... After a disastrous final dress rehearsal, Papp wired Mr. Freedman in Washington, where he'd fled: 'Please come back.' Mr. Freedman did.\"\n\n\"Hair\" premiered off-Broadway at the Public on October 17, 1967, and ran for a limited engagement of six weeks. The lead roles were played by Walker Daniels as Claude, Ragni as Berger, Jill O'Hara as Sheila, Steve Dean as Woof, Arnold Wilkerson as Hud, Sally Eaton as Jeanie and Shelley Plimpton as Crissy. Set design was by Ming Cho Lee, costume design by Theoni Aldredge, and although Anna Sokolow began rehearsals as choreographer, Freedman received choreographer credit. Although the production had a \"tepid critical reception\", it was popular with audiences. A cast album was released in 1967.\n\nChicago businessman Michael Butler was planning to run for the U.S. Senate on an anti-war platform. After seeing an ad for \"Hair\" in \"The New York Times\" that led him to believe the show was about Native Americans, he watched the Public's production several times and joined forces with Joe Papp to reproduce the show at another New York venue after the close of its run at the Public. Papp and Butler first moved the show to The Cheetah, a discothèque at 53rd Street and Broadway. It opened there on December 22, 1967, and ran for 45 performances. There was no nudity in either the Public Theater or Cheetah production.\n\n\"Hair\" underwent a thorough overhaul between its closing at the Cheetah in January 1968 and its Broadway opening three months later. The off-Broadway book, already light on plot, was loosened even further and made more realistic. were added, including \"Let the Sun Shine In\", to make the ending more uplifting.\n\nBefore the move to Broadway, the creative team hired director Tom O'Horgan, who had built a reputation directing experimental theater at the La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club. He had been the authors' first choice to direct the Public Theater production, but he was in Europe at the time. \"Newsweek\" described O'Horgan's directing style as \"sensual, savage, and thoroughly musical ... [he] disintegrates verbal structure and often breaks up and distributes narrative and even character among different actors. ... He enjoys sensory bombardment.\" In rehearsals, O'Horgan used techniques passed down by Viola Spolin and Paul Sills involving role playing and improvisational \"games\". Many of the improvisations tried during this process were incorporated into the Broadway script. O'Horgan and new choreographer Julie Arenal encouraged freedom and spontaneity in their actors, introducing \"an organic, expansive style of staging\" that had never been seen before on Broadway. The inspiration to include nudity came when the authors saw an anti-war demonstration in Central Park where two men stripped naked as an expression of defiance and freedom, and they decided to incorporate the idea into the show. O'Horgan had used nudity in many of the plays he directed, and he helped integrate the idea into the fabric of the show.\n\nPapp declined to pursue a Broadway production, and so Butler produced the show himself. For a time it seemed that Butler would be unable to secure a Broadway theater, as the Shuberts, Nederlanders and other theater owners deemed the material too controversial. However, Butler had family connections and knew important people; he persuaded Biltmore Theatre owner David Cogan to make his venue available.\n\nClaude, the nominal leader of the \"tribe\", sits center stage as the tribe mingles with the audience. Tribe members Sheila, a New York University student who is a determined political activist, and Berger, an irreverent free spirit, cut a lock of Claude's hair and burn it in a receptacle. After the tribe converges in slow-motion toward the stage, through the audience, they begin their celebration as children of the Age of Aquarius (\"Aquarius\"). Berger removes his trousers to reveal a loincloth. Interacting with the audience, he introduces himself as a \"psychedelic teddy bear\" and reveals that he is \"looking for my Donna\" (\"Donna\").\n\nThe tribe recites a list of pharmaceuticals, legal and illegal (\"Hashish\"). Woof, a gentle soul, extols several sexual practices (\"Sodomy\") and says, \"I grow things.\" He loves plants, his family and the audience, telling the audience, \"We are all one.\" Hud, a militant African-American, is carried in upside down on a pole. He declares himself \"president of the United States of Love\" (\"Colored Spade\"). In a fake English accent, Claude says that he is \"the most beautiful beast in the forest\" from \"Manchester, England\". A tribe member reminds him that he's really from Flushing, New York (\"Manchester England\"). Hud, Woof and Berger declare what color they are (\"I'm Black\"), while Claude says that he's \"invisible\". The tribe recites a list of things they lack (\"Ain't Got No\"). Four African-American tribe members recite street signs in symbolic sequence (\"Dead End\").\n\nSheila is carried onstage (\"I Believe in Love\") and leads the tribe in a protest chant. Jeanie, an eccentric young woman, appears wearing a gas mask, satirizing pollution (\"Air\"). She is pregnant and in love with Claude. Although she wishes it was Claude's baby, she was \"knocked up by some crazy speed freak\". The tribe link together LBJ (President Lyndon B. Johnson), FBI (the Federal Bureau of Investigation), CIA (the Central Intelligence Agency) and LSD (\"Initials\"). Six members of the tribe appear dressed as Claude's parents, berating him for his various transgressions – he does not have a job, and he collects \"mountains of paper\" clippings and notes. They say that they will not give him any more money, and \"the army'll make a man out of you\", presenting him with his draft notice. In defiance, Claude leads the tribe in celebrating their vitality (\"I Got Life\").\n\nAfter handing out imaginary pills to the tribe members, saying the pills are for high-profile people such as Richard Nixon, the Pope, and \"Alabama Wallace\", Berger relates how he was expelled from high school. Three tribe members dress up as principals in Hitler mustaches and swastika arm bands, mocking the American education system. Berger and the tribe defy them, singing \"Going Down\". Claude returns from his draft board physical, which he passed. He pretends to burn his Vietnam War draft card, which Berger reveals as a library card. Claude agonizes about what to do about being drafted.\n\nTwo tribe members dressed as tourists come down the aisle to ask the tribe why they have such long hair. In answer, Claude and Berger lead the tribe in explaining the significance of their locks (\"Hair\"). The woman states that kids should \"be free, no guilt\" and should \"do whatever you want, just so long as you don't hurt anyone.\" She observes that long hair is natural, like the \"elegant plumage\" of male birds (\"My Conviction\"). She opens her coat to reveal that she's a man in drag. As the couple leaves, the tribe calls her Margaret Mead.\n\nSheila gives Berger a yellow shirt. He goofs around and ends up tearing it in two. Sheila voices her distress that Berger seems to care more about the \"bleeding crowd\" than about her (\"Easy to Be Hard\"). Jeanie summarizes everyone's romantic entanglements: \"I'm hung up on Claude, Sheila's hung up on Berger, Berger is hung up everywhere. Claude is hung up on a cross over Sheila and Berger.\" Berger, Woof and another tribe member pay satiric tribute to the American flag as they fold it (\"Don't Put it Down\"). The tribe runs out to the audience, inviting them to a Be-In. After young and innocent Crissy describes \"Frank Mills\", a boy she's looking for, the tribe participates in the \"Be-In\". The men of the tribe burn their draft cards. Claude puts his card in the fire, then changes his mind and pulls it out. He asks, \"where is the something, where is the someone, that tells me why I live and die?\" (\"Where Do I Go\"). The tribe emerges naked, intoning \"beads, flowers, freedom, happiness.\"\n\nFour tribe members have the \"Electric Blues\". After a black-out, the tribe enters worshiping in an attempt to summon Claude (\"Oh Great God of Power\"). Claude returns from the induction center, and tribe members act out an imagined conversation from Claude's draft interview, with Hud saying \"the draft is white people sending black people to make war on the yellow people to defend the land they stole from the red people\". Claude gives Woof a Mick Jagger poster, and Woof is excited about the gift, as he has said he's hung up on Jagger. Three white women of the tribe tell why they like \"Black Boys\" (\"black boys are delicious ...\"), and three black women of the tribe, dressed like The Supremes, explain why they like \"White Boys\" (\"white boys are so pretty ...\").\n\nBerger gives a joint to Claude that is laced with a hallucinogen. Claude starts to trip as the tribe acts out his visions (\"Walking in Space\"). He hallucinates that he is skydiving from a plane into the jungles of Vietnam. Berger appears as General George Washington and is told to retreat because of an Indian attack. The Indians shoot all of Washington's men. General Ulysses S. Grant appears and begins a roll call: Abraham Lincoln (played by a black female tribe member), John Wilkes Booth, Calvin Coolidge, Clark Gable, Scarlett O'Hara, Aretha Franklin, Colonel George Custer. Claude Bukowski is called in the roll call, but Clark Gable says \"he couldn't make it\". They all dance a minuet until three African witch doctors kill them – all except for Abraham Lincoln who says, \"I'm one of you\". Lincoln, after the three Africans sing his praises, recites an alternate version of the Gettysburg Address (\"Abie Baby\"). Booth shoots Lincoln, but Lincoln says to him, \"I ain't dying for no white man\".\n\nAs the visions continue, enter. One monk pours a can of gasoline over another monk, who is set afire (reminiscent of the self-immolation of Thích Quảng Đức) and runs off screaming. strangle the . shoot the nuns with ray guns. people stab the astronauts with knives. kill the Chinese with bows and tomahawks. kill the Native Americans with machine guns and then kill each other. A Sergeant and two parents appear holding up a suit on a hanger. The parents talk to the suit as if it is their son and they are very proud of him. The bodies rise and play like children. The play escalates to violence until they are all dead again. They rise again and comment about the casualties in Vietnam: \"It's a dirty little war\" (\"Three-Five-Zero-Zero\"). At the end of the trip sequence, two tribe members sing, over the dead bodies, a melody set to a Shakespeare speech about the nobility of Man (\"What A Piece of Work Is Man\").\n\nAfter the trip, Claude says \"I can't take this moment to moment living on the streets. ... I know what I want to be ... invisible\". As they \"look at the moon,\" Sheila and the others enjoy a light moment (\"Good Morning Starshine\"). The tribe pays tribute to an old mattress (\"The Bed\"). Claude is left alone with his doubts. He leaves as the tribe enters wrapped in blankets in the midst of a snow storm. They start a protest chant and then wonder where Claude has gone. Berger calls out \"Claude! Claude!\" Claude enters dressed in a military uniform, his hair short, but they do not see him because he is an invisible spirit. Claude says, \"like it or not, they got me.\"\n\nClaude and everyone sing \"Flesh Failures\". The tribe moves in front of Claude as Sheila and Dionne take up the lyric. The whole tribe launches into \"Let the Sun Shine In\", and as they exit, they reveal Claude lying down center stage on a black cloth. During the curtain call, the tribe reprises \"Let the Sun Shine In\" and brings audience members up on stage to dance.\n\nThe original Broadway production also included Melba Moore as Dionne, Ronnie Dyson, who sang \"Aquarius\" and \"What a Piece of Work is Man\", Paul Jabara and Diane Keaton.\n\n\"Hair\" opened on Broadway at the Biltmore Theatre on April 29, 1968. The production was directed by Tom O'Horgan and choreographed by Julie Arenal, with set design by Robin Wagner, costume design by Nancy Potts, and lighting design by Jules Fisher. The original Broadway \"tribe\" (i.e., cast) included authors Rado and Ragni, who played the lead roles of Claude and Berger, respectively, and Lynn Kellogg as Sheila, Lamont Washington as Hud, Sally Eaton and Shelley Plimpton reprising their off-Broadway roles as Jeanie and Crissy, Melba Moore as Dionne, Steve Curry as Woof, Ronnie Dyson (who sang \"Aquarius\" and \"What a Piece of Work is Man\"), Paul Jabara and Diane Keaton (both Moore and Keaton later played Sheila). Among the performers who appeared in \"Hair\" during its original Broadway run were Ben Vereen, Keith Carradine, Barry McGuire, Ted Lange, Meat Loaf, La La Brooks, Kenny Seymour (of Little Anthony and the Imperials), Joe Butler, Peppy Castro (of the Blues Magoos), Robin McNamara, Heather MacRae (daughter of Gordon MacRae and Sheila MacRae), Eddie Rambeau, Vicki Sue Robinson, Beverly Bremers, Dale Soules and Kim Milford.\n\nThe \"Hair\" team soon became embroiled in a lawsuit with the organizers of the Tony Awards. After assuring producer Michael Butler that commencing previews by April 3, 1968, would assure eligibility for consideration for the 1968 Tonys, the New York Theatre League ruled \"Hair\" ineligible, moving the cutoff date to March 19. The producers brought suit but were unable to force the League to reconsider. At the 1969 Tonys, \"Hair\" was nominated for Best Musical and Best Director but lost out to \"1776\" in both categories. The production ran for four years and 1,750 performances, closing on July 1, 1972.\n\nThe West Coast version played at the Aquarius Theater in Los Angeles beginning about six months after the Broadway opening and running for an unprecedented two years. The Los Angeles tribe included Rado, Ragni, Robert Rothman, Ben Vereen (who replaced Ragni), Willie Weatherly (who played Berger and Claude) Red Shepard, Ted Neeley (who replaced Rado), Meat Loaf, Gloria Jones, Táta Vega, Jobriath, Jennifer Warnes, and Dobie Gray.\n\nThere were soon nine simultaneous productions in U.S. cities, followed by national tours. Among the performers in these were Joe Mantegna, André DeShields, and Alaina Reed (Chicago), David Lasley, David Patrick Kelly, Meat Loaf, and Shaun Murphy (Detroit), Arnold McCuller (tour), Bob Bingham (Seattle) and Philip Michael Thomas (San Francisco). The creative team from Broadway worked on \"Hair\" in Los Angeles, Chicago and San Francisco, as the Broadway staging served as a rough template for these and other early regional productions. A notable addition to the team in Los Angeles was Tom Smothers, who served as co-producer. Regional casts consisted mostly of local actors, although a few Broadway cast members reprised their roles in other cities. O'Horgan or the authors sometimes took new ideas and improvisations from a regional show and brought them back to New York, such as when live chickens were tossed onto the stage in Los Angeles.\n\nIt was rare for so many productions to run simultaneously during an initial Broadway run. Producer Michael Butler, who had declared that \"Hair\" is \"the strongest anti-war statement ever written\", said the reason that he opened so many productions was to influence public opinion against the Vietnam War and end it as soon as possible.\n\n\"Hair\" opened at the Shaftesbury Theatre in London on September 27, 1968, led by the same creative team as the Broadway production. The opening night was delayed until the abolition of theatre censorship in England under the Theatres Act 1968 so that the show could include nudity and profanity. As with other early productions, the London show added a sprinkling of local allusions and other minor departures from the Broadway version.\n\nThe original London tribe included Sonja Kristina, Peter Straker, Paul Nicholas, Melba Moore, Annabel Leventon, Elaine Paige, Paul Korda, Marsha Hunt, Floella Benjamin, Alex Harvey, Oliver Tobias, Richard O'Brien and Tim Curry. This was Curry's first full-time theatrical acting role, where he met future \"Rocky Horror Show\" collaborator O'Brien. \"Hair\"s engagement in London surpassed the Broadway production, running for 1,997 performances until its closure was forced by the roof of the theatre collapsing in July 1973.\n\nThe job of leading the foreign language productions of \"Hair\" was given to Bertrand Castelli, Butler's partner and executive producer of the Broadway show. Castelli was a writer/producer who traveled in Paris art circles and rubbed elbows with Pablo Picasso and Jean Cocteau. Butler described him as a \"crazy showman ... the guy with the business suit and beads\". Castelli decided to do the show in the local language of each country at a time when Broadway shows were always done in English. The translations followed the original script closely, and the Broadway stagings were used. Each script contained local references, such as street names and the names or depictions of local politicians and celebrities. Castelli produced companies in France, Germany, Mexico and other countries, sometimes also directing the productions. The first European production opened in Stockholm, Sweden, on September 20, 1968, with a cast including Ulf Brunnberg, , and , produced and directed by and choreographed by Julie Arenal, and ran for 134 performances until March 1969.\n\nA German production, directed by Castelli, opened a month later in Munich; the tribe included Donna Summer, Liz Mitchell and Donna Wyant. A successful Parisian production of \"Hair\" opened on June 1, 1969. The original Australian production premiered in Sydney on June 6, 1969, produced by Harry M. Miller and directed by Jim Sharman, who also designed the production. The tribe included Keith Glass and then Reg Livermore as Berger, John Waters as Claude and Sharon Redd as The Magician. Redd was one of six African-Americans brought to Australia to provide a racially integrated tribe. The production broke local box-office records and ran for two years, but because of some of the language in the show, the cast album was banned in Queensland and New Zealand. The production transferred to Melbourne in 1971 and then had a national tour. It marked the stage debut of Boston-born Australian vocalist Marcia Hines. In Mexico the production was banned by the government after one night in Acapulco. An 18-year-old Sônia Braga appeared in the 1969 Brazilian production.\n\nAnother notable production was in Belgrade, in the former Yugoslavia, in 1969. It was the first \"Hair\" to be produced in a communist country. The show, translated into Serbian, was directed by female producer-director Mira Trailović at the Atelje 212 theatre. It featured Dragan Nikolić, Branko Milićević, Seka Sablić and Dušan Prelević. Over four years, the production received 250 performances and was attended by president Tito. Local references in the script included barbs aimed at Mao Zedong as well as Albania, Yugoslavia's traditional rival.\n\nBy 1970, \"Hair\" was a huge financial success, and nineteen productions had been staged outside of North America. In addition to those named above, these included productions in Scandinavia, South America, Italy, Israel, Japan, Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Austria. According to \"Billboard\", the various productions of the show were raking in almost $1 million every ten days, and royalties were being collected for 300 different recordings of the show's songs, making it \"the most successful score in history as well as the most performed score ever written for the Broadway stage.\"\n\n\"Hair\" explores many of the themes of the hippie movement of the 1960s. Theatre writer Scott Miller described these as follows:\n\n[T]he youth of America, especially those on college campuses, started protesting all the things that they saw wrong with America: racism, environmental destruction, poverty, sexism and sexual repression, violence at home and the war in Vietnam, depersonalization from new technologies, and corruption in politics. ... Contrary to popular opinion, the hippies had great respect for America and believed that they were the true patriots, the only ones who genuinely wanted to save our country and make it the best it could be once again. ... [Long] hair was the hippies' flag – their ... symbol not only of rebellion but also of new possibilities, a symbol of the rejection of discrimination and restrictive gender roles (a philosophy celebrated in the song \"My Conviction\"). It symbolized equality between men and women. ... [T]he hippies' chosen clothing also made statements. Drab work clothes (jeans, work shirts, pea coats) were a rejection of materialism. Clothing from other cultures, particularly the Third World and native Americans, represented their awareness of the global community and their rejection of U.S. imperialism and selfishness. Simple cotton dresses and other natural fabrics were a rejection of synthetics, a return to natural things and simpler times. Some hippies wore old World War II or Civil War jackets as way of co-opting the symbols of war into their newfound philosophy of nonviolence.\n\nExtending the precedents set by \"Show Boat\" (1927) and \"Porgy and Bess\" (1935), \"Hair\" opened the Broadway musical to racial integration; fully one-third of the cast was African American. Except for satirically in skits, the roles for the black members of the tribe portrayed them as equals, breaking away from the traditional roles for blacks in entertainment as slaves or servants. An \"Ebony\" magazine article declared that the show was the biggest outlet for black actors in the history of the U.S. stage.\n\nSeveral songs and scenes from the show address racial issues. \"Colored Spade\", which introduces the character Hud, a militant black male, is a long list of racial slurs (\"jungle bunny ... little black sambo\") topped off with the declaration that Hud is the \"president of the United States of love\". At the end of his song, he tells the tribe that the \"boogie man\" will get them, as the tribe pretends to be frightened. \"Dead End\", sung by black tribe members, is a list of street signs that symbolize black frustration and alienation. One of the tribe's protest chants is \"What do we think is really great? To bomb, lynch and segregate!\" \"Black Boys/White Boys\" is an exuberant acknowledgement of interracial sexual attraction; the U.S. Supreme Court had struck down laws against the practice in 1967. Another of the tribe's protest chants is \"Black, white, yellow, red. Copulate in a king-sized bed.\"\n\n\"Abie Baby\" is part of the Act 2 \"trip\" sequence: four African witch doctors, who have just killed various American historical, cultural and fictional characters, sing the praises of Abraham Lincoln, portrayed by a black female tribe member, whom they decide not to kill. The first part of the song contains stereotypical language that black characters used in old movies, like \"I's finished ... pluckin' y'all's chickens\" and \"I's free now thanks to y'all, Master Lincoln\". The Lincoln character then recites a modernized version of the Gettysburg Address, while a white female tribe member polishes Lincoln's shoes with her blond hair.\n\nThe many references to Native Americans throughout the script are part of the anti-consumerism, naturalism focus of the hippie movement and of \"Hair\". The characters in the show are referred to as the \"tribe\", borrowing the term for Native American communities. The cast of each production chooses a tribal name: \"The practice is not just cosmetic ... the entire cast must work together, must like each other, and often within the show, must work as a single organism. All the sense of family, of belonging, of responsibility and loyalty inherent in the word 'tribe' has to be felt by the cast.\" To enhance this feeling, O'Horgan put the cast through sensitivity exercises based on trust, touching, listening and intensive examination that broke down barriers between the cast and crew and encouraged bonding. These exercises were based on techniques developed at the Esalen Institute and Polish Lab Theater. The idea of Claude, Berger and Sheila living together is another facet of the 1960s concept of \"tribe\".\n\nThe brief nude scene at the end of Act I was a subject of controversy and notoriety. Miller writes that \"nudity was a big part of the hippie culture, both as a rejection of the sexual repression of their parents and also as a statement about naturalism, spirituality, honesty, openness, and freedom. The naked body was beautiful, something to be celebrated and appreciated, not scorned and hidden. They saw their bodies and their sexuality as gifts, not as 'dirty' things.\"\n\n\"Hair\" glorifies sexual freedom in a variety of ways. In addition to acceptance of interracial attraction, mentioned above, the characters' lifestyle acts as a sexually and politically charged updating of \"La bohème\"; as Rado explained, \"The love element of the peace movement was palpable.\" In the song \"Sodomy\", Woof exhorts everyone to \"join the holy orgy Kama Sutra\". Toward the end of Act 2, the tribe members reveal their free love tendencies when they banter back and forth about who will sleep with whom that night. Woof has a crush on Mick Jagger, and a three-way embrace between Claude, Berger and Sheila turns into a Claude–Berger kiss.\n\nVarious illegal drugs are taken by the characters during the course of the show, most notably a hallucinogen during the trip sequence. The song \"Walking in Space\" begins the sequence, and the lyrics celebrate the experience declaring \"how dare they try to end this beauty ... in this dive we rediscover sensation ... our eyes are open, wide, wide, wide\". Similarly, in the song \"Donna\", Berger sings that \"I'm evolving through the drugs that you put down.\" At another point, Jeanie smokes marijuana and dismisses the critics of \"pot\". Generally, the tribe favors hallucinogenic or \"mind expanding\" drugs, such as LSD and marijuana, while disapproving of other drugs such as speed and depressants. For example, Jeanie, after revealing that she is pregnant by a \"speed freak\", says that \"methedrine is a bad scene\". The song \"Hashish\" provides a list of pharmaceuticals, both illegal and legal, including cocaine, alcohol, LSD, opium and Thorazine, which is used as an antipsychotic.\n\nThe theme of opposition to the war that pervades the show is unified by the plot thread that progresses through the book – Claude's moral dilemma over whether to burn his draft card. Pacifism is explored throughout the extended trip sequence in Act 2. The lyrics to \"Three-Five-Zero-Zero\", which is sung during that sequence, evoke the horrors of war (\"ripped open by metal explosion\"). The song is based on Allen Ginsberg's 1966 poem, \"Wichita Vortex Sutra\". In the poem, General Maxwell Taylor proudly reports to the press the number of enemy soldiers killed in one month, repeating it digit by digit, for effect: \"Three-Five-Zero-Zero.\" The song begins with images of death and dying and turns into a manic dance number, echoing Maxwell's glee at reporting the enemy casualties, as the tribe chants \"Take weapons up and begin to kill\". The song also includes the repeated phrase \"Prisoners in niggertown/ It's a dirty little war\".\n\n\"Don't Put It Down\" satirizes the unexamined patriotism of people who are literally \"crazy\" for the American flag. \"Be In (Hare Krishna)\" praises the peace movement and events like the San Francisco and Central Park Be-Ins. Throughout the show, the tribe chants popular protest slogans like \"What do we want? Peace!  – When do we want it? Now!\" and \"Do not enter the induction center\". The upbeat song, \"Let the Sun Shine In\", is a call to action, to reject the darkness of war and change the world for the better.\n\n\"Hair\" also aims its satire at the pollution caused by our civilization. Jeanie appears from a trap door in the stage wearing a gas mask and then sings the song \"Air\": \"Welcome, sulfur dioxide. Hello carbon monoxide. The air ... is everywhere\". She suggests that pollution will eventually kill her, \"vapor and fume at the stone of my tomb, breathing like a sullen perfume\". In a comic, pro-green vein, when Woof introduces himself, he explains that he \"grows things\" like \"beets, and corn ... and sweet peas\" and that he \"loves the flowers and the fuzz and the trees\".\n\nReligion, particularly Catholicism, appears both overtly and symbolically throughout the piece, and it is often made the brunt of a joke. Berger sings of looking for \"my Donna\", giving it the double meaning of the woman he's searching for and the Madonna. During \"Sodomy\", a hymn-like paean to all that is \"dirty\" about sex, the cast strikes evocative religious positions: the Pietà and Christ on the cross. Before the song, Woof recites a modified rosary. In Act II, when Berger gives imaginary pills to various famous figures, he offers \"a pill for the Pope\". In \"Going Down\", after being kicked out of school, Berger compares himself to Lucifer: \"Just like the angel that fell / Banished forever to hell / Today have I been expelled / From high school heaven.\" Claude becomes a classic Christ figure at various points in the script. In Act I, Claude enters, saying, \"I am the Son of God. I shall vanish and be forgotten,\" then gives benediction to the tribe and the audience. Claude suffers from indecision, and, in his Gethsemane at the end of Act I, he asks \"Where Do I Go?\". There are textual allusions to Claude being on a cross, and, in the end, he is chosen to give his life for the others. Berger has been seen as a John the Baptist figure, preparing the way for Claude.\n\nSongs like \"Good Morning, Starshine\" and \"Aquarius\" reflect the 1960s cultural interest in astrological and cosmic concepts. \"Aquarius\" was the result of Rado's research into his own astrological sign. The company's astrologer, Maria Crummere, was consulted about casting: Sheila was usually played by a Libra or Capricorn and Berger by a Leo, although Ragni, the original Berger, was a Virgo. Crummere was also consulted when deciding when the show would open on Broadway and in other cities. The 1971 Broadway \"Playbill\" reported that she chose April 29, 1968 for the Broadway premiere. \"The 29th was auspicious ... because the moon was high, indicating that people would attend in masses. The position of the 'history makers' (Pluto, Uranus, Jupiter) in the 10th house made the show unique, powerful and a money-maker. And the fact that Neptune was on the ascendancy foretold that \"Hair\" would develop a reputation involving sex.\"\n\nIn Mexico, where Crummere did not pick the opening date, the show was closed down by the government after one night. She was not pleased with the date of the Boston opening (where the producers were sued over the show's content) saying, \"Jupiter will be in opposition to naughty Saturn, and the show opens the very day of the sun's eclipse. Terrible.\" But there was no astrologically safe time in the near future.\n\n\"Hair\" makes many references to Shakespeare's plays, especially \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Hamlet\", and, at times, takes lyrical material directly from Shakespeare. For example, the lyrics to the song \"What a Piece of Work Is Man\" are from \"Hamlet\" (II: scene 2) and portions of \"Flesh Failures\" (\"the rest is silence\") are from Hamlet's final lines. In \"Flesh Failures/Let The Sun Shine In\", the lyrics \"Eyes, look your last!/ Arms, take your last embrace! And lips, O you/ The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss\" are from \"Romeo and Juliet\" (V: iii, 111–14). According to Miller, the \"Romeo\" suicide imagery makes the point that, with our complicity in war, we are killing ourselves.\n\nSymbolically, the running plot of Claude's indecision, especially his resistance to burning his draft card, which ultimately causes his demise, has been seen as a parallel to \"Hamlet\": \"the melancholy hippie\". The symbolism is carried into the last scene, where Claude appears as a ghostly spirit among his friends wearing an army uniform in an ironic echo of an earlier scene, where he says, \"I know what I want to be ... invisible\". According to Public Theater Artistic Director Oskar Eustis, \"Both [\"Hair\" and \"Hamlet\"] center on idealistic brilliant men as they struggle to find their place in a world marred by war, violence, and venal politics. They see both the luminous possibilities and the harshest realities of being human. In the end, unable to effectively combat the evil around them, they tragically succumb.\"\n\nOther literary references include the song \"Three-Five-Zero-Zero\", based on Ginsberg's poem \"Wichita Vortex Sutra\", and, in the psychedelic drug trip sequence, the portrayal of Scarlett O'Hara, from \"Gone with the Wind\", and activist African-American poet LeRoi Jones.\n\nIn his introduction to the published script of \"Viet Rock\", Richard Schechner says, \"performance, action, and event are the key terms of our theatre – and these terms are not literary.\" In the 1950s, Off-off Broadway theaters began experimenting with non-traditional theater roles, blurring the lines between playwright, director, and actor. The playwright's job was not just to put words on a page, but to create a theatrical experience based on a central idea. By 1967, theaters such as The Living Theatre, La MaMa E.T.C. and The Open Theatre were actively devising plays from improvisational scenes crafted in the rehearsal space, rather than following a traditional script.\n\nMegan Terry's \"Viet Rock\" was created using this improvisational process. Scenes in \"Viet Rock\" were connected in \"prelogical ways\": a scene could be built from a tangent from the scene before, it could be connected psychologically, or it could be in counterpoint to the previous scene. Actors were asked to switch roles in the middle of a show, and frequently in mid-scene. In her stage directions for a Senate hearing scene in \"Viet Rock\", Terry wrote, \"The actors should take turns being senators and witnesses; the transformations should be abrupt and total. When the actor is finished with one character he becomes another, or just an actor.\"\n\n\"Hair\" was designed in much the same way. Tom O'Horgan, the show's Broadway director, was intimately involved in the experimental theatre movement. In the transition to Broadway, O'Horgan and the writers rearranged scenes to increase the experimental aspects of the show. \"Hair\" asks its actors to assume several different characters throughout the course of the piece, and, as in Claude's psychedelic trip in Act 2, sometimes during the same scene. Both \"Hair\" and \"Viet Rock\" include rock music, borrowed heavily from mass media, and frequently break down the invisible \"fourth wall\" to interact with the audience. For example, in the opening number, the tribe mingles with audience members, and at the end of the show, the audience is invited on stage.\n\nIn the original Broadway production, the stage was completely open, with no curtain and the fly area and grid exposed to the audience. The proscenium arch was outlined with climb-ready scaffolding. Wagner's spare set was painted in shades of grey with street graffiti stenciled on the stage. The stage was raked, and a tower of abstract scaffolding upstage at the rear merged a Native American totem pole and a modern sculpture of a crucifix-shaped tree. This scaffolding was decorated with found objects that the cast had gathered from the streets of New York. These included a life-size papier-mâché bus driver, the head of Jesus, and a neon marquee of the Waverly movie theater in Greenwich Village. Potts' costumes were based on hippie street clothes, made more theatrical with enhanced color and texture. Some of these included mixed parts of military uniforms, bell bottom jeans with Ukrainian embroidery, tie dyed T-shirts and a red white and blue fringed coat. Early productions were primarily reproductions of this basic design.\n\n\"Much has been written about that scene ... most of it silly,\" wrote Gene Lees in \"High Fidelity\". The scene was inspired by two men who took off their clothes to antagonize the police during an informal anti-war gathering. During \"Where Do I Go?\", the stage was covered in a giant scrim, beneath which those choosing to participate in the scene removed their clothes. At the musical cue, \"they [stood] naked and motionless, their bodies bathed in Fisher's light projection of floral patterns. They chant[ed] of 'beads, flowers, freedom, and happiness. It lasted only twenty seconds. Indeed, the scene happened so quickly and was so dimly lit that it prompted Jack Benny, during the interval at a London preview, to quip, \"Did you happen to notice if any of them were Jewish?\" Nevertheless, the scene prompted threats of censorship and even violent reactions in some places. It also became fodder for pop-cultural jokes. Groucho Marx quipped, \"I was gonna go see it, and then I called up the theater. ... They said the tickets were $11 apiece. I told them I'd call back, went into my bathroom, took off all my clothes, and looked at myself in the full-length mirror. Then I called the theater and said, 'Forget it.\n\nThe nudity was optional for the performers. The French cast was \"the nudest\" of the foreign groups, while the London cast \"found nudity the hardest to achieve\". The Swedish cast was reluctant to disrobe, but in Copenhagen, the tribe thought the nudity too tame and decided to walk naked up and down the aisle during the show's prelude. In some early performances, the Germans played their scene behind a big sheet labeled \"CENSORED\". Original Broadway cast member Natalie Mosco said, \"I was dead set against the nude scene at first, but I remembered my acting teacher having said that part of acting is being private in public. So I did it.\" According to Melba Moore, \"It doesn't mean anything except what you want it to mean. We put so much value on clothing. . ... It's like so much else people get uptight about.\" Donna Summer, who was in the German production, said that \"it was not meant to be sexual. ... We stood naked to comment on the fact that society makes more of nudity than killing.\" Rado said that \"being naked in front of an audience, you're baring your soul. Not only the soul but the whole body was being exposed. It was very apt, very honest and almost necessary.\"\n\nAfter studying the music of the Bantu at Cape Town University, MacDermot incorporated African rhythms into the score of \"Hair\". He listened to \"what [the Bantu] called quaylas ... [which have a] very characteristic beat, very similar to rock. Much deeper though. ... \"Hair\" is very African – a lot of [the] rhythms, not the tunes so much.\" Quaylas stress beats on unexpected syllables, and this influence can be heard in songs like \"What a Piece of Work Is Man\" and \"Ain't Got No Grass\". MacDermot said, \"My idea was to make a total funk show. They said they wanted rock & roll – but to me that translated to 'funk.'\" That funk is evident throughout the score, notably in songs like \"Colored Spade\" and \"Walking in Space\".\n\nMacDermot has claimed that the songs \"can't all be the same. You've got to get different styles. ... I like to think they're all a little different.\" As such, the music in \"Hair\" runs the gamut of rock: from the rockabilly sensibilities of \"Don't Put it Down\" to the folk rock rhythms of \"Frank Mills\" and \"What a Piece of Work is Man\". \"Easy to Be Hard\" is pure rhythm and blues, and protest rock anthems abound: \"Ain't Got No\" and \"The Flesh Failures\". The acid rock of \"Walking in Space\" and \"Aquarius\" are balanced by the mainstream pop of \"Good Morning Starshine\". Scott Miller ties the music of \"Hair\" to the hippies' political themes: \"The hippies ... were determined to create art of the people and their chosen art form, rock/folk music was by its definition, populist. ... [T]he hippies' music was often very angry, its anger directed at those who would prostitute the Constitution, who would sell America out, who would betray what America stood for; in other words, directed at their parents and the government.\" Theatre historian John Kenrick explains the application of rock music to the medium of the stage:\n\nThe music did not resonate with everyone. Leonard Bernstein remarked \"the songs are just laundry lists\" and walked out of the production. Richard Rodgers could only hear the beat and called it \"one-third music\".\nJohn Fogerty said, \"\"Hair\" is such a watered down version of what is really going on that I can't get behind it at all.\" Gene Lees, writing for \"High Fidelity\", stated that John Lennon found it \"dull\", and he wrote, \"I do not know any musician who thinks it's good.\"\n\nThe score had many more songs than were typical of Broadway shows of the day. Most Broadway shows had about per act; \"Hair\"'s total is in the thirties. This list reflects the most common Broadway lineup.\n\n\nThe show was under almost perpetual re-write. Thirteen songs were added between the production at the Public Theater and Broadway, including \"I Believe in Love\". \"The Climax\" and \"Dead End\" were cut between the productions, and \"Exanaplanetooch\" and \"You Are Standing on My Bed\" were present in previews but cut before Broadway. The Shakespearean speech \"What a piece of work is a man\" was originally spoken by Claude and musicalized by MacDermot for Broadway, and \"Hashish\" was formed from an early speech of Berger's. Subsequent productions have included \"Hello There\", \"Dead End\", and \"Hippie Life\" – a song originally written for the film that Rado included in several productions in Europe in the 1990s. The 2009 Broadway revival included the ten-second \"Sheila Franklin\" and \"O Great God of Power\", two songs that were cut from the original production.\n\nThe first recording of \"Hair\" was made in 1967 featuring the off-Broadway cast. The original Broadway cast recording received a Grammy Award in 1969 for Best Score from an Original Cast Show Album and sold nearly 3 million copies in the U.S. by December 1969. It charted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200, the last Broadway cast album to do so (as of 2016). It stayed at No. 1 for 13 weeks in 1969. \"The New York Times\" noted in 2007 that \"The cast album of \"Hair\" was ... a must-have for the middle classes. Its exotic orange-and-green cover art imprinted itself instantly and indelibly on the psyche. ... [It] became a pop-rock classic that, like all good pop, has an appeal that transcends particular tastes for genre or period.\" The 1993 London revival cast album contains new music that has been incorporated into the standard rental version.\n\nRCA Victor also released \"DisinHAIRited\" (RCA Victor LSO-1163): an album of songs that had been written for the show, but saw varying amounts of stage time. Some of the songs were cut between the Public and Broadway, some had been left off the original cast album due to space, and a few were never performed onstage.\n\n\nSongs from \"Hair\" have been recorded by numerous artists, including Shirley Bassey, Barbra Streisand and Diana Ross. \"Good Morning Starshine\" was sung on a 1969 episode of \"Sesame Street\" by cast member Bob McGrath, and versions by artists such as Sarah Brightman, Petula Clark, and Strawberry Alarm Clock have been recorded. Artists as varied as Liza Minnelli and The Lemonheads have recorded \"Frank Mills\", and Andrea McArdle, Jennifer Warnes, and Sérgio Mendes have each contributed versions of \"Easy to Be Hard\". \"Hair\" also helped launch recording careers for performers Meat Loaf, Dobie Gray, Jennifer Warnes, Jobriath, Bert Sommer, Ronnie Dyson, Donna Summer and Melba Moore, among others.\n\nThe score of \"Hair\" saw chart successes, as well. The 5th Dimension released \"Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In\" in 1969, which won Record of the Year in 1970 and topped the charts for six weeks. The Cowsills' recording of the title song \"Hair\" climbed to on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. while Oliver's rendition of \"Good Morning Starshine\" reached . Three Dog Night's version of \"Easy to Be Hard\" went to . Nina Simone's 1968 medley of \"Ain't Got No / I Got Life\" reached the top 5 on the British charts. In 1970, ASCAP announced that \"Aquarius\" was played more frequently on U.S. radio and television than any other song that year.\n\nProductions in England, Germany, France, Sweden, Japan, Israel, the Netherlands, Australia and elsewhere released cast albums, and over 1,000 vocal and/or instrumental performances of individual songs from \"Hair\" have been recorded. Such broad attention was paid to the recordings of \"Hair\" that, after an unprecedented bidding war, ABC Records was willing to pay a record amount for MacDermot's next Broadway adaptation \"Two Gentlemen of Verona\". The 2009 revival recording, released on June 23, debuted at on \"Billboard\"'s \"Top Cast Album\" chart and at in the Top 200, qualifying it as the highest debuting album in Ghostlight Records history.\n\nReception to \"Hair\" upon its Broadway premiere was, with exceptions, overwhelmingly positive. Clive Barnes wrote in the \"New York Times\": \"What is so likable about \"Hair\" ... ? I think it is simply that it is so likable. So new, so fresh, and so unassuming, even in its pretensions.\" John J. O'Connor of \"The Wall Street Journal\" said the show was \"exuberantly defiant and the production explodes into every nook and cranny of the Biltmore Theater\". Richard Watts Jr. of the \"New York Post\" wrote that \"it has a surprising if perhaps unintentional charm, its high spirits are contagious, and its young zestfulness makes it difficult to resist.\"\n\nTelevision reviews were even more enthusiastic. Allan Jeffreys of ABC said the actors were \"the most talented hippies you'll ever see ... directed in a wonderfully wild fashion by Tom O'Horgan.\" Leonard Probst of NBC said \"Hair\" is the only new concept in musicals on Broadway in years and it's more fun than any other this season\". John Wingate of WOR TV praised MacDermot's \"dynamic score\" that \"blasts and soars\", and Len Harris of CBS said \"I've finally found the best musical of the Broadway season ... it's that sloppy, vulgar, terrific tribal love rock musical \"Hair\".\"\n\nA reviewer from \"Variety\", on the other hand, called the show \"loony\" and \"without a story, form, music, dancing, beauty or artistry. ... It's impossible to tell whether [the cast has] talent. Maybe talent is irrelevant in this new kind of show business.\" Reviews in the news weeklies were mixed; Jack Kroll in \"Newsweek\" wrote, \"There is no denying the sheer kinetic drive of this new \"Hair\" ... there is something hard, grabby, slightly corrupt about O'Horgan's virtuosity, like Busby Berkeley gone bitchy.\" But a reviewer from \"Time\" wrote that although the show \"thrums with vitality [it is] crippled by being a bookless musical and, like a boneless fish, it drifts when it should swim.\"\n\nReviews were mixed when \"Hair\" opened in London. Irving Wardle in \"The Times\" wrote, \"Its honesty and passion give it the quality of a true theatrical celebration – the joyous sound of a group of people telling the world exactly what they feel.\" In the \"Financial Times\", B. A. Young agreed that \"Hair\" was \"not only a wildly enjoyable evening, but a thoroughly moral one.\" However, in his final review before retiring after 48 years, 78-year-old W. A. Darlington of \"The Daily Telegraph\" wrote that he had \"tried hard\", but found the evening \"a complete bore – noisy, ugly and quite desperately funny\".\n\nAcknowledging the show's critics, Scott Miller wrote in 2001 that \"some people can't see past the appearance of chaos and randomness to the brilliant construction and sophisticated imagery underneath.\" Miller notes, \"Not only did many of the lyrics not rhyme, but many of the songs didn't really have endings, just a slowing down and stopping, so the audience didn't know when to applaud. ... The show rejected every convention of Broadway, of traditional theatre in general, and of the American musical in specific. And it was brilliant.\"\n\n\"Hair\" challenged many of the norms held by Western society in 1968. The name itself, inspired by the name of a Jim Dine painting depicting a comb and a few strands of hair, was a reaction to the restrictions of civilization and consumerism and a preference for naturalism. Rado remembers that long hair \"was a visible form of awareness in the consciousness expansion. The longer the hair got, the more expansive the mind was. Long hair was shocking, and it was a revolutionary act to grow long hair. It was kind of a flag, really.\"\n\nThe musical caused controversy when it was first staged. The Act I finale was the first time a Broadway show had seen totally naked actors and actresses, and the show was charged with the desecration of the American flag and the use of obscene language. These controversies, in addition to the anti–Vietnam War theme, attracted occasional threats and acts of violence during the show's early years and became the basis for legal actions both when the show opened in other cities and on tour. Two cases eventually reached the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nThe touring company of \"Hair\" met with resistance throughout the United States. In South Bend, Indiana, the Morris Civic Auditorium refused booking, and in Evansville, Indiana, the production was picketed by several church groups. In Indianapolis, Indiana, the producers had difficulty securing a theater, and city authorities suggested that the cast wear body stockings as a compromise to the city's ordinance prohibiting publicly displayed nudity. Productions were frequently confronted with the closure of theaters by the fire marshal, as in Gladewater, Texas. Chattanooga's 1972 refusal to allow the play to be shown at the city-owned Memorial Auditorium was later found by the U.S. Supreme Court to be an unlawful prior restraint.\n\nThe legal challenges against the Boston production were appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The Chief of the Licensing Bureau took exception to the portrayal of the American flag in the piece, saying, \"anyone who desecrates the flag should be whipped on Boston Common.\" Although the scene was removed before opening, the District Attorney's office began plans to stop the show, claiming that \"lewd and lascivious\" actions were taking place onstage. The \"Hair\" legal team obtained an injunction against criminal prosecution from the Superior Court, and the D.A. appealed to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. At the request of both parties, several of the justices viewed the production and handed down a ruling that \"each member of the cast [must] be clothed to a reasonable extent.\" The cast defiantly played the scene nude later that night, stating that the ruling was vague as to when it would take effect. The next day, April 10, 1970, the production closed, and movie houses, fearing the ruling on nudity, began excising scenes from films in their exhibition. After the Federal appellate bench reversed the Massachusetts court's ruling, the D.A. appealed the case to the U.S. Supreme Court. In a 4–4 decision, the Court upheld the lower court's decision, allowing \"Hair\" to re-open on May 22.\n\nIn April 1971, a bomb was thrown at the exterior of a theater in Cleveland, Ohio that had been housing a production, bouncing off the marquee and shattering windows in the building and in nearby storefronts. That same month, the families of cast member Jonathon Johnson and stage manager Rusty Carlson died in a fire in the Cleveland hotel where 33 members of the show's troupe had been staying. The Sydney, Australia production's opening night was interrupted by a bomb scare in June 1969.\n\nLocal reactions to the controversial material varied greatly. San Francisco's large hippie population considered the show an extension of the street activities there, often blurring the barrier between art and life by meditating with the cast and frequently finding themselves onstage during the show. An 18-year-old Princess Anne was seen dancing onstage in London, and in Washington DC, Henry Kissinger attended. In St. Paul, Minnesota, a protesting clergyman released 18 white mice into the lobby hoping to frighten the audience. Capt. Jim Lovell and Jack Swigert, after dubbing Apollo 13's lunar module \"Aquarius\" after the song, walked out of the production at the Biltmore in protest of perceived anti-Americanism and disrespect of the flag.\n\nAn Acapulco, Mexico production of \"Hair\", directed by Castelli, played in 1969 for one night. After the performance, the theater, located across the street from a popular local bordello, was padlocked by the government, which said the production was \"detrimental to the morals of youth.\" The cast was arrested soon after the performance and taken to Immigration, where they agreed to leave the country, but because of legal complications they were forced to go into hiding. They were expelled from Mexico days later.\n\n\"Hair\" effectively marked the end of stage censorship in the United Kingdom. London's stage censor, the Lord Chamberlain, originally refused to license the musical, and the opening was delayed until Parliament passed a bill stripping him of his licensing power. In Munich, authorities threatened to close the production if the nude scene remained; however, after a local \"Hair\" spokesman declared that his relatives had been marched nude into Auschwitz, the authorities relented. In Bergen, Norway, local citizens formed a human barricade to try to prevent the performance.\n\nThe Parisian production encountered little controversy, and the cast disrobed for the nude scene \"almost religiously\" according to Castelli, nudity being common on stage in Paris. Even in Paris there was nevertheless occasional opposition, however, such as when a member of the local Salvation Army used a portable loud speaker to exhort the audience to halt the presentation.\n\nA Broadway revival of \"Hair\" opened in 1977 for a run of 43 performances. It was produced by Butler, directed by O'Horgan and performed in the Biltmore Theater, where the original Broadway production had played. The cast included Ellen Foley, Annie Golden, Cleavant Derricks and Kristen Vigard. Newcomer Peter Gallagher left the ensemble during previews to take the role of Danny Zuko in a tour of \"Grease\". Reviews were generally negative, and critics accused the production of \"showing its gray\". Few major revivals of \"Hair\" followed until the early 1990s.\n\nA movie version of \"Hair\", with a screenplay by Michael Weller, was directed by Miloš Forman and released in 1979. Filmed primarily in New York City's Central Park and Washington Square Park, the cast includes Treat Williams, Beverly D'Angelo, John Savage, Foley and Golden. Several of the songs were deleted, and the film's storyline departs significantly from the musical. The character of Claude is rewritten as an innocent draftee from Oklahoma, newly arrived in New York to join the military, and Sheila is a high-society debutante who catches his eye. In perhaps the greatest diversion from the stage version, a mistake leads Berger to go to Vietnam in Claude's place, where he is killed.\n\nRado and Ragni were unhappy with the film, feeling that Forman portrayed the hippies as \"oddballs\" and \"some sort of aberration\" without any connection to the peace movement, failing to capture the essence of the original stage production. They stated: \"Any resemblance between the 1979 film and the original Biltmore version, other than \"some\" of the songs, the names of the characters, and a common title, eludes us.\" In their view, the screen version of \"Hair\" has not yet been produced.\n\nHowever, the film received generally favorable reviews. Writing in \"The New York Times\", Vincent Canby called it \"a rollicking musical memoir. ... Weller's inventions make this \"Hair\" seem much funnier than I remember the show's having been. They also provide time and space for the development of characters who, on the stage, had to express themselves almost entirely in song. ... [T]he entire cast is superb. ... Mostly ... the film is a delight.\"\n\nA 20th anniversary concert event was held in May 1988 at the United Nations General Assembly to benefit children with AIDS. The event was sponsored by First Lady Nancy Reagan with Barbara Walters giving the night's opening introduction. Rado, Ragni and MacDermot reunited to write nine new songs for the concert. The cast of 163 actors included former stars from various productions around the globe: Melba Moore, Ben Vereen, Treat Williams and Donna Summer, as well as guest performers Bea Arthur, Frank Stallone and Dr. Ruth Westheimer. Ticket prices ranged from $250 to $5,000 and the proceeds went to the United States Committee for UNICEF and the Creo Society's Fund for Children with AIDS.\n\nA 1985 production of \"Hair\" mounted in Montreal was reportedly the 70th professional production of the musical. In November 1988, Michael Butler produced \"Hair\" at Chicago's Vic Theater to celebrate the shows' 20th anniversary. The production was well received and ran until February 1989. From 1990 to 1991, Pink Lace Productions ran a U.S. national tour of \"Hair\" that included stops in South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee and Kentucky. After Ragni died in 1991, MacDermot and Rado continued to write new songs for revivals through the 1990s. \"Hair Sarajevo, AD 1992\" was staged during the Siege of Sarajevo as an appeal for peace. Rado directed a $1 million, 11 city national tour in 1994 that featured actor Luther Creek. With MacDermot returning to oversee the music, Rado's tour celebrated the show's 25th anniversary. A small 1990 \"bus and truck\" production of \"Hair\" toured Europe for over 3 years, and Rado directed various European productions from 1995 to 1999.\n\nA production opened in Australia in 1992 and a short-lived London revival starring John Barrowman and Paul Hipp opened at the Old Vic in London in 1993, directed by Michael Bogdanov. While the London production was faithful to the original, a member of the production staff said the reason it \"flopped\" was because the tribe consisted of \"Thatcher's children who didn't really get it\". Other productions were mounted around the world, including South Africa, where the show had been banned until the eradication of Apartheid. In 1996, Butler brought a month-long production to Chicago, employing the Pacific Musical Theater, a professional troupe in residence at California State University, Fullerton. Butler ran the show concurrently with the 1996 Democratic National Convention, echoing the last time the DNC was in Chicago: 1968. A 30th Anniversary Off-Off Broadway production was staged at Third Eye Repertory. It was directed by Shawn Rozsa.\n\nIn 2001, the Reprise! theatre company in Los Angeles performed \"Hair\" at the Wadsworth Theatre, starring Steven Weber as Berger, Sam Harris as Claude and Jennifer Leigh Warren as Sheila. That same year, \"Encores! Great American Musicals in Concert\" ended its 2001 City Center season with a production of \"Hair\" starring Luther Creek, Idina Menzel and Tom Plotkin, and featuring \"Hair\" composer Galt MacDermot on stage playing the keyboards. An Actors' Fund benefit of the show was performed for one night at the New Amsterdam Theater in New York City in 2004. The Tribe included Shoshana Bean, Raúl Esparza, Jim J. Bullock, Liz Callaway, Gavin Creel, Eden Espinosa, Harvey Fierstein, Ana Gasteyer, Annie Golden, Jennifer Hudson, Julia Murney, Jai Rodriguez, RuPaul, Michael McKean, Laura Benanti and Adam Pascal.\n\nIn 2005, a London production opened at the Gate Theatre, directed by Daniel Kramer. James Rado approved an updating of the musical's script to place it in the context of the Iraq War instead of the Vietnam War. Kramer's modernized interpretation included \"Aquarius\" sung over a megaphone in Times Square, and nudity that called to mind images from Abu Ghraib. In March 2006, Rado collaborated with director Robert Prior for a CanStage production of \"Hair\" in Toronto, and a revival produced by Pieter Toerien toured South Africa in 2007. Directed by Paul Warwick Griffin, with choreography by Timothy Le Roux, the show ran at the Montecasino Theatre in Johannesburg and at Theatre on the Bay in Cape Town. A two-week run played at the Teatro Tapia in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, in March 2010, directed by Yinoelle Colón.\n\nMichael Butler produced \"Hair\" at the MET Theatre in Los Angeles from September 14 through December 30, 2007. The show was directed and choreographed by Bo Crowell, with musical direction from Christian Nesmith (son of Michael Nesmith). Butler's production of \"Hair\" won the LA Weekly Theater Award for Musical of the Year.\n\nFor three nights in September 2007, Joe's Pub and the Public Theater presented a 40th anniversary production of \"Hair\" at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. This concert version, directed by Diane Paulus, featured Jonathan Groff as Claude and Galt MacDermot on stage on the keyboards. The cast also included Karen Olivo as Sheila and Will Swenson as Berger. Actors from the original Broadway production joined the cast on stage during the encore of \"Let the Sun Shine In.\" Demand for the show was overwhelming, as long lines and overnight waits for tickets far exceeded that for other Delacorte productions such as \"Mother Courage and Her Children\" starring Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline.\n\nNine months later, The Public Theater presented a fully staged production of \"Hair\" at the Delacorte in a limited run from July 22, 2008, to September 14, 2008. Paulus again directed, with choreography by Karole Armitage. Groff and Swenson returned as Claude and Berger, together with others from the concert cast. Caren Lyn Manuel played Sheila, and Christopher J. Hanke replaced Groff as Claude on August 17. Reviews were generally positive, with Ben Brantley of \"The New York Times\" writing that \"this production establishes the show as more than a vivacious period piece. \"Hair,\" it seems, has deeper roots than anyone remembered\". \"Time\" magazine wrote: \"\"Hair\" ... has been reinvigorated and reclaimed as one of the great milestones in musical-theatre history. ... Today \"Hair\" seems, if anything, more daring than ever.\"\n\nThe Public Theater production transferred to Broadway at the Al Hirschfeld Theatre, beginning previews on March 6, 2009, with an official opening on March 31, 2009. Paulus and Armitage again directed and choreographed, and most of the cast returned from the production in the park. A pre-performance ticket lottery was held nightly for $25 box-seat tickets. The opening cast included Gavin Creel as Claude, Will Swenson as Berger, Caissie Levy as Sheila, Megan Lawrence as Mother and Sasha Allen as Dionne. Designers included Scott Pask (sets), Michael McDonald (costumes) and Kevin Adams (lighting).\n\nCritical response was almost uniformly positive. The \"New York Daily News\" headline proclaimed \"Hair\" Revival's High Fun\". The review praised the daring direction, \"colorfully kinetic\" choreography and technical accomplishments of the show, especially the lighting, commening that \"as a smile-inducing celebration of life and freedom, [\"Hair\" is] highly communicable\"; but warning: \"If you're seated on the aisle, count on [the cast] to be in your face or your lap or ... braiding your tresses.\" The \"New York Post\" wrote that the production \"has emerged triumphant. ... These days, the nation is fixated less on war and more on the economy. As a result, the scenes that resonate most are the ones in which the kids exultantly reject the rat race.\" \"Variety\" enthused, \"Director Diane Paulus and her prodigiously talented cast connect with the material in ways that cut right to the 1967 rock musical's heart, generating tremendous energy that radiates to the rafters. ... What could have been mere nostalgia instead becomes a full-immersion happening. ... If this explosive production doesn't stir something in you, it may be time to check your pulse.\" \"The Boston Globe\" dissented, saying that the production \"felt canned\" and \"overblown\" and that the revival \"feels unbearably naive and unforgivably glib\". Ben Brantley, writing for \"The New York Times\", reflected the majority, however, delivering a glowing review:\n\nThe Public Theater struggled to raise the $5.5 million budgeted for the Broadway transfer, because of the severity of the economic recession in late 2008, but it reached its goal by adding new producing partners. Director Diane Paulus helped keep costs low by using an inexpensive set. The show grossed a healthy $822,889 in its second week. On April 30, 2009, on the Late Show with David Letterman, the cast recreated a performance on the same stage at the Ed Sullivan Theater by the original tribe. The production won the Tony Award for Best Revival of a Musical, the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Revival of a Musical and the Drama League Award for Distinguished Revival of a Musical. By August 2009, the revival had recouped its entire $5,760,000 investment, becoming one of the fastest-recouping musicals in Broadway history. Its cast album was nominated for the 2010 Grammy Award for Best Musical Show Album.\n\nWhen the Broadway cast transferred to London for the 2010 West-End revival, a mostly new tribe took over on Broadway on March 9, 2010, including former \"American Idol\" finalists Ace Young as Berger and Diana DeGarmo as Sheila. Kyle Riabko assumed the role of Claude, Annaleigh Ashford played Jeanie, and Vanessa Ray was Chrissie. Rachel Bay Jones later played Mother and other roles. Sales decreased after the original cast transferred to London, and the revival closed on June 27, 2010, after 29 previews and 519 regular performances.\n\nA U.S. National Tour of the production began on October 21, 2010. Principals included Steel Burkhardt as Berger, Paris Remillard as Claude and Caren Lyn Tackett as Sheila. The tour received mostly positive reviews. The show returned to Broadway for an engagement at the St. James Theatre from July 5 through September 10, 2011. After that stop, the tour resumed. The tour ended on January 29, 2012.\n\nThe 2009 Broadway production was duplicated at the Gielgud Theatre in London's West End. Previews began on April 1, 2010, with an official opening on April 14. The producers were the Public Theater, together with Cameron Mackintosh and Broadway Across America. Nearly all of the New York cast relocated to London, but Luther Creek played Woof. The London revival closed on September 4, 2010.\n\nThe production received mostly enthusiastic reviews. Michael Billington of \"The Guardian\" described it as \"a vibrant, joyous piece of living theatre\", writing, \"it celebrates a period when the joy of life was pitted against the forces of intolerance and the death-dealing might of the military–industrial complex. As Shakespeare once said: 'There's sap in't yet.'\" Charles Spencer in \"The Daily Telegraph\" agreed: \"This is a timely and irresistibly vital revival of the greatest of all rock musicals. ... The verve and energy of the company ... is irresistible.\" Michael Coveney of \"The Independent\" wrote that \"Hair\" is \"one of the great musicals of all time, and a phenomenon that, I'm relieved to discover, stands up as a period piece\". In \"The Times\", Benedict Nightingale commented that \"it's exhilarating, as well as oddly poignant, when a multihued cast dressed in everything from billowing kaftans to Ruritanian army jackets race downstage while delivering that tuneful salute to an age of Aquarius that still refuses to dawn.\" Quentin Letts was a dissenting voice in the \"Daily Mail\". Though praising the performances and the production, he wrote: \"by the end the fraudulence of the gaiety becomes sickening. There is a lack of truthfulness in \"Hair\" which may not have been apparent when it was first performed in New York City in 1967 but which, today, is unavoidable.\"\n\nIn August 2014, the 2009 Broadway version returned for a three-night engagement at the Hollywood Bowl. Directed by Adam Shankman, the cast included Kristen Bell as Sheila, Hunter Parrish as Claude, Benjamin Walker as Berger, Amber Riley as Dionne, Jenna Ushkowitz as Jeanie, Sarah Hyland as Crissy, Mario as Hud, and Beverly D'Angelo and Kevin Chamberlin as Claude's parents.\n\nNBC plans to present a live television performance of \"Hair\" in May 2019, continuing its ongoing series of such productions.\n\n\"Hair\" has been performed in most of the countries of the world. After the Berlin Wall fell, the show traveled for the first time to Poland, Lebanon, the Czech Republic and Sarajevo (featured on ABC's Nightline with Ted Koppel, when Phil Alden Robinson visited that city in 1996 and discovered a production of \"Hair\" there in the midst of the war). In 1999, Michael Butler and director Bo Crowell helped produce \"Hair\" in Russia at the Stas Namin Theatre located in Moscow's Gorky Park. The Moscow production caused a similar reaction as the original did 30 years earlier because Russian soldiers were fighting in Chechnya at the time.\n\nRado wrote in 2003 that the only places where the show had not been performed were \"China, India, Vietnam, the Arctic and Antarctic continents as well as most African countries.\" Since then, an Indian production has been mounted.\n\n\"The New York Times\" noted, in 2007, that \"\"Hair\" was one of the last Broadway musicals to saturate the culture as shows from the golden age once regularly did.\" Songs from the show continue to be recorded by major artists. In the 1990s, Evan Dando's group The Lemonheads recorded \"Frank Mills\" for their 1992 album \"It's a Shame About Ray\", and Run DMC sampled \"Where Do I Go\" for their 1993 single \"Down With the King\" which went to on the \"Billboard\" rap charts and reached the top 25 in the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. In 2004 \"Aquarius\", from the 1979 film version, was honored at number 33 on AFI's 100 Years ... 100 Songs.\nSongs from the musical have been featured in films and television episodes. For example, in the 2005 film \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\", the character Willy Wonka welcomed the children with lyrics from \"Good Morning Starshine\". \"Aquarius\" was performed in the final episode of \"Laverne and Shirley\" in 1983, where the character Carmine moves to New York City to become an actor, and auditions for \"Hair\". \"Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In\" was also performed in the final scene in the film \"The 40-Year-Old Virgin\", and Three Dog Night's recording of \"Easy to Be Hard\" was featured in the first part of David Fincher's film \"Zodiac\". On the \"Simpsons\" episode \"The Springfield Files\", the townspeople, Leonard Nimoy, Chewbacca, Dana Scully and Fox Mulder all sing \"Good Morning Starshine.\" The episode \"Hairography\" of the show \"Glee\" includes a much-criticized mash-up of the songs \"Hair\" and \"Crazy in Love\" by Beyoncé. In addition, \"Head of the Class\" featured a two-part episode in 1990 where the head of the English department is determined to disrupt the school's performance of \"Hair\". The continued popularity of \"Hair\" is seen in its number ten ranking in a 2006 BBC Radio 2 listener poll of the \"[United Kingdom]'s Number One Essential Musicals.\"\n\nBecause of the universality of its pacifist theme, \"Hair\" continues to be a popular choice for high-school and university productions. Amateur productions of \"Hair\" are also popular worldwide. In 2002, Peter Jennings featured a Boulder, Colorado, high school production of \"Hair\" for his ABC documentary series \"In Search of America\". A September 2006 community theater production at the 2,000-seat Count Basie Theater in Red Bank, New Jersey, was praised by original producer Michael Butler, who said it was \"one of the best \"Hair\"s I have seen in a long time.\" Another example of a recent large-scale amateur production is the Mountain Play production at the 4,000-seat Cushing Memorial Amphitheatre in Mount Tamalpais State Park in Mill Valley, California, in the spring of 2007.\n\n\"Hair\" was Broadway's first concept musical, a form that dominated the musical theatre of the seventies, including shows like \"Company\", \"Follies\", \"Pacific Overtures\" and \"A Chorus Line\". While the development of the concept musical was an unexpected consequence of \"Hair\"'s tenure on Broadway, the expected rock music revolution on Broadway turned out to be less than complete.\n\nMacDermot followed \"Hair\" with three successive rock scores: \"Two Gentlemen of Verona\" (1971); \"Dude\" (1972), a second collaboration with Ragni; and \"Via Galactica\" (1972). While \"Two Gentlemen of Verona\" found receptive audiences and a Tony for Best Musical, \"Dude\" failed after just sixteen performances, and \"Via Galactica\" flopped after a month. According to Horn, these and other such \"failures may have been the result of producers simply relying on the label 'rock musical' to attract audiences without regard to the quality of the material presented.\" \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" (1970) and \"Godspell\" (1971) were two religiously themed successes of the genre. \"Grease\" (1971) reverted to the rock sounds of the 1950s, and black-themed musicals like \"The Wiz\" (1975) were heavily influenced by gospel, R&B and soul music. By the late 1970s, the genre had played itself out. Except for a few outposts of rock, like \"Dreamgirls\" (1981) and \"Little Shop of Horrors\" (1982), audience tastes in the 1980s turned to megamusicals with pop scores, like \"Les Misérables\" (1985) and \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1986). Some later rock musicals, such as \"Rent\" (1996) and \"Spring Awakening\" (2006), as well as jukebox musicals featuring rock music, like \"We Will Rock You\" (2002) and \"Rock of Ages\" (2009), have found success. But the rock musical did not quickly come to dominate the musical theatre stage after \"Hair\". Critic Clive Barnes commented, \"There really weren't any rock musicals. No major rock musician ever did a rock score for Broadway. ... You might think of the musical \"Tommy\", but it was never conceived as a Broadway show. ... And one can see why. There's so much more money in records and rock concerts. I mean, why bother going through the pain of a musical which may close in Philadelphia?\"\n\nOn the other hand, \"Hair\" had a profound effect not only on what was acceptable on Broadway, but as part of the very social movements that it celebrated. For example, in 1970, Butler, Castelli and the various \"Hair\" casts contributed to fundraising for the World Youth Assembly, a United Nations–sponsored organization formed in connection with the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the United Nations. The Assembly enabled 750 young representatives from around the world to meet in New York in July 1970 to discuss social issues. For about a week, cast members worldwide collected donations at every show for the fund. \"Hair\" raised around $250,000 and ended up being the principal financier of the Assembly. Tribe members and \"Hair\" crews also contributed a day's pay, and Butler contributed a day's profits from these productions. Moreover, as Ellen Stewart, La MaMa's founder, noted:\n\n\"Hair\" came with blue jeans, comfortable clothing, colors, beautiful colors, sounds, movement. ... And you can go to AT&T and see a secretary today, and she's got on blue jeans. ... You can go anywhere you want, and what \"Hair\" did, it is still doing \"twenty years later\". ... A kind of emancipation, a spiritual emancipation that came from [O'Horgan's] staging. ... \"Hair\" until this date has influenced every single thing that you see on Broadway, off-Broadway, off-off-Broadway, anywhere in the world, you will see elements of the experimental techniques that \"Hair\" brought not just to Broadway, but to the entire world.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "573937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573937", "title": "History of feminism", "text": "History of feminism\n\nThe history of feminism comprises the narratives (chronological or thematic) of the movements and ideologies which have aimed at equal rights for women. While feminists around the world have differed in causes, goals, and intentions depending on time, culture, and country, most Western feminist historians assert that all movements that work to obtain women's rights should be considered feminist movements, even when they did not (or do not) apply the term to themselves. Some other historians limit the term \"feminist\" to the modern feminist movement and its progeny, and use the label \"protofeminist\" to describe earlier movements.\n\nModern Western feminist history is conventionally split into three time periods, or \"waves\", each with slightly different aims based on prior progress:\n\n\nAlthough the \"waves\" construct has been commonly used to describe the history of feminism, the concept has also been criticized for ignoring and erasing the history between the \"waves\", by choosing to focus solely on a few famous figures and on popular events.\n\nPeople and activists who discuss or advance women's equality prior to the existence of the feminist movement are sometimes labeled as \"protofeminist\". Some scholars criticize this term because they believe it diminishes the importance of earlier contributions or that feminism does not have a single, linear history as implied by terms such as \"protofeminist\" or \"postfeminist\".\n\nAround 24 centuries ago, Plato, according to Elaine Hoffman Baruch, \"[argued] for the total political and sexual equality of women, advocating that they be members of his highest class, ... those who rule and fight\".\n\nItalian-French writer Christine de Pizan (1364 – c. 1430), the author of \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" and \"Epître au Dieu d'Amour\" (\"Epistle to the God of Love\") is cited by Simone de Beauvoir as the first woman to denounce misogyny and write about the relation of the sexes. Other early feminist writers include Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa and Modesta di Pozzo di Forzi, who worked in the 16th century, and the 17th-century writers Hannah Woolley in England, Juana Inés de la Cruz in Mexico, Marie Le Jars de Gournay, Anne Bradstreet, and François Poullain de la Barre.\n\nOne of the most important 17th-century feminist writers in the English language was Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Her knowledge was recognized by some, such as proto-feminist Bathsua Makin, who wrote that \"The present Dutchess of New-Castle, by her own Genius, rather than any timely Instruction, over-tops many grave Grown-Men,\" and considered her a prime example of what women could become through education.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was characterized by secular intellectual reasoning and a flowering of philosophical writing. Many Enlightenment philosophers defended the rights of women, including Jeremy Bentham (1781), Marquis de Condorcet (1790), and Mary Wollstonecraft (1792). Other important writers of the time that expressed feminist views included Abigail Adams, Catharine Macaulay, and Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht.\n\nThe English utilitarian and classical liberal philosopher Jeremy Bentham said that it was the placing of women in a legally inferior position that made him choose the career of a reformist at the age of eleven. Bentham spoke for complete equality between sexes including the rights to vote and to participate in government. He opposed the asymmetrical sexual moral standards between men and women.\n\nIn his \"Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\" (1781), Bentham strongly condemned many countries' common practice to deny women's rights due to allegedly inferior minds. Bentham gave many examples of able female regents.\n\nNicolas de Condorcet was a mathematician, classical liberal politician, leading French Revolutionary, republican, and Voltairean anti-clericalist. He was also a fierce defender of human rights, including the equality of women and the abolition of slavery, unusual for the 1780s. He advocated for women's suffrage in the new government in 1790 with \"De l'admission des femmes au droit de cité\" (\"For the Admission to the Rights of Citizenship For Women\") and an article for \"Journal de la Société de 1789\".\n\nFollowing de Condorcet's repeated, yet failed, appeals to the National Assembly in 1789 and 1790, Olympe de Gouges (in association with the Society of the Friends of Truth) authored and published the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\" in 1791. This was another plea for the French Revolutionary government to recognize the natural and political rights of women. De Gouges wrote the \"Declaration\" in the prose of the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen\", almost mimicking the failure of men to include more than a half of the French population in \"egalité\". Even though,the \"Declaration\" did not immediately accomplish its goals, it did set a precedent for a manner in which feminists could satirize their governments for their failures in equality, seen in documents such as \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" and \"A Declaration of Sentiments\".\n\nPerhaps the most cited feminist writer of the time was Mary Wollstonecraft, often characterized as the first feminist philosopher. \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792) is one of the first works that can unambiguously be called feminist, although by modern standards her comparison of women to the nobility, the elite of society (coddled, fragile, and in danger of intellectual and moral sloth) may at first seem dated as a feminist argument. Wollstonecraft identified the education and upbringing of women as creating their limited expectations based on a self-image dictated by the typically male perspective. Despite her perceived inconsistencies (Miriam Brody referred to the \"Two Wollstonecrafts\") reflective of problems that had no easy answers, this book remains a foundation stone of feminist thought.\n\nWollstonecraft believed that both genders contributed to inequality. She took women's considerable power over men for granted, and determined that both would require education to ensure the necessary changes in social attitudes. Given her humble origins and scant education, her personal achievements speak to her own determination. Wollstonecraft attracted the mockery of Samuel Johnson, who described her and her ilk as \"Amazons of the pen\". Based on his relationship with Hester Thrale, he complained of women's encroachment onto a male territory of writing, and not their intelligence or education. For many commentators, Wollstonecraft represents the first codification of equality feminism, or a refusal of the feminine role in society.\n\n19th-century feminists reacted to cultural inequities including the pernicious, widespread acceptance of the Victorian image of women's \"proper\" role and \"sphere.\" The Victorian ideal created a dichotomy of \"separate spheres\" for men and women that was very clearly defined in theory, though not always in reality. In this ideology, men were to occupy the public sphere (the space of wage labor and politics) and women the private sphere (the space of home and children.) This \"feminine ideal,\" also called \"The Cult of Domesticity,\" was typified in Victorian conduct books such as \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" and Sarah Stickney Ellis's books. \"The Angel in the House\" (1854) and \"El ángel del hogar\", bestsellers by Coventry Patmore and Maria del Pilar Sinués de Marco, came to symbolize the Victorian feminine ideal. Queen Victoria herself disparaged the concept of feminism, which she described in private letters as the \"mad, wicked folly of 'Woman's Rights'\"\".\n\nAs Jane Austen addressed women's restricted lives in the early part of the century, Charlotte Brontë, Anne Brontë, Elizabeth Gaskell, and George Eliot depicted women's misery and frustration. In her autobiographical novel \"\" (1854), American journalist Fanny Fern describes her own struggle to support her children as a newspaper columnist after her husband's untimely death. Louisa May Alcott penned a strongly feminist novel, \"A Long Fatal Love Chase\" (1866), about a young woman's attempts to flee her bigamist husband and become independent.\n\nMale authors also recognized injustices against women. The novels of George Meredith, George Gissing, and Thomas Hardy, and the plays of Henrik Ibsen outlined the contemporary plight of women. Meredith's \"Diana of the Crossways\" (1885) is an account of Caroline Norton's life. One critic later called Ibsen's plays \"feministic propaganda\".\n\nAt the outset of the 19th century, the dissenting feminist voices had little to no social influence. There was little sign of change in the political or social order, nor any evidence of a recognizable women's movement. Collective concerns began to coalesce by the end of the century, paralleling the emergence of a stiffer social model and code of conduct that Marion Reid described as confining and repressive for women. While the increased emphasis on feminine virtue partly stirred the call for a woman's movement, the tensions that this role caused for women plagued many early-19th-century feminists with doubt and worry, and fueled opposing views.\n\nIn Scotland, Reid published her influential \"A Plea for Woman\" in 1843, which proposed a transatlantic Western agenda for women's rights, including voting rights for women.\n\nCaroline Norton advocated for changes in British law. She discovered a lack of legal rights for women upon entering an abusive marriage. The publicity generated from her appeal to Queen Victoria and related activism helped change English laws to recognize and accommodate married women and child custody issues.\n\nWhile many women including Norton were wary of organized movements, their actions and words often motivated and inspired such movements. Among these was Florence Nightingale, whose conviction that women had all the potential of men but none of the opportunities impelled her storied nursing career. At the time, her feminine virtues were emphasized over her ingenuity, an example of the bias against acknowledging female accomplishment in the mid-1800s.\n\nDue to varying ideologies, feminists were not always supportive of each other's efforts. Harriet Martineau and others dismissed Wollstonecraft's contributions as dangerous, and deplored Norton's candidness, but seized on the abolitionist campaign that Martineau had witnessed in the United States as one that should logically be applied to women. Her \"Society in America\" was pivotal: it caught the imagination of women who urged her to take up their cause.\nAnna Wheeler was influenced by Saint Simonian socialists while working in France. She advocated for suffrage and attracted the attention of Benjamin Disraeli, the Conservative leader, as a dangerous radical on a par with Jeremy Bentham. She would later inspire early socialist and feminist advocate William Thompson, who wrote the first work published in English to advocate full equality of rights for women, the 1825 \"Appeal of One Half of the Human Race\".\n\nFeminists of previous centuries charged women's exclusion from education as the central cause for their domestic relegation and denial of social advancement, and women's 19th-century education was no better. Frances Power Cobbe, among others, called for education reform, an issue that gained attention alongside marital and property rights, and domestic violence.\n\nFemale journalists like Martineau and Cobbe in Britain, and Margaret Fuller in America, were achieving journalistic employment, which placed them in a position to influence other women. Cobbe would refer to \"Woman's Rights\" not just in the abstract, but as an identifiable cause.\n\nBarbara Leigh Smith and her friends met regularly during the 1850s in London's Langham Place to discuss the united women's voice necessary for achieving reform. These \"Ladies of Langham Place\" included Bessie Rayner Parkes and Anna Jameson. They focused on education, employment, and marital law. One of their causes became the Married Women's Property Committee of 1855. They collected thousands of signatures for legislative reform petitions, some of which were successful. Smith had also attended the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention in America.\n\nSmith and Parkes, together and apart, wrote many articles on education and employment opportunities. In the same year as Norton, Smith summarized the legal framework for injustice in her 1854 \"A Brief Summary of the Laws of England concerning Women\". She was able to reach large numbers of women via her role in the \"English Women's Journal\". The response to this journal led to their creation of the Society for Promoting the Employment of Women (SPEW). Smith's Married Women's Property committee collected 26,000 signatures to change the law for all women, including those unmarried.\n\nHarriet Taylor published her \"Enfranchisement\" in 1851, and wrote about the inequities of family law. In 1853, she married John Stuart Mill, and provided him with much of the subject material for \"The Subjection of Women\".\n\nEmily Davies also encountered the Langham group, and with Elizabeth Garrett created SPEW branches outside London.\n\nThe interrelated barriers to education and employment formed the backbone of 19th-century feminist reform efforts, for instance, as described by Harriet Martineau in her 1859 \"Edinburgh Journal\" article, \"Female Industry\". These barriers did not change in conjunction with the economy. Martineau, however, remained a moderate, for practical reasons, and unlike Cobbe, did not support the emerging call for the vote.\n\nThe education reform efforts of women like Davies and the Langham group slowly made inroads. Queen's College (1848) and Bedford College (1849) in London began to offer some education to women from 1848. By 1862, Davies established a committee to persuade the universities to allow women to sit for the recently established Local Examinations, and achieved partial success in 1865. She published \"The Higher Education of Women\" a year later. Davies and Leigh Smith founded the first higher educational institution for women and enrolled five students. The school later became Girton College, Cambridge in 1869, Newnham College, Cambridge in 1871, and Lady Margaret Hall at Oxford in 1879. Bedford began to award degrees the previous year. Despite these measurable advances, few could take advantage of them and life for female students was still difficult.\n\nIn the 1883 Ilbert Bill controversy, a British India bill that proposed Indian judicial jurisdiction to try British criminals, Bengali women in support of the bill responded by claiming that they were more educated than the English women opposed to the bill, and noted that more Indian women had degrees than British women at the time.\n\nAs part of the continuing dialogue between British and American feminists, Elizabeth Blackwell, one of the first American women to graduate in medicine (1849), lectured in Britain with Langham support. She eventually took her degree in France. Garrett's very successful 1870 campaign to run for London School Board office is another example of a how a small band of very determined women were beginning to reach positions of influence at the local government level.\n\nCampaigns gave women opportunities to test their new political skills and to conjoin disparate social reform groups. Their successes include the campaign for the Married Women's Property Act (passed in 1882) and the campaign to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts of 1864, 1866, and 1869, which united women's groups and utilitarian liberals like John Stuart Mill.\n\nGenerally, women were outraged by the inherent inequity and misogyny of the legislation. For the first time, women in large numbers took up the rights of prostitutes. Prominent critics included Blackwell, Nightingale, Martineau, and Elizabeth Wolstenholme. Elizabeth Garrett, unlike her sister, Millicent, did not support the campaign, though she later admitted that the campaign had done well.\n\nJosephine Butler, already experienced in prostitution issues, a charismatic leader, and a seasoned campaigner, emerged as the natural leader of what became the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts in 1869. Her work demonstrated the potential power of an organized lobby group. The association successfully argued that the Acts not only demeaned prostitutes, but all women and men by promoting a blatant sexual double standard. Butler's activities resulted in the radicalization of many moderate women. The Acts were repealed in 1886.\n\nOn a smaller scale, Annie Besant campaigned for the rights of matchgirls (female factory workers) and against the appalling conditions under which they worked in London. Her work of publicizing the difficult conditions of the workers through interviews in bi-weekly periodicals like The Link became a method for raising public concern over social issues.\n\nFeminists did not recognize separate waves of feminism until the second wave was so named by journalist Martha Lear, according to Jennifer Baumgardner. Baumgardner reports criticism by professor Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz of the division into waves and the difficulty of categorizing some feminists into specific waves, argues that the main critics of a wave are likely to be members of the prior wave who remain vital, and that waves are coming faster. The \"waves debate\" has influenced how historians and other scholars have established the chronologies of women's political activism.\n\nThe 19th- and early 20th-century feminist activity in the English-speaking world that sought to win women's suffrage, female education rights, better working conditions, and abolition of gender double standards is known as first-wave feminism. The term \"first-wave\" was coined retrospectively when the term \"second-wave feminism\" was used to describe a newer feminist movement that fought social and cultural inequalities beyond basic political inequalities.\nIn the United States, feminist movement leaders campaigned for the national abolition of slavery and Temperance before championing women's rights. American first-wave feminism involved a wide range of women, some belonging to conservative Christian groups (such as Frances Willard and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union), others resembling the diversity and radicalism of much of second-wave feminism (such as Stanton, Anthony, Matilda Joslyn Gage, and the National Woman Suffrage Association, of which Stanton was president). First-wave feminism in the United States is considered to have ended with the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (1920), which granted white women the right to vote in the United States.\n\nActivism for the equality of women was not limited to the United States. In mid-nineteenth century Persia, Táhirih was active as a poet and religious reformer, and is recorded as proclaiming the equality of women at her execution. She inspired later generations of Iranian feminists. Louise Dittmar campaigned for women's rights, in Germany, in the 1840s. Although slightly later in time, Fusae Ichikawa was in the first wave of women's activists in her own country of Japan, campaigning for women's suffrage. Mary Lee was active in the suffrage movement in South Australia, the first Australian colony to grant women the vote in 1894. In New Zealand, Kate Sheppard and Mary Ann Müller worked to achieve the vote for women by 1893.\nIn the United States, the antislavery campaign of the 1830s served as both a cause ideologically compatible with feminism and a blueprint for later feminist political organizing. Attempts to exclude women only strengthened their convictions. Sarah and Angelina Grimké moved rapidly from the emancipation of slaves to the emancipation of women. The most influential feminist writer of the time was the colourful journalist Margaret Fuller, whose \"Woman in the Nineteenth Century\" was published in 1845. Her dispatches from Europe for the \"New York Tribune\" helped create to synchronize the women's rights movement.\n\nElizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott met in 1840 while en route to London where they were shunned as women by the male leadership of the first World's Anti-Slavery Convention. In 1848, Mott and Stanton held a woman's rights convention in Seneca Falls, New York, where a declaration of independence for women was drafted. Lucy Stone helped to organize the first National Women's Rights Convention in 1850, a much larger event at which Sojourner Truth, Abby Kelley Foster, and others spoke sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women's rights. In December 1851, Sojourner Truth contributed to the feminist movement when she spoke at the Women’s Convention in Akron, Ohio. She delivered her powerful “Ain’t I a Woman” speech in an effort to promote women’s rights by demonstrating their ability to accomplish tasks that have been traditionally associated with men. Barbara Leigh Smith met with Mott in 1858, strengthening the link between the transatlantic feminist movements.\n\nStanton and Matilda Joslyn Gage saw the Church as a major obstacle to women's rights, and welcomed the emerging literature on matriarchy. Both Gage and Stanton produced works on this topic, and collaborated on \"The Woman's Bible\". Stanton wrote \"The Matriarchate or Mother-Age\" and Gage wrote \"Woman, Church and State\", neatly inverting Johann Jakob Bachofen's thesis and adding a unique epistemological perspective, the critique of objectivity and the perception of the subjective.\n\nStanton once observed regarding assumptions of female inferiority, \"The worst feature of these assumptions is that women themselves believe them\". However this attempt to replace androcentric (male-centered) theological tradition with a gynocentric (female-centered) view made little headway in a women's movement dominated by religious elements; thus she and Gage were largely ignored by subsequent generations.\n\nBy 1913, Feminism (originally capitalized) was a household term in the United States. Major issues in the 1910s and 1920s included suffrage, women's partisan activism, economics and employment, sexualities and families, war and peace, and a Constitutional amendment for equality. Both equality and difference were seen as routes to women's empowerment. Organizations at the time included the National Woman's Party, suffrage advocacy groups such as the National American Woman Suffrage Association and the National League of Women Voters, career associations such as the American Association of University Women, the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, and the National Women's Trade Union League, war and peace groups such as the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom and the International Council of Women, alcohol-focused groups like the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and the Women's Organization for National Prohibition Reform, and race- and gender-centered organizations like the National Association of Colored Women. Leaders and theoreticians included Jane Addams, Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Alice Paul, Carrie Chapman Catt, Margaret Sanger, and Charlotte Perkins Gilman.\n\nThe women's right to vote, with its legislative representation, represented a paradigm shift where women would no longer be treated as second-class citizens without a voice. The women's suffrage campaign is the most deeply embedded campaign of the past 250 years.\n\nAt first, suffrage was treated as a lower priority. The French Revolution accelerated this, with the assertions of Condorcet and de Gouges, and the women who led the 1789 march on Versailles. In 1793, the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women was founded, and originally included suffrage on its agenda before it was suppressed at the end of the year. As a gesture, this showed that issue was now part of the European political agenda.\n\nGerman women were involved in the Vormärz, a prelude to the 1848 revolution. In Italy, Clara Maffei, Cristina Trivulzio Belgiojoso, and Ester Martini Currica were politically active in the events leading up to 1848. In Britain, interest in suffrage emerged from the writings of Wheeler and Thompson in the 1820s, and from Reid, Taylor, and Anne Knight in the 1840s. While New Zealand was the first sovereign state where women won the right to vote (1893), they did not win the right to stand in elections until later. The Australian State of South Australia was the first sovereign state in the world to officially grant full suffrage to women (1894).\n\nThe Langham Place ladies set up a suffrage committee at an 1866 meeting at Elizabeth Garrett's home, renamed the London Society for Women's Suffrage in 1867. Soon similar committees had spread across the country, raising petitions, and working closely with John Stuart Mill. When denied outlets by establishment periodicals, feminists started their own, such as Lydia Becker's \"Women's Suffrage Journal\" in 1870.\n\nOther publications included Richard Pankhurst's \"Englishwoman's Review\" (1866). Tactical disputes were the biggest problem, and the groups' memberships fluctuated. Women considered whether men (like Mill) should be involved. As it went, Mill withdrew as the movement became more aggressive with each disappointment. The political pressure ensured debate, but year after year the movement was defeated in Parliament.\n\nDespite this, the women accrued political experience, which translated into slow progress at the local government level. But after years of frustration, many women became increasingly radicalized. Some refused to pay taxes, and the Pankhurst family emerged as the dominant movement influence, having also founded the Women's Franchise League in 1889, which sought local election suffrage for women.\n\nThe Isle of Man, a UK dependency, was the first free standing jurisdiction to grant women the vote (1881), followed by the right to vote (but not to stand) in New Zealand in 1893, where Kate Sheppard had pioneered reform. Some Australian states had also granted women the vote. This included Victoria for a brief period (1863–5), South Australia (1894), and Western Australia (1899). Australian women received the vote at the Federal level in 1902, Finland in 1906, and Norway initially in 1907 (completed in 1913).\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, also known as the Edwardian era, there was a change in the way women dressed from the Victorian rigidity and complacency. Women, especially women who married a wealthy man, would often wear what we consider today, practical.\n\nBooks, articles, speeches, pictures, and papers from the period show a diverse range of themes other than political reform and suffrage discussed publicly. In the Netherlands, for instance, the main feminist issues were educational rights, rights to medical care, improved working conditions, peace, and dismantled gender double standards. Feminists identified as such with little fanfare.\n\nPankhursts formed the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) in 1903. As Emmline Pankhurst put it, they viewed votes for women no longer as \"a right, but as a desperate necessity\". At the state level, Australia and the United States had already granted suffrage to some women. American feminists such as Susan B. Anthony (1902) visited Britain. While WSPU was the best-known suffrage group, it was only one of many, such as the Women's Freedom League and the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) led by Millicent Garrett Fawcett. WSPU was largely a family affair, although externally financed. Christabel Pankhurst became the dominant figure and gathered friends such as Annie Kenney, Flora Drummond, Teresa Billington, Ethel Smyth, Grace Roe, and Norah Dacre Fox (later known as Norah Elam) around her. Veterans such as Elizabeth Garrett also joined.\n\nIn 1906, the \"Daily Mail\" first labeled these women \"suffragettes\" as a form of ridicule, but the term was embraced by the women to describe the more militant form of suffragism visible in public marches, distinctive green, purple, and white emblems, and the Artists' Suffrage League's dramatic graphics. The feminists learned to exploit photography and the media, and left a vivid visual record including images such as the 1914 photograph of Emmeline.\n\nThe protests slowly became more violent, and included heckling, banging on doors, smashing shop windows, and arson. Emily Davison, a WSPU member, unexpectedly ran onto the track during the 1913 Epsom Derby and died under the King's horse. These tactics produced mixed results of sympathy and alienation. As many protesters were imprisoned and went on hunger-strike, the British government was left with an embarrassing situation. From these political actions, the suffragists successfully created publicity around their institutional discrimination and sexism.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, feminist science fiction emerged as a subgenre of science fiction that deals with women's roles in society. Female writers of the utopian literature movement at the time of first-wave feminism often addressed sexism. Charlotte Perkins Gilman's \"Herland\" (1915) did so. \"Sultana's Dream\" (1905) by Bengali Muslim feminist Roquia Sakhawat Hussain depicts a gender-reversed purdah in a futuristic world.\n\nDuring the 1920s, writers such as Clare Winger Harris and Gertrude Barrows Bennett published science fiction stories written from female perspectives and occasionally dealt with gender- and sexuality-based topics while popular 1920s and 30s pulp science fiction exaggerated masculinity alongside sexist portrayals of women. By the 1960s, science fiction combined sensationalism with political and technological critiques of society. With the advent of feminism, women's roles were questioned in this \"subversive, mind expanding genre\".\n\nFeminist science fiction poses questions about social issues such as how society constructs gender roles, how reproduction defines gender, and how the political power of men and women are unequal. Some of the most notable feminist science fiction works have illustrated these themes using utopias to explore societies where gender differences or gender power imbalances do not exist, and dystopias to explore worlds where gender inequalities are escalated, asserting a need for feminist work to continue.\n\nWomen entered the labor market during the First World War in unprecedented numbers, often in new sectors, and discovered the value of their work. The war also left large numbers of women bereaved and with a net loss of household income. The scores of men killed and wounded shifted the demographic composition. War also split the feminist groups, with many women opposed to the war and others involved in the white feather campaign.\n\nFeminist scholars like Francoise Thebaud and Nancy F. Cott note a conservative reaction to World War I in some countries, citing a reinforcement of traditional imagery and literature that promotes motherhood. The appearance of these traits in wartime has been called the \"nationalization of women\".\n\nIn the years between the wars, feminists fought discrimination and establishment opposition. In Virginia Woolf's \"A Room of One's Own\", Woolf describes the extent of the backlash and her frustration. By now, the word \"feminism\" was in use, but with a negative connotation from mass media, which discouraged women from self-identifying as such. When Rebecca West, another prominent writer, had been attacked as \"a feminist\", Woolf defended her. West has been remembered for her comment \"I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat, or a prostitute.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, the nontraditional styles and attitudes of flappers were popular among American and British women.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Representation of the People Act 1918 gave near-universal suffrage to men, and suffrage to women over 30. The Representation of the People Act 1928 extended equal suffrage to both men and women. It also shifted the socioeconomic makeup of the electorate towards the working class, favoring the Labour Party, who were more sympathetic to women's issues. The following election and gave Labour the most seats in the house to date. The electoral reforms also allowed women to run for Parliament. Christabel Pankhurst narrowly failed to win a seat in 1918, and Constance Markievicz (Sinn Féin) was the first woman elected in Ireland in 1918, but as an Irish nationalist, refused to take her seat. In 1919 and 1920, both Lady Astor and Margaret Wintringham won seats for the Conservatives and Liberals respectively by succeeding their husband's seats. Labour swept to power in 1924. Astor's proposal to form a women's party in 1929 was unsuccessful. Women gained considerable electoral experience over the next few years as a series of minority governments ensured almost annual elections. Close affiliation with Labour also proved to be a problem for the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC), which had little support in the Conservative party. However, their persistence with Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin was rewarded with the passage of the Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928.\n\nEuropean women received the vote in Denmark and Iceland in 1915 (full in 1919), the Russian Republic in 1917, Austria, Germany and Canada in 1918, many countries including the Netherlands in 1919, Czechoslovakia (today Czech Republic and Slovakia) in 1920, and Turkey and South Africa in 1930. French women did not receive the vote until 1945. Liechtenstein was one of the last countries, in 1984.\n\nThe political change did not immediately change social circumstances. With the economic recession, women were the most vulnerable sector of the workforce. Some women who held jobs prior to the war were obliged to forfeit them to returning soldiers, and others were excessed. With limited franchise, the UK National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) pivoted into a new organization, the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC), which still advocated for equality in franchise, but extended its scope to examine equality in social and economic areas. Legislative reform was sought for discriminatory laws (e.g., family law and prostitution) and over the differences between \"equality\" and \"equity\", the accommodations that would allow women to overcome barriers to fulfillment (known in later years as the \"equality vs. difference conundrum\"). Eleanor Rathbone, who became a British Member of Parliament in 1929, succeeded Millicent Garrett as president of NUSEC in 1919. She expressed the critical need for consideration of \"difference\" in gender relationships as \"what women need to fulfill the potentialities of their own natures\". The 1924 Labour government's social reforms created a formal split, as a splinter group of strict egalitarians formed the Open Door Council in May 1926. This eventually became an international movement, and continued until 1965. Other important social legislation of this period included the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 (which opened professions to women), and the Matrimonial Causes Act 1923. In 1932, NUSEC separated advocacy from education, and continued the former activities as the National Council for Equal Citizenship and the latter as the Townswomen's Guild. The council continued until the end of the Second World War.\n\nLaws prevented feminists from discussing and addressing reproductive rights. Annie Besant was tried under the Obscene Publications Act 1857 in 1877 for publishing Charles Knowlton's \"Fruits of Philosophy\", a work on family planning. Knowlton had previously been convicted in the United States. She and her colleague Charles Bradlaugh were convicted but acquitted on appeal. The subsequent publicity resulted in a decline in the UK's birth rate. Besant later wrote \"The Law of Population\".\n\nIn America, Margaret Sanger was prosecuted for her book \"Family Limitation\" under the Comstock Act in 1914, and fled to Britain until it was safe to return. Sanger's work was prosecuted in Britain. She met Marie Stopes in Britain, who was never prosecuted but regularly denounced for her promotion of birth control. In 1917, Sanger started the \"Birth Control Review\". In 1926, Sanger gave a lecture on birth control to the women's auxiliary of the Ku Klux Klan in Silver Lake, New Jersey, which she referred to as a \"weird experience\". The establishment of the Abortion Law Reform Association in 1936 was even more controversial. The British penalty for abortion had been reduced from execution to life imprisonment by the Offences against the Person Act 1861, although some exceptions were allowed in the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929. Following Aleck Bourne's prosecution in 1938, the 1939 Birkett Committee made recommendations for reform that were set aside at the Second World War's outbreak, along with many other women's issues.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Aletta H. Jacobs, the first Dutch female doctor, and Wilhelmina Drucker led discussion and action for reproductive rights. Jacobs imported diaphragms from Germany and distributed them to poor women for free.\n\nIn most front line countries, women volunteered or were conscripted for various duties in support of the national war effort. In Britain, women were drafted and assigned to industrial jobs or to non-combat military service. The British services enrolled 460,000 women. The largest service, Auxiliary Territorial Service, had a maximum of 213,000 women enrolled, many of whom served in anti-aircraft gun combat roles. In many countries, including Germany and the Soviet Union, women volunteered or were conscripted. In Germany, women volunteered in the League of German Girls and assisted the Luftwaffe as anti-aircraft gunners, or as guerrilla fighters in Werwolf units behind Allied lines. In the Soviet Union, about 820,000 women served in the military as medics, radio operators, truck drivers, snipers, combat pilots, and junior commanding officers.\n\nMany American women retained their domestic chores and often added a paid job, especially one related to a war industry. Much more so than in the previous war, large numbers of women were hired for unskilled or semi-skilled jobs in munitions, and barriers against married women taking jobs were eased. The popular Rosie the Riveter icon became a symbol for a generation of American working women. In addition, some 300,000 women served in U.S. military uniform with organizations such as Women's Army Corps and WAVES. With many young men gone, sports organizers tried to set up professional women's teams, such as the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, which closed after the war. After the war, most munitions plants closed, and civilian plants replaced their temporary female workers with returning veterans, who had priority.\n\n\"Second-wave feminism\" identifies a period of feminist activity from the early 1960s through the late 1980s that saw cultural and political inequalities as inextricably linked. The movement encouraged women to understand aspects of their personal lives as deeply politicized and reflective of a sexist power structure. As first-wave feminists focused on absolute rights such as suffrage, second-wave feminists focused on other cultural equality issues, such as ending discrimination.\n\nIn 1963, Betty Friedan's exposé \"The Feminine Mystique\" became the voice for the discontent and disorientation women felt in being shunted into homemaking positions after their college graduations. In the book, Friedan explored the roots of the change in women's roles from essential workforce during World War II to homebound housewife and mother after the war, and assessed the forces that drove this change in perception of women's roles.\n\nOver the following decade, \"Women's Liberation\" became a common phrase and concept.\n\nThe expression \"Women's Liberation\" has been used to refer to feminism throughout history. \"Liberation\" has been associated with feminist aspirations since 1895, and appears in the context of \"women's liberation\" in Simone de Beauvoir's 1949 \"The Second Sex\", which appeared in English translation in 1953. The phrase \"women's liberation\" was first used in 1964, in print in 1966, though the French equivalent, \"libération des femmes\", occurred as far back as 1911. \"Women's liberation\" was in use at the 1967 American Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) convention, which held a panel discussion on the topic. In 1968, the term \"Women's Liberation Front\" appeared in \"Ramparts\" magazine, and began to refer to the whole women's movement. In Chicago, women disillusioned with the New Left met separately in 1967, and published \"Voice of the Women's Liberation Movement\" in March 1968. When the Miss America pageant took place in Atlantic City in September 1968, the media referred to the resulting demonstrations as \"Women's Liberation\". The Chicago Women's Liberation Union was formed in 1969. Similar groups with similar titles appeared in many parts of the United States. Bra-burning, although fictional, became associated with the movement, and the media coined other terms such as \"libber\". \"Women's Liberation\" persisted over the other rival terms for the new feminism, captured the popular imagination, and has endured alongside the older term \"Women's Movement\".\n\n1960s feminism, its theory, and its activism was informed and fueled by the social, cultural, and political climate of that decade. This time was marked by increased female enrollment in higher education, the establishment of academic women's studies courses and departments, and feminist ideology in other related fields, such as politics, sociology, history, and literature. This academic shift in interests questioned the status quo, and its standards and authority.\n\nThe rise of the Women's Liberation movement revealed \"multiple feminisms\", or different underlying feminist lenses, due to the diverse origins from which groups had coalesced and intersected, and the complexity and contentiousness of the issues involved. bell hooks is noted as a prominent critic of the movement for its lack of voice given to the most oppressed women, its lack of emphasis on the inequalities of race and class, and its distance from the issues that divide women.\n\nEmpowered by \"The Feminine Mystique\", new feminist activists of the 1970s addressed more political and sexual issues in their writing, including Gloria Steinem's \"Ms.\" magazine and Kate Millett's \"Sexual Politics\". Millett's bleak survey of male writers, their attitudes and biases, to demonstrate that sex is politics, and politics is power imbalance in relationships. Shulamith Firestone's \"The Dialectic of Sex\" described a revolution based in Marxism, referenced as the \"sex war\". Considering the debates over patriarchy, she claimed that male domination dated to \"back beyond recorded history to the animal kingdom itself\".\n\nGermaine Greer's \"The Female Eunuch\", Sheila Rowbotham's \"Women's Liberation and the New Politics\", and Juliet Mitchell's \"Woman's Estate\" represent the English perspective. Mitchell argued that the movement should be seen as an international phenomenon with different manifestations based on local culture. British women drew on left-wing politics and organized small local discussion groups, partly through the London Women's Liberation Workshop and its publications, \"Shrew\" and the LWLW Newsletter. Although there were marches, the focus was on consciousness-raising, or political activism intended to bring a cause or condition to a wider audience. Kathie Sarachild of Redstockings described its function as such that women would \"find what they thought was an individual dilemma is social predicament\". Women found that their own personal experiences were information that they could trust in formulating political analyses.\n\nMeanwhile, in the U.S., women's frustrations crystallized around the failure to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment during the 1970s. Susan Brownmiller's 1975 \"Against Our Will\" introduced an explicit agenda against male violence, specifically male sexual violence, in a treatise on rape. Her assertion that \"pornography is the theory and rape the practice\" created deep fault lines around the concepts of objectification and commodification. Brownmiller's other major book, \"In our Time\" (2000), is a history of women's liberation.\n\nSusan Griffin was one of the first feminists to write on pornography's implications in her 1981 \"Pornography and Silence\". Beyond Brownmiller and Griffin's positions, Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin influenced debates and activism around pornography and prostitution, particularly at the Supreme Court of Canada. MacKinnon, a lawyer, has stated, \"To be about to be raped is to be gender female in the process of going about life as usual.\" She explained sexual harassment by saying that it \"doesn't mean that they [harassers] all want to fuck us, they just want to hurt us, dominate us, and control us, and that is fucking us.\" According to Pauline B. Bart, some people see radical feminism as the only movement that truly expresses the pain of being a woman in an unequal society, as it portrays that reality with the experiences of the battered and violated, which they claim to be the norm. Critics, including some feminists, civil libertarians, and jurists, have found this position uncomfortable and alienating.\n\nThis approach has evolved to transform the research and perspective on rape from an individual experience into a social problem.\n\nThird-wave feminism began in the early 1990s in response to what young women perceived as failures of the second-wave. It also responds to the backlash against the second-wave's initiatives and movements. Third-wave feminism seeks to challenge or avoid second-wave \"essentialist\" definitions of femininity, which over-emphasized the experiences of white, upper middle class women. A post-structuralist interpretation of gender and sexuality, or an understanding of gender as outside binary maleness and femaleness, is central to much of the third wave's ideology. Third-wave feminists often describe \"micropolitics\", and challenge second-wave paradigms about whether actions are unilaterally good for females.\n\nThese aspects of third-wave feminism arose in the mid-1980s. Feminist leaders rooted in the second wave like Gloria Anzaldúa, bell hooks, Chela Sandoval, Cherríe Moraga, Audre Lorde, Luisa Accati, Maxine Hong Kingston, and many other feminists of color, called for a new subjectivity in feminist voice. They wanted prominent feminist thought to consider race-related subjectivities. This focus on the intersection between race and gender remained prominent through the 1991 Hill–Thomas hearings, but began to shift with the Freedom Ride 1992, a drive to register voters in poor minority communities whose rhetoric intended to rally young feminists. For many, the rallying of the young is the common link within third-wave feminism.\n\nLesbianism during the second wave was visible within and without feminism. Lesbians felt sidelined by both gay liberation and women's liberation, where they were referred to as the \"Lavender Menace\", provoking \"The Woman-Identified Woman\", a 1970 manifesto that put lesbian women at the forefront of the liberation movement. Jill Johnston's 1973 \"\" argued for lesbian separatism. In its extreme form, this was expressed as the only appropriate choice for a woman. Eventually the lesbian movement was welcomed into the mainstream women's movement. This union's threat to male normativity was substantiated by the male backlash that followed.\n\nIn reproductive rights, feminists sought the right to contraception and birth control, which were almost universally restricted until the 1960s. Feminists hoped to use the first birth control pill to free women to decide the terms under which they will bear children. They felt that reproductive self-control was essential for full economic independence from men. Access to abortion was also widely demanded for these reasons, but was more difficult to secure due to existing, deep societal divisions over the issue.\n\nThird-wave feminists also fought to hasten social acceptance of female sexual freedom. As societal norms allowed men to have multiple sexual partners without rebuke, feminists sought sexual equality for that freedom and encouraged \"sexual liberation\" for women, including sex for pleasure with multiple partners, if desired. \n\nFollowing World War II, the United Nations (UN) extended feminism's global reach. They established a Commission on the Status of Women in 1946., which later joined the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). In 1948, the UN issued its Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which protects \"the equal rights of men and women\", and addressed both equality and equity. Starting with the 1975 World Conference of the International Women's Year in Mexico City as part of their Decade for Women (1975–85), the UN has held a series of world conferences on women's issues. These conferences have worldwide female representation and provide considerable opportunity to advance women's rights. They also illustrate deep cultural divisions and disagreement on universal principles, as evidenced by the successive Copenhagen (1980) and Nairobi (1985) conferences. Examples of such intrafeminism divisions have included disparities between economic development, attitudes towards forms of oppression, the definition of feminism, and stances on homosexuality, female circumcision, and population control. The Nairobi convention revealed a less monolithic feminism that \"constitutes the political expression of the concerns and interests of women from different regions, classes, nationalities, and ethnic backgrounds. There is and must be a diversity of feminisms, responsive to the different needs and concerns of women, and defined by them for themselves. This diversity builds on a common opposition to gender oppression and hierarchy which, however, is only the first step in articulating and acting upon a political agenda.\" The fourth conference was held in Beijing in 1995, where the Beijing Platform for Action was signed. This included a commitment to achieve \"gender equality and the empowerment of women\" through \"gender mainstreaming\", or letting women and men \"experience equal conditions for realising their full human rights, and have the opportunity to contribute and benefit from national, political, economic, social and cultural development\".\n\nFourth-wave feminism is a recent development within the feminist movement. Jennifer Baumgardner identifies fourth-wave feminism as starting in 2008 and continuing into the present day. Kira Cochrane, author of \" All the Rebel Women: The Rise of the Fourth Wave of Feminism\", defines fourth-wave feminism as a movement that is connected through technology. Researcher Diana Diamond defines fourth-wave feminism as a movement that \"combines politics, psychology, and spirituality in an overarching vision of change.\" \n\nIn 2005, Pythia Peay first argued for the existence of a fourth wave of feminism, combining justice with religious spirituality. According to Jennifer Baumgardner in 2011, a fourth wave, incorporating online resources such as social media, may have begun in 2008, inspired partly by Take Our Daughters to Work Days. This fourth wave in turn has inspired or been associated with: the Doula Project for children's services; post-abortion talk lines; pursuit of reproductive justice; plus-size fashion support; transgenderism support; male feminism; sex work acceptance; and developing media including Feministing, Racialicious, blogs, and Twitter campaigns.\n\nAccording to Kira Cochrane, a fourth wave had appeared in the U.K. and several other nations by 2012-13. It focused on: sexual inequality as manifested in \"street harassment, sexual harassment, workplace discrimination[,] ... body-shaming\"; media images, \"online misogyny\", \"assault[s] on public transport\"; on intersectionality; on social media technology for communication and online petitioning for organizing; and on the perception, inherited from prior waves, that individual experiences are shared and thus can have political solutions. Cochrane identified as fourth wave such organizations and websites as the Everyday Sexism Project and UK Feminista; and events such as Reclaim the Night, One Billion Rising, and \"a Lose the Lads' mags protest\", where \"many of [the leaders] ... are in their teens and 20s\".\n\nIn 2014, Betty Dodson, who is also acknowledged as one of the leaders of the early 1980s pro-sex feminist movement, expressed that she considers herself a fourth wave feminist. Dodson expressed that the previous waves of feminist were banal and anti-sexual, which is why she has chosen to look at a new stance of feminism, fourth wave feminism. In 2014, Dodson worked with women to discover their sexual desires through masturbation. Dodson says her work has gained a fresh lease of life with a new audience of young, successful women who have never had an orgasm. This includes fourth-wave feminists - those rejecting the anti-pleasure stance they believe third-wave feminists stand for.\n\nIn 2014, Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett and Holly Baxter released their book, \"The Vagenda.\" The authors of the book both consider themselves fourth wave feminists. Like their website \"The Vagenda\", their book aims to flag and debunk the stereotypes of femininity promoted by the mainstream women's press. One reviewer of the book has expressed disappointment with \"The Vagenda\", saying that instead of being the \"call to arms for young women\" that it purports to be, it reads like a joyless dissertation detailing \"everything bad the media has ever done to women.\"\n\nThe Everyday Sexism Project began as a social media campaign on 16 April 2012 by Laura Bates, a British feminist writer. The aim of the site was to document everyday examples of sexism as reported by contributors around the world. Bates established the Everyday Sexism Project as an open forum where women could post their experiences of harassment. Bates explains the Everyday Sexism Project's goal, \"\"The project was never about solving sexism. It was about getting people to take the first step of just realising there is a problem that needs to be fixed.\"\n\nThe website was such a success that Bates decided to write and publish a book, \"Everyday Sexism\", which further emphasizes the importance of having this type of online forum for women. The book provides unique insight into the vibrant movement of the upcoming fourth wave and the untold stories that women shared through the Everyday Sexism Project.\n\nClick! The Ongoing Feminist Revolution\n\nIn November 2015, a group of historians working with Clio Visualizing History launched \"Click! The Ongoing Feminist Revolution.\" This digital history exhibit examines the history of American feminism from the era of World War Two to the present. The exhibit has three major sections: Politics and Social Movements; Body and Health; and Workplace and Family. There are also interactive timelines linking to a vast array of sources documenting the history of American feminism and providing information about current feminist activism.\n\nThe wave metaphor has been critiqued as inappropriate, limiting, and misleading by a number of feminist scholars.\n\nWhile this metaphor was once useful for United States feminists in order to gain the attention required to make large-scale political changes, as was the case for the women’s suffrage movement of the 1940s, its relevance may have not only run its course but its usage has been argued as completely inappropriate. For example, the suffragettes did not use the term ‘feminism’ to describe themselves or their movement. This critique is shown through one early twentieth century feminist’s words: “All feminists are suffragists, but not all suffragists are feminists”.\n\nThe wave metaphor has been described as misleading and even dangerous because it not only renders the periods of time in-between waves as silent and irrelevant, but it also contributes to the faulty conceptualization of a particular brand hegemonic feminism as the ultimate understanding of what feminism is. These critiques advocate for the recognition of periods of mass social organizing rather than ‘waves’. It is argued that the wave metaphor weakens the strength and relevance of feminist arguments, since waves necessarily must peak and then retreat, which is not an accurate picture of feminist progress in the United States or elsewhere. Feminism does not retreat or disappear in-between ‘waves'. For example, after the explosion of mass social organizing in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, feminism was being worked into our institutions – a much less glamorous but just as important job that did not require such large-scale attention. As a result, we have seen more and more women in more areas of the job force, higher education, and the installation and success of Women’s and Gender Studies programs across the United States, to name just a few examples of feminism’s continuous and very relevant presence in this time between the ‘waves’.\n\nThe wave metaphor has further been criticized for privileging not only particular races and classes of women in the United States, but for privileging the feminism of the United States in general over other locations in the world. Amrita Basu argues for, “the politics and conditions of emergence,” instead of the wave metaphor, which does not allow for this privileging of particular people and nations but instead allows for the importance and understanding of any and all peoples in the world who have contributed to feminism and its many understandings and meanings.\n\nThe 18th century French Revolution's focus on \"égalité\" (equality) extended to the inequities faced by French women. The writer Olympe de Gouges amended the 1791 \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" into the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\", where she argued that women accountable to the law must also bear equal responsibility under the law. She also addressed marriage as a social contract between equals and attacked women's reliance on beauty and charm as a form of slavery.\n\nThe 19th century, conservative, post-Revolution France was inhospitable for feminist ideas, as expressed in the counter-revolutionary writings on the role of women by Joseph de Maistre and Viscount Louis de Bonald. Advancement came mid-century under the 1848 revolution and the proclamation of the Second Republic, which introduced male suffrage amid hopes that similar benefits would apply to women. Although the Utopian Charles Fourier is considered a feminist writer of this period, his influence was minimal at the time. With the fall of the conservative Louis-Philippe in 1848, feminist hopes were raised, as in 1790. Movement newspapers and organizations appeared, such as Eugénie Niboyet's \"La Voix des Femmes\" (\"The Women's Voice\"), the first feminist daily newspaper in France. Niboyet was a Protestant who had adopted Saint-Simonianism, and \"La Voix\" attracted other women from that movement, including the seamstress Jeanne Deroin and the primary schoolteacher Pauline Roland. Unsuccessful attempts were also made to recruit George Sand. Feminism was treated as a threat due to its ties with socialism, which was scrutinized since the Revolution. Deroin and Roland were both arrested, tried, and imprisoned in 1849. With the emergence of a new, more conservative government in 1852, feminism would have to wait until the Third French Republic.\n\nThe Groupe Français d'Etudes Féministes were women intellectuals at the beginning of the 20th century who translated part of Bachofen's canon into French and campaigned for the family law reform. In 1905, they founded \"L'entente\", which published articles on women's history, and became the focus for the intellectual avant-garde. It advocated for women's entry into higher education and the male-dominated professions. Meanwhile, the Parti Socialiste Féminin socialist feminists, adopted a Marxist version of matriarchy. Like the Groupe Français, they toiled for a new age of equality, not for a return to prehistoric models of matriarchy. French feminism of the late 20th century is mainly associated with psychoanalytic feminist theory, particularly the work of Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, and Hélène Cixous.\n\nModern feminism in Germany began during the Wilhelmine period (1888–1918) with feminists pressuring a range of traditional institutions, from universities to government, to open their doors to women. The organized German women's movement is widely attributed to writer and feminist Louise Otto-Peters (1819–1895). This movement culminated in women's suffrage in 1919. Later waves of feminists continued to ask for legal and social equality in public and family life. Alice Schwarzer is the most prominent contemporary German feminist.\n\nThe Iranian women's rights movement first emerged some time after the Iranian Constitutional Revolution, in the year in which the first women's journal was published, 1910. The movement lasted until 1933, when the last women's association was dissolved by the Reza Shah's government. The status of women further deteriorated after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Many of the rights women gained under Shah were systematically abolished through legislation, elimination of women from work, and forced hijab (veils for women). The movement later grew again under feminist figures such as Bibi Khanoom Astarabadi, Touba Azmoudeh, Sediqeh Dowlatabadi, Mohtaram Eskandari, Roshank No'doost, Afaq Parsa, Fakhr ozma Arghoun, Shahnaz Azad, Noor-ol-Hoda Mangeneh, Zandokht Shirazi, Maryam Amid (Mariam Mozayen-ol Sadat).\n\nIn 1992, Shahla Sherkat founded \"Zanan\" (\"Women\") magazine, which covered Iranian women's concerns and tested political boundaries with edgy reportage on reform politics, domestic abuse, and sex. It is the most important Iranian women's journal published after the Iranian revolution. It systematically criticized the Islamic legal code and argued that gender equality is Islamic and religious literature had been misread and misappropriated by misogynists. Mehangiz Kar, Shahla Lahiji, and Shahla Sherkat, the editor of \"Zanan\", lead the debate on women's rights and demanded reforms. On August 27, 2006, the One Million Signatures Iranian women's rights campaign was started. It aims to end legal discrimination against women in Iranian laws by collecting a million signatures. The campaign supporters include many Iranian women's rights activists, international activists, and Nobel laureates. The most important post-revolution feminist figures are Mehrangiz Kar, Azam Taleghani, Shahla Sherkat, Parvin Ardalan, Noushin Ahmadi khorasani, and Shadi Sadr.\n\nIn 1899, Qasim Amin, considered the \"father\" of Arab feminism, wrote \"The Liberation of Women\", which argued for legal and social reforms for women. Hoda Shaarawi founded the Egyptian Feminist Union in 1923 and became its president and a symbol of the Arab women's rights movement. Arab feminism was closely connected with Arab nationalism. In 1956, President Gamal Abdel Nasser's government initiated \"state feminism\", which outlawed gender-based discrimination and granted women's suffrage. Despite these reforms, \"state feminism\" blocked feminist political activism and brought an end to the first-wave feminist movement in Egypt. During Anwar Sadat's presidency, his wife, Jehan Sadat, publicly advocated for expansion of women's rights, though Egyptian policy and society was in retreat from women's equality with the new Islamist movement and growing conservatism. However, writers such as Al Ghazali Harb, for example, argued that women's full equality is an important part of Islam. This position formed a new feminist movement, Islamic feminism, which is still active today.\n\nA new generation of Indian feminists emerged following global feminism. Indian women have greater independence from increased access to higher education and control over their reproductive rights. Medha Patkar, Madhu Kishwar, and Brinda Karat are feminist social workers and politicians who advocate for women's rights in post-independence India. Writers such as Amrita Pritam, Sarojini Sahoo, and Kusum Ansal advocate for feminist ideas in Indian languages. Rajeshwari Sunder Rajan, Leela Kasturi, and Vidyut Bhagat are Indian feminist essayists and critics writing in English.\n\n Feminism in China began in the late Qing period as Chinese society re-evaluated traditional and Confucian values such as foot binding and gender segregation, and began to reject traditional gender ideas as hindering progress towards modernization. During the 1898 Hundred Days' Reform, reformers called for women's education, gender equality, and the end of foot binding. Female reformers formed the first Chinese women's society, the Society for the Diffusion of Knowledge among Chinese Women (\"Nüxuehui\"). After the Qing Dynasty's collapse, women's liberation became a goal of the May Fourth Movement and the New Culture Movement. Later, the Chinese Communist Revolution adopted women's liberation as one of its aims and promoted women's equality, especially regarding women's participation in the workforce. After the revolution and progress in integrating women into the workforce, the Chinese Communist Party claimed to have successfully achieved women's liberation, and women's inequality was no longer seen as a problem.\n\nSecond- and third-wave feminism in China was characterized by a re-examination of women's roles during the reform movements of the early 20th century and the ways in which feminism was adopted by those various movements in order to achieve their goals. Later and current feminists have questioned whether gender equality has actually been fully achieved, and discuss current gender problems, such as the large gender disparity in the population.\n\nJapanese feminism as an organized political movement dates back to the early years of the 20th century when Kato Shidzue pushed for birth control availability as part of a broad spectrum of progressive reforms. Shidzue went on to serve in the National Diet following the defeat of Japan in World War II and the promulgation of the Peace Constitution by US forces. Other figures such as Hayashi Fumiko and Ariyoshi Sawako illustrate the broad socialist ideologies of Japanese feminism that seeks to accomplish broad goals rather than celebrate the individual achievements of powerful women.\n\nNorwegian feminism's political origins are in the women's suffrage movement. Camilla Collett (1813–1895) is widely considered the first Norwegian feminist. Originating from a literary family, she wrote a novel and several articles on the difficulties facing women of her time, and, in particular, forced marriages. Amalie Skram (1846–1905), a naturalist writer, also served as the women's voice.\n\nThe Norwegian Association for Women's Rights was founded in 1884 by Gina Krog and Hagbart Berner. The organization raised issues related to women's rights to education and economic self-determination, and, above all, universal suffrage. The Norwegian Parliament passed the women's right to vote into law on June 11, 1913. Norway was the second country in Europe (after Finland) to have full suffrage for women.\n\nThe development of feminism in Poland (re-recreated in modern times in 1918) and Polish territories has traditionally been divided into seven successive \"waves\".\n\nRadical feminism emerged in 1920s Poland. Its chief representatives, Irena Krzywicka and Maria Morozowicz-Szczepkowska, advocated for women's personal, social, and legal independence from men. Krzywicka and Tadeusz Żeleński both promoted planned parenthood, sexual education, rights to divorce and abortion, and equality of sexes. Krzywicka published a series of articles in \"Wiadomości Literackie\" in which she protested against interference by the Roman Catholic Church in the intimate lives of Poles.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Polish Communist state (established in 1948) forcefully promoted women's emancipation at home and at work. However, during Communist rule (until 1989), feminism in general and second-wave feminism in particular were practically absent. Although feminist texts were produced in the 1950s and afterwards, they were usually controlled and generated by the Communist state. After the fall of Communism, the Polish government, dominated by Catholic political parties, introduced a \"de facto\" legal ban on abortions. Since then, some feminists have adopted argumentative strategies from the 1980s American pro-choice movement.\n\nThe sexuality and gender historian Nancy Cott distinguishes between \"modern feminism\" and its antecedents, particularly the struggle for suffrage. She argues that in the two decades surrounding the Nineteenth Amendment's 1920 passage, the prior \"woman movement\" primarily concerned women as \"universal\" entities, whereas over this 20-year period, the movement prioritized social differentiation, attention to \"individuality\", and diversity. New issues dealt more with gender as a social construct, gender identity, and relationships within and between genders. Politically, this represented a shift from an ideological alignment comfortable with the right, to one more radically associated with the left.\n\nIn the immediate postwar period, Simone de Beauvoir opposed the \"woman in the home\" norm. She introduced an existentialist dimension to feminism with the publication of \"Le Deuxième Sexe\" (\"The Second Sex\") in 1949. While less an activist than a philosopher and novelist, she signed one of the Mouvement de Libération des Femmes manifestos.\n\nThe resurgence of feminist activism in the late 1960s was accompanied by an emerging literature of what might be considered female-associated issues, such as concerns for the earth, spirituality, and environmental activism. The atmosphere this created reignited the study of and debate on matricentricity as a rejection of determinism, such as with Adrienne Rich in \"Of Woman Born\" and Marilyn French in \"Beyond Power\". For socialist feminists like Evelyn Reed, patriarchy held the properties of capitalism.\n\nAnn Taylor Allen describes the differences between the collective male pessimism of male intellectuals such as Ferdinand Tönnies, Max Weber, and Georg Simmel at the beginning of the 20th century, compared to the optimism of their female counterparts, whose contributions have largely been ignored by social historians of the era.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36744393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36744393", "title": "Housing in China", "text": "Housing in China\n\nIn recent years, housing development has ballooned in China as its economy has developed. Since 1978, the government has promoted the commercialization of housing in urban areas. Property development has become big business in China, with new cities and suburbs springing up with new apartments.\n\nThe most important objective of the Chinese government is to increase national GDP, and is launching building developments across China to promote economic development. However, property development in China is vastly outgrowing the number of people who can purchase them which sociologists show a major concern over and argue that it is leading to a deepening of social divisions in the country. Many apartments, hotels and shops remain empty for years, with many Chinese unable to afford them. As \"The Economist\" says, \"If there is one thing that annoys the man on the Beijing omnibus, it is the cost of housing in China's cities.\"\n\nThis issue was not applicable to the housing market pre-1978 in China. Before the 1970s, the construction of housing in China was sacrificed for the development of industries and industrial growth. The construction of the housing industry only received a small portion of state-allocated funds to continue to develop the industry. Low rents for urban housing were enticing to many people, causing the available housing to be rented out quickly, giving the state little money for the precious space they are renting out. This led to a shortage of housing and a shortage of funds to build more housing.\n\nBetween the years of 1995 and 2015, the total investment allocated to the housing industry from the Chinese government has increased from a cap of 50,000 yuan to a cut-off point of 5 million yuan, showing a renewed interest in housing development in recent years from the Chinese government after years of limited funding towards the urban housing projects. The Chinese government announced in March 2011 the objective of building 36 million units of housing by 2015. In September 2011 alone, work commenced on 1.2 million units across China; a 70% increase in the construction of social housing compared with 2010 construction. By 2014, Chinese builders have added 100 billion square feet of housing space in China, equating to 74 square feet per person. Construction of urban housing was a major undertaking. The country has shown a major shift in allocating funds and resources to housing their people, building over 5.5 million apartments between the years of 2003 and 2014 in China’s cities. These construction projects assigned by the state influence the construction job market in China as well. In 2014 alone, 29 million people were employed in urban construction businesses around China.\n\nThe 2011 estimates by property analysts state that there are some 89 million empty properties and apartments in China and that housing development in China is massively oversupplied and overvalued, and is a bubble waiting to burst with serious consequences in the future. The BBC cites Ordos in Inner Mongolia as the largest ghost town in China, full of empty shopping malls and apartment complexes. A large, and largely uninhabited urban real estate development has been constructed 25 km from Dongsheng District in the Kangbashi New Area. Intended to house a million people, it remains largely uninhabited. Intended to have 300,000 residents by 2010, government figures stated it had 28,000 residents by this time.\n\nCritics argue that the national social-housing programme disproportionally benefits the urban population and that not only can many of the rural poor ill afford new housing in the cities, but they also find it difficult to obtain household-registration certificates (hukou). The housing development schemes is also affecting the concentration of unemployment as once housing development are completed, workers may be laid off. According to the former Director of China's Housing & Real Estate Administration Bureau, Professor Lin, as of 2008, Beijing had an average of 1.41 individuals per room across the city. \n\nChina's housing prices are closely related to the high capital returns and resource reallocation. China's housing prices have been growing nearly twice as fast as national income over the past decade, despite a high vacancy rate and a high rate of return to capital. The bubble arises because high capital returns driven by resource reallocation are not sustainable in the long run. Rational expectations of a strong future demand for alternative stores of value can thus induce currently productive agents to speculate in the housing market. \n\n\"China's housing prices have been growing nearly twice as fast as national income over the past decade, despite a high vacancy rate and a high rate of return to capital. The bubble arises because high capital returns driven by resource reallocation are not sustainable in the long run. Rational expectations of a strong future demand for alternative stores of value can thus induce currently productive agents to speculate in the housing market\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30493021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30493021", "title": "Illegal immigration from Africa to Israel", "text": "Illegal immigration from Africa to Israel\n\nIllegal immigration from Africa to Israel (often also referred to as infiltration by the Israeli media and by Israeli government organizations; however, the use of the term has been criticized) refers to the act of African nationals entering Israel in violation of Israeli law. This phenomenon began in the second half of the 2000s, when a large number of persons from Africa entered Israel, mainly through the fenced border between Israel and Egypt. According to the data of the Israeli Interior Ministry, 26,635 people arrived illegally in this way by July 2010, and over 55,000 by January 2012. In an attempt to curb the influx, Israel constructed the Egypt–Israel barrier, which was completed in December 2013.\n\nAs of January 2018, according to the Population and Immigration Authority (PIBA) there are 37,288 African migrants in Israel, not including children born to migrants in Israel.\n\nAfrican asylum seekers comprise 0.5% of Israel's population. Most African migrants are generally regarded to be legitimate asylum seekers by various human rights organizations.\n\nMany of the migrants seek an asylum status under the United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. However, many of them, mostly citizens of Eritrea and Sudan, cannot be forcibly deported from Israel. Under international law, Eritrea citizens (who, since 2009, form the majority of the undocumented workers in Israel) cannot be deported due to the opinion of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) that Eritrea has a difficult internal situation and a forced recruitment and therefore the Eritrean immigrants are defined as a \"temporary humanitarian protection group\". Israeli authorities have stated that they could not deport Sudanese directly back to Sudan because Israel has no diplomatic ties to Sudan. Accordingly, the Israeli authorities grant temporary residence through \"conditional release permits\" which must be renewed every one to four months, depending on the discretion of the individual immigration official. Various authorities in Israel estimate that 80–90% of the undocumented workers live primarily in two centers: more than 60% in Tel Aviv and more than 20% Eilat, with a few in Ashdod, Jerusalem and Arad.\n\nThe UNHCR has declared Eritrea a country in humanitarian crisis. In the Darfur region in western Sudan, a genocide has been taking place since 2003. As a result, many of its residents became refugees and fled to Egypt. Added to those were refugees from southern Sudan, where civil war took place between the predominantly Arab Muslim inhabitants of the north and the non-Arab, Christians and animists inhabitants of the south.\n\nIn 2009, in reports to UNHCR, Israel stated that 90% of the persons who arrived illegally from Sudan and Eritrea were genuine refugees.\n\nAccording to the government, the majority of the migrants are seeking economic opportunity. This is not the case among Israel's allies such as the United States, where the vast majority of Eritrean and Sudanese applicants are accepted as refugees. Once in Israel, African migrants have sought refugee status for fleeing forced, open-ended conscription in Eritrea or ethnic cleansing in the Darfur region of Sudan, but the government of Israel maintains that these areas merely have a poor human rights record, which does not automatically entitle one to asylum. To qualify, applicants must establish that they face the risk of personal harm or persecution if they return to their country. The Interior Ministry has failed to review the vast majority of asylum requests.\n\nMost migrants request refugee status after arriving in Israel, in accordance with the United Nations's Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. Israel does not review the status of the individual immigrants originating from Eritrea or Sudan, who constitute about 83% of the total people coming to Israel across the Egyptian border, and instead automatically grants them a \"temporary protection group\" status. This status allows these people to have temporary residence right within Israel, which must be renew every 3 months; usually this also means that they would be eligible for a work permit in Israel. In the past Israel also granted an automatic \"temporary protection group\" status to all citizens of the Ivory Coast and South Sudan, although since then the validity of this status has expired. Regarding the other asylum requests filed by citizens of other countries and examined individually, the Interior Ministry stated that only a fraction of them were actually eligible for refugee status.\n\nThe Israeli government originally tolerated the new arrivals from Africa. It allowed their entry and many migrants found menial jobs in hotels and restaurants. But after their numbers swelled, concerns were raised. In the second half of the 2000s decade, there was a significant increase in the number of undocumented workers from Africa to Israel who crossed the Egyptian border. In 2006 about 1,000 undocumented workers were detained; in 2007 about 5,000 were detained; in 2008 about 8,700 were detained; and in 2009 about 5,000 were detained. In the first half of 2010 the migration rate even further increased in the first seven months when over 8,000 undocumented workers were caught. The total number of undocumented workers is clearly greater than these figures, because many were not apprehended. The early wave of undocumented workers came mainly from Sudan, while in 2009 the majority of the immigrants were from Eritrea.\n\nIn early May 2010, it was estimated that 24,339 undocumented workers resided in Israel, of whom the number of Sudanese and Eritrean refugees who are not deportable under international law was 18,959: 5,649 Sudanese and 13,310 Eritreans. 16,766 of them received a special visa (ס 2א 5) granted to illegal immigrants who are non-deportable asylum seekers. Officially, the visa allows them only to stay in the country, but in practice the state also allows the refugees to work and avoids imposing fines on the Israeli employers who employ them. This special visa requires renewal every three months. The Israeli immigration police patrols the neighborhoods of south Tel Aviv regularly and arrests asylum seekers who do not carry a valid visa; the punishment can be one to three months in prison. In his book \"The Nightmare of the Exile\" Adam Ahmed describes how such an arrest is performed.\n\n141 immigrants, mostly from Ethiopia, received refugee status.\n\nAccording to the IDF's Operations Division in 2008, most of the countries from where the illegal immigrants came are (in descending order): Eritrea, Sudan, Ethiopia, Ivory Coast and Nigeria. Most of the illegal immigrants (85%) were men.\n\nMost migrants initially arrive in Egypt, and from there they often pay sums of up to two thousand dollars for Bedouin smugglers to transfer them to the border between Egypt and Israel. There have been cases of abuse against the female migrants committed by the Bedouin smugglers, including rape, kidnapping for ransom, and murder. Another danger for the migrants includes the Egyptian army policy to shoot at them in order to prevent crossing the Egypt/Israel border.\n\nTo contain the illegal entry of persons, construction of the Egypt–Israel barrier commenced in 2012 and was completed in 2015. 9,570 citizens of various African countries entered Israel illegally in the first half of 2012, while only 34 did the same in the first six months of 2013, after construction of the main section of the barrier was completed. After the entire fence was completed, the number of migrant crossings had dropped to 16 in 2016.\n\nAs of April 2012, 59,858 illegal immigrants who were never imprisoned in detention facilities have illegally enter into Israel (in August 2010 the number of the imprisoned was 1,900). Several thousands of them did not end up staying in the country. The Israeli department of immigration does not keep continuous supervision over their place of residence but, according to estimates based on data from the Israeli police, the local authorities and the aid organizations, approximately 34,000 illegal immigrants originated from Eritrea, about 15,000 originated from Sudan and 10,000 originated from other countries. The Israeli Administration of Border Crossings, Population and Immigration does not keep detailed documentation regarding their place of residence, but according to estimates from 2011, which are based on data from the Israeli police, the local authorities and the NGOs, circa 15,000–17,000 illegal immigrants lived in Tel Aviv (mainly in southern Tel Aviv, though the number also includes illegal immigrants living in Bat Yam and Bnei Brak) and 4,000–8,000 living in Eilat. While the estimates in Ashdod range from 1,500 to 2,000 illegal immigrants, in Jerusalem range from 1,000 to 8,000 illegal immigrants, and in Arad range from 400 to 600 illegal immigrants. As of 2017, only 39,274 of those who entered the country remain.\n\nIn a discussion held by the police commissioner Dudi Cohen in December 2010, he stated that while there is a decline in cases of robberies in the general population, there is a dramatic increase in this type of crime among the illegal immigrants. According to the research department of the Israel Police and Israel's foreign immigrants' crime is characterized by predominantly sectoral internal crime, in which a gun is not reported, and illegal immigrants generally have no interest in complaining to the police. Due to an increase in criminal acts and the feeling of insecurity among the residents of southern Tel Aviv, the Israeli police established a new station near the New central bus station and the Shapira neighborhood. The station includes approximately 100 police officers and is expected to accommodate about 150 police officers. According to the data of the Israeli Police, which was presented to the Knesset in March 2012, from 2007 there was a steady increase in the involvement in crime of the illegal immigrants, both due to the significant increase in their numbers and for various other reasons. In 2011, 1,200 criminal cases were opened against illegal immigrants from Africa, half of them in the Tel Aviv district. This is an increase of 54% in comparison to the previous year.\n\nMassive protests supporting the illegal immigrants and promoting their remaining in Israel have taken place simultaneous with other Israelis calling for their deportation. Crime is a major factor for residents who call for the government to repatriate the migrants. Examples include the murder of 68-year-old Esther Galili who was beaten to death near her South Tel Aviv home in 2010 by a drunken Sudanese migrant. Her daughter Corine Galili is now an activist with the Residents of Southern Tel Aviv council. Another example includes the rape of 83-year-old Ester Nahman by a 17-year-old Eritrean migrant in 2013. There has also been a concern of crimes committed by migrants against migrants including rape and murder. According to David Filo, the police commander in charge of the district that includes south Tel Aviv, the local police station went from only four or five officers before the wave of immigrants, to more than 200 as of 2017 on duty around the clock due to the increase in crime. He stated that statistics indicate most of the crimes reported are between immigrants and include theft, drug sales and domestic violence.\n\nIsraeli police reported experiencing difficulties dealing with criminal cases involving illegal immigrants originating from Africa, since the police do not possess interpreters who are capable of speaking the Tigrinya language spoken in Eritrea. In addition, the Israeli legal system also has reported a serious difficulty in conducting proper criminal procedures involving suspects who speak only the Tigrinya language.\n\nIn her ruling on the Holot \"open detention facility\", Israeli Supreme Court justice Edna Arbel stated that there is disagreement regarding the factual situation, whereas there are studies that show that the level of crime committed by infiltrators is lower than that in society in general. She however emphasized that the distressful feeling of the residents of South Tel Aviv that the level of security in their neighborhoods has decreased considerably, should not be underestimated.\n\nIn 2010 Israel began building a barrier along sections of its border with Egypt to curb the influx of refugees from African countries. Construction was completed in January 2013. 230 km of fence have been built. While 9,570 citizens of various African countries entered Israel illegally in the first half of 2012, only 34 did the same in the first six months of 2013, after construction of the barrier was completed. It represents a decrease of over 99%.\n\nIsrael also began deporting thousands of illegal immigrants who were residing in the country. In 2013 Israel began to deport illegal immigrants to Uganda, reportedly in exchange for weapons and military training. In November 2017 Israel announced its intent to deport thousands of illegal immigrants by March 2018. African migrants are told to choose between returning to their home countries or being sent to third countries, that are rumored to be Rwanda and Uganda. The Israeli Knesset announced that illegal immigrants who do not leave by March 2018 will be jailed until they leave Israel.\n\nIn 2012, the Israeli Knesset passed an \"anti-infiltration law.\" Many Africans who entered after the bill's passage or those whose visas have expired have been to the or the neighboring Saharonim prison. Advocates like MK Michal Rozin visited Saharonim and said that migrants received adequate food and medical care and were not mistreated, but said that sending migrants there was inhumane. However, conditions for many refugees elsewhere in the region are worse, and Israeli officials maintained that conditions there were adequate. After the Supreme Court of Israel declared that the long-term custody of migrants in Sahronim was unconstitutional, the government opened Holot, an open detention center, in December 2013. The 1,800 residents at Holot are allowed to leave but are required to sign in once a day and return for an evening curfew. Israeli courts temporarily cancelled the summonses of African migrants to the Holot facility, and froze others until appeals can be heard against them. Judges also criticized the summons process, saying there exist fundamental problems, including the failure to examine individual circumstances and the lack of hearings for illegal immigrants. The government stated that hearings were not necessary because ordering the migrants to travel to Holot does not violate their human rights.\n\nOn 22 September 2014, the High Court struck down the anti-infiltration law (under which the Holot facility operated) and ordered the state to close Holot within 90 days. The court addressed two measures: (1) whether to limit the detention of migrants, and (2) whether to close Holot. On both measures, the court sided with the petitioners (the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, the Hotline for Refugees and Migrants, ASSAF, Kav LaOved, Physicians for Human Rights–Israel, and Amnesty International–Israel). The ruling said that conditions at the facility were an \"unbearable violation of [their] basic rights, first and foremost the right to freedom and the right to dignity\". Illegal migrants can no longer be detained for up to a year without trial, however detention continues within legal boundaries. The detentions in Holot have continued, with illegal immigrants being detained for a year and then being prevented from living in Tel Aviv and Eilat upon their release. In November 2017, the Israeli government announced that it would be closing the Holot Detention Center within four months. \n\nA law passed in 2017 required that employers impose a 20 per cent deduction on the wages of workers who entered the country illegally from Egypt. The deducted money is deposited in a fund along with an employer paid tax of 16 per cent. This money is accessible to workers only when they leave Israel.\n\nIn April 2018, Israel reached an agreement with the United Nations to expel around 16,000 African migrants to Western countries in exchange for granting temporary residency in Israel to the same number. Shortly after, however, the deal was cancelled by the Israeli government.\n\nIsrael has a number of organizations focused on helping the asylum seekers in Israel (mainly by legal aid) including the Hotline for Refugees and Migrants, ASSAF, Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, African Refugees Development Center and Association for Civil Rights in Israel. The secular Jewish organization Bina, located in south Tel Aviv, has helped asylum seekers as well as Israeli citizens understand refugee rights, and has undertaken advocacy and educational activities including frequent trips for Israelis to visit the Holot Detention Center. Most of these organization are funded by the New Israel Fund. Relief organizations have been involved in discussions held in Knesset committees on this issue and have submitted a petition against the measures the state has taken to put a halt to the phenomenon of immigration.\n\nThe situation underscores the tension between two strong feelings in Israel. Israel was founded in the wake of the Holocaust and has provided refuge to Jews fleeing oppression around the world. On one hand, many Israelis feel Israel has a special responsibility to assist refugees in such dire conditions. On the other hand, many Israelis fear the continued migration of illegal immigrants and refugees would threaten the Jewish majority.\n\nIsraeli reaction to African migrants has been mixed, with groups protesting on both sides. Human Rights advocates have been outspoken about their concerns about the treatment of asylum seekers and migrants. In 2010, Israelis protested the construction of the Holot detention facility, which was built to detain illegal immigrants, stating that its construction goes against Human Rights values. At the same time, residents of South Tel Aviv demonstrated against the presence of foreigners living in their communities. In 2012, nearly 1,000 Israelis, mostly from neighborhoods in South Tel Aviv staged a protest against illegal immigrants, joined by Member of Knesset, Miri Regev, they asked the government for deportation and expulsion of migrants from Africa. MK Miri Regev stated \"the Sudanese were a cancer in our body.\" This protest led to destruction of property and businesses owned by Sudanese and Eritrean people as well as violence against said people. In 2015, an immigrant from Eritrea, Habtom Zarhum, was beaten to death by a mob after being misidentified as an assailant in a terrorist attack at the Beersheva bus station.\n\nIn the face of discrimination against asylum seekers, who are often believed to be migrant workers or illegal immigrants, many Israelis have continued to show their support over the years for the community. Refugee Seders have been held each year during the Jewish holiday of Passover, most recently taking place at Holot detention facility to show solidarity and support to the men living in detention. Support for refugees and immigrants to Israel is also demonstrated through the work of numerous non-profit organizations, including Kav LaOved (Worker's Hotline), ARDC, ASSAF. In late 2017, early 2018, prominent North American Jewish organizations joined with Israeli NGO’s to decry Israel’s recent decisions to close Holot and deport asylum seekers.\n\nThe Israeli demographer Arnon Soffer has expressed his opposition to the African illegal immigration phenomenon for several reasons. He claims that from a security perspective, they may serve as \"informant\" or as \"operatives of hostile states or terrorist organizations\". Socially, he claims that they are contributing to the congestion in the cities and to the rise in crime. From the demographic perspective, he perceives the asylum seekers and illegal immigrants to be a demographic threat to the Jewish majority. According to Sofer, failing to stop the illegal immigration waves at an early stage will only lead to much larger waves of illegal immigration in the future.\n\nThe Israeli economic commentator Nehemiah Shtrasler estimated that the illegal immigrants take the places of weaker manual workers, causing loss of jobs and a reduction in the wages. He also claimed that they burden the health care, welfare and education systems. \"We would never be able to raise the standard of living of the needy and reduce the gaps, if we keep on absorbing more and more destitute people.\"\n\nThe Israeli MK Ya'akov Katz (Katzele), who headed the government committee aimed at creating a solution to what they perceive to be an issue of illegal asylum seekers migrating to Israel, warned from immigration through the Israel–Egypt border and stated that if the current immigration rate to Israel would continue, within a few years there would be hundreds of thousands of illegal workers in Israel and that this would constitute a \"demographic threat\" to Israel, in addition to the other issues this situation would lead to, such as an \"increase in crime and poverty in the areas in which the immigrants concentrate\". One of Katz's proposals was to establish a city near the Egyptian border, where the immigrants would be gathered before being deported from the country.\n\nIn December 2011, Mayor of Tel Aviv Ron Huldai addressed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and demanded that the government would take \"immediate emergency actions\" against the immigrants. Huldai stated \"Israel cannot continue to ignore the growing wave of immigrants, which at this point it is clear to everyone that they infiltrate to Israel as migrant workers and that they are not in an existential threat.\" Huldai called to \"protect Israel's borders against infiltration\" and also to allocate the necessary resources for the immigrants who already entered the country \"and caused severe distress to the residents of the neighborhoods who were forced to deal with this influx\".\n\nIn Israeli cities that have high rates of African illegal immigrants, a resistance has emerged among the local population against this phenomenon. In mid-2010, a demonstration was held in Eilat against the non-action of the Israeli government, the residents claimed that they are now afraid to walk outside at certain neighborhoods at night. In the Shapira and Kiryat Shalom neighborhoods in the southern part of Tel Aviv a number of real estate agents have stated that they intend not to rent apartments in these neighborhoods to the illegal immigrants.\n\nOn 23 May 2012 a demonstration was held in the Hatikva Quarter, in which more than a thousand Israeli protesters protested against the way the Israeli government has been handling the influx of immigrants so far. During the demonstration the MKs Miri Regev, Danny Danon, Ronit Tirosh and Michael Ben-Ari held speeches. Later on the protest turned violent, as the participants began attacking passersby people, shattered panes of stores belonging to owners of African descent, burned garbage cans and clashed with the police forces. President Shimon Peres issued a condemnation of the violent words and actions against the African migrant workers, calling on Israelis to refrain from racism and incitement, saying: \"Hatred of foreigners contradicts the fundamental principles of Judaism. I am well aware of the difficulties faced by the residents of south Tel Aviv [and other similar areas], but violence is not the solution.\"\n\nIn a Channel 2 interview in November 2013, Tel Aviv Mayor Ron Huldai scoffed at government policy toward the migrants, saying, \"Can 50,000 people be a demographic threat? That's a mockery. ... The truth is they will remain here. They are human beings and I must take care of them.\"\n\nOn the other hand, demonstrations, rallies and other event supporting the refugees have also been held regularly. On 28 December 2013 thousands have protested in Tel Aviv against detention of asylum seekers from Sudan and Eritrea. The protesters, marched from Levinsky Park in South Tel Aviv to city center, decrying the detention without trial of African refugees in the Saharonim and Holot detention facilities. Migrants have reportedly said to fear for their life should they return to their home countries.\n\nOn 15 January 2014, the Knesset Committee on Foreign Workers met to discuss the Immigration and Border Authority policy toward illegal immigrants and its impact on the business sector. African migrants were present and participated in the Knesset meeting. They were supported by MK Michal Rozin of Meretz.\n\nIn April 2014, activists organized a Passover seder with asylum seekers at the Holot facility to recall the Passover story and call attention to the plight of the migrants. Similar seders were held in support of the migrants in Tel Aviv and Washington. Similar events took place in 2015 and 2016, the seder in 2016 also celebrated in Holot detention center was dedicated to raise awareness to the shortage and poor quality of food in Holot\n\nReactions among American Jews span the spectrum of Israeli politics on this issue and are evolving into a robust debate. The Maryland-based refugee rights organization HIAS, whose Israeli branch has been actively assisting African asylum seekers, has vocally opposed the Israeli government’s policy toward the asylum seekers and has called on Israel to evaluate their refugee status claims in accordance with international law. The Los Angeles-based organization StandWithUs, whose mission is \"supporting Israel around the world -- through education and fighting anti-Semitism\", states that \"most of the migrants came to Israel seeking work opportunities, not as refugees escaping war\"; as StandWithUs elaborates, \"unlike refugees who are fleeing war or persecution, economic migrants leave their countries in search of better work opportunities.\" However, globally, national authorities have found asylum seekers from Eritrea deserving of refugee status in 84% of applications, and have granted refugee status to Sudanese asylum seekers 56% of the time, whereas Israel has only granted 1% of asylum petitions from these asylum seekers. Mandatory lifetime conscription is among the human-rights abuses in Eritrea from which they may be fleeing. The Rabbinical Assembly, the clergy organization of Conservative Judaism, passed a resolution in 2016 stating that \"Israel’s Ministry of the Interior has been very reluctant to grant refugee status to bona fide asylum seekers\" and calling on Israel to do so. The rabbinic human-rights organization T’ruah, based in New York, has made it a priority to encourage Israel to evaluate all asylum seekers’ claims fairly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41178740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178740", "title": "Jamaicans of Spanish descent", "text": "Jamaicans of Spanish descent\n\nA Spanish Jamaican is a Jamaican citizen of Spanish origin or descent.\n\n\nThe Spaniards first settled on that part of the northern coast of Jamaica which is now known as the parish of St. Ann. There they built a town called Sevilla Nueva, or New Seville. Afterwards they moved to the southern part of the island and built the town of St. Jago de la Vega, which is still called Spanish Town. The island was given to the Columbus family as a personal estate in 1540, but they did nothing to develop it. The Spanish colony in Jamaica was never a very large or a very flourishing one.\n\nThe reminders of this historical period are the names of places all over the island, Such as Ocho Rios, Rio Bueno, Santa Cruz, Rio Cobre, Port Antonio and most importantly Spanish Town, formerly known as St. Jago de la Vega, the capital under the Spanish.\n\n"}
{"id": "5411790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411790", "title": "Japanese Peruvians", "text": "Japanese Peruvians\n\nJapanese Peruvians ( or \"nipo-peruano\", , \"Nikkei Perūjin\") are Peruvian citizens of Japanese origin or ancestry.\n\nThe Japanese began arriving in Peru in the late 1800s. Many factors motivated the Japanese to immigrate to Peru.\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century in Japan, the rumor spread that a country called Peru somewhere on the opposite side of the earth was \"full of gold\". This country, moreover, was a paradise with a mild climate, rich soil for farming, familiar dietary customs, and no epidemics, according to advertisements of Japanese emigration companies. 790 Japanese, all men between the ages of 20 and 45, left Japan in 1898 to work on Peru's coastal plantations as contract laborers. Their purpose was simple: to earn and save money for the return home upon termination of their four-year contracts. The 25 yen monthly salary on Peru's plantations was more than double the average salary in rural Japan (Suzuki, 1992).\n\nAt the time of the First Sino-Japanese War, the economic state of Japan was poor; due to this, their surplus of skilled farmers began to look for work elsewhere. Peru provided a new job market that was accommodating to them, since they admired their work-ethic. They provided a cheap and productive labor source. After the population of Japanese immigrants grew in Peru, many Peruvian Japanese began opening small businesses.\nPeru has the second largest ethnic Japanese population in South America (Brazil has the largest) and this community has made a significant cultural impact on the country, today constituting approximately 1.4% of the population of Peru.\n\nPeru was the first Latin American country to establish diplomatic relations with Japan, in June 1873. Peru was also the first Latin American country to accept Japanese immigration. The \"Sakura Maru\" carried Japanese families from Yokohama to Peru and arrived on April 3, 1899 at the Peruvian port city of Callao. This group of 790 Japanese became the first of several waves of emigrants who made new lives for themselves in Peru, some nine years before emigration to Brazil began.\n\nMost immigrants arrived from Okinawa, Gifu, Hiroshima, Kanagawa and Osaka prefectures. Many arrived as farmers or to work in the fields but, after their contracts were completed, settled in the cities. In the period before World War II, the Japanese community in Peru was largely run by \"issei\" immigrants born in Japan. \"Those of the second generation [the \"nisei\"] were almost inevitably excluded from community decision-making.\"\n\nThe Japanese Peruvian community began in 1899 when some 800 contract workers arrived in Callao Seaport in Lima. The Japanese migrants suffered from serious tropical diseases such as malaria, typhoid, and yellow fever, as well as discrimination due to race, language, and culture. Within a year, 143 had died and 93 fled to Bolivia (becoming the first Japanese immigrants in that country). A second ship, which brought over one thousand new Japanese immigrants, arrived four years later, and a third—with 774 Japanese immigrants—arrived in 1906 (Gardiner 1981: 3-4). By 1941 some 16,300 Japanese were living in Peru (10,300 from Okinawa and 6,000 from mainland Japan). Of these, only 3,300 were women (Masterson 2007: 148). Thus, unlike Brazil where farming family immigration was encouraged by the Brazilian authority for the migratory workers to settle in coffee plantations, single Japanese men but few women migrated to Peru. Most Japanese men married local women. Today, there are about 160,000 people of Japanese descent living in Peru, The majority are descendants of pre-war immigrants.\n\nUnlike many other countries in Latin America, most Japanese immigrants did not settle on farms and plantations in Peru. They were able to move around to seek better opportunities and many migrated to the cities. Some worked for Japanese proprietors or started their own small businesses. By 1930, 45 percent of all Japanese in Peru ran small businesses in Lima. As in California, economic conflicts with local businesses quickly arose. The Eighty Percent Law passed in 1932 required that at least 80 percent of shop employees be non-Asian Peruvians. Furthermore, the Immigration Law of 1936 prohibited citizenship to children of alien parents, even if they were born in Peru. Peru was hardly the only country in the New World to take such actions. The United States prohibited citizenship for Asians at its inception in 1790, and reiterated it for Japanese in 1908 and 1924.\n\nIn 1940, an earthquake destroyed the city of Lima. By this time the community of Japanese and their wives and children was about 30,000 in Peru. Rumors spread that Japanese were looting.[1] As a result, some 650 Japanese houses were attacked and destroyed in Lima, an event resonating with the attack on Koreans in Japan at the time of the 1923 Kanto earthquake. Other harsh measures against Japanese-Peruvians followed. For example, in 1940 it was decreed that Japanese-Peruvians who went abroad to study in Japan would lose Peruvian citizenship.\n\nIn 1941, Peru broke off diplomatic relations with Japan after the Pearl Harbor attack and social and legal discrimination towards Japanese-Peruvians increased. All Japanese community institutions were disbanded, Japanese-language publications prohibited, and gatherings of more than three Japanese could constitute spying (Peru Simpo 1975 in Takenaka 2004:92). Japanese were not allowed to open businesses, and those who had a business were forced to auction them off. Japanese-owned deposits in Peruvian banks were frozen (Takenaka 2004:92). By 1942, Japanese were not even allowed to lease land (enacting laws jointly with the United States) (Gerbi 1943 in Takenaka 2004:92). The freedom of Japanese to travel outside their home communities was also restricted (Takenaka 2004:92).\n\nThese draconian measures were the result of agreements among the foreign ministers of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, the United States, Uruguay, and Venezuela in meetings in Rio de Janeiro. To bolster the security of all North and South America, they also recommended (1) the incarceration of dangerous enemy aliens, (2) the prevention of the descendants of enemy nationals to abuse their rights of citizenship to do things like criticize the government, (3) the regulation of international travel by enemy aliens and their families, and (4) the prevention of all acts of potential political aggression by enemy aliens, such as espionage, sabotage, and subversive propaganda (Gardiner 1981: 17).\n\n27 Japanese schools were founded in Peru (before the Second World War), which used school curricula created especially for overseas Japanese.\nThe first Japanese school in Peru was founded in 1908 inside the Santa Barbara in the province of Canete. \nMany Japanese immigrants, with enough economic resources (or, in some cases, with little money but many children), could afford to send their children to Japan to study. \nThis \"exodus\" of children prompted Andes Jiho newspaper to suggest, in 1914, the foundation of a local Japanese school in Lima in order to decrease the number of children who were sent to Japan to study. \nSix years later, in 1920, Lima Nikko was founded, which was the most important school in the Japanese society in Peru, because it was the first Japanese school with authorization to operate in Latin America given by the Ministry of Education of Japan. \nIn Lima Nikko, as well as other local Japanese schools, classes were given both in Japanese and Spanish, and teaching, especially, Japanese history and culture.\n\nPeru's current Japanese international school is Asociación Academia de Cultura Japonesa in Surco, Lima.\n\nAccording to Gardiner (in Hirabayashi and Yano 2006: 160), 2,264 Latin Americans of Japanese descent were deported to the United States in 1942. Among those, at least 1,800 people were from Peru. Those Japanese who were on a “blacklist” at the American embassy in Peru were kidnapped and deported at gunpoint by the Peruvian police to internment camps in Texas and New Mexico. These deported “Japanese” included many people born in Peru (Gardiner 1981: 14-15; Hirabayashi and Kikumura-Yano 2007: 157). At these camps, the Japanese-Peruvians were joined by some 500 Japanese immigrants and their children from eleven other Latin American nations, (i.e., Bolivia,[2] Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama).[3]\nIt is hard today to discern the precise reasons for these deportations. Patriotic wartime hysteria and political pressure from the United States were major contributing factors, but these simply added to the already extensive patterns of discrimination found in Peru. According to California Democratic congressman Xavier Becerra, one motive behind this action was to use these people as bargaining chips. Becerra and members of the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Latin Americans of Japanese Descent Act (S 381 and H.R. 662) claim that some 800 Japanese Latin Americans in these camps were sent to Japan in exchange for captured American soldiers.[4] However, substantive evidence that these exchanges actually took place remains to be documented.\n\nLife in the camps was not only a physical and economic struggle for Japanese-Peruvians, it also involved conflict with both non-Japanese Americans and Japanese Americans. Physically, the internment camps in the United States were like prisons, with residents surrounded by barbed-wire fences with armed guards. Physical conditions, especially at first, were stark. Each camp housed about 10,000 people, and conditions were often crowded. However, the residents gradually organized themselves, and by the end of the war something of a community had grown in each camp. There were newspapers, amateur theaters, schools, and sports teams. Many people had jobs, such as cooks, janitors, or health-care workers. As time passed, some Japanese were given a chance to be released temporarily from the camps to engage in agricultural work in local areas.\nBut these opportunities were mostly limited to Japanese Americans, most of whom were either first-generation Japanese or their Nisei second-generation children born in the United States. They knew almost nothing about Peru or the Japanese Peruvians, and showed little interest in learning more. The feelings seemed mutual. This was especially true for the Nisei, most of whom thought of themselves simply as Americans or Peruvians and identified with the cultural and social values of their respective host nations. The Japanese minority from Latin America, then, was a minority even in the internment camps.\n\nItalian, German and Japanese residents of Latin America leaving\na temporary internment camp in the Panama Canal Zone to join \ntheir male relatives in U.S. internment camps. April 7, 1942.\nToward the end of the war the War Relocation Authority asked all internees over the age of 18—this time including Japanese from Peru—if they were loyal to the United States, and would defend the country against Japan if called upon to do so. Many of the Issei (first generation immigrants), who had been denied American citizenship because of their race, agonized at the prospect of facing parents, friends, and relatives in Japan at gunpoint. However, if they refused to declare loyalty to America they could become stateless. Some second generation Nisei, too, were suspicious of a government that had taken away their rights as American citizens. Not surprisingly, Japanese Peruvians, whose only American experience was their internment, were equally, if not more, hostile. By 1943, after many Japanese Americans had proved loyal to the US by enlisting, the US began drafting Japanese-American men including those who had been denied most of the rights enjoyed by US citizens and been imprisoned. As a result, by the end of the war more than 33,000 Japanese-American men and women had served in the American armed forces.\nThe West Coast exclusion orders that had barred Japanese Americans from living on the coast were terminated in December, 1944, and the last camp was closed in March 1946. Although no provisions were made to compensate them for the losses they incurred during the war or as a result of internment (except for the $25 that each was given when leaving the camps), Japanese-Americans were free to go anywhere in the country. Many returned to the West Coast. But Japanese-Peruvians who were detained in the United States were neither allowed to return to Peru until 1948. Nor were their belongings returned to them by the Peruvian government following return. Although a few managed to return to Latin America, many were either deported to Japan or reentered the United States from Mexico and applied for a visa to stay in the United States.\nIn 1988, over 110,000 Japanese Americans who were interned during the war received an official apology from the American government and $20,000 compensation for being incarcerated. However, Japanese Latin Americans who were interned received no apology or compensation. This was because when they were deported from Peru, their passports were taken away by the Peruvian government, and they were classified as \"illegal aliens\" upon their arrival in the States. Being neither U.S. citizens nor permanent residents at that time, they failed to qualify for reparations even though the majority eventually became American citizens after the war. Finally, after a class-action lawsuit, in June 1998 American-interned Latin Americans received an official apology from the U.S. government and nominal compensation of $5000. However, only about 800 Latin Americans accepted this offer, the others simply rejecting it outright.\nAs mentioned, in summer 2007 a US Senate committee formed a commission to investigate the relocation, internment, and deportation of Latin Americans of Japanese descent during World War II. It estimated that the cost of the investigation would be about $500,000. The sponsors included Senators Daniel Inouye and Daniel Akaka from Hawaii, Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski from Alaska, Carl Levin from Michigan, Patrick Leahy from Vermont, and Congressmen, Xavier Becerra, Dan Lungren, and Mike Honda of California and Chris Cannon of Utah. The investigation was originally initiated in 2006 by the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Latin Americans of Japanese Descent Act. It remains to be seen if the commission will come up with a solution that is acceptable to both the US government and the Latin American Japanese victims.\n\nThere were around 26,000 immigrants of Japanese nationality in Peru in 1941, the year of the Japanese Attack on Pearl Harbor, marking the beginning of the Pacific war campaign for the United States of America in World War II. \nAfter the Japanese air raids on Pearl Harbor and the Philippines, the U.S Office of Strategic Services (OSS), formed during World War II to coordinate secret espionage activities against the Axis Powers for the branches of the United States Armed Forces and the United States State Department, were alarmed at the large Japanese Peruvian community living in Peru, and were also wary of the increasing new arrivals of Japanese nationals to Peru.\n\nFearing the Empire of Japan could sooner or later decide to invade the Republic of Peru and use the southern American country as a landing base for its troops, and its nationals living there as foreign agents against the US, in order to open another military front in the American Pacific, the U.S. government quickly negotiated with Lima a political-military alliance agreement in 1942; 1,799\n\nThis political-military alliance provided Peru with new military technology such as military aircraft, tanks, modern infantry equipment, and new boats for the Peruvian Navy, as well as new American bank loans and new investments in the Peruvian economy.\n\nIn return, the Americans ordered the Peruvians to track, identify and create ID files for all the Japanese Peruvians living in Peru. Later, at the end of 1942 and during all of 1943 and 1944, the Peruvian government on behalf of the U.S. Government and the OSS organized and started the massive arrests, without warrants and without judicial proceedings or hearings, and the deportation of almost all the Japanese Peruvian community to several American internment camps run by the U.S. Justice Department in the states of Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Georgia and Virginia.\n\nThe enormous groups of Japanese Peruvian forced exiles were initially placed amongst the Japanese-Americans who had been excluded from the US west coast; later they were interned in the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) facilities in Crystal City, Texas; Kenedy, Texas; and Santa Fe, New Mexico The Japanese-Peruvians were kept in these \"alien detention camps\" for more than two years before, through the efforts of civil rights attorney Wayne M. Collins, being offered \"parole\" relocation to the labor-starved farming community in Seabrook, New Jersey. The interned Japanese Peruvian \"nisei\" in the United States were further separated from the \"issei,\" in part because of distance between the internment camps and in part because the interned nisei knew almost nothing about their parents' homeland and language.\n\nThe deportation of Japanese Peruvians to the United States also involved expropriation without compensation of their property and other assets in Peru. At war's end, only 79 Japanese Peruvian citizens returned to Peru, and about 400 remained in the United States as \"stateless\" refugees. The interned Peruvian \"nisei\" who became naturalized American citizens would consider their children \"sansei,\" meaning three generations from the grandparents who had left Japan for Peru.\n\nAlthough anti-Japanese discrimination in Peru was among the worst in Latin America, in 1990 Alberto Fujimori was elected President, and was reelected in 1995. He was the first person not only of Japanese descent, but of Asian descent, to be elected president outside Asia after Cheddi Jagan of Guyana. In late 2000 Fujimori’s administration was rocked by scandal, and accusations of corruption and human rights violations. While Fujimori was visiting Japan, the Peruvian authorities indicted him. Fujimori’s resignation was announced while he was in Japan. Receiving a faxed resignation letter, the Peruvian Congress refused to accept his resignation, and instead removed him from office. It then barred him from holding any elective office for 10 years and the Congress requested the Japanese government to deport Fujimori to Peru for investigation of his crimes.\n\nWhile Japan was negotiating his relocation, in spite of the 10-year ban, in 2005 Fujimori sought to run in the presidential election of 2006, but the Peruvian authorities officially disqualified him. After traveling to Chile in 2005, Fujimori was detained by the Chilean authorities. He was released from prison in 2006 but placed under house arrest. The Peruvian government formally requested extradition to face human rights and corruption charges, but the Chilean government rejected the request in 2007 (his extradition is still being decided in the courts). In summer 2007, Fujimori tried to run for a seat in Japan’s Upper House. Running under the banner of the small People’s New Party, he called himself “the last samurai” in campaign videos, and pledged to restore traditional values to government. His 51,411 votes fell far short of winning. These political incidents seem to have set back social progress for people of Japanese descent in Peru.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Peruvian economy suffered a number of setbacks, and inflation soared as high as 2000% a year at times. In Japan, however, with the economic boom many factories were short of labor. Around this period, the average wage for an unskilled laborer in Japan was about $20,000 per year (Tsuda 1999: 693). This was over 40 times the minimum wage in Peru, and over eight times the salary of many in management.[5] These economic conditions led many people from Peru to seek work in Japan.\n\nJapanese companies in the 1980s hesitated to hire people of different ethnic backgrounds. It was felt that such people might not adapt well to Japanese labor practices. The Japanese government proposed avoiding some of these problems by employing Nikkei (people of Japanese descent born and raised outside Japan) returnees from Latin America, who, it was thought, shared racial and cultural affinities with Japanese. The government issued special work permits to people of Japanese descent going back three generations. These guest workers are commonly called dekasegi[6] (lit. “migratory earners”) workers in Japan.\nThe results were not quite those anticipated. In the case of Peru, in 1992 Victor Aritomi, the Peruvian ambassador to Japan, said that although it was reported that among the almost 40,000 Japanese-Peruvians—that is, half of the Japanese-Peruvian population—who were then living in Japan, only 15,000 at most were “real” Japanese descendants. The rest—that is, almost two thirds of the “Japanese-Peruvians” in Japan at the time—not only had no primordial tie with Japan, but many did not even “look” particularly Asian.\n\nPart of the reason for this was that many dekasegi workers of Japanese descent in Peru had non-Japanese spouses. Since the Japanese government had issued work permits to nuclear family members of dekasegi workers in 1990, the actual composition of the group was not limited to people of Japanese descent.\nAccording to Yanagida (1997: 297), about 30% of Nikkei couples in Peru with a spouse of Latin American origin had dekasegi experiences in 1995. This compares with only 9% of couples in which both partners were Nikkei who had dekasegi experiences at that time. Hearing of the high wages in Japan, many non-Nikkei Peruvians also wished to go to Japan to work. These non-Nikkei people used one of three strategies to obtain dekasegi work permits: (1) become a spouse of a Nikkei, (2) become an adopted child of a Nikkei family, or (3) become Nikkei through use of false or spurious documents—usually Japanese koseki (the Japanese registration of one’s birth and parentage). According to a Spanish correspondent in Tokyo, Montse Watkins, her non-Nikkei Peruvian interviewees paid between one and three thousand US dollars to “become” an adopted child of a Nikkei Peruvian (Watkins 1994: 112, 131, 135). The price of adoption differed depending on the family; however several thousand dollars seems to have been common.\n\nIn 1990 one municipal office of a township in Lima received 2,000 adoption registration documents and 500 marriage certificates—including one woman who adopted 60 children in one year (Watkins 1994: 131). Though it is obvious what is going on, the mayor claims that there is no way to stop these irregularities as these Nikkei are not breaking the law: they are free to adopt children or marry who they wish. Even selling and purchasing old koseki birth documents (say, at auction) is not illegal: antique dealers or collectors may simply wish to buy old documents, or papers from a foreign nation written in a foreign language (Fuchigami 1995: 26). Some people who newly and successfully became Nikkei in this way went to Japan to work. Others, however, have been swindled; criminals take their money but never produce the promised documents.\n\nOne social issue centers around the “Nikkei-ness” of members of Japanese-Peruvian society. Due to racial discrimination in Peru, some people of Japanese-descent left the Japanese-Peruvian community and assimilated in Peruvian society (Aoki 1997: 96). However, others have remained, worked hard for over a century to maintain Nikkei culture and society, and strived to be both model citizens of Peru and good Japanese.\n\nIn 1998 With New strict laws from the Japanese immigration many fake-nikkei were deported or went back to Peru. and The requirements to bring Japanese descendents were more strict including documents as \"zairyuushikaku-ninteisyoumeisyo\" or Certificate of Eligibility for Resident that probes the Japanese blood line of the applicant.\n\nWith the onset of the global recession, Among the expatriate communities in Japan, Peruvians accounted for the smallest share of those who returned to their homelands after the global recession began in 2008. People returning from Japan also made up the smallest share of those applying for assistance under the new law. As of the end of November 2013, only three Peruvians who had returned from Japan had received reintegration assistance. The law provides some attractive benefits, but most Peruvians (At present 2015, there are 60,000 Peruvians in Japan ) who have regular jobs in Japan weren’t interested in going home.\n\nPeruvians in Japan have come together to offer support for Japanese victims of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck in March 2011. In the wake of that disaster, the town of Minamisanriku in Miyagi Prefecture lost all but two of its fishing vessels. Peruvians raised money to buy the town new boats as a service to Japan and to express their gratitude for the hospitality received in Japan.\n\nIn 1909 Nipponjin (The Japanese people) was founded, a handwritten newspaper edited by someone with the surname Seki, who was a graduate of the University of Waseda, and who, as a free immigrant, worked at the Cerro de Pasco Corporation in La Oroya. The newspaper appeared about four times. It was written on sulfite paper or “office paper,” which was similar to the wrapping paper used in small businesses. The edition consisted of only one copy of thirty to forty pages that was held together by a string that served as a fastener of sorts.\n\nBetween 1910 and 1913, when 2473 Japanese arrived in Peru, there appeared another handwritten newspaper that was printed and distributed on mimeograph paper: Jiritsu (The Independent), whose format was 18x23 centimeters with each edition averaging some seventy-two pages, which also were fastened together with a string. Its printing on mimeograph made it possible for greater distribution than its predecessor. It ended in 1913, the same year that the emperor Taisho, grandfather of the current Japanese emperor, celebrated one year on the throne.\n\nIn June 1921, Nippi Shimpo (Japanese-Peruvian News) was published by Jutaro Tanaka, Teisuke Okubo, Noboru Kitahara, Kohei Mitsumori and Chijiwa.\n\nJanuary 1, 1929, Perú Nichi Nichi Shimbun (Daily News of Peru), with the goal of taking part in the debate. It was understood that the Japanese readership should neither be polarized nor silent witnesses in the polemic that had sustained the other two newspapers. This new publication was directed by Susumu Sakuray.\n\nJutaro Tanaka, one of the publishers of Nippi Shimpo, managed to merge three newspapers and publish Lima Nippo (Daily Bulletin of Lima). He argued that for such a small community it was not necessary to waste such efforts publishing three newspapers; rather, it was better to save supplies and offer the readership one good newspaper. This is how the newspaper was born in July 1929; Tanaka himself was named manager of the new company, and Sakuray, the former manager of Andes Jiho and Perú Nichi Nichi Shimbun, was named editor.\n\nIn 1929 Peru Jiho (Chronicles of Peru), began to circulate in the city, and it was supported by those who had opposed the merger of the original three newspapers. Kuninosuke Yamamoto assumed the leadership for two years, and in 1931, it passed to Hisao Ikeyama, a graduate of the University of Tokyo, who, thanks to his editorials that made the newspaper competitive, managed to stamp his own personal seal on the newspaper. Thereafter, a portion of the paper was published in Spanish, while some of the first Peruvians of Japanese descent worked on the newspaper, including Víctor Tateishi, Luis Okamoto, Julio Matsumura, Alberto Mochizuki, Enrique Shibao and Chihito Saito.\n\nIn July 1941, Susumu Sakuray, who had earlier left the paper Lima Nippo, published the Peru Hochi (Reports of Peru), which now brought the number of newspapers circulating in the community back to three. It was World War II, and there was great interest in getting the most recent news coming out of Europe and then Asia. However, when Japan became involved in the war and Peru declared war against Japan, the Peruvian government closed down and confiscated Japanese newspapers. The government also deported the major players in the Japanese community, including those Japanese who had become Peruvian citizens, as well as Peruvians of Japanese descent.\n\nFor almost a decade there were no Japanese-language newspapers circulating in Peru until July 1, 1950, when Peru Shimpo (Recent News from Peru) appeared, which remains in circulation today, and whose publication was authorized by Ministerial Resolution 107 of July 1, 1948. Peru Shimpo, just like Andes Jiho in 1913, was a product of donations gathered from among the members of the Japanese community. The organization for fundraising, as well as the donations lasted two years. With the proceeds the editors purchased machinery and the necessary typography, both of which arrived in Peru in February 1950.\nDiro Hasegawa was elected president of the board of directors, Masao Sawada as manager and Hiromu Sakuray as administrator and translator. The head of workshop was Kaname Ito, while some of the writers were Junji Kimura, Giei Higa, and Chihito Saito. Saito was also in charge of the Spanish section of the newspaper.\n\nAfter a year in circulation, Peru Shimpo Press acquired office space in Lima downtown. At the end of the 1990s, the Japanese philanthropist, Ryoichi Jinnai, donated to the press a second-hand offset machine that remains in use today. At the start of the new century, the press relocated to Bellavista, Callao.\nThe publication was printed in the standard format and had four pages. In the beginning moveable type characterized the process. Later, the publication increased to eight pages. In 2006 a new design system was introduced along with color pages and in 2010 Peru Shimpo became a tabloid.\nIn 2006 Peru Shimpo modernized its design and introduced color. Alan García, the president of Peru, sent prepared remarks to the Nikkei community that was published there.\n\nOn October 1, 1955, which is to say, five years after the start date of Peru Shimpo, a second Japanese newspaper appeared in the post-war era: Peru Asahi Shimbun (Morning in Peru). Ryoko Kiyohiro was in charge of editing the Japanese sections and Víctor Hayashi the Spanish ones. The newspaper circulated until March 1964 when it shut down due to financial problems.\n\nPrensa Nikkei (Nikkei Press) appeared in 1985 and remains as the only Spanish-language tabloid in circulation.\nAfter the ravages of World War II, the Peruvian Nikkei community continued with its activities, mainly through the practice of traditions inherited from their ancestors. Thus, festivities such as the celebration of the New Year (Shinnenkai), Girls' Day (Hinamatsuri), Children's Day (Kodomo no Hi), Matsuri, Buddhist festivals such as the Obon and Ohigan, among others, continue preserved in the Nikkei community.\n\nThe Nikkei in Peru have also known how to preserve precisely some of the customs and traditions brought by their parents and grandparents, and that they are part of their natural heritage. At the same time, Peruvians of Japanese descent, previously seen as a \"closed\" community, are today citizens who perform in all fields. Their roots and origins are part of their memories and experiences that undoubtedly enrich their identity as Peruvians. Currently, the Peruvian-Japanese are one of the largest Nikkei communities in the world and the second largest in Latin America. Japanese-Peruvians mainly inhabit the central Peruvian coast (Lima and Trujillo has the most of them) and in some villages in the Amazon area.\n\nThe cuisine of Peru is a heterogeneous mixture of the diverse cultural influences that enriched the South American country. An important influence was the Japanese immigrants and their descendants through the combination of Japanese and Peruvian cuisine known as Nikkei cuisine which has become a gastronomic sensation in many countries.\n\nThe particular roots of this fusion lies in the importance of fresh products, encouraged by the prosperous fishing industry of Peru, the Japanese knew how to use fresh fish and mix it perfectly with the ceviche, which is the Peruvian flag dish. As well with the Chifa (fusion cuisine that emerged from the Chinese community in Peru), Japanese dishes were combined with the flavors and cooking techniques of the indigenous Peruvians. Thus, fresh fish was combined with limes, corn, chili, cassava and the many varieties of potatoes, basic products in the Peruvian pantry.\n\nThe most notable promoter of Nikkei cuisine is perhaps Nobu Matsuhisa, who has been using elements of this fusion cuisine since the late 1980s in his different restaurants around the world. Nobu, as he is known in the culinary field, although he was an early exponent of Nikkei cuisine has only recently been picked up by several high-profile chefs in Europe, thanks in part to the success of Peruvian food throughout the continent. The most famous of these chefs is Ferran Adrià, he opened a restaurant in Barcelona, where the Nikkei kitchen is used as the basis for a range of culinary experimentation. In London there are also Nikkei restaurants, like that of restaurateur Kurt Zdesar, which is reaping very good reviews. However, Lima is still the home of Nikkei cuisine, which is the best place to enjoy the best that this fusion cuisine has to offer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32496324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32496324", "title": "Jimmy &amp; Rosalynn Carter Work Project", "text": "Jimmy &amp; Rosalynn Carter Work Project\n\nThe Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project - formerly the Jimmy Carter Work Project (JCWP) - is an annual home building blitz organized by Habitat for Humanity International and its affiliates. It generally takes place in the United States one year, and an international location the next. President Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter helped Habitat volunteers renovate the 19-unit building, and media coverage brought attention to Habitat, which had been founded in 1976 in Americus, Georgia, a short distance from Carter's hometown of Plains, Georgia. Even though President Carter has said repeatedly he never intended to start an annual project, the following year the Carters returned to the same site to finish the renovation work. On Oct. 10, 2013, as part of the 30th annual project, the Carters returned to the building and met with families living there.\n\nBy 2013, the Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project had helped more than 3,800 families move into safe, affordable shelter in 14 countries. Over the years, more than 89,000 volunteers from all over the world have signed up to build alongside the Carters.\n\nThe Carter Work Projects started modestly and built slowly. Early projects were held in the United States, and were relatively small compared to later years.\n\nChicago, Illinois: Following the first two trips to New York City, the Carters moved on to Chicago, where they helped build a four-unit complex on the city's West Side. They were joined by their daughter, Amy, and celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary — July 7, 1986 — on the build site. In years to come, Carter children and grandchildren would frequently volunteer.\n\nCharlotte, North Carolina: Habitat founder Millard Fuller called Charlotte \"The Miracle on 19th Street,\" and comedian Bob Hope was among the volunteers who came to build 14 houses in Charlotte's Optimist Park area. This marked the first year the project was held in tandem with a worldwide Habitat House-Raising Week, in which an additional 300 homes were begun.\n\nAtlanta, Georgia, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: The 1988 build was the first held in two separate locations — a 200-volunteer, 10-unit renovation project in North Philadelphia, and a 1,000- volunteer, 20-house project in Atlanta's Edgewood neighborhood.\n\nMilwaukee, Wisconsin: Plagued with steady, chilly rain, the Milwaukee build was in danger of falling behind schedule. During a live TV interview, President Carter asked for help from local roofers, who started showing up in droves the following morning. They roofed all the houses in one day, and the Milwaukee affiliate received a huge boost in donations and attention that carried it forward. More than 1,000 volunteers finished six homes, and renovated eight others. The broader House-Raising Week in 1989 involved the startup, completion, or rehab of 500 homes.\n\nTijuana, Mexico, and San Diego, California: By venturing across the border, the Carter Work Project became international for the first time. Nearly 2,000 volunteers lived in a four-acre tent city and divided their time between Tijuana and San Diego; the construction site in Tijuana lacked electricity and running water. President Carter called the build \"the most complicated and the most gratifying\" so far. The project raised 100 homes in Tijuana and seven in San Diego.\n\nMiami, Florida: Miami's Liberty City erupted in violent riots in 1980 that decimated the neighborhood, and President Carter toured the devastation while in office. More than a decade later he came back to personally rebuild, working on 14 houses and a day care center. \"I really enjoyed how all the volunteers, both white and black, came together and helped build for the project,\" said homeowner Virginia Marshal, who was still living in her Habitat home more than 20 years later.\n\nWashington, D.C., and Baltimore, Maryland: \"Habitat is not a charity organization. We don't believe that the best way to help people is to give them a Santa Claus gift,\" President Carter said at the groundbreaking ceremony in Washington, D.C. After five days of blitz building, with an international pool of volunteers hammering away, 20 new homeowners in Baltimore and Washington were ready to move in.\n\nWinnipeg, Manitoba, and Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Canadians from more than 50 communities poured into Winnipeg and Waterloo to build 28 new homes in the first completely international Carter Work Project.\n\nEagle Butte, South Dakota: President Carter specifically asked to build on a Native American reservation, so the 11th Carter Work Project headed to rural South Dakota. Volunteers slept in tents pitched on the local high school's football field, while the Carters stayed nearby in a traditional teepee provided by the Sioux Indians. Emmanuel Joseph Red Bear II said it was \"a dream come true\" to build his own home alongside the Carters. Despite heavy storms, the volunteers built 30 new homes on the reservation.\n\nWatts, Los Angeles, California: Although the Carters concentrated as always on building one home — for Max and Toni Nettles — they hammered ceremonial nails into all 21 houses along East Santa Ana Boulevard in Watts. More than 1,500 volunteers from 39 states and five countries worked at the project, which was accompanied by an accelerated build at five other southern California affiliates.\n\nVac, Hungary: As President, Carter had returned Hungary's national crown jewels, which had been taken by the Nazis and later confiscated by U.S. forces to keep them out of Soviet hands. When the project looked toward expanding into Europe, he suggested Hungary. The picturesque small town of Vac (pronounced \"Votz\"), in a bend of the Danube River a little north of Budapest, was the \"most beautiful\" project site, he would later say. An international team of 500 volunteers built 10 houses.\n\nEastern Kentucky and Tennessee: The Appalachian project \"Hammering in the Hills\" had beautiful backdrops, but the poverty there ran deep. Households in the eight communities served had an average income of less than $13,000 a year, and more than 16 percent lacked indoor plumbing. Among the volunteers participating during the week: First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. The JCWP and affiliated construction around the region built more than 200 new homes, some in partnership with the Federation of Appalachian Housing Enterprises.\n\nHouston, Texas: The heat soared well into triple digits — a thermometer read 110 degrees on the house where Rosalynn Carter was working in Houston. But the building went on. \"I think just the fact that people have a home does something for their self-esteem,\" she said at the site. President Carter added, \"They often get new ambition. They have seen success, and they have seen a promise kept at least one time in their lives.\" About 6,000 volunteers built 100 homes. That included 25 local prison inmates, six of whom were hired by the local Habitat affiliate after the completion of their sentences.\n\nThe Philippines: The theme in Tagalog was \"Magbayanihan Tayo — \"Let us build together\" — for the largest and most complicated Carter Work Project ever, with 293 houses at six sites and 14,000 volunteers. Filipino media covered the project relentlessly; more than 150 journalists jockeyed behind a fence to get shots of the Carters as they built simple homes made of concrete blocks with galvanized metal roofs and louvered glass windows.\n\nNew York, New York; Jacksonville, Florida; and Sumter County, Georgia: \"I didn't think we'd come a second year. I never had any concept it would expand,\" President Carter told volunteers when the project returned to New York. The Carters and volunteers built 157 houses, including Habitat's 100,000th house in Harlem, and then its 100,001st house in Plains, Georgia, their hometown. Among the celebrities lending a hand: actress Susan Sarandon, who said, \"It's a gift to participate in something like this.\" \n\nSouth Korea. President Carter first visited South Korea in 1950 as a young submarine officer, and later returned as president and humanitarian. The project's main location, Asan, was dubbed Reconciliation Village, and Carter, in his remarks to volunteers, spoke to that theme: \"One word I've heard in South Korea more than any other word is 'reconciliation.' I look on Habitat for Humanity as a movement for reconciliation, a breaking down of barriers… between the rich and the poor.\" Nine thousand volunteers — including South Korean President Kim Dae-Jung — built 136 houses.\n\nDurban, Kwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa: Less than a decade after the end of legalized racism in South Africa, blacks and whites built side by side in a neighborhood that had been gutted by the government during apartheid. At the opening ceremony, President Carter said he, too, had grown up in a segregated society, and felt a connection to South Africa. \"Our family has always been close to this great country,\" he said. \"We'll be working hand in hand together.\" Volunteers at the first African project included the presidents of Kenya, Mozambique and Malawi, and Gracia Machel, wife of former South African president Nelson Mandela.\n\nLaGrange and Valdosta, Georgia; and Anniston, Alabama: Heavy rains created ankle-deep mud and alternated with a brutal summer sun as the Carters worked at three build sites, all of them less than 200 miles from their home in Plains, Georgia. Volunteers built 92 houses in 2003.\n\nPuebla and Veracruz, Mexico: About 4,000 volunteers built 150 homes in the two Mexican cities.\n\nBenton Harbor and Detroit, Michigan; and Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Volunteers built 280 homes on this dual-country build, which was documented by the DIY Network in the series \"Habitat Homes: Jimmy Carter Work Project\". When volunteers showed up Monday morning at the Benton Harbor build site, they found a Labrador mix puppy with no owner. The whole crew adopted her and named her Rosy, for Rosalynn Carter; a volunteer eventually gave her a permanent home.\n\nLonavala, Maharashtra, India: In a village not far from where Lillian Carter had once volunteered for the Peace Corps, her son welcomed 2,000 volunteers to build. Among them: actor Brad Pitt, actor John Abraham, cricket star Steve Waugh, and former Miss World Diana Hayden. \"I think it's been fun for everyone to have such high-profile people on site,\" said HFHI CEO Jonathan Reckford. \"But their participation helps draw more attention to what Habitat is doing, not only in India, but all across the world.\" \n\nLos Angeles and San Pedro, California: Although known for new home construction, the Carter Work Project, like Habitat, has embraced new ways of helping people and of mobilizing against poverty housing. In 2007, volunteers repaired 35 Los Angeles homes as part of Habitat's A Brush With Kindness program, in addition to building 30 townhomes and condos.\n\nU.S. Gulf Coast: During the 25th annual build, nearly 20 Habitat affiliates along the Gulf Coast built new housing in areas that had been hit by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. More than 2,000 volunteers helped build houses with 250 families. The project was officially renamed the Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project. \"That's how it always should have been,\" said President Carter. \"She's been my life partner, she's been on every one of these builds right along with me.\" \n\nMekong River Region(China, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam): The Mekong River begins in China and flows south through Laos, Thailand and Cambodia before finding the sea in Vietnam; in 2009 the Carter Work Project built 166 homes throughout all five countries simultaneously. Temperatures in Vietnam climbed into the 90s and many volunteers suffered from the heat, while the weather in Sichuan, China, was so cold that volunteers clustered around portable heaters to get warm.\n\nWashington, D.C.; Baltimore, Maryland; Twin Cities, Minnesota; and Birmingham, Alabama: In honor of President Carter's 86th birthday, volunteers built and rehabbed 86 homes in four locations in 2010. Among the volunteers was President Carter's former vice president, Walter Mondale, who joined him in Minnesota. The President also joined the Blind Boys of Alabama onstage at the opening ceremony on World Habitat Day to sing \"If I Had a Hammer.\" \n\nLéogâne, Haiti: Following the devastating 2010 earthquake, the Carters committed to two consecutive projects in Haiti, a country that even before the earthquake was the poorest in the Western hemisphere. Families had been living in flimsy shelters in a sugar cane field in stifling heat, and were excited as their simple, sturdy new homes went up. Volunteers stayed at a camp called Christianville and were joined by country stars Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood, who not only swung hammers but also entertained the volunteers. At a Veterans Day ceremony on the site, President Carter, a U.S. Navy veteran, held his hard hat over his heart during the playing of \"The Star-Spangled Banner.\" \n\nLéogâne, Haiti: The Carters and even more volunteers returned to Christianville and Léogâne to build houses alongside workers from Haven, an Irish nonprofit. On Sunday morning, President Carter held Sunday school in the mess tent for the volunteers, just as he has for years in Plains. At the worksite, many volunteers from 2011 had tearful reunions with Haitian homeowners they had worked with. Habitat and Haven together built 155 new homes in Haiti during the 2012 project.\n\nOakland and San Jose, California; Denver, Colorado; New York, New York; and Union Beach, New Jersey: For their 30th project, the Carters worked coast to coast, winding up where it all started, at the Mascot Flats apartment building on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. In Oakland on Oct. 7, 2013, 300 volunteers sang \"Happy Birthday\" to President Carter, who had turned 89 on Oct. 1.\n\nThe 31st annual work project will be held in the Dallas/Fort Worth area of Texas, beginning October 5.\n\nThe 32nd annual work project was scheduled to be held in Pokhara, Nepal, November 1–6, 2015. It was cancelled on October 8, 2015 because of fuel shortages and civil unrest after the announcement of a new constitution.\n\nHabitat for Humanity's 33rd Carter Work Project will be in Memphis, Tennessee, Aug. 21-26, 2016.\n\nHabitat for Humanity's 34th Carter Work Project is scheduled to be held in Edmonton, Alberta and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, July 9–14, 2017.\n\nHabitat for Humanity's 35th Carter Work Project is scheduled to be held in St. Joseph County, Indiana, August 26-31st. \n"}
{"id": "40110525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40110525", "title": "Latvians in Lithuania", "text": "Latvians in Lithuania\n\nThe Latvian minority in Lithuania (, ) numbered 2,025 persons at the 2011 census, and at 0.07% of the total population of Lithuania, being the 9th biggest national minority. The Latvian national minority in Lithuania has a long history.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, 46.2% of Latvians speak Latvian as their mother tongue, while Lithuanian is native for 27.8%, Russian - 14.6% of Latvians. 3.95% of Latvians are bilingual in terms that they have 2 mother tongues.\n\nCities with a relatively significant Latvian proportion:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42254500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42254500", "title": "Lusaka Manifesto", "text": "Lusaka Manifesto\n\nThe Lusaka Manifesto (originally the Manifesto on Southern Africa) is a document created by the Fifth Summit Conference of East and Central African States which took place between 14 and 16 April 1969 in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia. Produced at a time when the Republic of South Africa and its affiliated white-ruled regimes in Mozambique, Rhodesia, and Angola were relatively strong but politically isolated, the \"Manifesto\" called upon them to relinquish white supremacy and minority rule and singled out apartheid South Africa for violation of human rights. In the \"Manifesto\", which was subsequently adopted both by the Organisation of African Unity and the United Nations, thirteen Heads of State offered dialogue with the rulers of these Southern African states under the condition that they accept basic principles of human rights and human liberties. They also threatened to support the various liberation wars if negotiations failed.\n\nThe \"Lusaka Manifesto\" represented one of two strategies to deal with white minority rule in Southern Africa: To try to contain violence, preserve the status quo, and improve the humanitarian situation little by little through diplomatic means, small reforms, and compromises. The other strategy, to wage independence wars, would eventually prevail.\n\nIn the late 1960s South Africa's apartheid regime became increasingly politically isolated, both internationally and continental. Under Prime Minister B.J. Vorster it developed the so-called \"outward-looking policy\", an effort to bind southern African countries economically, and in this way to discourage them from openly criticising its repressive internal politics. This policy first was openly opposed only by Tanzania under president Julius Nyerere and Zambia under Kenneth Kaunda, but their lobbying made the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) reject any further dialogue with South Africa.\n\nAt that time independence movements had been formed in all white-ruled territories of Southern Africa, either with an explicit commitment to guerrilla warfare and sabotage or recently having scaled their activities from passive resistance, petitioning, and lobbying to an openly armed struggle. The African National Congress (ANC) in South Africa had launched its military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) in 1961. It immediately executed several sabotage acts against the country's infrastructure. In South-West Africa SWAPO's paramilitary wing, the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN) was founded in 1962, its first military action occurred in Omugulugwombashe in 1966.\n\nYet South Africa was politically strong at the time of the declaration agreed upon in Lusaka. Its border states except Botswana were all ruled by white minorities. In the United States, National Security Study Memorandum number 39, issued by president Richard Nixon and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, had just reiterated that \"the Whites in southern Africa [are] there to stay\". Memorandum 39, nicknamed \"Tar baby memorandum\" for its reluctant acceptance of apartheid and minority rule in order to gain anti-communist allies in Southern Africa, strengthened South Africa's position internationally.\n\nPrime Minister Vorster had had a secret conversation with Kaunda for some time since 1968, eventually leading to the \"Manifesto\". A threat to reveal existence and content of this conversation was issued by Vorster to influence Kaunda's public presentation of South African politics. When Kaunda did not react, Vorster published the complete exchange and later in 1970 confirmed it in the South African parliament.\n\nThe \"Manifesto\" starts with a declaration on human rights and equality and specifically rejects racial discrimination, both the then existing White minority racism against Blacks and discrimination by Blacks against Whites, a widespread fear of the White minorities at that time. It further offers dialogue to the White regime in South Africa, stating that the signatories would \"negotiate rather than destroy, talk rather than kill\".\n\nFor Namibia, Mozambique, Rhodesia and Angola the \"Manifesto\" called for self-determination and the establishment of majority rule. For South Africa its tone was sharper, and its recommendations went much further, including the suggestion to expel South Africa from all international political and economic bodies. This distinction between the suggested treatment of South Africa and the other white-ruled territories also contained an acknowledgement of South Africa's status as an independent, sovereign UN member, while Namibia, Mozambique, Rhodesia and Angola were colonies without recognition as states.\n\nThe significance of the \"Lusaka Manifesto\" has been compared to that of the Magna Carta and the Freedom Charter. The liberalism expressed in it was in direct opposition to South African apartheid which saw rights and liberties of individual people as tantamount to communism, and as irreconcilable with its own nationalist policies.\n\nThe \"Manifesto\" was published in Britain in form of an advertisement, paid for by the Zambian government, in \"The Times\" and \"The Guardian\". It was endorsed by the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) and by the 24th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).\n\nThe OAU issued several other documents after the \"Lusaka Manifesto\" that concerned the situation in South Africa, for instance the \"Mogadishu Declaration\" of 1970 and the \"Dar es Salaam Declaration\" of 1974. They were mainly updates, without a real diversion from the \"Manifesto\" general direction, although, in reaction to South Africa's complete rejection of the original document, they are written in a decisively tenser tone and stress much more the support of armed liberation movements.\n\nNorth America and former colonial powers in Europe positively received the \"Lusaka Manifesto\", reportedly \"because Africa argued, not shouted\".\n\nThe manifesto was a document in the moderate line of thought on how to improve the situation of Blacks in Southern Africa. It acknowledged the right of all the whites who had settled in southern Africa to stay there. It recognized South Africa as a sovereign and independent state and proposed no changes of boundaries. It advocated boycott and isolation, rather than armed intervention or internal revolt, in South Africa. Above all, it urged negotiation and accepted that change could not come overnight.\nThe \"Lusaka Manifesto\" has been criticised for not involving any of the contemporary liberation movements and, more generally, of entrenching capitalism on the African continent rather than supporting the various socialist movements of that time.\n\nThe White South African regime rejected the document. The ANC was likewise opposed to the \"Lusaka Manifesto\" as in their view the declaration legitimised the apartheid regime, pronouncing its status as a sovereign and independent UN-recognised entity. They further criticised that the call for a peaceful resolution came at a time South Africa intervened militarily in Rhodesia, and that the Manifesto's wording artificially separated the liberation struggles in South Africa, South-West Africa, and Rhodesia. In 1971 the ANC stated that:\n\nIt is a tragedy that now—when black South Africa is launching an unflinching, full scale armed struggle against Vorster and his henchmen—African States [...] have seen it fit to have a 'dialogue' with white South Africa [...] If there should be a dialogue it should be between Voster and the real leaders of the people, Mandela, Sisulu, Mbeki, Kathrada, Fischer, Motsoaledi.\n\nANC's main disappointment, though, was that its armed struggle, and that of its likeminded liberation movements FRELIMO, MPLA, SWAPO, ZANU, and ZAPU was not directly supported and rather seen as a possible future legitimate action, even if it already was in full swing.\n\nIn the spirit of the \"Manifesto\", Namibia conducted the Turnhalle Constitutional Conference between 1975 and 1977, an event widely criticised for providing \"pseudo-reforms\" entrenching the racial segregation of Namibia's population, and indirectly reinforcing the economic and political power of the white population. Several black delegates, however, welcomed the start of institutionalised communication between the parties.\n\nRhodesia's Ian Smith entered into several round of talks with ZANU and ZAPU. These were, however, interspersed with military action, at times supported by South Africa. In 1975 the talks finally broke down, and the Frontline States supported armed liberation from 1976 onwards.\n\nAngola and Mozambique already were in a state of full-scale wars of independence, Angola since 1961 and Mozambique since 1964. The \"Manifesto\" made no difference to the developments in these countries. After a successful coup d'état in Portugal on 24 April 1974 the Portuguese colonial power collapsed, and Portuguese colonies were allowed to establish majority-rule governments. This development encouraged liberation movements in other white-ruled territories as well. Following the Alvor Agreement in January 1975 Angola became independent in November, ending its war of independence but starting a devastating civil war. Mozambique likewise became independent in 1975 and saw its own civil war from 1977 to 1992.\n\nOnly a few years after the \"Lusaka Manifesto\" the buffer of white-ruled countries north of South Africa disintegrated rapidly, forcing the apartheid regime to take a different course of politics. Mid 1976 uprisings in Soweto and Gulguleto brought the country to the brink of a civil war. The Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC), the predecessor of today's Southern African Development Community (SADC) was founded in 1980 in order to \"reduce member states' dependence, particularly, but not only, on apartheid South Africa\". The white rulers of South Africa eventually relinquished power to the black majority in 1994 but instead of acting on the moderate suggestions of the \"Manifesto\" faced independence wars in all affected countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "566882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566882", "title": "Lydia Cabrera", "text": "Lydia Cabrera\n\nLydia Cabrera (May 20, 1899 in Havana, Cuba – September 19, 1991 in Miami, Florida) was a Cuban anthropologist.\n\nCabrera was a Cuban writer and literary activist. She was an authority on Santería and other Afro-Cuban religions. During her lifetime she published over one hundred books; little if any of her work is available in English. Her most important book is \"El Monte\" (Spanish: \"The Wilderness\"), which was the first major anthropological study of Afro-Cuban traditions. Published in 1954, the book became a \"bible\" for Santeros who practice Santeria, a blend of Catholic teachings and native African religions that evolved among former African slaves in the Caribbean. She donated her research collection to the library of the University of Miami. A section in Guillermo Cabrera Infante's book \"Tres Tigres Tristes\" is written under Lydia Cabrera's name, in a comical rendition of her literary voice. She was one of the first writers to recognize and make public the richness of Afro-Cuban culture. She made valuable contributions in the areas of literature, anthropology, and ethnology.\n\nIn El Monte, Cabrera fully described the major Afro-Cuban religions: the Regla de Ocha (commonly known as Santeria) and the Ifa’ cult, which are both derived from traditional Yoruba religion; and Palo Monte, which originated in Central Africa.\nBoth the literary and anthropological perspectives on Cabrera’s work assume that she wrote about mainly oral, practical religions with only an “embryonic” written tradition. She is credited by literary critics for having transformed Afro-Cuban oral narratives into literature, which is, written works of art, while anthropologists rely on her accounts of oral information collected during interviews with santeros, babalaos, or paleros, and on her descriptions of religious ceremonies.\nThere is a dialectical relationship between Afro-Cuban religious writing and Cabrera’s work; she used a religious writing tradition that has now internalized her own ethnography.\n\nBorn in Havana in 1899 as the youngest of eight siblings, Cabrera came from a Cuban family of social and financial privilege in pre-revolutionary Cuba. Her father, Raimundo Cabrera, was a writer, lawyer, prominent man in society, and an advocate for Cuba's independence. Her mother, Elisa Marcaida Casanova, was a housewife and respected socialite. Her father was also the president of the first Cuban corporation, La Sociedad Económica de Amigos del País, founded in the eighteenth century. He owned a popular literary journal, \"Cuba y America\", where Lydia got her first experience as a writer. At the age of thirteen, Cabrera wrote a weekly anonymous column that appeared in her father's journal. She covered topics relevant to her specific community, such as wedding announcements, childbirths, or obituaries.\n\nThe family had many Afro-Cuban servants and child caretakers, through whom young Lydia learned about African folklore, stories, tradition, and religions. Like the majority of wealthy Cubans in the early 1900s, private tutors came to the home of the Cabreras to educate the children. For a short period of time, she attended the private school of Maria Luisa Dolz. At that time it was not socially acceptable for a woman to pursue a high school diploma, so Cabrera finished her secondary education on her own.\n\nBy 1927 Cabrera found herself wanting to make money on her own and she wanted to become independent of her family. She moved to Paris to study art and religion at L'Ecole du Louvre She studied drawing and painting in Paris with theatrical Russian exile Alexandra Exter. Cabrera lived in Paris for 11 years and returned home in 1938. After graduating from Ecole du Louvre, she chose not to become an artist as expected. Instead she chose to move back to Cuba to study Afro-Cuban culture, especially their traditions and folklore.\n\nIn 1936, while in Paris, she published her first book, \"Cuentos Negros\".\n\nFor almost all of her life, Cabrera possessed a large interest in Afro-Cuban culture. She had been introduced to their folklore at a very young age by her Afro-Cuban nanny and Afro-Cuban seamstress. Three factors influenced her decision to study Afrocubanismo as an adult. The first influence was her experience in Europe, where studying African art became very popular. Secondly she was influenced by her studies in Paris, where she began to see the large influence that African art had on Cuban art. Thirdly she had as a companion Teresa de la Parra, a Venezuelan novelist and socialite whom she met while studying in Europe, and who enjoyed reading Cuban books with her. They often studied about the island together.\n\nWith her focus on thoroughly exploring Afro-Cuban culture, she returned to Cuba in 1930. She moved to a ranch, La Quinta San Jose, in the suburb of Havana, Marianao, located just outside the barrio Pogolotti where she conducted most her research on Afro-Cuban culture. Between 1937 and 1948, she published her second book of short stories \"Por Que...Cuentos negros de Cuba\". For this collection, she participated in the culture of the Afro-Cubans and recorded their religious rituals and traditions.\n\nDuring the late 1950s she continued to publish several books about Afro-Cuban religions, especially focusing on the Abakuás. Being a secret society, the Abakuás were reluctant to talk to her about their religion. Since they did not accept women as members, Cabrera relied on the use of interviews to gain information for her book. It focused on the origins of the group, the myth of Sikaneke, and the hierarchy of its members. Somehow she managed to photograph their sacred drum, which is supposed to remain hidden at all times, to include within her research.\n\nHer career spanned decades before the Revolution, as well as many years after the revolution in Cuba. Although she was never schooled in anthropology, she takes a very anthropological approach to studying her subject matter. The main theme in her work is the focus on to the once-marginalized Afro-Cubans, giving them a respectable identity. Through the use of imagery and storytelling in her work, she seeks to retell the history of the Cuban people through the Afro-Cuban lens. Generally, her work blurs the line between what society has deemed as \"fact\" and \"fiction.\" She attempts to pose ideas and theories that force one to question what they have been told.In Afro-Cuban Tales = Cuentos Negros De Cuba, She writes, \"They dance when they're born, they dance when they die, they dance for killings. They celebrate everything!\" (Cabrera 67). Here, she is connecting Afro-Cuban tales with African rituals because it is important to celebrate birth, passage to adulthood, marriage, and death.\n\nShe left the country in 1960 shortly after the revolution and never returned. She left as an exile, first going to Madrid and later settling in Miami, FL., where she remained the rest of her life. Ms. Cabrera received several honorary doctorate degrees, including one from the University of Miami in 1987. Cabrera describes her stories as \"transpositions,\" but they went much further than a simple retelling. She recreated and altered elements, characters, and themes of African and universal folklore, but she also modified the traditional stories by adding details of Cuban customs of the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nToward the last years of her life, Lydia Cabrera worked diligently to edit and publish the many notes she had collected during more than thirty years of research in Cuba.\n\nThe real reason why she left is still unknown. Some claim that she left because of the lifestyle the revolution was trying to instill. For many years, Cabrera had stated her dislike for the revolution and socialist-Marxist ideology. Others claim she left because members of the Abakuás were hunting her down since she had made their secret society public. Although the reason why she left is unknown, she never returned and spent the rest of her life living in Miami until her death in September 19, 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29129013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29129013", "title": "Macedonians in Montenegro", "text": "Macedonians in Montenegro\n\nThe Macedonians in Montenegro form a small minority in the country. The last official census showed that there are 900 Macedonians in Montenegro. According to the Macedonian associations in Montenegro there are about 2000 Macedonians living in Montenegro.\n\nBy 1948, 133 Macedonians lived in Montenegro, this number rose to 875 in 1981. 1,072 Macedonians were counted in the 1991 Yugoslav Census, this number had fallen to 819 by 2003. Macedonian was the mother language of 507 people. The Macedonians were concentrated in Podgorica, Herceg Novi and Tivat. There is an estimated 2,500 Macedonians in Montenegro today.\n\nThe two main organizations of the Macedonians in Montenegro are the \"Association of Montenegrin-Macedonian Friendship\" and the \"National Community of Macedonians in Montenegro\", which was established in 2006.\n\nThe National Community of Macedonians aims to make the Macedonian language more popular in Montenegro and to help Macedonians integrate better into the Montenegrin system and market.\n"}
{"id": "28055590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28055590", "title": "Mbaja tribe", "text": "Mbaja tribe\n\nThe Mbadja or Ovambadja is a group of an independent tribe that speaks Oshimbadja language. They originated from (Município de Ombadja) in southern Angola, Cunene Province (Província do Cunene).\n\nAbout 20% of the Mbadja people migrated from south Angola during the years of 1900 into the northern part of Namibia. They occupied an area of land that they named \"Okalongo\", which translates to \"a small country\". Although they may confused by some people with the Wambo or Ovawambo tribes, because of their similar way of speaking, the Mbadja people were never recognized as such among the traditional seven Owambo tribes, listed as Kwanyama, Ndonga, Ngandjera, Kwaluudhi, Kolonkadhi, Mbalanhu and Kwambi. The Mbadja are also referred to as \"Ovambadja vaNaushona\".\n\nSome of the Ovambadja stay in Okalongo in the Omusati region, Namibia. Like other African tribes, the Mbadja people raise cattle, goats, sheep, pigs and chicken. They cultivate the land to grow omahangu, maize, sorghum, beans, peanuts and watermelons during the rainy season.\n\nMbadja is part of the Bantu people. The Mbadja ancestors told stories of their origins that tells that they have migrated from \"The Land of the Lakes\" and moved south centuries ago. It is suspected that the place they refer to is around Lake Tanganyika in Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "31045913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31045913", "title": "Micro-retailing", "text": "Micro-retailing\n\nMicro-retailing, or microretailing, has two distinct meanings. The first describes how some businesses are moving from having giant superstores to smaller, demographically targeted stores that focus on a small selection of popular products. The second refers to small, independent, family owned businesses in developing nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "38770326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38770326", "title": "Nadia Afgan", "text": "Nadia Afgan\n\nNadia Afgan () is a Pakistani actress and comedian. She is best known for her various comic roles in television serials like \"Shashlik\" \"Family front\" \" 2 or 2 chaar \" 123\" and \"Zindan\" aired by PTV Home.\n\nNadia was born to a Muslim family in Quetta, Balochistan. She studied in University College of Art and Design, Lahore.\n\nNadia started her career as an actress from PTV Lahore Center. Later she acted in many PTV drama serials and now she is being seen in different serials on all the public and private channels in Pakistan. Her credited roles are in Shashlik, Raju Rocket and Bilqees Kaur. She also acted in Banana News Network aired on Geo News.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5087962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5087962", "title": "Naked hiking", "text": "Naked hiking\n\nNaked hiking, also known as naked walking or freehiking, is a sub-category of the modern form of social nudity, and involves the undertaking of walking activities while naked.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Stephen Gough, known as The Naked Rambler, received much media coverage for walking naked from Land's End to John o' Groats in 2003–2004 and again in 2005–2006. He was arrested and released several times during both his walks while in England, and was imprisoned in Scotland. \n\nConversely to Gough's experiences, in 2005 and 2006 the European Alps were crossed naked during a one-week hiking tour, and there was little media coverage. No one was arrested or troubled, and there was no police involvement. Most naked hikers report friendly reactions from people they meet; however, in some countries where such restrictions exist, the risk of being booked on a charge such as public indecency is present when hiking in the nude.\n\nSome jurisdictions have regulations formally prohibiting this activity, and can impose fines or other punishments. A local bylaw to this effect was adopted, for example, by the 2009 General Meeting (\"Landsgemeinde\") of the residents of the Swiss canton Appenzell Innerrhoden. In nearby Appenzell Ausserrhoden, the court of second instance \"Obergericht\" reinforced an unpaid fine of 100 Swiss francs for naked hiking and added the court's cost of another 3330 Swiss Francs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "897710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897710", "title": "Nu da șpagă", "text": "Nu da șpagă\n\nNu da şpagă (\"Don't Bribe\" in Romanian) is a national anti-corruption campaign launched in Romania in 2004 to deal with the problem of corruption in that country. The campaign is co-ordinated by Transparency International with the support of the European Union, which Romania joined in 2007. Corruption has been a problem in Romania since Communist times, but the situation has recently improved.\n\n"}
{"id": "16151188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16151188", "title": "Peak wheat", "text": "Peak wheat\n\nPeak wheat is the concept that agricultural production, due to its high use of water and energy inputs, is subject to the same profile as oil and other fossil fuel production. The central tenet is that a point is reached, the \"peak\", beyond which agricultural production plateaus and does not grow any further, and may even go into permanent decline.\n\nBased on current supply and demand factors for agricultural commodities (e.g. changing diets in the emerging economies, biofuels, declining acreage under irrigation, growing global population, stagnant agricultural productivity growth), some commentators are predicting a long-term annual production shortfall of around 2% which, based on the highly inelastic demand curve for food crops, could lead to sustained price increases in excess of 10% a year - sufficient to double crop prices in seven years.\n\nAccording to the World Resources Institute, global per capita food production has been increasing substantially for the past several decades.\n\nWater is a necessary input for food production. Two billion people face acute water shortage this century as Himalayan glaciers melt. Water shortages in China have helped lower the wheat harvest from its peak of 123 million tons in 1997 to below 100 million tons in recent years. Of China's 617 cities, 300 are facing water shortages. In many, these shortfalls can be filled only by diverting water from agriculture. Farmers cannot compete economically with industry for water in China. China is developing a grain deficit even with the over-pumping of its aquifers. Grain production in China has been said to have peaked in 1998 at 392 million tons, falling below 350 million tons in 2000, 2001, and 2002, although such was 571 million tons in 2011 after eight consecutive years of increase from 2003 to 2011. The annual deficits have been filled by drawing down the country's extensive grain reserves, and by reliance on the world grain market. Some predict that China will soon become the world's largest importer of grain.\n\nFigures from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) contradict many claims that the country's wheat supply is unstable. According to USDA, in 2014 China imported 1.5 billion tonnes (GT) of wheat, and had relatively small exports of 1 GT. However, China \"produced\" 126 GT of wheat in 2014, according to the same source. For comparison, Egypt was 2014's largest importer, with imports of 10.7 GT. If China had imported more than Egypt, it still would have produced almost 10 times more wheat than it imported, while in fact it produced more than 100 times more.\n\nRussia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan have restricted exports and levied tariffs on wheat. Higher prices are not meeting any opposition from desperate buyers.\n"}
{"id": "1352075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1352075", "title": "Personal broadcasting", "text": "Personal broadcasting\n\nPersonal broadcasting is the particular type of broadcasting where the individual broadcaster creates its own content by webcam or camcorder and transmits it through the Internet. It is the broadcasting that is personal, both in the context of production but also in the feel of the content. In this type of broadcasting, individuals are both editors and directors of its own broadcasting. \n\nPersonal broadcasting is most popularly used by individuals and event holders who want to broadcast one or an event for an audience to watch live over the Internet. Personal broadcasting gives individuals another way to interact with one another, and it gives brands another way to interact with their customers. Individual entrepreneurs use the personal broadcasting to boost their brands among young consumers. \n\nPersonal broadcasting differs from other types of broadcasting in a way that it has no fixed broadcasting time, and the broadcaster can freely choose the broadcasting content. Personal broadcasting is not limited to celebrities and public figures, but is produced by regular people too. Anybody, anywhere, at any time can broadcast themselves or their content for free. The market for personal broadcasting that allows ordinary individuals to broadcast themselves on the Internet is rapidly growing. \n\nBy personal broadcasting, individuals are free to stream any sort of broadcast they want and attract viewers, who can send real-time comments, or text messages displayed directly across the screens that the broadcaster can see and respond to. In this way, viewers can watch the videos of personal broadcasters and at the same time share their thoughts and feelings with others live. \n\nSince the beginning of 2000s, personal broadcasting has been gaining a lot of interest from the public and it has become one of entertainment options. As the popularity of watching video increased, demand for the personal broadcasting was initiated, and the rise of penetration of the Smartphone, equipped with high-definition cameras, and a new generation of video applications, enabled individuals to broadcast straight from one’s own mobile device whenever they like and wherever they may be.\n\nThe widespread supply of different types of broadcasting software, including live-streaming applications, allowed individuals to easily broadcast, and this encouraged the popularity of the personal broadcasting among young generation willing to show their personal lives online for fun or fame. Personal broadcasting lets individuals be engaged in self-branding, turning the private into public.\n\nAs a new form of mobile self-expression, personal broadcasting has been popularized in China and in Republic of Korea in particular. \n\nDespite the increasing number of personal broadcasting services, it lacks proper monitoring systems to look out for any illicit contents. \n\n"}
{"id": "49053393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49053393", "title": "Peruvians in Chile", "text": "Peruvians in Chile\n\nPeruvians in Chile consists of mainly of immigrants and expatriates from Peru as well as their locally born descendants. Both countries share the Spanish language; their historical origins are common (part of the Spanish Empire). They also share one ethnic group, many Peruvians and Chileans have Quechua ancestry.\n\n"}
{"id": "36519330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36519330", "title": "Political assassinations in post-apartheid South Africa", "text": "Political assassinations in post-apartheid South Africa\n\nThere have been a number of political assassinations in post-apartheid South Africa. In 2013 it was reported that there had been more than 450 political assassinations in the province of KwaZulu-Natal since the end of apartheid in 1994. In July 2013 the \"Daily Maverick\" reported that there had been \"59 political murders in the last five years\". In August 2016 it was reported that there had been at least twenty political assassinations in the run up to the local government elections on the 3rd of August that year, most of them in KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nPolitical assassinations have often been ascribed to battles around patronage within the ruling African National Congress. However, not all assassinations are a result of conflict within the ruling party. The National Freedom Party led by Zanele Magwaza-Msibi, with its base largely in KwaZulu-Natal, claims that 21 of its members have been killed since the party was founded in early 2011. The Inkatha Freedom Party claims that ten of its elected representatives have been murdered. In June 2013 Abahlali baseMjondolo, an autonomous shack dwellers' movement in Durban, claimed that the murder of Nkululeko Gwala, a local leader in the organisation, was a political assassination. In May 2016 two ANC councillors were convicted of murder following the assassination of Thuli Ndlovu, also a local leader in Abahlali baseMjondolo .\n\nAccording to Raymond Suttner \"assassinations have become a regularised way of deciding on leadership and access to wealth within the ANC and its allies\". In 2016 the ANC Secretary General, Gwede Mantashe said: \"The reality is that selection of candidates for council is always a life-and-death issue. But assassinations are only the most extreme tip of the iceberg of violence that surrounds South African elections. David Bruce published an extensive report on the 2014 election pointing to the subtle and complex ways in which the ANC intimidates its political rivals. In the run up to the 2014 election the Independent Electoral Commission did little to intervene to prevent violence, the abuse of government rescources and the use of the state run media (the SABC) to favour the ruling party. \n\nIn recent years South Africa has also seen the rise of the professional assassin. Professor Mark Shaw and Kim Thomas of the University of Cape Town produced a paper ‘The commercialisation of assassination: hits and contract killing in South Africa, 2000-2015.’ Thomas and Shaw used the media (including local, regional and national news) to build a database of individual hits or attempted hits over a 16-year period. They recorded just over 1 000 individual cases of assassination or attempted assassination. By no means all were political. ‘Where there is a cross-over between the involvement of state and criminal actors in perpetrating such violence, or cooperating in ways that facilitate violent outcomes, the position is particularly serious,’ says Professor Shaw.\n\nIt has been argued that the situation is particularly bad in the provinces of Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal with KwaZulu-Natal being, by far, the worst. KwaZulu-Natal has been described as the \"epicenter of political violence\" while Mpumalanga has been described as \"notorious for political assassinations\" Fourteen assassinations have been documented in Mpumalanga and 450 in KwaZulu-Natal. It has been reported that \"Since the beginning of 2011, the murder of people with high political profiles has been confined almost exclusively to KwaZulu-Natal, with 27 in the province since February 2011. According to the ANC 38 of its members have been assassinated in KwaZulu-Natal since the beginning of 2011. It has been suggested that support for murders in the taxi industry in KwaZulu-Natal by leading figures in the ruling party legitimated the use of violence in the democratic era which then spilled over into the political sphere.\n\nThere has been one conviction in response to the fourteen assassinations in Mpumalanga and four in KwaZulu-Natal for forty two assassinations leading one researcher to conclude that some people are starting to believe there may be a \"general licence for political killings\" but that \"this may only be available to people in certain political positions\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21484134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21484134", "title": "Prison rape", "text": "Prison rape\n\nPrison rape or jail rape is rape occurring in prison. The phrase has come into common usage to refer to rape of inmates by other inmates, and less commonly to the rape of inmates by staff, and even less commonly rape of staff by inmates.\n\nIn the US, the overwhelming majority of cases are men who are raped by other men.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, sexual contact with inmates by prison staff is illegal regardless of consent.\n\nThe well-known teardrop tattoo sometimes signifies that the wearer was raped while incarcerated and tattooed with a teardrop under the eye by the offending party, this was a way of marking an inmate as property or to publicly humiliate the inmate as face tattoos cannot be hidden. \n\nPublic awareness of common prison rape is a relatively recent development and estimates of its prevalence have varied widely for decades. In 1974, Carl Weiss and David James Friar wrote that 46 million Americans would one day be incarcerated; of that number, they held that 10 million would be raped.\n\nA United States Department of Justice report, \"Sexual Victimization in Prisons and Jails Reported by Inmates\", states that \"In 2011–12, an estimated 5.0% of state and federal prison inmates and 3.2% of jail inmates reported experiencing one or more incidents of sexual victimization by another inmate or facility staff in the past 12 months or since admission to the facility, if less than 12 months.\" However, advocates dispute the accuracy of the numbers, saying they seem to under-report the real numbers of sexual assaults in prison, especially among juveniles.\n\nA 1992 estimate from the Federal Bureau of Prisons conjectured that between 9 and 20 percent of inmates had been sexually assaulted. Studies in 1982 and 1996 concluded that the rate was somewhere between 12 and 14 percent. A 1986 study by Daniel Lockwood put the number at around 23 percent for maximum security prisons in New York. In contrast, Christine Saum's 1994 survey of 101 inmates showed 5 had been sexually assaulted.\n\nThe \"Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003\" was the first United States federal law passed specifically dealing with the sexual assault of prisoners. The bill was signed into law on September 4, 2003.\n\nSexual violence against political prisoners is prevalent in Iran. It is allegedly ignored or even facilitated by authorities.\n\nIt is said that rape has been used by interrogators in Iran for decades. During the 1980s, following the Iranian Islamic Revolution, the rape of female political prisoners was so prevalent that it prompted Hussein-Ali Montazeri, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khomeini's then-deputy, to write the following to Khomeini in a letter dated 7 October 1986: \"Did you know that young women are raped in some of the prisons of the Islamic Republic?\" Two prominent members of Iran's human rights community, the feminist lawyer and journalist Shadi Sadr and the blogger and activist Mojtaba Saminejad published essays online from inside Iran saying prison rape has a long history in the Islamic Republic.\n\nIn the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests, opposition groups reported thousands were arrested and tortured in prisons around the country, with former inmates alleging mass rape of men, women and children by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards, in prisons such as Kahrizak and Evin.\n\nFollowing the 2009 presidential election, Iranian presidential candidate Mehdi Karroubi said several protesters held behind bars in Evin Prison had been savagely raped, according to a confidential letter to cleric Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. Karroubi said this was a \"fragment\" of the evidence he had and that if the denials did not stop, he would release even more.\n\nOn August 9, 2009, in a letter to the Chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council of Iran, Mehdi Karroubi demanded investigation of Iranian prisons for possible the tortures and, in particular, sexual harassment of men and women. On August 19, he wrote to parliament speaker Ali Larijani, asking to meet with him, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, judiciary chief Ayatollah Sadeq Larijani, former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and the state prosecutor to \"personally present my documents and evidence over the cases of sexual abuse in some prisons specially Kahrizak.\" Ali Larijani and Sadeq Larijani (Judiciary committee) both officially rejected his claims and Ali Khamenei's representatives, and Vice Chairman of National Security Commission of the parliament demanded Karroubi's arrest.\n\nHuman Rights Watch and Amnesty International have both released reports of widespread rape and abuse of prisoners in Turkey spanning multiple decades. Kurdish prisoners have also been specifically targeted for rape and other forms of sexual violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7889978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7889978", "title": "Rangzen Shonu", "text": "Rangzen Shonu\n\nRangzen Shonu (: \"Freedom Youth\") was a rock and roll band formed by Tibetans in India. Dadon reportedly integrated some of Rangzen Shonu's signature style after hearing a cassette smuggled in Tibet in 1988. Rangzen Shonu is best known for the unique sound of Tibetan lyrics accompanied by acoustic guitars rather than traditional Tibetan instruments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16710941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16710941", "title": "Richard McCaslin", "text": "Richard McCaslin\n\nThe Phantom Patriot was the name taken by Richard McCaslin of Carson City, Nevada, who, on January 19, 2002, attempted an attack on the Bohemian Grove. He was imprisoned in California. He is the subject of the song \"Phantom Patriot\" by Les Claypool on his album \"Of Whales and Woe\".\n\nMcCaslin, wearing a skull mask and a blue jumpsuit with \"Phantom Patriot\" written in red on his chest, infiltrated the site of Bohemian Grove, just north of San Francisco. He was heavily armed with \"a pump-action rifle/shotgun hybrid, a .45 caliber handgun, a crossbow, a 2-foot-long sword, a knife and a fireworks mortar tube.\" McCaslin slept in one of the cabins overnight. The following morning, he found the 30-foot owl statue, then later encountered caretaker Fred Yeager and maintenance man Bob Hipkiss. McCaslin set a fire in the empty banquet hall, then was later removed peacefully by local law enforcement officers and was briefly held at the mental health ward of the Sonoma County Jail. He later claimed to have seen the documentary film \"Dark Secrets Inside Bohemian Grove\", by radio show host Alex Jones.\n\nMcCaslin was paroled on 19 May 2008. On June 28, 2011, using the name \"Thoughtcrime\", McCaslin protested outside the Alcoa plant in Davenport, Iowa, where Barack Obama was speaking. He accused Obama, as well as the Bushes, the Clintons and others of being reptoid/human hybrids, or \"blue blood\".\n\nMost recently, McCaslin has adopted Las Vegas, Nevada as his base of operations. His story appears in the 2013 book, \"Heroes in the Night; Inside the Real Life Superhero Movement\" by Tea Krulos. He also has three Phantom Patriot videos on YouTube.\n"}
{"id": "52216924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52216924", "title": "Sarnat Prize", "text": "Sarnat Prize\n\nThe Rhoda and Bernard Sarnat International Prize in Mental Health was established in 1992 and is awarded annually by the National Academy of Medicine in the United States to recognize individuals, groups, or organizations for outstanding achievement in improving mental health. It is accompanied by a medal and $20,000.\n\nSource: National Academy of Sciences\n\n"}
{"id": "56448182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56448182", "title": "Science, Reason and Faith Group", "text": "Science, Reason and Faith Group\n\nThe group Science, Reason and Faith (CRYF, standing for Ciencia, Razón y Fe in Spanish) is formed by teachers at the University of Navarra. Its purpose is to promote the interdisciplinary study of issues related to science, philosophy and religion. The activities of the group cover three closely related areas: research, teaching and public engagement.\n\nThe beginning of the CRYF group dates back to the informal conversations that, at the end of the 20th century, professors Mariano Artigas († 2006) and Carlos Pérez († 2005) maintained about interdisciplinary questions and public debates concerning the relationship between science and faith.\n\nIn 2002, circumstances were favorable for the creation of the group. Its founding members were professors Mariano Artigas, Juan Luis Lorda, Antonio Pardo, Carlos Perez, Francisco Gallardo and Santiago Collado. Since its inception, in addition to other teachers from the University of Navarra, the group has incorporated prestigious intellectuals and experts on the topics of interest as collaborating members: Evandro Agazzi, William Shea, Juan Arana and Tito Arecchi are some of the present collaborators.\n\nProfessor Artigas was appointed the first director of the group, a position he held until his death. The contribution of his intellectual output, which the group has inherited as his legacy, could be summarized as having contributed to unify and highlight the relationship between science and religion. In this endeavor, it is important not to reduce thought to mere scientific rationality, where science is understood as empirical or experimental science. The name of the group expresses this conviction: science, reason and faith. The CRYF is currently considered one of the centers that has contributed most to explore the common ground shared by science, philosophy and theology in southern Europe. \n\nThe CRYF has received funding from the Templeton Foundation twice. In 2006, for the project entitled \"The Human Singularity: The Origin, Nature, and Destiny of the Human Being\" and in 2011, in order to set up the \"Mariano Artigas Memorial Lectures\". The Mariano Artigas Lectures are held every two years in October and have a two-fold purpose: to honor the figure of Professor Artigas and to recognize the work done by the invited lecturer in the field of the relations between science and religion. Previous speakers have been William Shea in 2011, Karl Giberson in 2013 and Giuseppe Tanzella-Nitti in 2015. In 2017, the Lecture was entrusted to Spanish philosopher Juan Arana.\n\nAt the beginning of 2007, after the death of Mariano Artigas, the professor of Physics, Héctor Mancini replaced him as head of the group until the beginning of 2010. During the period 2010-2016 the director was the neuroscientist, philosopher and priest José Manuel Giménez Amaya. Since the beginning of 2016, this position is held by the physicist, theologian and priest Javier Sánchez Cañizares.\n\nBroadly speaking, the CRYF group is interested in discussing the big issues from the perspective of the dialogue between science, reason and faith. Specifically, the main topics of interest are the following:\nMore specific goals of the group are: to promote among its members research and publications on the topics of interest; to develop lessons and teaching materials for intra- and extra-mural education; to make available, through the Internet, an archive of documents on the areas of interest that could be useful as teaching material and for outreach activities; and to promote the organization of activities, collaborations and scientific meetings that can help achieve the goals of the group.\n\nThe CRYF group organizes monthly open seminars with invited speakers, followed by a discussion in which academics from various areas of expertise (such as theology, physics, medicine, philosophy and biology) exchange ideas and opinions. These seminars may also have the format of a round table or a workshop, and they are uploaded to the YouTube channel of the University of Navarra. One activity that deserves special mention was the workshop organized by the CRYF in collaboration with the \"Thomas More Institute\" of London in 2009, to study the contributions of Mariano Artigas. The presentations of that meeting were later collected and published in the book \"Science and Faith Within Reason\". \n\nIn collaboration with the Nicolaus Copernicus University of Torun (Poland), the CRYF group publishes the interdisciplinary scientific journal \"Scientia et Fides\" twice a year. This peer-reviewed open-access magazine publishes original articles addressing in a rigorous way the relationships between science and religion from different perspectives. The second issue of 2016 was a special number commemorating the tenth anniversary of the death of Mariano Artigas.\n\nWith regard to teaching, the CRYF group teaches three courses on issues related to science and religion at the University of Navarra. It also collaborates regularly with the Higher Institute of Religious Sciences of the same University. The members of the CRYF are available to give seminars or conferences on the topics of interest to any institution requesting it. Several schools, cultural foundations and universities across Spain, Europe and Latin America have already benefited from this collaboration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1354675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354675", "title": "Senaya language", "text": "Senaya language\n\nThe Senaya language is a modern Eastern Syriac-Aramaic language. It is the language of Assyrians originally from Sanandaj in Iranian Kurdistan. Most Senaya speakers now live in California, United States and few families still live in Tehran, Iran. They are mostly members of the Chaldean Catholic Church. Since the speakers are ethnically Assyrian, the language would be, at times, considered a dialect of Assyrian Neo-Aramaic.\n\nThe city of Sanandaj is at the southeastern periphery of the area of spoken modern Aramaic languages. Its geography makes the Neo-Aramaic of Sanandaj quite distinct from other dialects. Two different colloquial Aramaic dialects developed in Sanandaj: Jewish Hulaula and Christian Senaya. The two languages developed along different lines, so that the two are not mutually comprehensible. One distinctive difference between the two is the sound change associated with the Middle Aramaic fricative \"θ\" (\"th\"), often rendered as \"l\" in Hulaula, and \"s\" in Senaya. For example, \"mîθa\", 'dead', is \"mîsa\" in Senaya, and \"mîla\" in Hulaula.\n\nMost Senaya speakers are members of the Chaldean Catholic Church, which broke away from the Church of the East in the 16th century and entered into communion with the Roman Catholic Church. However, Senaya is to a small degree incomprehensible to speakers of Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, also Chaldean Catholics, originally from Iraq because of the heavy Kurdish influences on the language. In the middle of the 20th century, the Chaldean Bishop of Senna (as Sanandaj is called in Senaya) was moved to Tehran. The Christian community soon followed, so that there are no native speakers of Senaya left in Sanandaj. In Tehran, Senaya has been heavily influenced by the Urmežnāya dialect of Assyrian Neo-Aramaic spoken by the larger Church of the East community there. Both church communities use classical Syriac in worship. Senaya is written in the \"Madnhāyâ\" version of the Syriac alphabet, which is also used for classical Syriac.\n\nThe first recorded music with Senaya lyrics was released by Paul Caldani in 2002, titled \"Melodies of a Distant Land\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32311086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32311086", "title": "Sindhi diaspora", "text": "Sindhi diaspora\n\nThe Sindhi diaspora consists of Sindhi people who have emigrated from the historical Sind province of British India, as well as the modern Sindh province of Pakistan, to other countries and regions of the world, as well as their descendants.\n\nApart from South Asia, there is a large and well-established community of Sindhis throughout different continents of the world - including Canada, Malaysia, Oman, Singapore, UAE, USA and UK etc.\n\nIn 1947, most of the Sindhi Hindu community migrated to India. Today, there are about 2.7 million Sindhis living in India.\nThere is a sizeable population of Sindhis in the U.K. and U.S.A.\n\nIt is estimated that around 10,700 Sindhi of Afghanistan are part of a much larger Sindhi people group. Almost all of the Sindhi in Afghanistan are Hanafite Muslim.\n\n"}
{"id": "28303167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28303167", "title": "Social information seeking", "text": "Social information seeking\n\nSocial information seeking (SIS) is a field of research that involves studying situations, motivations, and methods for people seeking and sharing information in participatory online social sites, such as Yahoo! Answers, Answerbag, WikiAnswers and Twitter as well as building systems for supporting such activities. Highly related topics involve traditional and virtual reference services, information retrieval, information extraction, and knowledge representation.\n\nSocial information seeking is often materialized in online question-answering (QA) websites, which are driven by a community. Such QA sites have emerged in the past few years as an enormous market, so to speak, for the fulfillment of information needs. Estimates of the volume of questions answered are difficult to come by, but it is likely that the number of questions answered on social/community QA (cQA) sites far exceeds the number of questions answered by library reference services, which until recently were one of the few institutional sources for such question answering. cQA sites make their content – questions and associated answers submitted on the site – available on the open web, and indexable by search engines, thus enabling web users to find answers provided for previously asked questions in response to new queries.\n\nThe popularity of such sites have been increasing dramatically for the past several years. Major sites that provide a general platform for questions of all types include Yahoo! Answers, Answerbag and Quora. While other sites that focus on particular fields; for example, StackOverflow (computing). StackOverflow has 3.45 million questions, 1.3 million users and over 6.86 million answers since July 2008 while Quora has 437 thousand questions, 264 thousand users and 979 thousand answers.\n\nSocial Q&A or cQA, according to Shah et al., consists of three components: a mechanism for users to submit questions in natural language, a venue for users to submit answers to questions, and a community built around this exchange. Viewed in that light, online communities have performed a question answering function perhaps since the advent of Usenet and Bulletin Board Systems, so in one sense cQA is nothing new. Websites dedicated to cQA, however, have emerged on the web only within the past few years: the first cQA site was the Korean Naver Knowledge iN, launched in 2002, while the first English-language CQA site was Answerbag, launched in April 2003. Despite this short history, however, cQA has already attracted a great deal of attention from researchers investigating information seeking behaviors, selection of resources, social annotations, user motivations, comparisons with other types of question answering services, and a range of other information-related behaviors.\n\nSome of the interesting and important research questions in this area include:\n\n\nShah et al. provide a detailed research agenda for social Q&A. A new book by Shah presents a more recent and comprehensive information pertaining to SIS.\n\nFriendsourcing is an important component of social question and answering, including how to route questions to friends or others who will most likely answer the question. The important questions include what people’s behaviors are in social networks, especially what kinds of questions people ask from their social networks and how different question types affect the frequency, speed and quality of answers they receive.\n\nMorris et al. (2010) conducted a survey of question and answering within social networks with 624 people, and gathered detailed data about the behavior of Q&A, including frequency, types of questions and answers, and motivations. They found that half (50.6%) of respondents reported having used their status messages to ask a question, which indicated that Q&A on social networks is popular. Also, the types of questions people asked include recommendation, opinion, factual knowledge, rhetorical, etc. And motivations for asking include trust, asking subjective questions, etc. Their analysis also explored the relationships between answer speed and quality, questions’ property and participants’ property. Only a very small portion (6.5%) of the questions were answered, but the 89.3% of the respondents were satisfied with the response time they experienced even though there’s a discrepancy between that and expectation. Also, the responses gathered via social networks appear to be very valuable. Their findings implied design for search tools that could combine the speed and breadth of traditional search engines with the trustworthiness, personalization, and the high engagement of social media Q&A.\n\nPaul et al. (2011) did a study on question and answering on Twitter, and found that out of the 1152 questions they examined, the most popular question types asked on Twitter were rhetorical (42%) and factual (16%). Surprisingly, along with entertainment (29%) and technology (29%) questions, people asked personal and health-related questions (11%). Only 18.7% questions received response, while a handful of questions received a high number of responses. The larger the askers’ network, the more responses she received; however, posting more tweets or posting more frequently did not increase chances of receiving a response. Most often the “follow” relationship between asker and answerer was one-way. Paul et al. also examined what factors of the askers would increase the chance of getting a response and found that more relevant responses are received when there is a mutual relationship between askers and answerers. Intuitively, we would expect this, as mutual relationship would indicate stronger tie strength and hence, more number of relevant answers.\n\nExisting social Q&A services can be characterized from the three perspectives, by the definition of social Q&A as a service involving (1) a method for presenting information needs, (2) a place for responding to information need, and (3) participation as a community.\n\nThese social networks support various friendsourcing behavior, provide information benefits that often times traditional search tools cannot, and also may reinforce social bonds through the process. However, there are many questions and limitations that may prevent people from asking questions on their social networks. For example, they may feel uncomfortable asking questions that are too private, might not want to cost too much other people’s time and effort, or might feel the burden of social debts.\n\nRzeszotarski and Morris (2014) took a novel approach to explore the perceived social costs of friendsourcing on Twitter via monetary choices. They modeled friendsourcing costs across users, and compared it with crowdsourcing on Amazon Mechanical Turk. Their findings suggested interesting design considerations for minimizing social cost by building a hybrid system combining friendsourcing and crowdsourcing with microtask markets.\n\nSometimes, only asking question from people’s own social networks or friends is not enough. If the question is obscure or time sensitive, no members of their social networks may know the answer. For example, this person’s friends might not have expertise in providing evaluations for a specific model of digital camera. Also asking the current wait time for security at the local airport might not be possible if none of this person’s friends are currently at the airport.\n\nNichols and Kang (2012) leveraged Twitter for question and answering with targeted strangers by taking advantage of its public accessibility. In their approach, they mined the public status updates posted on Twitter to find strangers with potentially useful information, and send questions to these strangers to collect responses. As a feasibility study, they collected information regarding response rate, and response time. 42% of users responded to questions from strangers, and 44% of the responses arrived within 30 minutes.\n\nAnother important and unique component of social Q&A system is that it is a community which allows members to form relationships and bonds, so that their behavior in these social Q&A services will also add to their social capital.\n\nGray et al. (2013) explored how bridging social capital, question type and relational closeness influence the perceived usefulness and satisfaction of information obtained through questions asked on Facebook. Their results indicated that bridging social capital could positively predict the perceived utility of the acquired information, meaning that information exchanges on social networks is an effective way of social capital conversion. Also, useful answers are more likely to be received from weak ties than strong ties.\n\nIn order to recommend the most appropriate users to provide answers in a social network, we need to find approaches to detect users' authority in a social network. In the field of information retrieval, there has been a trend of research investigating ways to detect users' authority effectively and accurately in a social network.\n\nCha et al. investigate possible metrics for determining authority users on popular social network Twitter. They propose the following three simple network-based metrics and discuss their usefulness in determining a user's influence.\n\nAn initial analysis of the three aforementioned metrics showed that the users with the highest indegrees and the users with the highest retweet/mention counts were not the same. The top 1% of users by indegree are shown to have very low correlation with the same percentile of users by retweets and by mentions. This implies that follower count is not useful in determining whether a user's tweets get retweeted or whether the other users engage with them.\n\nPal et al. designed features to measure a user's authority on a certain topic. For example, retweet impact refers to how many times a certain user has been retweeted on a certain topic. The impact is dampened by a factor measuring how many times the user had been retweeted by a unique author to avoid the cases when a user has fans who retweet regardless of the content. They first used a clustering approach to find the target cluster which has the highest average score across all features, and used a ranking algorithm to find the most authoritative users within the cluster.\n\nWith these authority detection methods, social Q&A could be more effective in providing accurate answers to askers.\n\nMajor figures:\n"}
{"id": "49686643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49686643", "title": "Somali people in Italy", "text": "Somali people in Italy\n\nSomalis in Italy are citizens and residents of Italy who are of Somali ancestry. The community is small, dating to the end of the Italian Empire.\n\nAs of 2016, there were 7,903 immigrants from Somalia in Italy. In 2006, there were 6,414 residents. The three cities with the largest concentration of Somalis are: Rome (1,885), Turin (464) and Florence (443).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33332641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33332641", "title": "Sport communication", "text": "Sport communication\n\nSports communication is an aspect of communication studies which specializes in the study of communication in a sports setting. It can encompass the study of interpersonal and organizational communication (both verbal and non-verbal) between participants within a particular sport (e.g. players, coaches, managers, referees, trainers and physiotherapists, and governing bodies); communication between sports participants, fans, and the media; and the way that sports are represented and communicated in the media. Sports communication is something that happens at all levels of ranging from kindergarten to the college level and is not restricted to professionals. It happens on a constant basis and works best with people that are willing to work collectively as a team. If everyone is on board with positive thoughts and communication, it becomes very dismantling to the person receiving the message. It is not only for positive talk, though, because negative sports communication happens all the time.\n\nPersonal and Organizational Communication in Sport could involve intrapersonal, interpersonal, and small-group communication in sport, while organizational communication research could include intra- and interorganizational communication in sport.\n\nSports creates a context for positive communication and pro-social behaviors that often occur off of the field or court. For example, many athletes speak in public to children or act as motivational speakers. In tough situations, such as the aftermath of a natural disasters, well known athletes can lift the moral of an affected community. Sports writer Lars Anderson wrote in his book \"The Storm and The Tide\" about how sports helped bring a town together after a disastrous tornado. Also, the situation and community coming together affected the college sports team at The University of Alabama. Andy Billings, professor at The University of Alabama, discusses how sports have the ability to start meaningful conversations https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HU8R0bZzqfg. Sports communication theories allow for the prediction of many facets of communication such as gender, race, identity, culture, and politics.\n\nSports communication varies vastly between individual sports and plays an important role in the success of teams and organizations. A good example of sports communication and its effects on players, organizations and media was the well-documented conflict involving two players for the Miami Dolphins. Inappropriate, discriminatory, and abusive interactions between Richie Incognito and Jonathan Martin lead to the release of Richie from the team, organizational issues, and an abundance of media coverage both negative and positive. Another example of sport communication is the recent \"deflategate\" scandal involving the New England Patriots apparently deflating the footballs during half-time of the AFC Championship game against the Indianapolis Colts. Head coach Bill Belichick claims that any wrongdoing was done by the teams equipment manager and ball boy, and no communication had occurred between them two at any point in the game. This reflects sports communication because it is an example of a lack of communication between an inferior member of an organization and the head coach, which eventually led to a wide spread and highly publicized scandal which could've jeopardized the Patriots participation in the Super Bowl.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3277869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277869", "title": "Udarnik", "text": "Udarnik\n\nAn udarnik (; English plural udarniks or udarniki), also known in English as a shock worker or strike worker (collectively known as shock brigades or a shock labour team) was a highly productive worker in the Soviet Union, the Eastern Bloc, and other communist countries. The term derived from the expression \"udarny trud\" for \"superproductive, enthusiastic labour\". \n\nIn the Soviet Union, the term was linked to Shock worker of Communist Labour (\"Ударник коммунистического труда\"), a Soviet honorary title, as well as Alexey Stakhanov and the movement named after him. However, the terminology of shock workers has also been used in other socialist states, most notably in the People's Republic of China, North Korea, the People's Republic of Bulgaria, and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe ideology behind promoting shock labour was that through socialist emulation the rest of the workforce would learn from the vanguard.\n\nIn People's Republic of Poland a similar title was \"przodownik pracy\" (translated into English as \"model worker\"), a calque from another Soviet/Russian term \"peredovik proizvodstva\", literally \"leader in production\", which was also a formal title of merit. Seen as the Polish version of the Stakhanovite movement, famous Polish workers given the title of \"przodownik pracy\" included Piotr Ożański and especially the \"Polish Stakhanov\" Wincenty Pstrowski, a miner who in 1947 achieved 270 percent expected efficiency per month. Later Pstrowski died due to misconducted dental intervention, but in popular opinion (and official propaganda), it was due to deadly exhaustion.\n\nAfter 1956, the \"przodownik pracy\" title evolved into an equivalent of the \"employee of the month\" title given in the Western countries, but even then it was still disliked and eventually done away with.\n\nIn the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, an udarnik was called \"úderník\" (with slightly different pronunciation in the Czech and Slovak languages). Úderníci were elite workers who surpassed their work quotas and were used by the Party as propaganda. This breaking of production quotas, while usually real and often reaching astounding heights of the order of several hundred percent, was achieved at the cost of substandard quality, lack of work safety regulations and lack of concern for personal health. Most importantly, úderníci usually did not perform any minor tasks mandated by the job standards they were supposed to follow. These tasks were performed by other workers, yet this work counted towards the úderník's quota. Notable udarniks from Czechoslovakia include Lumír Sakmar.\n\n"}
{"id": "20060691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20060691", "title": "Unió de Radioaficionats Andorrans", "text": "Unió de Radioaficionats Andorrans\n\nThe Unió de Radioaficionats Andorrans (URA) (in English, Andorran Amateur Radio Union) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Andorra. URA operates a QSL bureau for those members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. URA represents the interests of Andorran amateur radio operators and shortwave listeners before Andorran and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. URA is the national member society representing Andorra in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "59033472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59033472", "title": "Yamashita v. Hinkle", "text": "Yamashita v. Hinkle\n\nTakuji Yamashita v. Hinkle, 260 U.S. 199 (1922), is a U.S. Supreme Court opinion, affirming the state of Washington's Alien Land Law. The law prohibited Asians from owning property. Washington's attorney general maintained that in order for Japanese people to fit in, their \"marked physical characteristics\" would have to be destroyed, that \"the Negro, the Indian and the Chinaman\" had already demonstrated assimilation was not possible for them. The U.S. Supreme Court heard the case and affirmed this race-based prohibition, citing its immediately prior issued decision in \"Takao Ozawa v. United States\". \"Ozawa\" had upheld the constitutionality of barring anyone other than \"free white persons\" and \"persons of African nativity or ... descent\" to naturalize, and affirmed the racial classifications of previous court decisions.\n\nWashington's Alien Land Law would not be repealed until 1966.\n"}
