{"id": "4543339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4543339", "title": "1634: The Ram Rebellion", "text": "1634: The Ram Rebellion\n\n1634: The Ram Rebellion is the seventh published work in the 1632 alternate history book series, and is the third work to establish what is best considered as a \"main plot line or thread\" of historical speculative focus that are loosely organized and classified geographically. The initial \"main thread\" is called the \"Western and North-Central Europe thread\" (encompassing northern and western Germany, Denmark, England, France, the Low Countries, Sweden and the Baltic); the second plot line, encompassing events in Italy, Spain, the Mediterranean region, and France, the \"South European thread\", and this book can be considered the starting novel of the \"South-Central/South-East thread\" being set in southern Germany, Austria, Bavaria, and Bohemia. This geographically organized plot thread actually began in \"Ring of Fire\" in Flint's novelette \"The Wallenstein Gambit\" which is set in Bohemia, Austria, and Germany, which tied into stories in various Grantville Gazettes.\n\nThe book is hard to classify as it is an oddity, as acknowledged by series creator Eric Flint in the foreword; an anthology in fact, with several longer novelettes sandwiching seemingly unrelated short stories under a (hidden for a while) overarching story line that is capped off by a short novel that \"finally\" brings all the seemingly unrelated and disparate contents together in the latter part of the book.\n\nUnlike most works in the 1632 series, much of this book is written from the standpoint of common people \"in the street\", including Germans trying to cope with Grantsville, West Virginia, \"up-timers\" trying to cope with their new world around Grantville, and both trying to deal with the problems of two widely different cultures meeting in the new United States of Europe. These merging dynamics are the milieu shaping stories Flint felt necessary to include even though they are set in 1631—1632. Their impact extends throughout the book and into 1634, as well as across political boundaries and battle lines as the historical imperatives developed in this book extend into the direct sequel .\n\nThe book spot-covers local events and a few related diplomatic discussions from a few days after the Ring of Fire (May–June 1631) to October in the fall of 1634—giving it the largest time footprint of the four—though narrowly focused. The short novel that concludes the work begins in late August 1633 and overlaps many of the shorter works earlier in the book. Two of the three other books set in 1634 refer to the events in the work (usually as the \"troubles in Franconia\") setting its canonical place in the \"greater\" neohistorical international politics covered in the other two works.\n\nThe two Larkin \"Birdie\" Newhouse tales along with two flashback vignettes by Flint begin the Ram Rebellion book, all four set in the weeks immediately after the \"Ring of Fire\". In the Flint stories which are sandwiched around the Birdie tales, Mike Stearns goes back to school under the tutelage of Melissa Mailey. Stearns has a problem, he has to get a handle on likely complications from the local population, as the stories are set just a few days after he is elected as Chairman of the Emergency Committee. As a result, Mailey gives Stearns several very thick history books on European history in the era.\n\nBirdie Newhouse has an immediate problem, he's a farmer with most of his farm's arable land 300 years off and a continent away. The stories by Gorg Huff and Paula Goodlett explore the alien land practices and ownership of down-time Germany as Birdie seeks to gain additional lands. Land sales are rare, worse, the lawyers are in control and there are three general levels of vested interest: The tenants, have certain rights and obligations over and above monetary rent while leases are generally for the lesser of three generations or 99 years. In between the owner in fact, and the tenants is usually a monetary transaction which gives the rents to any number of claimants—depending upon the finances of the landholding family. The claimants all have a say in the farm operation to some extent, as do the occupants of the farm villages, which also have the right to disapprove or accept new co-farmers, for the land is farmed cooperatively with another set of obligations and entitlements. Birdie can't just go and buy a piece of land, he has to buy it from three different and diverse groups of people... and get them all to agree to terms. As the story notes, seventeenth century Germany was a lawyer's paradise.\n\nFlo Richards is a farmer's wife with four grown children who had bought a small flock of type C Delaine Merino sheep and some angora rabbits before the Ring of Fire in the hope that she'd see more of her youngest daughter, Jen, once she'd finished her studies out of town. The Ring of Fire had consequently left Jan behind in the present in which Flo dealt with this loss by concentrating on her livestock. She and her husband JD have local Germans living with them as partners now that farming has become more labour-intensive. Flo's laments about the poor quality wool of the locally obtained ram (who comes to be known as Brillo for that reason) strike a chord with someone and subsequently a number of 'Brillo fables' started to appear in the local broadsheet, which concerns the titular ram escaped from his pen and interfered with her merino breeding program. His fame due to the stories spread through Grantville out into the rest of Germany. The Women's League of Voters uses a Ram's Head as its emblem, schoolchildren sing songs about Brillo, and even adapted into a ballet.\n\nWith the example of future Grantville, a peasant revolt becomes a revolutionary movement in the fractured Holy Roman Empire south and east of Thuringia while the Machiavellian maneuvers in the neohistorical governments and various field armies now dance to counter-act those aimed at the Americans' new heartland. \"Up-timers\", from the original USA space-time want the serfs to succeed and liberate themselves—but also know what a bloodbath the French Revolution became and various individuals act to help one and prevent the others. Avoiding that path will take all sorts of resources and efforts, and Americans from both uptime and \"down-time\" act resolutely to mitigate the problems, diplomacy to head off wars headed by authoritarians threatened by the new American ideals, and a deft appreciation of when not to fight and dangle an irresistible carrot instead.\n\nIn Franconia, schoolteacher Constantin Ableidinger has been reading \"Common Sense\" by Thomas Paine. He also finds the Brillo stories interesting. The farmers in Franconia (and Thuringia for that matter) have a history of dissent concerning serfdom and Mike Stearns has hopes of getting some fundamental changes made in the way that Franconia is run as a result of a farmer's rebellion of sorts. He neglects to include this in the briefing given to the civil servants sent down to administer Franconia although these people, Johnny F. and Noelle Murphy, among others have an effect on the schoolteacher's \"Ram rebellion\".\n\nDana Blankenhorn of ZDNet called the book \"a sort of open source novel\" as a way of describing how Eric Flint invited other authors to contribute stories to this book in which it extends the franchise. Another reviewer wrote that \"the book gets mired down in detail. It was just too much information.\"\n\n\"1634: The Ram Rebellion\" was listed on the Locus (magazine) Hardcovers Bestsellers List for two months in a row during 2006, topping at number 2.\n"}
{"id": "460927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460927", "title": "African-American studies", "text": "African-American studies\n\nAfrican-American studies is an interdisciplinary academic field devoted to the study of the history, culture, and politics of Black Americans. Taken broadly, the field studies not only the cultures of people of African descent in the United States, but the cultures of the entire African diaspora but it has been defined in different ways. The field includes scholars of African-American literature, history, politics, religion and religious studies, sociology, and many other disciplines within the humanities and social sciences.\n\nIntensive academic efforts to reconstruct African-American history began in the late 19th century (W. E. B. Du Bois, \"The Suppression of the African Slave Trade to the United States of America\", 1896). Among the pioneers in the first half of the 20th century were Carter G. Woodson, Herbert Aptheker, Melville Herskovits, and Lorenzo Dow Turner.\n\nPrograms and departments of African-American studies were first created in the 1960s and 1970s as a result of inter-ethnic student and faculty activism at many universities, sparked by a five-month strike for black studies at San Francisco State. In February 1968, San Francisco State hired sociologist Nathan Hare to coordinate the first black studies program and write a proposal for the first Department of Black Studies; the department was created in September 1968 and gained official status at the end of the five-months strike in the spring of 1969. The creation of programs and departments in black studies was a common demand of protests and sit-ins by minority students and their allies, who felt that their cultures and interests were underserved by the traditional academic structures.\n\nBlack studies is a systematic way of studying black people in the world – such as their history, culture, sociology, and religion. It is a study of the black experience and the effect of society on them and their effect within society. This study aims to, among other things, help eradicate many racial stereotypes. Black studies implements: history, family structure, social and economic pressures, stereotypes, and gender relationships.\n\nIn the United States the 1960s is rightfully known as the “Turbulent Sixties”. During this time period the nation experienced great social unrest, as citizens challenged the social order in radical ways. Many movements took place in the United States during this time period, including: women’s rights movement, labor rights movement, and the civil rights movement.\n\nThe students at the University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley) were witnesses to the Civil Rights Movement, and by 1964 they were thrust into activism. On October 1, 1964, Jack Weinberg, a former graduate student, was sitting at a table where the Congress of Racial Equality was distributing literature encouraging students to protest against institutional racism. Police asked Weinberg to produce his ID to confirm that he was a student, but he refused to do so and was therefore arrested. In support of Weinberg 3,000 students surrounded the police vehicle, and even used the car as a podium from where they spoke about their right to engage in political protest on campus. This impromptu demonstration was the first of many protests, culminating in the institutionalization of African-American Studies.\n\nTwo months later students at UC Berkeley organized sit-in at the Sproul Hall Administration building to protest an unfair rule which prohibited all political clubs from fundraising, excluding the democrat and republican clubs. Police arrested 800 students. Students a “Freedom of Speech Movement” and Mario Savio became its poetic leader, stating that “freedom of speech was something that represents the very dignity of what a human is...\" The Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), a well-connected and organized club, hosted a conference entitled “Black Power and its Challenges\". Black leaders who were directly tied to then ongoing civil rights movements spoke to a predominantly white audience about their respective goals and challenges. These leaders included Stokely Carmichael of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and James Bevel of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC).\n\nEducational conferences like that of SDS forced the university to take some measures to correct the most obvious racial issue on campus—the sparse black student population. In 1966 the school held its first official racial and ethnic survey, it which it was discovered that the “American Negro” represented 1.02% of the university population. In 1968 the university instituted its Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) facilitated the increased minority student enrollment, and offered financial aid to minority students with high potential. By 1970 there were 1,400 EOP students. As the minority student population increased tension between activists clubs and minorities rose, because minority wanted the reigns of the movement that affected them directly. One student asserted that it was “backward to educate white people about Black Power when many black people are still uneducated on the matter. ”The members of the Afro-American Student Union (AASU) proposed an academic department called “Black Studies” in April 1968.\n\"We demand a program of “Black Studies,” a program that will be of and for black people. We demand to be educated realistically and that no form of education which attempts to lie to us, or otherwise miss-educate us will be accepted.\"\n\nAASU members asserted that “The young people of America are the inheritors of what is undoubtedly one of the most challenging, and threatening set of social circumstances that has ever fallen upon a generation of young people in history...\" AASU used these claims to gain ground on their proposal to create a black studies department. Nathan Hare, a sociology professor at San Francisco State University, created what was known as the “A Conceptual Proposal for Black Studies” and AASU used Hare’s framework to create a set of criteria. A Black Studies Program was implemented by UC Berkeley administration on January 13, 1969. In 1969, St. Clair Drake was named the first chair of the degree granting, \"Program in African and Afro-American Studies\" at Stanford University. Many Black Studies Programs and departments and programs around the nation were created in subsequent years.\n\nAt University of California, Santa Barbara, similarly, student activism led to the establishment of a Black Studies department, amidst great targeting and discrimination of student leaders of color on the University of California campuses. In the fall of 1968, black students from UCSB joined the national civil rights movement to end racial segregation and exclusion of Black history and studies from college campuses.Triggered by the insensitivity of the administration and general campus life, they occupied North Hall and presented the administration with a set of demands. Such efforts led to the eventual creation of the Black Studies department and the Center for Black Studies.\n\nSimilar activism was happening outside of California. At Yale University, a committee headed by political scientist Robert Dahl recommended establishing an undergraduate major in African-American culture, one of the first such at an American university.\n\nWhen Ernie Davis from Syracuse University became the first African American to win the Heisman trophy in College football, it renewed debates about race in college campuses in the country. Inspired by the Davis win, civil rights movement and nationwide student activism, in 1969 Black and White students led by the Student African American Society (SAS) at Syracuse University marched in front of the building at Newhouse and demanded Black studies be taught at Syracuse. It existed as an independent, underfunded non-degree offering program from 1971 until 1979. In 1979 the program became the Department of African American Studies, offering degrees within the College of Arts and Sciences.\n\nOne of the major setbacks with Black Studies/African-American Studies Programs or departments is that there is a lack of financial resources available to student and faculty. Many universities and colleges around the country provided Black Studies programs with small budgets and therefore it is difficult for the department to purchase materials and hire staff. Because the budget allocated to Black Studies is limited some faculty are jointly appointed therefore, causing faculty to leave their home disciplines to teach a discipline of which they may not be familiar. Budgetary issues make it difficult for Black Studies Programs and departments to function, and promote themselves.\n\nSome critics claim that racism perpetrated by many administrators hinders the institutionalization of Black Studies at major universities. As with the case of UC Berkeley most of the Black Studies programs across the country were instituted because of the urging and demanding of black students to create the program. In many instances black students also called for the increased enrollment of black students and offer financial assistance to these students. Also seen in the case of UC Berkeley is the constant demand to have such a program, but place the power of control in the hands of black people. The idea was that black studies could not be “realistic” if it was not taught by someone who was not accustomed to the black experience. On many campuses directors of black studies have little to no autonomy—they do not have the power to hire or grant tenure to faculty. On many campuses an overall lack of respect for the discipline has caused instability for the students and for the program.\n\nIn the past thirty years there has been a steady decline of Black studies scholars.\n\nAfrican-American studies scholars have often explored the unique experiences of black boys/men. This line of research dates back to W.E.B. Dubois in his analysis of black male training in his book Souls of Black Folk. Though African-American studies as its own discipline has been in decline, its perpetuation as a sub-discipline in various social science fields (e.g., education, sociology, cultural anthropology, urban studies) has risen. This rise has coincided with the emergence of men's studies (also referred to as masculine studies). Since the early 1980s increasing interest in Black males among scholars and policy makers has resulted in a marked rise in the sub-discipline Black Male Studies. Today, numerous books, research articles, conferences, foundations, research centers and institutes, academic journals, initiatives, and scholarly collectives emphasize or focus entirely on the status of Black boys and men in society.\n\n\nNon-African-American specific:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1466", "title": "Assault", "text": "Assault\n\nAn assault is the act of inflicting physical harm or unwanted physical contact upon a person or, in some specific legal definitions, a threat or attempt to commit such an action. It is both a crime and a tort and, therefore, may result in either criminal and/or civil liability. Generally, the common law definition is the same in criminal and tort law. \n\nTraditionally, common law legal systems had separate definitions for assault and battery. When this distinction is observed, battery refers to the actual bodily contact, whereas assault refers to a credible threat or attempt to cause battery. Some jurisdictions combined the two offences into assault and battery, which then became widely referred to as \"assault\". The result is that in many of these jurisdictions, assault has taken on a definition that is more in line with the traditional definition of battery. The legal systems of civil law and Scots law have never distinguished assault from battery.\n\nLegal systems generally acknowledge that assaults can vary greatly in severity. In the United States, an assault can be charged as either a misdemeanor or a felony. In England and Wales and Australia, it can be charged as either common assault, assault occasioning actual bodily harm (ABH) or grievous bodily harm (GBH). Canada also has a three-tier system: assault, assault causing bodily harm and aggravated assault. Separate charges typically exist for sexual assaults, affray and assaulting a police officer. Assault may overlap with an attempted crime; for example an assault may be charged as an attempted murder if it was done with intent to kill.\n\nIn jurisdictions that make a distinction between the two, assault usually accompanies battery if the assailant both threatens to make unwanted contact and then carries through with this threat. See common assault. The elements of battery are (1) a volitional act (2) done for the purpose of causing a harmful or offensive contact with another person or under circumstances that make such contact substantially certain to occur and (3) which causes such contact. Thus throwing a rock at someone for the purpose of hitting them is a battery if the rock in fact strikes the person, and is an assault if the rock misses.\n\nAggravated assault is, in some jurisdictions, a stronger form of assault, usually using a deadly weapon. A person has committed an aggravated assault when that person attempts to:\n\nAggravated assault can also be charged in cases of attempted harm against police officers or other public servants.\n\nAlthough the range and precise application of defenses varies between jurisdictions, the following represents a list of the defenses that may apply to all levels of assault:\n\nExceptions exist to cover unsolicited physical contact which amount to normal social behavior known as de minimis harm. Assault can also be considered in cases involving the spitting on, or unwanted exposure of bodily fluids to others.\n\nConsent may be a complete or partial defense to assault. In some jurisdictions, most notably England, it is not a defense where the degree of injury is severe, as long as there is no legally recognized good reason for the assault. This can have important consequences when dealing with issues such as consensual sadomasochistic sexual activity, the most notable case being the Operation Spanner case. Legally recognized good reasons for consent include surgery, activities within the rules of a game (mixed martial arts, wrestling, boxing, or contact sports), bodily adornment (\"R v Wilson\" [1996] Crim LR 573), or horseplay (\"R v Jones\" [1987] Crim LR 123). However, any activity outside the rules of the game is not legally recognized as a defense of consent. In Scottish law, consent is not a defense for assault.\n\nPolice officers and court officials have a general power to use force for the purpose of performing an arrest or generally carrying out their official duties. Thus, a court officer taking possession of goods under a court order may use force if reasonably necessary.\n\nIn some jurisdictions such as Singapore, judicial corporal punishment is part of the legal system. The officers who administer the punishment have immunity from prosecution for assault.\n\nIn the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada, corporal punishment administered to children by their parent or legal guardian is not legally considered to be assault unless it is deemed to be excessive or unreasonable. What constitutes \"reasonable\" varies in both statutory law and case law. Unreasonable physical punishment may be charged as assault or under a separate statute for child abuse.\n\nMany countries, including some US states, also permit the use of corporal punishment for children in school. In English law, s. 58 Children Act 2004 limits the availability of the lawful correction defense to common assault under s. 39 Criminal Justice Act 1988.\n\nThis may or may not involve self-defense in that, using a reasonable degree of force to prevent another from committing a crime could involve preventing an assault, but it could be preventing a crime not involving the use of personal violence.\n\nSome jurisdictions allow force to be used in defense of property, to prevent damage either in its own right, or under one or both of the preceding classes of defense in that a threat or attempt to damage property might be considered a crime (in English law, under s5 Criminal Damage Act 1971 it may be argued that the defendant has a \"lawful excuse\" to damaging property during the defense and a defense under s3 Criminal Law Act 1967) subject to the need to deter vigilantes and excessive self-help. Furthermore, some jurisdictions, such as Ohio, allow residents in their homes to use force when ejecting an intruder. The resident merely needs to assert to the court that they felt threatened by the intruder's presence.\n\nThis defense is not universal: in New Zealand (for example) homeowners have been convicted of assault for attacking burglars.\n\nAssault is an offence under s. 265 of the Canadian Criminal Code. There is a wide range of the types of assault that can occur. Generally, an assault occurs when a person directly or indirectly applies force intentionally to another person without their consent. It can also occur when a person attempts to apply such force, or threatens to do so, without the consent of the other person. An injury need not occur for an assault to be committed, but the force used in the assault must be offensive in nature with an intention to apply force. It can be an assault to \"tap\", \"pinch\", \"push\", or direct another such minor action toward another, but an accidental application of force is not an assault.\n\nThe potential punishment for an assault in Canada varies depending on the manner in which the charge proceeds through the court system and the type of assault that is committed. The Criminal Code defines assault as a dual offence (indictable or summary offence). Police officers can arrest someone without a warrant for an assault if it is in the public's interest to do so notwithstanding S.495(2)(d) of the Code. This public interest is usually satisfied by preventing a continuation or repetition of the offence on the same victim.\n\nSome variations on the ordinary crime of assault include:\n\n\nAn individual cannot consent to an assault with a weapon, assault causing bodily harm, aggravated assault, or any sexual assault. Consent will also be vitiated if two people consent to fight but serious bodily harm is intended and caused (R v Paice; R v Jobidon). A person cannot consent to serious bodily harm.\n\nThe Indian Penal Code covers the punishments and types of assault in Chapter 16, sections 351 through 358.\nThe Code further explains that \"mere words do not amount to an assault. But the words which a person uses may give to their gestures or preparation such a meaning as may make those gestures or preparations amount to an assault\". Assault is in Indian criminal law an attempt to use criminal force (with criminal force being described in s.350). The attempt itself has been made an offence in India, as in other states.\n\nThe Criminal Code Act (chapter 29 of Part V; sections 351 to 365) creates a number of offences of assault. Assault is defined by section 252 of that Act. Assault is a misdemeanor punishable by one year imprisonment; assault with \"intent to have carnal knowledge of him or her\" or who indecently assaults another, or who commits other more-serious variants of assault (as defined in the Act) are guilty of a felony, and longer prison terms are provided for.\n\nMarshall Islands\n\nThe offence of assault is created by section 113 of the Criminal Code. A person is guilty of this offence if they unlawfully offer or attempt, with force or violence, to strike, beat, wound, or do bodily harm to, another.\n\nSection 2 of the Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997 creates the offence of assault, and section 3 of that Act creates the offence of assault causing harm.\n\nSouth African law does not draw the distinction between assault and battery. \"Assault\" is a common law crime defined as \"unlawfully and intentionally applying force to the person of another, or inspiring a belief in that other that force is immediately to be applied to him\". The law also recognises the crime of \"assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm\", where grievous bodily harm is defined as \"harm which in itself is such as seriously to interfere with health\". The common law crime of \"indecent assault\" was repealed by the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007, and replaced by a statutory crime of \"sexual assault\".\n\n\nAbolished offences:\n\n\nEnglish law provides for two offences of assault: common assault and battery. Assault (or common assault) is committed if one intentionally or recklessly causes another person to apprehend immediate and unlawful personal violence. \"Violence\" in this context means any unlawful touching, though there is some debate over whether the touching must also be hostile. Confusingly, the terms \"assault\" and \"common assault\" often encompass the separate offence of battery, even in statutory settings such as s 40(3)(a) of the Criminal Justice Act 1988.\n\nA common assault is an assault that lacks any of the aggravating features which Parliament has deemed serious enough to deserve a higher penalty. Section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 provides that common assault, like battery, is triable only in the magistrates' court in England and Wales (unless it is linked to a more serious offence, which is triable in the Crown Court). Additionally, if a Defendant has been charged on an indictment with assault occasioning actual bodily harm (ABH), or racially/religiously aggravated assault, then a jury in the Crown Court may acquit the Defendant of the more serious offence, but still convict of common assault if it finds common assault has been committed.\n\nAn assault which is aggravated by the scale of the injuries inflicted may be charged as offences causing \"actual bodily harm\" (ABH) or, in the severest cases, \"grievous bodily harm\" (GBH).\n\nOther aggravated assault charges refer to assaults carried out against a specific target or with a specific intent:\n\nIn Scots Law, assault is defined as an \"attack upon the person of another\". There is no distinction made in Scotland between assault and battery (which is not a term used in Scots law), although, as in England and Wales, assault can be occasioned without a \"physical\" attack on another's person, as demonstrated in \"Atkinson v. HM Advocate\" wherein the accused was found guilty of assaulting a shop assistant by simply jumping over a counter wearing a ski mask. The court said:\n\nScottish law also provides for a more serious charge of aggravated assault on the basis of such factors as severity of injury, the use of a weapon, or \"Hamesuken\" (to assault a person in their own home). The \"mens rea\" for assault is simply \"evil intent\", although this has been held to mean no more than that assault \"cannot be committed accidentally or recklessly or negligently\" as upheld in \"Lord Advocate's Reference No 2 of 1992\" where it was found that a \"hold-up\" in a shop justified as a joke would still constitute an offence.\n\nIt is a separate offence to assault on a constable in the execution of their duty, under Section 90, Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012 (previously Section 41 of the Police (Scotland) Act 1967) which provides that it is an offence for a person to, amongst other things, assault a constable in the execution of their duty or a person assisting a constable in the execution of their duty.\n\nSeveral offences of assault exist in Northern Ireland. The Offences against the Person Act 1861 creates the offences of:\nThe Criminal Justice (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 creates the offences of:\n\nThat Act formerly created the offence of 'Assault on a constable in the execution of his duty'. under section 7(1)(a), but that section has been superseded by section 66(1) of the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998 (c.32) which now provides that it is an offence for a person to, amongst other things, assault a constable in the execution of his duty, or a person assisting a constable in the execution of his duty.\n\nThe term 'assault', when used in legislation, commonly refers to both common assault and battery, even though the two offences remain distinct. Common assault involves intentionally or recklessly causing a person to apprehend the imminent infliction of unlawful force, whilst battery refers to the actual infliction of force.\n\nEach state has legislation relating to the act of assault, and offences against the act that constitute assault are heard in the Magistrates Court of that state or indictable offences are heard in a District or Supreme Court of that State. The legislation that defines assault of each state outline what the elements are that make up the assault, where the assault is sectioned in legislation or criminal codes, and the penalties that apply for the offence of assault.\n\nIn New South Wales, the Crimes Act 1900 defines a range of assault offences deemed more serious than common assault and which attract heavier penalties. These include:\n\n\n\nIn the United States, assault may be defined as an attempt to commit a battery. However, the crime of assault can encompass acts in which no battery is intended, but the defendant's act nonetheless creates reasonable fear in others that a battery will occur.\n\nAssault is typically treated as a misdemeanor and not as a felony (unless the victim is a law enforcement officer), or in New York State for example if the offender is a repeat offender. As a misdemeanor, however, it can still result in incarceration and in a criminal record. The more serious crime of aggravated assault is treated as a felony.\n\nFour elements were required at common law:\n\nSimple assault can be distinguished without the intent of injury upon another person. The violation of one's personal space or touching in a way the victim deemed inappropriate can be simple assault. In common law states an assault is not committed by merely, for example, swearing at another; without threat of battery, there can be no assault.\n\nAs the criminal law evolved, element one was weakened in most jurisdictions so that a reasonable fear of bodily injury would suffice. These four elements were eventually codified in most states.\n\nLaws on assault vary by state. Since each state has its own criminal laws, there is no universal assault law. Acts classified as assault in one state may be classified as battery, menacing, intimidation, reckless endangerment, etc. in another state. Modern American statutes may define assault as including:\n\nThe laws on assault differ significantly from state to state as demonstrated below.\n\nIn Kansas the law on assault states:\n\nIn New York State, assault (as defined in the New York State Penal Code Article 120) requires an actual injury. Other states define this as battery; there is no crime of battery in New York. However, in New York if a person threatens another person with imminent injury without engaging in physical contact, that is called \"menacing\". A person who engages in that behavior is guilty of aggravated harassment in the second degree (a Class A misdemeanor; punishable with up to one year incarceration, probation for an extended time, and a permanent criminal record) when they threaten to cause physical harm to another person, and guilty of aggravated harassment in the first degree (a Class E felony) if they have a previous conviction for the same offense. New York also has specific laws against hazing, when such threats are made as requirement to join an organization.\n\nNorth Dakota law states:\n\nIn Tennessee assault is defined as follows:\n\nStates vary on whether it is possible to commit an \"attempted assault\" since it can be considered a double inchoate offense.\n\nIn some states, consent is a complete defense to assault. In other jurisdictions, mutual consent is an incomplete defense, with the result that the misdemeanor is treated as a \"petty misdemeanor\".\n\nFurthermore, the crime of assault generally requires that both the perpetrator and the victim of an assault be human. Thus, there is no assault if an ox gores a man. However, the Unborn Victims of Violence Act of 2004 treats the fetus as a separate person for the purposes of assault and other violent crimes, under certain limited circumstances. See H.R. 1997 / P.L. 108-212.\n\nSome possible examples of defenses, mitigating circumstances, or failures of proof are:\n\nAssault in Ancient Greece was normally termed hubris. Contrary to modern usage, the term did not have the extended connotation of overweening pride, self-confidence or arrogance, often resulting in fatal retribution. In Ancient Greece, \"hubris\" referred to actions which, intentionally or not, shamed and humiliated the victim, and frequently the perpetrator as well. It was most evident in the public and private actions of the powerful and rich.\n\nViolations of the law against hubris included, what would today be termed, assault and battery; sexual crimes ranging from forcible rape of women or children to consensual but improper activities; or the theft of public or sacred property. Two well-known cases are found in the speeches of Demosthenes, a prominent statesman and orator in ancient Greece. These two examples occurred when first, Meidias punched Demosthenes in the face in the theater (Against Meidias), and second when (in Against Konon) a defendant allegedly assaulted a man and crowed over the victim.\n\nHubris, though not specifically defined, was a legal term and was considered a crime in classical Athens. It was also considered the greatest sin of the ancient Greek world. That was so because it not only was proof of excessive pride, but also resulted in violent acts by or to those involved. The category of acts constituting hubris for the ancient Greeks apparently broadened from the original specific reference to mutilation of a corpse, or a humiliation of a defeated foe, or irreverent, \"outrageous treatment\", in general.\n\nThe meaning was eventually further generalized in its modern English usage to apply to any outrageous act or exhibition of pride or disregard for basic moral laws. Such an act may be referred to as an \"act of hubris\", or the person committing the act may be said to be hubristic. Atë, Greek for 'ruin, folly, delusion', is the action performed by the hero, usually because of their hubris, or great pride, that leads to their death or downfall.\n\nCrucial to this definition are the ancient Greek concepts of honor (timē) and shame. The concept of timē included not only the exaltation of the one receiving honor, but also the shaming of the one overcome by the act of hubris. This concept of honor is akin to a zero-sum game. Rush Rehm simplifies this definition to the contemporary concept of \"insolence, contempt, and excessive violence\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10856882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10856882", "title": "Australian realism", "text": "Australian realism\n\nAustralian realism, also called Australian materialism, is a school of philosophy that flourished in the first half of the 20th century in several universities in Australia including the Australian National University, the University of Adelaide, and the University of Sydney, and whose central claim, as stated by leading theorist John Anderson, was that \"\"whatever exists\" … is real, that is to say it is a spatial and temporal situation or occurrence that is on \"the same level of reality\" as anything else that exists\". Coupled with this was Anderson's idea that \"every fact (which includes every “object”) is a complex situation: there are no simples, no atomic facts, no objects which cannot be, as it were, expanded into facts.\" Prominent players included Anderson, David Malet Armstrong, J. L. Mackie, Ullin Place, J. J. C. Smart, and David Stove. The label \"Australian realist\" was conferred on acolytes of Anderson by A. J. Baker in 1986, to mixed approval from those realist philosophers who happened to be Australian. David Malet Armstrong \"suggested, half-seriously, that 'the strong sunlight and harsh brown landscape of Australia force reality upon us'\".\n\nAustralian realism began after John Anderson accepted the Challis Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sydney in 1927. His students included philosophers such as John Passmore, J. L. Mackie, David Stove, Eugene Kamenka and David Malet Armstrong. Anderson viewed philosophy historically as a long argument beginning with Thales. Anderson proposed that there was nothing more to being than the spatio-temporal system and that a correct and coherent view of the world involved not only rejecting any sort of deity, but also the extraordinary entities postulated by so many philosophers, from at least the time of Plato to the present day. \n\nIndependently from the Andersonians, in Adelaide during the 1950s, the mind–brain identity theory was being developed by two former students of Gilbert Ryle, J. J. C. Smart (then Chair of Philosophy at the University of Adelaide) and Ullin Place.\n\n(1) All entities exist in spatio-temporal 'situations'. 'Situations' are all that exist. All situations have the same ontological status. There are no 'levels' of reality.\n\n(2) All situations have a propositional form — that is, all situations have the form of \"A is B\".\n\n(3) Reality is infinitely complex and plural. Every fact (which includes every “object”) is a complex situation: there are no simples, no atomic facts, no objects which cannot be expanded into facts.\n\n(4) All situations exist independent of knowledge of them. \n\n(5) Determinism: all entities — objects, events, situations — are caused. \n\n(6) Ethics is concerned with establishing and describing what is Good. This is a positive science. It is not normative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310649", "title": "Blue plaque", "text": "Blue plaque\n\nA blue plaque is a permanent sign installed in a public place in the United Kingdom and elsewhere to commemorate a link between that location and a famous person, event, or former building on the site, serving as a historical marker. The term is used in the United Kingdom in two different senses. It may be used narrowly and specifically to refer to the \"official\" scheme administered by English Heritage, and currently restricted to sites within Greater London; or it may be used less formally to encompass a number of similar schemes administered by organisations throughout the UK.\n\nThe \"official\" scheme traces its origins to that launched in 1866 in London, on the initiative of the politician William Ewart, to mark the homes and workplaces of famous people. It has been administered successively by the Society of Arts (1866–1901), the London County Council (1901–1965), the Greater London Council (1965–1986) and English Heritage (1986 to date). It remains focused on London (now defined as Greater London), although between 1998 and 2005, under a trial programme since discontinued, 34 plaques were erected elsewhere in England. The first such scheme in the world, it has directly or indirectly provided the inspiration and model for many others.\n\nMany other plaque schemes have since been initiated in the United Kingdom. Some are restricted to a specific geographical area, others to a particular theme of historical commemoration. They are administered by a range of bodies including local authorities, civic societies, residents' associations and other organisations such as the Transport Trust, the Royal Society of Chemistry, the Music Hall Guild of Great Britain and America and the British Comic Society. The plaques erected are made in a variety of designs, shapes, materials and colours: some are blue, others are not. However, the term \"blue plaque\" is often used informally to encompass all such schemes.\n\nThere are also commemorative plaque schemes throughout the world such as those in Paris, Rome, Oslo, Dublin; and in other cities in Australia, Canada, the Philippines, Russia and the United States. The forms these take vary, and they are more likely to be known as historical markers.\n\nThe original blue plaque scheme was established by the Society of Arts in 1867, and since 1986 has been run by English Heritage. It is the oldest such scheme in the world. Since 1984 English Heritage have commissioned Frank Ashworth to make the plaques which have then been inscribed by his wife, Sue, at their home in Cornwall.\n\nEnglish Heritage plans to erect an average of twelve new blue plaques each year in London. Many are unveiled by prominent public people: for example, in 2010 a plaque dedicated to John Lennon was unveiled in Montagu Square by Yoko Ono, at the house where the couple shot the cover of the album \"\".\n\nAfter being conceived by politician William Ewart in 1863, the scheme was initiated in 1866 by Ewart, Henry Cole and the Society of Arts (now the Royal Society of Arts), which erected plaques in a variety of shapes and colours.\n\nThe first plaque was unveiled in 1867 to commemorate Lord Byron at his birthplace, 24 Holles Street, Cavendish Square. This house was demolished in 1889. The earliest blue plaque to survive, also put up in 1867, commemorates Napoleon III in King Street, St James's. Byron’s plaque was blue, but the colour was changed by the manufacturer Minton, Hollins & Co to chocolate brown to save money.\n\nIn total the Society of Arts put up 35 plaques, fewer than half of which survive today. The Society only erected one plaque within the square-mile of the City of London, that to Samuel Johnson on his house in Gough Square, in 1876. In 1879, it was agreed that the City of London Corporation would be responsible for erecting plaques within the City to recognise its jurisdictional independence. This demarcation has remained ever since.\n\nIn 1901, the Society of Arts scheme was taken over by the London County Council (LCC), which gave much thought to the future design of the plaques. It was eventually decided to keep the basic shape and design of the Society's plaques, but to make them uniformly blue, with a laurel wreath and the LCC's title. Though this design was used consistently from 1903 to 1938, some experimentation occurred in the 1920s, and plaques were made in bronze, stone and lead. Shape and colour also varied.\n\nIn 1921, the most common (blue) plaque design was revised, as it was discovered that glazed ceramic Doulton ware was cheaper than the encaustic formerly used. In 1938, a new plaque design was prepared by an unnamed student at the LCC's Central School of Arts and Crafts and was approved by the committee. It omitted the decorative elements of earlier plaque designs, and allowed for lettering to be better spaced and enlarged. A white border was added to the design shortly after, and this has remained the standard ever since. No plaques were erected between 1915 and 1919, or between 1940 and 1947, owing to the two world wars. The LCC formalised the selection criteria for the scheme in 1954.\n\nWhen the LCC was abolished in 1965, the scheme was taken over by the Greater London Council (GLC). The principles of the scheme changed little, but now applied to the entire, much larger, administrative county of Greater London. The GLC was also keen to broaden the range of people commemorated. The GLC erected 252 plaques, the subjects including Sylvia Pankhurst, Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, and Mary Seacole.\n\nIn 1986, the GLC was disbanded and the blue plaques scheme passed to English Heritage. English Heritage erected more than 300 plaques in London.\n\nIn January 2013 English Heritage suspended proposals for plaques owing to funding cuts. The National Trust's chairman stated that his organisation might step in to save the scheme. In the event the scheme was relaunched by English Heritage in June 2014 with private funding (including support from a new donors' club, the Blue Plaques Club, and from property developer David Pearl). Two members of the advisory panel, Professor David Edgerton and author and critic Gillian Darley, resigned over this transmutation, concerned that the scheme had been \"reduced to a marketing tool for English Heritage\".\n\nIn April 2015, English Heritage was divided into two parts, Historic England (a statutory body), and the new English Heritage Trust (a charity, which took over the English Heritage operating name and logo). Responsibility for the blue plaque scheme passed to the English Heritage Trust.\n\nTo be eligible for an English Heritage blue plaque in London the famous person concerned must:\n\nIn cases of foreigners and overseas visitors, candidates should be of international reputation or significant standing in their own country.\n\nWith regards to the location of a plaque:\n\nOther schemes have different criteria, which are often less restrictive: in particular, it is common under other schemes for plaques to be erected to mark the sites of demolished buildings.\n\nAlmost all the proposals for English Heritage blue plaques are made by members of the public who write or email the organisation before submitting a formal proposal.\n\nEnglish Heritage's in-house historian researches the proposal, and the Blue Plaques Panel advises on which suggestions should be successful. This is composed of 9 people from various disciplines from across the country. The panel is chaired by Professor Ronald Hutton, and includes former Poet Laureate Professor Sir Andrew Motion and buildings historian Professor Gavin Stamp. The actor and broadcaster Stephen Fry was formerly a member of the panel, and wrote the foreword to the book \"Lived in London: Blue Plaques and the Stories Behind Them\" (2009).\n\nRoughly a third of proposals are approved in principle, and are placed on a shortlist. Because the scheme is so popular, and because a lot of detailed research has to be carried out, it takes about three years for each case to reach the top of the shortlist. Proposals not taken forward can only be re-proposed once 10 years have elapsed.\n\nA small minority of GLC and English Heritage plaques have been erected to commemorate events which took place at particular locations rather than the famous people who lived there.\n\nIn 1998, English Heritage initiated a trial national plaques scheme, and over the following years erected 34 plaques in Birmingham, Merseyside, Southampton and Portsmouth. The scheme was discontinued in 2005. Although English Heritage no longer erects plaques outside Greater London, it does provide advice and guidance to individuals and organisations interested or involved in doing so.\n\nThe popularity of English Heritage's London blue plaques scheme has meant that a number of comparable schemes have been established elsewhere in the United Kingdom. Many of these schemes also use blue plaques, often manufactured in metal or plastic rather than the ceramic used in London, but some feature plaques of different colours and shapes. In July 2012, English Heritage published a register of plaque schemes run by other organisations across England.\n\nThe criteria for selection varies greatly. Many schemes treat plaques primarily as memorials and place them on the sites of former buildings, in contrast to the strict English Heritage policy of only installing a plaque on the actual building in which a famous person lived or an event took place.\n\nThe Corporation of London continues to run its own plaque scheme for the City of London, where English Heritage does not erect plaques. City of London plaques are blue and ceramic, but are rectangular in shape and carry the City of London coat of arms. Because of the rapidity of change in the built environment within the City, a high proportion of Corporation of London plaques mark the sites of former buildings.\n\nMany of the 32 London boroughs also now have their own schemes, running alongside the English Heritage scheme. Westminster City Council runs a green plaque scheme, each plaque being sponsored by a group with a particular interest in its subject. The London Borough of Southwark started its own blue plaque scheme in 2003, under which the borough awards plaques through popular vote following public nomination: living people may be commemorated. The London Borough of Islington has a very similar green heritage plaque scheme, initiated in 2010.\n\nOther plaques may be erected by smaller groups, such as residents' associations. In 2007 The Hampstead Garden Suburb Residents Association erected a blue plaque in memory of Prime Minister Harold Wilson at 12 Southway as part of the centenary celebrations of Hampstead Garden Suburb.\n\nIn Northern Ireland the Ulster History Circle is one of a small number of groups administering blue plaques. Established in 1983, it has erected around 140 plaques. Belfast City Council also has a scheme.\n\nThe Birmingham Civic Society provides a blue plaque scheme in and around Birmingham: there are over 90 plaques commemorating notable former Birmingham residents and historical places of interest.\n\nA scheme in Manchester is co-ordinated by Manchester Art Gallery, to whom nominations can be submitted. Plaques must be funded by those who propose them. From 1960 to 1984 all plaques were ceramic, and blue in colour. From 1985, they were made of cast aluminium, colour-coded to reflect the type of commemoration (blue for people; red for events in the city's social history; black for buildings of architectural or historic interest; green for other subjects). After a period of abeyance, the scheme has been revived and all plaques are now patinated bronze.\nA blue plaque at Oldham's Tommyfield Market (Greater Manchester) marks the 1860s origin of the fish and chip shop and fast food industries.\n\nBournemouth Borough Council has unveiled more than 30 blue plaques. Its first plaque was unveiled on 31 October 1937 to Lewis Tregonwell, who built the first house in what is now Bournemouth. Two further plaques followed in 1957 and 1975 to writer Robert Louis Stevenson and poet Rupert Brooke respectively. The first blue plaque was unveiled on 30 June 1985 dedicated to Percy Florence Shelley.\n\nThe Hertfordshire town of Berkhamsted unveiled a set of 32 blue plaques in 2000 on some of the town's most significant buildings, including Berkhamsted Castle, the birthplace of writer Graham Greene and buildings associated with the poet William Cowper, John Incent (a Dean of St. Paul's Cathedral) and Clementine Churchill. The plaques feature in a Heritage Trail promoted by the town's council.\nWolverhampton has over 90 blue plaques erected by the Wolverhampton Civic and Historical Society in a scheme which started in 1983. One of the more unusual plaques marks the location of the World Altitude Balloon Record on Friday 5 September 1862.\n\nThe Essex town of Loughton inaugurated a scheme in 1997 following a programme allowing for three new plaques a year; 39 had been erected by 2015. The aim is to stimulate public interest in the town's heritage. Among the Loughton blue plaques is that to Mary Anne Clarke, which is in fact a pair of identical plaques, one on the back, and one on the front, of her house, Loughton Lodge.\n\nIn 2005, Malvern Civic Society and Malvern Hills District council announced that blue plaques would be placed on buildings in Malvern that were associated with famous people, including Franklin D. Roosevelt. Since then blue plaques have been erected to commemorate C. S. Lewis, Florence Nightingale, Charles Darwin and Haile Selassie.\n\nIn 2010, Derbyshire County Council allowed its residents to vote via the Internet on a shortlist of notable historical figures to be commemorated in a local blue plaque scheme. The first six plaques commemorated industrialist Richard Arkwright junior (Bakewell), Olave Baden-Powell and the \"Father of Railways\" George Stephenson (Chesterfield), the mathematical prodigy Jedediah Buxton (Elmton), actor Arthur Lowe (Hayfield), and architect Joseph Paxton (Chatsworth House).\nA long-running blue plaque scheme is in operation in Gateshead. Run by the council, the scheme was registered with English Heritage in 1970 and 29 blue plaques were installed between the inception of the scheme in 1977 and the publication of a commemorative document in 2010. The Gateshead scheme aims to highlight notable persons who lived in the borough, notable buildings within it and important historical events. Some of those commemorated through the scheme include Geordie Ridley, author of the Blaydon Races, William Wailes, a noted 19th century proponent of stained glass who lived in a \"fairytale mansion\" at Saltwell Park, the industrialist and co-founder of Clarke Chapman, William Clarke and Sir Joseph Swan, the inventor of the incandescent light bulb whose house in Low Fell was the first in the world to be illuminated by electric light.\n\nFurther Gateshead blue plaques have since been erected. In 2011 plaques commemorating William Henry Brockett, editor of the first Gateshead newspaper, Dr. Alfred Cox and Sister Winifred Laver, a missionary who had been awarded various decorations, including the British Empire Medal, during her lifetime, were installed. In 2012, further blue plaques were unveiled in commemoration of Vincent Litchfield Raven, an \"engineering genius\" who was the chief mechanical engineer at the North Eastern Railway where his successes in steam engineering ultimately frustrated his own visionary work on the possibility of electric trains, and the 19th century Felling mining disasters.\n\nIn 2017 in Aldershot in Hampshire the Aldershot Civic Society unveiled its first blue plaque to comedian and actor Arthur English at the house where he had been born. It is intended that this will be the first in a series dedicated to notable local people or historic buildings.\n\nThere also exist several nationwide schemes sponsored by special-interest bodies, which erect plaques at sites or buildings with historical associations within their particular sphere of activity.\n\n\nCommemorative plaque schemes (not all of them using blue plaques) also exist most notably in the cities of Paris, Rome, Oslo and Dublin.\n\nIn the United States, commemorative plaques similar to those used in Europe are called historical markers. These vary in colour and design by state. The National Trust for Historic Preservation or the U.S. government, through the National Register of Historic Places, can bestow historical status, with a small bronze marker affixed to the building. Other markers are erected by state historical commissions and similar authorities, local governments or civic groups. These can also be affixed to the building, but are frequently free-standing markers with the text on each side, or, in larger instances, beginning on one side and continuing to the other.\n\nMost states in Australia have historic marker programs. For example, in Victoria all places and objects listed on the Victorian Heritage Register are entitled to a blue plaque. The Mechanics' Institutes of Victoria Inc. have also adopted a blue plaques program, and more than 30 Mechanics' Institutes throughout the state have installed plaques on their buildings.\n\nThe Philippines have more than 1,500 historical markers installed for numerous personalities, places, structures, and events around the country. There are also a number of ones installed outside the country. The government agency tasked for this is the National Historical Commission of the Philippines (NHCP), although local government units can also install markers of local significance. The policy of installing markers started in 1933. The initial markers were placed in 1934.\n\n"}
{"id": "8253923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8253923", "title": "Centre International des Civilisations Bantu", "text": "Centre International des Civilisations Bantu\n\nThe Centre International des Civilisations Bantu (CICIBA) is a cultural organization based in Libreville, Gabon. Established at the initiative of Gabonese president Omar Bongo on January 8, 1983, it is dedicated to the study of the Bantu peoples.\nIn 2012, it was announced that the center would be rehabilitated after its abandonment in 1988 for lack of funding.\n\nCICIBA's member nations include Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, and Zambia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9722260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9722260", "title": "Chemical substance", "text": "Chemical substance\n\nA chemical substance is a form of matter having constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be simple substances, chemical compounds, or alloys. Chemical elements may or may not be included in the definition, depending on expert viewpoint.\n\nChemical substances are often called 'pure' to set them apart from mixtures. A common example of a chemical substance is pure water; it has the same properties and the same ratio of hydrogen to oxygen whether it is isolated from a river or made in a laboratory. Other chemical substances commonly encountered in pure form are diamond (carbon), gold, table salt (sodium chloride) and refined sugar (sucrose). However, in practice, no substance is entirely pure, and chemical purity is specified according to the intended use of the chemical.\n\nChemical substances exist as solids, liquids, gases, or plasma, and may change between these phases of matter with changes in temperature or pressure. Chemical substances may be combined or converted to others by means of chemical reactions.\n\nForms of energy, such as light and heat, are not matter, and are thus not \"substances\" in this regard.\n\nA chemical substance may well be defined as \"any material with a definite chemical composition\" in an introductory general chemistry textbook. According to this definition a chemical substance can either be a pure chemical element or a pure chemical compound. But, there are exceptions to this definition; a pure substance can also be defined as a form of matter that has both definite composition and distinct properties. The chemical substance index published by CAS also includes several alloys of uncertain composition. Non-stoichiometric compounds are a special case (in inorganic chemistry) that violates the law of constant composition, and for them, it is sometimes difficult to draw the line between a mixture and a compound, as in the case of palladium hydride. Broader definitions of chemicals or chemical substances can be found, for example: \"the term 'chemical substance' means any organic or inorganic substance of a particular molecular identity, including – (i) any combination of such substances occurring in whole or in part as a result of a chemical reaction or occurring in nature\".\n\nIn geology, substances of uniform composition are called minerals, while physical mixtures (aggregates) of several minerals (different substances) are defined as rocks. Many minerals, however, mutually dissolve into solid solutions, such that a single rock is a uniform substance despite being a mixture in stoichiometric terms. Feldspars are a common example: anorthoclase is an alkali aluminum silicate, where the alkali metal is interchangeably either sodium or potassium.\n\nIn law, \"chemical substances\" may include both pure substances and mixtures with a defined composition or manufacturing process. For example, the EU regulation REACH defines \"monoconstituent substances\", \"multiconstituent substances\" and \"substances of unknown or variable composition\". The latter two consist of multiple chemical substances; however, their identity can be established either by direct chemical analysis or reference to a single manufacturing process. For example, charcoal is an extremely complex, partially polymeric mixture that can be defined by its manufacturing process. Therefore, although the exact chemical identity is unknown, identification can be made to a sufficient accuracy. The CAS index also includes mixtures.\n\nPolymers almost always appear as mixtures of molecules of multiple molar masses, each of which could be considered a separate chemical substance. However, the polymer may be defined by a known precursor or reaction(s) and the molar mass distribution. For example, polyethylene is a mixture of very long chains of -CH- repeating units, and is generally sold in several molar mass distributions, LDPE, MDPE, HDPE and UHMWPE.\n\nThe concept of a \"chemical substance\" became firmly established in the late eighteenth century after work by the chemist Joseph Proust on the composition of some pure chemical compounds such as basic copper carbonate. He deduced that, \"All samples of a compound have the same composition; that is, all samples have the same proportions, by mass, of the elements present in the compound.\" This is now known as the law of constant composition. Later with the advancement of methods for chemical synthesis particularly in the realm of organic chemistry; the discovery of many more chemical elements and new techniques in the realm of analytical chemistry used for isolation and purification of elements and compounds from chemicals that led to the establishment of modern chemistry, the concept was defined as is found in most chemistry textbooks. However, there are some controversies regarding this definition mainly because the large number of chemical substances reported in chemistry literature need to be indexed.\n\nIsomerism caused much consternation to early researchers, since isomers have exactly the same composition, but differ in configuration (arrangement) of the atoms. For example, there was much speculation for the chemical identity of benzene, until the correct structure was described by Friedrich August Kekulé. Likewise, the idea of stereoisomerism – that atoms have rigid three-dimensional structure and can thus form isomers that differ only in their three-dimensional arrangement – was another crucial step in understanding the concept of distinct chemical substances. For example, tartaric acid has three distinct isomers, a pair of diastereomers with one diastereomer forming two enantiomers.\n\nAn element is a chemical substance made up of a particular kind of atom and hence cannot be broken down or transformed by a chemical reaction into a different element, though it can be transmuted into another element through a nuclear reaction. This is so, because all of the atoms in a sample of an element have the same number of protons, though they may be different isotopes, with differing numbers of neutrons.\n\nAs of 2012, there are 118 known elements, about 80 of which are stable – that is, they do not change by radioactive decay into other elements. Some elements can occur as more than a single chemical substance (allotropes). For instance, oxygen exists as both diatomic oxygen (O) and ozone (O). The majority of elements are classified as metals. These are elements with a characteristic lustre such as iron, copper, and gold. Metals typically conduct electricity and heat well, and they are malleable and ductile. Around a dozen elements, such as carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen, are classified as non-metals. Non-metals lack the metallic properties described above, they also have a high electronegativity and a tendency to form negative ions. Certain elements such as silicon sometimes resemble metals and sometimes resemble non-metals, and are known as metalloids.\n\nA pure chemical compound is a chemical substance that is composed of a particular set of molecules or ions. Two or more elements combined into one substance through a chemical reaction form a chemical compound. All compounds are substances, but not all substances are compounds.\n\nA chemical compound can be either atoms bonded together in molecules or crystals in which atoms, molecules or ions form a crystalline lattice. Compounds based primarily on carbon and hydrogen atoms are called organic compounds, and all others are called inorganic compounds. Compounds containing bonds between carbon and a metal are called organometallic compounds.\n\nCompounds in which components share electrons are known as covalent compounds. Compounds consisting of oppositely charged ions are known as ionic compounds, or salts.\n\nIn organic chemistry, there can be more than one chemical compound with the same composition and molecular weight. Generally, these are called isomers. Isomers usually have substantially different chemical properties, and often may be isolated without spontaneously interconverting. A common example is glucose vs. fructose. The former is an aldehyde, the latter is a ketone. Their interconversion requires either enzymatic or acid-base catalysis.\n\nHowever, tautomers are an exception: the isomerization occurs spontaneously in ordinary conditions, such that a pure substance cannot be isolated into its tautomers, even if these can be identified spectroscopically or even isolated in special conditions. A common example is glucose, which has open-chain and ring forms. One cannot manufacture pure open-chain glucose because glucose spontaneously cyclizes to the hemiacetal form.\n\nAll matter consists of various elements and chemical compounds, but these are often intimately mixed together. Mixtures contain more than one chemical substance, and they do not have a fixed composition. In principle, they can be separated into the component substances by purely mechanical processes. Butter, soil and wood are common examples of mixtures.\n\nGrey iron metal and yellow sulfur are both chemical elements, and they can be mixed together in any ratio to form a yellow-grey mixture. No chemical process occurs, and the material can be identified as a mixture by the fact that the sulfur and the iron can be separated by a mechanical process, such as using a magnet to attract the iron away from the sulfur.\n\nIn contrast, if iron and sulfur are heated together in a certain ratio (1 atom of iron for each atom of sulfur, or by weight, 56 grams (1 mol) of iron to 32 grams (1 mol) of sulfur), a chemical reaction takes place and a new substance is formed, the compound iron(II) sulfide, with chemical formula FeS. The resulting compound has all the properties of a chemical substance and is not a mixture. Iron(II) sulfide has its own distinct properties such as melting point and solubility, and the two elements cannot be separated using normal mechanical processes; a magnet will be unable to recover the iron, since there is no metallic iron present in the compound.\n\nWhile the term \"chemical substance\" is a precise technical term that is synonymous with \"chemical\" for chemists, the word \"chemical\" is used in general usage in the English speaking world to refer to both (pure) chemical substances and mixtures (often called \"compounds\"), and especially when produced or purified in a laboratory or an industrial process. In other words, the chemical substances of which fruits and vegetables, for example, are naturally composed even when growing wild are not called \"chemicals\" in general usage. In countries that require a list of ingredients in products, the \"chemicals\" listed are industrially produced \"chemical substances\". The word \"chemical\" is also often used to refer to addictive, narcotic, or mind-altering drugs.\n\nWithin the chemical industry, manufactured \"chemicals\" are chemical substances, which can be classified by production volume into bulk chemicals, fine chemicals and chemicals found in research only:\nThe cause of the difference in production volume is the complexity of the molecular structure of the chemical. Bulk chemicals are usually much less complex. While fine chemicals may be more complex, many of them are simple enough to be sold as \"building blocks\" in the synthesis of more complex molecules targeted for single use, as named above. The \"production\" of a chemical includes not only its synthesis but also its purification to eliminate by-products and impurities involved in the synthesis. The last step in production should be the analysis of batch lots of chemicals in order to identify and quantify the percentages of impurities for the buyer of the chemicals. The required purity and analysis depends on the application, but higher tolerance of impurities is usually expected in the production of bulk chemicals. Thus, the user of the chemical in the US might choose between the bulk or \"technical grade\" with higher amounts of impurities or a much purer \"pharmaceutical grade\" (labeled \"USP\", United States Pharmacopeia). \"Chemicals\" in the commercial and legal sense may also include mixtures of highly variable composition, as they are products made to a technical specification instead of particular chemical substances. For example, gasoline is not a single chemical compound or even a particular mixture: different gasolines can have very different chemical compositions, as \"gasoline\" is primarily defined through source, properties and octane rating.\n\nEvery chemical substance has one or more systematic names, usually named according to the IUPAC rules for naming. An alternative system is used by the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS).\n\nMany compounds are also known by their more common, simpler names, many of which predate the systematic name. For example, the long-known sugar glucose is now systematically named 6-(hydroxymethyl)oxane-2,3,4,5-tetrol. Natural products and pharmaceuticals are also given simpler names, for example the mild pain-killer Naproxen is the more common name for the chemical compound (S)-6-methoxy-α-methyl-2-naphthaleneacetic acid.\n\nChemists frequently refer to chemical compounds using chemical formulae or molecular structure of the compound. There has been a phenomenal growth in the number of chemical compounds being synthesized (or isolated), and then reported in the scientific literature by professional chemists around the world. An enormous number of chemical compounds are possible through the chemical combination of the known chemical elements. As of May 2011, about sixty million chemical compounds are known. The names of many of these compounds are often nontrivial and hence not very easy to remember or cite accurately. Also it is difficult to keep the track of them in the literature. Several international organizations like IUPAC and CAS have initiated steps to make such tasks easier. CAS provides the abstracting services of the chemical literature, and provides a numerical identifier, known as CAS registry number to each chemical substance that has been reported in the chemical literature (such as chemistry journals and patents). This information is compiled as a database and is popularly known as the Chemical substances index. Other computer-friendly systems that have been developed for substance information, are: SMILES and the International Chemical Identifier or InChI.\n\nOften a pure substance needs to be isolated from a mixture, for example from a natural source (where a sample often contains numerous chemical substances) or after a chemical reaction (which often give mixtures of chemical substances).\n\n"}
{"id": "26280764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26280764", "title": "China Time-honored Brand", "text": "China Time-honored Brand\n\nChina Time-honored Brand (Chinese: Zhonghua lao zihao 中华老字号 or simply lao zihao 老字号) is a title granted by the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China to Chinese enterprises that existed before 1956, sell products, techniques or services passed down through generations, have distinct Chinese cultural characteristics and are widely recognized by society.\n\nThis title was first granted soon after the foundation of the PRC in 1949. The current eligibility criteria were set in 2006, when the Ministry of Commerce revised them for the last time.\n\nThere are currently around 1,000 brands granted this title, among which are Tongrentang (traditional Chinese medicine), Quanjude (Peking Duck) and Go Believe (baozi or steamed dumpling). Many of the shops have a history of over 400 years, and in modern times have begun to expand via mass commercialization of their products.\n\nQuanjude 全聚德 — Peking duck restaurant <br>\nDonglaishun 东来顺 — hotpot restaurant <br>\nDouyichu 都一处 — restaurant famous for its \"shaomai\" <br>\nBianyifang 便宜坊 — another Peking duck restaurant <br>\nGoubuli 狗不理 — baozi restaurant (founded in Tianjin, a city near Beijing) <br>\nHundun hou 馄饨侯 — wonton (hundun) restaurant <br>\nLiubiju 六必居 — sells preserved vegetables and sauces <br>\nRongbaozhai 荣宝斋 — sells works of art (notably wall scrolls) <br>\nTongrentang 同仁堂 — supplier of medicinal herbs used in Traditional Chinese Medicine <br>\nZhang Yiyuan 张一元 — teahouse <br>\nRuifuxiang 瑞蚨祥 — silk clothing and qipaos <br>\nNeiliansheng 内联升 — old Chinese cloth shoes <br>\nShengxifu 盛锡福 — hats\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21755570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21755570", "title": "City of Literature", "text": "City of Literature\n\nUNESCO's City of Literature programme is part of a wider Creative Cities Network which was launched in 2004 and is currently made up of 180 UNESCO Creative Cities globally. Members are drawn from 72 countries and cover seven creative fields: Crafts & Folk Art, Design, Film, Gastronomy, Literature, Music, and Media Arts. The Network was born out of UNESCO's Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity initiative which was created in 2002. The Creative City Network’s aim is to \"promote the social, economic and cultural development of cities in both the developed and the developing world.\" The cities in the network promote their local creative scene and conform to UNESCO’s goal of fostering cultural diversity. They recognise past, present and future: a strong cultural heritage, a vibrant and diverse contemporary cultural scene, and aspirations to extend culture to the next generation at home and to other cities in a global partnership. , 28 cities have been designated as part of the City of Literature programme.\n\nThe UNESCO Cities of Literature network of 28 cities represents 6 continents and 23 countries, and a combined population of over 26 million.\n\nTo be approved as a City of Literature, cities need to meet a number of criteria set by UNESCO. Designated UNESCO Cities of Literature share similar characteristics:\n\nCities submit bids to UNESCO to be designated a City of Literature. The designations are monitored and reviewed every four years by UNESCO.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23088082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23088082", "title": "Click (novel)", "text": "Click (novel)\n\nClick (2007) is a work of collaborative fiction written by David Almond, Eoin Colfer, Roddy Doyle, Deborah Ellis, Nick Hornby, Margo Lanagan, Gregory Maguire, Ruth Ozeki, Linda Sue Park, and Tim Wynne-Jones. It is about a photographer named George G. Keane, his grandchildren, Jason and Margaret, and how they affected the lives of different people, such as a Russian prisoner and an Irish teen.\n\nGeorge G. Keane, or \"Gee\", was a photographer who travelled around the world taking pictures. In Gee's will he leaves his granddaughter, Margaret, a box containing seven lettered boxes and a message stating \"throw them all back\". Each lettered box contains a shell. She discovers that each letter on each box represents the continent that the shell came from, and that her grandfather intended for her to put them back where they came from over her lifetime. This is a gift that will last Maggie's whole life. Meanwhile, Jason, Margaret's brother, is left with a camera and uses it to construct multiple photo albums, one of which consisted of a girl doing ordinary things throughout the day while holding a large piece of glass. The last chapter of the book depicts an elderly Margaret living in the future with her great-niece, watching a documentary about her grandfather, her brother, and herself.\n\nThe novel was well received by the online community, most notably in an article by NPR.\n\n"}
{"id": "15656444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15656444", "title": "Comediehuset", "text": "Comediehuset\n\nComediehuset (The Comedy House) or Sillgateteatern (The Herring-Street Theatre) was a Swedish theatre, active in Gothenburg from 1779 until 1833. It was the first permanent Public theatre in Gothenburg and the only one until 1816. It was located at the corner of Sillgatan, the Herring-street (now Postgatan) and Nedre Kvarnbergsgatan. \n\nPrior to the foundation of the first theater, travelling theatre companies had visited Gothenburg, the first one being recorded in 1696. They were foreign, usually from Germany, but by the 1750s, the Swedish theater company of Peter Lindahl regularly visited the town. During the 1770s, amateur theater became popular among the wealthy city elite due to the theater interest of Gustav III of Sweden, and the family of Alströmer and Hall staged amateur theater and became patrons of theater. \n\nIn about 1775, Patrik Alströmer and his brother Clas Alströmer, had a proper theater building constructed, known as the Comedy House. Originally of wood, it was rebuilt in stone in 1782. This was to become the 4th public theater in Sweden, after Björngårdsteatern (1640) and Bollhuset (1667) in Stockholm, and the second outside of the capital, after Egges teater in Norrköping (1762), and prior to Spektakelhuset in Karlskrona and Spektakelhuset in Gävle (both founded in 1784). This was a part of a great enthusiasm and development of the theatre had begun in the country after King Gustav III of Sweden had founded the Royal Swedish Opera in 1773. Many theaters were founded in smaller cities around Sweden in the 18th-century, but Comediehuset was one of few to have success enough to last past a few years. \n\nIt is not exactly known when the theater was first used. Likely, it was used by travelling theater companies from the start. From 1779, however, the building was used by the theater company Gemenasiska sällskapet. It was managed by, in succession, Johan von Blanc (1779-86); Gustaf Simson (1786-87) and finally by Lovisa Simson (1787-92) in companionship with Andreas Widerberg (1786-90). \n\nThe standard of the Comediehuset was considered high. The theater's outside the capital was not as closely guarded by the authorities, and controversial plays often had premier sooner in Gothenburg, Karlskrona and Norrköping earlier than in Stockholm. \"The Marriage of Figaro\" had its premier in Sweden in Comediehuset in 1786, and \"Hamlet\" in 1787, much sooner than in the Royal Dramatic Theatre in Stockholm. Comediehuset also arranged public masquerade balls, concerts, opera and ballet, and had its own restaurant. Travelling guests artists also performed there, often foreign, such as French pantomime artists, Italian Opera and English circus artists. \n\nIn 1792, the theater was dissolved. However, it continued to be used by travelling theater companies. From 1793 until 1800, it was used by the company of Johan Anton Lindqvist, during which it in effect continued as a permanent theater. The following years, it was temporarily used by a succession of theater companies. \n\nFrom 1810 until 1816, it was again permanently used by Johan Anton Lindqvist, until the building was deemed unsuitable and Lindqvist moved his theater to the second theater in Gothenburg, the newly established \"Segerlindska teatern\" (1816–1892), which was also called Stora teatern and Mindre teatern (from 1864), which in its turn was replaced by \"Stora Teatern\", founded in 1859. \n\nAfter repairs, Comediehuset was temporarily used for some performances until it was closed in 1833. The empty building burnt down 13 March 1867.\n\n"}
{"id": "338785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338785", "title": "Denes nad Makedonija", "text": "Denes nad Makedonija\n\n\"\" (, , ) is the national anthem of Macedonia. Both the music and lyrics date from the early 1940s. Todor Skalovski composed the music, while the lyrics were written by Vlado Maleski. It was adopted as the Macedonian national anthem in 1992, a year after the state's independence was declared from Yugoslavia. Before its adoption as the Macedonian national anthem, it was used as the regional anthem of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, a constituent state of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe lyrics of \"Denes nad Makedonija\" were penned by Vlado Maleski, a writer who was active in the Partisan movement during World War II. In particular, he took charge of Radio Skoplje in December 1944, penned the manuscript for the first Macedonian-language movie, sat on the editorial board of the first Macedonian publishing house, and was part of the Commission for Language and Orthography that submitted recommendations to the government on standardizing the Macedonian alphabet, which were subsequently accepted. For his extensive contributions to the country's literature, Maleski is regarded as part of \"the first generation of Macedonian prose writers\".\n\nThe musical portion was composed by Todor Skalovski, one of Macedonia's most distinguished composers who also served as the conductor of its opera. He is also regarded as one of the trailblazers in composing music inspired by and incorporating Macedonian culture and mythology. The song was first played in 1942, among groups affiliated with the communist and Partisan resistance in Struga (which also happens to be Maleski's birthplace). According to oral recounts, the hymn was played by Maleski himself on New Year's Eve in the presence of 24 youths, whose identities were subsequently documented in writing only in 1981. Even though the resistance consisted of fighters from the different ethnic groups across Yugoslavia, the aforementioned youths are believed to have all identified as Macedonians. From the end of the war, it was utilized – albeit unofficially – as the state anthem of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia (which was part of Yugoslavia at the time) until 1989. On April 14 of that year, the socialist republic's Assembly amended the Constitution of 1974 to expressly affirm \"Denes nad Makedonija\" as its official state anthem. This change was short-lived, however, as the Assembly declared Macedonia's sovereignty two years later in January. This was approved on September 8, 1991, in a referendum that saw Macedonians vote overwhelmingly in favour of independence.\n\nSoon after independence, the country's assembly held a contest to determine a national anthem for the new sovereign state. \"Denes nad Makedonija\" was one of several candidates in contention – the others in the running were \"Himma\" (, ) by Taki Hrisik and \"Dani bideš večna\" (meaning \"That You Should be Eternal\") by Aleksandar Džambazov – and ended up finishing runner-up in the final results. In spite of this, most of the Assembly Commission voted to make it the national anthem of the state, and it was duly adopted on August 11, 1992.\n\n\"Denes nad Makedonija\" consists of four stanzas, none of which have been codified by legislation. The second stanza, however, has been omitted from the recognized lyrics of the national anthem posted on government websites.\n\nThe lyrics of \"Denes nad Makedonija\" are reflective of a military marching song, which is fitting given its connection to the Yugoslav Macedonian theatre of the Second World War. They are not a call to arms for Macedonians; rather, the hymn uses imagery to take the person singing it back to the time the anthem was written, and purports that they themselves were engaging in combat at the time. Furthermore, the lyrics previously alluded to the concepts of mothers and motherhood (specifically in the second stanza). This is in line with the national anthems – both past and present – of other Southeast European countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina (\"Jedna si jedina\"), Croatia (\"Horvatska domovina\"), and Montenegro (\"Oj, svijetla majska zoro\"). It discussed how mothers mourn for their fallen sons, who died fighting for the rights and liberty of their country. They are comforted for their loss by being reminded of the bravery of their sons and the nobleness of the cause for which they died. Although this theme has been described as a \"standard anthemic device\", it was subsequently expunged from the official words of the anthem.\n\nThe Republic of Macedonia's Sobranie (legislative chamber) passed legislation titled \"The Law on the Anthem of the Republic of Macedonia\" on August 11, 1992. This officially adopted \"Denes nad Makedonija\" as the national anthem of the then-nascent country, with Article 2 specifically confirming the song's status as such. However, it did not stipulate which stanzas were to be recognized as official. Curiously, the statute did not technically pass with the requisite two-thirds majority as stipulated by Article 5 of the country's constitution for proposals concerning national symbols (the anthem, the flag, and the national emblem). Although 88 out of the 120 members of the assembly voted for it, representatives elected from the Albanian community were not involved.\n\n"}
{"id": "5477656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5477656", "title": "Department of Tourism (Philippines)", "text": "Department of Tourism (Philippines)\n\nThe Department of Tourism (, DOT) is the executive department of the Philippine government responsible for the regulation of the Philippine tourism industry and the promotion of the Philippines as a tourist destination.\n\nStarted as a private initiative to promote the Philippines as a major travel destination, the Philippine Tourist & Travel Association was organized in 1950. In 1956, the Board of Travel and Tourist Industry was created by Congress As stipulated in the Integrated Reorganization Plan in 1972 sanctioned as a law under Presidential Decree No. 1, as amended, the Department of Trade and Tourism was established, reorganizing the then Department of Commerce and Industry. A Philippine Tourism Commission was created under the unified Trade and Tourism Department to oversee the growth of the tourism industry as a source of economic benefit for the country. \n\nIn 1973, President Ferdinand Marcos created a new cabinet-level Department of Tourism (DOT) by splitting the Department of Trade and Tourism into two separate departments. Included in the new Department of Tourism, the agency Philippine Tourism Authority (PTA) and the Philippine Convention Bureau (PCB) were created. The Department of Tourism was then renamed Ministry of Tourism as a result of the shift in the form of government pursuant to the enforcement of the 1973 Constitution.\n\nIn 1986, under Executive Order Nos. 120 and 120-A signed by President Corazon Aquino, the Department of Tourism was reorganized and, correspondingly, the Convention Bureau was renamed the Philippine Convention and Visitors Corporation, and the Intramuros Administration was attached, previously being under the defunct Ministry of Human Settlements. In 1998, the Department of Tourism assumed a prominent role in culmination of centennial celebration of the country's independence from the Spanish Empire in 1898.\n\nIn 2003, the Department of Tourism initiated one of its most successful tourism promotion project, \"Visit Philippines 2003\", under Secretary (now Senator) Richard J. Gordon.\n\nThe latest improvements in the tourism industry in the country came about with the passage of Republic Act No. 9593 or the \"Tourism Act of 2009.\"\n\nThe Department is headed by the Secretary of Tourism (Philippines), with the following four undersecretaries and assistant secretaries.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1520865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520865", "title": "Differential Education Achievement", "text": "Differential Education Achievement\n\nDifferential Educational Achievement (DEA) is a sociological term often given to a concept that disagrees with some of the functionalist views on education.\n\nMany functionalists believe that an individual's academic success depends completely upon that person's IQ (intelligence quotient) and the effort they apply to their studies. They also believe that society works in a meritocratic system: that people work for what they achieve, and achieve what they deserve, according to their own merit and effort, i.e., they work hard to get the best jobs in later life.\n\nSome other sociologists do not concur with this idea. They think that other factors have a more prominent impact on one's education. These factors may include social class background, gender and ethnicity. \n\nMarxists believe that this is due to social class, and that in education only the ruling class values are transmitted. This means that working-class people find it difficult to connect with the education system. In this respect, according to this theory, many people from less affluent backgrounds are academically disadvantaged from the very start.\n\n"}
{"id": "5832052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832052", "title": "Doll i' the Grass", "text": "Doll i' the Grass\n\nDoll i' the Grass is a Norwegian fairy tale collected by Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe in their \"Norske Folkeeventyr\".\n\nIt is Aarne-Thompson type 402, Animal Brides. Another tale of this type is \"The Frog Princess\".\n\nA king sent his twelve sons out to find brides, laying on them the condition that their brides could spin, weave, and sew a shirt in a day, and giving them each a mail coat and a horse. When they had gone a distance, they refused to let the youngest go with them, because he was useless. A little girl asked him to come see Doll i' the Grass, and he went. Doll i' the Grass asked him his troubles, and he told her but said she was so lovely, though small, he would be happy if she consented to be his wife. \n\nShe made him a shirt in a day, but it was tiny. They set out, he on his horse, she in a silver spoon drawn by two white mice, leaving him afraid he would trample her. They came to a body of water, his horse shied, and Doll i' the Grass was thrown in. He was horror-struck, but a merman brought her out again, and now she was of normal size. \n\nHis brothers had brought home ugly wives who had fought all the way home, and they wore hats with tar and soot, so that the rain had stained their faces with it, making them uglier. The king drove them and their brides away, and celebrated the wedding of his youngest son.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095158", "title": "Downtown Las Vegas", "text": "Downtown Las Vegas\n\nDowntown Las Vegas (commonly abbreviated as DTLV) is the central business district and historic center of Las Vegas, Nevada. It is the original townsite and was the gambling district of Las Vegas prior to the Strip, and the area still incorporates downtown gaming. As the urban core of the Las Vegas Valley, it features a variety of hotel and business highrises, cultural centers, historical buildings and government institutions, as well as residential and retail developments. Downtown is located in the center of the Las Vegas Valley and just north of the Las Vegas Strip, centered on Fremont Street, the Fremont Street Experience and Fremont East. The city defines the area as bounded by I-15 on the west, Washington Avenue on the north, Maryland Parkway on the east and Sahara Avenue on the south.\n\nPerhaps the earliest visitors to the Las Vegas area were nomadic Paleo-Indians, who traveled here 10,000 years ago, leaving behind petroglyphs. Anasazi and Paiute tribes came here at least 2,000 years ago.\n\nThe area was named Las Vegas, which is Spanish for \"the meadows\", in the 1800s because it featured abundant wild grasses, as well as desert spring waters for westward travelers.\n\nThe year 1844 marked the arrival of John C. Frémont, whose writings helped lure pioneers to the area. Downtown Las Vegas’ Fremont Street is named after him.\n\nEleven years later, members of the LDS Church chose Las Vegas as the site to build a fort halfway between Salt Lake City and Los Angeles, where they would travel to gather supplies. The fort was abandoned several years afterward. The remainder of this fort can still be seen at the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Washington Avenue at the Old Las Vegas Mormon Fort State Historic Park.\n\nLas Vegas was founded as a city in 1905, when 110 acres of land adjacent to the Union Pacific Railroad tracks were auctioned in what would become the downtown area. In 1911, Las Vegas was incorporated as a city.\n\nThe year 1931 was a pivotal one for Las Vegas. At that time, Nevada legalized casino gambling and reduced residency requirements for divorce to six weeks. This year also witnessed the beginning of construction on nearby Hoover Dam. The influx of construction workers and their families helped Las Vegas avoid economic calamity during the Great Depression. It was completed in 1935.\n\nFollowing World War II, lavishly decorated hotels, gambling casinos and big-name entertainment became synonymous with Las Vegas.\n\nThe 1950s saw the opening of the Moulin Rouge Hotel, the first racially integrated casino-hotel in Las Vegas.\n\nIn 1951, the first atomic bomb detonation at the Nevada Test Site, 65 miles northwest of Las Vegas, occurred. City residents and visitors were able to witness the mushroom clouds until 1963, when the Limited Test Ban Treaty required that nuclear tests be moved underground.\n\nDuring the 1960s, corporations and business powerhouses such as Howard Hughes were building and buying hotel-casino properties. Gambling was referred to as \"gaming,\" which transitioned into legitimate business.\n\nIn 1989, entrepreneur Steve Wynn changed the face of the Las Vegas gaming industry by opening up The Mirage, the Las Vegas Strip’s first mega-casino resort. This strengthened the pull of visitors away from the downtown area.\n\nIn 1995, the Fremont Street Experience in Las Vegas’ downtown area was opened. This canopied, five-block area features 12.5 million LED lights and 550,000 watts of sound from dusk until midnight during shows held on the top of each hour.\n\nDue to years of revitalization efforts, 2012 was dubbed “The Year of Downtown.” Hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of projects made their debut at this time. They included The Smith Center for the Performing Arts and Discovery Children’s Museum, the Mob Museum, the Neon Museum, a new City Hall complex.\n\nIn 2018, plans for a new downtown expo center were announced, replacing and expanding on space previously provided by the Cashman Center.\n\nFremont Street is home to most of downtown's hotels and casinos. These are the original casinos of Las Vegas, which existed before the more famous Las Vegas Strip. The Fremont Street Experience is a canopied street of the downtown area where casinos have been connected to the street and to each other in a unique visual manner. With more than 2 million lights and a state-of-the-art sound system, the Fremont Street Experience brings nightly shows through the world's largest audio-video system. The $70 million attraction features the ultimate in multisensory entertainment. It also provides a variety of exciting special events, cuisine, entertainment and live concerts throughout the year.\n\nProperty and business owners have been working to redevelop Fremont Street just east of the Fremont Street Experience. In 2002, the city of Las Vegas Redevelopment Agency joined with Fremont East property and business owners to create a business improvement district, as well as pay for a $5.5 million streetscape improvement. This area is called the Fremont East Entertainment District. It features an eclectic mix of bars, clubs and restaurants. Centered on Las Vegas \nBoulevard on Fremont Street, this three-block renovation includes pedestrian-friendly street redesign, landscaping and retro-looking neon signage.\n\nOfficially called 18b, The Las Vegas Arts District – named after the 18 blocks the district originally encompassed – this area is home to the city's arts scene with its mix of art galleries, studios and stores. Many arts district stores offer antiques, vintage clothing, high fashion, and mid-20th century furniture/furnishings and other collectible items. Centered on Main Street and Charleston Boulevard, the area hosts the popular First Friday festival every month featuring art, music and other performances.\n\nSymphony Park is a mixed-use urban district being built on the land to the west of Fremont and Main streets. It will eventually feature a mix of retail, medical, hotel and residential developments. The city of Las Vegas is undertaking the development on of land purchased from the Union Pacific Railroad in 1995. This is a major project for the Las Vegas Redevelopment Agency and the city. Projects that have been completed and are currently operating at Symphony Park are the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, The Smith Center for the Performing Arts and the Discovery Children's Museum.\n\nBusiness and government leaders have begun working on a plan to expand downtown’s Las Vegas Medical District (LVMD) from its current 200 acres to at least 680 acres. While currently offering the largest concentration of health-care services in the Las Vegas valley, an expanded district would allow for additional health-care services and opportunities. Areas for planned expansion include the Charleston Boulevard corridor to Valley View Boulevard, along Martin L. King Boulevard and in Symphony Park. The centerpiece of this expanded district will be the 260,000-square-foot UNLV School of Medicine, which will include an educational building and library. The school was granted preliminary accreditation in late 2016 and can begin accepting students for its 2017 charter class.\n\nCentered on Bonneville Avenue and Casino Center Boulevard, most of this area is filled with office and government buildings. With several court buildings located here, there are many judicial-related businesses such as law firms in the immediate area. The financial district is home to the Las Vegas City Hall building, the Lloyd D. George U.S. Courthouse and several bank buildings such as Bank of America. The Clark County Marriage Bureau is also located here at the Regional Justice Center.\n\nDowntown is a hub for arts and culture in the metro area. The main venue for performing arts is the Art Deco-inspired Smith Center for the Performing Arts. In addition to The Smith Center and 18b, The Las Vegas Arts District, there are a number of educational facilities in the Cultural Corridor, located just north of the immediate downtown area. They include the Las Vegas Natural History Museum, the Neon Museum and Boneyard and the Old Las Vegas Mormon Fort State Historic Park. Also in this area are a number of neon signs from former Las Vegas casinos and landmarks, which have been restored and installed on several streets around downtown, as well as throughout the Fremont Street Experience. A famous neon icon of downtown Las Vegas is the Vegas Vic sign, also located at the Fremont Street Experience. \n\n\nSeveral buildings of architectural significance exist downtown, although being founded in 1905, Las Vegas lacks the number of historical buildings of older cities. Exceptions include the Historic Fifth Street School, built in 1936 in the Spanish-mission style and listed in the National Register of Historic Places. Also listed is the Las Vegas Post Office and Courthouse, which currently serves as home to The Mob Museum and is one of the few historical neoclassical buildings in the city. Built in 1930, the Las Vegas Academy of International Studies and Performing Arts is the city's best example of Art Deco architecture. The Morelli House, built in 1959, is a notable mid-century modern design. The building that formerly housed the Las Vegas City Hall, and now is home to the corporate headquarters for the online retailer Zappos.com, is a notable example of 1970s modern architecture.\n\nAs Las Vegas boomed, more recent buildings tended to take inspiration from a variety of styles. The Clark County Government Center has a red sandstone exterior invoking a desert motif. The Smith Center for the Performing Arts, opened in 2012, is a more modern example of Art Deco design. Architect Frank Gehry designed the building for the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health building in deconstructionist style. It was completed in 2010.\n\n\nDowntown serves as a main center for government services in the Las Vegas Valley. Government offices for the city of Las Vegas and Clark County are located here, as well as the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and several courts.\n\nSome former government buildings have been turned into attractions, such as the old Las Vegas Post Office and Courthouse becoming the Mob Museum.\n\nTwo major freeways—Interstate 15 and Interstate 515/U.S. Route 95—cross in downtown Las Vegas. RTC Transit is a public transportation system providing bus service throughout Las Vegas, including the downtown area.\n\nA bus rapid transit link in Las Vegas called the Strip & Downtown Express (previously ACE Gold Line) with limited stops and frequent service was launched in March 2010. It connects downtown Las Vegas, the Strip and the Las Vegas Convention Center. It stops at the Bonneville Transit Center. Completed in 2012, the transit terminal serves as a central transfer point for downtown and features 16 vehicle bays for buses and 100 bike racks.\n\nThe Downtown Loop is a free shuttle servicing many attractions in downtown Las Vegas. The Loop runs continuously during operating hours and arrives at each stop every 20 minutes. The hours of operation are Monday through Thursday: 11:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Friday through Saturday: 3 p.m. to 12 a.m.; Sunday: 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.\n\nThe AAA Free Self-Driving Shuttle is a pilot program that provides rides in the Fremont East Entertainment District Nov 2017 – Nov 2018. The pilot program is a partnership with Keolis, the city of Las Vegas, and the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada. The shuttle runs Tuesday – Sunday 4:30pm – 8:30pm, with the main station stop at the Downtown Container Park. Shuttle service is suspended during the month of August.\n\nThe economy of downtown Las Vegas has been primarily based on gambling and entertainment, as is the case in the greater Las Vegas Valley. However, the smaller downtown casinos earn revenues that pale in comparison to the mega resorts on the Las Vegas Strip further south. As of 2014, there have been major renovations of several downtown resorts such as The Plaza, Golden Gate Hotel, Golden Nugget, El Cortez Hotel & Casino, the D and the Downtown Grand.\n\nDowntown Las Vegas also houses some corporate offices, as well as the World Market Center Las Vegas, a frequent host of trade shows and conventions. Recently, the opening of the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health and the arrival of the new Zappos headquarters downtown has started to attract new medical and technology-oriented businesses to the area.\n\nThe downtown area in recent decades has played second fiddle to the larger and more famous Las Vegas Strip, which is located a few miles to the south. The city has been working on revitalization efforts to entice more visitors and residents to the downtown area.\nWorld Market Center Las Vegas consists of three giant buildings, with a total of 5.1 million square feet, in a facility designed by Jon Jerde. It is home to semiannual trade shows for the furniture and furnishing industries. This is one of several entities that are helping to diversity downtown Las Vegas' economy and job base.\n\nThe square footage of World Market Center Las Vegas is greater than both the Willis Tower in Chicago and the Empire State Building in New York City.\n\nThe city is also working to attract events to the downtown area. Recently held events include \"Helldorado\" and the \"Life is Beautiful\" festival.\n\nIn 2012 several new downtown projects were completed. The Smith Center for the Performing Arts, the new Mob Museum and a new City Hall building opened. The Discovery Children's Museum opened next door to The Smith Center in 2013.\n\nThe Las Vegas City Hall now operates out of a new building, which, along with the Bonneville Transit center, can serve as an anchor tenant for new development along Main Street. In addition, Main and Commerce streets in downtown Las Vegas are undergoing major beautification efforts, which started in mid-2014.\n\nOnline retailer Zappos made major renovations to the old Las Vegas City Hall, and moved into the building in late 2013, which now houses its corporate headquarters. Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh has taken a personal, as well as a professional, interest in the urban area and is contributing $350 million of his personal wealth toward a multifaceted revitalization effort called the Downtown Project, with businesses like The Writer's Block included among its investments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44238400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44238400", "title": "Eskimology", "text": "Eskimology\n\nEskimology or Inuitology is a complex of humanities sciences studying languages, history, literature, folklore, culture, and ethnology of people speaking Eskimo–Aleut languages and Eskimo (Inuit–Yupik)–Aleut peoples in chronological and comparative context. This includes ethnic groups from the Chukchi Peninsula on the eastern tip of Siberia of Russian Federation to Alaska of the United States, Northern Canada (incl. Nunavik and Nunatsiavut), and Greenland of Denmark. Originally, a Eskimologist or Inuitologist was primarily a linguist or philologist who researches Eskimology scholar.\n\nEskimology traces its beginning to the pioneering work of Hans Egede (1745) and David Crantz (1767) in Greenland. Eskimology has traditionally had a particular focus on Greenland studies owing to the long-standing relationship between Denmark and Greenland established in the early 18th century, and the academic discipline of Eskimology is today centered at the University of Copenhagen. The term \"Eskimology\" was not common until 1967, when a genuine department was established and officially named the \"Department of Eskimology\". From the late 1960s, Eskimology changed its focus toward increasingly contemporary and global political issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11200542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11200542", "title": "Fatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly", "text": "Fatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly\n\nFatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly, known in Europe as Project Zero II: Crimson Butterfly, is a Japanese survival horror video game developed and published by Tecmo in 2003 for the PlayStation 2. It is the second installment in the \"Fatal Frame\" series, and features an independent story with little relation to the first title. The story follows twin sisters Mio and Mayu Amakura as they explore an abandoned village and experience encounters with the paranormal. Their lives quickly become threatened when the village spirits begin to possess the pair and target them as sacrifices for an ancient ritual. Players must use a camera with powers of exorcism to defeat enemies and uncover the secrets of the village.\n\nDevelopment of \"Fatal Frame II\" began shortly after the completion of the first title. Because many players were too frightened to finish the original, Tecmo made the sequel's story more interesting to encourage players to see it through and finish the game. Despite this, horror was still the central focus of the game. Director Makoto Shibata kept the perpetual nature of spirits in mind during development. Ghosts reappearing in different locations, and being able to feel their presence even after their death were characteristics Shibata felt were indicative of a horror scenario.\n\nUpon release, \"Fatal Frame II\" received positive reviews, and is widely considered to be among the scariest video games ever made. An Xbox port, subtitled \"Director's Cut\", was released in 2004 and included improved visuals, audio, and new gameplay modes. The game has also been re-released on the PlayStation 3 via PSN in 2013, and a remake of the game titled \"\" was released for the Wii in 2012 in Europe and Japan.\n\n\"Fatal Frame II\" is a survival horror video game. For most of the game, the player controls the protagonist Mio Amakura as she and her sister Mayu explore a ghost town. As they explore the town and uncover its secrets, they defeat enemies in the form of ghosts and spirits by taking pictures of them with an enchanted camera, the Camera Obscura. There are two modes of gameplay, field mode and viewfinder mode. When in field mode, the player controls Mio directly and can examine items and search areas for clues. When the camera is used, the game enters viewfinder mode, from where pictures of ghosts and scenery can be taken. Information about the camera film type, lens type, and camera enhancements is visible.\nMost of the game is spent directing Mio followed closely by Mayu as they explore the village. A filament in the corner of the screen will glow when ghosts or clues are nearby. Many clues are only visible through the viewfinder, and some ghosts are non-hostile and will provide hints to advance further. Sometimes Mayu will stop if she finds a clue as well. Other than clues and key items to progress the narrative, consumable items such as health restoratives and film for the Camera Obscura can be found.\n\nFighting spirits by taking pictures of them is a key gameplay mechanic. When in viewfinder mode, one can take pictures of enemies, damaging them. More damage can be dealt by snapping shots at certain moments, indicated by the filaments and lights on the camera. Power-up lenses can be used to provide added affects such as slowing down the enemy or pushing them back. Pictures taken with the camera can be saved to the memory card. Mayu cannot fight off ghosts, and if she takes too much damage, it is game over. The player character Mio has a health meter, and like Mayu, if she receives too much damage it is game over. The game must then be continued from a previous save.The game can only be saved at red lanterns located in throughout the village.\n\n\"Fatal Frame II\" is set in the fictional region of Japan. The region is home to Minakami Village (lit. \"All God's Village\"), an abandoned town where the majority of the game takes place. The player learns that Minakami Village was host to the \"Crimson Sacrifice Ritual\", the failure of which caused the settlement to vanish—thus earning it the name \"The Lost Village\". In the game's present, there is an urban legend about the Lost Village, where people who become lost in the Minakami forest will become trapped forever in the village.\n\nThe protagonists of \"Fatal Frame II\" are Mio and Mayu Amakura, twin sisters who are visiting their favorite childhood playspot in Minakami before it is lost due to construction of a new dam. The main antagonist is the vengeful spirit of Sae Kurosawa, the sole Twin Shrine Maiden sacrificed for the failed ritual. She yearns to reunite with her twin sister Yae. Sae mistakens Mio for her sister, and wants to use Mayu to try and complete the ritual with her. Other characters include the spirit of Itsuki Tachibana, a young man who also mistakes Mio for Yae, but instead tries to help her and Mayu escape; and Seijiro Makabe, a folklorist who visited Minakami Village with a Camera Obscura prototype (the same camera Mio uses in the game) and his assistant, Ryozo Munakata.\n\nThe plot of \"Fatal Frame II\" is independent from the first game in the series. During the Amakura twins' visit to their favorite childhood playspot in the Minakami region, Mayu follows a mysterious red butterfly deep into the woods. Mio, concerned for her older sister, follows, and they soon discover a village at night. While it seems abandoned, the twins soon realize that the village contains the tortured souls of the dead, forever reliving the events that trapped them in this state.\n\nMayu soon falls under the village's spell and is led deeper into the village by the butterflies. As Mio searches for her, she slowly learns of the Crimson Sacrifice Ritual, the failure of which caused the \"Repentance\", a disaster which shrouded the village in darkness. The village houses a system of tunnels underneath, where its deepest point is home to the \"Hellish Abyss\", a deep hole that collects the souls of the dead. To keep the Abyss from unleashing the dead, a pair of twins born in the village are required to perform a ritual approximately every decade, in which the elder twin strangles the younger, after which the soul of the younger twin stays to guard the village as a crimson butterfly.\n\nIn the past, before the Repentance occurred, twins Yae and Sae Kurosawa tried to escape their fate with Itsuki's help. During their escape, Sae was caught and brought back to the village, while Yae escaped. The Minakami villagers desperately hanged Sae to try to satisfy the Hellish Abyss; the attempt failed, causing the Repentance to occur and the village to disappear. During the Repentance, Sae returned from the Hellish Abyss as a vengeful spirit and, along with Seijiro Makabe, made a Kusabi for the Abyss, slaughtering the priests and villagers. Throughout the game, several ghosts refer to Mio as Yae and seem to expect her to perform the ritual with Mayu, who becomes possessed by Sae. Itsuki, however, tries to help her—believing the two to be the Kurosawa twins, he tries to aid their escape from the village again.\n\nNear the end of the game, when Mio learns that in Minakami Village, the twin born second is considered the elder, as the village believes that the \"elder\" lets the weaker, \"younger\" twin be born first. This completely reverses Mio's implied fate: instead of being sacrificed herself, she must strangle her \"younger\" twin sister. When Mio and Mayu finally begin escaping, the villagers' spirits take Mayu back to the Kurosawa house, where the Hellish Abyss awaits them below. Should the player choose to take the escape route alone, they will obtain the \"Lingering Scent\" ending, which leads to an automatic game over. If the player instead chooses to pursue Mayu, they have a chance to obtain the other endings. The \"Crimson Butterfly\" ending sees Mio and Mayu proceeding with the ritual, where Mayu becomes a crimson butterfly. The \"Hellish Abyss\" ending sees Mio rescuing Mayu from Sae, only to become permanently blinded from looking into the Hellish Abyss. The \"Promise Ending\", added to the \"Director's Cut\" version, sees Yae and Sae performing the ritual and freeing the villagers' spirits, thus sparing Mio and Mayu of the ritual. According to the events of \"\", the direct sequel of the game, the \"Crimson Butterfly\" ending is the canonical ending.\n\nDevelopment of a sequel to the original \"Fatal Frame\" began \"relatively soon\" after its release. Many players were too scared to finish the first game, so for the sequel, Tecmo shifted their attention to create a more interesting storyline to encourage players to see it through. Despite this, \"Fatal Frame II\" was developed with \"horror\" being the central focus more-so than the \"action\". Producer Keisuke Kikuchi and director of the Xbox port, Zin Hasegawa, called it \"horror that appeals to human imagination\", citing how some people get scared when hearing faint sounds in the dark. Kikuchi cited symmetry as a central theme in the story, in that, \"tragedies and fear are based on what happens when you tear things apart,\" such as butterflies and twins.\n\nIn creating the horror atmosphere, they considered more closely how spirits may behave. They may randomly disappear or reappear in different locations, and their presence can sometimes still be felt after they are killed. Shibata called these \"never-endings loops\" characteristic of a horror scenario, and this illusion was something he felt in a dream which he was using as inspiration for the game's story. Kikuchi took his inspiration from movies, literature, and also traditions and customs. He specifically cited Japanese novelist Seishi Yokomizo and Stanley Kubrick's \"The Shining\" as inspirations.\n\nThe decision to make an Xbox port of \"Fatal Frame II\" was not made until after release of the PlayStation 2 version and during planning of \"Fatal Frame III\". The Xbox port featured enhanced graphics with better lighting techniques, and also a Dolby Digital audio option was added. Additional gameplay modes were also added, First-Person Shooter Mode and Survival Mode, and more costumes as well. Kikuchi considers this version to be \"Fatal Frame 2.5\".\n\n\"Fatal Frame II\" was originally released in 2003 for the PlayStation 2. This version has been made available for download on the PlayStation 3. The PS3 version was removed from the online store shortly after release due to various technical issues with the emulator, before it was fixed and re-released on July 30, 2013. The download is only available for players in North America.\n\n\"Fatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly Director's Cut\" was released for the Xbox in 2004. The director's cut added in several updates, including a first-person play mode, a survival mode, a new ending, enhanced graphics, and a greater number of alternate costumes to unlock. In first-person mode, the player can play through the entire game from a first-person perspective. The Xbox version also has a \"shop\" feature where the player can trade points from pictures for healing items and film.\n\nA remake of the game, titled \"\", was released for the Wii in 2012, exclusively in Japan and Europe.\n\n\"Fatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly\" has received positive reviews from critics. Aggregating review website Metacritic gave the Xbox version 84/100, and the PS2 version 81/100.\n\n\"Fatal Frame II\" was ranked second in GameTrailers' \"Top Ten Scariest Games\" in 2006, and third in X-Play's \"Top Ten Scariest Games of All Time\". \"Game Informer\" also ranked it number one on a similar list. Ars Technica published an article about the game in its 2011 Halloween Masterpieces series, while PSU.com in 2003 opined \"Fatal Frame II\" was the scariest video game ever made. \"Fatal Frame II\" was a nominee for GameSpot's 2004 \"Best Adventure Game\" award, which ultimately went to \"\".\n\nNaughty Dog's Neil Druckmann described the game as \"the scariest kind of experience in any medium; I haven’t seen a movie that comes close.\"\n"}
{"id": "417892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417892", "title": "Flag of Benin", "text": "Flag of Benin\n\nThe national flag of Benin is a flag consisting of two horizontal yellow and red bands on the fly side and a green vertical band at the hoist. Adopted in 1959 to replace the French Tricolour, it was the flag of the Republic of Dahomey until 1975, when the People's Republic of Benin was established. The new regime renamed the country and changed the flag to a green field with a red star in the canton. This version was utilized until the regime collapsed in 1990, coinciding with the Revolutions of 1989. The new government promptly restored the original pre-1975 flag.\n\nUnder French colonial rule over Dahomey, French authorities forbade the colony from having its own regional flag. This was because they were worried that this could increase nationalistic sentiment and lead to calls for independence. However, with the rise of the decolonization movement in Africa, the French were obliged to grant limited autonomy to Dahomey as a self-governing republic within the French Community. This was granted on December 4, 1958, and a search for a national flag began soon after.\n\nThe new flag was chosen on November 16, 1959, and remained unchanged when Dahomey became independent less than a year later on August 1, 1960. In 1972, a coup d'état took place in the country, with the new government aligning itself with Marxist–Leninist ideals. In order to symbolize the revolutionary change, the regime renamed the country to Benin and instituted a new flag three years later. This featured a green field charged with a five-pointed red star in the top-left canton. However, the regime's flag was never adopted by law, making it only the \"de facto\" flag of Benin.\n\nThe green flag remained in place until 1990, when economic problems and the weakening of the Soviet Union's power due to the Revolutions of 1989 culminated in the collapse of the People's Republic of Benin. The socialist regime was replaced and the original flag from 1959 was reinstated on August 1, 1990.\n\nThe colours of the flag carry cultural, political, and regional meanings. Nationally, the yellow and green allude to the northern savannas and palm groves located in the south of the country, while the red symbolizes the blood shed by those who fought for Dahomey. On a continental level, the yellow, green and red represented the Pan-Africanist movement; the three colours were utilized by the African Democratic Rally, a political party representing the interests of French West Africa in the National Assembly of France at the time of decolonization. Furthermore, the colours are the same as the ones utilized in the flag of Ethiopia. This honours the oldest independent country in Africa and the only nation other than Liberia to remain independent during the Scramble for Africa.\n"}
{"id": "10132819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10132819", "title": "Genreflecting", "text": "Genreflecting\n\nGenreflecting is the process of examining and analyzing the patterns and characteristics of literary genres—both fiction and recreational nonfiction—and using that analysis to identify titles with similar appeals to readers (i.e., read-alikes), in order to make reading suggestions to individuals who are looking for something to read.\n\nThe term \"genreflecting\" was first coined by Betty Rosenberg, a prominent library science educator, in 1982.\n\nSince that time, the term has been adopted by readers' advisory in libraries and extended to nonfiction genres as well as fiction. A similar practice in retail bookstores is called \"hand-selling.\"\n\nAt the time the first edition of Rosenberg's \"Genreflecting\" was written, adding popular reading materials to library collections and recommending those titles to readers were controversial practices. Dr. Rosenberg's First Law of Reading—\"Never apologize for your reading taste\"—has since been adopted by growing numbers of librarians, and the field of readers' advisory has become increasingly central to the practice of librarianship.\n\nNancy Pearl, the well known model of the librarian action figure and author of \"Book Lust\" and \"More Book Lust,\" has promoted and further popularized the practice of readers' advisory within the library community and beyond.\n\nIn recent years, a number of online databases have been developed to assist readers' advisors find \"read-alikes,\" including \"What Do I Read Next?\" (Gale Thomson), \"NoveList\" (EBSCO), \"The Reader's Advisor Online\" (Greenwood Publishing Group), \"Fiction Connection\" (Bowker), and \"Booklist Online\" (American Library Association).\n\n"}
{"id": "36339186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36339186", "title": "Gibraltar Museum", "text": "Gibraltar Museum\n\nThe Gibraltar Museum is a national museum of history, culture and natural history located within the city centre of the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. Founded in 1930 by the then Governor of Gibraltar, General Sir Alexander Godley, the museum houses an array of displays portraying The Rock's millennia-old history and the unique culture of its people. The museum also incorporates the remains of a 14th-century Moorish bathhouse. Its director since 1991 is Prof. Clive Finlayson.\n\nThere were several unsuccessful attempts to establish a museum in Gibraltar during the 19th century. Significant local finds could not be kept on The Rock because there was no museum, resulting in the first known adult Neanderthal skull (the so-called Gibraltar skull) went to the Natural History Museum in London. This was the second Neanderthal fossil to be found and was excavated in 1848 at Forbes' Quarry on the north face of the Rock of Gibraltar.\n\nThe first known collection established in Gibraltar was due to the Reverend John White, chaplain at Gibraltar from 1756 to 1774. Encouraged by his elder brother Gilbert White, he collected zoological specimens which he studied and sent to England. He took advice from Giovanni Antonio Scopoli and also later wrote in England, what is considered the first detailed zoological account of Gibraltar. However, \"Fauna Calpensis\" was never published, and it and his collections are now lost. The next known recording of something that could resemble a museum dates from 1830. St Bernard's Hospital is recognised to have had a \"room for specimens of natural history and morbid anatomy\". Again, no remains of such collection are kept.\n\nThe first proposal to open a museum in Gibraltar was discussed in 1835 at a meeting of the Gibraltar Scientific Society - a group of British Army officers who met at the Garrison Library. The first museum was established and housed in rented accommodation. The museum became so important that the society changed its name to the Museum Society. One of the milestones of the existence of the Society was the presentation of the Gibraltar skull on the 3rd of March, 1848, although its importance was not recognised at the time, it was to the Society, by its secretary, Lieutenant Edmund Flint of the Royal Artillery.\n\nThe museum's establishment is credited to General Sir Alexander Godley, who was installed as Governor of Gibraltar in 1928. Upon his arrival, he gave an opening address in which he highlighted his reformist aims, which would: \"help to restore [Gibraltar] to its prosperity which had been showing signs of waning\". One of the elements of this reformist mission was the creation of a national museum. After nine months in office, on 30 July 1929, the Gibraltar Society was launched. Its primary objective was to assist the colonial authorities in the foundation of a museum. Godley was able to get two adjacent military quarters for use as a museum. The choice was fortunate as under one of them, Ordnance House, the former residence of the Assistant Director of Ordnance Stores, lay chambers of a bathhouse from the Moorish period, which had been used as a semi-underground stable.\n\nThe Gibraltar Museum was opened on 24 July 1930 and on the first anniversary (10th of July 1931), the Gibraltar Museum Ordinance was passed as \"An Ordinance relating to Ancient Monuments and Antiquities and to provide for the management of the Gibraltar Museum\".\n\nIn the 1970s, the Gibraltar Museum housed the first office of the Gibraltar Ornithological & Natural History Society (GONHS). Founders of the organisation included then curator of the museum Joaquin Bensusan and Clive Finlayson, the current museum director.\n\nRooms dedicated to Gibraltarian social history.\n\nFilm about the history of Gibraltar.\n\nRooms dedicated to The Rock as a symbol, from the Pillars of Hercules to today including Phoenician and Carthaginian collections.\n\nRooms devoted to the natural history of Gibraltar including reconstructions of past landscapes, walk-in cave and Neanderthals.\n\nA room dedicated to the variety of marine species living around Gibraltar's coastline.\n\nRoom dedicated to the Great Siege of Gibraltar (1779–1783). This was an unsuccessful attempt by Spain and France to capture Gibraltar from the British during the American War of Independence. This was the largest action fought during the war in terms of numbers, particularly the Grand Assault of 18 September 1782. At three years and seven months, it is the longest siege endured by the British Armed Forces.\n\nThe John Fernandez Rooms include a long scale model of Gibraltar and also includes old photographs of Gibraltar. The model was completed in 1865 from a survey by Lieut. Charles Warren R.E. who later took a leading role in the Jack the Ripper investigations. It was made at the direction of Major General Edward Charles Frome R.E. and painted by Captain B.A. Branfill in 1868.\n\nDevoted to The Rock's Latin name, \"Calpe\". A 19th-century fox hunt and a Royal Navy reserve unit.\n\nA room containing medieval artefacts excavated within the city of Gibraltar.\n\nAn open-air excavation covering seven centuries of Gibraltar's history.\n\nLocated within the museum's basement level lie the remains of a Moorish bath house built around the 14th century during the rule of Marinid dynasty. These private baths are known to have been within the Palace of the Governor of Gibraltar. The building was used as stables while the building was under control of the British military with a floor of one of the rooms was raised so high that horse-drawn coaches could be moved into the remaining space in the room. The site is now smaller than it was originally as the building suffered extensive damage during the Great Siege of Gibraltar. It is one of the best-preserved Moorish bath houses in Europe. In 1906, Mr. Budgett Meakin, an authority on Moorish antiquities, wrote of these baths:\n\nExcavations in the museum's garden revealed a water conduit, dating to the Spanish period. This conduit enters the garden from Line Wall Road and is thought to have run off an aqueduct that run along that road from wells south of the town. It then runs through the rooms and into a cistern under the interior patio.\n\nThe baths consist of rooms similar to the Roman Hypocaust system of baths with a normal temperature room for undressing, a cold room and a hot room. Channels under the floor would allow warm air to circulate as a form of underfloor heating. This process of bathing would act like modern saunas whereby moving between hot and cold temperatures cleanses the body by sweating.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50404485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50404485", "title": "Greek epic in film", "text": "Greek epic in film\n\nGreek mythology has consistently served as a source for many filmmakers due to its artistic appeal. Antiquity has been reimagined in many ways and these recreations have been met with great public success regardless of their individual achievements. The plot lines of epic poetry are even more appealing with their enthralling battles, heroic characters, monsters, and gods. And now, with modern technology and computer-generated imagery (CGI), our ability as a society to recreate greek mythology on screen has improved greatly.\n\nAs a scholar of Homer put it,\"At the beginning of literature, when heroic poetry reach society as a whole...society \"listened\"; in the twentieth century society \"views\"... the modern heroic medium is film, and not necessarily the productions that are held in highest critical regard.\"\n\nThe ancient Greek epic poem the \"Iliad (\"Ἰλιάς) details the final year of the decade-long Trojan War. The war began due to divine interaction with mortals: Eris, personification of strife and discord, presented a golden apple to the goddesses Aphrodite, Athena and Hera but instructed that only the fairest of them could keep it. Zeus sends the three women to Paris, the prince of Troy, who decides to award the apple to Aphrodite, who promises to make the beautiful Helen – wife of Greek King Menelaus – his wife. Paris' taking of Helen begins the fighting between the Greeks and Trojans. Although the initial rivalry exists between King Menelaus and Paris, the epic poem highlights the argument between Greek hero Achilles and the Greek King Agamemnon, Achilles' inner turmoil about whether or not he wants to engage in the fighting, and the overall heroic desire for \"kleos\" (κλέος, \"glory, fame\") and eventual \"nostos\" (νόστος, \"homecoming\").\n\nHelen of Troy is a 1956 epic film based on Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey. Filmed in parts of Rome, the film retells the story of the Trojan War, despite some major changes from the Iliad storyline.\n\nTroy is an American epic adventure war film directed by Wolfgang Peterson. Based on Homer’s \"Iliad\", the film describes the story of the Trojan War following the attack of Troy by Greek forces as well as the stories of those involved. Although the Iliad describes the story of the rivalry between Achilles and Agamemnon in the ninth year, Troy tells the story of the entire decade-long war. The film’s ending is not taken from the Iliad but from Virgil’s \"Aeneid,\" showing Hector’s death and funeral instead. The film’s cast includes actors Brad Pitt, Orlando Bloom, and Eric Bana.\n\nAnother Homeric epic often used in modern film, the \"Odyssey\" (Ὀδύσσεια) serves as a sort of sequel to the \"Iliad\". The poem narrates the journey home (or \"nostos\") of Greek hero Odysseus after ten years of fighting in the Trojan War. Like the \"Iliad\", the poem begins \"in medias res\", or \"in the middle of things,\" beginning\n\nUlysses is a fantasy-adventure film based on Homer’s \"Odyssey\". The film tells the story of Ulysses’ attempt to return home after the Trojan War, as well as the adventures that ensue. In the film, actor Silvana Mangano plays both Penelope, the wife of Ulysses as well as the sorceress, Circe. The 1954 film also features actors Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn. Ulysses was a tremendous success which later led to the production of the film Hercules in 1958, which was credited with igniting the Italian sword-and-sandal craze in the 1960s.\n\nThe Odyssey is a British-American fantasy-adventure television series based on Homer’s ancient Greek epic poem, The Odyssey. The miniseries won a 1997 Emmy Award and was nominated for a Golden Globe. The two-part NBC miniseries was filmed in Malta, Turkey, parts of England, as well as places around the Mediterranean where the story took place.\n\nJason and the Argonauts is an American-British fantasy film made in 1963. Known for its fantasy creatures and iconic fight scenes, the film was released by Columbia Pictures in association with Morningside Productions. The film tells the story of the Greek hero as he leads a team of adventurers in a quest for the legendary Golden Fleece.\n\nHercules is an Italian epic fantasy based upon both Hercules and the Quest for the Golden Fleece myths. The film’s screenplay is based loosely upon the myths of Hercules and the Greek epic poem Argonautika by Apollonius of Rhodes. Hercules tells the tale of the Greek hero as he sails with the Argonauts, experiencing adventure and romance.\n"}
{"id": "13446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13446", "title": "Hebrew alphabet", "text": "Hebrew alphabet\n\nThe Hebrew alphabet (, '), known variously by scholars as the Jewish script, square script, and block script, is an abjad script used in the writing of the Hebrew language. It is also used in the writing of other Jewish languages, most notably Yiddish, Judaeo-Spanish, and Judeo-Arabic.\n\nHistorically, two separate abjad scripts have been used to write Hebrew. The original, old Hebrew script, known as the paleo-Hebrew alphabet, has been largely preserved in a variant form as the Samaritan alphabet. The present \"Jewish script\" or \"square script\", on the contrary, is a stylized form of the Aramaic alphabet and was known by Jewish sages as the Ashuri alphabet (lit. \"Assyrian\"), since its origins were alleged to be from Assyria.\n\nVarious \"styles\" (in current terms, \"fonts\") of representation of the Jewish script letters described in this article also exist, including a variety of cursive Hebrew styles. In the remainder of this article, the term \"Hebrew alphabet\" refers to the square script unless otherwise indicated.\n\nThe Hebrew alphabet has 22 letters. It does not have case, but five letters have different forms when used at the end of a word. Hebrew is written from right to left. Originally, the alphabet was an abjad consisting only of consonants, but is now considered an \"impure abjad\". As with other abjads, such as the Arabic alphabet, during its centuries-long use scribes devised means of indicating vowel sounds by separate vowel points, known in Hebrew as \"niqqud.\" In both biblical and rabbinic Hebrew, the letters can also function as \"matres lectionis\", which is when certain consonants are used to indicate vowels. There is a trend in Modern Hebrew towards the use of \"matres lectionis\" to indicate vowels that have traditionally gone unwritten, a practice known as \"full spelling\".\n\nThe Yiddish alphabet, a modified version of the Hebrew alphabet used to write Yiddish, is a true alphabet, with all vowels rendered in the spelling, except in the case of inherited Hebrew words, which typically retain their Hebrew spellings.\n\nThe Arabic and Hebrew alphabets have similarities because they are both derived from the Aramaic alphabet.\n\nA distinct Hebrew variant of the Phoenician script, called by scholars the paleo-Hebrew alphabet, emerged around 800 BCE. Examples of related early inscriptions from the area include the tenth-century Gezer calendar, and the Siloam inscription (c. 700 BCE).\n\nThe paleo-Hebrew alphabet was used in the ancient kingdoms of Israel and Judah. Following the exile of the Kingdom of Judah in the 6th century BCE during the Babylonian captivity, Jews began using a form of the Assyrian Aramaic alphabet, which was another offshoot of the same family of scripts. The Samaritans, who remained in the Land of Israel, continued to use the paleo-Hebrew alphabet. During the 3rd century BCE, Jews began to use a stylized, \"square\" form of the Aramaic alphabet that was used by the Persian Empire (and which in turn had been adopted from the Assyrians), while the Samaritans continued to use a form of the paleo-Hebrew script called the Samaritan alphabet. After the fall of the Persian Empire in 330 BCE, Jews used both scripts before settling on the square Assyrian form.\n\nThe square Hebrew alphabet was later adapted and used for writing languages of the Jewish diaspora – such as Karaim, the Judeo-Arabic languages, Judaeo-Spanish, and Yiddish. The Hebrew alphabet continued in use for scholarly writing in Hebrew and came again into everyday use with the rebirth of the Hebrew language as a spoken language in the 18th and 19th centuries, especially in Israel.\nIn the traditional form, the Hebrew alphabet is an abjad consisting only of consonants, written from right to left. It has 22 letters, five of which use different forms at the end of a word.\n\nIn the traditional form, vowels are indicated by the weak consonants Aleph (), He (), Vav (), or Yodh () serving as vowel letters, or \"matres lectionis\": the letter is combined with a previous vowel and becomes silent, or by imitation of such cases in the spelling of other forms. Also, a system of vowel points to indicate vowels (diacritics), called niqqud, was developed. In modern forms of the alphabet, as in the case of Yiddish and to some extent Modern Hebrew, vowels may be indicated. Today, the trend is toward full spelling with the weak letters acting as true vowels.\n\nWhen used to write Yiddish, vowels are indicated, using certain letters, either with niqqud diacritics (e.g. or ) or without (e.g. or ), except for Hebrew words, which in Yiddish are written in their Hebrew spelling.\n\nTo preserve the proper vowel sounds, scholars developed several different sets of vocalization and diacritical symbols called \"nequdot\" (, literally \"points\"). One of these, the Tiberian system, eventually prevailed. Aaron ben Moses ben Asher, and his family for several generations, are credited for refining and maintaining the system. These points are normally used only for special purposes, such as Biblical books intended for study, in poetry or when teaching the language to children. The Tiberian system also includes a set of cantillation marks, called \"trope\", used to indicate how scriptural passages should be chanted in synagogue recitations of scripture (although these marks do not appear in the scrolls). In everyday writing of modern Hebrew, \"niqqud\" are absent; however, patterns of how words are derived from Hebrew roots (called \"shorashim\" or \"triliterals\") allow Hebrew speakers to determine the vowel-structure of a given word from its consonants based on the word's context and part of speech.\n\nUnlike the Paleo-Hebrew writing script, the modern Ashuri script has five letters that have special final forms, called sofit (, meaning in this context \"final\" or \"ending\") form, used only at the end of a word, somewhat as in the Greek or in the Arabic and Mandaic alphabets. These are shown below the normal form in the following table (letter names are Unicode standard). Although Hebrew is read and written from right to left, the following table shows the letters in order from left to right.\n\nThe descriptions that follow are based on the pronunciation of modern standard Israeli Hebrew.\nNote that dotless tav, ת, would be expected to be pronounced /θ/ (voiceless dental fricative), but this pronunciation was lost among most Jews due to its not existing in the countries where they lived (such as in nearly all of Eastern Europe). Yiddish modified this /θ/ to /s/ (cf. seseo in Spanish), but in modern Israeli Hebrew, it is simply pronounced /t/.\n\n\"Shin\" and \"sin\" are represented by the same letter, , but are two separate phonemes. When vowel diacritics are used, the two phonemes are differentiated with a \"shin\"-dot or \"sin\"-dot; the \"shin\"-dot is above the upper-right side of the letter, and the \"sin\"-dot is above the upper-left side of the letter.\n\nHistorically, \"left-dot-sin\" corresponds to Proto-Semitic *, which in biblical-Judaic-Hebrew corresponded to the voiceless alveolar lateral fricative , as evidenced in the Greek transliteration of Hebrew words such as \"balsam\" () (the \"ls\" - 'שׂ') as is evident in the \"Targum Onkelos\".\n\nHistorically, the consonants \"beth\", \"gimel\", \"daleth\", \"kaf\", \"pe\" and \"tav\" each had two sounds: one hard (plosive), and one soft (fricative), depending on the position of the letter and other factors. When vowel diacritics are used, the hard sounds are indicated by a central dot called \"dagesh\" (), while the soft sounds lack a \"dagesh\". In modern Hebrew, however, the \"dagesh\" only changes the pronunciation of \"beth\", \"kaf\", and \"pe\", and does not affect the name of the letter. The differences are as follows:\n\nIn other dialects (mainly liturgical) there are variations from this pattern.\n\nThe sounds , , , written \", \", \"\", and , non-standardly sometimes transliterated , are often found in slang and loanwords that are part of the everyday Hebrew colloquial vocabulary. The apostrophe-looking symbol after the Hebrew letter modifies the pronunciation of the letter and is called a \"geresh\".\n\nThe pronunciation of the following letters can also be modified with the geresh diacritic, the represented sounds are however foreign to Hebrew phonology, i.e., these symbols mainly represent sounds in foreign words or names when transliterated with the Hebrew alphabet, and not loanwords.\n\nA \"geresh\" is also used to denote acronyms pronounced as a string of letters, and to denote a Hebrew numeral. Geresh also is the name of one of the notes of cantillation in the reading of the Torah, but its appearance and function is different.\n\nIn Israel's general population, many letters have the same pronunciation. They are as follows:\n\nSome of the variations in sound mentioned above are due to a systematic feature of Ancient Hebrew. The six consonants were pronounced differently depending on their position. These letters were also called \"BeGeD KeFeT\" letters . The full details are very complex; this summary omits some points. They were pronounced as plosives at the beginning of a syllable, or when doubled. They were pronounced as fricatives when preceded by a vowel (commonly indicated with a macron, ḇ ḡ ḏ ḵ p̄ ṯ). The plosive and double pronunciations were indicated by the \"dagesh\". In Modern Hebrew the sounds ḏ and ḡ have reverted to and , respectively, and ṯ has become , so only the remaining three consonants show variation. \"resh\" may have also been a \"doubled\" letter, making the list \"BeGeD KePoReT\". (Sefer Yetzirah, 4:1)\n\n\nThe following table contains the pronunciation of the Hebrew letters in reconstructed historical forms and dialects using the . The apostrophe-looking symbol after some letters is not a yud but a geresh. It is used for loanwords with non-native Hebrew sounds. The dot in the middle of some of the letters, called a \"dagesh kal\", also modifies the sounds of the letters ב, כ and פ in modern Hebrew (in some forms of Hebrew it modifies also the sounds of the letters ג, ד and/or ת; the \"dagesh chazak\" – orthographically indistinguishable from the \"dagesh kal\" – designates gemination, which today is realized only rarely – e.g. in biblical recitations or when using Arabic loanwords).\n\n\n \"alef\", ע \"ayin\", \"vav\" and \"yod\" are letters that can sometimes indicate a vowel instead of a consonant (which would be, respectively, ). When they do, and are considered to constitute part of the vowel designation in combination with a niqqud symbol – a vowel diacritic (whether or not the diacritic is marked), whereas and ע are considered to be mute, their role being purely indicative of the non-marked vowel.\n\n\"Niqqud\" is the system of dots that help determine vowels and consonants. In Hebrew, all forms of \"niqqud\" are often omitted in writing, except for children's books, prayer books, poetry, foreign words, and words which would be ambiguous to pronounce. Israeli Hebrew has five vowel phonemes, , but many more written symbols for them:\n\nBy adding a vertical line (called \"Meteg\") underneath the letter and to the left of the vowel point, the vowel is made long. The \"meteg\" is only used in Biblical Hebrew, not Modern Hebrew.\n\nBy adding two vertical dots (called \"Sh'va\") underneath the letter, the vowel is made very short. When sh'va is placed on the first letter of the word, mostly it is \"è\" (but in some instances, it makes the first letter silent without a vowel (vowel-less): e.g. וְ \"wè\" to \"w\")\n\nThe symbol is called a gershayim and is a punctuation mark used in the Hebrew language to denote acronyms. It is written before the last letter in the acronym, e.g. . Gershayim is also the name of a note of cantillation in the reading of the Torah, printed above the accented letter, e.g. .\n\nThe following table displays typographic and chirographic variants of each letter. For the five letters that have a different final form used at the end of words, the final forms are displayed beneath the regular form.\n\nThe block (square, or \"print\" type) and cursive (\"handwritten\" type) are the only variants in widespread contemporary use. Rashi is also used, for historical reasons, in a handful of standard texts.\n\nFollowing the adoption of Greek Hellenistic alphabetic numeration practice, Hebrew letters started being used to denote numbers in the late 2nd century BC, and performed this arithmetic function for about a thousand years. Nowadays alphanumeric notation is used only in specific contexts, e.g. denoting dates in the Hebrew calendar, denoting grades of school in Israel, other listings (e.g. שלב א׳, שלב ב׳ – \"phase a, phase b\"), commonly in Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism) in a practice known as gematria, and often in religious contexts.\n\nThe numbers 500, 600, 700, 800 and 900 are commonly represented by the juxtapositions ק״ת, ר״ת, ש״ת, ת״ת, and ק״תת respectively.\nAdding a geresh (\"׳\") to a letter multiplies its value by one thousand, for example, the year 5778 is portrayed as ה׳תשע״ח, where ה represents 5000, and תשע״ח represents 778.\n\nThe following table lists transliterations and transcriptions of Hebrew letters used in Modern Hebrew.\n\nClarifications:\n\nNote: SBL's transliteration system, recommended in its \"Handbook of Style\", differs slightly from the 2006 \"precise\" transliteration system of the Academy of the Hebrew Language; for \"צ\" SBL uses \"ṣ\" (≠ AHL \"ẓ\"), and for בג״ד כפ״ת with no dagesh, SBL uses the same symbols as for with dagesh (i.e. \"b\", \"g\", \"d\", \"k\", \"f\", \"t\").\n\nIn transliterations of modern Israeli Hebrew, initial and final ע (in regular transliteration), silent or initial א, and silent ה are \"not\" transliterated. To the eye of readers orientating themselves on Latin (or similar) alphabets, these letters might seem to be transliterated as vowel letters; however, these are in fact transliterations of the vowel diacritics – niqqud (or are representations of the spoken vowels). E.g., in אִם (\"if\", ), אֵם (\"mother\", ) and אֹם (\"nut\", ), the letter א always represents the same consonant: (glottal stop), whereas the vowels /i/, /e/ and /o/ respectively represent the spoken vowel, whether it is orthographically denoted by diacritics or not. Since the Academy of the Hebrew Language ascertains that א in initial position is not transliterated, the symbol for the glottal stop  ʾ  is omitted from the transliteration, and only the subsequent vowels are transliterated (whether or not their corresponding vowel diacritics appeared in the text being transliterated), resulting in \"im\", \"em\" and \"om\", respectively.\n\nThe diacritic geresh – \"׳\" – is used with some other letters as well (ד׳, ח׳, ט׳, ע׳, ר׳, ת׳), but only to transliterate \"from\" other languages \"to\" Hebrew – never to spell Hebrew words; therefore they were not included in this table (correctly translating a Hebrew text with these letters would require using the spelling in the language from which the transliteration to Hebrew was originally made). The non-standard \"ו׳\" and \"וו\" are sometimes used to represent , which like , and appears in Hebrew slang and loanwords.\n\nThe Sound (as \"ch\" in loch) is often transcribed \"ch\", inconsistently with the guidelines specified by the Academy of the Hebrew Language: חם → \"cham\"; סכך → \"schach\".\n\nAlthough the Bible does include a single occurrence of a final pe with a dagesh (Book of Proverbs 30, 6: \"\"), in modern Hebrew is always represented by pe in its regular, not final, form \"פ\", even when in final word position, which occurs with loanwords (e.g. שׁוֹפּ \"shop\"), foreign names (e.g. פִילִיפּ \"Philip\") and some slang (e.g. חָרַפּ \"slept deeply\").\n\nThe letters of the Hebrew alphabet have played varied roles in Jewish religious literature over the centuries, primarily in mystical texts. Some sources in classical rabbinical literature seem to acknowledge the historical provenance of the currently used Hebrew alphabet and deal with them as a mundane subject (the Jerusalem Talmud, for example, records that \"the Israelites took for themselves square calligraphy\", and that the letters \"came with the Israelites from Ashur [Assyria]\"); others attribute mystical significance to the letters, connecting them with the process of creation or the redemption. In mystical conceptions, the alphabet is considered eternal, pre-existent to the Earth, and the letters themselves are seen as having holiness and power, sometimes to such an extent that several stories from the Talmud illustrate the idea that they cannot be destroyed.\n\nThe idea of the letters' creative power finds its greatest vehicle in the Sefer Yezirah, or \"Book of Creation\", a mystical text of uncertain origin which describes a story of creation highly divergent from that in the Book of Genesis, largely through exposition on the powers of the letters of the alphabet. The supposed creative powers of the letters are also referenced in the Talmud and Zohar.\nAnother book, the 13th-century Kabbalistic text Sefer HaTemunah, holds that a single letter of unknown pronunciation, held by some to be the four-pronged shin on one side of the teffilin box, is missing from the current alphabet. The world's flaws, the book teaches, are related to the absence of this letter, the eventual revelation of which will repair the universe. Another example of messianic significance attached to the letters is the teaching of Rabbi Eliezer that the five letters of the alphabet with final forms hold the \"secret of redemption\".\n\nIn addition, the letters occasionally feature in aggadic portions of non-mystical rabbinic literature. In such aggada the letters are often given anthropomorphic qualities and depicted as speaking to God. Commonly their shapes are used in parables to illustrate points of ethics or theology. An example from the Babylonian Talmud (a parable intended to discourage speculation about the universe before creation):\n\nExtensive instructions about the proper methods of forming the letters are found in Mishnat Soferim, within Mishna Berura of Yisrael Meir Kagan.\n\nSee aleph number and beth number and gimel function.\n\nIn set theory, formula_1, pronounced aleph-naught or aleph-zero, is used to mark the cardinal number of an infinite countable set, such as formula_2, the set of all integers. More generally, the formula_3 (aleph) notation marks the ordered sequence of all distinct infinite cardinal numbers.\n\nLess frequently used, the formula_4 (beth) notation is used for the iterated power sets of formula_1. The 2nd element formula_6 is the cardinality of the continuum. Very occasionally, gimel is used in cardinal notation.\n\nThe Unicode Hebrew block extends from U+0590 to U+05FF and from U+FB1D to U+FB4F. It includes letters, ligatures, combining diacritical marks (\"Niqqud\" and cantillation marks) and punctuation. The Numeric Character References is included for HTML. These can be used in many markup languages, and they are often used in Wiki to create the Hebrew glyphs compatible with the majority of web browsers.\n\nStandard Hebrew keyboards have a 101-key layout. Like the standard QWERTY layout, the Hebrew layout was derived from the order of letters on Hebrew typewriters.\n\n\n\"Alef-bet\" is commonly written in Israeli Hebrew without the \"\" (, \"[Hebrew] hyphen\"), , as opposed to with the hyphen, .\n\nThe Arabic letters generally (as six of the primary letters can have only two variants) have four forms, according to their place in the word. The same goes with the Mandaic ones, except for three of the 22 letters, which have only one form.\n\nIn forms of Hebrew older than Modern Hebrew, כ״ף, בי״ת and פ״א can only be read \"b\", \"k\" and \"p\", respectively, at the beginning of a word, while they will have the sole value of \"v\", \"kh\" and \"f\" in a \"sofit\" (final) position, with few exceptions. In medial positions, both pronunciations are possible. In Modern Hebrew this restriction is not absolute, e.g. פִיזִיקַאי and never (= \"physicist\"), סְנוֹבּ and never (= \"snob\"). A \"dagesh\" may be inserted to unambiguously denote the plosive variant: בּ = , כּ = , פּ =; similarly (though today very rare in Hebrew and common only in Yiddish) a rafé placed above the letter unambiguously denotes the fricative variant: בֿ = , כֿ = and פֿ = . In Modern Hebrew orthography, the sound at the end of a word is denoted by the regular form \"פ\", as opposed to the final form \"ף\", which always denotes (see table of transliterations and transcriptions, comment).\n\nHowever, וו (two separate vavs), used in Ktiv male, is to be distinguished from the \"Yiddish ligature\" װ (also two vavs but together as one character).\n\nThe Academy of the Hebrew Language states that both and be indistinguishably represented in Hebrew using the letter Vav. Sometimes the Vav is indeed doubled, however not to denote as opposed to but rather, when spelling without niqqud, to denote the phoneme /v/ at a non-initial and non-final position in the word, whereas a single Vav at a non-initial and non-final position in the word in spelling without niqqud denotes one of the phonemes /u/ or /o/. To pronounce foreign words and loanwords containing the sound , Hebrew readers must therefore rely on former knowledge and context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "798806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=798806", "title": "Henry Giroux", "text": "Henry Giroux\n\nHenry A. Giroux (born September 18, 1943) is an American and Canadian scholar and cultural critic. One of the founding theorists of critical pedagogy in the United States, he is best known for his pioneering work in public pedagogy, cultural studies, youth studies, higher education, media studies, and critical theory. In 2002 \"Routledge\" named Giroux as one of the top fifty educational thinkers of the modern period.\n\nA high-school social studies teacher in Barrington, Rhode Island, for six years, Giroux has held positions at Boston University, Miami University, and Penn State University. In 2005, Giroux began serving as the Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. He has published more than 60 books, 200 chapters, and 400 articles, and is published widely throughout education and cultural studies literature.\n\nHenry Giroux was born in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of Alice (Waldron) and Armand Giroux. Giroux completed an M.A. in history at Appalachian State University in 1968. After teaching high-school social studies in Barrington, Rhode Island, for six years, Giroux earned a D.A. (Doctor of Arts) in history at Carnegie-Mellon in 1977. His first position as a professor was in education at Boston University, which he held for the next six years. Following that, he became an education professor and renowned scholar in residence at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. While there he also served as the founding Director of the Center for Education and Cultural Studies.\n\nIn 1992, he began a 12-year position in the Waterbury Chair Professorship at Penn State University, also serving as the Director of the Waterbury Forum in Education and Cultural Studies. In 2004 Giroux became the Global Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. In July 2014, he was named to the McMaster University Chair for Scholarship in the Public Interest. He is currently the Director of the McMaster Centre for Research in the Public Interest. He and his wife, Susan Searls Giroux, live in Toronto, Ontario, where he currently is a Distinguished Visiting Professor at Ryerson University.\n\nHenry Giroux's writing has won many awards, and has written for a range of public and scholarly sources. Giroux has written more than 60 books; published more than 400 papers; and hundreds of chapters in others' books, articles in magazines, and more.\n\nWhile at Miami University, Giroux was named as a Distinguished Scholar. He won the Visiting Distinguished Professor Award for 1987–1988 at the University of Missouri–Kansas City. Between 1992 and 2004, he held the Waterbury Chair Professorship at Penn State University. He was awarded the Visiting Asa Knowles Chair Professorship by Northeastern University in 1995. He won a Tokyo Metropolitan University Fellowship for Research in August 1995.\n\nIn 1998, Giroux was selected to the Laureate Chapter of Kappa Delta Phi. He was awarded a Distinguished Visiting Lectureship in art education at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1998 and 1999. He was the winner of a Getty Research Institute Visiting Scholar Award for May–June 2000. He was selected as a Hooker Distinguished Visiting Professor at McMaster University in 2001.\n\nGiroux was named as one of the top fifty educational thinkers of the modern period in \"Fifty Modern Thinkers on Education: From Piaget to the Present\" as part of Routledge’s \"Key Guides Publication Series\" (2002). In 2001 he won the James L. Kinneavy Award for the most outstanding article published in JAC in 2001, which was presented by the Association of Teachers of Advanced Composition at the Conference on College Composition and Communication Chicago in March 2002. He was named by Oxford University to deliver the Herbert Spencer Lecture for 2002.\n\nGiroux was selected as the Barstow Visiting Scholar for 2003 at Saginaw Valley State University. In 2005, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters by Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n\n\"The University in Chains\" was named by the American Educational Studies Association as the recipient of the AESA Critics' Book Choice Award for 2008. He was named by the Toronto Star in 2012 as one of the top 12 Canadians Changing the Way We Think. \"Education and the Crisis of Public Values: Challenging the Assault on Teachers, Students, & Public Education\" was awarded a CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title and has received the Annual O. L. Davis, Jr. Outstanding Book Award from the AATC (American Association for Teaching and Curriculum) and the AESA (American Educational Studies Association) Critics Choice Award 2012.\n\nHe was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters degree from Chapman University in California in 2015 and in 2017 he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of the West of Scotland. He is a winner of a Lifetime Achievement Award granted by the AERA. In 2015 he won two other major awards from Chapman University: the \"Changing the World Award\" and \"The Paulo Freire Democratic Project Social Justice Award.\"\n\nGiroux is co-Editor-in-chief of the \"Review of Education, Pedagogy and Cultural Studies\" published by Taylor and Francis.\n\nGiroux is a prolific author and has been publishing his books in every decade since the 1980s. The following is a partial list of his major book publications. It is arranged by decade and in reverse chronological order (i.e., the latest publications listed first):\n\n2010s\n\n\n2000s\n\n1990s\n\n1980s\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33561186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33561186", "title": "History of scholarship", "text": "History of scholarship\n\nThe history of scholarship is the historical study of fields of study which are not covered by the English term \"science\" (cf., history of science), but are covered by, for example, the German term \"Wissenschaft\" (i.e., all kinds of academic studies). Examples are the history of classical studies, the history of the study of religions, of philosophy, of Biblical studies, of historiography, of the study of music, arts etc. It is a field which has recently undergone a complete renewal and is now a major branch of research. \n\nThe word scientist was coined by the English philosopher and historian of science William Whewell in 1833. Until then there was no differentiation between the history of science, the history of philosophy and the history of scholarship. \n\nBefore 1700 the fields of scholarship were not of a size that made academic specialisation necessary. Academic disciplines as we know them today did not exist. In general scholars were both scientists and scholars in what today is termed Arts and Humanities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51319", "title": "Intellectual history", "text": "Intellectual history\n\nIntellectual history refers to the historiography of ideas and thinkers. This history cannot be considered without the knowledge of the humans who created, discussed, wrote about, and in other ways were concerned with ideas. Intellectual history as practiced by historians is parallel to the history of philosophy as done by philosophers, and is more akin to the history of ideas. Its central premise is that ideas do not develop in isolation from the people who create and use them, and that one must study ideas not as abstract propositions but in terms of the culture, lives, and historical contexts that produced them.\n\nIntellectual history aims to understand ideas from the past by understanding them in context. The term \"context\" in the preceding sentence is ambiguous: it can be political, cultural, intellectual, and social. One can read a text both in terms of a chronological context (for example, as a contribution to a discipline or tradition as it extended over time) or in terms of a contemporary intellectual moment (for example, as participating in a debate particular to a certain time and place). Both of these acts of contextualization are typical of what intellectual historians do, nor are they exclusive. Generally speaking, intellectual historians seek to place concepts and texts from the past in multiple contexts.\n\nIt is important to realize that intellectual history is not just the history of intellectuals. It studies ideas as they are expressed in texts, and as such is different from other forms of cultural history which deal also with visual and other non-verbal forms of evidence. Any written trace from the past can be the object of intellectual history. The concept of the \"intellectual\" is relatively recent, and suggests someone professionally concerned with thought. Instead, anyone who has put pen to paper to explore his or her thoughts can be the object of intellectual history. A famous example of an intellectual history of a non-canonical thinker is Carlo Ginzburg's study of a 16th-century Italian miller, Menocchio, in his seminal work \"The Cheese and the Worms\".\n\nAlthough the field emerged from European disciplines of \"Kulturgeschichte\" and \"Geistesgeschichte\", the historical study of ideas has engaged not only western intellectual traditions but others as well, including those in other parts of the world. Increasingly, historians are calling for a Global intellectual history that will show the parallels and interrelations in the history of thought of all human societies. Another important trend has been the history of the book and of reading, which has drawn attention to the material aspects of how books were designed, produced, distributed, and read.\n\nIntellectual history as a self-conscious discipline is a relatively recent phenomenon. It has precedents, however, in the history of philosophy, the history of ideas, and in cultural history as practiced since Burckhardt or indeed since Voltaire. The history of the human mind, as it was called in the eighteenth century, was of great concern to scholars and philosophers, and their efforts can in part be traced to Francis Bacon’s call for what he termed a literary history in his The Advancement of Learning. In economics, John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946) was both a historian of economic thought himself, and the subject of study by historians of economic thought because of the significance of the Keynesian revolution. However, the discipline of intellectual history as it is now understood emerged only in the immediate postwar period, in its earlier incarnation as \"the history of ideas\" under the leadership of Arthur Lovejoy, the founder of the Journal of the History of Ideas. Since that time, Lovejoy's formulation of \"unit-ideas\" has been discredited and replaced by more nuanced and more historically sensitive accounts of intellectual activity, and this shift is reflected in the replacement of the phrase history of ideas by \"intellectual history\".\n\nIntellectual history includes the history of thought in many disciplines, such as the history of philosophy, and the history of economic thought. Analytical concepts - such as the nature of paradigms and the causes of paradigm shifts - have been borrowed from the study of other disciplines, exemplified by the use of the ideas of Thomas Kuhn about The Structure of Scientific Revolutions to explain revolutions in thought in economics and other disciplines.\n\nIn Britain the history of political thought has been a particular focus since the late 1960s and is associated especially with historians at Cambridge, such as John Dunn and Quentin Skinner. They studied European political thought in its historical context, emphasizing the emergence and development of such concepts as the state and freedom. Skinner in particular is renowned for his provocative methodological essays, which were and are widely read by philosophers and practitioners of other humanistic disciplines, and did much to give prominence to the practice of intellectual history. \n\nIn the United States, intellectual history is understood more broadly to encompass many different forms of intellectual output, not just the history of political ideas, and it includes such fields as the history of historical thought, associated especially with Anthony Grafton of Princeton University and J.G.A. Pocock of Johns Hopkins University. Formalized in 2010, the History and Culture Ph.D. at Drew University is one of a few graduate programs in the US currently specializing in intellectual history, both in its American and European contexts. Despite the prominence of early modern intellectual historians (those studying the age from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment), the intellectual history of the modern period has also been the locus of intense and creative output on both sides of the Atlantic. Prominent examples of such work include Louis Menand's \"\" and Martin Jay's \"The Dialectical Imagination\".\n\nIn continental Europe, equivalents of intellectual history can be found. An example is Reinhart Koselleck’s \"Begriffsgeschichte\" (history of concepts), though there are methodological differences between the work of Koselleck and his followers and the work of Anglo-American intellectual historians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30102054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30102054", "title": "International Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies", "text": "International Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies\n\nThe International Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies (IATIS) is a forum designed to enable scholars from different regional and disciplinary backgrounds to debate issues relating to translation and other forms of intercultural communication.\n\nFounded in August 2004, its President is Juliane House. Mona Baker, Şebnem Susam-Sarajeva and other linguists are also members of its Executive Council. Its secretariat is located in Seoul, South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2128207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128207", "title": "International education", "text": "International education\n\nInternational education refers to a dynamic concept that involves a journey or movement of people, minds, or ideas across political and cultural frontiers. It is facilitated by the globalization phenomenon, which increasingly erases the constraints of geography on economic, social and cultural arrangements. The concept involves a broad range of learning, covering, for instance, formal education and informal learning (e.g. training, exchange programs, cross-cultural communication). It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of “worldmindedness” as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international. For example, the National Association of State Universities prescribes the adoption of \"proper education\" that reflects the full range of international, social, political, cultural, and economic dialogue.\n\nThe emergence of international education as a discipline may be attributed to the international and intercontinental initiatives of the past, which aimed to achieve education, learning, and intellectual exchange. This is demonstrated in the formalized academic relations between countries in the form of bilateral and scientific agreements. Here, international education is considered a mechanism of international cooperation and, in some cases, it stems from the recognition that different cultures offer different outlooks and styles of learning and teaching in addition to the transfer of knowledge. \n\nThere are scholars who associate the development of international education with comparative education, which is concerned with the evaluation and scrutiny of different educational systems in various countries for the purpose of developing an education and educational structures that are global in scope and application. This concept is considered ancient, having been used in classical Greece, while the actual term was first used by William Russell in 1826. International education diverged from it as it assumed the form of more organized programs that bring together learners and teachers from different countries to learn from each other.\n\nInternational education can be seen as developing ‘international-mindedness,’ or enhancing international attitude and awareness . From an ideological perspective, international education has a focus on moral development, by influencing the creation of “positive attitudes towards peace, international understanding and responsible world citizenship”.\n\nFrom a pragmatic approach, international education can relate to economic and cultural globalization. For instance, there are increasing demands for education qualifications to be transferable between schools and education systems. Furthermore, there is a “spread of global quality standards through quality assurances procedures such as accreditation”.\n\nOverall, international education can be viewed as the following:  \n\n\n\n\n\nDirect examples of international education include facilitating students’ entry into universities outside of their home countries. Also, temporarily studying abroad is another illustration of international education.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate (IB) Program is seen as an influence in the development of international education. The IB Diploma Program encourages students to learn and understand different cultures, languages, and points of view. This idea is incorporated into elements of the program e.g. Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) . CAS requires students to participate in activities promoting each of these three components. Through such activities, the intention is that global issues will affect students’ understanding of the world in a meaningful way. Specifically, these non-formal, non-academic experiences should enhance students’ comprehension of world issues in a manner that, for instance, reading books or participating in lessons may not .\n\nBased on student engagement and involvement, two general meanings emerge. The first refers to education that transcends national borders through the exchange of people. A good example would be students traveling to study at an international branch campus, as part of a study abroad program or as part of a student exchange program. The second is a comprehensive approach to education that intentionally prepares students to be active and engaged participants in an interconnected world.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate however, defines the term according to a certain criteria. This criteria include the development of citizens of the world in accordance with culture, language, and social cohesion, building a sense of identity and cultural awareness, encrypting recognition and development of universal human values, encouraging discovery and enjoyment of learning, equipping students with collectivist or individualistic skills and knowledge that can be applied broadly, fostering global thinking when responding to local situations, encourage diversity and flexibility in teaching pedagogic methodologies, and supply appropriate forms of assessment and international benchmarking.\n\nWhile definitions vary, international education is generally taken to include:\n\nOne of the eight millennium development goals ratified in the United Nations in the year 2000, focuses on achieving universal primary education. \n\nOther mentions of education in regard to international development:\nEducation For All (EFA):\nAn international strategy to operationalise the Dakar Framework for Action;\nThe World Education Forum (Dakar 2000) agreed to reach 6 goals by 2015:\n\nAt the end of 2015, the United Nations led another initiative to continue on the work of development goals. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contains 17 global goals, which are more extensive than the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs). Compared to the 2015 MDGs, the SDGs tries to ensure that no one is left behind. In this regard, not only state actors, but also major private “non-state” actors and multinational companies are involved and active in global education.\n\nEducation is stated under Goal 4 of the SDGs: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” Furthermore, SDGs promote international education through some of the following targets:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a report from the U.N. Secretary-General on “Progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals” in 2018, official development assistance (ODA) for scholarships amounted to $1.2 billion in 2016. The largest contributors were Australia, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, and European Union. Education is a core aspect of the SDGs, and considered essential to their success. Hence, an international strategy has been established through the Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action. This strategy emphasizes  mobilizing national, regional, and global efforts and collaborations that aim at:\n\n\nThe UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005–2014)\nhighlighted the central role of education in the pursuit of sustainable development.\n\n\"See also\" Comparative education; and Liberalism, Realism, Power Transition Theory, International Development, as focus areas that provide insight into international phenomena relevant to \"International Education.\"\n\nThere are different lenses international education can be viewed as. For example, thinking of international education in terms of a study abroad program that can help prepare students when looking for international occupations. Another example can be that international development is a focal point that is taught in colleges and universities under the umbrella of international education.\n\nAlthough very successful programs such as Engineers Without Borders enable students in one country to obtain an international education while working on open source appropriate technology projects abroad, the cost of this approach can be prohibitive for large scale replication. Recent, work has shown that using a virtual educational exchange, can have many of the positive benefits associated with international education and cross cultural experiences, without the prohibitive costs of overseas programs.\n\nInternational Education Week is held in the United States by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Education. The choice of week for celebration is determined at each institution, but is generally the week before the week that includes U.S. Thanksgiving: –; –; –; –. The aims of this event are to provide an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and global exchange.This joint initiative promotes programs that prepare Americans for a global milieu and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn and exchange experiences in the U.S. This shows how International education is not just about physically crossing borders, but is also about thinking globally in local situations. Schools throughout the US celebrate this week through on-campus and off-campus events.\n\nInternational education has a somewhat unusual position in higher education. While recognized as an important sphere of activity, it tends to be handled by administrative offices at the top of departments of languages and literature and international affairs. The scholars involved in international education usually have their primary involvement in other teaching and research. This leads to four distinctive characteristics particular to the field of international education:\n\n\nAdditionally, one of the challenges of international students is that increasingly higher education institutions are treating them as cash cows for meeting their budget challenges. Institutions must do more to support international students in their academic and career success by providing advising, training and coaching that is culturally attuned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5573232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5573232", "title": "Ivan Betskoy", "text": "Ivan Betskoy\n\nIvan Ivanovich Betskoi or Betskoy (; ) was a Russian school reformer who served as Catherine II's advisor on education and President of the Imperial Academy of Arts for thirty years (1764–94). Perhaps the crowning achievement of his long career was the establishment of Russia's first unified system of public education.\n\nBetskoy's parents were Prince Ivan Trubetskoy, a Russian Field Marshal, and his Swedish mistress, Baroness Wrede. His surname is the abbreviated form of his father's.\n\nHe was born in Stockholm, where Trubetskoy was held captive throughout the Great Northern War, and went to Copenhagen to get a military education before joining a Danish cavalry regiment. It was in the Danish service that he sustained a fall from a horse which forced him to retire from the service. Field Marshal Trubetskoy, having no other sons but Betskoy, recalled him to Russia in 1729. At first he served as his father's aide-de-camp but later would be sent on diplomatic missions to various capitals of Europe.\n\nBetskoy was actively involved in a coup d'etat that brought Elizaveta Petrovna to the Russian throne. The grateful empress promoted him to General Major and asked him to attend Joanna Elisabeth of Holstein-Gottorp, whose daughter Catherine was selected as a bride for the Empress' nephew and heir, Grand Duke Peter. In truth, Betskoy had been on friendly terms with Johanna Elisabeth for two decades previous, their intimacy giving rise to rumours that Catherine was his biological daughter.\n\nAfter Johanna Elisabeth was expelled from Russia in 1747, Betskoy found it necessary to lay down his offices and settle in Paris, where he spent the following 15 years in commerce with the Encyclopédistes especially to Jean-Jacques Rousseau. And to Denis Diderot, he was at least in correspondence with him. He was introduced to the highest echelons of the French aristocracy by his only sister Anastasia Ivanovna, Landgravine von Hesse-Homburg (her first husband was Prince Demetre Cantemir, ruler of Moldavia). \n\nPeter III of Russia recalled Betskoy to Russia and put him in charge of imperial palaces and gardens. Upon arriving to Saint Petersburg, Betskoy renewed his acquaintance with the sovereign's wife (and his own purported daughter), helping her depose Peter in 1762. His hopes to profit from his prominent share in the conspiracy were high. In her memoirs, Ekaterina Dashkova recalls an episode when Betskoy importuned the Empress with questions like \"Was I not the one who incited the Guards? Was I not the one who threw money to the people?\"\n\nAlthough Betskoy held no post of any consequence until 1764, when Catherine made him President of the Imperial Academy of Arts, he went on to become a pillar of the Russian establishment. His position at Catherine's court is not easy to classify. Some historians define his post as a \"personal secretary\"; others regard Betskoy as an \"unofficial education minister\" to the Empress. He was one of the few people who enjoyed unlimited access to the Tsarina on daily basis for most of her reign. It was at his suggestion that Étienne Maurice Falconet was commissioned to sculpt the \"Bronze Horseman\"; and it was he who engaged Georg von Veldten to design a magnificent iron fence for the Summer Garden.\n\nBetskoy's influence continued unabated until the late 1780s when Catherine's tolerance towards the ideas of the Enlightenment began to be eroded and Betskoy was declared \"reverting to childhood\" on account of his advanced age. Death overtook him in his ninety-second year, when he had long been incapacitated by blindness. Betskoy never married and left his estates to a natural daughter who enjoyed Catherine's particular favour; she married Jose de Ribas, a Spanish adventurer who founded the city of Odessa.\n\nIn 1763, Betskoy presented to Catherine the \"Statute for the Education of the Youth of Both Sexes\", studded with citations from Comenius, John Locke, and Rousseau. The treatise contained a proposal to educate young Russians of both sexes in state boarding schools, aimed at creating \"a new race of men\". Betskoy set forth a number of arguments for general education of children rather than specialized one: \"in regenerating our subjects by an education founded on these principles, we will create... new citizens.\" Boarding schools were to be preferred to other institutions of education in accordance with Rousseau's notion that \"isolating the pupils enabled their tutors to protect them from the vices of society.\"\n\nThe Empress endorsed his proposal and established the Society for the Training of Well-Born Girls, with Betskoy as a trustee. This so-called Smolny Institute was the first female educational institution in Russia and one of the first in Europe. The Smolny was to become a training ground for Rousseau's ideas on education: the girlsviewed as the future centers of their familieswere protected from every pernicious influence and their moral education was given more prominence than intellectual one. The Empress personally maintained a correspondence with some of the pupils, perhaps viewing the school for women as a vindication of her own place at the pinnacle of Russian society.\n\nFor the students of this institution Betskoy and Catherine brought out an instruction entitled \"On the Duties of Man and Citizen\". This essay not only discussed the pupil's duties in regard to God and to society but also contained practical advice on health, hygiene, and other everyday matters. An extensive collection of Betskoy's aids and manuals was published in Amsterdam in 1775. This edition was revised and expanded to two volumes printed in 1789–1791.\n\nBorn out of wedlock himself and anxious to reduce the frequency of infanticide, Betskoy found in illegitimate children and orphans an ideal material for implementing his educational theories. It was by his advice that two large foundling homes were established, first in Moscow (1764) and then in Saint Petersburg (1770). The Saint Petersburg Foundling House was a precursor of the modern Herzen University. Not less potent was his encouragement of education for merchant's sons. Betskoy deplored the fact that \"we have only two classes of society, either peasants or noblemen\" and sought to spur the development of middle-class consciousness by establishing a commercial school in Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "54284449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54284449", "title": "Languages of Honduras", "text": "Languages of Honduras\n\nThere are a number of languages spoken in Honduras though the official language is Spanish.\n\nSeveral studies have been carried out on the languages spoken in Honduras, including the following:\n\n- Honduran Dictionary (Catracho), in 1899, Alberto de Jesús Membreño, published the first Honduran Dictionary with the title of \"Honduranisms Vocabulary of the Provinces of Honduras\", nourished with great part of the words and expressions collected in La Botica del pueblo of Doctor Francisco Cruz Castro.\n\nIn the twenty-second edition of the Spanish Royal Academy Dictionary, 2001, AHL made a valuable contribution to the Spanish-speaking world: 1,950 Hondurans were incorporated. In the twenty-first edition, in 1992, there were 302. Thus, there are about 2,702, including 400 Honduran gentilices, which makes Honduran Spanish speakers one of the greatest contributors of new lexical elements in that edition of the dictionary.\n\nLikewise, \"I know you, Mosco - Dictionary of Honduran popular thought\" (Juan Carlos I Spanish King of the Spanish Cultural Cooperation in Honduras), by Juan Ramón Saravia, compiled more than 2,700 words.\n\nIn 2013, and after 4 years of work coordinated by Dr. Victor Manuel Ramos, the Honduran Academy of the Language AHL presents the \"Dictionary of the Languages of Honduras\", filled in by the portal dedicated to linguistic diversity of Honduras, with access to the dictionaries of 'Honduranisms' and of the 'Languages of Honduras DLH'.\n\nIn Honduras, dozens of languages were spoken before the Spanish conquest. The language most spoken was the Lenca language; after the conquest, the most spoken language became the Castilian.\n\nThe language of the Honduran lencas, known as or also called \"lenca\", is considered an extinct language. Because it is already in danger of extinction, it has a population of 300 to 594 inhabitants. Its geographical location is between the western departments of Honduras, as they are: Lempira, Intibucá, La Paz, also they are in smaller quantity in the central departments of Santa Barbara, Comayagua, Francisco Morazán and Valley.\n\nThe native lencas religion was a polytheistic religion that saw reality from an animist point of view, believed in nahualism and the gods were organized hierarchically.\n\nThe Chorites speak a language of the Mayan languages in the Chol group. They have lost their language and have adopted the Spanish language.\n\nThey are the result of the mixture of African slaves (that shipwrecked in two ships in 1655 and another one that shipwrecked in 1675) with the Caribbean Indians (Amerindians, who had diverse languages called Caribbean languages), thus originated the black Caribs who dominated the Island of San Vicente until 1797, when they were expelled by the English towards Roatán and Trujillo.\n\nThe Bay Islands are composed of larger islands called Utila, Roatan and Guanaja and their smaller islands or islets called Morat, Barbareta, Santa Elena and Cayos Cochinos. They are located on the northern coast of Honduras.\n\nTheir language is Creole English. Imported from England and Ireland, when the pirates and corsairs possessed these lands, when they attacked the ships of the Spanish Empire.\n\nAccording to studies consulted, the Tawahka language and the Misquita are quite similar in their morphological and syntactic structure, although they do not have much lexicon in common. Both languages belong to the group macro-chibcha, linguistic group of South American origin. It is assumed that in very distant dates the ancestors of the Tawahkas, Misquitos and the branches (another related group), emigrated from what is now Colombia passing through the isthmus of Panama. The Tawahkas call their language Twanka, which shows a similarity to the name that, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, the Spaniards gave the Indians of the Guayape-Guayambre area: tahuajcas.\nThe mother tongue of this town is Tawahka, but they also speak Miskito and Spanish, although they still have some difficulty speaking Spanish.\n\nThey call themselves \"pech\" which means \"people,\" a term that is used to refer only to them; for the rest of the population they use the terms pech-akuá (the other people) or bulá that means ladino. Lehmann and Greenberg consider that the pech language comes from the chibcha, although some linguists consider it an isolated league.\n\nIt is a Mesoamerican ethnic group that has its own language, which occupied part of the territory of Honduras and El Salvador since pre-Columbian times.\n\nIn the time of the Spanish conquest only three lencas are named in the documents of that time: Mota, Entepica and Léppira.\n\nThe most widely spoken language in Honduras today is Castilian. Its name comes from the language where the language was born, the region of Castilla. In Honduras there is a variant of Spanish called Honduran Spanish or also called Honduran Castilian.\n\nIt is an extinct language of the Misumalpan languages that was the main language of the central highlands of the republic of Nicaragua and of the department of El Paraíso in The Republic of Honduras.\n\nIn El Paraíso, it was called the language of the \"Chatos\" and \"Sules\" of that Honduran department.\n\nHondurans, as mentioned, are usually classified into six language families. Some of the languages are poorly documented, however, it seems that all languages documented in Honduras can be classified with reasonable certainty. Some of the languages are currently extinct (and here they are marked with the sign †). The table indicates the territories where the different languages were spoken, although in the actulidad the languages have disappeared of many of the indicated departments. The following list contains 12 languages between living languages and extinct languages:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "710604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=710604", "title": "Leszynski naming convention", "text": "Leszynski naming convention\n\nThe Leszynski naming convention (or LNC) is a variant of Hungarian notation popularized by consultant Stan Leszynski specifically for use with Microsoft Access development. Although the naming convention is nowadays often used within the Microsoft Access community, and is the standard in Visual Basic programming, it is not widely used elsewhere.\n\nThe conventions are derived from an earlier set of conventions, the Leszynski/Reddick naming conventions, originally developed in 1992 by Greg Reddick. Eventually, Leszynski and Reddick had different ideas about how the conventions should be developed, and split into two separate sets of conventions, the other being the RVBA Conventions.\n\nAs in all Hungarian notations, it uses prefixes (called \"tags\") to indicate the type of objects and database development fields. \nThe general structure of Hungarian notation (named after Charles Simonyi's native country) is to break down object names into the following elements:\n[prefix(es)][tag]BaseName[Suffix/Qualifier]\nThe tags are always lower-case and each word of the object name is capitalized. Spaces and underscores are not used. \n\nSince the Leszynski naming convention is a special form of Hungarian notation the same general advantages also apply to the Leszynski convention.\n\nThe use of distinctive prefixes makes your database self-documenting; when you see \"frmSales\" in VBA code, you will know that it references a form, and when you see \"curSales\" you will know that it is a Currency variable. When selecting a query from a drop-down list, you will know that a query starting with \"qmak\" is a make-table query, while one starting with \"quni\" is a union query. This information will allow you to avoid errors such as using the SetFocus method (a control method) with a field, or trying to open a table.\n\n\nThe elements of the naming convention are described in the following table.\n\nPart of this article is based on Helen Feddema's book, Expert One-on-One Microsoft Access Application Development, Wiley, .\n"}
{"id": "53765909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53765909", "title": "Lio Gangeri", "text": "Lio Gangeri\n\nLio Gangeri (Messina, June 1, 1845 – Salerno, February 5, 1913) was an Italian sculptor.\n\nFirst student of the painter Michele Panebianco from 1867 he moved to Rome where he studied under Giulio Monteverde. Later he worked in Italy but above all between Rome and in Messina.\n\nGangeri was the Professor and President of import Italian art academies like the Accademia di Belle Arti di Carrara and of the Accademia di Belle Arti di Roma. Among his students he remembers Arturo Dazzi.\n\nHe died in Salerno on February 5, 1913\n"}
{"id": "897458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897458", "title": "Medieval Hebrew", "text": "Medieval Hebrew\n\nMedieval Hebrew was a literary and liturgical language that existed between the 4th and 18th century. It was not commonly used as a spoken language, but mainly in written form by rabbis, scholars and poets. Medieval Hebrew had many features that distinguished it from older forms of Hebrew. These affected grammar, syntax, sentence structure, and also included a wide variety of new lexical items, which were either based on older forms or borrowed from other languages, especially Aramaic, Greek and Latin.\nIn the Golden age of Jewish culture in the Iberian Peninsula, important work was done by grammarians in explaining the grammar and vocabulary of Biblical Hebrew; much of this was based on the work of the grammarians of Classical Arabic. Important Hebrew grammarians were Judah ben David Hayyuj and Jonah ibn Janah. A great deal of poetry was written, by poets such as Dunash ben Labrat, Solomon ibn Gabirol, Judah ha-Levi, David Hakohen and the two Ibn Ezras, in a \"purified\" Hebrew based on the work of these grammarians, and in Arabic quantitative metres (see piyyut). This literary Hebrew was later used by Italian Jewish poets.\n\nThe need to express scientific and philosophical concepts from Classical Greek and Medieval Arabic motivated Medieval Hebrew to borrow terminology and grammar from these other languages, or to coin equivalent terms from existing Hebrew roots, giving rise to a distinct style of philosophical Hebrew. Many have direct parallels in medieval Arabic. The Ibn Tibbon family, and especially Samuel ben Judah ibn Tibbon were personally responsible for the creation of much of this form of Hebrew, which they employed in their translations of scientific materials from the Arabic. At that time, original Jewish philosophical and theological works produced in Spain were usually written in Arabic, but as time went on, this form of Hebrew was used for many original compositions as well.\n\nAnother important influence was Maimonides, who developed a simple style based on Mishnaic Hebrew for use in his law code, the Mishneh Torah. Subsequent rabbinic literature is written in a blend between this style and the Aramaized Rabbinic Hebrew of the Talmud.\n\nBy late 12th and early 13th centuries the cultural center of Mediterranean Jewry was transferred from an Islamic context to Christian lands. The written Hebrew used in Northern Spain, Provence (a term for all of the South of France) and Italy was increasingly influenced by Latin, particularly in philosophical writings, and also by different vernaculars (Provençal, Italian, etc.). In Italy we witness the flourishing of a new genre, Italian-Hebrew philosophical lexicons. The Italian of these lexicons was generally written in Hebrew characters and are a useful source for the knowledge of Scholastic philosophy among Jews. One of the earliest lexicons was that by Moses b. Shlomo of Salerno, who died in the late 13th. century; it was meant to clarify terms that appear in his commentary on Maimonides' Guide of the Perplexed. Moses of Salerno's glossary was edited by Giuseppe Sermoneta in 1969. There are also glossaries associated with Jewish savants who befriended Pico della Mirandola. Moses of Salerno's commentary on the Guide also contains Italian translations of technical terms, which brings the Guide's Islamic-influenced philosophical system into confrontation with 13th-century Italian scholasticism.\n\nHebrew was also used as a language of communication among Jews from different countries, particularly for the purpose of international trade.\n\nMention should also be made of the letters preserved in the Cairo geniza, which reflect the Arabic-influenced Hebrew of medieval Egyptian Jewry. The Arabic terms and syntax that appear in the letters constitute a significant source for the documentation of spoken medieval Arabic, since Jews in Islamic lands tended to use colloquial Arabic in writing rather than classical Arabic, which is the Arabic that appears in Arabic medieval sources.\n"}
{"id": "250527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250527", "title": "My Belarusy", "text": "My Belarusy\n\n\"My Biełarusy\" (; ; \"We Belarusians\") is the unofficial title of the national anthem of Belarus and the first line of its lyrics. Officially, \"My Biełarusy\" is titled \"the State Anthem of the Republic of Belarus\" (, \"Dziaržawny himn Respubliki Biełaruś\"; , \"Gosudarstvennyj gimn Respubliki Belarusj<nowiki>'</nowiki>\"). The anthem was originally written and adopted in 1955 for use in the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. The music of the Byelorussian SSR anthem was composed by Niescier Sakałoŭski and the lyrics were written by Mikhas Klimkovich. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the music composed by Sakałoŭski was kept and the lyrics were discarded. New lyrics, which were written by Klimkovich and Uladzimir Karyzny, were adopted by a presidential decree issued on July 2, 2002. The lyrics of the anthem now sing of a friendly Belarus, honoring past military battles and looking forward to the future. The music was kept due to the historical connections it has to Belarus.\n\n\"My Biełarusy\" was originally used as the anthem of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (; ) starting from February 24, 1955. The original anthem was composed by Sakałoŭski and the lyrics were written by Maxim Klimkovich. It was presented in front of a jury in 1944, but it took 11 years of modifications before it was officially adopted. Soon after Belarus became an independent country, the national anthem was modified to drop the Communist-era lyrics. An attempt was made in 1995 to adopt Natallia Arsiennieva's poem \"O God Almighty\" as the national anthem, but the suggestion was not acted on even though it was supported by a parliamentary committee.\n\nThe only legal mention of the national anthem before 2002 is in the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus. Section One, Article 19 of the constitution states that \"The symbols of the Republic of Belarus as a sovereign state shall be its national flag, national emblem and national anthem.\" While the constitution only mentioned the use of the flag, anthem and arms as national symbols, each symbol had to be defined by law. A law introducing an anthem was not enacted until Presidential Decree 350 took effect, on July 18, 2002, the day before Belarus's independence day. The decree's main objective was to establish lyrics for the anthem and introduce musical notation along with the new lyrics. Moreover, the decree designated when, where, and how the anthem was to be performed.\n\nAccording to the newspaper \"Soviet Byelorussia\", President Lukashenko decided on the anthem on June 12, 2002 and chose to have its first performance on July 3, Belarusian independence day, the anniversary of the date in 1944 when the Wehrmacht was driven away from Minsk by the Red Army. However, the first performance actually took place on July 2 at a concert organized by the government as part of the Belarusian independence festivities.\n\nWhen Lukashenko issued his decree selecting a new national anthem, only slight changes were made to the Soviet-era hymn. While the references to Russia, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and Vladimir Lenin were replaced; the overall theme of \"friendship of peoples\" and the original music composed by Sakałoŭski were preserved. The government decided to keep Sakałoŭski's music in order to maintain historical continuity, and also on account of its popularity and musical quality. After the national anthem was adopted, the process of adopting national symbols was completed.\n\nThe organization Freedom House commented on the adoption of the anthem in a report about the country, published in 2003. On page 125 of the \"Country Report of Belarus\", Freedom House says that President Lukashenko has \"reintroduced the state symbols used by the old Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. In 2002, the president approved a streamlined version of the Soviet-era anthem \"My Belarusy\" (\"We Belarusians\"), as the country's new national anthem.\" The report also mentioned President Lukashenko's ban of the symbols that were used since Belarus's independence in 1991, such as the Pahonia arms and the white, red, white flag, which Lukashenko claims are associated with fascism (because the pro-Nazi Belarusian Central Rada in World War II used these symbols). In 2003, Dr. Taras Kuzio wrote in Radio Free Europe that President Lukashenko \"is the quintessential Soviet Belarusian patriot who presides over a regime steeped in Soviet nostalgia.\" Kuzio said that the motives of Russia and Belarus in re-adopting Soviet-era symbols are part of restoring that nostalgia.\n\nThe anthem must be performed in accordance with the lyrics and sheet music established by law. Every day, state-owned Belarusian television and radio stations are required to play the national anthem upon signing on at 6 a.m. and again upon signing off (usually around midnight). The anthem can also be performed on certain occasions, such as at government meetings, before sporting events and presidential inaugurations. While the anthem is being performed, citizens are required to stand at attention and those in military or police uniform must salute.\n\n\"Vajacki Marš\" (\"March of the Warriors\") was the official anthem of the Belarusian Democratic Republic, a Belarusian state that was created in 1918 but lasted only 10 months, during the German occupation of Belarus in World War I.\n\nSince 1919, the song has been used as an anthem of Belarus by Belarusian emigrant communities in Western Europe and North America. It is still considered the official anthem used by the government-in-exile of the Belarusian Democratic Republic.\n\n\"Mahutny Boža\", a religious hymn, is also actively used by those who oppose the Lukashenko Government.\n\nA favorite in the anthem competition was the poem called \"Young Belarus\" (Маладая Беларусь) by Janka Kupala. However, the poem was never set to a musical composition so Young Belarus could not be selected as the anthem.\n\nThe regimes of Belarus and Russia have been working towards a closer relationship with each other, resulting in the proposed Union of Russia and Belarus. While Belarus and Russia will be able to keep their own symbols, a song called \"Sovereign Union of Nations\" () has been proposed as the Union's unofficial anthem. The song, which was modified from the National Anthem of the Soviet Union, refers to a wider union of the two nations.\n\nFor comparison, below is a part of the anthem of the Byelorussian SSR.\n\n"}
{"id": "13745047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13745047", "title": "Natural hazard", "text": "Natural hazard\n\nA natural hazard is a natural phenomenon that might have a negative effect on humans or the environment. Natural hazard events can be classified into two broad categories: geophysical and biological. Geophysical hazards encompass geological and meteorological phenomena such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, cyclonic storms, floods, droughts, avalanches and landslides. Biological hazards can refer to a diverse array of disease, infection, infestation and invasive species.\n\nMany geophysical hazards are related; for example, submarine earthquakes can cause tsunamis, and hurricanes can lead to coastal flooding and erosion. Floods and wildfires can result from a combination of geological, hydrological, and climatic factors. It is possible that some natural hazards are intertemporally correlated as well. An example of the distinction between a natural \"hazard\" and a natural \"disaster\" is that the 1906 San Francisco earthquake was a disaster, whereas living on a fault line is a hazard. Some natural hazards can be provoked or affected by anthropogenic processes (e.g. land-use change, drainage and construction).\n\nAn avalanche occurs when a large snow (or rock) mass slides down a mountainside. An avalanche is an example of a gravity current consisting of granular material. In an avalanche, lots of material or mixtures of different types of material fall or slide rapidly under the force of gravity. Avalanches are often classified by the size or severity of consequences resulting from the event.\n\nAn earthquake is the sudden relof energy stored as lithospheric stress that radiates seismic waves. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes may manifest with a shaking or displacement of the ground; when the earthquake occurs on the seafloor, the resulting displacement of water can sometimes result in a tsunami. Most of the world's earthquakes (90%, and 81% of the largest) take place in the 40,000-km-long, horseshoe-shaped zone called the circum-Pacific seismic belt, also known as the Pacific Ring of Fire, which for the most part bounds the Pacific Plate. Many earthquakes happen each day, few of which are large enough to cause significant damage.\n\nCoastal erosion is a physical process by which shorelines in coastal areas around the world shift and change, primarily in response to waves and currents that can be influenced by tides and storm surge. Coastal erosion can result from long-term processes (see also beach evolution) as well as from episodic events such as tropical cyclones or other severe storm events.\n\nA lahar is a type of natural event closely related to a volcanic eruption, and involves a large amount of material originating from an eruption of a glaciated volcano, including mud from the melted ice, rock, and ash sliding down the side of the volcano at a rapid pace. These flows can destroy entire towns in seconds and kill thousands of people, and form flood basalt.\nThis is based on natural events.\n\nA landslide is a mass displacement of sediment, usually down a slope. It can be caused by pressure pulling natural objects down a declining hill.\n\nA sinkhole is a localized depression in the surface topography, usually caused by the collapse of a subterranean structure such as a cave. Although rare, large sinkholes that develop suddenly in populated areas can lead to the collapse of buildings and other structures.\n\nA volcanic eruption is the point in which a volcano is active and releases its power, and the eruptions come in many forms. They range from daily small eruptions which occur in places like Kilauea in Hawaii, to megacolossal eruptions (where the volcano expels at least 1,000 cubic kilometers of material) from supervolcanoes like Lake Taupo (26,500 years ago) and Yellowstone Caldera. According to the Toba catastrophe theory, 70 to 75 thousand years ago, a supervolcanic event at Lake Toba reduced the human population to 10,000 or even 1,000 breeding pairs, creating a bottleneck in human evolution. Some eruptions form pyroclastic flows, which are high-temperature clouds of ash and steam that can travel down mountainsides at speed exceeding an airliner.\n\nA blizzard is a severe winter storm with icy and windy conditions characterized by low temperature, strong wind and heavy snow.\n\nA drought is a period of below-average precipitation in a given region, resulting in prolonged shortages in the water supply, whether atmospheric, surface water or ground water.\nScientists warn that global warming and climate change may result in more extensive droughts in coming years. These extensive droughts are likely to occur within the African continent due to its very low precipitation levels and high temperatures.\n\nA hailstorm is a natural hazard where a thunderstorm produces numerous hailstones which damage the location in which they fall. Hailstorms can be especially devastating to farm fields, ruining crops and damaging equipment.\n\nA heat wave is a hazard characterized by heat which is considered extreme and unusual in the area in which it occurs. Heat waves are rare and require specific combinations of weather events to take place, and may include temperature inversions, katabatic winds, or other phenomena. There is potential for longer-term events causing global warming, including stadial events (the opposite to glacial \"ice age\" events), or through human-induced climatic warming.\n\nCyclone is a large scale air mass that rotates around a strong center of low atmospheric pressure.\n\nHurricane, tropical cyclone, and typhoon are different names for the cyclonic storm system that forms over the oceans. It is caused by evaporated water that comes off of the ocean and becomes a storm. The Coriolis effect causes the storms to spin.. \"Hurricane\" is used for these phenomena in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans, \"tropical cyclone\" in the Indian, and \"typhoon\" in the western Pacific.\n\nAn ice storm is a particular weather event in which precipitation falls as ice, due to atmosphere conditions. It causes damage.\n\nA tornado is a natural disaster resulting from a thunderstorm. Tornadoes are violent, rotating columns of air which can blow at speeds between and , and possibly higher. Tornadoes can occur one at a time, or can occur in large tornado outbreaks associated with supercells or in other large areas of thunderstorm development. Waterspouts are tornadoes occurring over tropical waters in light rain conditions.\n\nClimate change can increase or decrease weather hazards, and also directly endanger property due to sea level rise and biological organisms due to habitat destruction.\n\nGeomagnetic storms can disrupt or damage technological infrastructure, and disorient species with magnetoception.\n\nA flood results from an overflow of water beyond its normal confines of a body of water such as a lake, or the accumulation of water over land areas.\n\nWildfire is a fire that burns in an uncontrolled and unplanned manner. Wildfires can result from natural occurrences such as lightning strikes or from human activity.\n\nDisease is a natural hazard that can be enhanced by human factors such as urbanization or poor sanitation. Disease affecting multiple people can be termed an outbreak or epidemic.\n\nIn some cases, a hazard exists in that a human-made defense against disease could fail, for example through antibiotic resistance.\n\nEach of the natural hazard types outlined above have very different characteristics, in terms of the spatial and temporal scales they influence, hazard frequency and return period, and measures of intensity and impact. These complexities result in \"single-hazard\" assessments being commonplace, where the hazard potential from one particular hazard type is constrained. In these examples, hazards are often treated as isolated or independent. An alternative is a \"multi-hazard\" approach which seeks to identify all possible natural hazards and their interactions or interrelationships.\n\nMany examples exist of one natural hazard triggering or increasing the probability of one or more other natural hazards. For example, an earthquake may trigger landslides, whereas a wildfire may increase the probability of landslides being generated in the future. A detailed review of such interactions across 21 natural hazards identified 90 possible interactions, of varying likelihood and spatial importance. There may also be interactions between these natural hazards and anthropic processes. For example, groundwater abstraction may trigger groundwater-related subsidence.\n\nEffective hazard analysis in any given area (e.g., for the purposes of disaster risk reduction) should ideally include an examination of all relevant hazards and their interactions. To be of most use for risk reduction, hazard analysis should be extended to risk assessment wherein the vulnerability of the built environment to each of the hazards is taken into account. This step is well developed for seismic risk, where the possible effect of future earthquakes on structures and infrastructure is assessed, as well as for risk from extreme wind and to a lesser extent flood risk. For other types of natural hazard the calculation of risk is more challenging, principally because of the lack of functions linking the intensity of a hazard and the probability of different levels of damage (fragility curves). \"ThinkHazard!\" is an online tool that provides an overview of the hazards from eight natural hazards (river floods, earthquakes, water scarcity, cyclones, coastal floods, tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides) developed by the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery in partnership with other institutions.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations launched the International Early Warning Programme to address the underlying causes of vulnerability and to build disaster-resilient communities by promoting increased awareness of the importance of disaster risk reduction as an integral component of sustainable development, with the goal of reducing human, economic and environmental losses due to hazards of all kinds (UN/ISDR, 2000). \n\nThe 2006-2007 United Nations International Disaster Reduction Day theme was “Disaster reduction education begins in school”. The Foundation of Public Safety Professionals launched an international campaign with an international open essay or documentary competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4565834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565834", "title": "Navaratna", "text": "Navaratna\n\nNavaratna () is a Sanskrit compound word meaning \"nine gems\". Jewellery created in this style has important cultural significance in Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism among other religions.\n\nThe ancient origin of the Nine Gems—called \"Navaratna\" in Sanskrit, Hindi, Kannada, Burmese, Indonesian, and Nepali, \"Navarathinam\" in Tamil, \"Navarathnalu\" in Telugu, \"Navarathnam\" in Malayalam, \"Navaratna\" in Singhalese, \"Nawaratna\" in Malay, and \"Nawarat\" or \"Noppharat\" in Thai—has proved impossible to trace. Yet such importance is given to this combination of nine gems that they are recognised as sacred and royal in almost all the countries of Asia, including, India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, regardless of religious and cultural differences.\n\nIn Thailand, the Navaratna is officially recognised as a national and royal symbol of the king. A high award given by the king is called \"Noppharat Ratchawaraphon\" (the Ancient Auspicious Order of the Nine Gems).\nThe decoration consists of a single class (Knight). The insignia is:\n\nLate Thai astrologer \"Horacharn\" Thep Sarikabutr has given the meaning of these nine gems in his \"Parichad-Jataka\" (chapter 2, verse 21, page 35–36) translated as follows:\n\"Top quality and flawless ruby is the gem for the Sun, natural pearl for the Moon, red coral for Mars, emerald for Mercury yellow sapphire for Jupiter, diamond for Venus, blue sapphire for Saturn, hessonite for Rahu (ascending lunar node), and cat's eye for Ketu (descending lunar node).\"\n\nThis quote attributed to the Sanskrit \"Brihat Jatak\" is also quoted in the \"Mani-mala\" page 575, verse 79 by S.M. Tagore (1879), and also in the ancient \"Jataka Parijata,\" chap. 2, sloka 21 compiled by Sri Vaidyanatha Dikshitar,\n\"माणिक्यं तरणेः सुजात्यममलं मुक्ताफलं शीतगोः\"<br>\n\"माहेयस्य च विद्रुमं मरकतं सौम्यस्य गारुत्मतम\"<br>\n\"देवेज्यस्य च पुष्पराजमसुराचार्यस्य वज्रं शनेः\"<br>\n\"नीलं निर्मलमन्ययोश्च गदिते गोमेदवैदूर्यके\"<br>\n\nand reads in Sanskrit transliterated as follows:\n\"maaNikyaM taraNeH sujaatyamamalaM muktaaphalaM shiitagoH\"<br>\n\"maaheyasya cha vidrumaM marakataM saumyasya gaarutmatama\"<br>\n\"devejyasya cha puShparaajamasuraachaaryasya vajraM shaneH\"<br>\n\"niilaM nirmalamanyayoshcha gadite gomedavaiduuryake\"\n\nTranslation:\n\nThe traditional setting and arrangement of these nine gems is shown in the illustration. A ruby (representing the Sun) is always in the center, surrounded (clockwise from the top) by a diamond, a natural pearl, red coral, hessonite, a blue sapphire, cat's eye, a yellow sapphire, and an emerald. This is the same placement as the Nava-graha Yantra.\n\nTraditionally, no gem other than a ruby or a red spinel is set in the center of a nine gems arrangement. To do so is believed to go against the flow of nature. Because the Sun is the center of the solar system, its gem is positioned in the heart of a Navaratna Talisman.\n\nFor an example of the navaratna in a necklace setting, see Thailand's \"The Queen Sirikit Navaratna.\"\n\nIn the above \"sloka\" the words \"sujatyam-amalam\" (\"sujati\"=high born, and \"amala\"=completely pure or flawless) are significant. According to Asian belief systems, only clean, top-quality gems are considered to be auspicious.\n\nIn further support of this mostly overlooked dictate, in the Hindu \"\"Garuda Puranam\",\" chapter 68, verse 17, it is stated by narrator Sri Suta Goswami:\n\" \"Pure, flawless gems have auspicious powers which can protect one from demons, snakes, poisons, diseases, sinful reactions, and other dangers, while flawed stones have the opposite effect\".\"\n\nAnd from the ancient \" \"Agni Purana\",\" chapter 246, \"slokas\" 7 and 8:\n\"\"A gem free from all impurities and radiating its characteristic internal luster should be looked upon as an escort of good luck; a gem which is cracked, fissured, devoid of luster, or appearing rough or sandy, should not be used at all\".\"\n\n\"Just as a house can be fitted with a copper rod to absorb the shock of lightning, so the bodily temple can be benefited by various protective measures. Ages ago our yogis discovered that pure metals emit an astral light which is powerfully counteractive to negative pulls of the planets. Subtle electrical and magnetic radiations are constantly circulating in the universe [...] This problem received attention from our rishis; they found helpful not only a combination of metals, but also of plants and most effective of all faultless jewels of not less than two carats. The preventive uses of astrology have seldom been seriously studied outside of India. One little-known fact is that the proper jewels, metals, or plant preparations are valueless unless the required weight is secured, and unless these remedial agents are worn next to the skin.\"\n\nAccording to Hindu astrology, life on earth is influenced by the \"navagrahas\", or nine influencers. The placement of the \"navagrahas\" in one's horoscope supposedly have an influence throughout an individual's life. Wearing the nine gems is said to provide an astrological balance and benefit to the wearer. Hindu astrology also says that these gems potentially may have both positive or negative influences on human life, and that astrological gems should be worn only after consulting a Vedic astrologer, who is also conversant with gems. Based on an individual's sidereal horoscope, either a single gem or a combination of compatible gems is advised to be worn to harness beneficial planets or counteract harmful planets. The supposed \"astrological\" or \"piezoelectric\" benefit of wearing or donating gems has not been scientifically quantified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20854492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20854492", "title": "Neosymbolism", "text": "Neosymbolism\n\nNeosymbolism is a movement current in the visual arts genre. Active in the movement are artists in the United States, Denmark, the Czech Republic, and Canada.\n\nThe core philosophy of Neosymbolism, like that of its predecessor Symbolism, is the idea of \"correspondences\", the \"emblematic order\" of a world in which technology and the industrial reality have not yet drowned the forces of mysticism and belief. In a world where visual images exist to generate sales and revenue, Neosymbolist imagery attempts to preserve the relationship between image and the human soul. The imagery is necessarily representational rather than abstract. It borders on the narrative, but stops short of the commercial trap of illustration to convey an idea for profit. Artists like Norman Rockwell could qualify as Neosymbolist painters in that they adopt a social and cultural undercurrent and then convey it in terms of the cultural cliche—the image as representative of core aspects of the culture. The same is not true, however, of the generally accepted idea of commercial illustration which attempts more to influence cultural, political, and economic ideology than it tries to communicate an existential reality.\n\nNeosymbolism is fairly well-hidden within the culture, with few references and almost no broad-based visibility. In 1988, Nick A_Demos published a book in two editions. This was the first visible sign of an idea underlying a Neosymbolist philosophy. A_Demos then developed this first book of Neosymbolism into paintings. He was also the first to use the word \"Neosymbolism\", thus coining it.\n\nThere has also been a separate group using the Neosymbolism name for the creation of an international collective representing a number of artists who share the goals of preserving the visual art of Symbolism (the foundation of the ideas associated with the term Neosymbolism) in its original and essential sense. This preservation, as opposed to the \"non-sense\" of various philosophies that have evolved since the late nineteenth century and have deviated from the core Symbolist philosophy.\nThe Neosymbolist movement was born spontaneously in numerous locations across the globe. Many groups use the word but also do not want to be limited to only this discipline. A group of Danish Neosymbolists defined their movement thus: \n\nThe founder of the Canadian Neosymbolists, meanwhile, describes the foundations of their movement in \"Brief Summary of the Foundations of Canadian Neosymbolism,\" written by their founder, Gary F. Manzo.\n\n\nAnother international Neosymbolist collective that began exhibiting as a group in 2001 has a simpler definition:\n- The \"exploration of the emotional, political, and spiritual themes of the rapidly changing culture of the late 20th and early 21st (century) through the use of symbols both personal and universal.\"\nThis perspective of the Neosymbolist movement can be seen as a reaction against abstraction, an attempt to weave artists’ intellectual and spiritual experiences into the fabric of their work. Furthermore, the Neosymbolists’ palette is not limited to the use of words and ancient symbols of ideas, even as these remain powerful tools of expression.\n\nThe exhibition history of these groups, including their collaborations with the Danish Neosymbolist collective, are documented in reviews in the following periodicals. More information about this group can also be found at www.neosymbolism.eu \n\n"}
{"id": "4048623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4048623", "title": "Nestor's Cup", "text": "Nestor's Cup\n\nThe term Cup of Nestor or Nestor's Cup can refer to:\n\nThe Iliad of Homer describes a magnificent golden cup (\"depas\") that belongs to Nestor, the king of Pylos:\n\nIn 1876, Heinrich Schliemann excavated Grave Circle A at Mycenae, and in several shaft graves he found rich deposits of grave goods, including many golden objects. Shaft Grave IV yielded the richest finds, and among these Schliemann found a golden vessel which he identified as the \"Cup of Nestor\" as described in the \"Iliad\". Schliemann believed that the shaft graves dated to the time of the Trojan War, and identified Shaft Grave V as the tomb of Agamemnon. However, Schliemann's identification of the shaft graves with Homeric heroes was not accepted by many archaeologists in his own day. The shaft graves are conventionally dated to ca. 1600-1500 BC, some three centuries before the date of the Trojan War (if the war is to be considered as a historical event). Thus the \"Cup of Nestor\" from Mycenae would have been buried hundreds of years before Nestor supposedly made use of it at Troy.\n\nThe cup found at Mycenae differs from Homer's description in several respects, apart from being much smaller. The cup from Mycenae has two handles, whereas Homer's cup has four. Homer's cup has two doves per handle, but the cup found in the shaft grave has a single bird for each handle, and instead of the doves found on the Homeric cup, the birds on the Mycenae cup are falcons.\n\nThis cup is now in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens, Greece.\n\nThe so-called Cup of Nestor from Pithekoussai is a clay drinking cup (kotyle) that was found by Giorgio Buchner in 1954 at excavations in a grave in the ancient Greek site of Pithekoussai on the island of Ischia in Italy. Pithekoussai was one of the earliest Greek colonies in the West. The cup is dated to the Geometric Period (c.750-700 BC) and is believed to have been originally manufactured in Rhodes. It is now kept in the Villa Arbusto museum in the village of Lacco Ameno on the island of Ischia, Italy.\n\nThe cup bears a three-line inscription that was scratched on its side at a later time, and it was later used as a burial gift for a young boy. The inscription is now famous as being one of the oldest known examples of writing in the Greek alphabet, side by side with the so-called Dipylon inscription from Athens. Both inscriptions are dated to c.740-720 BC and have been linked to early writing in the island of Euboea.\n\nThe inscription is fragmented, as some shards of the cup are lost. It is written in the early Euboean form of the Western Greek alphabet, written from right to left in three separate lines. The text runs:\n\nThis is usually transcribed (in later classical orthography, with the missing parts in brackets) as:\n\nAt the beginning, many scholars propose the restitution \"I am...\". The second and third lines form a hexameter verse each, with a perfect regular scansion. Modern scholars agree that the text is meant as a humorous contrast between the richness of the legendary Cup of Nestor and the simplicity of the clay drinking cup. There are several interpretations, some of which make use of textual emendations, to explain the humorous effect of the perceived incoherence between the first line and the others. One emendation is that the beginning should read: \"\" ('Nestor's cup may be good, but...'), or \"\" ('Nestor's cup, begone!'). A third hypothesis is that the text was the result of a \"drinking-party game\": One player wrote the first line, then a second player was challenged to complement the poem with a second line, and so on. This is reinforced by the phrasing of the last verse, which says, albeit very elegantly, that the drinker will become sexually aroused. The most recent hypothesis is the one proposed by Yves Gerhard (\"Zeitschrift für Papyrologie und Epigraphik\", 176, 2011, pp. 7-9), with Νέστορος ἔ[ασον] εὔποτον ποτήριον at the first verse : \"Leave aside Nestor's cup, as excellent as it may be to drink from; but whoever drinks of this very cup shall immediately be seized by the desire of well-crowned Aphrodite.\" \n\nThe inscription has often been seen as a reference to the \"Iliad\". Barry B. Powell calls it \"Europe’s first literary allusion.\" Other scholars, however, deny that the inscription refers to the \"Iliad\", arguing that descriptions of Nestor's Cup existed in mythology and oral tradition independent of the Homeric poems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "513034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513034", "title": "Oddworld", "text": "Oddworld\n\nOddworld is a video game franchise and fictional universe, created by developers Oddworld Inhabitants under the direction of Lorne Lanning. The series has been released on various platforms such as PlayStation, Xbox, PlayStation 3, Windows, Wii U, and PC.\n\nThroughout games set in the \"Oddworld\" universe, the player's character goes on a quest to defend Oddworld's ecosystem from endangerment by industrial corporations.\n\nOddworld is the name of the planet on which all four Oddworld Inhabitants games are based, extant in another dimension. The planet was originally described as ten times the size of Earth; but Oddworld Inhabitants' president and creative developer Lorne Lanning has since explained that Oddworld's surface area is ten times the size of Earth's, given that Oddworld is predominantly a dry-land planet and Earth is predominantly water-covered. It has its own sun and thus its own orbit resulting in a unique clock and calendar.\n\nAt some point, the planet suffered huge natural turmoils that resulted in volcanic crusts forming a new layer upon the entire planet. When that crust collapsed, it created giant 1000-foot craters all over the planet. The planet has a total of three layers, each with its own climate, temperature and gravitational levels. The giant craters were then used by the various Oddworld species to house their cities, whose tips could be seen protruding above the crust surface when looking across the landscape.\n\nOnly one of Oddworld's continents has been featured in the games – Mudos – and only a tiny fraction of Mudos has been seen in-game. The journeys of Abe through \"Abe's Oddysee\", \"Abe's Exoddus\" and \"Munch's Oddysee\" take him through that small portion, composed of fields, jungles, deserts, caverns, and swamps. Much of the planet is decimated by industrialist species for their own profit; this is represented by city-sized factories and mass transit systems.\n\nThe protagonist species of the games in the Oddworld universe are the Mudokons (): an oviparous anthropoid with blue or green skin. In \"Abe's Oddysee\", \"Abe's Exoddus\", and \"Munch's Oddysee\", the Mudokons are peaceful, spiritual inhabitants of a mock-Paleolithic society. Oddworld creator Lorne Lanning has explained that the Mudokons were not always sympathetic protagonists, insofar as, though they represent a class of slaves exploited by the upper class, their ability to telepathically control other species contradicts that status. Their principal enemies are the Glukkons: a cephalopod-like anthropoid with only vestigial lower limbs (usually concealed by clothing), representing an industrial master class. Subordinate to the Glukkons are the Sligs, who appear as soldiers or body-servants. The Mudokons have two sacred or totemic species, both of which resemble arthropods, but are actually vertebrates: the towering Scrabs and the arachnid-like Paramites, whereof both are hunted by the Sligs on the Glukkons' behalf to make food or similar products. Mudokons, Scrabs, Paramites, and Glukkons were designed by Steven Olds.\n\nIn the Oddworld games, the GameSpeak feature allows the player to interact with the non-playable characters (NPCs). Examples of GameSpeak commands in the original game \"Abe's Oddysee\" are \"Hello,\" \"Follow me,\" and \"Wait.\" Rescuing Mudokons and opening certain doors are all achieved through GameSpeak. Enemies possessed by Abe can also use GameSpeak, and one can take control of Slig guards, use Glukkons to command subservient Sligs, or use Sligs to call their Slog pets to heel. GameSpeak also included burps and flatulence, for comical effect.\n\nIn \"Munch's Oddysee\" several creatures were added to the game including Vykkers, Interns, and Big Bro Sligs (with Armored versions of them occasionally being seen). Other species include Fuzzles, Meeps, and Gabbits. The Vykkers are purple, hairless humanoids with four arms and four legs; Interns resemble Vykkers, but have only two sets of limbs; and Big Bro Sligs are bigger and more powerful versions of the original Sligs. The Fuzzles are small, furry, spheroidal predator-scavengers; Meeps resemble sheep, but with only one limb and one eye; and the Gabbit is an amphibian species whose single hind leg serves as both foot and flukes.\n\nThe GameSpeak feature was modified in \"Stranger's Wrath\", with a single talk button that caused the Stranger to say something appropriate to the situation. This context-sensitive GameSpeak also worked for questioning the Clakker and Grubb townsfolk. This change made the talk button more comparable to a universal-action button in \"Stranger's Wrath\". New species included the Clakkers (anthropomorphic, flightless birds); the Outlaws (bulbous, hairless, blue-green humanoids); the Steef (feline-featured, gracile-legged centaurs); the Grubbs (amphibian-like bipeds; symbiont of the Steef); the Oktigi (amphibious, parasite-like cephalopods related to the Glukkons); and the Gloktigi (large, cephalopod-like bipeds related to the Oktigi and Glukkons).\n\nThe developers originally stated that the \"Oddworld\" series would be a pentalogy called the Oddworld Quintology, and that \"\" and \"\" games were bonus titles not counting toward the total of five. The Oddworld Adventures Games are handheld versions of \"Abe's Oddysee\" and \"Exoddus\". The Quintology was halted after the first two games, when the company decided to redirect its efforts toward film production. There were also a few titles that were hinted at in interviews and press releases, but they were never developed.\n\nAt the beginning of this game, Abe is a happy, ignorant worker at RuptureFarms, a meat-packing plant, but discovers that the plant's boss Molluck the Glukkon has decided to use the factory's Mudokon slaves as a source of meat. At the end of the game's introductory sequence, which is a retrospective voice-over by Abe, he runs for his life. The Mudokons’ spiritual leader, the BigFace, reveals that the Paramites and Scrabs slaughtered and processed by the Glukkons were formerly sacred to the Mudokons, and orders Abe to relight holy flames extinguished by the Glukkons. Having done this, Abe is empowered by Big Face and infiltrates RuptureFarms, where he frees the remaining slaves and destroys the Glukkon board of executives, but is himself captured. Should the player save a certain number of Mudokons, their free compatriots rescue Abe, and he receives a hero's welcome from the Mudokons he rescued. Should the player not save a sufficient number, Abe is executed by Molluck.\n\n\"Abe's Oddysee\" was very popular, and the bonus game \"Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus\" was released the following year. \"Abe's Exoddus\" begins where \"Abe's Oddysee\" ends. Abe's abilities in this game were similar to his abilities in the first game, with an expanded ability to communicate with other characters in the world using GameSpeak. Here, Abe is informed by ghosts of his species that Necrum, a Mudokon burial ground, is being excavated by Glukkons, using blind Mudokons as slaves. Abe then departs, with his companions Alf, Ben, Phos, Han, and Luke to find a cure to the sickness caused by the SoulStorm Brew, created from the excavated bones. Having cured his friends, he destroys the brewery. If the player is successful, Abe is again rescued by his friends; if not, he is captured by the brewery's owner, and electrocuted.\n\nNot long after of \"\", Abe helps Munch (the last living remnant of an amphibious race called the Gabbits) to save the Gabbits' eggs from destruction, in exchange for Munch's help in rescuing more captive Mudokons. On November 12, 2015, Oddworld: Munch's Oddysee was released for iOS.\n\n\"Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath\" is an action-adventure game published for the Xbox in 2005. The game's main character is a bounty hunter named Stranger. The game utilizes both third and first-person perspectives and is less puzzle-oriented than the previous three \"Oddworld\" games. The game has a Wild West setting. It was later ported to the PC and release through the digital distribution service Steam.\n\nIn April 2015, Oddworld's co-founder Lorne Lanning announced on a live stream that a full remake of \"Oddworld: Abe's Exoddus\" will be the next Oddworld project. There will be a voting poll where users will be able to vote what name the remake should be. So far, a lot of fans like the title \"Oddworld: Twice ze Flavor\": a reference to a line spoken in the animation. The game is in planning stages of development.\n\nOn March 14, 2016, Oddworld Inhabitants announced on social media that its next title, \"Oddworld: Soulstorm\", is slated for release in 2017. According to oddworld.com Oddworld: Soulstorm will now be released in 2019. \n\n\nIn 2009, the director of Oddworld, Lorne Lanning, announced that they planned to make an Oddworld digital download package for PC. This package contains \"Abe's Oddysee\", \"Abe's Exoddus\", \"Munch's Oddysee\" and \"Stranger's Wrath\". Oddworld Inhabitants unveiled their re-designed website on November 4, 2010, also declaring that the Oddboxx was still in development. On December 6, they announced that the Oddboxx would be released for the 2010 holiday season. The European and U.S. prices were revealed on December 14. On 17 December, Oddworld Inhabitants announced Oddboxx release date as December 20, with a 25% discount offer running until 9AM (PST) the following morning. On December 20, 2010, the Oddboxx was released on Steam. Achievements have been added to the two 3D games – \"Munch's Oddysee\" received 30, and \"Stranger's Wrath\" gained 20.\n\nOn April 29, 2011, JAW announced at GameCity Nights that the Oddboxx would be coming to the PlayStation Network (with other platforms to be announced). \"Stranger's Wrath HD\" was released on PlayStation 3 on December 27, 2011, and \"Munch's Oddysee HD\" in December 2012. Stranger's Wrath has 37 Trophies and Munch's Oddysee has 45 Trophies. Every Oddworld title is now available on the PSN, making the PS3 and Vita the only console to offer the entire Oddboxx other than the PC. These remakes are currently cancelled for Xbox 360.\n\nAbe is the strongly developed central character of the \"Oddworld\" series. He can also use GameSpeak, a way of communicating with other characters in the game. Along with Spyro the Dragon and Crash Bandicoot, Abe was one of the unofficial mascots of the PlayStation. \"Computer and Video Games\" described Abe as \"a new platform hero\" and a \"brilliant character.\" Lorne Lanning, Oddworld's creator, has stated that its \"characters are driven in a way that is fired by larger [moral] issues.\" The appearance of the Glukkon species was based on that of the villainous Teacher character from the 1982 film \"Pink Floyd—The Wall\".\n\nThe \"Oddworld\" games have received more than 100 industry awards. \"Oddworld: Abe's Oddysee\" received more than 24 awards and three nominations from the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences over 1997 and 1998. \"Oddworld\" also was nominated for a Grammy with the release of \"Abe's Exoddus: the Movie\" (a short film combined with cutscenes from \"Exoddus\"). In 2010, \"Game Informer\" included it on the list of ten gaming franchises that should be revived, specifically counting for the return of Abe.\n\nAs of March 18, 2014, The digital releases of \"Abe's Oddysee\" and \"Abe's Exoddus\" have sold one million units. The digital releases of all games combined have sold two million units. The franchise as a whole has sold seven million copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "50400956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50400956", "title": "Pandemonia", "text": "Pandemonia\n\nPandemonia is a character and persona created as conceptual art by an anonymous London-based artist that has appeared in the art and fashion world since 2009. Clad in a latex full-head mask with stylized hair and latex dresses, Pandemonia is seven feet tall and was described by Katia Ganfield of \"Vice\" as \"Roy Lichtenstein's blonde caricatures ... brought to life as a 7 ft Jeff Koons inflatable\". She is often accompanied by an inflatable white dog named Snowy.\n\nPandemonia told \"Stylist\":\nInitially a \"crasher\" at fashion and social events, Pandemonia eventually became a London Fashion Week VIP guest.\n\nPandemonia is a critical reflection and, as such, an intervention upon ideas of celebrity and femininity. She is a pointed manifestation of how these ideas intersect with mass media, social media, and the marketability of desire. The art of Pandemonia herself is that of a constructed figure placed in the landscape of media, fashion and art events that has instigated the media response by feeding back to the media its own language, imagery and ideals.\n\nThe growth of Pandemonia's celebrity is one of the themes in her art, which also explores archetypes of pop myth and reality.\n\nPandemonia’s art is not only cross-media (sculpture, digital art, photography, and performance), but also cross-generational as she ties the earliest moments of Pop Art to the most current worlds of celebrity, fashion and contemporary art, creating an arc and evolution which continues its ongoing exploration.\n\nIn 2016, Pandemonia was chosen by Camper as the protagonist and muse for its Kobarah shoe style, and has been featured in stores and billboards in several major cities including Paris, London, New York, and Tokyo.\n"}
{"id": "53180781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53180781", "title": "Philologos", "text": "Philologos\n\nPhilologos is an etymology column about Yiddish, Hebrew and Jewish words and phrases. It ran for 24 years in \"The Forward\"; since January 2015, it has run in \"Mosaic\". It is written anonymously.\n\nEdward Alexander is convinced Hillel Halkin is the column's author, and Mira Sucharov of \"Canadian Jewish News\" claimed \"Philologos\" is his pseudonym.\n\n"}
{"id": "34912374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34912374", "title": "Pilke House", "text": "Pilke House\n\nThe Pilke House is a combined office building and science centre in Rovaniemi, Finland, built in 2011, which is notable for its low carbon footprint and the use of sustainable wood products in its design.\n\nScience Centre Pilke, opened in June 2011, has interactive exhibits, presentations and short tours, and is designed for people of all ages. The exhibition at the Science Centre focuses on the sustainable use of northern forests: the growth and management of forests and forest-based products and commodities.\n\nThe Pilke House also houses the offices of Metsähallitus, the organization which manages Finland's 37 national parks, providing workspace for 135 people.\n\nThe building is a wooden beam-column structure, an example of ecological wood construction and Finnish architecture. The carbon dioxide emissions of the wooden Pilke House are about one third of those of a steel or concrete building of the same size. In 2011 Pilke House was presented with the Wooden Structure of the Year Award by the Puuinfo organization. The facade of the building consists of wooden bearing exterior wall blocks. The rooms and spaces inside the building can be altered and resized flexibly. The Pilke House is designed by the architectural studio Arkkitehtityöhuone Artto Palo Rossi Tikka Oy (APRT). The chief designer was Architect Teemu Palo; Juhani Suikki worked as the project's architect.\n\n"}
{"id": "4424771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4424771", "title": "Point system (driving)", "text": "Point system (driving)\n\nA penalty point or demerit point system is one in which a driver's licensing authority, police force, or other organization issues cumulative demerits, or \"points\" to drivers on conviction for road traffic offenses. Points may either be added or subtracted, depending on the particular system in use. A major offense may lead to more than the maximum allowed points being issued. Points are typically applied after driving offenses are committed, and cancelled a defined time, typically a few years, afterwards, or after other conditions are met; if the total exceeds a specified limit the offender may be disqualified from driving for a time, or the driving license may be revoked. Fines and other penalties may be applied additionally, either for an offense or after a certain number of points have been accumulated.\n\nThe primary purpose of such point systems is to identify, deter, and penalize repeat offenders of traffic laws, while streamlining the legal process. Germany introduced a demerit point system, in 1974, and one was introduced in New York at about that time.\n\nIn jurisdictions which use a point system, the police or licensing authorities (as specified by law) maintain, for each driver, a driving score—typically an integer number specified in \"points\". Traffic offenses, such as speeding or disobeying traffic signals, are each assigned a certain number of points, and when a driver is determined to be guilty of a particular offense (by whatever means appropriate in the region's legal system), the corresponding number of points are added to the driver's total. When the driver's total exceeds a certain threshold, the driver may face additional penalties, be required to attend safety classes or driver training, be subject to re-examination, or lose his/her driving privileges.\n\nThe threshold(s) to determine additional penalties may vary based on the driver's experience level, prior driving record, age, educational level attained, and other factors. In particular, it is common to set a lower threshold for young, inexperienced motorists.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, points can also be added if the driver is found to be significantly at fault in a traffic accident. Points can be removed from a driver's score by the simple passage of time, by a period of time with no violations or accidents, or by the driver's completion of additional drivers' training or traffic safety training.\n\nMajor traffic offenses, such as hit and run or drunk driving may or may not be handled within the point system. Such offenses often carry a mandatory suspension of driving privileges, and may incur penalties such as imprisonment.\n\n\nTraffic laws are the responsibility of the State and Territory Governments. Demerit points are used in all states and territories, and road authorities share information about interstate offenses.\n\nIn all states, drivers holding a full, unrestricted license will be disqualified from driving after accumulating 12 demerit points or more within a three-year period, except in New South Wales, where drivers are allowed 13 points in a three-year period. Those who can prove they are professional drivers are allowed an additional point. The minimum suspension period is three months, plus one further month for every extra four demerit points beyond the license's limit, with a cap in most states of five months (for 8 points or more over the suspension trigger; e.g. 20 points or more on a full license). An alternative to initially accepting the suspension, a driver can apply for a \"good behavior\" period of 12 months. In most states, drivers under a good behavior period who accumulate one or two further points (except Victoria does not allow any further offenses) have their license suspended for double the original period.\n\nMost states also provide for immediate suspension of a license, instead of or in addition to demerit points, in certain extreme circumstances. These generally include offenses for driving under the influence of alcohol or other drugs, or for greatly excessive speed.\n\nProvisional licence holders are allowed different numbers of demerit points over the lifetime of their licence, depending on their licence class, before being suspended from driving for three months. Holders of a P1 licence, which lasts 12–18 months (but can be renewed), are suspended after accumulating 4 points, while P2 licence holders are suspended after 7 points in a 24- to 30-month period (but can be renewed). Speeding offences for provisional licence holders are set to a minimum of four points, meaning that P1 holders will be suspended after one speeding offence of any speed.\n\nDuring holiday periods, double demerit points apply for speeding, seatbelt and helmet-related offences. Offences in school zones attract more demerit points than in other areas. Automatic suspensions apply for all drink- and drug-driving offences, as well as speeding by more than 30 km/h.\n\nVictoria introduced a demerit points suspension scheme in 1970. Learner and probationary drivers are sent a combined option-suspension notice for accumulating 5 points or more over any 12-month period. An option notice allows for either a 12-month bond or a three-month minimum suspension. If a driver breaches the bond by incurring one demerit point in the 12-month period, their licence is suspended for a minimum of six months. A limit of 12 points in any three-year period with the same option applies for full licence holders. The list of traffic offences and their respective points is in schedule 3 of the Road Safety (Drivers) Regulations 2009.\n\nIn Victoria, drunk-driving offences only result in immediate licence cancellation for unrestricted drivers with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.05 or higher. Readings lower than this have the option of a 10-point penalty being imposed of being taken immediately to court; this option still results in a minimum four-month suspension for novice drivers. Automatic suspensions apply for higher level charges, and re-licensing may require an order to install an interlocking device onto the vehicle. Automatic suspension periods of at least 1 month also apply for speeding by greater than 25 km/h over the speed limit, or any speed greater than 130 km/h.\n\nIn South Australia, if a traffic offence is committed against the Road Traffic Act 1961 or the Australian Road Rules 1999, demerit points may be incurred against a driver’s licence. The number of points incurred depends on the offence and how likely it is to cause a crash. If 12 or more demerit points are accumulated in any three-year period, a driver will be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driver’s licence or permit. Each three-year period is calculated based on the dates the offences were committed.\n\nIf a driver accumulates:\nDemerit points are incurred whether the offence is committed in South Australia or interstate.\nA demerit points scheme was introduced into the Northern Territory on 1 September 2007. Offences that accrue points include speeding, failing to obey a red traffic light or level crossing signal, failing to wear a seatbelt, drink driving, using a mobile phone, failure to display L or P plates, street racing, burnouts and causing damage.\n\nLearner and provisional drivers are subject to suspension for accumulating 5 points or more over a 12-month period. The three-year limit of 12 points still applies.\n\nIn Queensland provisional or learner drivers are entitled to accumulate 4 demerit points, and open licence holders 12 demerit points, without it affecting their licence. A driver who exceeds their demerit point threshold may elect to lose their licence for a period of 3 months or elect a good driving behaviour period which allows them to incur only one demerit point offences without it affecting their licence. If whilst on the good driving behaviour period a driver incurs more than one demerit point then they will lose their licence for a minimum of 6 months unless a Magistrates Court grants a special hardship licence \n\nBulgaria has implemented a penalty point system with a total of 34 points, introduced in 1999.\n\nDenmark has a penalty point system that penalizes drivers with a \"klip\" (\"cut/stamp\") for certain traffic violations. The term \"klip\" refers to a \"klippekort\" (\"punch card ticket\"). If a driver with a non-probationary license accumulates three penalty points, then police conditionally suspend the driver's license. To get a new license, suspended drivers must pass both written and practical drivers examinations. Drivers who have been suspended and first-time drivers must avoid collecting two penalty points for a three-year probationary period; if the driver has not accumulated any penalty points, then the driver is allowed an extra penalty point so they can have three maximum. Penalty points are deleted from the police database three years after they were assessed. Police can also unconditionally ban people from driving.\n\nIn England and Wales, penalty points are given by courts for some of the traffic offences listed in Schedule 2 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988. Where points are given, the minimum is 2 points for some lesser offences and the maximum 11 points for the most serious offences; some incidents can result in points being given for multiple offences or for multiple occurrences of the same offence (typically for having more than one defective tyre); the majority of applicable offences attract 3 or more penalty points. The giving of penalty points is obligatory for most applicable offences, but the number of points, and the giving of points for some of several offences, can be discretionary\nPoints remain on the driver's record, and an endorsement is made upon the driver's licence, for four years from conviction (eleven years for drink- and drug-related convictions). Twelve points on the licence within three years make the driver liable to disqualification; however this is not automatic, but must be decided by a law court.\n\nSince the introduction of the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995, if a person in the two years after passing their first practical test accumulates six penalty points, their licence is revoked by the DVLA, and the driver has to reapply and pay for the provisional licence, drive as a learner, and pay for and take the theory and practical tests before receiving a full licence again. In the case of egregious offences, the court may order the driver to pass an extended driving test before the licence is returned, even beyond the two-year probation period.\n\nSince 11 October 2004 there has been mutual recognition of driver disqualification arising from the penalty points given in England and Wales (and/or Scotland) with Northern Ireland; before that date disqualification in England and Wales would only have extended to Scotland by virtue of the driver registration system covering only Great Britain.\n\nThe driver registration system is separate from that of Great Britain with different laws covering penalty points and the offences to which they apply. In other respects the application of the system is similar to that in England and Wales. Offences to which penalty points apply are indicated in Schedule 1 of the Road Traffic Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.\n\nRoad traffic laws are mostly shared with, or similar to those of, England and Wales, although Scotland is a separate jurisdiction. The driver registration system currently covers all of Great Britain and the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 currently governs the penalty points system in Scotland. The main differences in the penalty points provisions of the 1988 Act are the theft and homicide offences attracting penalty points indicated in Schedule 2 Part II (\"Other Offences\") which are not common between Scots Law and English Law.\n\nThe Federal Motor Transport Authority (\"Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt\") located in Flensburg, operates an 8-point system for committed traffic offences. This system was introduced in May 2014, replacing the previous 18-points system that dates back to 1974. Points expire after 2.5 to 10 years depending on the type and severity of each committed offence. Under certain circumstances points can be reduced by attending formal training events. Obtaining eight or more points will result in a revocation of the driving licence; once revoked the licences will only reinstated after a psychological assessment following the ban. Information about own points can be obtained any time free of charge.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, twelve points accrued results in six months' disqualification. 38 regulatory offences notified by post incur 1-2 point penalties on payment of a fine. 10 more serious offences require a mandatory court appearance and incur 3-5 point penalties. The most serious offences are outside the penalty point system and incur automatic driving bans, and in some cases imprisonment.\n\nIn Italy the driver has 20 points by default, and receives a bonus of 2 points for every 2 years of correct behavior, with a maximum of 30 points.\n\nEach traffic violation incurs a specific point penalty (for example, ignoring a traffic light involves a penalty of 6 points). If the driver loses all points, the driving license is revoked.\n\nIn case of the second alcohol abuse in 2 years, the driving license will be revoked.\n\nA suspension is effective from when the driver is personally served with the suspension notice and they must surrender their driving license to the person giving them the notice.\n\nSince March 30, 2002, The Netherlands has a point system for starting drivers (5 years starting from the moment you first passed a driving test or 7 years if you passed before reaching the age of 18). A driver reaching 2 points in 5 years will lose the driving licence and has to pass a driving test again in order to be regain the licence. On October 1, 2014 this limit was lowered from 3 to 2 points. Drivers can get a point for:\nSome of these violations could also directly result in loss of the licence, however when a driver has 2 points the licence is automatically revoked and a driving test has to be passed again, whereas normally the violation would only result in the licence being suspended for several months. However, in Dutch media the effectiveness as been doubted, it was said that points were being given but not always correctly registered.\n\nThe system is called \"prikkbelastning\" with prikk(er) meaning point(s). Points are assessed to a driver's license for traffic violations which do not by themselves result in immediate revocation of the license.\n\nAfter July 1, 2011, the normal penalty for most traffic violations, such as failing to yield or failing to stop at red lights, is three dots in addition to the fine. Speeding violations of between 10 and 15 km/h (where the speed limit is 60 km/h or less), or between 15 and 20 km/h (where the speed limit is 70 km/h or more) result in two dots, for speeding violations below this no dots are assessed. Young drivers between 18-20 are penalized with twice the number of dots.\n\nA driver reaching 8 dots in three years loses his or her driving license for 6 months. Each dot is deleted when three years have passed since the violation took place. When the driving privileges are restored after the six-month ban, the dots which caused the suspension are deleted.\n\nWhen a driver accumulates 15 or more points within a two-year period, their licence is automatically suspended for one month.\n\nOntario uses a 15-point system where points are \"added\" to a driver's record following a conviction, though Ontario's point system is unrelated to safe driving behaviour (a lone driver using a high-occupancy vehicle lane in Ontario will earn three demerit points).\n\nOntario drivers guilty of driving offences in other Canadian provinces, as well as the States of New York and Michigan, will see demerit points added to their driving record just as if the offence happened in Ontario.\n\nThe point system is applied in different ways, or not at all, in different states. If a red light running traffic violation is captured by red light camera, no points are assessed. Aspects of a motorist's driving record (including points) may be reported to insurance companies, who may use them in determining what rate to charge the motorist, and whether to renew or cancel an insurance policy.\n\nArizona uses a point system where your license will be suspended if 8 points are accumulated in one year. Offenses that lead to this are the following:\n\nThere are other offenses that can count toward this (e.g. HOV lane misuse is a 3-point offense)\n\nDrivers who accumulate tickets for moving violations may be considered negligent operators and can lose their right to drive. Major offenses, such as hit and run, reckless driving, and driving under the influence, earn 2 points and remain on record for 13 years. Less serious offenses earn 1 point which remain for 39 months (3 years, 3 months).\n\nA driver is considered negligent if they accumulate:\n\nSuspension or Revocation by Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)\n\nNegligent drivers can be put on probation for one year (including a six-month suspension) or lose their privilege to drive. At the end of the suspension or revocation period, drivers need to re-apply for a license to drive.\n\nDMV will revoke a license after conviction for hit-and-run or reckless driving.\n\nSuspension by Judge\n\nA judge may suspend license following conviction for:\n\nWhen a driver is cited for a traffic violation, the judge \"may\" offer the driver the opportunity to attend a Traffic Violator School, this would include any online traffic school if the court allows. Drivers may participate once in any 18-month period to have a citation dismissed from their driving record this way. Upon dismissal of the citation, all record of the citation is removed and no points are accumulated.\n\nRegardless of the number of points accumulated, many serious offenses involving a vehicle are punishable by heavy fines or imprisonment.\n\nColorado uses an accumulating point system according to the Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles Point Schedule. Suspension of driving privileges can result from as few as 6 points in 12 months by a driver under 18 years old. Points remain on the driver's motor vehicle record for 7 years. Some motor vehicle offenses carry 12 points per incident, which could result in immediate suspension of the drivers license. Multiple traffic violation convictions can also result in a suspension of the drivers license if a sufficient number of points are accumulated during a 12- or 24-month period.\n\nFlorida uses a point system similar to that of Colorado. The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles is the department responsible for the issuance of Driver's Licenses in the state and will also track points issued to drivers who are licensed within the state. The following are point values assigned for the following infractions.\n\nSpeeding\n\nSpeeding Fines are doubled when the infraction occurs within an active school zone or a construction zone.\n\nMoving Violations\n\nAny person who collects a certain number of points within a given time frame will have their license automatically revoked by the state for the length of time listed.\n\nAny driver under the age of 18 who accumulates six or more points within a 12-month period is automatically restricted for one year to driving for business purposes only. If additional points are accumulated the restriction is extended for 90 days for every additional point received.\n\nIf a driver license was suspended in the state of Florida for points or as a habitual (but not DUI) traffic offender, or by court order, the holder must complete an advanced driver improvement course before driving privileges are reinstated.\n\nPoints issued against a driver's license in Florida remain on the license for at least 10 years.\n\nThe state of Florida issues its citizens points against their driver's license for infractions occurring anywhere in the United States.\n\nIn Massachusetts point system is known as Safe Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP). This encourages safe driving with lower premiums for drivers who do not cause accidents or commit traffic violations, and by ensuring that high-risk drivers pay a greater share of insurance costs. The points are accumulated over a six-year period, and reduced for sustained periods of safe driving.\n\nThe number of surcharge points assigned to each surchargeable incident is determined by the incident classification defined in the Safe Driver Insurance Plan:\n\nMinor Traffic Law Violation - 2 points\n\nMinor At-Fault Accident - 3 points\n\nMajor At-Fault Accident - 4 points\n\nMajor Traffic Law Violation - 5 points\nThe incident count is the number of surchargeable incidents. However, if more than one surcharge comes from one incident, it only counts as one surchargeable incident.\n\nThe Motor Vehicle Commission of New Jersey has a point system. If the motorist receives 6 points or more within a period 3 years or more, he/she will be forced to pay a surcharge annually for three years, which does include court fees and other penalties. If 12 points or more are accumulated on the motorist's license, then his/her license will be suspended. Other offenses that lead to automatic suspension of the motorist's license are the following:\n\n\nThe points range from 2 to 8 points, depending on the severity of the offense. Red light camera violations are not worth any points. The motorists can deduct points from their driving records. 3 points may be deducted one year after either the motorist's last moving violation and no violations for at least one year before. The motorist must also complete an approved driver improvement program. 2 points may be deducted if the motorist completes a defensive driving course. However, the motorist may receive point reductions every five years for every course he/she takes. \n\nNew York Statutes has a point system; after 11 points or 3 speeding tickets in 18 months, a driver's privileges are subject to suspension, with the possibility of requesting a review hearing. Points are counted from the date of the incident (usually the date of the ticket) rather than the date of conviction. If a driver accrues 6 or more points in an 18 month period they will be fined a \"NY driver responsibility assessment fee\".This fee will be $100 per year for 3 years. If a driver gets more than 6 points in 18 months, an additional $25 per year will be charged for each additional point you receive. This means 1 extra point will cost you $75 more (since the assessment lasts for 3 years).\n\nFor out-of-state offenses, New York State Department of Motor Vehicles does not record point violations, with the exception of violations from Quebec and Ontario. \n\nNorth Carolina operates two parallel point systems: one for DMV license suspension purposes and one for insurance purposes.\n\nThe DMV point system assigns 2 to 4 points upon conviction or an admission of guilt for most moving violations; non-moving violations carry no points. A driver's license is suspended for 60 days on the first suspension if twelve points are assessed against the license within a three-year period. Serious offenses, such as DWI and excessive speeding (more than 15 mph over the limit at a travelled speed of greater than 55 mph), result in an immediate suspension on conviction. Points are not assessed for up to two granted Prayers for Judgment Continued (PJC) within a five-year period, though some serious offenses (such as DUI, passing a stopped school bus, and speeding in excess of 25 mph over the posted speed limit) are ineligible for a PJC.\n\nThe insurance point system assigns points differently, assigning points to incidences of at-fault accidents and moving violations. Rather than using the points for a license suspension, the points lead to insurance surcharges of approximately 25-35% per point assessed. Notably, points are assessed for insurance purposes even if the license is suspended. Only points within the three years preceding the policy purchase date are considered, and a single PJC per household within the three-year period does not result in points assigned.\n\nIncidents from out-of-state are treated as though they occurred in North Carolina for point assessment purposes.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) has a point system that follows:\n\nIf the motorist accumulates 6 or more points on their license, they are in danger of losing their license. If the motorist is under 18 years of age and has 6 points or more on their license or receives a ticket for speeding 26 miles (or more) over the posted speed limit, then their license will be suspended. For every one year period (from the date of the most recent violation) that a motorist has no point related violations, PennDOT will remove a maximum of 3 points from their record. \n\nViolations range from 2 to 5 points (possibly with a mandatory departmental hearing), depending on the severity of the offense. PennDOT has the right to immediately suspend a motorist's license if any one of the following occurs:\n\n\nPoint system suspensions are as follows:\n\n\nIn South Carolina, if a motorist has six or more points on his/her driving record, a warning letter will be sent to the motorist's home address. If the motorist accumulates 12 or more points, then the license will be suspended. Motorists may reduce their points by taking a Defensive Driving Course. This course cannot be taken online and the course must be taken in the state of South Carolina. In addition, the course must be taken after the motorist has been assessed points on his/her license. However, point reductions may be made within a three-year period. If by any chance the motorist's license is in danger of being suspended, the course must be taken prior to the suspension start time. The points range from 2 to 6 points, depending on the severity of the offense. If a motorist receives a ticket for a DUI, then the license is automatically suspended.\n\nIn Texas most moving violations are worth two points, but three points are assessed in the case that an accident was caused. A license cannot be suspended as a result of point accumulation, however; instead, after six points have been accumulated, the driver must pay a \"Driver Responsibility Surcharge\" of $100 plus $25 per additional point each year that the license has six or more points recorded. Other convictions carry penalties that remain on the license for three years after conviction, such as a DWI conviction ($1000–$2000), driving without a license ($100), or driving without insurance ($250). The license is suspended if the surcharges are not paid.\n<br>Points clear from the license after three years, but the actual convictions clear from the record after five years, except for DWI convictions, which never expire.\n\nIn Brazil, all traffic violations incur a certain number of demerit points, depending on their severity, according to the 1997 Brazilian Traffic Code. If a driver accumulates more than 20 points (5 points for provisional drivers), the driving license is suspended and the driver has to take a traffic education course in order to regain the right (privilege) to drive. However, some infractions incur in immediate license suspension regardless of current point tally, such as drunk driving, engaging in street racing and others. It is also notable that many offenses that only apply to pedestrians also incur in demerit points.\n\nDemerit points expire a year after the date of the violation.\n\nThe following jurisdictions also apply point systems:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7361207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7361207", "title": "Rhythmic Music Conservatory", "text": "Rhythmic Music Conservatory\n\nThe Rhythmic Music Conservatory () is a music conservatoire in Copenhagen, Denmark. The RMC was founded in 1986 as an independent institution of higher education under the Danish Ministry of Culture and is the only school in Denmark specializing in contemporary music training programmes.\n\nIn 2005, it appointed British musician and composer Django Bates as Professor of Rhythmic Music.\n\n"}
{"id": "3285045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3285045", "title": "Schlesinger Library", "text": "Schlesinger Library\n\nThe Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America is a research library at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University. According to Nancy F. Cott, the Carl and Lily Pforzheimer Foundation Director, it is \"the largest and most significant repository of documents covering women's lives and activities in the United States.\" The library is named after Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., a noted history professor at Harvard during the 20th century; and his wife Elizabeth Bancroft Schlesinger, a noted feminist. The library was begun on August 26, 1943, when the Radcliffe College alumna Maud Wood Park '98, a former suffragist, donated her collection of books, papers, and memorabilia on female reformers to Radcliffe. This grew into a research library called the \"Women's Archives\", which was renamed in 1965 after Elizabeth Bancroft Schlesinger and her husband Arthur M. Schlesinger, as they were strong supporters of the library's mission.\n\nThe Schlesinger Library exists to document women's lives and endeavors. Its wealth of resources reveals the wide range of women's activities at home in the United States and abroad from the early 19th century to the present day. The library’s holdings include manuscripts; books and periodicals; and photographic and audiovisual material.\n\nThere are more than 2,500 unique manuscript collections from individuals, families, and organizations. Women's rights movements past and present, feminism, health and sexuality, social reform, and the education of women and girls are core manuscript holdings. Ordinary lives of women and families and the struggles and triumphs of women of accomplishment are richly documented in diaries and other personal records. Many collections, such as the papers of Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Pauli Murray, and the records of the National Organization for Women, feature political, organizational, and economic questions. In 1972 the National Organization for Women chose the Schlesinger Library as the archives for its records; the collection has grown to be one of its largest (300 linear feet of manuscripts and growing as of 2013) and one of its most heavily used by researchers.\n\nMore than 80,000 printed volumes include scholarly monographs as well as popular works. These cover topics including women’s rights; women and work; women’s health; women of color; comparative material about women in other cultures; works on women in the arts and in music; women and family; feminist and anti-feminist theory; and lesbian writings. Hundreds of periodical titles, including popular magazines such as \"Ladies' Home Journal\", \"Ebony\", \"Seventeen\", highlight domestic concerns, leisure pursuits, etiquette, fashion, and food.\n\nMore than 90,000 photographs, ranging from casual snapshots to the works of professional photographers, create an unparalleled visual record of private and public life. Audiotapes, videotapes and oral history tapes, and transcripts add the soundtrack to the story of women’s lives.\n\nThe library has two distinguished special collections. A culinary collection of over 15,000 books — spanning five centuries and global cuisines — is one of the world's most significant. This collection also includes the papers of several famous chefs and foodwriters such as M.F.K. Fisher, Julia Child, and Elizabeth David. The archives of Radcliffe College, 1879–1999 — including papers of college officers, students, and alumnae — richly record the history of women in higher education.\n\nThe Schlesinger Library is home to the Black Women Oral History Project, recorded between 1976 and 1981. With support from the Schlesinger Library, the project recorded a cross section of women who had made significant contributions to American society during the first half of the 20th century.\n\nWhile its focus for collecting is American women, the library has an abundance of print and manuscript materials bearing on issues around the globe as a result of American women's extensive travel and foreign residence. Some examples are letters of early missionaries in China, activists' accounts of the Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice, and the world-spanning speeches and writings of Shirley Graham Du Bois.\n\nDetailed records for the library’s manuscript collections as well as books and periodicals can be found in HOLLIS. The catalog record gives a description of the item or collection and provides other important information such as offsite location or access restrictions. Researchers can learn more about the manuscript collections by consulting the Schlesinger Library's Research Guides. Research Librarians can be reached through \"Ask a Schlesinger Librarian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4084872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4084872", "title": "Sherlock Hound", "text": "Sherlock Hound\n\nThe series was a joint project between Japan's Tokyo Movie Shinsha and the Italian public broadcasting corporation RAI. Six episodes were directed by Hayao Miyazaki in 1981 until problems with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's estate led to a suspension in production. By the time the issues were resolved Miyazaki had turned to other projects, and thus the remaining episodes were directed by Kyosuke Mikuriya. The show was finally aired in 1984. The same year a film version edited together of two of the episodes directed by Miyazaki (\"The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle\" and \"Treasure Under the Sea\") was released alongside \"Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind\" in Japanese theaters, entitled \"Meitantei Hōmuzu Gekijouban\".\n\nTwo pieces of theme music are used for the Japanese version: The opening theme is \"Sora Kara Koboreta Story\" (lit. \"Story Spilled From the Sky\") and the ending theme is \"Thames Gawa no Dance\" (lit. \"Dance of the Thames River\"), both performed by the Japanese duo, Da Capo. The series' international versions had a single piece of theme music for the opening and ending credits. The frequent soloists are Joe Farrell on soprano, tenor and alto saxophones and flute (in his final recording) and Milt Jackson on vibes. This English theme does not exist on the UK DVD's from Manga, instead instrumentals of both the Japanese opening and ending themes were used.\n\nIn 2002, Pioneer Entertainment released the series on DVD (Region 1, NTSC format). 6 volumes or 'Case Files' were released. Each disk was double sided with the Japanese version on one side and the English dubbed version on the other side.\n\nOn 1 February 2010, Manga Entertainment released the complete series on DVD (Region 2, PAL format) in the United Kingdom as a HMV exclusive set. It has since become available in other outlets. It only contains the English dubbed version. This release also lacks the episode title cards, though the episodes are listed on the DVD case and menus.\n\nDiscotek Media released the series in a complete, unabridged DVD box set with English and Japanese versions on September 30, 2014.\n\nOn 21 November 2014, Bandai Visual released the restored complete series on Blu-Ray (Region A, Japanese language only) in Japan as a 4-disc set.\n\n\"Note: B = episode number by broadcast order, Y = episode number by YouTube order. The Original air date listed is that of Japan, the first country to air the show.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "4417202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4417202", "title": "Society for Indecency to Naked Animals", "text": "Society for Indecency to Naked Animals\n\nThe Society for Indecency to Naked Animals, or SINA [pronounced \"sinna\"], was a satiric hoax perpetrated by comedian Alan Abel from 1959 to 1962. In 1959, Abel wrote a satirical story about this imaginary organization for \"The Saturday Evening Post\" but the editors rejected it. Abel then transformed his story into a series of press releases from the organization that garnered media attention. The group used the language and rhetoric of conservative moralists for the aim of clothing naked animals, including pets, barnyard animals, and large wildlife. An alleged debate within SINA was how large an animal had to be to require clothing. Slogans such as \"Decency today means morality tomorrow\" and \"A nude horse is a rude horse\" were offered. Abel persuaded the actor Buck Henry to play the group president, G. Clifford Prout, in public appearances, and Abel played the group vice president.\n\nSINA actually acquired ardent supporters, some of whom attempted to contribute a great deal of money. That aided SINA's (false) claims of gaining momentum - at one time they claimed tens of thousands of members. They also published a newsletter, in an issue of which is this anthem:\n\nThe hoax was exposed when staff on Walter Cronkite's CBS television news show recognized Buck Henry while broadcasting an interview. A 1963 \"Time\" article exposed the hoax. Abel managed to keep the newsletter going for several more years, hoaxing members who had not seen or heard of that Cronkite episode. The hoax appears in a recording of the short-lived television series \"One Man Show\" in an episode hosted by Groucho Marx.\n\nThe Society for Indecency to Naked Animals hoax was chronicled in Abel's book, \"The Great American Hoax\", published in 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284678", "title": "Tourist trolley", "text": "Tourist trolley\n\nA tourist trolley, also called a road trolley, is a rubber-tired bus designed to resemble an old-style streetcar or tram. The vehicles are usually fueled by diesel, or sometimes compressed natural gas.\n\nThe name refers to the American English usage of the word \"trolley\" to mean an electric streetcar. As these vehicles are not actually trolleys, and to avoid confusion with trolley buses, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) refers to them as \"trolley-replica buses\".\n\nTourist trolleys are used by both municipal and private operators. Municipal operators may mix tourist trolleys in with the regular service bus fleet to add more visitor interest or attract attention to new routes. In many cities tourist trolleys are used as circulators. Tourist trolleys are also run by private operators to carry tourists to popular destinations.\n\nIn San Francisco, tourist trolleys mimic the city's famous cable cars.\n\nTourist trolleys sometimes operate in places which also have streetcars. For example, tourist trolleys operate in Philadelphia, which also has actual trolley service.\n\nNotable operators of tourist-trolley buses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50893975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50893975", "title": "Zambales dice game", "text": "Zambales dice game\n\nThe Zambales dice game was played by the Negritos of the Zambales region of the Philippines. The dice game was recorded by William Allan Reed and published in his book entitled \"Negritos of Zambales, Volume 2, Parts 1-3\" (1904), and it is described on page 49.\n\nTwo small wooden cubes are used as dice, each marked with the following on its six sides: I, II, III, X, +, #. The player has five chances to throw the two dice. If the player pairs the dice, he or she wins (Reed does not clarify if the game ends immediately after pairing the dice, or if all five throws are taken regardless). If the player cannot pair the dice within five throws, the game ends as a loss.\n\nWagers are made usually for small items such as camotes, rough-made cigars, and tobacco leaves. Reed noticed that Roman numerals and modern symbols were used on the dice, but upon inquiry with the Negritos and the surrounding Filipino groups, the game appears to be very old having been handed down by the ancestors of the Negritos and observed when the surrounding Filipinos were first acquainted with the Negritos.\n"}
