{"id": "54446787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54446787", "title": "1997–98 Czech political crisis", "text": "1997–98 Czech political crisis\n\nCzech political crisis in 1997-1998 started as a result of irregularities in finances of Civic Democratic Party (ODS). It peaked with so-called \"Sarajevo atentate\", an attempt to remove Václav Klaus from leadership of Civic Democratic Party. The attempt occurred during Klaus' visit in Sarajevo. Crisis led to split in ODS and snap election in 1998.\n\nCivic Democratic Party (ODS) led by Václav Klaus won 1996 legislative election but its coalition with Civic Democratic Alliance and Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party was short of majority by one seat. Coalition then formed minority cabinet tolerated by Czech Social Democratic Party. Instability of government also worsened with economical problems of the country. Annual report of finances for 1995 showed that biggest sponsors of ODS are Lajos Bács a Radjiv M. Sinha. These names were revealed to be fictional and speculations that Milan Šrejber is the real sponsor behind these names showed up in media. Šrejber privatised Třinec Iron and Steel Works. These speculations were revealed to be true. Deputy CHairman of ODS Libor Novák accepted responsibility for the irregularities. Mladá Fronta Dnes informed on 28 November 1997 that ODS has a secret bank account in Switzerland. Josef Zieleniec then stepped down as Deputy Chairman of ODS and from position of Minister of Foreign affairs.\n\nCivic Democratic Alliance and Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party then left the government. Government ministers of ODS Jan Ruml and Ivan Pilip publicly appealed to Václav Klaus to step down as a leader of ODS. Klaus was at the time in Sarajevo. Klaus himself called their actions \"Sarajevo atentate\" which refereed to Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. This helped Klaus to interpret the situation in his favor.\n\nWhen Klaus returned from Sarajevo, he resigned as Prime Minister. This led to appointment of interim government. Klaus remained as leader of ODS. Civic Democrats held leadership election on 14 December 1997. Jan Ruml decided to run against Klaus. Klaus won by very large margin and remained leader of the Civic Democratic Party.\n\nRuml's and Pilip's wing then left the party and on 17 January 1998 formed Freedom Union (US). US quickly became second strongest party according to polls having more than 10%. Poll by STEM had Freedom Union on 18% while Civic Democrats would receive only 8%. Remains of ODS united behind Klaus who was during campaign for snap election in June presented as the only strong leader of Czech right. ODS then received 28% during the election which was above expectations. On the other hand, received 8.6% of votes. Czech Social Democratic Party won the election but was unable to form majority government. Klaus then signed Opposition Agreement with Social Democratic leader Miloš Zeman. Zeman became the new Prime Minister supported by Civic Democrats. Klaus became Speaker of Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Opposition Agreement allowed ODS to participate in management of the country.\n"}
{"id": "33573600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33573600", "title": "2008 Podgorica protest", "text": "2008 Podgorica protest\n\nOn October 9, 2008, Montenegro recognized Kosovo's independence. This move by the Montenegrin government, opposed by many in the country, led to a protest rally in Podgorica on October 13 attended by over 30,000 people. The rally, held in front of the Parliament of Montenegro building, was organized by the Serb List, Socialist People's Party of Montenegro, People's Party, Democratic Serb Party of Montenegro, and other opposition parties. It was backed by Movement for Changes and the Metropolitanate of Montenegro and the Littoral of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and Metropolitan Amfilohije Radović was announced as speaker. Demonstrators demanded that the Montenegrin government and Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic rescind their recognition of Kosovo. They waved Serbian flags, chanting \"Kosovo is Serbia\" and other slogans against the prime minister and his cabinet, calling them ustashas and shiptars. At the end of the rally, riots broke out and small groups attacked riot police in front of the parliament building. The rioters were eventually driven back by police, and 28 people were arrested. 34 people were injured.\n\nThe opposition planned a second protest on 16 October, but the Montenegrin police said that no protests from the opposition would be accepted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49918844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49918844", "title": "Ahrar al-Najran", "text": "Ahrar al-Najran\n\nThe Ahrar al-Najran ( \"ʾAḥrār an-Najrān\", \"Free Ones of the Najran\") movement is an alleged secessionist group in southern Saudi Arabia that arose in response to the Saudi-led intervention in the Yemeni civil war that started in 2015. Information on the alleged group has come almost exclusively from Iranian and allied Syrian media, with no independent corroboration on them. Since the summer of 2015 there have been no further reports on the alleged group.\nThe Najran Region was previously part of the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen and became a part of Saudi Arabia only in 1934, after the first Saudi-Yemeni war. Beside the eastern provinces in the country, the aforementioned province has an important Shia majority. When the Houthi uprising in Yemen started and Saudi-Arabia eventually intervened, Najran as a border province became part of the clashes and tribal forces in the region began to form, with Ahrar Al-Najran reportedly being an alliance of them.\n\n"}
{"id": "46996120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46996120", "title": "Anti-Fascist Committee of German Workers in Romania", "text": "Anti-Fascist Committee of German Workers in Romania\n\nThe Anti-Fascist Committee of German Workers in Romania (), originally the German Anti-Fascist Committee (; ), was an organization for ethnic Germans in Romania. Emmerich Stoffel was the chairman of the Committee and Philipp Geltz its secretary. The Committee was based in Bucharest and published the newspaper \"Neuer Weg\" ('New Path').\n\nBy the late 1940s the post-Second World War wave of discriminations against the German minority in Romania had subdued. At its meeting in December 1948, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Romanian Workers Party adopted a 'Resolution of the National Question' which outlined the need for the formation of a German Anti-Fascist Committee and a German-language newspaper. The Anti-Fascist Committee of German Workers in Romania was founded in March 1949 by a number of ethnic German party members, along with its organ \"Neuer Weg\". The Committee was tasked with mobilizing support for the communist government amongst ethnic German labourers. The Committee was one of a number of ethnic mass organizations in Romania at the time, alongside the Jewish Democratic Committee, Union of Slav Democratic Cultural Associations, the Hungarian Popular Union, the Democratic Committee of the Russian and Ukrainian Peoples, the Democratic Greek Committee and the Democratic Armenian Committee.\n"}
{"id": "4760287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760287", "title": "Auditor General of Pakistan", "text": "Auditor General of Pakistan\n\nThe Auditor General of Pakistan is a government organization and the prime and supreme audit institution (SAI) in the country for ensuring public accountability and fiscal transparency and oversight in governmental operations. The organization is expected to bring about improvements in the financial discipline and internal control environment in the executive departments for minimizing the possibility of waste and fraud.\n\nThe Auditor General is appointed by the President of Pakistan. His reports are presented to the Public Accounts Committees (PAC) of the National, Provincial, and District assemblies. His mandate enables him to strengthen the legislative oversight by providing an independent and objective assessment of the process of governance at the federal and provincial levels.\n\nCentral Superior Services (CSS), Chartered Accountant (CO82) or Cost Management Accountant (CO82) or Association of chartered certified accountant (ACCA) having;\nor any order in this regard by head of the state.\n\nThe budget of the Auditor General is classified as \"charged expenditure\", which means it is not voted upon by the Parliament, giving a degree of independence to the office. The Auditor General is assisted by a staff of about 1500 qualified officers.\n\nThe 1973 Constitution of Pakistan lays down the role and powers of the Auditor General as follows:\n\n2. Mr. Javaid Jehangir, Auditor General of Pakistan (August 2017 – Present) http://www.agp.gov.pk/index.php?page=agp-profile \n"}
{"id": "18453947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18453947", "title": "Australian Women's Party (1995)", "text": "Australian Women's Party (1995)\n\nThe Australian Women's Party was a minor Australian feminist party that was first registered with the Australian Electoral Commission on 19 December 1995 and was deregistered on 22 April 2003. Its main platform consisted of a constitutional alteration to ensure equal representation of men and women at all levels of government, included in the republic debate.\n"}
{"id": "5326401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5326401", "title": "Chechen Republic of Ichkeria", "text": "Chechen Republic of Ichkeria\n\nThe Chechen Republic of Ichkeria (; ], Cyrillic: Нохчийн Пачхьалкх Ичкери; ; abbreviated as \"ChRI\" or \"CRI\") was an unrecognized secessionist government of the Chechen Republic. \n\nThe First Chechen War (December 1994 - August 1996) resulted in the victory of the separatist forces. After achieving de facto independence from Russia in 1996, the Chechen government failed to establish order. The region became plagued by kidnappings and violence between different Chechen clans. In 1997 the Chechen Republic adopted sharia and carried out public executions. In November 1997 Chechnya was proclaimed an Islamic republic.\n\nA Second Chechen War began in July 1999 and ended in May 2000, with Chechen rebels continuing attacks as an insurgency.\n\nIn November 1990, Dzhokhar Dudayev was elected head of the Executive Committee of the unofficial opposition All-National Congress of the Chechen People (NCChP), which advocated sovereignty for Chechnya as a separate republic within the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Soviet coup d'état attempt on 19 August 1991 became the spark for the so-called Chechen revolution. On 21 August the NCChP called for the overthrow of the Supreme Soviet of the Chechen-Ingush Republic. In September 1991, NCChP squads seized the local KGB headquarters, and took over the building of the Supreme Soviet. The NCChP declared itself the only legitimate authority in the region. In October 1991, Dudayev was elected president of the Chechen-Ingush Republic. Dudayev, in his new position as president, issued a unilateral declaration of independence on 2 November 1991. Initially, his stated objective was for Checheno-Ingushetia to become a union republic within Russia. \n\nThe separatist Interior Minister promised amnesty to any prison inmates who would join pro-independence rallies. Among the prisoners was Ruslan Labazanov, who was serving a sentence for armed robbery and murder in Grozny and later headed a pro-Dudayev militia. As crowds of armed separatists gathered in Grozny, President Yeltsin sought to declare a state of emergency in the region, but his efforts were thwarted by the Russian parliament. An early attempt by Russian authorities to confront the pro-independence forces in November 1991 ended after just three days.\n\nIn early 1992 Dudayev signed a decree outlawing the extradition of criminals to any country which did not recognize Chechnya. After being informed that the Russian government would not recognize Chechnya's independence, he declared that he would not recognize Russia. Grozny became an organized crime haven, as the government proved unable or unwilling to curb criminal activities.\n\nDudayev's government created the constitution of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, which was introduced on March 1992. In the same month, armed clashes occurred between pro and anti-Dudayev factions, leading Dudayev to declare a state of emergency. Chechnya and Ingushetia separated on 4 June 1992. Relationship between Dudayev and the parliament deteriorated, and in June 1992 he dissolved the parliament, establishing direct presidential rule.\n\nIn late October 1992, federal forces were dispatched to end the Ossetian-Ingush conflict. As Russian troops sealed the border between Chechnya and Ingushetia to prevent arms shipments, Dudayev threatened to take action unless the Russians withdrew. Russian and Chechen forces mutually agreed to a withdrawal, and the incident ended peacefully.\n\nClashes between supporters and opponents of Dudayev occurred in April 1993. The President fired Interior Minister Sharpudin Larsanov after he refused to disperse the protesters. The opposition planned a no-confidence referendum against Dudayev for 5 June 1993. The government deployed army and riot police to prevent the vote from taking place, leading to bloodshed.\n\nAfter staging another coup attempt in December 1993, the opposition organized a Provisional Council as a potential alternative government for Chechnya, calling on Moscow for assistance.\n\nThe general feeling of lawlessness in Chechnya increased during the first seven months in 1994, when four hijacking accidents occurred, involving people trying to flee the country. In May 1994 Labazanov changed sides, establishing the anti-Dudayev Niyso Movement. In July 1994, 41 passengers aboard a bus near Mineralniye Vody were held by kidnappers demanding $15 million and helicopters. After this incident, the Russian government started to openly support opposition forces in Chechnya.\n\nIn August 1994 Umar Avturkhanov, leader of the pro-Russian Provisional Council, launched an attack against pro-Dudayev forces. Dudayev ordered the mobilization of the Chechen military, threatening a jihad against Russia as a response to Russian support for his political opponents.\n\nIn November 1994 Avturkanov's forces attempted to storm the city of Grozny, but they were defeated by Dudayev's forces. Dudayev declared his intention to turn Chechnya into an Islamic state, stating that the recognition of sharia was a way to fight Russian 'aggression'. He also vowed to punish the captured Chechen rebels under Islamic law, and threatened to execute Russian prisoners.\n\nThe First Chechen War began in December 1994, when Russian troops were sent to Chechnya to fight the separatist forces. During the Battle of Grozny (1994–95), the city's population dropped from 400,000 to 140,000. Most of the civilians stranded in the city were elderly ethnic Russians, as many Chechens had support networks of relatives living in villages who took them in.\n\nSalambek Khadzhiyev was appointed leader of the officially recognized Chechen government in early 1995. The conflict ended after the Russian defeat in the Battle of Grozny of August 1996.\nAfter the Russian withdrawal crime became rampant, with kidnappings and murders multiplying as rival rebel factions fought for territory. In December 1996 six Red Cross workers were killed, leading most foreign aid workers to leave the country.\n\nParliamentary and presidential elections took place in January 1997 in Chechnya and brought to power Aslan Maskhadov. The elections were deemed free and fair, but no government recognized Chechnya's independence, except for the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Ethnic Russian refugees were prevented from returning to vote by threats and intimidation, and Chechen authorities refused to set up polling booths outside the republic.\n\nMaskhadov sought to maintain Chechen sovereignty while pressing Moscow to help rebuild the republic, whose formal economy and infrastructure were virtually destroyed.\n\nIn May 1997 the Russia–Chechen Peace Treaty was signed by Maskhadov and Yeltsin. Russia continued to send money for the rehabilitation of the republic; it also provided pensions and funds for schools and hospitals. Most of these transfers were stolen by corrupt Chechen authorities and divided between themselves and favoured warlords. Nearly half a million people (40% of Chechnya's prewar population) have been internally displaced and lived in refugee camps or overcrowded villages. The economy was destroyed. Two Russian brigades were stationed in Chechnya and did not leave. Maskhadov made efforts to rebuild the country and its devastated capital Grozny by trading oil in countries such as the United Kingdom.\n\nChechnya had been badly damaged by the war and the economy was in shambles. Aslan Maskhadov tried to concentrate power in his hands to establish authority, but had trouble creating an effective state or a functioning economy. As part of the peace negotiations, Maskhadov demanded $260 billion in reparations from Russia, an amount equivalent to 60% of the Russian GDP.\n\nThe war ravages and lack of economic opportunities left numbers of armed former guerrillas with no occupation but further violence. Machine guns and grenades were sold openly and legally in Grozny's central bazaar. The years of independence had some political violence as well. On 10 December Mansur Tagirov, Chechnya's top prosecutor, disappeared while returning to Grozny. On 21 June the Chechen security chief and a guerrilla commander fatally shot each other in an argument. The internal violence in Chechnya peaked on 16 July 1998, when fighting broke out between Maskhadov's National Guard force led by Sulim Yamadayev (who joined pro-Moscow forces in the second war) and militants in the town of Gudermes; over 50 people were reported killed and the state of emergency was declared in Chechnya.\n\nMaskhadov proved unable to guarantee the security of the oil pipeline running across Chechnya from the Caspian Sea, and illegal oil tapping and acts of sabotage deprived his regime of crucial revenues and agitated his allies in Moscow. In 1998 and 1999 Maskhadov survived several assassination attempts, which he blamed on foreign intelligence services. The attacks were seen as more likely to originate from within Chechnya, as the Kremlin deemed Maskhadov an acceptable negotiating partner for the Chechen conflict.\n\nIn December 1998, the supreme Islamic court of Chechnya suspended the Chechen Parliament, asserting that it did not conform to the standards of sharia. After the Chechen Vice-President Vakha Arsanov defected to the opposition, Maskhadov abolished his post, leading to a power struggle. In February 1999 President Maskhadov removed legislative powers from the parliament and convened an Islamic State Council. At the same time several prominent former warlords established the Mehk-Shura, a rival Islamic government. The Shura advocated the creation of an Islamic confederation in the North Caucasus, including the Chechen, Dagestani and Ingush peoples.\n\nOn 9 August 1999, Islamist fighters from Chechnya infiltrated Russia's Dagestan region, declaring it an independent state and calling for a jihad until \"all unbelievers had been driven out\". This event prompted Russian intervention, and the beginning of the Second Chechen War. As more people escaped the war zones of Chechnya, President Maskhadov threatened to impose sharia punishment on all civil servants who moved their families out of the republic.\n\nSince the fall of Grozny in 2000 some of the Ichkerian government was based in exile, including in Poland and the United Kingdom. On 23 January 2000 a diplomatic representation of Ichkeria was based in Kabul during the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. In June 2000 Akhmed Kadyrov was appointed as head of the official administration of Chechnya.\n\nOn 31 October 2007, the separatist news agency Chechenpress reported that Dokka Umarov had announced the Caucasus Emirate and declared himself its Emir. He integrated the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria as Vilayat Nokhchicho. This change of status was rejected by some Chechen politicians and military leaders who continue to support the existence of the republic. Since November 2007, Akhmed Zakayev says he is now the Prime Minister of Ichkeria's government in exile.\n\nDudayev spent the years from 1991 to 1994 preparing for war, mobilizing men aged 15-55 and seizing Russian weapons depots. The Chechen National Guard counted 10,000 troops in December 1994, rising to 40,000 insurgents by early 1996.\n\nMajor weapons systems were seized from the Russian military in 1992, and on the eve of the First Chechen War they included 23 air defense guns, 108 APC/tanks, 24 artillery pieces, 5 MiG-17/15, 2 Mi-8 helicopters, 24 multiple rocket launchers, 17 surface to air missile launchers, 94 L-29 trainer aircraft, 52 L-39 trainer aircraft, 6 An-22 transport aircraft, 5 Tu-134 transport aircraft.\n\nSince the declaration of independence in 1991, there has been an ongoing battle between secessionist officials and federally appointed officials. Both claim authority over the same territory.\n\nIn late 2007, the President of Ichkeria, Dokka Umarov, declared that he had renamed the republic to Noxçiyc̈ó and converted it into a province of the much larger Caucasus Emirate, with himself as Emir. This change was rejected by some members of the former Chechen government-in-exile.\n\nIchkeria was a member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization. Former president of Georgia, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, deposed in a military coup of 1991 and a leading participant in the Georgian Civil War, recognised the independence of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria in 1993.\n\nDiplomatic relations with Ichkeria were also established by the partially recognized Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan under the Taliban government on 16 January 2000. This recognition ceased with the fall of the Taliban in 2001. However, despite Taliban recognition, there were no friendly relations between the Taliban and Ichkeria—Maskhadov rejected their recognition, stating that the Taliban were illegitimate. In June 2000, the Russian government claimed that Maskhadov had met with Osama bin Laden, and that the Taliban supported the Chechens with arms and troops. In the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, the Bush administration called on Maskhadov to cut all links with the Taliban.\n\nIchkeria also received vocal support from the Baltic countries, a group of Ukrainian nationalists and Poland; Estonia once voted to recognize, but the act never was consummated due to pressure applied by both Russia and the pro-Russian elements within the EU. Dudayev also had contacts with Islamist movements and guerrillas in Jordan, Lebanon and Iran.\n\nKidnappings, robberies, and killings of fellow Chechens and outsiders weakened the possibilities of outside investment and Maskhadov's efforts to gain international recognition of its independence effort. The Chechen government claimed that the Russian secret services were behind the kidnappings.\n\nKidnappings became common in Chechnya, procuring over $200 million during the three year independence of the chaotic fledgling state, but victims were rarely killed. Kidnappers would at times mutilate their captives and send video recordings to their families, to encourage the payment of ransoms.\n\nSome of the kidnapped (most of whom were non-Chechens) were sold into indentured servitude to Chechen families. They were openly called slaves and had to endure starvation, beating, and often maiming. In 1998, 176 people had been kidnapped, and 90 of them had been released during the same year according to official accounts. There were several public executions of criminals.\n\nIn 1998, four western engineers working for Granger Telecom were abducted and beheaded after a failed rescue attempt. Gennady Shpigun, the Interior Ministry liaison to Chechen officials, was kidnapped in March 1999 as he was leaving Grozny Airport; his remains were found in Chechnya in March 2000.\n\nPresident Maskhadov started a major campaign against hostage-takers, and on 25 October 1998, Shadid Bargishev, Chechnya's top anti-kidnapping official, was killed in a remote controlled car bombing. Bargishev's colleagues then insisted they would not be intimidated by the attack and would go ahead with their offensive. Other anti-kidnapping officials blamed the attack on Bargishev's recent success in securing the release of several hostages, including 24 Russian soldiers and an English couple. Maskhadov blamed the rash of abductions in Chechnya on unidentified \"outside forces\" and their Chechen henchmen, allegedly those who joined Pro-Moscow forces during the second war.\n\nAfter the First Chechen War, the country won de facto independence from Russia, and Islamic courts were established. In September 1996 a Sharia-based criminal code was adopted, which included provisions for banning alcohol and punishing adultery with death by stoning. Sharia was supposed to apply to Muslims only, but in fact it was also applied to ethnic Russians who violated Sharia provisions. In one of the first rulings under sharia law, in January 1997 an Islamic court ordered the payment of blood money to the family of a man who was killed in a traffic accident. In November 1997 the Islamic dress code was imposed on all female students and civil servants in the country. In December 1997, the Supreme Sharia Court banned New Year celebrations, considering them \"an act of apostasy and falsity\".\n\nConceding to an armed and vocal minority movement in the opposition led by Movladi Udugov, in February 1999, Maskhadov declared The Islamic Republic of Ichkeria, and the Sharia system of justice was introduced. Maskhadov hoped that this would discredit the opposition, putting stability before his own ideological affinities. However, according to former Foreign Minister Ilyas Akhmadov, the public primarily supported Maskhadov, his Independence Party, and their secularism. This was exemplified by the much greater numbers in political rallies supporting the government than those supporting the Islamist opposition. Akhmadov notes that the parliament, which was dominated by Maskhadov's own Independence Party, issued a public stating that President Maskhadov didn't have the constitutional authority to proclaim sharia law, and also condemning the opposition for \"undermining the foundations of the state\".\n\nEthnic Russians made up 29% of the Chechen population before the war, and they generally opposed independence. Due to the mounting anti-Russian sentiment following the declaration of independence, by 1994 over 200,000 ethnic Russians had become refugees. Already in 1991-1992, about 90,000 ethnic Russians had been forced to leave. Initially this was accomplished through intimidation, later escalating into more direct methods of removal, including anti-Russian public disorder and targeting by armed gangs.\n\nEthnic Russians left behind faced constant harassment and violence. The separatist government acknowledged the violence, but did nothing to address it, blaming it on Russian provocateurs. Russians became soft target for criminals, as they knew the Chechen police would not intervene in their defense. The start of the First Chechen War in 1994 created a second wave of ethnic Russian refugees. By the end of the conflict in 1996, the Russian community had nearly vanished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38794693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38794693", "title": "Class consciousness", "text": "Class consciousness\n\nIn political theory and particularly Marxism, class consciousness is the set of beliefs that a person holds regarding their social class or economic rank in society, the structure of their class, and their class interests. It is an awareness that is key to sparking a revolution that would, \"create a dictatorship of the proletariat, transforming it from a wage-earning, property-less mass into the ruling class\" according to Karl Marx.\n\nWhile German theorist Karl Marx rarely used the term \"class consciousness\", he did make the distinction between \"class in itself\", which is defined as a category of people having a common relation to the means of production, and a \"class for itself\", which is defined as a stratum organized in active pursuit of its own interests.\n\nDefining a person's social class can be a determinant for their awareness of it. Marxists define classes on the basis of their relation to the means of production – especially on whether they own capital. Non-Marxist social scientists distinguish various social strata on the basis of income, occupation, or status.\n\nEarly in the nineteenth century, the labels \"working classes\" and \"middle classes\" were already coming into common usage. \"The old hereditary aristocracy, reinforced by the new gentry who owed their success to commerce, industry, and the professions, evolved into an \"upper class\". Its consciousness was formed in part by public schools (in the British sense where it refers to a form of private school) and Universities. The upper class tenaciously maintained control over the political system, depriving not only the working classes but the middle classes of a voice in the political process.\"\n\nClass consciousness, as described by Georg Lukács's famous \"History and Class Consciousness\" (1923), is opposed to any psychological conception of consciousness, which forms the basis of individual or mass psychology (see Freud or, before him, Gustave Le Bon). According to Lukács, each social class has a determined class consciousness which it can achieve. In effect, as opposed to the liberal conception of consciousness as the basis of individual freedom and of the social contract, Marxist class consciousness is not an origin, but an achievement (i.e. it must be \"earned\" or won). Hence, it is never assured: the proletariat's class consciousness is the result of a permanent struggle to understand the \"concrete totality\" of the historical process.\n\nAccording to Lukács, the proletariat was the first class in history that may achieve true class consciousness, because of its specific position highlighted in the \"Communist Manifesto\" as the \"living negation\" of capitalism. All others classes, including the bourgeoisie, are limited to a \"false consciousness\" which impedes them from understanding the totality of history: instead of understanding each specific moment as a portion of a supposedly deterministic historical process, they universalize it and believe it is everlasting. Hence, capitalism is not thought as a specific phase of history, but is naturalized and thought of as an eternal solidified part of history. Says Lukács, this \"false consciousness\", which forms ideology itself, is not a simple error as in classical philosophy, but an illusion which cannot be dispelled.\n\nMarx described it in his theory of commodity fetishism, which Lukács completed with his concept of reification: alienation is what follows the worker's estrangement to the world following the new life acquired by the product of his work. The dominant bourgeois ideology thus leads the individual to see the achievement of his labour take a life of its own. Furthermore, specialization is also seen as a characteristic of the ideology of modern rationalism, which creates specific and independent domains (art, politics, science, etc.). Only a global perspective can point out how all these different domains interact, argues Lukács. He also points out how Kant brought to its limit the classical opposition between the abstract form and the concrete, historical content, which is abstractly conceived as irrational and contingent. Thus, with Kant's rational system, history becomes totally contingent and is thus ignored. Only with Hegel's dialectic can a mediation be found between the abstract form and the abstract notion of a concrete content.\n\nEven if the bourgeois loses his individual point of view in an attempt to grasp the reality of the totality of society and of the historical process, he is condemned to a form of false consciousness. As an individual, he will always see the collective result of individual actions as a form of \"objective law\" to which he must submit himself (liberalism has gone so far as seeing an invisible hand in this collective results, making capitalism the best of all possible worlds). By contrast, the proletariat would be, according to Lukács, the first class in history with the possibility to achieve a true form of class consciousness, granting it knowledge of the totality of the historical process.\n\nThe proletariat takes the place of Hegel's \"Weltgeist\" (\"World Spirit\"), which achieves history through \"Volksgeist\" (\"the spirit of the people\"): the idealist conception of an abstract Spirit making history, which ends in the realm of Reason, is replaced by a materialist conception based not on mythical Spirits, but on a concrete \"identical subject-object of history\": the proletariat. The proletariat is both the \"object\" of history, created by the capitalist social formation; but it is also the \"subject\" of history, as it is its labour that shapes the world, and thus, knowledge of itself is also, necessarily, knowledge of the reality and of the totality of the historical process. The proletariat's class consciousness is not immediate; class consciousness must not be mistaken either with the consciousness of one's future and collective interests, opposed to personal immediate interests.\n\nThe possibility of class consciousness is given by the objective process of history, which transforms the proletariat into a commodity, hence objectifying it. Class consciousness is thus not a simple subjective act: \"as consciousness here is not the consciousness of an object opposed to itself, but the object's consciousness, the act of being conscious of oneself disrupts the objectivity form of its object\" (in \"Reification and the Proletariat's Consciousness\" §3, III \"The proletariat's point of view\"). In other words, instead of the bourgeois subject and its corresponding ideological concept of individual free will, the proletariat has been transformed into an object (a commodity) which, when it takes consciousness of itself, transforms the very structure of objectivity, that is of reality.\n\nThis specific role of the proletariat is a consequence of its specific position; thus, for the first time, consciousness of itself (class consciousness) is also consciousness of the totality (knowledge of the entire social and historical process). Through dialectical materialism, the proletariat understands that what the individual bourgeois conceived as \"laws\" akin to the laws of nature, which may be only manipulated, as in Descartes's dream, but not changed, is in fact the result of a social and historical process, which can be controlled. Furthermore, only dialectical materialism links together all specialized domains, which modern rationalism can only think as separate instead of as forming a totality.\n\nOnly the proletariat can understand that the so-called \"eternal laws of economics\" are in fact nothing more than the historical form taken by the social and economical process in a capitalist society. Since these \"laws\" are the result of the collective actions of individuals, and are thus created by society, Marx and Lukács reasoned that this necessarily meant that they could be \"changed\". Any attempt in transforming the so-called \"laws\" governing capitalism into universal principles, valid in all times and places, are criticized by Lukács as a form of false consciousness.\n\nAs the \"expression of the revolutionary process itself\", dialectical materialism, which is the only theory with an understanding of the totality of the historical process, is the theory which may help the proletariat in its \"struggle for class consciousness\". Although Lukács does not contest the Marxist primacy of the economic base on the ideological superstructure (not to be mistaken with vulgar economic determinism), he considers that there is a place for autonomous struggle for class consciousness.\n\nIn order to achieve a unity of theory and praxis, theory must not only tend toward reality in an attempt to change it; reality must also tend towards theory. Otherwise, the historical process leads a life of its own, while theorists make their own little theories, desperately waiting for some kind of possible influence over the historical process. Henceforth, reality itself must tend toward the theory, making it the \"expression of the revolutionary process itself\". In turn, a theory which has as its goal helping the proletariat achieve class consciousness must first be an \"objective theory of class consciousness\". However, theory in itself is insufficient, and ultimately relies on the struggle of humankind and of the proletariat for consciousness: the \"objective theory of class consciousness is only the theory of its objective possibility\".\n\nEconomist Ludwig Von Mises argued that \"Marx confus[ed] the notions of caste and class\". Mises allowed that class consciousness, and the associated class struggle, were valid concepts in some circumstances where rigid social castes exist; e.g., when slavery is legal, and slaves thus share a common motive for ending their disadvantaged status relative to other castes. \"But no such conflicts are present in a society in which all citizens are equal before the law,\" according to Mises. \"No logical objection can be advanced against distinguishing various classes among the members of such a society. Any classification is logically permissible, however arbitrarily the mark of distinction may be chosen. But it is nonsensical to classify the members of a capitalistic society according to their position in the framework of the social division of labor and then to identify these classes with the castes of a status society.\"\n\nPhilosopher Leszek Kołakowski argued that the \"theory of class consciousness is false\" and that attempts by Marxist–Leninists to advance the concept of class consciousness necessarily led to totalitarianism.\n\nSociologist Ernest van den Haag has argued:\n\nIndeed, it has been argued that the class interests of any class must be empirically determined by examining their actual behavior - they do not have objectively existing interests. People must assume social identities as members of a class before it becomes possible to identify what those interests are by examining their behavior and positions. It has been observed, for example, that workers form attachment to the capitalist system (through trade unions) rather than antagonism.\n\n"}
{"id": "7092305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7092305", "title": "Command and control", "text": "Command and control\n\nCommand and control or C2 is a \"set of organizational and technical attributes and processes ... [that] employs human, physical, and information resources to solve problems and accomplish missions\" to achieve the goals of an organization or enterprise, according to a 2015 definition by military scientists Marius Vassiliou, David S. Alberts and Jonathan R. Agre, The term often refers to a military system.\n\nVersions of the United States Army \"Field Manual 3-0\" circulated circa 1999, define C2 in a military organization as the exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commanding officer over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of a mission.\n\nA 1988 NATO definition, command and control is the exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated individual over assigned resources in the accomplishment of a common goal. An Australian Defence Force definition, similar to that of NATO, emphasises that C2 is the system empowering designated personnel to exercise lawful authority and direction over assigned forces for the accomplishment of missions and tasks. (The Australian doctrine goes on to state: The use of agreed terminology and definitions is fundamental to any C2 system and the development of joint doctrine and procedures. The definitions in the following paragraphs have some agreement internationally, although not every potential ally will use the terms with exactly the same meaning.)\n\nThe US \"Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms\" defines command and control as: \"The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Also called C2. Source: JP 1\".\n\nThe edition of the \"Dictionary\" \"As Amended Through April 2010\" elaborates, \"Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.\" However, this sentence is missing from the \"command and control\" entry for the edition \"As Amended Through 15 August 2014.\"\n\nCommanding officers are assisted in executing these tasks by specialized staff officers and enlisted personnel. These \"military staff\" are a group of officers and enlisted personnel that provides a bi-directional flow of information between a commanding officer and subordinate military units.\n\nThe purpose of a military staff is mainly that of providing accurate, timely information which by category represents information on which command decisions are based. The key application is that of decisions that effectively manage unit resources. While information flow toward the commander is a priority, information that is useful or contingent in nature is communicated to lower staffs and units.\n\nThis term is also in common use within the computer security industry and in the context of cyberwarfare. Here the term refers to the influence an attacker has over a compromised computer system that they control. For example, a valid usage of the term is to say that attackers use \"command and control infrastructure\" to issue \"command and control instructions\" to their victims. Advanced analysis of command and control methodologies can be used to identify attackers, associate attacks, and disrupt ongoing malicious activity.\n\nThere are a plethora of derivative terms which emphasise different aspects, uses and sub-domains of C2. These terms come with a plethora of associated abbreviations – for example, in addition to C2, command and control is also often abbreviated as C, and sometimes as C&C.\n\nCommand and control have been coupled with\nand others.\n\nSome of the more common variations include:\nand others.\n\nA command and control center is typically a secure room or building in a government, military or prison facility that operates as the agency's dispatch center, surveillance monitoring center, coordination office and alarm monitoring center all in one. Command and control centers are operated by a government or municipal agency.\n\nVarious branches of the US military such as the US Coast Guard and Navy have command and control centers. They are also common in many large correctional facilities.\n\nA command and control center that is used by a military unit in a deployed location is usually called a \"command post\". A warship has a Combat Information Center for tactical control of the ship's resources, but commanding a fleet or joint operation requires additional space for commanders and staff plus C4I facilities provided on a Flagship (e.g., aircraft carriers), sometimes a Command ship or upgraded logistics ship such as USS \"Coronado\".\n\nCommand and control warfare encompasses all the military tactics that use communications technology. It can be abbreviated as CW. An older name for these tactics is \"signals warfare\", derived from the name given to communications by the military. Newer names include information operations and information warfare.\n\nThe following techniques are combined:\nwith the physical destruction of enemy communications facilities. The objective is to deny information to the enemy and so disrupt its command and control capabilities. At the same time precautions are taken to protect friendly command and control capabilities against retaliation.\n\nIn addition to targeting the enemy's command and control, information warfare can be directed to the enemy's politicians and other civilian communications.\n\n\nUS and other NATO specific:\n\n\nOther\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27518594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27518594", "title": "Council of State of Vaud", "text": "Council of State of Vaud\n\nThe Council of State of Vaud () is the executive organ of the Canton of Vaud, in Switzerland. Vaud has a seven-member \"Conseil d'État\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33969177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33969177", "title": "Cyber Insider Threat", "text": "Cyber Insider Threat\n\nCyber Insider Threat, or CINDER, is a digital threat method. In 2010, DARPA initiated a program under the same name (Cyber Insider Threat (CINDER) Program) to develop novel approaches to the detection of activities within military-interest networks that are consistent with the activities of cyber espionage.\n\nThe CINDER threat is unlike other vulnerability based attacks in that the action taken by the initiator is not based on unauthorized access by unauthorized objects or authorized objects, it is based on the concept that authorized access by authorized objects will normally occur (along with their subsequent actions) within the security boundary. This object action will not be viewed as an attack, but normal use when analyzed by standard IDS-IPS, logging and expert systems. The CINDER Mission will be seen as an unauthorized disclosure once data exfiltration has been realized. At that time, the resultant CINDER Case would change all object actions related to the disclosure from \"Authorized Use by an Authorized Object\" to \"Unauthorized Use by an Authorized Object\".\n\nNote: For the initial CINDER case, the controlling agent will still be seen as an Authorized Object based on the fact that the security system has passed an evaluation for Assurance and Functionality.\n\nThe Cyber Insider Threat has continued to be a known issue since the mid-1980s. The following NIST material dated March 1994, \"Internal Threats\", shows how it was defined in its infancy.\n\"System controls are not well matched to the average organization's security policy. As a direct result, the typical user is permitted to circumvent that policy on a frequent basis. The administrator is unable to enforce the policy because of the weak access controls, and cannot detect the violation of policy because of weak audit mechanisms. Even if the audit mechanisms are in place, the daunting volume of data produced makes it unlikely that the administrator will detect policy violations. Ongoing research in integrity and intrusion detection promise to fill some of this gap. Until these research projects become available as products, systems will remain vulnerable to internal threats.\"\n\nThere are many prerequisite dimensions to CINDER activity, but one primary dimension must always be met. That is one of System Ownership. Prerequisite principles of system ownership and information dominance within the area of object action must be part of any CINDER mission.\n\nIn CINDER action, each mission dimension and each resulting case issue can be distilled down to one entity, one agent. and one action. At the specific time an agent completes an action, that entity, agent and action owns the environment they are transiting or using. And if they are successful in committing that specific transaction and are not interrupted or at least measured or monitored by the owner, that entity will have, if for only a moment in time, dominance and ownership over that object.\n\nTo detect past CINDER activity when an exposure has been realized, one must reconcile all object actions (any exchange or transaction between two agents that can be measured or logged) and analyze the result.\n\nPresent concepts of how one detects current or future CINDER activity has followed the same path as detecting past CINDER activity: A reconciliation of all data from all object action, then the application of heuristics, expert system logic and mining models to the data aggregated. But building automated logic and analysis models have proved difficult since once again, the insider does not attack they use (authorized access by authorized objects). Breaking this \"use\" and \"how they use\" out in a system that has low assurance and a low percentage of reconciliation will always cause the system to produce far too many false positives for the method to be acceptable as a true CINDER security solution.\n\nOne main tenet of CINDER detection has become that only a system that has high assurance and high reconciliation can be controlled (Owned) to the extent that current and future CINDER actions can be identified, monitored or terminated.\n\nDARPA has an ongoing Cyber Insider Threat or CINDER program to detect insider threats to computer systems. It is under DARPA's Strategic Technology Office (STO). The project was timed to begin around 2010/2011. In comparison with traditional computer security, CINDER assumes that malicious insiders already have access to the internal network; thus it attempts to detect a threat's \"mission\" through analysis of behavior rather than seeking to keep a threat out. The government documentation uses an analogy of the \"tell\" idea from the card game of poker.\n\nAccording to Ackerman in Wired, the impetus for the program came after WikiLeaks disclosures such as the Afghan War documents leak. Robert Gates' philosophy of information in the military was to emphasize the access for frontline soldiers. In the face of mass-leaking, the CINDER type of response allows the military to continue that philosophy, rather than simply cutting off access to information en masse. The project was started by Peiter Zatko, a former member of the L0pht and cDc who left DARPA in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "7866559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7866559", "title": "Dyak (clerk)", "text": "Dyak (clerk)\n\nDyak (, ) is a historical Russian bureaucratic occupation whose meaning varied over time and approximately corresponded to the notions of \"chief clerk\" or \"chief of office department\".\n\nA dyak was a title of the chief of a structural division of a \"prikaz\". For example, \"посольский дьяк\" (\"posolsky dyak\") is a \"dyak\" of the \"Posolsky Prikaz\" (Diplomacy Department). A duma dyak (думный дьяк) was the lowest rank in the Boyar Duma (15-17th centuries).\n\nOutside of the grand princely administration, dyaki were also found in ecclesiastical (episcopal) administrations, particularly in Veliky Novgorod. In this sense they may be more broadly defined as secretaries or clerks. According to the \"Life\" of Archbishop Iona of Novgorod (r. 1458-1470), although he was a poor orphan, the woman who raised him hired a dyak to teach him reading and writing. Chronicle sources also indicate that Archbishop Feofil (r. 1470-1480) had his dyak write up a charter recognizing Grand Prince Ivan III's powers following the grand prince's seizure of the city in 1478.\n\nAfter the Muscovite take-over, the office of dyak continued as one of the more important administrators of the House of Holy Wisdom, as the archiepiscopal (and later metropolitan) administration in Novgorod the Great was known. The Dvortsovyi Dyak essentially ran the financial and administrative affairs of the archbishops and metropolitans (they were so important that Boris Grekov wrote that one could not brew kvas in the city without his permission.) This, however, was after the Muscovite conquest, and the administrative structure of the House of Holy Wisdom had been reorganized along the lines of the grand princely administration in Moscow. Indeed, when Archbishop Sergei (1483–1484) arrived in Novgorod following his election, he was accompanied by a dyak and a treasurer who were to see that the archiepiscopal administration complied with Muscovite norms.\n\nSee also Voyevoda#Siberia, Podyachy.\n\nSee \"Deacon#Cognates\" for other historical terms derived from the Greek \"diakonos\". In particular, the term \"dyachok\" is constructed in Russian language as a diminutive from \"dyak\", however it has a completely different meaning. \n\nSee also \"pevchy dyak\" (tsar's or church singer).\n"}
{"id": "4675365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675365", "title": "European Convention on Human Rights Act 2003", "text": "European Convention on Human Rights Act 2003\n\nThe European Convention of Human Rights Act 2003 is an act of the Irish parliament, the Oireachtas, which gave further effect to the European Convention on Human Rights in Irish law. It is substantially similar to the UK's Human Rights Act 1998.\n\nThe Act did not incorporate the convention into Irish law, but rather requires the courts to interpret legislation in line with the convention insofar as it is possible to do so, and requires certain public bodies to perform their functions in a manner compatible with the convention, unless precluded by law. The Act also provides that courts may make a declaration of incompatibility regarding a breach of a convention right, but unlike a declaration that a law is repugnant to the constitution, a declaration of incompatibility has no effect on the continued validity and enforcement of that law.\n\nSection 2 of the Act requires that, subject to the existing rules of statutory interpretation, the Courts should apply both common law rules and statutory provisions so that they are compatible with the Convention.\n\nSection 3 requires that, subject to any other provisions of domestic law, 'organs of state' must perform their duties in a manner compatible with the convention. Anyone who suffers injury, loss or damage as a result such a body's failure to do this is entitled to damages. Section 1 defines an organ of state as a tribunal or any other body established or any body through which the powers of the State are exercised.\n\nSection 5 of the Act grants to the courts the power to make a declaration that a statutory provision or common law rule is incompatible with the Convention. Such a declaration does not render the law in question invalid, rather the Taoiseach is obliged to bring any such declaration to the attention of both Dáil and Seanad Éireann. A litigant who has been granted a declaration of incompatibility may receive monetary compensation in accordance with the principles of just satisfaction under Article 41 of the Convention, but the award of such compensation is entirely within the discretion of the Government.\n\nThe Convention itself is set out in Schedules 1-4 of the Act.\n\n\"Carmody v Minister for Justice\" was decision of the High Court and the first major case to deal with the new legislation. Carmody was a farmer who had been charged with a number of offences under the Diseases of Animals Act 1966. He challenged the State's failure to provide him with free legal aid, claiming that it was contrary to both the Constitution of Ireland and the European Convention on Human Rights. In her judgment, Ms. Justice Laffoy applied the rule of avoidance and concluded that, in the absence of any express statement in the Act to the contrary, the court should rule on the Convention issue before examining its constitutionality. The plaintiff lost on both counts. This decision has been negatively received by some commentators.\n\nFiona de Londras & Cliona Kelly (2010) The European Convention on Human Rights Act: Operation, Impact and Analysis Dublin, Round Hall/Thomson Reuters.\n\n"}
{"id": "13926488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13926488", "title": "First International Syndicalist Congress", "text": "First International Syndicalist Congress\n\nThe First International Syndicalist Congress was a meeting of European and Latin American syndicalist organizations at Holborn Town Hall in London from September 27 to October 2, 1913. Upon a proposal by the Dutch National Labor Secretariat (NAS) and the British Industrial Syndicalist Education League (ISEL), most European syndicalist groups, both trade unions and advocacy groups, agreed to congregate at a meeting in London. The only exception was the biggest syndicalist organization worldwide, the French General Confederation of Labor (CGT). Nevertheless, the congress was held with organizations from twelve countries participating. It was marked by heated debate and constant disagreements over both tactics and principles. Yet, it succeeded in creating the International Syndicalist Information Bureau as a vehicle of exchange and solidarity between the various organizations and the \"Bulletin international du mouvement syndicaliste\" as a means of communication. It would be viewed as a success by almost all who participated.\n\nSyndicalism was a radical current in the labor movement of the early 20th century. Syndicalists viewed class interests as irreconcilable and advocating overthrowing capitalism and replacing it with workers' collectivized control of industry. To this end, syndicalist doctrine emphasized the importance of revolutionary labor unions, independent of all political parties. Unions had to be politically neutral or even hostile to political activity in order to unite the entire working class, though in practice anarchism played a significant role in syndicalist unions. Eschewing political means, syndicalists embraced direct action, particularly the strike, as the most natural weapon in the working class's struggle culminating in a revolutionary general strike. Finally, syndicalists embraced proletarian internationalism as they aimed to overcome national divisions and nationalism.\n\nThere was no international syndicalist organization prior to World War I. Syndicalists saw themselves as the heirs of the First International, the international socialist organization formed in 1864. The First International had two wings: one federalist and represented by the followers of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and later by the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin and a centralist wing represented above all by Karl Marx. Syndicalists identified with the former. In 1889, the Second International was formed as an association of socialist parties and anarchists were expelled in 1893. The International Secretariat of National Trade Union Centers (ISNTUC) brought together trade unions, most of them highly centralized and affiliated with socialist parties. However the French General Confederation of Labour (\"Confédération générale du travail\" in French, CGT), the largest syndicalist organization and the role model for syndicalist unions around the world, and the Dutch National Labor Secretariat (\"Nationaal Arbeids-Secretariaat\" in Dutch, NAS) also belonged. They sought to revolutionize ISNTUC from within, with limited success, so the Dutch left in protest in 1907.\nIn 1909, the NAS declared: \"To us it appears [...] necessary that the question of whether the isolation of revolutionary organizations is to be perpetuated should be posed seriously in every country\" and suggested an international syndicalist congress. The Catalan syndicalist group \"Solidaridad Obrera\", which would later become the National Confederation of Labor (CNT), was quick to support this proposal. The CGT was opposed, wanting to remain affiliated with ISNTUC. Such a congress was likely to cause a split between the radical and the reformist wings within the CGT. The French syndicalist leader Pierre Monatte convinced the Dutch to withdraw their proposal.\n\nIn February 1913, the British Industrial Syndicalist Education League (ISEL) and the NAS independently published very similar invitations to an international syndicalist congress. Both criticized the existing labor internationals, especially the reformist social democratic International Secretariat of National Trade Union Centers (ISNTUC), from which, according to the Dutch group, \"all revolutionary propaganda [...] is excluded systematically.\" Likewise, its political counterpart, the Second International, was attacked by the British as a \"body that exacts a pledge of parliamentarism and is composed of glib-tongued politicians who promise to do things for us, but cannot even if they wanted.\" Furthermore, the syndicalists lamented the lack of an international syndicalist organization. The British proposal called for the congress to be held in London, while the Dutch left this question open and called for suggestions for the site of the meeting.\nThe invitations were immediately received warmly by numerous syndicalists, including the Free Association of German Trade Unions (\"Freie Vereinigung deutscher Gewerkschaften\" in German, FVdG), Pierre Ramus's journal \"Wohlstand für Alle\" from Austria, the Central Organisation of the Workers of Sweden (SAC), the Spanish periodical \"Tierra y Libertad\", the Italian Syndicalist Union (\"Unione Sindacale Italiana\" in Italian, USI), the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) in the United States, and the Syndicalist League of North America. Christiaan Cornelissen, editor of the \"Bulletin international du mouvement syndicaliste\" and a prominent anarchist in Paris, also welcomed the idea, but considered the May date proposed by ISEL too soon, as the decentralized decision-making employed by syndicalists required more time for preparation.\n\nThe French General Confederation of Labor (CGT), the largest syndicalist organization in the world, was critical of the proposal. It strove to radicalize ISNTUC from within. While in many countries both radical syndicalist and mainstream socialist labor federations existed, in France, there was only the syndicalist CGT. The FVdG in Germany, for example, where the ISNTUC-affiliated Free Trade Unions would not allow a rival organization from the country to join, did not have this possibility. The CGT wanted to preserve unity within the European labor movement, even with non-syndicalist groups, and was afraid affiliation with a syndicalist international would jeopardize its relations to the mainstream socialist unions. Moreover, the CGT was in a crisis. Reformists were rapidly gaining influence and making it harder to forge alliances with other radical unions.\n\nSyndicalists outside of France rejected the CGT's view. Some held that the CGT could participate in the syndicalist congress while remaining in the ISNTUC. Others felt membership in the social democratic international and syndicalist doctrine were incompatible and considered revolutionizing the social democrats impossible. They warned that the CGT was straying from the revolutionary course by collaborating with the reformist social democrats. They pointed out that the French union already had a considerable reformist wing.\n\nThe French responded by pointing to the fact that the British ISEL's domestic policy was similar to its international aims. The ISEL did not constitute a union in its own right, but rather tried to infiltrate and radicalize existing unions, particularly the General Federation of Trade Unions. Pierre Monatte, a CGT leader, declared that if it were to change course, it would harm unionism in all of Europe. He also insisted that it would be impossible for the CGT to both participate in ISNTUC and the syndicalist congress.\n\nMeanwhile, Cornelissen and the ISEL leaders Tom Mann and Guy Bowman adopted a new stance toward the CGT. Bowman expressed confidence that the CGT would change its mind once the congress came around. Mann offered the CGT that it could host the congress. Knowing the CGT as a whole would not change its position, the two attempted to draw the \"bourses du travail\", the regional organizations of the CGT, to participate. Cornelissen, himself active in the French syndicalist movement, explicitly adopted this approach: \"Is the French movement organized on the basis of \"the autonomy of local and regional unions\" or is it not?\", he asked. These approaches were, however, largely unsuccessful, as the CGT leaders, even at a local level, were not impressed.\n\nAs the CGT did not participate, the \"New Statesman\" would later liken the congress to \"playing \"Hamlet\" without the Prince of Denmark\".\n\nDiscussion turned to the question of what the exact goal of the meeting should be. The Dutch NAS, the British ISEL, and the German FVdG felt that \"the creation of an autonomous Syndicalist International is a necessity for the self-preservation and onward development of syndicalism\", as \"Die Einigkeit\", the organ of the Germans, put it. Opposition to this view came from two different directions. Cornelissen felt it would easier to attract French unions to a congress meant to establish international relations rather than the foundation of an international organization. Alceste De Ambris, a leader in the Italian USI, on the other hand argued that international secretariats like ISNTUC were useless. He preferred international congresses which could help the national federations break out of their isolation.\nAmong the organizations endorsing the congress, most wished it take place in the Netherlands. In April, however, ISEL unilaterally announced the congress would take place in late September in London. Not wanting to start a dispute, the Dutch NAS gave in and agreed the meeting would take place in the UK. Soon thereafter problems with the organization of the congress turned up. ISEL was starting to break apart and shaken by internal disputes, especially between the leaders Tom Mann and Guy Bowman. Financial troubles further aggravated these problems. Cornelissen and Albert Jensen of the Swedish SAC voiced their concerns about how the preparations were going in June and July respectively. Bowman, then ISEL's sole leader as Mann was in the United States on a speaking tour, announced the congress would take place from September 27 to October 2 at Holborn Hall in London. He also announced an agenda for the meeting would be appearing soon, but he was not heard from for another while.\n\nIn August, the debate with the CGT flared up again. Writing in \"La Bataille Syndicaliste\", Léon Jouhaux declared the CGT militants' solidarity with the syndicalist congress, yet made it very clear that his organization would not participate. Cornilessen used these remarks to point out to local leaders that it was up to them whether they came to London or not. De Ambris's response was more aggressive; he accused the CGT of desertion and reiterated his rejection of international secretariats, particularly of ISNTUC. In response, \"La Vie Ouvrière\", the CGT's official organ, attacked both Cornelissen and De Ambris in a piece drafted by a number of leading French syndicalists, including Monatte, Jouhaux, Alphonse Merrheim, Alfred Rosmer, and Georges Dumoulin. It claimed the uses of the congress, the exchange of information and mutual aid between national federations, were outweighed by the risk of deepening schisms within the European labor movement, especially if a formal international organization was to be founded. In the course of the debate the tone became increasingly contentious. In his response, Cornelissen claimed the CGT was not \"corresponding to the current development of our international syndicalist movement nor [...] particularly revolutionary.\" The IWW accused the CGT of being financed by the French government. The CGT fired back by claiming that Cornelissen did not understand syndicalism.\n\nMeanwhile, preparations in London were scarcely coming along. It became necessary for Christiaan Cornelissen to travel to England to salvage the project. At the time, the Irish Transport and General Workers' Union, which had syndicalist elements, was involved in the Dublin Lockout and the British were focused on supporting this struggle. Bowman even suggested postponing the congress or holding it in secret, but Cornelissen would have none of it. Cornelissen with the help of some London-based supporters completed the preparations.\n\nThe congress was attended by 38 delegates representing 65 organizations from Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Cuba, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom with a total membership between 220,000 and 250,000. By contrast, in 1913 ISNTUC affiliates had a total membership of over seven million in 19 countries.\n\nThe congress in London was attended by delegates of many different kinds of organizations: educational and propaganda groups, national syndicalist confederations, union federations, local trade unions, local branches of national trade unions, local trades councils. All major European national syndicalist union confederations, except for the French CGT, sent delegates: the German FVdG, the Dutch NAS, the Swedish SAC, and the Italian USI. The Danish \"Fagsoppositionens Sammenslutning\" (FS) was represented by the SAC delegate Albert Jensen. Argentina was represented by two syndicalist confederations. The Argentine Regional Workers' Confederation (CORA) gave its mandate to the Italian Alceste De Ambris, while the more radical Argentine Regional Workers' Federation (FORA) sent a delegate of its own. The Brazilian Regional Workers' Federation, unable to send a delegate for financial reasons, opted to be represented by Guy Bowman. The Spanish National Confederation of Labour (CNT), banned at the time, was unable to have a representative travel to London, but the Catalan regional confederation was represented by a member exiled to France. Despite the CGT boycotting the meeting, a number of French delegates were present. The Paris hatters' union, six unions of construction workers from the capital, as well as three independent textile unions all sent delegates. The Belgian regional union \"Union des Syndicats de la Province de Liège\" was represented at the meeting, as was the Cuban Havana Union of Café Employees. From the United Kingdom, the hosts, ISEL, attended and a number of British trade unions sent a total of nine delegates. Thus, a total number of twelve countries from Europe and Latin America had delegates at the First International Syndicalist Congress. The Austrian Free Trade Unions Association was unable to raise the funds to send a representative and therefore adhered without actually being present. Additionally, the American Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) organizer George Swasey attended some of the sessions, though not as a delegate of his union. Cornelissen and the Russian anarcho-syndicalist Alexander Schapiro participated, but did not represent any organization. Alfred Rosmer of the CGT attended the congress as a correspondent for \"La Vie Ovrière\".\n\nOn September 27, the First International Syndicalist Congress commenced. Among the first questions discussed was to what extent educational and propaganda groups should be able to participate. The Germans advocated admitting only representatives of trade unions, while the Dutch thought all organizations advocating syndicalist ideas should be permitted to participate in the discussions and vote on all issues. Discussions yielded a compromise allowing non-trade union organizations to take part in debates, yet barring them from voting on issues which would entail financial obligations on the part of the unions. This essentially disenfranchised ISEL, the meeting's hosts.\nThe next issue at hand was the presidency. Fritz Kater of the Free Association of German Trade Unions, Jack Wills of the Bermondsey and Leicester Trades Councils, and Guy Bowman ran for the post. Kater and Wills were elected co-presidents. Bowman along with Cornelissen was chosen as congress secretary and as a translator, a task he did not take very seriously forcing Alexander Schapiro to help out.\n\nThe second day of the congress was opened by a speech by Kater. He explained that the two most important tasks of the congress should be drafting a declaration of principles and to deciding upon how international cooperation between syndicalist groups would continue. However, instead of tackling these issues, the congress then plunged into a lengthy discussion on Wills' co-presidency: it was revealed that Wills was a local councilor in a London borough. A number of delegates, particularly from France and Spain, argued that a politician could not preside over a meeting of syndicalists opposed to the state. The Dutch delegates, on the other hand, argued that Wills' political involvement was irrelevant, as long as he was a syndicalist on economic and labor questions. Wills, himself, claimed that he was not a politician, since a borough councilor's duties were strictly administrative, while insisting that he was a fervent opponent of parliamentary politics. The dispute unveiled two different interpretations of syndicalist rejection of politics: the one advanced by the French and Spanish held that participation in the parliamentary process is in itself a hindrance to class struggle; the Dutch on the other hand sought to unify all workers, no matter their political or religious beliefs. Finally, Wills agreed to resign in order to end the dispute and was replaced by Jack Tanner of the Hammersmith Engineers.\n\nEven after these issues were resolved, the congress did not turn its attention to the points raised by Kater. First, it discussed and condemned the police's treatment of Portuguese syndicalists and the British government's actions in the Dublin Lockout. Next, a series of national reports gave delegates the opportunity to learn about their allies' struggles in their respective countries. The most contentious of these reports were the two submitted by French unions. The first came from delegates, who were members of the CGT. They claimed that the French \"revolutionary organization preserved its purely revolutionary aspect and refused to accept the interference of Parliamentarians\" and remained \"a driving force against militarism, patriotism, the State, and capitalism, and anything which prevented the march of the movement\", even though the organization as a whole had decided to abstain from the London congress. A delegate representing several union that were not aligned with the CGT disagreed.\n\nIt was not until the fourth day that debate on the declaration of principles started. On the evening before, a resolution committee had discussed and revised a draft submitted by the Dutch. The committee's proposal was then debated by all delegates. The most controversial part of the draft was a sentence stating that \"the proletariat can only effectively influence the state by methods of direct action\". Opponents of this sentence held that the state should be ignored and that class struggle could only take place in the economic sphere. Its proponents, however, claimed that the proletariat lived under the political tyranny of the state just as it lived under the economic tyranny of capitalism and that neither could be ignored. De Ambris further complicated the discussion by calling for the phrase \"political and economic\" to be replaced by \"capitalist system\" throughout the text. The discussion on this question was prolonged and lively. It became a debate on the syndicalist rejection of statism. Support for De Ambris's position eventually ebbed and he gave in; the declaration that was finally unanimously accepted contained a number of references to the overthrow of the state.\n\nThis declaration rejected \"capitalist slavery and State oppression\", from which, \"the working class of every country suffers\". According to the document these wrongs, are \"a necessary result of private property in the means of production and distribution\". As a solution, the congress \"declares for the socialization of such property by constructing and developing our Trade Unions in such a way as to fit them for the administration of these means in the interest of the entire community.\" However, the syndicalists felt \"Trade Unions will only succeed when they cease to be divided by political and religious differences [and] by using Direct Action\".\n\nFinally, delegates discussed the equally contentious issue of future international cooperation. Both the German FVdG and the Italian USI drafted proposals. The Germans advocated the creation of an international Syndicalist Secretariat seated in Amsterdam and administered by the Dutch NAS. The Italian proposal called for no more than a committee to maintain relations between syndicalist organizations.\n\nAt first the advocates of a Syndicalist International dominated the discussion. However, even many of the proponents favored postponing the creation to another congress. As expected, De Ambris argued vehemently against a formal international organization, but many of his arguments were new. He estimated that such an organization would include no more than half a million workers, an insignificant figure compared to the membership of ISNTUC. However, an Argentine delegate claimed De Ambris's numbers were wrong, stating that from South American alone 600,000 would join a Syndicalist International. Much like the CGT in the run-up to the congress, De Ambris was now worried about deepening the schism within Europe's labor movement and thereby weakening it. He pointed to the CGT member unions at the meeting, saying they would be unable to go against their national and international affiliation, but would have no problems adhering to a committee of information. In his response, the German Karl Roche said that if the Italians were unwilling to join them, the Dutch and the Germans would start an international on their own. De Ambris sarcastically replied that he wanted to found an International as well, but without either the Germans or the Dutch.\nEventually, Fritz Kater withdrew the German proposal. It had become clear that, even among the proponents of an International, most preferred putting the founding off for the moment. The creation of the International Syndicalist Information Bureau, upon which all participants agreed, was decided as a compromise. The question where it would be seated was the next controversial issue. Both the German FVdG and the Dutch NAS proposed Amsterdam. Once again, De Ambris strongly disagreed. He felt Paris was a better location and suggested the hat makers' union as its administrators. Most delegates, however, felt the bureau could be seated neither in Paris, because of the CGT, nor in Berlin, the location of ISNTUC's headquarters, and therefore agreed on Amsterdam. Bitterly opposed to this idea, De Ambris, who had already been critical of the voting procedures, which gave each delegate one vote, from the start, proposed giving each nation one vote, but a vote - by delegate - rejected his proposal. Angrily, De Ambris withdrew from the congress. The rest of the delegates then agreed that the Bureau would be managed by the NAS in Amsterdam. Its role would be to facilitate the exchange of information between the national groups, to cultivate syndicalist solidarity, and to organize future congresses. It would publish the \"Bulletin international du mouvement syndicaliste\", thus far edited by Cornelissen, and draw its revenue from the subscriptions to this periodical. These decisions, except for the seat of the bureau, were made unanimously. Kater officially closed the congress calling for the remaining issues to be discussed at the next meeting to be held in Amsterdam.\n\nIn the end, only two out of the nine topics on the agenda, were discussed, the declaration of principles and the creation of an international body. Yet, all participants of the 1913 congress in London considered it a success, with the exception of Alceste De Ambris. He criticized the voting system and the choice for the Netherlands as the seat of the Information Bureau. The others unanimously applauded the congress's results. Christiaan Cornelissen was confident this was the first step to a new labor International. The German \"Die Einigkeit\" noted that the congress had accomplished the tasks set out in Fritz Kater's opening address. The Spanish delegate and Guy Bowman both viewed the meeting as a historic event. Many syndicalists viewed the formation of the Bureau as the congress's biggest accomplishment, some even claiming that there was no real difference between it and an International. The Argentine FORA called the Bureau a \"purely worker and antistatist\" International.\n\nReformists and French syndicalists were critical of the congress. The British Socialist Party's journal \"Justice\" labeled the declaration of principles \"a strange mixture of Socialism and Anarchism\", while the organ of the German Free Trade Unions claimed it \"contains nothing but trite phrases\". The congress itself, the German socialists declared, was \"unquestionably a complete fiasco\". Meanwhile, in his report for \"La Vie Ouvrière\", Alfred Rosmer said the declaration of principles lacked clarity, predicted only the Germans, Dutch, and Swedes would truly adhere to the Information Bureau, and predicted the congress would be harmful to syndicalism and the labor movement in general.\n\nIn early 1914, the Dutch group established a permanent committee for the International Syndicalist Information Bureau, which took over publishing \"Bulletin international du mouvement syndicaliste\", though Cornelissen continued to take care of most of the editorial duties. However, neither the Bureau nor the periodical lasted long. After World War I broke out in August 1914, both had to be terminated. After the war, the goal of a syndicalist International was realized. The International Working Men's Association (IWA), which exists to this day, was formed in 1923. Its founding congress in Berlin made reference to the 1913 First International Syndicalist Congress as its predecessor. The congress's declaration of principles was the classical expression of pre-war international syndicalism in the same way the Charter of Amiens was the classical expression of French syndicalism. It also expressed an evolution in syndicalist principles. Whereas the Charter made no reference to the state, the declaration explicitly condemned it, much like the post-war IWA did. Though all major British newspapers reported on the First International Syndicalist Congress, it has received little treatment since.\n\n"}
{"id": "19588196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19588196", "title": "Force structure", "text": "Force structure\n\nA force structure is the combat-capable part of a military organisation which describes how military personnel, and their weapons and equipment, are organised for the operations, missions and tasks expected from them by the particular doctrine of the service or demanded by the environment of the conflict. \n\nForce structuring considers the allocation of officers and other service men and women, their skills, and the relationship between their military units required to provide mutual support during military operations as a military capability of the armed forces in part or as a whole. The totality of the force structure committed to any given military operation, mission or task is called an order of battle. \n\nAnother important part of the force structure planning is how the command structure is organised within the order of battle will not reflect the force structure, but the forces command hierarchy and their relative deployment within the Theatre of Military Operations, during operational manoeuvre, or in the Tactical Area of Responsibility.\n\nThe adaptability of any force's force structure is usually tested in wartime to reflect changing nature of warfare, and therefore military doctrine, it usually entails for the participants. Force structure is also often shaped by forces of necessity when there is a lack of trained personnel, experience or appropriate equipment. David Glantz in his \"When Titans Clash\" provides an example of how the Red Army after three years of retreats, massive losses, steep learning curves, maturation and regaining the initiative identified this process of change in force structure by \"The 1944 Field Regulations of the Red Army\", or \"Ustav\", formalised their experiences of 1943, including the artillery and the air offensives for the ground forces. Importantly, the 1944 \"Ustav\" \"stressed the importance of maneuver, surprise, and initiative, three hallmarks of interwar German and Soviet theory\". This reflected a continuation of the a steady growth in mechanised force structure pursued by the Red Army since the 1930s, and when \"Khalkhin-Gol demonstrated the viability of Soviet theory and force structure\".\n\nCurrently changes in force structure can be caused not only by changes in forms of warfare and doctrine, but also rapid change in technology and budgetary considerations based on the wider national economy.\n"}
{"id": "11734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11734", "title": "Fred Singer", "text": "Fred Singer\n\nSiegfried Fred Singer (born September 27, 1924) is an Austrian-born American physicist and emeritus professor of environmental science at the University of Virginia. Singer trained as an atmospheric physicist and is known for his work in space research, atmospheric pollution, rocket and satellite technology, his questioning of the link between UV-B and melanoma rates, and that between chlorofluoro compounds and stratospheric ozone loss, his public downplaying of the health risks of passive smoking, and as an advocate for climate change denial. He is the author or editor of several books including \"Global Effects of Environmental Pollution\" (1970), \"The Ocean in Human Affairs\" (1989), \"Global Climate Change\" (1989), \"The Greenhouse Debate Continued\" (1992), and \"Hot Talk, Cold Science\" (1997). He has also co-authored \"\" (2007) with Dennis Avery, and \"Climate Change Reconsidered\" (2009) with Craig Idso.\n\nSinger has had a varied career, serving in the armed forces, government, and academia. He designed mines for the U.S. Navy during World War II, before obtaining his Ph.D. in physics from Princeton University in 1948 and working as a scientific liaison officer in the U.S. Embassy in London. He became a leading figure in early space research, was involved in the development of earth observation satellites, and in 1962 established the National Weather Bureau's Satellite Service Center. He was the founding dean of the University of Miami School of Environmental and Planetary Sciences in 1964, and held several government positions, including deputy assistant administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency, and chief scientist for the Department of Transportation. He held a professorship with the University of Virginia from 1971 until 1994, and with George Mason University until 2000.\n\nIn 1990 Singer founded the Science & Environmental Policy Project, and in 2006 was named by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as one of a minority of scientists said to be creating a stand-off on a consensus on climate change. Singer argues there is no evidence that global warming is attributable to human-caused increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide, and that humanity would benefit if temperatures do rise.\nHe is an opponent of the Kyoto Protocol, and has claimed that climate models are neither based on reality nor evidence. Singer has been accused of rejecting peer-reviewed and independently confirmed scientific evidence in his claims concerning public health and environmental issues.\n\nSinger was born in Vienna, Austria, to a Jewish family, where his father was a jeweler and his mother a homemaker. When the Nazis invaded, the family fled, Singer leaving on a children's transport train with other Jewish children. He ended up in England, where he lived in Northumberland, working for a time as a teenage optician. Several years later he emigrated to Ohio and became an American citizen in 1944. He received a B.E.E. in electrical engineering from Ohio State University in 1943, and an A.M. in physics from Princeton in 1944. He taught physics at Princeton while he worked on his masters and his doctorate, obtaining his Ph.D. there in 1948. His doctoral thesis was titled, \"\"The density spectrum and latitude dependence of extensive cosmic ray air showers\".\" His supervisor was John Archibald Wheeler, and his thesis committee included J. Robert Oppenheimer and Niels Bohr.\n\nAfter his masters, Singer joined the Armed Forces, working for the United States Navy on mine warfare and countermeasures from 1944 until 1946. While with the Naval Ordnance Laboratory he developed an arithmetic element for an electronic digital calculator that he called an \"electronic brain\". He was discharged in 1946 and joined the Upper Atmosphere Rocket Program at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Silver Spring, Maryland, working there until 1950. He focused on ozone, cosmic rays, and the ionosphere, all measured using balloons and rockets launched from White Sands, New Mexico, or from ships out at sea. Rachel White Scheuering writes that for one mission to launch a rocket, he sailed with a naval operation to the Arctic, and also conducted rocket launching from ships at the equator.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1953, he was attached to the U.S. Embassy in London as a scientific liaison officer with the Office of Naval Research, where he studied research programs in Europe into cosmic radiation and nuclear physics. While there, he was one of eight delegates with a background in guided weapons projects to address the Fourth International Congress of Astronautics in Zurich in August 1953, at a time when, as \"The New York Times\" reported, most scientists saw space flight as thinly disguised science fiction.\n\nSinger was one of the first scientists to urge the launching of earth satellites for scientific observation during the 1950s. In 1951 or 1952 he proposed the MOUSE (\"Minimal Orbital Unmanned Satellite, Earth\"), a satellite that would contain Geiger counters for measuring cosmic rays, photo cells for scanning the Earth, telemetry electronics for sending data back to Earth, a magnetic data storage device, and rudimentary solar energy cells. Although MOUSE never flew, the \"Baltimore News Post\" reported in 1957 that had Singer's arguments about the need for satellites been heeded, the U.S. could have beaten Russia by launching the first earth satellite. He also proposed (along with R. C. Wentworth) that satellite measurement of ultraviolet backscatter could be used as a method to measure atmospheric ozone profiles. This technique was later used on early weather satellites.\n\nSinger moved back to the United States in 1953, where he took up an associate professorship in physics at the University of Maryland, and at the same time served as the director of the Center for Atmospheric and Space Physics. Scheuering writes that his work involved conducting experiments on rockets and satellites, remote sensing, radiation belts, the magnetosphere, and meteorites. He developed a new method of launching rockets into space: firing them from a high-flying plane, both with and without a pilot. The Navy adopted the idea and Singer supervised the project. He received a White House Special Commendation from President Eisenhower in 1954 for his work.\n\nHe became one of 12 board members of the American Astronautical Society, an organization formed in 1954 to represent the country's 300 leading scientists and engineers in the area of guided missiles—he was one of seven members of the board to resign in December 1956 after a series of disputes about the direction and control of the group.\n\nIn November 1957 Singer and other scientists at the university successfully designed and fired three new \"Oriole\" rockets off the Virginia Capes. The rockets weighed less than and could be built for around $2000. Fired from a converted Navy LSM, they could reach an altitude of and had a complete telemetry system to send back information on cosmic, ultraviolet and X-rays. Singer said that the firings placed \"the exploration of outer space with high altitude rockets on the same basis, cost-wise and effort-wise, as low atmosphere measurements with weather balloons. From now on, we can fire thousands of these rockets all over the world with very little cost.\"\n\nIn February 1958, when he was head of the cosmic ray group of the University of Maryland's physics department, he was congratulated in a telegram to the president of the university from President Eisenhower for his work in satellite research. In April 1958, he was appointed as a consultant to the House Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration, which was preparing to hold hearings on President Eisenhower's proposal for a new agency to handle space research, and a month later received the Ohio State University's Distinguished Alumnus Award. He became a full professor at Maryland in 1959, and was chosen that year by the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce as one of the country's ten outstanding young men.\n\nIn a January 1960 presentation to the American Physical Society, Singer sketched out his vision of what the environment around the earth might consist of, extending up to into space. He became known for his early predictions about the properties of the electrical particles trapped around the earth, which were partly verified by later discoveries in satellite experiments. In December 1960, he suggested the existence of a shell of visible dust particles around the earth some 600 to in space, beyond which there was a layer of smaller particles, a micrometre or less in diameter, extending 2,000 to . In March 1961 Singer and another University of Maryland physicist, E. J. Opik, were given a $97,000 grant by NASA to conduct a three-year study of interplanetary gas and dust.\n\nIn a 1960 \"Astronautics\" newsletter, Singer commented on Iosif Shklovsky's hypothesis that the orbit of the Martian moon Phobos suggests that it is hollow, which implies it is of artificial origin. Singer wrote: \"My conclusion there is, and here I back Shklovsky, that if the satellite is indeed spiraling inward as deduced from astronomical observation, then there is little alternative to the hypothesis that it is hollow and therefore martian made. The big 'if' lies in the astronomical observations; they may well be in error. Since they are based on several independent sets of measurements taken decades apart by different observers with different instruments, systematic errors may have influenced them.\" Later measurements confirmed Singer's \"big \"if\"\" caveat: Shklovsky overestimated Phobos' rate of altitude loss due to bad early data. Photographs by probes beginning in 1972 show a natural stony surface with craters. Ufologists continue to present Singer as an unconditional supporter of Shklovsky's artificial Phobos hypothesis.\n\n\"Time\" magazine wrote in 1969 that Singer had had a lifelong fascination with Phobos and Mars's second moon, Deimos. He told \"Time\" it might be possible to pull Deimos into the Earth's orbit so it could be examined. During an international space symposium in May 1966, attended by space scientists from the United States and Soviet Union, he first proposed that manned landings on the Martian moons would be a logical step after a manned landing on the Earth's moon. He pointed out that the very small sizes of Phobos and Deimos—approximately and in diameter and sub milli-g surface gravity—would make it easier for a spacecraft to land and take off again.\n\nIn 1962, on leave from the university, Singer was named as the first director of meteorological satellite services for the National Weather Satellite Center, now part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and directed a program for using satellites to forecast the weather. He stayed there until 1964. He told \"Time\" magazine in 1969 that he enjoyed moving around. \"Each move gave me a completely new perspective,\" he said. \"If I had sat still, I'd probably still be measuring cosmic rays, the subject of my thesis at Princeton. That's what happens to most scientists.\" When he stepped down as director he received a Department of Commerce Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Federal Service.\n\nIn 1964, he became the first dean of the School of Environmental and Planetary Sciences at the University of Miami in 1964, the first school of its kind in the country, dedicated to space-age research. In December 1965, \"The New York Times\" reported on a conference Singer hosted in Miami Beach during which five groups of scientists, working independently, presented research identifying what they believed was the remains of a primordial flash that occurred when the universe was born.\n\nIn 1967 he accepted the position of deputy assistant secretary with the U.S. Department of the Interior, where he was in charge of water quality and research. When the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency was created on 1970, he became its deputy assistant administrator of policy.\n\nSinger accepted a professorship in Environmental Sciences at the University of Virginia in 1971, a position he held until 1994, where he taught classes on environmental issues such as ozone depletion, acid rain, climate change, population growth, and public policy issues related to oil and energy. In 1987 he took up a two-year post as chief scientist at the Department of Transportation, and in 1989 joined the Institute of Space Science and Technology in Gainesville, Florida where he contributed to a paper on the results from the Interplanetary Dust Experiment using data from the Long Duration Exposure Facility satellite. When he retired from Virginia in 1994, he became Distinguished Research Professor at the Institute for Humane Studies at George Mason University until 2000.\n\nNaomi Oreskes and Erik Conway say that Singer was involved in the Reagan administration's efforts to prevent regulatory action to reduce acid rain.\n\nSinger has worked as a consultant for several government agencies, including the House Select Committee on Space, NASA, the Government Accountability Office, the National Science Foundation, the United States Atomic Energy Commission, National Research Council, the Department of Defense Strategic Defense Initiative, Department of Energy Nuclear Waste Panel, and the Department of the Treasury. Other clients have included the states of Virginia, Alaska, and Pennsylvania. In the private sector he has worked for Mitre Corporation, General Electric, Ford, General Motors; during the late 1970s Singer consulted with Exxon, Shell, Unocal Sun Oil, and ARCO; and Lockheed Martin, Martin–Marietta, McDonnell Douglas, ANSER, and IBM on space research. He has also advised the Independent Institute, the American Council on Science and Health, and Frontiers of Freedom.\n\nThroughout his academic career Singer has written frequently in the mainstream press, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"Wall Street Journal\", often striking up positions disputing mainstream thinking. His overall position is one of distrust of federal regulations and a strong belief in the efficacy of the free market. He believes in what Rachel White Scheuering calls \"free market environmentalism\": that market principles and incentives should be sufficient to lead to the protection of the environment and conservation of resources. Regular themes in his articles have been energy, oil embargoes, OPEC, Iran, and rising prices. Throughout the 1970s, for example, he downplayed the idea of an energy crisis and said it was largely a media event. In several papers in the 1990s and 2000s he struck up other positions against the mainstream, questioning the link between UV-B and melanoma rates, and that between CFCs and stratospheric ozone loss.\n\nIn October 1967, Singer wrote an article for \"The Washington Post\" from the perspective of 2007. His predictions included that planets had been explored but not colonized, and although rockets had become more powerful they had not replaced aircraft and ramjet vehicles. None of the fundamental laws of physics had been overturned. There was increased reliance on the electronic computer and data processor; the most exciting development was the increase in human intellect by direct electronic storage of information in the brain—the coupling of the brain to an external computer, thereby gaining direct access to an information library.\n\nHe debated the astronomer Carl Sagan on ABC's \"Nightline\", Sagan arguing that, if enough fire-fighting teams were not assembled in short order, and if many fires were left to burn over a period of months to possibly a year, the smoke might loft into the upper atmosphere and lead to massive agricultural failures over South Asia. Singer argued that it would rise to then be rained out after a few days. In fact, both Sagan and Singer were incorrect; smoke plumes from the oil fires rose to 10,000–12,000 feet and lingered for nearly a month, but despite absorbing 75–80% of the sun's radiation in the Persian Gulf area the plumes had little global effect.\n\nThe public debates in which Singer has received most criticism have been about second-hand smoke and global warming. He has questioned the link between second-hand smoke and lung cancer, and has been an outspoken opponent of the mainstream scientific view on climate change; he argues there is no evidence that increases in carbon dioxide produced by human beings is causing global warming and that the temperature of the earth has always varied. A CBC \"Fifth Estate\" documentary in 2006 linked these two debates, naming Singer as a scientist who has acted as a consultant to industry in both areas, either directly or through a public relations firm. Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway named Singer in their book, \"Merchants of Doubt\", as one of three contrarian physicists—along with Fred Seitz and Bill Nierenberg—who regularly injected themselves into the public debate about contentious scientific issues, positioning themselves as skeptics, their views gaining traction because the media gives them equal time out of a sense of fairness.\n\nAccording to David Biello and John Pavlus in \"Scientific American\", Singer is best known for his denial of the health risks of passive smoking. He was involved in 1994 as writer and reviewer of a report on the issue by the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution, where he was a senior fellow. The report criticized the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for their 1993 study about the cancer risks of passive smoking, calling it \"junk science\". Singer told CBC's \"The Fifth Estate\" in 2006 that he stood by the position that the EPA had \"cooked the data\" to show that second-hand smoke causes lung cancer. CBC said that tobacco money had paid for Singer's research and for his promotion of it, and that it was organized by APCO. Singer told CBC it made no difference where the money came from. \"They don't carry a note on a dollar bill saying 'This comes from the tobacco industry,'\" he said. \"In any case I was not aware of it, and I didn't ask APCO where they get their money. That's not my business.\" In December 2010 he wrote in \"American Thinker\" that he is nonsmoker who finds second-hand smoke an unpleasant irritant that cannot be healthy; he also wrote that his father, a heavy smoker, died of emphysema when relatively young. According to Singer, he serves on the advisory board of an anti-smoking organization, and has never been paid by Philip Morris or the tobacco lobby.\n\nIn a 2003 letter to the \"Financial Times\", Singer wrote that \"there is no convincing evidence that the global climate is actually warming.\" In 2006, the CBC's \"Fifth Estate\" named Singer as one of a small group of scientists who have created what the documentary called a stand-off that is undermining the political response to global warming. The following year he appeared on the British Channel 4 documentary \"The Great Global Warming Swindle\". Singer argues there is no evidence that the increases in carbon dioxide produced by humans cause global warming, and that if temperatures do rise it will be good for humankind. He told CBC: \"It was warmer a thousand years ago than it is today. Vikings settled Greenland. Is that good or bad? I think it's good. They grew wine in England, in northern England. I think that's good. At least some people think so.\" \"We are certainly putting more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,\" he told \"The Daily Telegraph\" in 2009. \"However there is no evidence that this high CO is making a detectable difference. It should in principle, however the atmosphere is very complicated and one cannot simply argue that just because CO is a greenhouse gas it causes warming.\" He believes that radical environmentalists are exaggerating the dangers. \"The underlying effort here seems to be to use global warming as an excuse to cut down the use of energy,\" he said. \"It's very simple: if you cut back the use of energy, then you cut back economic growth. And believe it or not, there are people in the world who believe we have gone too far in economic growth.\"\n\nSingers's opinions conflict with the scientific opinion on climate change, where there is overwhelming consensus for anthropogenic global warming, and a decisive link between carbon dioxide concentration and global average temperatures, as well as consensus that such a change to the climate will have dangerous consequences. In 2005 Mother Jones magazine described Singer as a \"godfather of global warming denial.\" However, Singer characterizes himself as a \"skeptic\" rather than a \"denier\" of global climate change. In an article in \"American Thinker\", he complains about bad arguments used by the \"deniers,\" saying that \"Climate deniers are giving us skeptics a bad name.\"\n\nIn 1990 Singer set up the Science & Environmental Policy Project (SEPP) to argue against preventive measures against global warming. After the 1991 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Earth Summit, Singer started writing and speaking out to cast doubt on the science. He predicted disastrous economic damage from any restrictions on fossil fuel use, and argued that the natural world and its weather patterns are complex and ill-understood, and that little is known about the dynamics of heat exchange from the oceans to the atmosphere, or the role of clouds. As the scientific consensus grew, he continued to argue from a skeptical position. He has repeatedly criticized the climate models that predict global warming. In 1994 he compared model results to observed temperatures and found that the predicted temperatures for 1950–1980 deviated from the temperatures that had actually occurred, from which he concluded in his regular column in \"The Washington Times\"—with the headline that day \"Climate Claims Wither under the Luminous Lights of Science\"—that climate models are faulty. In 2007 he collaborated on a study that found tropospheric temperature trends of \"Climate of the 20th Century\" models differed from satellite observations by twice the model mean uncertainty.\n\nRachel White Scheuering writes that, when SEPP began, it was affiliated with the Washington Institute for Values in Public Policy, a think tank founded by Unification Church leader Sun Myung Moon. A 1990 article for the Cato Institute identifies Singer as the director of the science and environmental policy project at the Washington Institute for Values in Public Policy, on leave from the University of Virginia. Scheuering writes that Singer had cut ties with the institute, and is funded by foundations and oil companies. She writes that he has been a paid consultant for many years for ARCO, ExxonMobil, Shell, Sun Oil Company, and Unocal, and that SEPP has received grants from ExxonMobil. Singer has said his financial relationships do not influence his research. Scheuering argues that his conclusions concur with the economic interests of the companies that pay him, in that the companies want to see a reduction in environmental regulation.\n\nIn August 2007 \"Newsweek\" reported that in April 1998 a dozen people from what it called \"the denial machine\" met at the American Petroleum Institute's Washington headquarters. The meeting included Singer's group, the George C. Marshall Institute, and ExxonMobil. Newsweek said that, according to an eight-page memo that was leaked, the meeting proposed a $5-million campaign to convince the public that the science of global warming was controversial and uncertain. The plan was leaked to the press and never implemented. The week after the story, \"Newsweek\" published a contrary view from Robert Samuelson, one of its columnists, who said the story of an industry-funded denial machine was contrived and fundamentally misleading. ABC News reported in March 2008 that Singer said he is not on the payroll of the energy industry, but he acknowledged that SEPP had received one unsolicited charitable donation of $10,000 from ExxonMobil, and that it was one percent of all donations received. Singer said that his connection to Exxon was more like being on their mailing list than holding a paid position. The relationships have discredited Singer's research among members of the scientific community, according to Scheuering. Congresswoman Lynn Rivers questioned Singer's credibility during a congressional hearing in 1995, saying he had not been able to publish anything in a peer-reviewed scientific journal for the previous 15 years, except for one technical comment.\n\nIn 1995 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) issued a report reflecting the scientific consensus that the balance of evidence suggests there is a discernible human influence on global climate. Singer responded with a letter to \"Science\" saying the IPCC report had presented material selectively. He wrote: \"the Summary does not even mention the existence of 18 years of weather satellite data that show a slight global cooling trend, contradicting all theoretical models of climate warming.\" Scheuering writes that Singer acknowledges the surface thermometers from weather stations show warming, but he argues that the satellites provide better data because their measurements cover pole to pole.\nAccording to Edward Parson and Andrew Dessler, the satellite data did not show surface temperatures directly, but had to be adjusted using models. When adjustment was made for transient events the data showed a slight warming, and research suggested that the discrepancy between surface and satellite data was largely accounted for by problems such as instrument differences between satellites.\n\nSinger wrote the \"Leipzig Declaration on Global Climate Change in the U.S.\" in 1995, updating it in 1997 to rebut the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol was the result of an international convention held in Kyoto, Japan, during which several industrialized nations agreed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Singer's declaration read: \"Energy is essential for economic growth ... We understand the motivation to eliminate what are perceived to be the driving forces behind a potential climate change; but we believe the Kyoto Protocol—to curtail carbon dioxide emissions from only a part of the world community—is dangerously simplistic, quite ineffective, and economically destructive to jobs and standards-of-living.\"\n\nScheuering writes that Singer circulated this in the United States and Europe and gathered 100 signatories, though she says some of the signatories' credentials were questioned. At least 20 were television weather reporters, some did not have science degrees, and 14 were listed as professors without specifying a field. According to Scheuering, some of them later said they believed they were signing a document in favour of action against climate change.\n\nSinger set up the Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC) after a 2004 United Nations climate conference in Milan. NIPCC organized an international climate workshop in Vienna in April 2007, to provide what they called an independent examination of the evidence for climate change. Singer prepared an NIPCC report called \"Nature, Not Human Activity, Rules the Climate,\" published in March 2008 by The Heartland Institute, a conservative think tank. ABC News said the same month that unnamed climate scientists from NASA, Stanford, and Princeton who spoke to ABC about the report dismissed it as \"fabricated nonsense\". In a letter of complaint to ABC News, Singer said their piece used \"prejudicial language, distorted facts, libelous insinuations, and anonymous smears\".\n\nOn September 18, 2013, the NIPCC's fourth report, entitled \"Climate Change Reconsidered II: Physical Science,\" was published. As with previous NIPCC reports, environmentalists criticized it upon its publication; for example, David Suzuki wrote that it was \"full of long-discredited claims, including that carbon dioxide emissions are good because they stimulate life\". After the report received favorable coverage from Fox News Channel's Doug McKelway, climate scientists Kevin Trenberth and Michael Oppenheimer criticized this coverage, with Trenberth calling it \"irresponsible journalism\" and Oppenheimer calling it \"flat out wrong\".\n\nIn December 2009, after the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, Singer wrote an opinion piece for Reuters in which he said the scientists had misused peer review, pressured editors to prevent publication of alternative views, and smeared opponents. He said the leaked e-mails showed that the \"surface temperature data that IPCC relies on is based on distorted raw data and algorithms that they will not share with the science community.\" He argued that the incident exposed a flawed process, and that the temperature trends were heading downwards even as greenhouse gases like CO were increasing in the atmosphere. He wrote: \"This negative correlation contradicts the results of the models that IPCC relies on and indicates that anthropogenic global warming (AGW) is quite small,\" concluding \"and now it turns out that global warming might have been 'man made' after all.\" A British House of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee later issued a report that exonerated the scientists, \nand eight committees investigated the allegations, finding no evidence of fraud or scientific misconduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "3058238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3058238", "title": "Frederick II, Elector of Saxony", "text": "Frederick II, Elector of Saxony\n\nFrederick II, The Gentle (\"Friedrich, der Sanftmütige\"; Frederick the Gentle) (22 August 1412 in Leipzig – 7 September 1464 in Leipzig) was Elector of Saxony (1428–1464) and was Landgrave of Thuringia (1440–1445).\n\nFrederick was the eldest of the seven children of Frederick I, Elector of Saxony, and Catherine of Brunswick and Lunenburg.\n\nAfter the death of his father in 1428 he took over the government together with his younger brothers William III, Henry and Sigismund. In 1433 the Wettins finally concluded peace with the Hussites and in 1438 Frederick led Saxon forces to victory in the Battle of Sellnitz. That same year it was considered the first federal state parliament of Saxony. The parliament received the right to find together in case of innovations in fiscal matters also without summoning by the ruler.\n\nAfter Henry's death in 1435, and Sigismund was forced to renounce and became a bishop in (1440), Frederick and William divided their possessions. In the Division of Altenburg in 1445, William III received the Thuringian and Frankish part, and Frederick got the Eastern part of the principality. The mines remained common possessions. Disputes over the distribution led however in 1446 to the Saxon Brother War, which found an end only on 27 January 1451 with the peace of Naumburg. In the Treaty of Eger in (1459), elector Frederick, Duke William III and the king of Bohemia George of Podebrady fixed the borders between Bohemia and Saxony, at the height of the Ore Mountains () and the middle of the Elbe which still holds today. It belongs therefore to the oldest still existing borders of Europe.\n\nAfter the death of Frederick, both of his sons, Ernest and Albert, first took over the government together. After Duke William III died in 1482, Thuringia returned to Frederick's line.\n\nIn Leipzig on 3 June 1431 Frederick married Margaret of Austria, the daughter of Ernest of Austria and Cymburgis of Masovia. They had eight children:\n\n"}
{"id": "10455595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10455595", "title": "Honours of Winston Churchill", "text": "Honours of Winston Churchill\n\nSir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, KG, OM, CH, TD, PC, DL, FRS, RA received numerous honours and awards throughout his career as a British Army officer, statesman and author.\n\nPerhaps the highest of these was the state funeral held at St Paul's Cathedral, after his body had lain in state for three days in Westminster Hall, an honour rarely granted to anyone other than a British monarch or consort. The funeral also saw one of the largest assemblages of statesmen in the world.\n\nThroughout his life, Churchill also accumulated other honours and awards. He was awarded 37 other orders and medals between 1885 and 1964. Of the orders, decorations and medals Churchill received, 20 were awarded by the United Kingdom, three by France, two each by Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg and Spain, and one each by the Czech Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Libya, Nepal, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United States. Ten were awarded for active service as an Army officer in Cuba, India, Egypt, South Africa, the United Kingdom, France, and Belgium. The greater number of awards were given in recognition of his service as a minister of the British government.\n\nChurchill was not a peer, never held a title of nobility, and remained a commoner all his life. As the grandson of 7th Duke of Marlborough, he bore the quartered coat of arms of the Spencer and Churchill families. Paul Courtenay observes that \"It would be normal in these circumstances for the paternal arms (Spencer) to take precedence over the maternal (Churchill), but because the Marlborough dukedom was senior to the Sunderland earldom, the procedure was reversed in this case.\" In 1817 an augmentation of honour was granted commemorating the victory of Blenheim by the 1st Duke.\n\nAs Churchill's father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was the surviving second son of the 7th Duke of Marlborough, his arms should have been differenced, by strict heraldic rules, with a mark of cadency. Traditionally, this would have been a heraldic crescent. Those differenced arms would have been inherited by Winston Churchill. This never seems to have been used by Lord Randolph or Winston. As arms are used to differentiate two bearers, there doesn't seem to have been any confusion between Churchill's arms as a gentleman with many decorations and later Knight of the Garter, those of his brother as a plain gentleman, and his cousin, the Duke of Marlborough, which were adorned with the insignia of a duke. As a Knight of the Garter, Churchill was also entitled to supporters in his achievement. But, he never seems to have got around to applying for them.\n\nThe resulting heraldic achievement is: \"quarterly 1st and 4th, Sable a lion rampant Argent on a canton of the second a cross Gules (Churchill); 2nd and 3rd, quarterly Argent and Gules, in the second and third quarters a fret Or, over all on a bend Sable three escallops of the first (Spencer); in chief, on an escutcheon Argent a cross Gules surmounted by an inescutcheon Azure charged with three fleurs-de-lys Or\".\n\nWhen he became a Knight of the Garter in 1953, his arms were encircled by the garter of the order, and at the same time the helms was made open, which is the mark of a knight. His motto was that of the Dukes of Marlborough, \"Fiel pero desdichado\" (Spanish for \"Faithful but unfortunate\").\n\nOn 9 April 1963, United States President John F. Kennedy, acting under authorization granted by an Act of Congress, proclaimed Churchill the first honorary citizen of the United States. Churchill was physically incapable of attending the White House ceremony, so his son and grandson accepted the award for him.\n\nIn 1955, after retiring as Prime Minister, Churchill was offered elevation to the peerage in the rank of duke. By custom, Prime Ministers retiring from the Commons were usually offered earldoms, so the dukedom was a sign of special honour. One title that was considered was \"Duke of London\", a city whose name had never been used in a peerage title. Churchill had represented divisions of three different counties in Parliament, and his home, Chartwell, was in a fourth, so the city in which he had spent most of his time during fifty years in politics was seen as a suitable choice. Since 1900, only members of the British royal family have been made dukes, so the offer was exceptional.\n\nChurchill considered accepting the offer of a dukedom but eventually declined it; the lifestyle of a duke would have been expensive, and accepting any peerage might have cut short a renewed career in the Commons for his son Randolph and in due course might also prevent one for his grandson Winston. (At the time there was no procedure for disclaiming a title; the procedure was first established by the Peerage Act 1963. Upon inheriting a peerage, either Randolph or Winston would immediately be unseated from the House of Commons.) In the event, Randolph never sat in Parliament after losing his first and only seat there in 1945 and indeed was to die only three years after his father, so the dukedom would have had no effect on his career. Randolph's oldest son Winston did serve in the Commons from 1970 until 1997, but by that time provision existed for disclaiming a hereditary peerage.\n\nIn 1913, Churchill was appointed an \"Elder Brother\" of Trinity House as result of his appointment as First Lord of the Admiralty.\n\nOn 4 April 1939, Churchill was made an Honorary Air Commodore of No. 615 (County of Surrey) Squadron (\"Churchill's Own\") in the Auxiliary Air Force. In March 1943, the Air Council awarded Churchill honorary wings. He retained the appointment until 11 March 1957 when 615 Squadron was disbanded. He did however continue to hold the rank of Honorary Air Commodore. He frequently wore his uniform as an Air Commodore during World War II.\n\nHe was the Colonel in Chief of the 4th Queen's Own Hussars (his old regiment) and after its amalgamation, the first Colonel in Chief of the Queen's Royal Irish Hussars which he held until his death in 1965. He was also Colonel in Chief of the Queen's Own Oxfordshire Hussars.\n\nFrom 1941 to his death, he was the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports, a ceremonial office. In 1941 Canadian Governor General Alexander Cambridge, Earl of Athlone, swore him into the King's Privy Council for Canada. Although this allowed him to use the honorific title \"The Honourable\" and the post-nominal letters \"PC\", both of these were trumped by his membership in the Imperial Privy Council which allowed him the use of \"The Right Honourable\". He was also appointed Grand Seigneur of the Hudson's Bay Company in December 1955.\n\nIn 1945, he was mentioned by Halvdan Koht among seven candidates that were qualified for the Nobel Peace Prize. However, he did not explicitly nominate any of them. Actually he nominated Cordell Hull.\n\nChurchill held the office of Deputy Lieutenant (DL) of Kent in 1949.\n\nIn 1953, he was awarded two major honours: he was invested as a Knight of the Garter (becoming Sir Winston Churchill, KG) and he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature \"\"for his mastery of historical and biographical description as well as for brilliant oratory in defending exalted human values\".\"\n\nHe was Chancellor of the University of Bristol as well as in 1959, \"Father of the House\", the MP with the longest continuous service.\n\nIn 1956, Churchill received the Karlspreis (known in English as the Charlemagne Award), an award by the German city of Aachen to those who most contribute to the European idea, and European peace.\n\nIn 1961 the Chartered Institute of Building named Churchill as an Honorary Fellow for his services and passion for the construction industry.\n\nIn 1964, Civitan International presented Churchill its first World Citizenship Award for service to the world community.\n\nChurchill was also appointed a Kentucky Colonel.\n\nWhen Churchill was 88 he was asked by the Duke of Edinburgh how he would like to be remembered. He replied with a scholarship like the Rhodes scholarship but for the wider masses. After his death, the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust was established in the United Kingdom and Australia. A Churchill Trust Memorial Day was held in Australia, raising A$4.3 million. Since that time the Churchill Trust in Australia has supported over 3,000 scholarship recipients in a diverse variety of fields, where merit, either on the basis of past experience, or potential, and the propensity to contribute to the community have been the only criteria.\n\nThe Winston Churchill Range in the Canadian Rockies was named in his honour.\n\nOne of four specially made sets of false teeth, designed to retain Churchill's distinctive style of speech, which Churchill wore throughout his life, is now kept in the Hunterian Museum at the Royal College of Surgeons of England.\n\nTwo Royal Navy warships have been named HMS \"Churchill\": the destroyer (I45) (1940–1944) and the submarine (1970–1991).\n\nOn 10 March 2001, the \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer was commissioned into the United States Navy. The launch and christening of the ship two years earlier was co-sponsored by Churchill's daughter, Lady Soames.\n\nIn addition, the Danish DFDS line named a car ferry \"Winston Churchill\" and The Corporation of Trinity House named one of their lighthouse tenders similarly. A sail training ship was named \"Sir Winston Churchill\".\n\nIn September 1947, the Southern Railway named a Battle of Britain class steam locomotive No. 21C151 after him. Churchill was offered the opportunity to perform the naming ceremony, but he declined. The locomotive was later used to pull his funeral train, and is now preserved in the National Railway Museum, York.\n\nHe appeared on the 1965 crown, the first commoner to be placed on a British coin. He made another appearance on a crown issued in 2010 to honour the 70th anniversary of his Premiership.\n\nPol Roger's prestige cuvée Champagne, \"Cuvée Sir Winston Churchill\", is named after him. The first vintage, 1975, was launched in 1984 at Blenheim Palace. The name was accepted by his heirs as Churchill was a faithful customer of Pol Roger. Following Churchill's death in 1965, Pol Roger added a black border to the label on bottles shipped to the UK as a sign of mourning. This was not lifted until 1990.\n\nThe Churchill tank, or Infantry Tank Mk IV; was a British Second World War tank named after Churchill, who was Prime Minister at the time of its design.\n\nThe \"Julieta\" (7\" × 47), a size of cigar, is also commonly known as a Churchill.\n\nThe Churchill Park (Danish: Churchillparken) located in central Copenhagen, Denmark, is name after Churchill in commemoration of Churchill and the British help to Denmark in the liberation of Denmark during World War II.\n\nChurchill has been included in numerous polls, mostly connected with greatness. \"Time\" named him its Man of the Year for 1940, and \"Man of the Half-Century\" in 1949. A BBC survey, of January 2000, saw Churchill voted the greatest British prime minister of the 20th century. In 2002, BBC TV viewers and web site users voted him the greatest Briton of all time in a ten-part series called Great Britons, a poll attracting almost two million votes.\n\nMany statues have been created in likeness and in honour of Churchill. Numerous buildings and squares have also been named in his honour. The most prominent example of a statue of Churchill is the official statue commissioned by the government and created by Ivor Roberts-Jones which now stands in Parliament Square. It was unveiled by Churchill's widow, Lady Churchill, on 1 November 1973, and was Grade II listed in 2008. Another Roberts-Jones statue of Churchill displaying the V sign is prominently placed in New Orleans (1977). In addition several other statues have also been made, including a bronze bust of Winston Churchill by Jacob Epstein (1947), several statues by David McFall at Woodford (1959), William McVey outside the British embassy in Washington, D.C. (1966), Franta Belsky at Fulton, Missouri (1969), at least three from Oscar Nemon: one on the front lawn of the Halifax Public Library branch on Spring Garden Road, Halifax, Nova Scotia (1980); one in the British House of Commons (1969); a bust of his head along with that of Franklin Roosevelt commemorating the Quebec Conference, 1943 next to Port St. Louis in Quebec City (1998); and one in Nathan Phillips Square outside of Toronto City Hall (1977), and Jean Cardot beside the Petit Palais in Paris (1998). A statue of Churchill and Roosevelt, sculpted by Lawrence Holofcener is located in New Bond Street, London.\n\nAfter Churchill was declared the greatest Briton of all time in the BBC poll and television series Great Britons (see above), a statue was erected in his honour and now stands at the BBC television studios. Churchill is also memorialised by many statues and a public square in New York, in recognition of his life, and also because his mother was from New York. His maternal family is also memorialised in streets, parks, and neighbourhoods throughout the city.\n\nThe national and Commonwealth memorial to Churchill is Churchill College, Cambridge, which was founded in 1958 and opened in 1960. It is also home to the Churchill Archives Centre, which holds the papers of Sir Winston Churchill and over 570 collections of personal papers and archives documenting the history of the Churchill era and after.\n\nMany schools have been named after him:\n\nTen schools in Canada are named in his honour: one each in Vancouver, Winnipeg, Thunder Bay, Hamilton, Kingston, St. Catharines, Lethbridge, Calgary, Toronto (Scarborough) and Ottawa. Churchill Auditorium at the Technion is named after him.\n\nAt least four American high schools carry his name; these are located in Potomac, Maryland; Livonia, Michigan; Eugene, Oregon and San Antonio, Texas.\n\nIn London, Churchill Place is one of the main squares in Canary Wharf. Winston Churchill Avenue is a major road in Portsmouth. Basingstoke and Salford both have roads called Churchill Way.\nThe city of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada has a stop on the Edmonton LRT system and a public square named in his honour. Churchill Square, is the main square in that city and was renovated in 2004 for the city's 100th anniversary of incorporation. There are several other squares named after him, including one in Brighton, England and one in Newfoundland. The south end of Churchill Avenue in Ottawa was the site of the Churchill Arms Motor Hotel, which many residents of Ottawa remember for its three-storey exterior painting of the silhouette of Winston Churchill. Churchill Avenue was itself renamed from Main Street after the Second World War. In St. Albert, Alberta Sir Winston Churchill Ave runs east to west through the city. Winston Churchill Boulevard in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada is also named in his honour.\n\nChurchill National Park in Australia which was established on 12 February 1941 as the Dandenong National Park, was renamed in 1944 in his honour. The town of Churchill, Victoria, Churchill Island and Churchill Island Marine National Park in Victoria, Australia were also named after him.\n\nIn Canada, Sir Winston Churchill Provincial Park, Churchill Park, St. John's and Churchill Lake in Saskatchewan were all named after him.\n\nA large dock in the Port of Antwerp was named after him by Queen Elizabeth II at a ceremony in 1966.\n\nNáměstí W. Churchilla (Winston Churchill Square) is located behind The Main Train Station in Prague, Czech Republic.\n\nIn Gibraltar the main road connecting the border with Spain and the airport to the city centre is called Winston Churchill Avenue.\n\nChurchillparken in Copenhagen, Denmark; Churchill Park, Glendowie, New Zealand; Churchill Park (Lautoka), Fiji; and Energlyn and Churchill Park railway station in Wales are some other parks named in his honour.\n\nIn Norway streets in the cities of Trondheim and Tromsø are named in Winston Churchill's honour. Namely \"Churchills vei\" in Jakobsli, Trondheim and \"Winston Churchills vei\" in Tromsø.\n\nThe Churchill occupying an entire block in New York City's Midtown Manhattan neighborhood is a residential building named after him, and features his portrait in the lobby and rooftop pool (rare for NYC residences). Many smaller, less significant streets and public buildings, particularly in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand have been named in honour of Churchill.\n\n\n\n\n\n(Although some references report Churchill was awarded the French Legion of Honour, it is not listed among his honours at the Churchill Centre. However, it is significant that Churchill received the Médaille militaire, which is only awarded (for high leadership) to holders of the Legion's Grand Cross). The Listing of Foreign recipients of the Legion of Honour reports Churchill as \"Sir Winston Churchill, Grand-croix de la Légion d'honneur (1958);\" (The Grand-croix being awarded to Foreign Heads of state).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChurchill received a worldwide total of 42 Freedoms of cities and towns, in his lifetime a record for a lifelong British citizen.\n"}
{"id": "15819483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15819483", "title": "Héctor Fix-Zamudio", "text": "Héctor Fix-Zamudio\n\nHéctor Fix-Zamudio (born 4 September 1924 in Mexico City) is a Mexican jurist.\nFix-Zamudio studied law at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), earning his bachelor's degree in 1956 and his doctorate (magna cum laude) in 1972. From 1945 to 1964 he held various positions within the Mexican judiciary, culminating with a position as clerk to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. In 1964 he accepted a full-time research position at the UNAM's Legal Research Institute \"(Instituto de Investigaciones Jurídicas)\", then known as the Institute of Comparative Law \"(Instituto de Derecho Comparado)\". He also served as the Institute's director from 1966 to 1978. In 1981 he was elected to the UNAM's Governing Board \"(Junta de Gobierno)\", serving until 1988.\n\nIn 1974 he was chosen as the first president of the Ibero-American Constitutional Law Institute, a position he held until 2002 when he was named honorary president. He was elected to serve as a judge on the Inter-American Court of Human Rights from 1987 to 1997, including two terms as its president. He served on the United Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities from 1998 to 2001. He has been a member of the Consultative Council of the National Human Rights Commission since 1998.\n\nOn 23 October 1974 he was elected to the Colegio Nacional. The awards he has won include the National Prize for History, Social Science and Philosophy (1982), the National Jurisprudence Prize, awarded in 1994 by the Mexican Bar Association (1994), and the Senate's Belisario Domínguez Medal of Honour in 2002. \nIn 1986 he was awarded the UNESCO Prize for Human Rights Education, and he later served on the jury for that prize for four years from 1988 to 1991. \n\nIn recognition of his work in the field, the UNAM's Legal Research Institute currently awards the annual Héctor Fix-Zamudio International Prize for Legal Research.\n\nFix-Zamudio has published 20 books on legal topics, including amparo, constitutional law and human rights. \n\n"}
{"id": "3250753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3250753", "title": "Inter-American Defense Board", "text": "Inter-American Defense Board\n\nThe Inter-American Defense Board (IADB) is an international committee of nationally appointed defense officials who develop collaborative approaches on common defense and security issues facing countries in North, Central, and South America. The IADB provides technical advice and services to the Organization of American States (OAS). \n\nThe IADB was created in 1942 by foreign ministers of 21 states, in the middle of World War II. It is now the oldest existing defense organization in the world.\n\nIn March 2006, the OAS assumed formal authority over the IADB. As of that date, 27 of the 34 members of OAS were also members of the IADB.\n\nThe Board is made up of three main organs, one of which is the Inter-American Defense College (IADC). The IADC offers an eleven-month Master of Science for senior military, police and government officials that covers governmental systems, the current international environment, and the structure and function of the Inter-American system, and offers an opportunity to study broad-based defense and security issues affecting the Western Hemisphere and the world.\n\nofficial website\n\nThe Inter-American Defense Board Medal is an international military decoration. It is awarded to any military officer, serving in a member nation of the OAS, who completes a tour of service with the IADB. The award is also presented to military personnel who serve on the staff of the IADB Chairman or Secretariat, and for those who complete instructor tours at the IADC.\n\n"}
{"id": "53198655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53198655", "title": "Intersex rights in Colombia", "text": "Intersex rights in Colombia\n\nIn 1999, the Constitutional Court of Colombia became the first court to consider the human rights implications of medical interventions to alter the sex characteristics of intersex children. The Court restricted the age at which intersex children could be the subjects of surgical interventions.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Colombia was the first court to consider the human rights implications of intersex medical interventions, in a case that restricted the age at which intersex children could be the subjects of surgical interventions.\n\nIn April 2018, Latin American and Caribbean intersex activists published the San José de Costa Rica statement, defining local demands.\n\nColombia does not prohibit harmful practices on children, but they are regulated through a series of decisions made by the Constitutional Court of Colombia relating to the bodily autonomy of infants and children, including those with intersex conditions.\n\nIn Sentencia T-477/95, the Court considered the case of YY, a non-intersex teenage boy who had been raised a girl after an accidental castration and subsequent feminizing genital surgeries. He took the case after learning of his medical history. The Court ruled that the teenager’s right to identity had been violated, and that the sex of a child could not be altered without the child’s informed consent.\n\nIn Sentencia SU-337/99, of May 12, 1999, the Court varied the earlier decision on informed consent for genital surgeries in children. The Court ruled in the case of XX, an 8-year old with ambiguous genitalia, androgen insensitivity and XY chromosomes, raised as a girl. Doctors recommended feminizing surgeries, including a gonadectomy, vaginoplasty and clitoroplasty before puberty, but the hospital would not proceed without the consent of the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare and the Office of the Public Advocate (Defensor del Pueblo de la Seccional del Departamento XX). The mother brought a case against Institute and Office of the Public Advocate, seeking to provide substitute consent. The mother argued that “the capacity to decide, it would be too late and would prevent normal psychological, physical, and social development”.\n\nThe Court refused the mother’s claim. It questioned the urgency of the case, argued by medical teams. Civil rights advocates and a minority of doctors favored deferring treatment due to lack of evidence and the irreversible nature of the proposed interventions. The Court observed that advocates of surgery were more numerous than opponents, alternatives to surgery were not entirely feasible, and surgeries had improved, “making it less likely that sexual sensitivity would be destroyed; and the medical community was improving communication with parents”. However, some doctors refused to respond to criticisms of surgery, while some others questioned their surgical approach.\n\nThe Court determined that a constitutional protection of a right to free development of personality meant that a child’s autonomy increases with age, including the development of a gender identity and bodily awareness. The Court determined that genital surgeries should not be conducted on children over the age of five. It determined that multidisciplinary teams should assess children’s needs on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe (now defunct) Intersex Society of North America stated that the Court decisions \"significantly restrict the ability of parents and doctors to resort to the scalpel when children are born with atypical genitals\", in a case that was \"the first time that a high court anywhere has considered whether [Intersex Genital Mutilation] is a violation of human rights.\" Morgan Holmes states that, while children who reach the same age and circumstances will be in the same position, then they will \"be permitted access to the conditions that protect their autonomies\". Other intersex children will not benefit, in particular at the point they are born: \"In its worst potential implications and uses, the court's decision may simply amplify the need to expedite procedures\".\n\nIn Sentencia T-551/99, later in 1999, the Court ruled in the case of NN, a two-year-old intersex child unable to consent to genital surgeries. Basing a decision on the case of XX, the Court determined that parents could give permission for the normalization of their child's genitals as long as the informed consent was \"qualified and persistent.\" However, this did not exist in the case of NN, because the \"parents were led to believe that genital-normalizing surgery was the only option for their daughter. The parents did not examine alternative options to surgery; therefore, their decision did not consider the best interests of the child\".\n\nIn Sentencia T-912/08, the Court ruled in the case of a five-year old child, ruling that parents and child could give joint consent. In cases where the child and parents had different opinions, no surgery could take place until adulthood.\n\nOn June 4, 2015, the Government issued a decree, signed by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior enabling simple administrative changes to legal gender by signing a document before a notary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28208029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28208029", "title": "Japan Farmers Party (1926–28)", "text": "Japan Farmers Party (1926–28)\n\nThe Japan Farmers Party (, \"Nihon Nōmintō\") was a political party in Japan between 1926 and 1928. It represented a rightist tendency amongst the proletarian parties in the country at the time. The party had a nationalist orientation.\n\nThe party emerged from a split in the Labour-Farmer Party in 1926. An older generation of leaders of the Japan Peasant Union, such as Okabe Kansuke and Hirano Rikizo, were uncomforatble with the influence of the younger, radical generation in the Japan Peasant Union (who were keen on including leftwing elements in the Labour-Farmer Party), such as Oyama Ikuo. Okabe and Hirano's group broke away from the Labour-Farmer Party in March 1926 and on October 17, 1926 they founded the Japan Farmers Party. The Japan Farmers Party declared itself to be \"a party by farmers, for farmers\". In this sense the party differentiated itself from the other proletarian parties, which all declared themselves to be based on a worker-peasant class alliance.\n\nThe party won four seats in the 1927 prefectural assembly elections of 1927.\n\nAs of 1928, the Japan Farmers Party claimed a membership of 70,138. The figure does however appear to be unreliable, compared to the national vote for the party in the elections the same year. The party launched ten candidates in the 1928 Diet election, whom together mustered 36,491 votes. None of the candidates of the party were elected.\n\nIn December 1928 the party merged with the Proletarian Masses Party, the Japan Labour-Farmer Party and four regional political parties, forming the Japan Masses Party.\n"}
{"id": "7632397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7632397", "title": "John Urry (sociologist)", "text": "John Urry (sociologist)\n\nJohn Richard Urry, FAcSS (; June 1, 1946, London – March 18, 2016, Lancaster) FAcSS was a British sociologist, Professor at Lancaster University. He is noted for work in the fields of the sociology of tourism and mobility.\n\nHe has written books on many other aspects of modern society including the transition away from 'organised capitalism', the sociology of nature and environmentalism, and social theory in general.\n\nBorn in London and educated at the Haberdashers' Aske's Boys School, Urry gained his first degrees from Christ's College, Cambridge in 1967, a 'double first' BA and MA in Economics, before going on to gain his PhD in Sociology from the same institution in 1972. He arrived at Lancaster University Sociology department as a lecturer in 1970, becoming head of department in 1983 and a professor in 1985.\n\nUrry was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a Founding Academician of the UK Academy of Learned Societies for the Social Sciences, and was a Visiting Professor at both Bristol and Roskilde Geography Departments. \n\nHis partner was the sociologist Sylvia Walby.\n\nHis original research interests were in the sociology of power and revolution and this resulted in the publication of \"Reference Groups and the Theory of Revolution\" (1973) and \"Power in Britain\" (1973).\n\nEarly work at Lancaster was in the area of social theory and the philosophy of the social sciences. \"Social Theory as Science\", (1975, 1982), co-written with his colleague Russell Keat, set out the main features of the realist philosophy of science. Critical confrontation with a number of Marxist traditions, of Althusserian structuralism, German state theory, and neo-Gramscian theory, resulted in the \"Anatomy of Capitalist Societies\" (1981).\n\nResearch until his death focused on five main areas.\n\nFirst, there was the urban and regional research mainly associated with the Lancaster Regionalism Group. Collaborative research resulted in \"Localities, Class and Gender\" (1985) and \"Restructuring. Place, Class and Gender\" (1990) Two particular themes were pursued: the relationship between society and space (as in the \"Social Relations and Spatial Structures\", co-edited with Derek Gregory, 1985); and the possibilities of developing local economic policies (as in \"Place, Policy and Politics\", 1990).\n\nThe second area of research was the more general dimensions of economic and social change in western capitalist societies. This resulted in three jointly written books, \"Capital, Labour and the Middle Classes\" (1983); \"The End of Organized Capitalism\" (1987); and \"Economies of Signs and Space\" (1994; latter two with Scott Lash).\n\nThirdly, research focused upon one particular set of industries that are of particular significance in contemporary western societies, namely consumer services and especially tourist-related services. The economic, social, environmental and cultural implications of such developments can be seen in \"The Tourist Gaze\" (1990, 2002: 2nd edn.), \"Consuming Places\" (1995), \"Touring Cultures\" (1997, edited with Chris Rojek), \"Tourism Mobilities\" (2004, edited with Mimi Sheller), and \"Performing Tourist Places\" (with J-O Barenholdt, M Haldrup, J. Larsen). This concern was extended to issues of environmental change and the 'sociology of nature' see \"Contested Natures\" (1998), \"Bodies of Nature\" (2001) (both with Phil Macnaghten) and \"Climate Change and Society\" (2011).\n\nFourthly, Urry had various research projects and publications relating to the changing nature of mobility. Publications include: \"Sociology Beyond Societies\" (2000), a special issue of Theory, Culture and Society, (August 2004 on Automobilities coedited with Mike Feathersone, Nigel Thrift); Mobile Technologies of the City (2006); coedited with Mimi Sheller. John Urry also directed the Centre for Mobilities Research between 2003 and 2015 and was later the Co-Director of the Institute for Social Futures.\n\nFinally, John Urry had been exploring some implications of complexity theory for the social sciences. Publications here include \"Global Complexity\" (2003), and \"Complexity\", a special double issue of \"Theory, Culture & Society \"(2005).\n\nHe was also one of the founding editors of the new journal \"Mobilities\", and served as editor of the \"International Library of Sociology\" since 1990 (Routledge).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6156344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6156344", "title": "Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology", "text": "Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology\n\nThe Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers dealing with social psychology and community psychology in the context of community problems and strengths. The journal is aimed at community practitioners and community/social psychology professionals and researchers. The editor-in-chief is Flora Cornish (London School of Economics & Political Science).\nThe \"Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology\" is aimed at a readership consisting of social psychologists, clinical psychologists, social workers, administrators, community practitioners, health professionals, social scientists, and psychiatrists. The journal is also open to lay members of the community by maintaining a less formal dialog with them through its \"Communications and commentary\" sections.\n\nThe journal publishes:\n\n"}
{"id": "490071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490071", "title": "Juan Manuel de Rosas", "text": "Juan Manuel de Rosas\n\nJuan Manuel de Rosas (30 March 1793 – 14 March 1877), nicknamed \"Restorer of the Laws\", was a politician and army officer who ruled Buenos Aires Province and briefly the Argentine Confederation. Although born into a wealthy family, Rosas independently amassed a personal fortune, acquiring large tracts of land in the process. Rosas enlisted his workers in a private militia, as was common for rural proprietors, and took part in the disputes that led to numerous civil wars in his country. Victorious in warfare, personally influential, and with vast landholdings and a loyal private army, Rosas became a caudillo, as provincial warlords in the region were known. He eventually reached the rank of brigadier general, the highest in the Argentine Army, and became the undisputed leader of the Federalist Party.\n\nIn December 1829, Rosas became governor of the province of Buenos Aires and established a dictatorship backed by state terrorism. In 1831, he signed the Federal Pact, recognising provincial autonomy and creating the Argentine Confederation. When his term of office ended in 1832, Rosas departed to the frontier to wage war on the indigenous peoples. After his supporters launched a \"coup\" in Buenos Aires, Rosas was asked to return and once again took office as governor. Rosas reestablished his dictatorship and formed the repressive \"Mazorca\", an armed parapolice that killed thousands of citizens. Elections became a farce, and the legislature and judiciary became docile instruments of his will. Rosas created a cult of personality and his regime became totalitarian in nature, with all aspects of society rigidly controlled.\n\nRosas faced many threats to his power during the late 1830s and early 1840s. He fought a war against the Peru–Bolivian Confederation, endured a blockade by France, faced a revolt in his own province and battled a major rebellion that lasted for years and spread to several Argentine provinces. Rosas persevered and extended his influence in the provinces, exercising effective control over them through direct and indirect means. By 1848, he had extended his power beyond the borders of Buenos Aires and was ruler of all of Argentina. Rosas also attempted to annex the neighbouring nations of Uruguay and Paraguay. France and Great Britain jointly retaliated against Argentine expansionism, blockading Buenos Aires for most of the late 1840s, but were unable to halt Rosas, whose prestige was greatly enhanced by his string of successes.\n\nWhen the Empire of Brazil began aiding Uruguay in its struggle against Argentina, Rosas declared war in August 1851, starting the Platine War. This short conflict ended with Rosas being defeated and absconding to Britain. His last years were spent in exile living as a tenant farmer until his death in 1877. Rosas garnered an enduring public perception among Argentines as a brutal tyrant. Since the 1930s, an authoritarian, anti-Semitic, and racist political movement in Argentina called Revisionism has tried to improve Rosas's reputation and establish a new dictatorship in the model of his regime. In 1989, his remains were repatriated by the government in an attempt to promote national unity, seeking forgiveness for him and especially for the 1970s military dictatorship. Rosas remains a controversial figure in Argentina in the 21st century.\n\nJuan Manuel José Domingo Ortiz de Rosas was born on 30 March 1793 at his family's town house in Buenos Aires, the capital of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. He was the first child of León Ortiz de Rosas and Agustina López de Osornio. León Ortiz was the son of an immigrant from the Spanish Province of Burgos. A military officer with an undistinguished career, León Ortiz had married into a wealthy \"Criollo\" family. The young Juan Manuel de Rosas's character was heavily influenced by his mother Agustina, a strong-willed and domineering woman who derived these character traits from her father Clemente López de Osornio, a landowner who died defending his estate from an Indian attack in 1783.\n\nAs was common practice at the time, Rosas was schooled at home until the age of 8, and then enrolled in what was regarded the best private school in Buenos Aires. Though befitting the son of a wealthy landowner, his education was unremarkable. According to historian John Lynch, Rosas' education \"was supplemented by his own efforts in the years that followed. Rosas was not entirely unread, though the time, the place, and his own bias limited the choice of authors. He appears to have had a sympathetic, if superficial, acquaintance with minor political thinkers of French absolutism.\"\n\nIn 1806, a British expeditionary force invaded Buenos Aires. A 13-year-old Rosas served distributing ammunition to troops in a force organised by Viceroy Santiago Liniers to counter the invasion. The British were defeated in August 1806, but returned a year later. Rosas was then assigned to the \"Caballería de los Migueletes\" (a militia cavalry), although he was probably barred from active duty during this time due to illness.\n\nAfter the British invasions had been repelled, Rosas and his family moved from Buenos Aires to their \"estancia\" (ranch). His work there further shaped his character and outlook as part of the Platine region's social establishment. In the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, owners of large landholdings (including the Rosas family) provided food, equipment and protection for families living in areas under their control. Their private defense forces consisted primarily of laborers who were drafted as soldiers. Most of these peons, as such workers were called, were gauchos.\n\nThe landed aristocracy of Spanish descent considered the illiterate, mixed-race gauchos, who comprised the majority of the population, to be ungovernable and untrustworthy. The gauchos were tolerated because there was no other labor force available, but were treated with contempt by the landowners. Rosas got along well with the gauchos in his service, despite his harsh and authoritarian comportment. He was known to dress like them, joke with them, take part in their horse-play, and pay them well, but he never allowed them to forget that he was their master rather than their equal. Shaped by the colonial society in which he lived, Rosas was conservative, an advocate of hierarchy and authority, like the other great landowners in the region.\n\nRosas acquired a working knowledge of administering ranchlands and, beginning in 1811, took charge of his family's \"estancias\". In 1813, he married Encarnación Ezcurra, daughter of a wealthy family from Buenos Aires. He soon afterwards sought to establish a career for himself, leaving his parent's estate. He produced salted meat and acquired landholdings in the process. As the years passed he became an \"estanciero\" (rancher) in his own right, accumulating land while establishing a successful partnership with second cousins from the politically powerful Anchorena clan. His hard work and organisational skills in deploying labour were key to his success, rather than creating new or applying nontraditional approaches to production.\n\nThe May Revolution of 1810 marked the early stage of a process which later led to the disintegration of Spain's Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, independence and the eventual formation of Argentina. Rosas, like many landowners in the countryside, was suspicious of a movement advanced primarily by merchants and bureaucrats in the city of Buenos Aires. Rosas was specially outraged by the execution of Viceroy Santiago Liniers at the hands of the revolutionaries. Rosas felt nostalgic about colonial times, seeing them as stable, orderly and prosperous.\n\nWhen the Congress of Tucumán severed all remaining ties with Spain in July 1816, Rosas and his peers accepted independence as an accomplished fact. Independence resulted in a breakup of the territories that had formed the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. The province of Buenos Aires fought a civil war with the other provinces over the degree of autonomy which the provincial governments were to have. The Unitarian Party supported the preeminence of Buenos Aires, while the Federalist Party defended provincial autonomy. A decade of strife over the issue destroyed the ties between capital and provinces, with new republics being declared throughout the country. Efforts by the Buenos Aires government to quash these independent states were met with determined local resistance. In 1820 Rosas and his gauchos, all dressed in red and nicknamed \"Colorados del Monte\" (\"Reds of the Mount\"), enlisted in the army of Buenos Aires as the Fifth Regiment of Militia. They repulsed invading provincial armies, saving Buenos Aires.\n\nAt the end of the conflict, Rosas returned to his \"estancias\" having acquired prestige for his military service. He was promoted to cavalry colonel and was awarded further landholdings by the government. These additions, together with his successful business and fresh property acquisitions, greatly boosted his wealth. By 1830, he was the 10th largest landowner in the province of Buenos Aires (in which the city of the same name was located), owning 300,000 cattle and of land. With his newly gained influence, military background, vast landholdings and a private army of gauchos loyal only to him, Rosas became the quintessential caudillo, as provincial warlords in the region were known.\n\nNational unity crumbled under the weight of a continuous round of civil wars, rebellions and coups. The Unitarian–Federalist struggle brought perennial instability while caudillos fought for power and laid waste to the countryside. By 1826, Rosas had built a power base, consisting of relatives, friends and clients, and joined the Federalist Party. He remained a strong advocate of his native province of Buenos Aires, with little concern for political ideology. In 1820, Rosas fought alongside the Unitarians because he saw the Federalist invasion as a menace to Buenos Aires. When the Unitarians sought to appease the Federalists by proposing to grant the other provinces a share in the customs revenues flowing through Buenos Aires, Rosas saw this as a threat to his province's interests. In 1827, four provinces led by Federalist caudillos rebelled against the Unitarian government. Rosas was the driving force behind the Federalist takeover of Buenos Aires and the election of Manuel Dorrego as provincial governor that year. Rosas was awarded with the post of general commander of the rural militias of the province of Buenos Aires on 14 July, which increased his influence and power.\n\nIn December 1828 Juan Lavalle, the Unitarian governor of Buenos Aires had Dorrego seized and executed without trial. With Dorrego gone, Rosas filled the vacant Federalist leadership and rebelled against the Unitarians. He allied with Estanislao López, caudillo and ruler of Santa Fe Province, and they defeated Lavalle at the Battle of Márquez Bridge in April 1829. When Rosas entered the city of Buenos Aires in November of that year, he was hailed both as a victorious military leader and as the head of the Federalists. Rosas was considered a handsome man, standing tall with blond hair and \"piercing blue eyes\". Charles Darwin, who met Rosas during the \"Beagle\" survey expedition, assessed him as \"a man of extraordinary character\". British diplomat Henry Southern said that in \"appearance Rosas resembles an English gentleman farmer—his manners are courteous without being refined. He is affable and agreeable in conversation, which however nearly always turns on himself, but his tone is pleasant and agreeable enough. His memory is stupendous: and his accuracy in all points of detail never failing.\"\n\nOn 6 December 1829, the House of Representatives of Buenos Aires elected Rosas governor and granted him \"facultades extraordinarias\" (extraordinary powers). This marked the beginning of his regime, described by historians as a dictatorship. He saw himself as a benevolent dictator, saying: \"For me the ideal of good government would be paternal autocracy, intelligent, disinterested and indefatigable ... I have always admired the autocratic dictators who have been the first servants of their people. That is my great title: I have always sought to serve the country.\" He used his power to censor his critics and banish his enemies. He later justified these measures, stating: \"When I took over the government I found the government in anarchy, divided into warring factions, reduced to pure chaos, a hell in miniature ...\"\n\nRosas' early administration was preoccupied with the severe deficits, large public debts and the impact of currency devaluation which his government inherited. A great drought that began in December 1828, which would last until April 1832, greatly impacted the economy. The Unitarians were still at large, controlling several provinces that had banded together in the Unitarian League. The capture of José María Paz, the main Unitarian leader, in March 1831 resulted in the end of the Unitarian–Federalist civil war and the collapse of the Unitarian League. Rosas was content, for the moment, to agree to recognize provincial autonomy in the Federal Pact. In an effort to alleviate the government's financial problems, he improved revenue collection while not raising taxes and curtailed expenditure.\n\nBy the end of his first term, Rosas was generally credited with having staved off political and financial instability, but he faced increased opposition in the House of Representatives. All members of the House were Federalists, as Rosas had restored the legislature that had been in place under Dorrego, and which had subsequently been dissolved by Lavalle. A liberal Federalist faction, which accepted dictatorship as a temporary necessity, called for the adoption of a constitution. Rosas was unwilling to govern constrained by a constitutional framework and only grudgingly relinquished his dictatorial powers. His term of office ended soon after, on 5 December 1832.\n\nWhile the government in Buenos Aires was distracted with political infighting, ranchers began moving into territories in the south inhabited by indigenous peoples. The resulting conflict with native peoples necessitated a government response. Rosas steadfastly endorsed policies which supported this expansion. During his governorship he granted lands in the south to war veterans and to ranchers seeking alternative pasture lands during the drought. Although the south was regarded as a virtual desert at the time, it had great potential and resources for agricultural development, particularly for ranching operations. The government gave Rosas command of an army with orders to subdue the Indian tribes in the coveted territory. Rosas was generous to those Indians who surrendered, rewarding them with animals and goods. Although he personally disliked killing Indians, he relentlessly hunted down those who refused to yield. The Desert Campaign lasted from 1833 to 1834, with Rosas subjugating the entire region. His conquest of the south opened up many possibilities for further territorial expansion, which led him to state: \"The fine territories, which extend from the Andes to the coast and down to the Magellan Straits are now wide open for our children.\"\n\nWhile Rosas was away on the Desert Campaign in October 1833, a group of \"Rosistas\" (Rosas's supporters) laid siege to Buenos Aires. Inside the city, Rosas's wife, Encarnación, assembled a contingent of associates to aid the besiegers. The Revolution of the Restorers, as the \"Rosista\" coup came to be known, forced the provincial governor Juan Ramón Balcarce to resign. In quick succession, Balcarce was followed by two others who presided over weak and ineffective governments. The \"Rosismo\" (Rosism) had become a powerful faction within the Federalist Party, and pressured other factions to accept a return of Rosas, endowed with dictatorial powers, as the only way to restore stability. The House of Representatives yielded, and on 7 March 1835, Rosas was reelected governor and invested with the \"suma del poder público\" (sum of public power).\n\nA plebiscite was held to determine whether the citizens of Buenos Aires supported Rosas's reelection and resumption of dictatorial powers. During his governorship from 1829 to 1832, Rosas had reduced the election process to a farce. He had installed loyal associates as justices of the peace, powerful officeholders with administrative and judicial functions who were also charged with tax collection, leading militia and presiding over elections. Through the exclusion of voters and intimidation of the opposition, the justices of the peace delivered any result Rosas favored. Half of the members of the House of Representatives faced reelection each year, and the opposition to Rosas had quickly been eliminated through rigged elections, allowing him to control the legislature. Control over finances had been stripped from the legislature, and its approval of legislation turned into a rubber stamp to preserve a semblance of democracy. The result of the 1835 election was a predictable 99.9 percent \"yes\" vote.\n\nRosas believed that the manipulation of elections were necessary for political stability, because most of the country's population was illiterate. He acquired absolute power over the province with the assent and support of most \"estancieros\" and businessmen, who shared his views. The \"estancia\" formed the power base on which Rosas relied. Lynch said that there \"was a great deal of group cohesion and solidarity among the landed class. Rosas himself was the center of a vast kinship group based on land. He was surrounded by a closely knit economic and political network linking deputies, law officers, officials, and military who were also landowners and related among themselves or with Rosas.\"\n\nRosas's authority and influence spread far beyond the House of Representatives. He exercised tight control over the bureaucracy as well as his cabinet, stating: \"Do not imagine that my Ministers are anything but my Secretaries. I put them in their offices to listen and report, and nothing more.\" His supporters were rewarded with positions within the state apparatus, and anyone he deemed a threat was purged. Opposition newspapers were burned in public squares. Rosas created an elaborate cult of personality, presenting himself as an almighty and fatherlike figure who protected the people. His portraits were carried in street demonstrations and placed on church altars to be venerated. \"Rosismo\" was no longer a mere faction within the Federalist ranks; it had become a political movement. As early as 1829, Rosas had confided to an Uruguayan diplomatic envoy: \"I tell you I am not a Federalist, and I have never belonged to that party.\" During his governorship, he still claimed to have favoured Federalism against Unitarianism, although in practice Federalism had by that time been subsumed into the \"Rosismo\" movement.\n\nRosas established a totalitarian regime, in which the government sought to dictate every aspect of public and private life. It was mandated that the slogan \"Death to the Savage Unitarians\" be inscribed at the head of all official documents. Anyone on the state payroll—from military officers, priests, to civil servants and teachers—was obliged to wear a red badge with the inscription \"Federation or Death\". Every male was required to have a \"federal look\", i.e., to sport a large moustache and sideburns, leading many to wear false moustaches. The red colour—symbol of both the Federalist Party and of \"Rosismo\"—became omnipresent in the province of Buenos Aires. Soldiers wore red \"chiripás\" (blankets worn as trousers), caps and jackets, and their horses sported red accoutrements. Civilians were also required to wear the colour. A red waistcoat, red badge and red hat band were required for men, while women wore ribbons in that colour and children donned school uniforms based upon \"Rosismo\" paradigms. Building exteriors and interiors were also decorated in red.\n\nMost Catholic clergy in Buenos Aires willingly backed Rosas' regime. The Jesuits, the only ones who refused to do so, were expelled from the country. The lower social strata in Buenos Aires, which formed the vast majority of its populace, experienced no improvement in the conditions under which they lived. When Rosas slashed expenditures, he cut resources from education, social services, general welfare and public works. None of the lands confiscated from Indians and Unitarians were turned over to rural workers, including gauchos. Black people did not experience any improvement in their conditions either. Rosas was himself a slave-owner, and helped revive the slave trade. Despite doing little to promote their interests, he remained popular among blacks and gauchos. He employed blacks, patronized their festivities and attended their \"candombles\". The gauchos admired his leadership and willingness to fraternize with them to some extent.\n\nIn addition to purges, banishments and censorship, Rosas took measures against the opposition and anyone else he deemed a threat that historians have considered state terrorism. Terror was a tool used to intimidate dissident voices, to shore up support among his own partisans and to exterminate his foes. His targets were denounced, sometimes inaccurately, as having ties to Unitarians. Those victimised included members of his government and party who were suspected of being insufficiently loyal. If actual opponents were not at hand, the regime found other targets that were punished to make an example. A climate of fear was used to create unquestioning conformity to Rosas' dictates.\n\nState terrorism was carried out by the \"Mazorca\", an armed parapolice unit of the \"Sociedad Popular Restauradora\" political organization. The \"Sociedad Popular Restauradora\" and the \"Mazorca\" were creations of Rosas, who retained tight control over both. The tactics of the \"mazorqueros\" included neighborhood sweeps in which houses would be searched and occupants intimidated. Others who fell into their power were arrested, tortured and killed. Killings were generally by shooting, lance-thrusting or throat-slitting. Many were castrated, or had their beards scalped or their tongues cut out. Modern estimates report around 2,000 people were killed from 1829 until 1852.\n\nAlthough a judicial system still existed in Buenos Aires, Rosas removed any independence the courts might have exercised, either by controlling appointments to the judiciary, or by circumventing their authority entirely. He would sit in judgement over cases, issuing sentences which included fines, service in the army, imprisonment, or execution. The exercise of state terror as a tool of intimidation was restricted to Rosas himself; his subordinates had no control over it. It was used against specific targets, rather than randomly. Terrorism was orchestrated rather than a product of popular zeal, was targeted for effect rather than indiscriminate. Anarchic demonstrations, vigilantism and disorderliness were antithetical to a regime touting a law and order agenda. Foreigners were exempted from abuses, as were people too poor or inconsequential to serve as effective examples. Victims were selected for their usefulness as tools of intimidation.\n\nThroughout the late 1830s and early 1840s, Rosas faced a series of major threats to his power. The Unitarians found an ally in Andrés de Santa Cruz, the ruler of the Peru–Bolivian Confederation. Rosas declared war against the Peru–Bolivian Confederation on 19 March 1837, joining the War of the Confederation between Chile and Peru–Bolivia. The \"Rosista\" army played a minor role in the conflict, which resulted in the overthrow of Santa Cruz and the dissolution of the Peru–Bolivian Confederation. On 28 March 1838, France declared a blockade of the Port of Buenos Aires, eager to extend its influence over the region. Unable to confront the French, Rosas increased internal repression to forestall potential uprisings against his regime.\n\nThe blockade caused severe damage to the economy across all the provinces, as they exported their goods through the port of Buenos Aires. Despite the 1831 Federal Pact, all provinces had long been discontent with the \"de facto\" primacy that Buenos Aires province held over them. On 28 February 1839, the province of Corrientes revolted and attacked both Buenos Aires and Entre Ríos provinces. Rosas counterattacked and defeated the rebels, killing their leader, the governor of Corrientes. In June, Rosas uncovered a plot by dissident \"Rosistas\" to oust him from power in what became known as the Maza conspiracy. Rosas imprisoned some of the plotters and executed others. Manuel Vicente Maza, president of both the House of Representatives and the Supreme Court, was murdered by Rosas's \"Mazorca\" agents within the halls of the parliament on the pretext that his son was involved in the conspiracy. In the countryside, \"estancieros\", including a younger brother of Rosas, revolted, beginning the Rebellion of the South. The rebels attempted to ally with France, but were easily crushed, many losing their lives and properties in the process.\n\nIn September 1839, Juan Lavalle returned after ten years in exile. He allied with the governor of Corrientes, which revolted once again, and invaded Buenos Aires province at the head of Unitarian troops armed and supplied by the French. Emboldened by Lavalle's actions, the provinces of Tucumán, Salta, La Rioja, Catamarca and Jujuy formed the Coalition of the North and also rebelled against Buenos Aires. Great Britain intervened on behalf of Rosas, and France lifted the blockade on 29 October 1840. The struggle with his internal enemies was hard-fought. By December 1842, Lavalle had been killed and the rebellious provinces subdued, except for Corrientes, which was only defeated in 1847. Terrorism was also employed on the battlefield, as the \"Rosistas\" refused to take prisoners. The defeated men had their throats cut and their heads put on display.\n\nAround 1845, Rosas managed to establish absolute dominance over the region. He exercised complete control over all aspects of society with the solid backing of the army. Rosas was raised from colonel to brigadier general (the highest army rank) on 18 December 1829. On 12 November 1840 he declined the newly created and higher rank of grand marshal (\"gran mariscal\"), which had been bestowed on him by the House of Representatives. The army was led by officers who had backgrounds and values similar to his. Confident of his power, Rosas made some concessions by returning confiscated properties to their owners, disbanding the \"Mazorca\" and ending torture and political assassinations. The inhabitants of Buenos Aires still dressed and behaved according to the set of rules Rosas had imposed, but the climate of constant and widespread fear greatly diminished.\n\nWhen Rosas was elected governor for the first time in 1829, he held no power outside the province of Buenos Aires. There was no national government or national parliament. The former Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata had been succeeded by the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata, which by 1831, following the Federal Pact and officially from 22 May 1835, had increasingly been known as the Argentine Confederation, or simply, Argentina. Rosas's victory over the other Argentine provinces in the early 1840s turned them into satellites of Buenos Aires. He gradually put in place provincial governors who were either allied or too weak to have real independence, which allowed him to exercise dominance over all the provinces. By 1848, Rosas began calling his government the \"government of the confederacy\" and the \"general government\", which would have been inconceivable a few years before. The next year, with acquiescence of the provinces, he named himself \"Supreme Head of the Confederacy\" and became the indisputable ruler of Argentina.\n\nAs Rosas aged and his health declined, the question of who would succeed him became a growing concern among his supporters. His wife Encarnación had died in October 1838 after a long illness. Although devastated by his loss, Rosas exploited her death to raise support for his regime. Not long after, at the age of 47, he began an affair with his fifteen-year-old maid, María Eugenia Castro, with whom he had five illegitimate children. From his marriage to Encarnación, Rosas had two children: Juan Bautista Pedro and Manuela Robustiana. Rosas established a hereditary dictatorship, naming the children from his marriage as his successors, stating that \"[t]hey are both worthy children of my beloved Encarnación, and if, God willing, I die, then you will find that they are capable of succeeding me.\" It is unknown whether Rosas was a closet monarchist. Later during his exile, Rosas would declare that Princess Alice of the United Kingdom would be the ideal ruler for his country. Nonetheless, in public he stated that his regime was republican in nature.\n\nThe breakup of the old Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata during the 1810s eventually resulted in the emergence of independent nations of Paraguay, Bolivia and Uruguay in the northern portion of the Viceroyalty, while its southern territories coalesced into the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata. Rosas planned to restore, if not all, at least a considerable part of the former borders of the old Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. He never recognized the independence of Paraguay and regarded it a rebel Argentine province that would inevitably be reconquered. He sent an army under Manuel Oribe who invaded Uruguay and conquered most of the country, except for its capital Montevideo that endured a long siege starting in 1843. When pressed by the British, Rosas declined to guarantee Uruguayan independence. In South America, all potential foreign threats to Rosas's plans of conquest collapsed, including Gran Colombia and the Peru–Bolivian Confederation, or were troubled by internal turmoil, as was the Empire of Brazil. To reinforce his claims over Uruguay and Paraguay, and maintain his dominance over the Argentine provinces, Rosas blockaded the port of Montevideo and closed the interior rivers to foreign trade.\n\nThe loss of trade was unacceptable to Britain and France. On 17 September 1845 both nations established the Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata and enforced the free navigation in the Río de la Plata Basin (or Platine region). Argentina resisted the pressure and fought back to a standstill. This undeclared war caused more economic harm to France and Britain than to Argentina. The British faced increasing pressure at home once they realised that the access gained to the other ports within the Platine region did not compensate for the loss of trade with Buenos Aires. Britain ended all hostilities and lifted the blockade on 15 July 1847, followed by France on 12 June 1848. Rosas had successfully resisted the two most powerful nations on Earth; his standing, and Argentina's, increased among Hispanic American nations. The Venezuelan humanist Andrés Bello, summarizing the prevailing opinion, considered Rosas among \"the leading ranks of the great men of America\".\n\nAlthough his prestige was on the rise, Rosas made no serious attempts to further liberalise his regime. Every year he presented his resignation and the pliant House of Representatives predictably declined, claiming that maintaining him in office was vital for the nation's welfare. Rosas also allowed exiled Argentines to return to their homeland, but only because he was so confident of his control and that no one was willing to risk defying him. The execution in August 1848 of the pregnant young Camila O'Gorman, charged with a forbidden romance with a priest, caused a backlash throughout the continent. Nonetheless, it served as a clear warning that Rosas had no intention of loosening his grip.\n\nRosas failed to realize that discontent was steadily growing throughout the country. Throughout the 1840s he became increasingly secluded in his country house in Palermo, some miles away from Buenos Aires. There he ruled and lived under heavy protection provided by guards and patrols. He declined to meet with his ministers and relied solely on secretaries. His daughter Manuela replaced his wife at his right hand and became the link between Rosas and the outside world. The reason for Rosas's increasing isolation was given by a member of his secretariat: \"The dictator is not stupid: he knows the people hate him; he goes in constant fear and always has one eye on the chance to rob and abuse them and the other on making a getaway. He has a horse ready saddled at the door of his office day and night\".\n\nMeanwhile, Brazil, now ascendant under Emperor Dom Pedro II, provided support to the Uruguayan government that still held out in Montevideo, as well as to the ambitious Justo José de Urquiza, a caudillo in Entre Ríos who rebelled against Rosas. Once one of Rosas' most trusted lieutenants, Urquiza now claimed to fight for a constitutional government, although his ambition to become head of state was barely disguised. In retaliation, Rosas declared war on Brazil on 18 August 1851, beginning the Platine War. The army under Oribe in Uruguay surrendered to Urquiza in October. With arms and financial aid given by Brazil, Urquiza then marched through Argentine territory heading to Buenos Aires.\n\nUncharacteristically, Rosas remained passive throughout the conflict. The Argentine ruler lost heart once he realized that he had fallen into a trap. Even if he defeated Urquiza, his forces would probably be weakened enough to prevent him from challenging the Brazilian army that was ready to invade Argentina. With no other alternative, Rosas remarked: \"There is no other way; we have to play for the high stakes and go for everything. Here we are, and from here there is no retreat.\" After an unsuccessful battle against Urquiza on 3 February 1852, Rosas fled to Buenos Aires. Once there, he disguised himself and boarded a ship that took him to Britain to live in exile. Embittered, he remarked: \"It is not the people who have overthrown me. It is the monkeys, the Brazilians.\"\n\nRosas arrived in Plymouth, Great Britain, on 26 April 1852. The British gave him asylum, paid for his travel and welcomed him with a 21-gun salute. These honours were granted because, according to the British Foreign Secretary James Harris, 3rd Earl of Malmesbury, \"General Rosas was no common refugee, but one who had shown great distinction and kindness to the British merchants who had traded with his country\". Months before his fall, Rosas had arranged with the British chargé d'affaires Captain Robert Gore for protection and asylum in the event of his defeat. Both his children by Encarnación followed him into exile, although Juan Bautista soon returned with his family to Argentina. His daughter Manuela married the son of an old associate of Rosas, an act which the former dictator never forgave. A domineering father, Rosas wanted his daughter to remain devoted to him alone. Although he forbade her from writing or visiting, Manuela remained loyal to him and maintained contact.\n\nThe new Argentine government confiscated all of Rosas' properties and tried him as a criminal, later sentencing him to death. Rosas was appalled that most of his friends, supporters and allies abandoned him and became either silent or openly critical of him. \"Rosismo\" vanished overnight. \"The landed class, supporters and beneficiaries of Rosas, now had to make their peace—and their profits—with his successors. Survival, not allegiance, was their politics\", argued Lynch. Urquiza, a one-time ally and later an enemy, reconciled with Rosas and sent him financial assistance, hoping for political support in return—although Rosas had scant political capital left. Rosas followed Argentina's developments while in exile, always hoping for an opportunity to return, but he never again insinuated himself into Argentine affairs.\n\nIn exile Rosas was not destitute, but he lived modestly amid financial constraints during the remainder of his life. A very few loyal friends sent him money, but it was never enough. He sold one of his \"estancias\" before the confiscation and became a tenant farmer in Swaythling, near Southampton. He employed a housekeeper and two to four laborers, to whom he paid above-average wages. Despite constant concern over his shortage of funds, Rosas found joy in farm life, once remarking: \"I now consider myself happy on this farm, living in modest circumstances as you see, earning a living the hard way by the sweat of my brow\". A contemporary described him in final years: \"He was then eighty, a man still handsome and imposing; his manners were most refined, and the modest environment did nothing to lessen his air of a great lord, inherited from his family.\" After a walk on a cold day, Rosas caught pneumonia and died at 07:00 on the morning of 14 March 1877. Following a private mass attended by his family and a few friends, he was buried in the town cemetery of Southampton.\n\nSerious attempts to reassess Rosas's reputation began in the 1880s with the publication of scholarly works by Adolfo Saldías and Ernesto Quesada. Later, a more blatant \"Revisionist\" movement would flourish under \"Nacionalismo\" (Nationalism). \"Nacionalismo\" was a political movement that appeared in Argentina in the 1920s and reached its apex in the 1930s. It was the Argentine equivalent of the authoritarian ideologies that arose during the same period, such as Nazism, Fascism and Integralism. Argentine Nationalism was an authoritarian, anti-Semitic, racist and misogynistic political movement with support for racially based pseudo-scientific theories such as eugenics. \"Revisionismo\" (Revisionism) was the historiographical wing of Argentine \"Nacionalismo\". The main goal of Argentine \"Nacionalismo\" was to establish a national dictatorship. For the \"Nacionalismo\" movement, Rosas and his regime were idealized and portrayed as paragons of governmental virtue. \"Revisionismo\" served as a useful tool, as the main purpose of the revisionists within the \"Nacionalismo\" agenda was to rehabilitate Rosas's image.\n\nDespite a decades-long struggle, \"Revisionismo\" failed to be taken seriously. According to Michael Goebel, the revisionists had a \"lack of interest in scholarly standards\" and were known for \"their institutional marginality in the intellectual field\". They also never succeeded in changing mainstream views regarding Rosas. William Spence Robertson said in 1930: \"Among the enigmatical personages of the 'Age of Dictators' in South America none played a more spectacular role than the Argentine dictator, Juan Manuel de Rosas, whose gigantic and ominous figure bestrode the Plata River for more than twenty years. So despotic was his power that Argentine writers have themselves styled this age of their history as 'The Tyranny of Rosas'.\" In 1961, William Dusenberry said: \"Rosas is a negative memory in Argentina. He left behind him the black legend of Argentine history—a legend which Argentines in general wish to forget. There is no monument to him in the entire nation; no park, plaza, or street bears his name.\"\n\nIn the 1980s, Argentina was a fractured, deeply divided nation, having faced military dictatorships, severe economic crises and a defeat in the Falklands War. President Carlos Menem decided to repatriate Rosas's remains and take advantage of the occasion to unite the Argentines. Menem believed that if the Argentines could forgive Rosas and his regime, they might do the same regarding the more recent and vividly remembered past. On 30 September 1989, an elaborate and enormous cortege organized by the government was held, after which the remains of the Argentine ruler were interred in his family vault at La Recoleta Cemetery, Buenos Aires. Closely allied with neorevisionists, Menem (and his fellow Peronist presidential successors Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner) have honoured Rosas on banknotes, postage stamps and monuments, causing mixed reactions among the public. Rosas remains a controversial figure among Argentines, who \"have long been fascinated and outraged\" by him, as historian John Lynch noted.\n"}
{"id": "36291490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36291490", "title": "Kakitsu uprising", "text": "Kakitsu uprising\n\nThe was a peasant uprising demanding debt cancellation that occurred in 1441, the 1st year of Kakitsu, in Kyoto and surrounding areas such as Ōmi Province.\n\nIn August, amidst the political chaos following the assassination in June of the 6th shōgun Ashikaga Yoshinori, peasants revolted, with the bashaku of Kyoto and Sakamoto and Otsu in Ōmi Province at their core, in demand of a comprehensive debt cancellation order on the basis of \"daihajime no tokusei\", debt relief on the occasion of the ascension of a new shōgun. Jizamurai took the leadership of the movement and it swelled into a revolt of several tens of thousands of people. This insurrection did not spread everywhere, but rather formed a ring around Kyoto.\n\nAfter severing communication between Kyoto and the outside world, the rebel army attacked sake merchants, storehouse money brokers, and temples. Under the guidance of ji-samurai, the rebel force acted in an organized manner and kept a lid on wanton looting. They occupied Tō-ji and Kitano Tenmangū and blockaded Tanbaguchi and Nishihachijou.\n\nAt the beginning of the uprising Mitsutsuna Rokkaku, the shugo of Ōmi Province, issued his debt's cancellation order, but because Enryaku-ji opposed it, their contracted bashaku of Omi were alienated from the rebels and even opposed them as they went further in occupying Kiyomizu-dera.\n\nWhile the shogunate at first intended to get a handle on the situation by promulgating a debt relief order for peasants only, the rebels were trying to get the support of members of the establishment by demanding comprehensive debt cancellation at a flat province-wide rate that also included the kuge and buke. Furthermore, the kanrei Mochiyuki Hosokawa had accepted a bribe of 1,000 kanmon from the storehouse money brokers before he released an order to dispatch troops for their protection, and the \"daimyō\" who knew about the bribe refused his order. In the case of the \"daimyō\" Mochikuni Hatakeyama, he opposed the suppression of the uprising because his own vassals were involved in it, and the situation became even more chaotic.\n\nFinally the 7th \"shōgun\" Ashikaga Yoshikatsu accepted their demands and issued a comprehensive debt cancellation order, the \"Yamashiro Ikkoku Heikin Tokuseirei\", which included debt from land sold in perpetuity by farmers less than 20 years ago. Because the shogunate released an official debt cancellation order, as opposed to their eventual refusal to do so during the Shōchō Uprising, greatly damaged its authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "18828933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18828933", "title": "Kotjebi", "text": "Kotjebi\n\nKotjebi, kotchebi, or ggotjebi () is a Korean term denoting North Korean homeless children. The term literally means \"flowering (꽃) swallows (제비)\", given because of the kotjebi's constant search for food and shelter. The kotjebi are not officially recognized in North Korea, with any mention of the term being prohibited in state publications and documents.\n\nThe orphaned kotjebi first appeared \"en masse\" in the mid-1990s in the wake of the North Korean famine, which collapsed the food distribution system. In an effort to \"stabilize the livelihood of vagrants throughout the country\", the North Korean government established special \"Children's Detention Camps\" in 1995, which were effectively rundown apartments. Because of poor conditions in the detention camps children have died of malnutrition.\n\nThe kotjebi are constantly forced to seek food and thus gather in groups to beg and pickpocket. Most of the kotjebi eat only once a day. The diet of the kotjebi, along with the food they obtain from begging, consists mainly of grass soup, wild vegetable porridge, and grass roots.\n\n"}
{"id": "224446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224446", "title": "League of German Girls", "text": "League of German Girls\n\nThe League of German Girls or Band of German Maidens (, abbreviated as BDM) was the girls' wing of the Nazi Party youth movement, the Hitler Youth. It was the only legal female youth organization in Nazi Germany.\n\nAt first, the League consisted of two sections: the \"Jungmädelbund\" (\"Young Girls' League\") for girls aged 10 to 14, and the League proper for girls aged 14 to 18. In 1938, a third section was introduced, the \"BDM-Werk Glaube und Schönheit\" (\"Faith and Beauty Society\"), which was voluntary and open to girls between the ages of 17 and 21.\n\nWith the surrender of Nazi Germany in 1945, the organization \"de facto\" ceased to exist. On 10 October 1945, it was outlawed by the Allied Control Council along with other Nazi Party organizations. Under Section 86 of the German Criminal Code, the Hitler Youth is an \"unconstitutional organization\" and the distribution or public use of its symbols, except for educational or research purposes, is not permitted.\n\nThe \"Bund Deutscher Mädel\" had its origins as early as the 1920s, in the first \"Mädchenschaften\" or \"Mädchengruppen\", also known as Schwesternschaften der Hitler-Jugend (Sisterhood of the Hitler Youth). In 1930, it was founded as the female branch of the Hitler Youth movement. The league of German Maidens was nicknamed \"The League of German Mattresses\", perhaps suggesting sexual promiscuity between the gender-separated groups. Its full title was Bund Deutscher Mädel in der Hitler-Jugend (League of German Girls in the Hitler Youth). In the final electioneering campaigns of 1932, Hitler inaugurated it with a mass meeting featuring the League; on election eve, the League and Hitler Youth staged \"evening of entertainment.\" It did not attract a mass following until the Nazis came to power in January 1933.\n\nSoon after taking office as \"Reichsjugendführer\" on 17 June 1933, Baldur von Schirach issued regulations that suspended or forbid existing youth organizations ('concurrence'). Those youth groups were compulsorily integrated into the BDM, which was declared to be the only legally permitted organization for girls in Germany. Many of the existing organizations closed down to avoid this. These Nazi activities were a part of the \"Gleichschaltung\" (Nazification) starting in 1933. The \"Reichskonkordat\" between the Catholic Church and Nazi Germany, signed on 20 July 1933, gave a certain shelter to the Catholic youth ministry, but they were the object of much bullying.\n\nThe \"Gesetz über die Hitlerjugend\" (law concerning the Hitler Youth) dated 1 December 1936, forced all eligible juveniles to be a member of HJ or BDM. They had to be ethnic Germans, German citizens and free of hereditary diseases. Girls had to be 10 years of age to enter this League.\n\nThe BDM was run directly by Schirach until 1934, when Trude Mohr, a former postal worker, was appointed to the position of \"BDM-Reichsreferentin\", or National Speaker of the BDM, reporting directly to Schirach. After Mohr married in 1937, she was required to resign her position (the BDM required members to be unmarried and without children in order to remain in leadership positions), and was succeeded by Dr. Jutta Rüdiger, a doctor of psychology from Düsseldorf, who was a more assertive leader than Mohr but nevertheless a close ally of Schirach, and also of his successor from 1940 as HJ leader, Artur Axmann. She joined Schirach in resisting efforts by the head of the \"NS-Frauenschaft\" (Nazi Woman's League), Gertrud Scholtz-Klink, to gain control of the BDM. Rüdiger led the BDM until its dissolution in 1945.\n\nAs in the HJ, separate sections of the BDM existed, according to the age of participants. Girls between the ages of 10 and 14 years old were members of the Young Girl's League (\"Jungmädelbund\", JM), and girls between the ages of 14 and 18 were members of the \"Bund Deutscher Mädel\" (BDM) proper. In 1938, a third section was added, known as Faith and Beauty (\"Glaube und Schönheit\"), which was voluntary and open to girls between 17 and 21 and was intended to groom them for marriage, domestic life, and future career goals. Ideally, girls were to be married and have children once they were of age, but importance was also placed on job training and education.\n\nAt the beginning of World War II, the \"Reichsarbeitsdienst\" (National Labour Service; RAD) became compulsory also for young women. It lasted half a year. Many young women became \"Blitzmädel\" (\"Wehrmachthelferin\" or female combat soldiers) during World War II.\n\nWhile these ages are general guidelines, there were exceptions for members holding higher (salaried) leadership positions, starting at the organizational level of \"Untergau\". As regards lower (honorary) positions, even members of the JM could apply for them after two years of membership and would then obtain such a position typically at the age of 13. The higher leadership was recruited from members over 18 and was expected to maintain salaried office for no more than 10 years, and to leave the BDM by the age of 30. As a general rule, members had to leave when they married and especially when they had children.\n\nThe BDM uniform was a full blue skirt, middy blouse and heavy marching shoes. In 1939, a new uniform was introduced for regional and national leaders within the League of German Girls, and along with the new uniforms came new rank insignia for leaders. These new rank insignia took the form of a silver, and for higher ranks, gold bullion embroidered open-winged eagle on a black (white, on the summer tunic) shield with various types of borders to indicate grade. They were worn on the left chest of the tunic.\n\nTrude Mohr was appointed the first \"Reichsreferentin\" in June 1934. Her main initiative was to nourish a new way of living for the German youth, stating \nIn 1937, after marrying \"Obersturmführer\" Wolf Bürkner, she became pregnant and resigned her duties.\nJutta Rüdiger (1910–2001) was a special case. She joined the BDM only in 1933, at the age of 23 and after having finished her doctorate in psychology. She obtained honorary positions instantly in 1933 and early 1934, was promoted to her first salaried position (leader of Untergau Ruhr-Lower Rhine) in June 1935 and was appointed \"Reichsreferentin\" for the BDM (head of the BDM) in November 1937 (aged 27), succeeding Mohr, who had vacated the position on her marriage, as Nazi policy required. She kept this position even until the German defeat, when she had reached the age of 34.\n\nClementine zu Castell-Rüdenhausen (b. 1912), a countess and member of the higher Franconian aristocracy, was appointed leader of \"Gau Unterfranken\" in 1933, at the age of 21, which also seems to have been the age when she joined the BDM, as no earlier date of membership nor any previous lower positions are recorded in her case. She was appointed head of \"Faith and Beauty\" in January 1938, a few days before her 26th birthday, and was discharged in September 1939 because of her marriage with Wilhelm \"Utz\" Utermann in October 1939. She was followed by an Austrian member, Annemarie Kaspar (b. 1917), who had been appointed \"Untergauführerin\" at the age of 20 in March 1938 and became head of B&B two weeks before her 22nd birthday. She too married and was discharged in May 1941, to be replaced in June 1941 by Martha Middendorf (b. 1914), who was 27 at the time of her appointment and was discharged already in February 1942, as she too had married. From this time on, Jutta Rüdiger, who was no candidate for marriage but living in lifelong partnership with Hedy Böhmer, took over to lead the B&B directly, thus holding both leadership positions until 1945.\n\nThe BDM used campfire romanticism, summer camps, folklorism, tradition, and sports to indoctrinate girls within the National Socialist belief system, and to train them for their roles in German society: wife, mother, and homemaker. Their home evenings revolved around domestic training, but Saturdays involved strenuous outdoor exercise and physical training. The purpose of these activities was to promote good health, which would enable them to serve their people and their country. The \"home evenings\"—ideally to be conducted in specially built homes—also included world view training, with instruction in history. This instruction would include learning the Horst Wessel song, the Nazi holidays, stories about Hitler Youth martyrs, and facts about their locality and German culture and history. Physical education included track and field sports like running and the long jump, gymnastics (e.g. somersaulting and tightrope walking), route-marching, and swimming. The importance of self-sacrifice for Germany was heavily emphasized; a Jewish woman, reflecting on her longing to join the League of German Girls, concluded that it had been the admonishment for self-sacrifice that had drawn her most. The League was particularly regarded as instructing girls to avoid \"Rassenschande\" or racial defilement, which was treated with particular importance for young females.\n\nHoliday trips offered by HJ and BDM – i.e. skiing in winter and tent camps in summer – were affordable; children from poor families got subsidies. These offers were popular.\n\nThe League encouraged rebellion against parents. \"Der Giftpilz\" presented the propaganda of a German girl being ordered to visit a Jewish doctor by her mother; the girl protested on the grounds of what she had learned at BDM meetings, and while at the office, remembered the warnings in time to escape being molested by the doctor. This caused her mother to agree that the BDM had clearly been in the right.\n\nIlsa McKee noted that the lectures of Hitler Youth and the BDM on the need to produce more children produced several illegitimate children, which neither the mothers nor the possible fathers regarded as problematic. These and other behaviors taught led to parents complaining that their authority was being undermined. In 1944, a group of parents complained to the court that the leaders of the League were openly telling their daughters to have illegitimate children. Public opinion attributed a great deal of sexual laxity to the members. The preparation camps for the 'Landdienst' (land service) of girls and boys often lay adjacent to each other. 900 of the girls participating in the 1936 \"Reichsparteitag\" in Nürnberg became pregnant. In 1937, a prohibition came out saying that camping was forbidden to the BDM.\n\nThe \"Jungmädel\" were only taught, while the BDM was involved in community service, political activities and other activities considered useful at that time.\n\nBefore entering any occupation or advanced studies, the girls, like the boys in Hitler Youth, had to complete a year of land service (\"Landfrauenjahr\"). Although working on a farm was not the only approved form of service, it was a common one; the aim was to bring young people back from the cities, in the hope that they would then stay \"on the land\" in service of Nazi blood and soil beliefs. Another form of service was as a domestic work in a family with many children.\n\nThe 'Faith and Beauty' organizations offered groups where girls could receive further education and training in fields that interested them. Some of the works groups that were available were arts and sculpture, clothing design and sewing, general home economics, and music.\n\n\"Das deutsche Mädel\" was the Nazi magazine directed at these girls.\n\nThe outbreak of war altered the role of the BDM, though not as radically as it did the role of the boys in the HJ, who were to be fed into the German Wehrmacht (armed forces) when they turned 18. The BDM helped the war effort in many ways. Younger girls collected donations of money, as well as goods such as clothing or old newspapers for the Winter Relief and other Nazi charitable organizations. Many groups, particularly BDM choirs and musical groups, visited wounded soldiers at hospitals or sent care packages to the front. Girls knitted socks, grew gardens, and engaged in similar tasks.\n\nGirls also helped stage the celebrations after the de facto capitulation of France (see Second Armistice at Compiègne, 22 June 1940).\n\nThe older girls volunteered as nurses' aides at hospitals, or to help at train stations where wounded soldiers or refugees needed a hand. After 1943, as Allied air attacks on German cities increased, many BDM girls went into paramilitary and military services (\"Wehrmachtshelferin\"), where they served as Flak Helpers, signals auxiliaries, searchlight operators, and office staff. Unlike male HJs, BDM girls took little part in the actual fighting or operation of weaponry, although some Flak Helferinnen operated anti-aircraft guns.\n\nMany older girls, with Hitler Youth were sent to Poland as part of the Germanisation efforts. These girls, along with Hitler Youth, were first to oversee the eviction of Poles to make room for new settlers and ensure they did not take much from their homes, as furniture and the like were to be left there for the settlers. Their task were then to educate ethnic Germans, either living in Poland or resettled there from the Baltic states, according to German ways. This included instruction in the German language, as many spoke only Polish or Russian. They also had to organize the younger ones into the League. Because many Hitler Youth leaders were drafted into the military, the task of organizing the boys into Hitler Youth also fell heavily on the League. They were also to provide help on the farm and in the household. As the only contact with German authorities, they were often requested to help with the occupation authorities, and they put on various entertainments such as songfests to encourage the down-spirited new settlers. Some members were sent to the colony of Hegewald for such efforts even when they had to receive gas masks and soldier escorts.\n\nConversely, the young Polish girls who were selected for \"racially valuable traits\" and sent to Germany for Germanization were made to join the League as part of the Germanization.\n\nBy 1944, the drafting of boys resulted in most of the \"land service\" help with the harvest being performed by girls.\n\nIn the last days of the war, some BDM girls, just like some boys of the male Hitler Youth (although not nearly as many), joined with the \"Volkssturm\" (the last-ditch defense) in Berlin and other cities in fighting the invading Allied armies, especially the Soviets. Officially, this was not sanctioned by the BDM's leadership which opposed an armed use of its girls even though some BDM leaders had received training in the use of hand-held weapons (about 200 leaders went on a shooting course which was to be used for self-defense purposes). After the war, Dr. Jutta Rüdiger denied that she had approved BDM girls using weapons, and this appears to have been the truth.\n\nSome BDM girls were recruited into the Werwolf groups which were intended to wage guerrilla war in Allied-occupied areas.\n\nThe 'Kontrollratsgesetz Nr. 2' (enacted 10 October 1945) by the Allied Control Council forbade the NSDAP and all its sub-organizations, including the BDM. Their properties were confiscated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27954234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27954234", "title": "Liberty Monument (Ticonderoga)", "text": "Liberty Monument (Ticonderoga)\n\nLiberty Monument is a historic monument located at Ticonderoga in Essex County, New York. It was built in 1924 and is a bronze sculpture on a tiered granite base. The lower part of the sculpture is composed of four life-sized figures of a Native American, a Frenchman, a Scottish soldier, and an American. They symbolize the four groups whose military exploits are part of Ticonderoga's past. The second part is the artist Charles Keck's (1875–1951) interpretation of Liberty.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "57645301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57645301", "title": "List of former communist states and socialist states", "text": "List of former communist states and socialist states\n\nThis is a list of former Communist and Socialist states. For a list of Socialist states use the page: List of socialist states\n\n\nThere are multi-party states with Communist parties leading the government. Such states are not considered to be Communist states as the countries themselves allow for multiple parties and do not provide a constitutional role for their Communist parties.\n\n\nThese are short-lived political entities that emerged during wars or revolutions (mostly in the aftermath of World War I) and declared themselves \"socialist\" under some interpretation of the term, but did not survive long enough to create a stable government or achieve international recognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9429032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9429032", "title": "List of labor slogans", "text": "List of labor slogans\n\nThis is a list of slogans used by organized labor, or by workers who are attempting to organize.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824153", "title": "Lucy Smith", "text": "Lucy Smith\n\nLucy Caroline Smith (born Dahl; 12 October 1934 – 27 August 2013) was a Norwegian legal scholar and professor of law at the University of Oslo. She served as rector of the university from 1993 to 1998.\n\nShe was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. In 1987 she became Norway's first female (full) professor of law. She has published the book \"Foreldremyndighet og barnerett\". Smith was a member of the U.N. Committee on the Rights of the Child. In the 1980s, Smith became well-known to the public as the principal judge of the popular quiz show \"Kvitt eller dobbelt\".\n\nSmith was the wife of Carsten Smith, the former Chief Justice of Norway's Supreme Court. Before that appointment, he was also a law professor at the University of Oslo.\n\nAfter attending Oslo Cathedral School, Smith studied law, graduating in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "25477186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25477186", "title": "Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith", "text": "Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith\n\nThe Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith was a statement of core principles laid down by South African political leaders Mangosuthu Buthelezi and Harry Schwarz on 4 January 1974. It was signed in Mahlabatini, KwaZulu-Natal, hence its name. Its purpose was to provide a blueprint for government of South Africa by consent and racial peace in a multi-racial society, stressing opportunity for all, consultation, the federal concept, and a Bill of Rights. It also first affirmed that political change must take place though non-violent means. It was the first agreement in apartheid South Africa by acknowledged black and white political leaders that subscribed to such principles. Final negotiations, which embodied many of the Declaration's principles, took place between President F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela in the early 1990s.\n\nOn 4 January 1974, Harry Schwarz, Transvaal leader of the official opposition United Party, met and had discussions with Gatsha (later Mangosuthu) Buthelezi, Chief Executive Councillor of the black homeland of KwaZulu. They jointly issued a document, which stated that \"the situation of South Africa in the world scene as well as internal community relations requires, in our view, an acceptance of certain fundamental concepts for the economic, social and constitutional development of our country\". It was intended for these core concepts to be the foundations for negotiations involving all in South Africa. Both leaders were acting in personal capacities.\n\nThe declaration's purpose was to provide a blueprint for government of South Africa for racial peace in South Africa. On the basis of five principles, the declaration declared a \"faith in a South Africa offering equal opportunities, happiness, security, and peace for all its peoples.\" It called for negotiations involving all peoples, in order to draw up constitutional proposals stressing opportunity for all with a Bill of Rights to safeguard these rights.It suggested that the federal concept was the appropriate framework for such changes to take place. It also first affirmed that political change must take place through non-violent means. The concept of a non-discriminatory society had been outlined in the 'Act of Dedication' of 1973 that Schwarz had written, while Leader of the Opposition in the Transvaal. Schwarz had called for the Transvaal and South Africa to adopt and subscribe to the act. While the United Party Transvaal caucus unanimously adopted the initiative, the National Party refused for it to come to debate. The principles of the act were adopted at the 1973 National United Party Congress.\n\nThe declaration was the first of its kind, in that it laid down the concept of a peaceful solution to South Africa's problems at a time when neither the National Party nor the African National Congress was interested in peaceful solutions or dialogue. The declaration took place during a period when virtually no formal or informal political contact existed between black and white groups. Political figures such as Alan Paton praised the declaration. The agreement was heralded by many as a breakthrough in race relations in South Africa. The declaration drew much media interest both inside and outside South Africa.\n\nShortly after the declaration was issued, several chief ministers of the black homelands, including Cedric Phatudi (Lebowa), Lucas Mangope (Bophuthatswana) and Hudson Nisanwisi (Gazankulu), met in Cape Town. The leaders announced to the press that they fully supported the declaration.\n\nIn February 1974, Prime Minister of Swaziland Makhosini Dlamini praised the declaration as inspiration to South Africans \"across the color line\" and as an example of effectiveness in working for his people within the framework of the law.\n\nIn March 1974 Chief Phatudi, Harry Schwarz and M. I. Mitchell (United Party MP), had discussions at Sheshego. They issued a joint statement, endorsing the principles embodied in the Mahlabatini Declaration. It also stated that all South Africans must be united to meet any external threats, subversion, or terrorism, and that the best way of uniting the people to meet such threats was to give them a real stake in the society which they were asked to defend.\n\nDays after the declaration, Die Vaderland, an ardent Nationalist Afrikaans newspaper, mocked Schwarz and Buthelezi calling them the \"heroes of Mahlabatini\".\n\nOn 4 February 1974, Prime Minister B. J. Vorster of the National Party commented on the declaration during a speech to Parliament in which he announced a general election for 24 April 1974. Speaking of the Declaration, Vorster said:\n\n\"As far as Chief Buthelezi is concerned, I want to say at once that he is only one of eight chiefs. I regret the fact, because it could easily be misunderstood in the outside world, that some people and some newspapers adopt the attitude that he is the only Bantu leader in South Africa. As far as I am concerned, I want to make it very clear that I have respect for him in his capacity as leader of the Zulus. However, I have as much respect for the other leaders of the other Bantu peoples in South Africa. I want to go further - I am not doing him any injustice when I say this - by pointing out that some of the other Bantu leaders probably have more experience of public life than Chief Buthelezi has. Furthermore, I think that some of them are probably more careful when making statements.\"\n\nDespite considerable support from black leaders and the English speaking press, the declaration drew much criticism from the establishment of Harry Schwarz's United Party. Schwarz, who had recently deposed the more conservative Marais Styen from the leadership of the United Party in the Transvaal, was a controversial figure in the party for his outspoken views against apartheid and was known as the leader of the liberal 'Young Turks' within the party.\n\nIn 1975 divisions over the Mahlabatini Declaration manifested in several 'Young Turks', including Schwarz, being expelled from the party, by leader Sir de Villiers Graaff. The members who were either expelled or resigned, formed the Reform Party, with Schwarz as its leader. In July 1975, the Reform Party merged with the Progressive Party, which eventually became the Progressive Federal Party in 1977. This proved to realign opposition politics in South Africa, with the demise of the United Party as the PFP became the main opposition party, following the 1977 general election.\n\nThe situation of South Africa in the world scene as well as internal community relations requires in our view an acceptance of certain fundamental concept for the economic social and constitutional development of our country.\n\nWe respectfully record five principles on the basis of which we believe all our people can co-operate.\n\n1. Change in South Africa must be brought about by peaceful means.\n\n2. Opportunity must be afforded to all our people for material and educational advancement. The economy must be available to serve the needs of all able and willing to contribute, and the wealth, labour and expertise of our country should be harnessed to provide job and entrepreneurial opportunity for all groups.\n\n3. Constitutions, blue prints and plans for the future should not be made by only some of the people for all others, they must be made with people. Consultation and dialogue lead to government by consent and with this in mind and as a first step a consultative council representative of all groups in South Africa should be constituted at the earliest opportunity.\n\n4. The federal concept appears to provide the best framework on which to seek a constitutional solution for a South Africa free from domination by any group over others and ensuring the security of all its people.\n\n5. Any constitutional proposals for South Africans must:\n\n(i) Safeguard the identity and culture of the various groups constituting the people of South Africa.\n\n(ii) Include a bill of rights to safeguard the fundamental concepts of natural justice.\n\nOn the basis of these principles we declare our faith in a South Africa of equal opportunity, happiness, security and people for all its people.\n\n"}
{"id": "5765744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5765744", "title": "Mariela Castro", "text": "Mariela Castro\n\nMariela Castro Espín (born 27 July 1962) is the director of the Cuban National Center for Sex Education in Havana and an activist for LGBT rights in Cuba. She is the daughter of former Cuban president Raúl Castro and feminist and revolutionary Vilma Espín, and the niece of former president Fidel Castro.\n\nMariela Castro is the daughter of former Cuban president Raúl Castro and feminist and revolutionary Vilma Espín, and the niece of former president Fidel Castro. She has a brother, Alejandro Castro Espín.\n\nHer group campaigns for effective AIDS prevention as well as recognition and acceptance of LGBT human rights. In 2005, she proposed a project to allow transgender people to receive sex reassignment surgery and change their legal gender. The measure became law in June 2008 which allows sex change surgery for Cubans without charge.\n\nMariela Castro is president of the Cuban Multidisciplinary Centre for the Study of Sexuality, president of the National Commission for Treatment of Disturbances of Gender Identity, member of the Direct Action Group for Preventing, Confronting, and Combatting AIDS, and an executive member of the World Association for Sexual Health (WAS). She is also the director of the journal \"Sexología y Sociedad\", a magazine of Sexology edited by her own National Center for Sex Education (CENESEX).\n\nCastro has published 13 scholarly articles and nine books.\n\nCastro is a sitting member of the National Assembly of People's Power. When the assembly voted in 2014 to ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in employment, Castro opposed the legislation because it did not also include protection on the basis of gender identity, and became possibly the first legislator in the body's history ever to vote against a piece of legislation.\n\nCastro is married to Italian Paolo Titolo, General Manager of Amorim Negócios Internacionais, S.A. in Cuba, and has two children with him, and a daughter from her previous marriage with the Chilean former FPMR member Juan Gutiérrez Fischmann.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1413472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1413472", "title": "Ministry of Defense (Japan)", "text": "Ministry of Defense (Japan)\n\nThe is a cabinet-level ministry of the Government of Japan charged with preserving the peace and independence of Japan and maintaining national security with the Japan Self-Defense Forces.\n\nIt is headquartered in Ichigaya, Shinjuku, Tokyo, and is the largest organ of the Japanese government. Headed by the Minister of Defense, the ministry is required by Article 66 of the Constitution of Japan to be completely subordinate to civilian authority.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, the Cabinet of Japan endorsed a bill elevating the under the Cabinet Office to full-fledged cabinet-level Ministry of Defense (防衛省). 53 years after the establishment of the Defense Agency in 1954, the Ministry of Defense was founded on January 9, 2007.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense is headquartered in Ichigaya, Shinjuku, Tokyo, on a site which housed the Imperial Japanese Army Academy (陸軍士官学校), built in 1874, the GHQ of the Imperial Japanese Army before and during World War II, and of the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force following the war. The Japanese Defense Agency was established on July 1, 1954. Until May 2000, it was based in Akasaka (currently occupied by Tokyo Midtown).\n\nThe Ministry of Defense is required by Article 66 of the Constitution to be completely subordinate to civilian authority. Its head has the rank of Minister of State. He is assisted by two vice ministers, one parliamentary and one administrative; and the internal bureaus. The highest figure in the command structure is the Prime Minister, who is responsible directly to the National Diet. In a national emergency, the Prime Minister is authorized to order the various components of the Japan Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) into action, subject to the consent of the Diet. In times of extreme emergency, that approval might be obtained after the fact.\n\nIn July 1986, the Security Council was established. The council is presided over by the Prime Minister and includes the Ministers of State specified in advance in Article 9 of the Cabinet Law; the Foreign Minister, the Finance Minister, the Chief Cabinet Secretary, the chairman of the National Public Safety Commission, the director general of the Defense Agency, and the director general of the Economic Planning Agency. The chairman of the Security Council also can invite the chairman of the Joint Staff Council and any other relevant state minister or official to attend. Replacing the National Defense Council, which had acted as an advisory group on defense-related matters since 1956, the Security Council addresses a wider range of military and nonmilitary security issues, including basic national defense policy, the National Defense Program Outline, the outline on coordinating industrial production and other matters related to the National Defense Program Outline, and decisions on diplomatic initiatives and defense operations.\n\nThe internal bureaus, especially the Bureau of Defense Policy, Bureau of Finance, and the Bureau of Equipment, are often headed by officials from other ministries and are the main centers of power and instruments of civilian control in the Defense Agency. The Bureau of Defense Policy is responsible for drafting defense policy and programs, for determining day-to-day operational activities, and for information gathering and analysis in the JSDF. The Bureau of Finance is instrumental in developing the Defense Agency budget and in establishing spending priorities for the Defense Agency and the JSDF. The Bureau of Equipment, organized into subunits for each of the military services, focuses on equipment procurement. Before any major purchase is recommended to the Diet by the Defense Agency, it has to be reviewed by each of these bureaus.\n\nBelow these civilian groups are the uniformed JSDF personals. Its senior officer is the chairman of the Joint Staff Council, a body that included the chiefs of staff of the ground, maritime, and air arms of the Self-Defense Forces. Its principal functions are to advise the director general and to plan and execute joint exercises. The three branches maintain staff offices to manage operations in their branches. Although rank establishes echelons of command within the JSDF, all three branches are immediately responsible to the director general and are coequal bodies with the Joint Staff Council and the three staff offices.\n\nThis structure precludes the concentration of power of the pre-1945 Imperial General Staff (and the Supreme War Council) general staffs, but it impedes interservice coordination, and there are few formal exchanges among commanders from various branches. Moreover, some dissatisfaction has been reported by highranking officers who feel they have little power compared with younger civilian officials in the bureaus, who most often have no military experience. To rectify this situation and to increase input by the JSDF in policy matters, in the early 1980s the Joint Staff Council was enlarged to establish better lines of communication between the internal bureaus and the three staff offices. A computerized central command and communications system and various tactical command and communications systems were established, linking service and field headquarters with general headquarters at the Defense Agency and with one another.\n\nIn the 1980s, efforts were also under way to facilitate a clear and efficient command policy in the event of a crisis. The government stood by the principle that military action was permitted only under civilian control, but in recognition that delay for consultation might prove dangerous, ships of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) began to be armed with live torpedoes, and fighter-interceptors were allowed to carry missiles at all times. Although aircraft had long been allowed to force down intruders without waiting for permission from the prime minister, ships were still required to receive specific orders before interdicting invading vessels. The Defense Agency had recommended drawing up more complete guidelines to clarify what action JSDF combat units could take in emergencies.\n\nCooperation between the JSDF and other civilian agencies in contingency planning is limited. No plans exist to ensure the support of civilian aircraft and merchant fleets in times of crisis, even though the JSDF transportation capabilities are generally judged inadequate. In 1990 legislation was being studied to provide the JSDF with the ability to respond in emergency situations not specifically covered by Article 76 of the Self-Defense Forces Law.\n\nJSDF training includes instilling a sense of mission. Personnel are provided with the scientific and technical education to operate and maintain modern equipment and with the physical training necessary to accomplish their missions.\n\nModern equipment is gradually replacing obsolescent materiel in the JSDF. In 1987, the Defense Agency replaced its communications system (which formerly had relied on telephone lines of the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone) with a microwave network incorporating a three-dimensional transmission system using a communications satellite. Despite efforts to increase stocks, however, supplies of ammunition and maintenance and repair parts in 1990 remained at less than satisfactory levels.\n\nThe National Diet had passed into law the change of status of the Defense Agency to a Cabinet-level Ministry of Defense. The Diet's House of Councillors had voted by a majority, including the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, to amend the change. Bills on transition to the Ministry of Defense became laws on December 15, 2006. Only the Japanese Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party opposed the change, claiming that it can lead Japan into a future war. The MOD was formally established on January 9, 2007, taking its present name and status as a ministry. Subsequently, its Defense Facilities Administrative Agency was dissolved and integrated into the MOD.\n\nIn July 2007, the MOD building was attacked by a 21-year-old right-wing activist, who threw a Molotov cocktail in the direction of the building, after forcing his way through the main gate.\n\nThe Ministers in the Ministry of Defense are as follows:\n\nThe Senior Advisers to the Minister of Defense are senior policy advisers to the Minister of Defense.\n\nThe Special Advisers to the Minister of Defense are special policy advisers to the Minister of Defense.\n\nThe Administrative Vice-Minister of Defense, the senior civil-servant at the Ministry of Defense, has the role of coordinating the affairs of the Ministry and of supervising the Ministry's bureaus and organs.\n\nThe Chief of Staff, Joint Staff is the highest-ranking military officer of the Japan Self-Defense Forces, and the senior military adviser to the Minister of Defense and the Government. He is supported by the Vice Chief of Staff, Joint Staff and by the chiefs of staff of the three service branches of the Self-Defense Forces. He is appointed by the Minister of Defense, approved by the Cabinet.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense includes a number of organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47906103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47906103", "title": "Moro Resistance and Liberation Organization", "text": "Moro Resistance and Liberation Organization\n\nThe Moro Resistance and Liberation Organization (abbreviated as MRLO) is an active armed secessionist group participating in the Moro conflict. It was established by the National Democratic Front (NDF) as one of its Moro subdivisions, and was the 16th organization created by the NDF to fight under its leadership. The group has openly and consistently condemned the Philippine government's military operations in Mindanao, accusing them of violence against Moro civilians.\n"}
{"id": "5194433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194433", "title": "MySociety", "text": "MySociety\n\nmySociety is an e-democracy project of the UK-based registered charity named UK Citizens Online Democracy. It began as a UK-focused organisation with the aim of making online democracy tools for UK citizens. However, as those tools were open source, the code could be and soon was redeployed in other countries.\n\nmySociety’s more recent mission has been to simplify and internationalise its code to make it easier for people all over the world to run citizen-empowering websites. Additionally, through the Poplus project, it hopes to encourage others to share open source code that will minimise the amount of duplication in civic tech coding.\n\nLike many non-profits, mySociety sustains itself with a mixture of grant funding and commercial work, providing software and development services to local government and other organisations.\n\nmySociety was founded by Tom Steinberg in September 2003, and started activity after receiving a £250,000 grant in September 2004. Steinberg says that it was inspired by a collaboration with his then-flatmate James Crabtree which spawned Crabtree's article \"Civic hacking: a new agenda for e-democracy\".\n\nIn March 2015, Steinberg announced his decision to stand down as the director of mySociety. In July of that year, Mark Cridge became the organisation’s new CEO.\n\n\nPoplus is an international federation of organisations who benefit through the sharing of civic code and online technologies. It was set up in April 2014 by mySociety in collaboration with Chilean e-democracy organisation Fundación Ciudadano Inteligente.\n\nPoplus encourages the development of free, open source civic 'blocks' of software, which it terms 'Components'. These are intended to save time for anyone making one of the classic civic tech tools for parliamentary monitoring, accountability, transparency, et cetera.\n\nIn 2014 Nominet awarded Poplus a place in the Nominet Trust 100\n\nThe following Components were developed by mySociety. Those developed by other organisations may be seen on the Poplus website.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31046294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31046294", "title": "Natal Legislative Assembly Bill", "text": "Natal Legislative Assembly Bill\n\nThe Natives Legislative Assembly Bill of 1894, formed part of the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa. \n\nThis legislation sought to deprive Indians in Natal of the parliamentary vote. The bill was opposed by Mahatma Gandhi of India, who submitted a petition signed by 10,000 Indians to the Natal Government. Though unsuccessful to prevent the legislation from being passed eventually it is believed that this bill led to Gandhi establishing the Natal Indian Congress to protect the rights of Indians in South Africa. This created awareness of the racial discrimination towards South Africa Indians around the world.\n\nAs a consequence of legislation following this bill, the Indians living in the Natal region were removed of their rights to vote in the region.\n"}
{"id": "11251777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11251777", "title": "Offshore survey", "text": "Offshore survey\n\nOffshore survey is a specific discipline of hydrographic survey primarily concerned with the description of the condition of the seabed and the condition of the subsea oilfield infrastructure that interacts with it.\n"}
{"id": "1649112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649112", "title": "Pertjajah Luhur", "text": "Pertjajah Luhur\n\nThe Pertjajah Luhur (PL) is a Javanese political party in Suriname. At the last legislative elections (25 May 2010), the party was part of the People's Alliance for Progress that won 13.0% of the popular vote and six out of 51 seats in the National Assembly. Out of these six seats, all went to the PL. Paul Somohardjo is the leader of the party.\n\nPertjajah Luhur traces its origins to the \"Pendawa Lima\" party founded in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "24925609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24925609", "title": "Purge of the Red Army in 1941", "text": "Purge of the Red Army in 1941\n\nBetween October 1940 and February 1942, in spite of the ongoing German attack on the Soviet Union in June 1941, the Red Army, in particular the Soviet Air Force, as well as Soviet military-related industries were subjected to purges by Stalin. \n\nThe Great Purge ended in 1939. In October 1940 the NKVD (People's Commissariat of Internal Affairs), under its new chief Lavrenty Beria, started a new purge that initially hit the People's Commissariat of Ammunition, People's Commissariat of Aviation Industry, and People's Commissariat of Armaments. High-level officials admitted guilt, typically under torture, then testified against others. Victims were arrested on fabricated charges of anti-Soviet activity, sabotage, and spying. The wave of arrests in the military-related industries continued well into 1941.\n\nIn April–May 1941, a Politburo inquiry into the high accident rate in the Air Force led to the dismissal of several commanders, including the head of the Air Force, Lieutenant General Pavel Rychagov. In May, a German Junkers Ju 52 landed in Moscow, undetected by the ADF beforehand, leading to massive arrests among the Air Force leadership. The NKVD soon focused attention on them and began investigating an alleged anti-Soviet conspiracy of German spies in the military, centered around the Air Force and linked to the conspiracies of 1937–1938. Suspects were transferred in early June from the custody of the Military Counterintelligence to the NKVD. Further arrests continued well after the German attack on the Soviet Union, which started on June 22, 1941.\n\n\nDuring the first months of the war, scores of commanders, most notably General Dmitry Pavlov, were made scapegoats for failures. Pavlov was arrested and executed after his forces were heavily defeated in the early days of the campaign. Only two of the accused were spared: People's Commissar of Armaments Boris Vannikov (released in July) and Deputy People's Commissar of Defense General Kirill Meretskov (released in September). The latter had admitted guilt, under torture.\n\nAbout 300 commanders, including Lieutenant General Nikolay Klich, Lieutenant General Robert Klyavinsh, and Major General Sergey Chernykh, were executed on October 16, 1941, during the Battle of Moscow. Others were sent to Kuybyshev, provisional capital of the Soviet Union, on October 17. On October 28 twenty were summarily shot near Kuybyshev on Lavrentiy Beria's personal order, including Colonel Generals Alexander Loktionov and Grigory Shtern, Lieutenant Generals Fyodor Arzhenukhin, Ivan Proskurov, Yakov Smushkevich, and Pavel Rychagov with his wife.\n\nIn November Beria successfully lobbied Stalin to simplify the procedure for carrying out death sentences issued by local military courts so that they would no longer require approval of the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court and Politburo for the first time since the end of the Great Purge. The right to issue extrajudicial death sentences was granted to the Special Council of the NKVD. With the approval of Stalin, 46 persons, including 17 generals, among them Lieutenant Generals Pyotr Pumpur, Pavel Alekseyev, Konstantin Gusev, Yevgeny Ptukhin, Nikolai Trubetskoy, Pyotr Klyonov, Ivan Selivanov, Major General Ernst Schacht, and People's Commissar of Ammunition Ivan Sergeyev, were sentenced to death by the Special Council. They were executed on the Day of the Red Army, February 23, 1942.\n\nOn February 4, 1942, Beria and his ally Georgy Malenkov, both members of the State Defense Committee, were assigned to supervise production of aircraft, armaments, and ammunition.\n\nMany victims were exonerated posthumously during de-Stalinization in the 1950s–1960s. In December 1953 a special secret session of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union, itself without due process, found Beria guilty of terrorism for the extrajudicial executions of October 1941 and other crimes, and sentenced him to death.\n\n"}
{"id": "12035134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12035134", "title": "Ratniks", "text": "Ratniks\n\nThe Ratniks (\"Ратник\"), or Warriors for the Advancement of the Bulgarian National Spirit, were members of a far-right Bulgarian nationalist organization founded in 1936. Its ideas were close to those of Germany's Nazis, including antisemitism and paramilitarism, but also loyalty to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The Ratniks (\"ratnitsi\") wore red uniforms in outright competition with the communists for the hearts and minds of the Bulgarian youth, and also badges bearing the Bogar: a Bulgarian sun cross.\n\nDespite decreeing their loyalty to the Monarchy and King Boris III of Bulgaria he officially dissolved the organisation in April 1939. The ban however was not enforced and they remained in existence. It was soon after the ban that they carried out one of their more notorious acts, the so-called \"Bulgarian Kristallnacht\" when, on September 20, 1939, the Ratniks marched in Sofia throwing stones at the Jewish shops. Police did not intervene and some shop windows were smashed although ultimately it proved to have much less impact than the German version and was widely condemned by most politicians. Alexander Belev, a leading member of the group, later claimed that the attack had been his idea and that he had personally led the mob.\n\nWith the coming of the Red Army and the Bolsheviks into Bulgaria on September 9, 1944, the Ratniks disappeared from the Bulgarian scene. Many of the leaders became members of the Bulgarian national government abroad, some of the young Ratniks become volunteers in the Wehrmacht, while others chose to stay in Bulgaria and fight against the Communists.\n"}
{"id": "56614374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56614374", "title": "Rethinking Economics", "text": "Rethinking Economics\n\nRethinking Economics is a network of students and academic scholars in several countries that promotes pluralism in economics. It is part of the broader International Student Initiative for Pluralist Economics and has groups in the United Kingdom, Italy, the Netherlands, India, the US and many more countries. The goal of the movement is to open up the discipline to different schools of thought in economics other than neoclassical economics and to other disciplines in the social sciences. Another aim is to make economics more accessible to the broader public. \n\nIn 2011, the Bank of England organized a conference ‘Are Economics Graduates Fit for Purpose?’ which although widely discussed did not lead to substantive changes in the way economics is taught in many universities. Subsequently, a group of Manchester economics students who were dissatisfied with the inertia of the economics discipline after the Great Recession founded the Post-Crash Economics Society. \n\nThe group campaigns for multiple changes in the research and teaching of economics as well as for a different connection between economics and the public. Specifically, Rethinking Economics demands more real-world applicability of the contents in economics degrees. Moreover, they want to show that economic approaches are contested instead of being akin to physics-like laws, which makes it necessary to introduce students to a variety of approaches in orthodox and heterodox economics as well as equipping them with tools to critically evaluate these approaches. The campaign's goal is therefore not to displace Neoclassical economics but instead to let other approaches join the ranks in economics curricula and research. Another aim of the group is to make economic knowledge more widely available and breaking economists' monopoly of such knowledge\n\nThe networks in the various countries are actively campaigning for changes in the curriculum of economics degrees. This includes lobbying with economics departments at universities, organizing public events and providing material to students and teachers in economics. The British Rethinking Economics group has to date published two books on the subject. In The Econocracy, a team of students link the dominance of neoclassical economics to an erosion of a wider democratic discussion about how the economy should be seen and organized. A second book called provides an overview of different schools of thought in economics that are rarely included in introductory textbooks of economics. It includes chapters on several heterodox schools of thought written by leading academics in the field.\n\nThe Dutch branch of the organization has conducted an extensive curriculum review of undergraduate economics degrees in the Netherlands. Courses were evaluated according to different criteria such as how many different methods and schools of thought are taught, how much critical thinking is fostered and the real-world relevance of the courses.\n\nBoth the Bank of England and the Institute for New Economic Thinking have collaborated with the movement in the past.\n\nThe movement has received coverage by newspapers such as the Financial Times and endorsements by various public figures. Cambridge economist Ha-Joon Chang praised their newest book as a 'highly relevant and enlightening contribution to a debate that will shape the future of the world economy as well as the way in which economics is taught and debated'. Chief economics commentator of the Financial Times Martin Wolf wrote the foreword to the book and welcomed the initiative.\n"}
{"id": "39741033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39741033", "title": "Tempora", "text": "Tempora\n\nTempora is the codeword for a formerly secret computer system that is used by the British Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). This system is used to buffer most Internet communications that are extracted from fibre-optic cables, so these can be processed and searched at a later time. It was tested since 2008 and became operational in the autumn of 2011.\n\nTempora uses intercepts on the fibre-optic cables that serve as the backbone of the Internet to gain access to large amounts of Internet users' personal data, without any individual suspicion or targeting. The intercepts are placed in the United Kingdom and overseas, with the knowledge of companies owning either the cables or landing stations.\n\nThe existence of Tempora was revealed by Edward Snowden, a former American intelligence contractor who leaked information about the program to former \"Guardian\" journalist Glenn Greenwald in May 2013 as part of his revelations of government-sponsored mass surveillance programs. Documents Snowden acquired claimed that data collected by the Tempora program is shared with the National Security Agency of the United States.\n\nAccording to Edward Snowden, Tempora has two principal components called \"Mastering the Internet\" (MTI) and \"Global Telecoms Exploitation\" (GTE). He claimed that each is intended to collate online and telephone traffic. This however contradicts two original documents, which say that Tempora is only for Internet traffic, just like the XKeyscore system of the NSA, components of which are incorporated in Tempora.\n\nIt is alleged that GCHQ produces larger amounts of metadata than NSA. By May 2012, 300 GCHQ analysts and 250 NSA analysts had been assigned to sort data.\n\n\"The Guardian\" claims that no distinction is made in the gathering of data between public citizens and targeted suspects. Tempora is said to include recordings of telephone calls, the content of email messages, Facebook entries and the personal Internet history of users. Snowden said of Tempora that \"It's not just a U.S. problem. The U.K. has a huge dog in this fight...They [GCHQ] are worse than the U.S.\"\n\nClaims exist that Tempora was possible only by way of secret agreements with commercial companies, described in Snowden's leaked documents as \"intercept partners\". Some companies are alleged to have been paid for their co-operation. Snowden also alleged that GCHQ staff were urged to disguise the origin of material in their reports for fear that the role of the companies as intercept partners would cause \"high-level political fallout\". The companies are forbidden to reveal the existence of warrants compelling them to allow GCHQ access to the cables. If the companies fail to comply they can be compelled to do so.\n\nLawyers for GCHQ said it would be impossible to list the total number of people targeted by Tempora because \"this would be an infinite list which we couldn't manage\".\n\nGCHQ set up a three-year trial at the GCHQ Bude in Cornwall. GCHQ had probes attached to more than 201 Internet links by Summer 2011; each probe carried 10 gigabits of data a second. NSA analysts were brought into the trials, and Tempora was launched in Autumn 2011, with data shared with the NSA. Ongoing technical work is expanding GCHQ's capacity to collect data from new super cables that carry data at 100 gigabits a second. The data is preserved for three days while metadata is kept for thirty days.\n\nTEMPORA comprises different components, like the actual access points to fiber-optic cables, a sanitisation program codenamed POKERFACE, the XKEYSCORE system developed by NSA, and a Massive Volume Reduction (MVR) capability.\n\nIn May 2012, GCHQ had TEMPORA systems installed at the following locations:\n\nUK Defence officials issued a confidential DA-Notice to the BBC and other media asking the media to refrain from running further stories related to surveillance leaks including US PRISM program and the British involvement therein.\n\nThe US Army has restricted its employees' access to the \"Guardian\" website since the beginning of the NSA leaks of PRISM and Tempora \"in order to prevent an unauthorized disclosure of classified information.\"\n\nGerman Federal Minister of Justice Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger tweeted that she considered the program an \"Alptraum\" (\"nightmare\") and demanded that European institutions investigate the matter.\n\nJan Philipp Albrecht, German Member of the European Parliament and spokesperson for Justice and Home Affairs of the Greens/EFA parliamentary group, called for an infringement procedure against the United Kingdom for having violated its obligations relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data under Article 16 of the Treaties of the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1070051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070051", "title": "United Order", "text": "United Order\n\nIn the Latter Day Saint movement, the United Order (also called the United Order of Enoch) was one of several 19th-century church collectivist programs. Early versions of the Order beginning in 1831 attempted to fully implement the law of consecration, a form of Christian communalism, modeled after the New Testament church which had \"all things in common\". These early versions ended after a few years. Later versions within Mormonism, primarily in the Utah Territory, implemented less-ambitious cooperative programs, many of which were very successful. The Order's full name invoked the city of Enoch, described in Latter Day Saint scripture as having such a virtuous and pure-hearted people that God had taken it to heaven.\nThe United Order established egalitarian communities designed to achieve income equality, eliminate poverty, and increase group self-sufficiency. The movement had much in common with other communalist utopian societies formed in the United States and Europe during the Second Great Awakening which sought to govern aspects of people's lives through precepts of faith and community organization. However, the Latter Day Saint United Order was more family- and property-oriented than the utopian experiments at Brook Farm and the Oneida Community.\n\nMembership in the United Order was voluntary, although during a period in the 1830s, it was a requirement of continued church membership. Participants would deed (consecrate) all their property to the United Order, which would in turn deed back an \"inheritance\" (or \"stewardship\") which allowed members to control the property; private property was not eradicated but was rather a fundamental principle of this system. At the end of each year, any excess that the family produced from their stewardship was voluntarily given back to the Order. The Order in each community was operated by the local bishop.\n\nThe United Order is not practiced within mainstream Mormonism today; however, a number of groups of Mormon fundamentalists, such as the Apostolic United Brethren and Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS Church), have revived the practice. The United Order was also practiced by the liberal Mormon sect called the United Order Family of Christ and the Cutlerite sect the Church of Jesus Christ.\n\nJoseph Smith learned of a group of about 50 people known as \"the family\" living on Isaac Morley's farm near Kirtland, Ohio, who had established a cooperative venture based on statements in the Book of Acts. Members of \"The Morley family\" were originally followers of Sidney Rigdon, a minister associated with the Restoration Movement who later converted to Mormonism. Many of these communalists also joined the new church and several, including Isaac Morley, served in leadership positions. Levi Hancock records an early event wherein a \"family member\" stole his pocket watch and sold it, claiming it was \"all in the family.\"\n\nSmith was troubled because of the number of members joining the church in poverty in Kirtland, Ohio. Revenue was needed for the church to publish books and tracts. At this time, Smith and Rigdon were both in economic distress. Smith and his wife Emma lived on the Morley farm for a period of time.\n\nOn February 4, 1831, Smith said he had received a revelation calling Edward Partridge to be the first bishop of the church. Five days later, on February 9, 1831, Smith described a second revelation detailing the law of consecration.\n\nSmith said he had received a revelation directing the Latter Day Saints to impart of their land and money to the church. Partridge assigned the incoming saints from New York lots according to another revelation. Smith directed Colesville immigrants to settle in Thompson, Ohio, a few miles east of Kirtland, on a farm owned by Leman Copley. Saints from Seneca County were assigned to the Morley farm.\n\nPartridge attempted to implement the full law of consecration in Thompson; however, disagreements broke out and he was unsuccessful. Shortly after, Smith announced a revelation directing Newel Knight to lead the saints on the Copley farm to settle in Missouri.\n\nOriginally, the United Order was intended to be \"an everlasting order for the benefit of my church, and for the salvation of men until I come\". In practice, however, the Order was relatively short-lived during the Smith's life.\n\nFrom 1855 to 1858, members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) once again considered living under the United Order. During this period, under the leadership of Brigham Young, church members were instructed to prepare deeds of consecration, but these deeds were never acted upon perhaps due to the community disruption caused by the Utah War.\n\nIt was not until 1874 that Young initiated the United Order of Enoch, beginning in St. George, Utah, on February 9, 1874. There were a number of differences between the United Order of Enoch and United Order communities established years earlier by Joseph Smith. Under Young's leadership, producers would generally deed their property to the Order, and all members of the Order would share the cooperative's net income, often divided into shares based on the amount of property originally contributed. Sometimes, the members of the Order would receive wages for their work on the communal property.\n\nThe cooperative plan was used in at least 200 Mormon communities, most of them in rural areas outlying the central Mormon settlements near the Great Salt Lake. Most of the communities held out for only two or three years before returning to a more standard economic system. One of the last United Order corporations established the new community of Bunkerville, Nevada, in 1877. In 1880, the Bunkerville cooperative dissolved under pressure from limited water and a lack of individual dedication and initiative.\n\nLike the United Order established by Smith, Young's experiment with the United Order was short-lived. By the time of Young's death in 1877, most of his United Orders had failed. By the end of the 19th century, the Orders were essentially extinct. Historian Andrew Karl Larson pointed out that the failure of these ventures are rooted in the frailties of human nature:\n\nSome leaders and members of the LDS Church believe that the United Order will be reestablished some time in the future. Many leaders have taught that the church's present system of welfare and humanitarian aid is a predecessor or stepping stone to the renewed practice of the United Order in the future.\n\nMany United Order communities were set up amongst Mormon towns beginning in 1874. One in particular was the United Order of Kanab, which was a communal experiment initiated by Brigham Young. Kanab was established in 1870. That year, John R. Young and the local bishop, Levi Stewart, began colonization of this area and twelve families followed to begin this endeavor. However, there was confusion as to who was the leader of this society. LDS Church authorities appointed the bishop and only they could revoke his status. But many wanted to elect John R. Young as president because he was related to LDS Church president Brigham Young. This conflict of power lasted until January 5, 1875, when Levi Stewart became the president. Eventually, Stewart resigned from his position and L. John Nuttall of Provo took his place.\n\nEventually, other families followed that were either unhappy in their own lives or were from other failing colonies. By 1874, there were 81 families and about 17 percent of the men that lived in this community practiced polygamy. The households were simple in structure and were usually two to three bedrooms. There were about three children per mother in every household and polygamous wives lived in the same home as well. Large families in all Mormon communities were regarded as a spiritual practice and the child to woman ratio in Kanab reflected that.\n\nThe main source of income for the community was by raising livestock. Most of their wealth was in livestock, vehicles, and shares of stock in corporate enterprises. The land and the improvements made up the rest of their wealth. This particular United Order was very wealthy, but within the society, there were major gaps. Everyone owned property, but some pieces of land were better than others. Eventually, Brigham Young ordered the community to diminish the financial gap that set them apart from the other communities.\n\nMany suffered hardships while living on the frontier and tended to move frequently, around the same area to escape the harsh conditions and find greater opportunities. It also made it easy to migrate since most of the wealth people had was movable. The number of families moving three or more times was below 50. Only 23 families moved four times or more and 13 moved five times or more.\n\nBy the year 1880, the United Order at Kanab had greatly decreased. Only 32 families were left out of the original 81 families that came within the first year of it being established. Many eventually migrated to Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, and Mexico; additionally, the young men tended to leave home before they were married and started families of their own.\n\nUnder the United Order, private property was not abolished. The sharing of goods, often cited as communalism, was voluntary. Members of the church who chose to participate in the United Order voluntarily deeded their properties to the church, which would then give all or a portion of it back to the original property owner as a stewardship. The \"residue,\" or property which was over and above what the owner and his family required for themselves, was used by the church to provide to the less fortunate, who would be required to pay it back either monetarily or by labor. The private property owner was not forced to participate in the Order nor was his property forcefully confiscated. Private property owners were free to join or leave the orders and were in control of their stewardship. J. Reuben Clark, a member of the First Presidency, explained:\n\nThe fundamental principle of this system was the private ownership of property. Each man owned his portion, or inheritance, or stewardship, with an absolute title, which he could alienate, or hypothecate, or otherwise treat as his own. The church did not own all of the property, and the life under the United Order was not a communal life. ... The United Order is an individualistic system, not a communal system.\n\nLorenzo Snow, a president of the LDS Church, also highlighted the United Order's preservation of individual free will:\n\nIn things that pertain to celestial glory there can be no forced operations. We must do according as the spirit of the Lord operates upon our understandings and feelings. We cannot be crowded into matters, however great might be the blessing attending such procedure. We cannot be forced into living a celestial law; we must do this ourselves, of our own free will. And whatever we do in regard to the principle of the United Order, we must do it because we desire to do it.\n\nThis United Order was an attempt to eradicate poverty and promote a sense of unity and brotherhood within Latter Day Saint communities. The LDS Church's view is that the doctrine and the various attempts at practicing it should not be seen as part of the 19th-century utopian movement in the United States, and is distinct from both Marxist communism and capitalism.\n\nLDS Church leaders in the 20th century sought to make a clear distinction between Marxist communism and the law of consecration as practiced by the United Order, teaching that the practices differed as related to the topics of free will, private property, and deity. The law of consecration and the United Order can be compared to the shared economic arrangement presented in the New Testament as practiced by 1st-century Christians in Jerusalem.\nIn the 20th century, LDS Church leaders, including David O. McKay, Harold B. Lee, Ezra Taft Benson, Marion G. Romney, and J. Reuben Clark, claimed that communism is a \"counterfeit\" version of the law of consecration. In 1942, the church issued the following statement:\n\nCommunism and all other similar isms bear no relationship whatever to the United Order. They are merely the clumsy counterfeits which Satan always devises of the Gospel plan ... The United Order leaves every man free to choose his own religion as his conscience directs. Communism destroys man's God-given free agency; the United Order glorifies it. Latter-day Saints cannot be true to their faith and lend aid, encouragement, or sympathy to any of these false philosophies. \n\nNevertheless, communal unity and equality are central tenets of the Latter Day Saint doctrine of Zion as described in , \"And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9682060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9682060", "title": "Upland Hills School", "text": "Upland Hills School\n\nUpland Hills School, founded in 1971, is an independent school community whose purpose is to educate pre-high school children. The school's aim is to discover and respect the uniqueness of every child.\n\nUpland Hills School is located in northern Oakland County on of woods and rolling meadows in Oxford, Michigan. The school is surrounded by the Upland Hills Ecological Awareness Center, Upland Hills Farm and Bald Mountain Recreation Area.\nUpland Hills School is an independent school founded (1971) by parents who were determined to co-create a school that protected, fostered, defended and nurtured the creativity and wonder of childhood. Inspired by the collective works of R. Buckminster Fuller and J. Krishnamurti the school is devoted to thinking in whole systems and developing tools for self-awareness. The curriculum of the school embraces the theory of Multiple Intelligences and uses a developmental approach pioneered by Jean Piaget, Lawrence Kohlberg, and Susanne Cook-Greuter. The school started experimenting with alternative energy in 1973 and has continued to develop an ecologically sustainable curriculum using tools and artifacts to demonstrate the effectiveness of working with nature's design.\nIn 2010 the school installed 40 PV solar panels that generate over 10 KW of electrical energy moving it a step closer to becoming a net energy school.\n\nUHS is a member of the Association of Independent Michigan Schools (AIMS) and the National Coalition of Alternative Community Schools and has affiliations with the Buckminster Fuller Institute, The Starkey Hearing Foundation, and the Independent Schools Association of the Central States (ISACS).\n\n"}
{"id": "9535942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9535942", "title": "Vrye Weekblad", "text": "Vrye Weekblad\n\nVrye Weekblad was a groundbreaking progressive, anti-apartheid Afrikaans national weekly newspaper that was launched in November 1988 and forced to close in February 1994. The paper was driven into bankruptcy by the legal costs of defending its charge that South African Police General Lothar Neethling had supplied poison to security police to kill activists. \n\n\"Vrye Weekblad\" (\"The Free Weekly\") was started as a result of frustration on the part of Afrikaner journalists who found that the mainstream Afrikaans-language and English-language media lacked the courage to take on the apartheid state in South Africa. The paper was collectively owned by the founder members, who included editor Max du Preez and journalist Jacques Pauw. The editorial staff for the first edition of February 1989 comprised Karien Norval, Du Preez, Elsabe Wessels, Chris du Plessis, Pauw, Victor Munnik, and Koos Coetzee.\n\nFrom the outset the state viewed the upstart paper as a threat. The Minister of Justice, Kobie Coetsee, raised the cost of registering the newspaper from R10 to R40,000. As the owners could not pay, the first few editions of \"Vrye Weekblad\" appeared on the street illegally, and they were taken to court. In December 1988, former state president P. W. Botha sued \"Vrye Weekblad\" for R200,000 for defamation after the newspaper had exposed his links with a Mafia gangster. The case was dropped when Botha suffered a stroke early in 1989. Later that year, seven charges under state of emergency legislation were levied against \"Vrye Weekblad\" for advertising a meeting of a banned organisation. On 17 November 1989 it published extensive confessions of Dirk Coetzee, a former commander of the Police Death Squad at Vlakplaas. The story was published worldwide but none of the mainstream South African media covered it. \n\nIn May 1990, the newspaper revealed the inner secrets of the Civil Cooperation Bureau (CCB) and described how Pieter Botes, a CCB commander, tried to kill anti-apartheid activist Albie Sachs in Maputo in 1988, and tried to undermine SWAPO in the run-up to the November 1989 elections in Namibia. In 1991, a powerful bomb wrecked the offices of \"Vrye Weekblad\". A CCB operative, Leonard Veenendal, later confessed to having planted the bomb. \n\nIn 1991 Judge Johann Kriegler ruled in favour of \"Vrye Weekblad\" in the Rand Supreme Court. But the Appeals Court overturned Kriegler's decision and ordered the paper to pay R90,000 and costs. (The ensuing legal battle cost both sides R2 million over five years and forced the paper to close). \n\nThe African National Congress (ANC) criticized journalist Jacques Pauw's report in the 17 January 1992 issue that Patrick Lekota had offered money to a right-winger to assassinate Glory \"September\" Sidebe. Sidebe was a former ANC member who worked with Vlakplaas death squads, while Lekota was then a member of the ANC's National Executive Committee.\n\nJust prior to its closure the paper was published out of an old bank building in Newtown, Johannesburg.\n\nLate in 1989, \"Vrye Weekblad\" established contact with Captain Dirk Coetzee, the commander in charge of the South African Police's secret elite unit, Section C1, who were stationed at \"Vlakplaas\", a farm southwest of Pretoria. This elite section formed part of President P.W. Botha's so-called \"Total Strategy\", and were supposed to disable opponents to Botha's apartheid regime, whenever the country's courts were unable to do so. Section C1's methods included assassination, kidnapping, poisoning and execution. Coetzee also revealed that General Lothar Neethling had supplied poison to the police, which would drug and eventually kill anti-apartheid activists. Well aware that it could have serious consequences for the newspaper, \"Vrye Weekblad\" decided not to withdraw Neethling's name from their reports.\n\nThe newspaper arranged for Coetzee to be safely taken out of South Africa and he eventually found asylum in The Netherlands. On 17 November 1989, the story about \"Vlakplaas\" broke on the front page of \"Vrye Weekblad\". The story was also used by other alternative newspapers in South Africa, although the local mainstream media preferred to ignore the story or deny its truthfulness. Across the world, however, the reports of \"Vlakplaas\" received widespread coverage.\n\nThe revelations about Section C1 prompted more revelations from other policemen and army officials about the dirty activities at \"Vlakplaas\" and other government institutions. In 1994, Colonel Eugene de Kock (who operated \"Vlakplaas\" at the time of the revelations), was given two life-sentences and an additional 212 years in prison, on charges of among other things, murder, attempted murder, culpable homicide, kidnapping, assault and corruption.\n\nAccording to Du Preez's submission to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, \"Vrye Weekblad\" revealed:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "893377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893377", "title": "Whiteway Colony", "text": "Whiteway Colony\n\nWhiteway Colony was a residential community in the Cotswolds in the parish of Miserden near Stroud, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom. The community was founded in 1898 by Tolstoyans and today has no spare land available with over sixty homes and 120 colonists. At the beginning, private property was rejected and personal property shared; however, today the colonists' homes are privately owned and sold at market value. As the colony abandoned Tolstoy's philosophy it has been regarded by many, including Mohandas Gandhi who visited in 1909, as a failed Tolstoyan experiment.\n\nThe colony was set up in 1898 by a Quaker journalist, Samuel Veale Bracher, along with other Tolstoyans. Bracher purchased along with seeds, tools, materials and provisions. The colonists then burnt the property deeds on the end of a pitchfork in a symbolic rejection of the notion of property. Aylmer Maude led the founding board of trustees for the colony.\n\nThe early settlers had utopian socialist ideals, sharing provisions and going back-to-the-land. The founding colonists numbered about eight but over time the community rose to forty with anyone welcome. However Bracher, his family and other founders left the colony soon afterwards as they became increasingly frustrated with the other residents' idleness.\n\nEarly life in the colony was spartan with some residents using a barn as shelter - piped water did not arrive until 1949 and electricity not until 1954. The site was originally open land surrounding Whiteway House but is now heavily wooded and home to a collection of mainly wooden buildings - as no one owns the land, mortgages could not be obtained so people had to build their own houses. A court ruling in 1955 established that nobody owns the legal title for the land. A communal hall was built by residents in 1924 to house social activities and a school, and a swimming pool was built in 1969. Whiteway Colony is still in existence today and houses, among others, descendants of its original settlers. Though it no longer has an explicitly anarchist character, today's residents are aware, and proud, of its origins. Traces of them run through the community still, the best examples being the continued use and maintenance of communal facilities (hall, swimming pool and playing field). In addition, the governance of the community is still done by a general meeting of its residents.\n\nOver the years residents have included immigrant anarchists, conscientious objectors and refugees from the Spanish Civil War, as well as co-operative ventures such as Protheroe's Bakery (known in the local area for the quality of its bread), the Cotswold Co-operative Handicraft guild and the Co-operative Gardening Group. For a period the anarchist newspaper \"Freedom\" was produced here by Thomas Keell.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2741861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741861", "title": "Young Workers' International", "text": "Young Workers' International\n\nYoung Workers' International (in German: \"Arbeiter-Jugend-Internationale\", in French: \"L'Internationale des Jeunesses Ouvrières\") was an international union of socialist youth organizations. It was founded in at a conference in Amsterdam May 12-May 13, 1921. It functioned as the youth wing of the remnants of the Second International. Its secretary was Erich Ollenhauer.\n\nIt published \"Die Arbeiter-Jugend-Internationale\".\n\nIn 1923, it merged into the Socialist Youth International.\n"}
{"id": "2700752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2700752", "title": "Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army", "text": "Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army\n\nZimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA) was the armed wing of the Zimbabwe African People's Union, a Marxist–Leninist political party in Rhodesia. It participated in the Rhodesian Bush War against the Rhodesian government. ZIPRA was formed during the 1960s by the nationalist leader Jason Moyo, the deputy of Joshua Nkomo.\n\nBecause ZAPU's political strategy relied more heavily on negotiations than armed force, ZIPRA developed as elaborately training both regular soldiers and guerrilla fighters, although by 1979 it had an estimated 20,000 combatants, based in camps around Lusaka, Zambia and at the front. ZIPRA's crossing points into Zimbabwe were at Feira in Zambia opposite Mashonaland East and west. For example, the operational boundary was Sipolilo where ZIPRA, Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) and Rhodesian forces clashed. ZIPRA operated alone in Mashonaland west. There was no ZANLA combatants in that area until the later stages of the war.\n\nBeside the overall political ideologies, the main differences between ZIPRA and ZANLA were that:\n\nZIPRA was in formal alliance with Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) the ANC's militant wing. ZIPRA and MK mounted a celebrated, if strategically unsuccessful, raid into Rhodesia in the mid-1960s. The incursion was stopped by Rhodesian Security Forces, working in concert with the South African Police.\n\nIn 1978 and 1979 ZIPRA downed two civilian passenger planes of Air Rhodesia, killing a total of 102 passengers and crew. Air Rhodesia Flight 825 was a scheduled flight from Kariba to Salisbury that was shot down on 3 September 1978 by ZIPRA guerrillas using an SA-7 surface-to-air missile. ZIPRA leader Joshua Nkomo publicly claimed responsibility for shooting down the Hunyani on BBC television the same evening, saying the aircraft had been used for military purposes, but denied that his men had killed survivors on the ground. Eighteen of the fifty-six passengers in the Air Rhodesia plane survived the crash, with most of these having been seated in the rear. Three crash survivors who remained at the aircraft managed to avoid being killed by running away and hiding in the bush. Five months later a second plane, Air Rhodesia Flight 827, was shot down by ZIPRA.\n\ncephas cele , member of the zipra high command was chief of staff and training\n\n"}
