{"id": "7912780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912780", "title": "1574 in art", "text": "1574 in art\n\nThe year 1574 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "47455593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47455593", "title": "1992 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1992 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1992 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3356284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3356284", "title": "Abu Mena", "text": "Abu Mena\n\nAbu Mena (also spelled \"Abu Mina\";   ) was a town, monastery complex and Christian pilgrimage centre in Late Antique Egypt, about southwest of Alexandria. Its remains were designated a World Heritage Site in 1979. There are very few standing remains, but the foundations of most major buildings, such as the great basilica, are easily discernible.\n\nRecent agricultural efforts in the area have led to a significant rise in the water table, which has caused a number of the site's buildings to collapse or become unstable. The site was added to the list of World Heritage in Danger in 2001. Authorities were forced to place sand in the bases of buildings that are most endangered in the site.\n\nMenas of Alexandria was martyred in the late 3rd or early 4th century (see Early Christianity). Various 5th-century and later accounts give slightly differing versions of his burial and the subsequent founding of his church. The essential elements are that his body was taken from Alexandria on a camel, which was led into the desert beyond Lake Mareotis. At some point, the camel refused to continue walking, despite all efforts to goad it. This was taken as a sign of divine will, and the body's attendants buried it on that spot.\n\nMost versions of the story state that the location of the tomb was then forgotten until its miraculous rediscovery by a local shepherd. From the Ethiopian Synaxarium (E.A.W. Budge, trans.):\nAnd God wished to reveal the [place of the] body of Saint Mînâs. And there was in that desert a certain shepherd, and one day a sheep which was suffering from the disease of the scab went to that place, and dipped himself in the water of the little spring which was near the place, and he rolled about in it and was healed straightway. And when the shepherd saw this thing, and understood the miracle, he marvelled exceedingly and was astonished. And afterwards he used to take some of the dust from that shrine, and mix it with water, and rub it on the sheep, and if they were ill with the scab, they were straightway healed thereby. And this he used to do at all times, and he healed all the sick who came to him by this means.\n\nWord of the shepherd's healing powers spread rapidly. The synaxarium describes Constantine I sending his sick daughter to the shepherd to be cured, and credits her with finding Menas' body, after which Constantine ordered the construction of a church at the site. (Some versions of the story replace Constantine with the late-5th century emperor Zeno, but archaeologists have dated the original foundation to the late 4th century). By the late 4th century, it was a significant pilgrimage site for Christians who sought healing and other miracles. Menas flasks are a particular type of small terracotta ampullae sold to pilgrims as containers for holy water or holy oil which are found very widely around the Western Mediterranean, dating roughly from the century and a half before the Muslim conquest. They are cheaply made but impressed with images of the saint that are of significance in the study of iconography; it is presumed they were made around the city.\n\nDuring the reign of Arcadius, the local archbishop observed that crowds were overwhelming the small church. He wrote to the eastern emperor, who ordered a major expansion of the facilities, the first of three major church expansions which would eventually take place. By the end of the Late Antique period, Abu Mena had become the leading pilgrimage site in Egypt.\n\nThe site was first excavated from 1905 to 1907. These efforts uncovered a large basilica church, an adjacent church which had probably housed the saint's remains, and Roman baths.\n\nA later, long-term series of excavations by the DAI ended in 1998. The most recent excavations uncovered a large dormitory for poor pilgrims, with separate wings for men and for women and children. A complex to the south of the great basilica was likely the residence of the \"hegoumenos\", or abbot. Excavations suggest that the great xenodocheion, a reception area for pilgrims, may originally have been a cemetery. A baptistery, adjacent to the site of the original church, appears to have gone through at least three phases of development. Also uncovered was a complex of wine presses, including underground storage rooms, which dates to the 6th and 7th centuries.\n\nThe site of Abu Mena was added to UNESCO's World Heritage in Danger list in 2001 due to the threat of rising local water tables.This rise in water is due to agricultural development programs aimed at reclaiming the land. The hard clay soil that surrounds the site can support buildings when dry. However, it becomes unstable when wet and has led to the collapse of cisterns and other structures about the ancient city. As the ground collapses, large cavities form enveloping the overlying structures. \n\nImmediate action was taken to fill the bases of particularly important sites with sand and close them off to the public. In attempts to counteract this phenomenon, the Supreme Council of Antiquities spent 45 million digging trenches and adding pumps in hopes of decreasing the pressure of irrigation. In addition, a fence was added to prevent encroachment and threat. These proved to be successful and the site was removed from UNESCO’s World Heritage in Danger list in 2009.\n\nSince then, water has continued to rise and cause destruction of monuments. The site is once again on UNESCO’s World Heritage in Danger list. Factors found to negatively impact the property most recently in 2018 include housing, management activities, managements systems/plan, and water. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50761753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50761753", "title": "Addis video art festival", "text": "Addis video art festival\n\n]\n\nAddis Video Art Festival is an annual international video art festival in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.\n\nAddis Video Art Festival intends to provide a platform for innovative video art in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The festival will screen throughout the city in a variety of locations including street corners, rooftops, public centers and art centers. By sharing video art in both conventional and non-conventional settings, the festival will reach both the artist community and the everyday passerby. The festival aims to create a dialogue between local, and international artists by promoting and encouraging digital media culture. \n\n"}
{"id": "36480039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36480039", "title": "Akbarabadi Mosque", "text": "Akbarabadi Mosque\n\nAkbarabadi Masjid, or Akbarabadi Mosque was a mosque in Delhi, India. It was built by Akbarabadi Mahal, one of Shah Jahan's wives in 1650. One of the several Mughal era mosques in Old Delhi, it was demolished by the British, following their recapture of Delhi during the 1857 Uprising. It is believed to have existed in modern-day Netaji Subhash Park locality of Old Delhi.\n\nAkbarabadi Masjid was built by one of Shah Jahan's wives, Akbarabadi Begum. Built in 1650, it took two years to complete. Akbarabadi Begum is said to have translated the Quran from Arabic to native Urdu at the site of the present Akbarabadi Masjid. It was in honor of her work that she came up with the idea of constructing the mosque at the same site. During its existence, it was one of the many mosques built by Royal Mughal females in Shahjahanabad, like the Fatehpuri Masjid, Zeenat-ul Masjid, etc.\n\nThe mosque was reportedly standing a good two centuries after its creation, before it fell to the British wrath in the aftermath of the 1857 Uprising. The uprising of 1857 is one of the most important and decisive events in the history of British India. Delhi – the capital of the Mughals (see History of Delhi) was the epicenter of the uprising, which began in the army units posted around Delhi. While initially successful, the revolt subsequently withered away, due to many reasons, including lack of leadership and coordination, spying by local Indians for the British, etc. (For details, see Indian Rebellion of 1857). Delhi was the last landmark of 1857 to be captured back by the British. To quell the dissent against British rule from spreading further and prevent it from resurfacing, the British destroyed hundreds of structures in Old Delhi. The Mughal capital bore the wrath of the British reaction. Any structure that was used as the mutiny base by the sepoys was destroyed (for more details, see Siege of Delhi).\n\nAkbarabadi Masjid was one of the mutiny bases which was demolished by the British forces. Its existence has since been legendary and passed on generation after generation. It is not known where the mosque exactly stood, though many local Muslim residents of Netaji Subhash Park in Old Delhi consider one particular site to be the possible ground where the mosque once stood.\n\nOn 6 July 2012, while digging earth in Netaji Subhash Park area to construct a Metro station, the officials of the DMRC came across remains of some medieval era construction buried under the ground. After investigation by the ASI, it has been confirmed that the remains belong to the Mughal era due to the material used the style of construction and other things like pottery excavated from the site. It has however, not yet been ascertained if the remains are those of Akbarabadi Masjid or are a part of it. The ASI says that its investigations to establish the exact identity of the ruins are on. The digging by DMRC has been suspended. It was part of Delhi Metro's Phase-3 plan and minor modification to the route may have to be done to adhere to the ASI construction norms in protected heritage areas.\n\nThe discovery has triggered excitement among local residents, who certainly believe the remains to belong to Akbarabadi Masjid. Following the construction of an illegal brick structure – which endangered the integrity of the ASI excavations – Muslim residents started offering namaaz at the site of the ruins. Soon after the discovery, the local MLA Shoaib Iqbal began supervising re-construction of the mosque at the same site but it was stopped after orders from the Delhi government. This led to stone pelting and minor arson when the police tried to remove copies of the Quran and some prayer mats from the site.\n\nThe local civic agency North Delhi Municipal Corporation had initially banned any activity except offering namaaz at the site. However, on 20 July 2012 the Delhi High Court issued a ban on any construction and religious activities at the site, reasoning that it was not yet ascertained if the site belonged to some ancient mosque and that for over a century has no religious activity been carried out at the site. It also ordered North Delhi Municipal Corporation to hand over the land to ASI for its investigations to begin. On 25 July 2012 the site was handed over to ASI but the archaeology body said that it would start excavating the site only after the monsoons. Heavy police cover shall be provided to ASI during its work. Following request by ASI, the Delhi High Court on 30 July 2012 ordered North Delhi Municipal Corporation to demolish the illegal construction and asked for heavy policing to maintain law and order. On 11 October 2012, after much delay due to monsoons, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation sought Paramilitary cover in a bid to start the demolition drive at the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "10412516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10412516", "title": "Aleksander Kobzdej", "text": "Aleksander Kobzdej\n\nAleksander Kobzdej (1920–1972) was a Polish painter. He was born in, what was then, Ukraine. Kobzdej is best known for being one of the most prominent representatives of the Polish Social Realist group, and for being the creator of unique Polish versions of \"matter\" painting.\n\nKobzdej began studying architecture in 1939 at Lviv. He finished his degree in Gdansk Polytechnic Institute and later studied under Wladyslaw Lam at the Kraków Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nKobzdej started off as a Post-Impressionist. His works eventually became more abstract. Toward the end of the 1940s, he exhibited bits of European Realism. This led him to Socialist Realism in the early later 1940s. Beginning in 1950 he was an active participant in official arts reviews, including the annual Polish National Visual Arts Exhibitions organized in Warsaw by the Ministry of Culture and Art. Here he presented his most famous painting to date \"Pass me a Brick.\" Slowly though Kobdzej began to stray away from Socialist Realist iconography and he moved toward exotic depictions and more narrative pieces, mainly influenced by his travels to Vietnam and China.\n\n"}
{"id": "57583239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57583239", "title": "American Indian English", "text": "American Indian English\n\nAmerican Indian English or Native American English is a diverse collection of English dialects spoken by many American Indians and Alaska Natives, notwithstanding indigenous languages also spoken in the United States, of which only a few are in daily use. For the sake of comparison, this article focuses on similarities across varieties of American Indian English that unite it in contrast to a \"typical\" English variety with standard grammar and a General American accent.\n\nThe phonemic contrasts between front vowels in standard English are not always maintained in American Indian dialects. For example, Navajo English may have , , or mergers, particularly word-medially. Isleta English maintains these contrasts, though according to different patterns than standard English. In fact, in the English of all Colorado River Indians (namely, Mohave, Hopi, and Navajo), front vowels tend to shift, often one degree lower than standard English vowels.\n\nOld speakers of Lumbee English share the \"hoi toide\" vowel, and some other pronunciation and vocabulary features, in common with Outer Banks English, as well as some grammatical features in common with African-American Vernacular English.\n\nTh-fronting is common in Cheyenne and Tsimshian English, and certainly many other Native American Englishes: replacing initial and with and , respectively. Cheyenne and Navajo English, among others, follow General American patterns of glottal replacement of \"t\", plus both \"t\"- and \"d\"-glottalization at the ends of syllables. The result is \"Brad fed the wet cat\" sounding like \"Bra' fe' the we' ca\"'.\n\nFeatures of prosody substantially contribute to differences between American Indian and General American accents. For example, even within the Colorado River Indian Englishes, there are differing rules for stress placement on words. However, these dialects do have similar intonation patterns, markedly different from General American: a lower level of pitch fluctuation and an absence of a rising intonation in questions. This is commonly stereotyped in American popular culture as a monotone, subdued, or emotionless sound quality.\n\nA 2016 study of various English-speaking indigenous North Americans (Slaveys, Standing Rock Lakotas, and diverse Indian students at Dartmouth College) found that they all used uniquely shared prosodic features for occasional emphasis, irony, or playfulness in casual peer interactions, yet rarely in formal interactions. The prosodic choices are presumably a way for these speakers to index (tap into) a shared \"Native\" identity. The documented sounds of this \"Pan-Indian\" identity include: higher pitch on post-stressed syllables (rather than stressed syllables); use of high-rising, mid, or high-falling (rather than simple falling) intonation at the ends of sentences; vowel lengthening at the ends of sentences; and syllable timing (instead of stress timing).\n\nAmerican Indian English shows enormous heterogeneity it terms of grammatical structures. As a whole, it characteristically uses plural and possessive markers less than standard English (for example, \"one of the dog is here\"). Navajo, Northern Ute, and many other Indian Englishes may simply never use plural markers for nouns. Lack of other verb markers is commonly reported in Indian speech too, like an absence of standard English's \"-ed\" or \"-s\" endings for verb tense. Verbs like \"be\", \"have\", and \"get\" are also widely deleted, and all American Indian English adds plural markers to mass nouns: thus, \"furnitures\", \"homeworks\", \"foods\", etc. In general, verb constructions within American Indian English are distinctive and even vary wildly from tribe to tribe.\n\n\"Errors\" of grammatical gender in pronouns (she, her, him, etc.) occur in some American Indian English, for example, greatly documented in Mohave and Cheyenne English. Mohave and Ute English even delete implied pronouns altogether, as in \"I didn't know where you were, was too busy to look, waited for you at school, but weren't there.\").\n\n"}
{"id": "137327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137327", "title": "Amusement park", "text": "Amusement park\n\nAn amusement park is a park that features various attractions, such as rides and games, as well as other events for entertainment purposes. A theme park is a type of amusement park that bases its structures and attractions around a central theme, often featuring multiple areas with different themes. Unlike temporary and mobile funfairs and carnivals, amusement parks are stationary and built for long-lasting operation. They are more elaborate than city parks and playgrounds, usually providing attractions that cater to a variety of age groups. While amusement parks often contain themed areas, theme parks place a heavier focus with more intricately-designed themes that revolve around a particular subject or group of subjects.\n\nAmusement parks evolved from European fairs, pleasure gardens and large picnic areas, which were created for people's recreation. World's fairs and other types of international expositions also influenced the emergence of the amusement park industry. Lake Compounce opened in 1846 and is considered the oldest continuously-operating amusement park in North America. The first theme parks emerged in the mid-twentieth century with the opening of Santa Claus Land in 1946, Santa's Workshop in 1949, and Disneyland in 1955.\n\nThe amusement park evolved from three earlier traditions: traveling or periodic fairs, pleasure gardens and exhibitions such as world fairs. The oldest influence was the periodic fair of the Middle Ages - one of the earliest was the Bartholomew Fair in England from 1133. By the 18th and 19th centuries, they had evolved into places of entertainment for the masses, where the public could view freak shows, acrobatics, conjuring and juggling, take part in competitions and walk through menageries.\nA wave of innovation in the 1860s and 1870s created mechanical rides, such as the steam-powered carousel (built by Thomas Bradshaw, at the Aylsham Fair), and its derivatives, notably from Frederick Savage of King's Lynn, Norfolk whose fairground machinery was exported all over the world; his \"galloping horses\" innovation is seen in carousels today. This inaugurated the era of the modern funfair ride, as the working classes were increasingly able to spend their surplus wages on entertainment. \n\nThe second influence was the pleasure garden. An example of this is the world's oldest amusement park, Bakken (\"The Hill\"), opened in mainland Europe in 1583. It is located north of Copenhagen in Klampenborg, Denmark.\nAnother early garden was the Vauxhall Gardens, founded in 1661 in London. By the late 18th century, the site had an admission fee for its many attractions. It regularly drew enormous crowds, with its paths often noted for romantic assignations; tightrope walkers, hot air balloon ascents, concerts and fireworks providing amusement. Although the gardens were originally designed for the elites, they soon became places of great social diversity. Public firework displays were put on at Marylebone Gardens, and Cremorne Gardens offered music, dancing and animal acrobatics displays.\n\nPrater in Vienna, Austria, began as a royal hunting ground which was opened in 1766 for public enjoyment. There followed coffee-houses and cafés, which led to the beginnings of the Wurstelprater as an amusement park. \n\nThe concept of a fixed park for amusement was further developed with the beginning of the world's fairs. The first World fair began in 1851 with the construction of the landmark Crystal Palace in London, England. The purpose of the exposition was to celebrate the industrial achievement of the nations of the world and it was designed to educate and entertain the visitors.\nAmerican cities and business also saw the world's fair as a way of demonstrating economic and industrial success. The World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago, Illinois was an early precursor to the modern amusement park. The fair was an enclosed site, that merged entertainment, engineering and education to entertain the masses. It set out to bedazzle the visitors, and successfully did so with a blaze of lights from the \"White City.\" To make sure that the fair was a financial success, the planners included a dedicated amusement concessions area called the Midway Plaisance. Rides from this fair captured the imagination of the visitors and of amusement parks around the world, such as the first steel Ferris wheel, which was found in many other amusement areas, such as the Prater by 1896. Also, the experience of the enclosed ideal city with wonder, rides, culture and progress (electricity), was based on the creation of an illusory place.\n\nThe \"midway\" introduced at the Columbian Exposition would become a standard part of most amusement parks, fairs, carnivals and circuses. The midway contained not only the rides, but other concessions and entertainments such as shooting galleries, penny arcades, games of chance and shows.\n\nMany modern amusement parks evolved from earlier pleasure resorts that had become popular with the public for day-trips or weekend holidays, for example, seaside areas such as Blackpool, United Kingdom and Coney Island, United States. In the United States, some amusement parks grew from picnic groves established along rivers and lakes that provided bathing and water sports, such as Lake Compounce in Connecticut, first established as a picturesque picnic park in 1846, and Riverside Park in Massachusetts, founded in the 1870s along the Connecticut River.\n\nThe trick was getting the public to the seaside or resort location. For Coney Island in Brooklyn, New York, on the Atlantic Ocean, a horse-drawn streetcar line brought pleasure seekers to the beach beginning in 1829. In 1875, a million passengers rode the Coney Island Railroad, and in 1876 two million visited Coney Island. Hotels and amusements were built to accommodate both the upper classes and the working class at the beach. The first carousel was installed in the 1870s, the first roller coaster, the \"Switchback Railway\", in 1884.\nIn England, Blackpool was a popular beachside location beginning in the 1700s. It rose to prominence as a seaside resort with the completion in 1846 of a branch line to Blackpool from Poulton on the main Preston and Wyre Joint Railway line. A sudden influx of visitors, arriving by rail, provided the motivation for entrepreneurs to build accommodation and create new attractions, leading to more visitors and a rapid cycle of growth throughout the 1850s and 1860s.\nIn 1879, large parts of the promenade at Blackpool were wired. The lighting and its accompanying pageants reinforced Blackpool's status as the North of England's most prominent holiday resort, and its specifically working class character. It was the forerunner of the present-day Blackpool Illuminations. By the 1890s, the town had a population of 35,000, and could accommodate 250,000 holidaymakers. The number of annual visitors, many staying for a week, was estimated at three million.\n\nIn the final decade of the 19th century, electric trolley lines were developed in many large American cities. Companies that established the trolley lines also developed trolley parks as destinations of these lines. Trolley parks such as Atlanta's Ponce de Leon Park, or Reading's Carsonia Park were initially popular natural leisure spots before local streetcar companies purchased the sites, expanding them from picnic groves to include regular entertainments, mechanical amusements, dance halls, sports fields, boat rides, restaurants and other resort facilities.\n\nSome of these parks were developed in resort locations, such as bathing resorts at the seaside in New Jersey and New York. A premiere example in New Jersey was Atlantic City, a famous vacation resort. Entrepreneurs erected amusement parks on piers that extended from the boardwalk out over the ocean. The first of several was the Ocean Pier in 1891, followed later by the Steel Pier in 1898, both of which boasted rides and attractions typical of that time, such as Midway-style games and electric trolley rides. The boardwalk also had the first Roundabout installed in 1892 by William Somers, a wooden predecessor to the Ferris Wheel. Somers installed two others in Asbury Park, New Jersey and Coney Island, New York.\n\nAnother early park was the Eldorado Amusement Park that opened in 1891 on the banks of the Hudson River, overlooking New York City. It consisted of 25 acres.\n\nThe first permanent enclosed entertainment area, regulated by a single company, was founded in Coney Island in 1895: Sea Lion Park at Coney Island in Brooklyn. This park was one of the first to charge admission to get into the park in addition to sell tickets for rides within the park.\n\nIn 1897, Sea Lion Park was joined by Steeplechase Park, the first of three major amusement parks that would open in the Coney Island area. George Tilyou designed the park to provide thrills and entertainment. The combination of the nearby population center of New York City and the ease of access to the area made Coney Island the embodiment of the American amusement park. Coney Island also featured Luna Park (1903) and Dreamland (1904). Coney Island was a huge success and by year 1910 attendance on days could reach a million people. Fueled by the efforts of Frederick Ingersoll who borrowed the name, other \"Luna Parks\" were quickly erected worldwide and opened to rave reviews.\n\nThe first amusement park in England was opened in 1896 - the Blackpool Pleasure Beach by W. G. Bean. In 1904, Sir Hiram Maxim's Captive Flying Machine was introduced; he had designed an early aircraft powered by steam engines that had been unsuccessful and instead opened up a pleasure ride of flying carriages that revolved around a central pylon. Other rides included the 'Grotto' (a fantasy ride), 'River Caves' (a scenic railway), water chutes and a toboganning tower.\n\nFire was a constant threat in those days, as much of the construction within the amusement parks of the era was wooden. In 1911, Dreamland was the first Coney Island amusement park to completely burn down; in 1944, Luna Park also burned to the ground. Most of Ingersoll's Luna Parks were similarly destroyed, usually by arson, before his death in 1927.\n\nDuring the Gilded Age, many Americans began working fewer hours and had more disposable income. With new-found money and time to spend on leisure activities, Americans sought new venues for entertainment. Amusement parks, set up outside major cities and in rural areas, emerged to meet this new economic opportunity. These parks served as source of fantasy and escape from real life. By the early 1900s, hundreds of amusement parks were operating in the United States and Canada. Trolley parks stood outside many cities. Parks like Atlanta's Ponce de Leon and Idora Park, near Youngstown, OH, took passengers to traditionally popular picnic grounds, which by the late 1890s also often included rides like the Giant Swing, Carousel, and Shoot-the-Chutes. These amusement parks were often based on nationally known parks or world's fairs: they had names like Coney Island, White City, Luna Park, or Dreamland. The American Gilded Age was, in fact, amusement parks' Golden Age that reigned until the late 1920s.\n\nThe Golden Age of amusement parks also included the advent of the kiddie park. Founded in 1925, the original Kiddie Park is located in San Antonio, Texas and is still in operation today. The kiddie parks became popular all over America after World War II.\n\nThis era saw the development of the new innovations in roller coasters that included extreme drops and speeds to thrill the riders. By the end of the First World War, people seemed to want an even more exciting entertainment, a need met by roller coasters. Although the development of the automobile provided people with more options for satisfying their entertainment needs, the amusement parks after the war continued to be successful, while urban amusement parks saw declining attendance. The 1920s is more properly known as the Golden Age of roller coasters, being the decade of frenetic building for these rides.\nIn England, Dreamland Margate opened in 1880 with Frederick Savage's carousel the first amusement ride installed. In 1920 the Scenic Railway rollercoaster opened to the public with great success, carrying half a million passengers in its first year. The park also installed other rides common to the time including a smaller roller coaster, the Joy Wheel, Miniature Railway, The Whip and the River Caves. A ballroom was constructed on the site of the Skating Rink in 1920 and in 1923 a Variety Cinema was built on the site. Between 1920 and 1935 over £500,000 was invested in the site, constantly adding new rides and facilities and culminating in the construction of the Dreamland Cinema complex in 1934 which stands to this day.\n\nMeanwhile, the Blackpool Pleasure Beach was also being developed. Frequent large-scale investments were responsible for the construction of many new rides, including the Virginia Reel, Whip, Noah's Ark, Big Dipper and Dodgems. In the 1920s the \"Casino Building\" was built, which remains to this day. In 1923, land was reclaimed from the sea front. It was at this period that the park moved to its 44-acre (180,000 m2) current location above what became Watson Road, which was built under the Pleasure Beach in 1932. During this time Joseph Emberton, an architect famous for his work in the amusement trade was brought in to redesign the architectural style of the Pleasure Beach rides, working on the \"Grand National\" roller coaster, \"Noah's Ark\" and the Casino building to name a few.\n\nThe Great Depression of the 1930s and World War II during the 1940s saw the decline of the amusement park industry. War caused the affluent urban population to move to the suburbs, television became a source of entertainment, and families went to amusement parks less often.\n\nBy the 1950s, factors such as urban decay, crime, and even desegregation in the ghettos led to changing patterns in how people chose to spend their free time. Many of the older, traditional amusement parks closed or burned to the ground. Many would be taken out by the wrecking ball to make way for suburban housing and development. In 1964, Steeplechase Park, once the king of all amusement parks, closed down for good. The traditional amusement parks which survived, for example, Kennywood, in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, and Cedar Point, in Sandusky, Ohio, did so in spite of the odds.\n\nThe amusement park industry's offerings range from large, worldwide type theme parks such as Walt Disney World, SeaWorld Orlando and Universal Studios Hollywood to smaller and medium-sized theme parks such as the Six Flags parks and Cedar Fair parks. Countless smaller ventures exist across the United States and around the world. Simpler theme parks directly aimed at smaller children have also emerged, such as Legoland. Currently the largest amusement park in the world is Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World Resort. \n\nExamples of amusement parks in shopping malls exist in West Edmonton Mall, Pier 39 and Mall of America.\n\nFamily fun parks starting as miniature golf courses have begun to grow to include batting cages, go-karts, bumper cars, bumper boats and water slides. Some of these parks have grown to include even roller coasters, and traditional amusement parks now also have these competition areas in addition to their thrill rides.\n\nSome parks use rides and attractions for educational purposes. Disney was the first to successfully open a large-scale theme park built around education. Named Epcot, it opened in 1982 as the second park in the Walt Disney World Resort. There are also Holy Land USA and the Holy Land Experience, which are theme parks built to inspire Christian piety. Dinosaur World entertains families with dinosaurs in natural settings, while the SeaWorld and Busch Gardens parks also offer educational experiences, with each of the parks housing several thousand animals, fish and other sea life in dozens of attractions and exhibits focusing on animal education.\n\nCreated in 1977, the Puy du Fou is a much celebrated theme park in Vendée, France. It is centered around European, French and local history. It received several international prizes.\n\nSome theme parks did evolve from more traditional amusement park enterprises, such as Knott's Berry Farm. In the 1920s, Walter Knott and his family sold berries from a roadside stand, which grew to include a restaurant serving fried chicken dinners. Within a few years, lines outside the restaurant were often several hours long. To entertain the waiting crowds, Walter Knott built a Ghost Town in 1940, using buildings relocated from real old west towns such as the Calico, California ghost town and Prescott, Arizona. In 1968, the Knott family fenced the farm, charged admission for the first time, and Knott's Berry Farm officially became an amusement park. Because of its long history, Knott's Berry Farm currently claims to be \"America's First Theme Park.\" Knott's Berry Farm is now owned by Cedar Fair Entertainment Company. Lake Compounce in Bristol, Connecticut may be the true oldest continuously operating amusement park in the United States, open since 1846. Santa Claus Town, which opened in Santa Claus, Indiana in 1935 and included Santa's Candy Castle and other Santa Claus-themed attractions, is considered the first themed attraction in the United States: a precursor to the modern day theme park. Santa Claus Land (renamed Holiday World in 1984) opened in 1946 in Santa Claus, Indiana and many people will argue that it was the first true Theme Park despite Knott's history. In the 1950s the Herschend family took over operation of the tourist attraction, Marvel Cave near Branson, Missouri. Over the next decade they modernized the cave, which led to large numbers of people waiting to take the tour. The Herschend family opened a recreation of the old mining town that once existed atop Marvel Cave. The small village eventually became the theme park, Silver Dollar City. The park is still owned and operated by the Herschends and the family has several other parks including Dollywood, Celebration City and Wild Adventures.\n\nThe first regional amusement park, as well as the first Six Flags park, Six Flags over Texas was officially opened in 1961 in Arlington, Texas. The first Six Flags amusement park was the vision of Angus Wynne, Jr. and helped create the modern, competitive amusement park industry. In the late 1950s, Wynne visited Disneyland and was inspired to create an affordable, closer, and larger amusement park that would be filled with fantasy. He followed in the steps of Disney and had subdivisions within the park that reflected different lands. The subdivisions included the Old South and other sections that referenced Wynne's background. By 1968, the second Six Flags park, Six Flags Over Georgia, opened, and in 1971, Six Flags Over Mid-America (now Six Flags St. Louis) opened near St. Louis, Missouri. Also in 1971 was the opening of the Walt Disney World resort complex in Florida, with the Magic Kingdom (1971), Epcot (1982), Disney's Hollywood Studios (1989) and Disney's Animal Kingdom (1998).\n\nAmusement parks collect much of their revenue from admission fees paid by guests attending the park. Other revenue sources include parking fees, food and beverage sales and souvenirs.\n\nPractically all amusement parks operate using one of two admission principles:\n\nIn amusement parks using the pay-as-you-go scheme, a guest enters the park at little or no charge. The guest must then purchase rides individually, either at the attraction's entrance or by purchasing ride tickets (or a similar exchange method, like a token). The cost of the attraction is often based on its complexity or popularity. For example, a guest might pay one ticket to ride a carousel but four tickets to ride a roller coaster.\n\nThe park may allow guests to purchase a pass providing unlimited admissions to all attractions within the park for a specified duration of time. A wristband or pass is then shown at the attraction entrance to gain admission.\nDisneyland opened in 1955 using the pay-as-you-go format. Initially, guests paid the ride admission fees at the attractions. Within a short time, the problems of handling such large amounts of coins led to the development of a ticket system that, while now out of use, is still part of the amusement-park lexicon. In this new format, guests purchased ticket books that contained a number of tickets, labeled \"A,\" \"B\" and \"C.\" Rides and attractions using an \"A-ticket\" were generally simple, with \"B-tickets\" and \"C-tickets\" used for the larger, more popular rides. Later, the \"D-ticket\" was added, then finally the \"E-ticket\", which was used on the biggest and most elaborate rides, like Space Mountain. Smaller tickets could be traded up for use on larger rides, so that for example two or three A-tickets would equal a single B-ticket. Disneyland, as well as the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World, abandoned this practice in 1982.\n\nAn amusement park using the pay-one-price scheme will charge guests a single admission fee. The guest is then entitled to use most of the attractions (usually including flagship roller coasters) in the park as often as they wish during their visit. A daily admission pass (daypass) is the most basic fare on sale, also sold are season tickets which offer holders admission for the entire operating year (plus special privileges for the newest attractions), and express passes which gives holders priority in bypassing lineup queues for popular attractions.\n\nPay-one-price format parks also have attractions that are not included in the admission charge; these are called \"up-charge attractions\" and can include Skycoasters or go-kart tracks, or games of skill where prizes are won.\n\nWhen Angus Wynne, founder of Six Flags Over Texas, first visited Disneyland in 1959, he noted that park's pay-as-you-go format as a reason to make his park pay-one-price. He thought that a family would be more likely to visit his park if they knew, up front, how much it would cost to attend.\n\n\"See List of amusement rides\"\n\nMechanized thrill machines are a defining feature of amusement parks. Early rides include the carousel, which originally developed from cavalry training methods first used in the Middle Ages. By the 19th century, carousels were common in parks around the world. Another such ride which shaped the future of the amusement park was the roller coaster. The origins of roller coasters can be traced back to 17th-century Russia, where gravity-driven attractions, which at first only consisted of individual sleds or carts riding freely down chutes on top of specially constructed snow slopes with piles of sand at the bottom for braking, were used as winter leisure activities. These crude and temporarily built curiosities, known as \"Russian Mountains\", were the beginning of the search for even more thrilling amusement park rides. The Columbian Exposition of 1893 was a particularly fertile testing ground for amusement rides and included some that the public had never seen before, such as the world's first Ferris wheel, one of the most recognized products of the fair. In the present day, many rides of various types are set around a specific theme.\n\nParks contains a mixture of attractions which can be divided into several categories.\n\nFlat rides are usually considered to be those that move their passengers in a plane generally parallel to the ground.\n\nThere is a core set of flat rides which most amusement parks have, including the enterprise, tilt-a-whirl, gravitron, chairswing, swinging inverter ship, twister, and top spin. However, there is constant innovation, with new variations on ways to spin and throw passengers around appearing in an effort to keep attracting customers. Manufactures such as Huss and Zamperla specialise in creating flat rides among other amusement attractions.\n\nAmusement parks often feature multiple roller coasters of primarily timber or steel construction. Fundamentally, a roller coaster ride is one in which a specialized railroad system with steep drops and sharp curves, passengers sit and are restrained in cars, usually with two or more cars joined to form a train. Some roller coasters feature one or more inversions (such as vertical loops) which turn the riders upside down. Over the years there have been many roller coaster manufacturers with a variety of types of roller coasters. \n\nManufacturers today include:\n\nAmusement park railways have had a long and varied history in American amusement parks as well as overseas. Some of the earliest park trains were not really trains; they were trolleys, which brought park patrons to the parks on regular rail lines from the cities to the end of the rail lines where the parks were located. As such, some older parks, such as Kennywood in Pennsylvania, were referred to as trolley parks. The earliest park trains that only operated on lines within the park's boundaries, such as the one on the ridable miniature Zephyr Railroad in Dorney Park, were mostly custom-built. Amusement park railways tend to be narrow gauge, meaning the space between their rails is smaller than that of railroads. Some specific narrow gauges that are common on amusement park railroads are gauge, gauge, gauge, and gauge.\n\nPast and present manufacturers include: \n\nAmusement parks with water resources generally feature a few water rides, such as the log flume, bumper boats, rapids and rowing boats. Such rides are usually gentler and shorter than roller coasters and many are suitable for all ages. Water rides are especially popular on hot days.\n\nOverlapping with both train rides and water rides, dark rides are enclosed attractions in which patrons travel in guided vehicles along a predetermined path, through an array of illuminated scenes which may include lighting effects, animation, music and recorded dialogue, and other special effects.\n\nFerris wheels are the most common type of amusement ride at state fairs and county fairs in the US.\n\nTransport rides are used to take large numbers of guests from one area to another, as an alternative to walking, especially for parks that are large or separated into distant areas. Transport rides include chairlifts, monorails, aerial trams, and escalators.\n\nOcean Park Hong Kong is well known for its cable car connecting the Lowland and Headland areas of the park, and for having the world's second longest outdoor escalator in the Headland. Both transportation links provide scenic views of the park's hilly surroundings and, while originally intended for practicality rather than thrills or enjoyment, have become significant park attractions in their own right.\n"}
{"id": "22244627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22244627", "title": "Archaeology Under the Canopy", "text": "Archaeology Under the Canopy\n\nArchaeology Under the Canopy is a conservation strategy developed by Dr. Anabel Ford for the preservation of pre-Columbian Maya monuments at the archeological site El Pilar, an ancient Maya center on the border of Belize and Guatemala. This style of conservation encourages the conservation of rainforest foliage for the protection of monuments and the strategic exposure of ancient structures.\n\nThe objective of Archaeology Under the Canopy is to preserve Maya cultural heritage by protecting the forest canopy guarding ancient Maya artifacts and monuments from damaging elements. The El Pilar Archaeological Reserve for Flora and Fauna practices this conservation strategy and treats the forest as if it was another piece of ancient Maya civilization. This conservation strategy aims to become an example for other future projects by showing the benefits of cooperating with nature rather than destroying it. With the increasing support of Archaeology Under the Canopy, the knowledge of environmental conservation for cultural conservation can spread and potentially improve other ancient sites around the world.\n\nExposing ancient architecture provokes the natural process of degradation and decomposition. The standard approach to excavation is to remove soil and foliage to reveal and record archaeological remains. After the excavation is complete, dramatic monuments are typically consolidated and left exposed for public viewing and tourism. Fully exposed monuments are then at risk of looting or other forms of potential damage. Over the past century of excavation in the Maya world, wind, rain, and acid-producing microbes have caused extensive damage on ancient limestone monuments Pieces of Maya history have started to disappear due to the loss of the natural environment surrounding ancient Maya sites.\n\nArchaeology Under the Canopy has four main components: the forest canopy, the practice of forest gardening, the leaf litter on the forest floor, and the ancient monuments. Each of these components plays an important part of the innovative conservation strategy. The natural environment is recognized as protection for ancient monuments.\n\nAfter an excavation is complete, monuments or sections of monuments – such as a wall, room, stair, or doorjamb – are selected for consolidation and viewing. The majority of the monument is left covered with plant foliage for stabilization. Fully exposing the ancient monuments by clearing its natural environment accelerates the natural degradation process. Archaeology Under the Canopy protects the monument from the elements and the integrity of the environment for the future.\n\nThis presentation style of monuments encourages visitors to kindle their imagination and consider other aspects of Maya life beyond elite architecture. Visitors are inspired to ask about the forest context of this advanced civilization, its relationship to the environment, plant use, land management, forest regeneration, and what happens when monuments are neglected over time.\n\nArchaeology Under the Canopy introduces long-term manipulation schemes around local forest regions that will allow for immediate benefits to local people and valuable experimental data. Therefore, local communities are encouraged to participate in the conservation and evolution of the Maya forest so that the knowledge of conservation continues to spread.\n\nThough Archaeology Under the Canopy was conceptualized for the Maya world, it is based on the Athens Charter for the Restoration of Historic Monuments, the International Charter for the Conservation and Restoration of Monuments and Sites, and the Australia ICOMOS Charter for the Conservation of Places of Cultural Significance. The practice of Archaeology Under the Canopy has implications for archaeological conservation all over the world, integrating environmental and cultural contexts of a site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943382", "title": "Auraicept na n-Éces", "text": "Auraicept na n-Éces\n\nAuraicept na n-Éces (, \"the scholars' [\"éices\"] primer [\"airaiccecht\"]\") is claimed as a 7th-century work of Irish grammarians, written by a scholar named Longarad. \nThe core of the text could indeed date to the mid-7th century, but much material will have been added over the five centuries preceding the text as recorded in the earliest surviving copy (12th century).\n\nIf indeed dating to the 7th century, the text is the first instance of a defence of vernaculars, defending the spoken Irish language over Latin, predating Dante's \"De vulgari eloquentia\" by 600 years and Chernorizets Hrabar's \"O pismeneh\" by 200 years.\n\n\nThe Auraicept consists of four books,\n\nThe author argues from a comparison of Gaelic grammar with the materials used in the constructions of the Tower of Babel:\n\n(note the discrepancy of nine materials vs. eight parts of speech). As pointed out by Eco (1993), Gaelic was thus argued to be the only instance of a language that overcame the confusion of tongues, being the first language that was created after the fall of the tower by the seventy-two wise men of the school of Fenius, choosing all that was best in each language to implement in Irish. Calder notes (p. xxxii) that the poetic list of the \"72 races\" was taken from a poem by Luccreth moccu Chiara.\n\nThe \"Auraicept\" is one of the three main sources of the manuscript tradition about Ogham, the others being \"In Lebor Ogaim\" and \"De dúilib feda na forfed\". A copy of \"In Lebor Ogaim\" immediately precedes the \"Auraincept\" in the Book of Ballymote, but instead of the \"Bríatharogam Con Culainn\" given in other copies, there follows a variety of other \"secret\" modes of ogham. The Younger Futhark are also included, as\" ogam lochlannach\" \"ogham of the Norsemen\".\n\nSimilar to the argument of the precedence of the Gaelic language, the \"Auraicept\" claims that Fenius Farsaidh discovered four alphabets, the Hebrew, Greek and Latin ones, and finally the ogham, and that the ogham is the most perfected because it was discovered last. The text is the origin of the tradition that the ogham letters were named after trees, but it gives as an alternative possibility that the letters are named for the 25 members of Fenius' school.\n\nIn the translation of Calder (1917),\n\nIn the translation of McManus:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40300485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40300485", "title": "Base and superstructure", "text": "Base and superstructure\n\nIn Marxist theory, capitalist society consists of two parts: the base (or substructure) and superstructure. The base comprises the forces and relations of production (e.g. employer–employee work conditions, the technical division of labour, and property relations) into which people enter to produce the necessities and amenities of life. The base determines society's other relationships and ideas to comprise its superstructure, including its culture, institutions, political power structures, roles, rituals, and state. While the relation of the two parts is not strictly unidirectional, as the superstructure often affects the base, the influence of the base is predominant. In Orthodox Marxism, the base determines the superstructure in a one-way relationship. Marx and Engels warned against such economic determinism.\n\nIn some non-Western languages, but also, for example, in French, this concept is rendered as \"Infrastructure and Superstructure\" which could lead to a malapropism. It has only a vague conceptual relatedness to the English sense of infrastructure.\n\nIn developing Alexis de Tocqueville's observations, Marx identified civil society as the economic base and political society as the political superstructure. Marx postulated the essentials of the base–superstructure concept in his preface to \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\" (1859):\n\nMarx's \"base determines superstructure\" axiom, however, requires qualification:\n\nMarx's theory of base and superstructure can be found in the disciplines of political science, sociology, anthropology, and psychology as utilized by Marxist scholars. Across these disciplines the base-superstructure relationship, and the contents of each, may take different forms.\n\nEarly sociologist Max Weber preferred a form of structuralism over a base and superstructure model of society in which he proposes that the base and superstructure are reciprocal in causality—neither economic rationality nor normative ideas rule the domain of society. In summarizing results from his East Elbia research he notes that, contrary to the base and superstructure model \"we have become used to,\" there exists a reciprocal relationship between the two.\n\nThe Italian political philosopher Antonio Gramsci divided Marx's superstructure into two elements: political society and civil society. Political society consists of the organized force of society (such as the police and military) while civil society refers to the consensus-creating elements that contribute to hegemony. Both constituents of this superstructure are still informed by the values of the base, serving to establish and enforce these values in society.\n\nWalter Rodney, the Guyanese political activist and African historian, discussed the role of Marx's superstructure in the context of development cycles and colonialism. Rodney states that while most countries follow a developmental structure that evolves from feudalism to capitalism, China is an exception to this rule and skipped the capitalism step. \"The explanation is very complex, but in general terms the main differences between feudal Europe and feudal China lay in the superstructure – i.e. in the body of beliefs, motivations and sociopolitical institutions which derived from the material base but in turn affected it. In China, religious, educational and bureaucratic qualifications were of utmost importance, and government was in the hands of state officials rather than being run by the landlords on their own feudal estates.\" By extension this means that the Marxist development cycle is malleable due to cultural superstructures, and is not an inevitable path. Rather the role of the superstructure allows for adaptation of the development cycle, especially in a colonial context.\n\nFreudo-Marxist Wilhelm Reich's discipline of analysis known as sex-economy is an attempt to understand the divergence of the perceived base and superstructure that occurred during the global economic crisis from 1929 to 1933. To make sense of this phenomenon, Reich recategorized social ideology as an element in the base—not the superstructure. In this new categorization, social ideology and social psychology is a material process that self-perpetuates, the same way economic systems in the base perpetuate themselves. Reich focused on the role of sexual repression in the patriarchal family system as a way to understand how mass support for Fascism could arise in a society.\n\nContemporary Marxist interpretations such as those of critical theory criticise this conception of the base–superstructure interaction and examine how each affects and conditions the other. Raymond Williams, for example, argues against loose, \"popular\" usage of base and superstructure as discrete entities which, he explains, is not the intention of Marx and Engels:\nJohn Plamenatz makes two counterclaims regarding the clear-cut separation of the base and superstructure. The first is that economic structure is independent from production in many cases, with relations of production or property also having a strong effect on production.\nThe second claim is that relations of production can only be defined with normative terms—this implies that social life and humanity's morality cannot be truly separated as both are defined in a normative sense.\n\nA criticism of the base and superstructure theory is that property relations (supposedly part of the base and the driving force of history) are actually defined by legal relations, an element of the superstructure. Defenders of the theory claim that Marx believed in property relations and social relations of production as two separate entities.\n\nColin Jenkins provides (2014) a critique on the role of the capitalist state in the era of neoliberalism, using base and superstructure theory as well as the work of Nicos Poulantzas. Regarding developments in the United States during this era (roughly 1980-2015), Jenkins highlights the nature in which political parties and the political system itself are inherently designed to protect the economic base of capitalism and, in doing so, have become \"increasingly centralized, coordinated, and synchronized over the past half-century.\" This, according to Jenkins, has led to a \"corporate-fascistic state of being\" that is challenging the equilibrium of this fragile relationship. His analysis specifically addresses the role of both major parties, Democrats and Republicans, in the United States:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5650079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5650079", "title": "Binomial pair", "text": "Binomial pair\n\nIn linguistics, a binomial pair or binomial is a sequence of two or more words or phrases belonging to the same grammatical category, having some semantic relationship and joined by some syntactic device such as \"and\" or \"or\". Examples in English include \"through and through\", \"(without) let or hindrance\", and \"chalk and cheese\".\n\nSeveral legal terms are binomial pairs, often (but not necessarily) consisting of one Germanic word and one Romance word, such as \"(last) will and testament\" or \"cease and desist\".\n\nBinomials are often irreversible; that is, they occur only in one order. For example, one says \"bow and arrow\" but not \"*arrow and bow\"; one says \"here and there\" and \"that's neither here nor there\", but not \"*there and here\" or \"*that's neither there nor here\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3842580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842580", "title": "Borre mound cemetery", "text": "Borre mound cemetery\n\nBorre mound cemetery (Norwegian: \"Borrehaugene\" from the \"Old Norse\" words \"borró\" and \"haugr\" meaning mound) forms part of the Borre National Park at Horten in Vestfold, Norway. It is the largest burial mound site in Northern Europe.\n\nBorre National Park is home to the most extensive collection of king’s graves in Scandinavia. It is home to seven large and 21 smaller burial mounds. Excavations in the 1980s revealed that the oldest mounds date to 600 AD, i.e. prior to the Viking age.\n\nThe park covers 45 acres (182,000 m²) and its collection of burial mounds is exceptional in Scandinavia. Today, seven large mounds and one cairn can be seen. At least two mounds and one cairn have been destroyed in modern times. There are also 25 smaller cairns and the cemetery may have been larger. Some of the monuments are over 45m in diameter and up to 6m high. Borrehaugene provides important historical knowledge and can be seen as evidence that there was a local power center from the Merovingian period to the Viking age.\n\nThe first investigations of the cemetery took place in 1851-1852. Local road-builders used one of the mounds as a gravel-pit and in the process destroyed large parts of a richly equipped grave in a Viking ship. Antiquarian Nicolay Nicolaysen examined what was left of the mound. The grave contained weapons and riding equipment. The excavations uncovered an unusually good selection of craft work, much of which is on display at the Viking Ship Museum in Oslo.\n\nThis artistic craft work has become known as the Borre style and is today known for its beautiful animal and knot ornaments, which were often used for decorating harnesses. Some of the smaller cairns were investigated in 1925. They turned out to be simple cremation graves. More recent excavations were undertaken by archaeologist Bjørn Myhre in 1989 to 1991, both in and around the national park.\nMidgard Historical Center at Borre was opened in 2000 and is part of Vestfold Museum (\"Vestfoldmuseene\"). The center was established with the goal of spreading knowledge about the Viking Age. The center provides exhibitions and offers guided tours of Borre National Park.\n\nIn October 2007 ground-penetrating radar [GPR] measurements conducted by the archaeological prospection unit of the Swedish Central National Heritage Board on behalf of Vestfold County Administration led to the discovery of the buried remains of two pre-historic hall buildings, the first substantial building remains discovered in the vicinity of Borre.\nIn March 2013 a large-scale GPR survey conducted by the (LBI ArchPro) in collaboration with Vestfold County Administration and the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research (NIKU) resulted in the discovery of another large hall building.\nIn 2015 Erich Draganits et al. suggested that a prehistoric harbour is likely to have been located at Borre based on the analysis of geomorphological features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9805952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9805952", "title": "Chanquillo", "text": "Chanquillo\n\nChanquillo or Chankillo is an ancient monumental complex in the Peruvian coastal desert, found in the Casma-Sechin basin in the Ancash Department of Peru. The ruins include the hilltop Chankillo fort, the nearby Thirteen Towers solar observatory, and residential and gathering areas. The Thirteen Towers have been interpreted as an astronomical observatory built in the 4th century BC. The culture that produced Chankillo is called the Casma/Sechin culture or the Sechin Complex.\n\nThe site covers about four square kilometres (1.5 square miles) and has been interpreted as a fortified temple.\n\nThe regularly-spaced thirteen towers of Chankillo were constructed atop the ridge of a low hill running near north to south, forming a \"toothed\" horizon with narrow gaps at regular intervals. To the east and west investigators designated two possible observation points. From these vantages, the 300m long spread of the towers along the horizon corresponds very closely to the rising and setting positions of the sun over the year, albeit they are not all visible. On the winter solstice, the sun would rise behind the leftmost tower of Chankillo and rise behind each of the towers until it reached the rightmost tower six months later on the summer solstice, marking the passage of time. The Thirteen Towers of Chankillo could be the earliest known observatory in the Americas. Inhabitants of Chankillo would have been able to determine an accurate date, with an error of a day or two, by observing the sunrise or sunset from the correct tower.\n\nThe towers had been known to travelers for centuries, the astronomical function of the towers were speculated famously by Thor Heyerdahl in his of the 1940s but only recently hypothesized at length in 2007 by Iván Ghezzi and Clive Ruggles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263273", "title": "Chewing gum bug", "text": "Chewing gum bug\n\nA chewing gum bug is a practical joke gag used to play tricks on people, usually adults. The appearance is of a 5-pack of chewing gum, with one stick of gum remaining. The trick works when the prankster tricks the victim into pulling out the last stick of gum. A small rubber bug, (folded back to fit in the pack), springs out and smacks the victim on the finger he or she used to hold the fake stick of chewing gum. It does not hurt or injure the victim, though it can potentially annoy the victim. Some variants deliver a mild electric shock, or set off a cap. After a person touches the chewing gum bug, he also may report a \"tingly feeling\" similar to pins and needles.\n\n"}
{"id": "593740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593740", "title": "Cockatoo Island (New South Wales)", "text": "Cockatoo Island (New South Wales)\n\nCockatoo Island, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is located at the junction of the Parramatta and Lane Cove rivers, in Sydney Harbour, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nCockatoo Island is the largest of several islands that were originally heavily timbered sandstone knolls. Originally the Island rose to above sea level and was but it has been extended to and is now cleared of most vegetation. Called \"Wa-rea-mah\" by the Indigenous Australians who traditionally inhabited the land prior to European settlement, the island may have been used as a fishing base, although physical evidence of Aboriginal heritage has not been found on the island.\n\nBetween 1839 and 1869, Cockatoo Island operated as a convict penal establishment, primarily as a place of secondary punishment for convicts who had re-offended in the colonies.\n\nCockatoo Island was also the site of one of Australia's biggest shipyards, operating between 1857 and 1991. The first of its two dry docks was built by convicts. Listed on the National Heritage List, the island is significant for its demonstration of the characteristics of a long-running dockyard and shipbuilding complex, including evidence of key functions, structures and operational layout. Cockatoo Island contains the nation's most extensive and varied record of shipbuilding, and has the potential to enhance understanding of maritime and heavy industrial processes in Australia from the mid-19th century.\n\nIn July 2010, UNESCO proclaimed Cockatoo Island as a World Heritage Site, and has been managed by the Sydney Harbour Federation Trust since 2001.\n\nThe island is managed by the Sydney Harbour Federation Trust which is also responsible for seven other lands around Sydney Harbour. The Harbour Trust is revitalising the island as a landmark harbour attraction with cultural events and heritage interpretation. Today Cockatoo Island retains some remnants of its past. Its prison buildings have been World Heritage listed, part of a serial listing of 11 Australian Convict Sites.\n\nAlthough some large workshops, slipways, wharves, residences and other buildings remain, major buildings were demolished after Cockatoo Island closed as a dockyard in 1991; pictured right. As the remaining buildings contain few of their original industrial artefacts and none of the remaining industrial heritage including the docks, caissons and cranes is operational, it is difficult to currently see how the island functioned as a dockyard for over a century.\n\nIn late March 2005 the Harbour Trust, in partnership with an event organiser, held the Cockatoo Island Festival. The event put the island on Sydney's cultural map and initiated a range of cultural activities including contemporary art installations, exhibitions and festivals.\n\nThe Harbour Trust opened a camp and glampsite on the island in 2008. The camp ground attracts some 20,000 campers a year and is a popular spot for watching Sydney's renowned New Year's Eve fireworks. In 2010, the island attracted a capacity crowd of over 2000 campers to view NYE fireworks. Other island holiday accommodation consists of five renovated houses and apartments with harbour and city views.\n\nSydney Ferries services Cockatoo Island as part of its Woolwich/Balmain ferry route and Parramatta RiverCat route. Day visitors are welcome, and can picnic, barbecue, visit the cafe, wander at leisure or take an audio or guided tour. Cockatoo Island is open daily and there is no admission charge.\n\nRegular events and art installations are a feature of the island.\n\nCockatoo Island has grown into a versatile cultural venue on Sydney's cultural calendar. In 2008, it was a major venue partner of the 16th Biennale of Sydney, attracting over 80,000 visitors over 12 weeks. In 2010, the event attracted over 156,000 people. In 2009, Cockatoo Island hosted the Sydney Festival's \"All Tomorrow's Parties\" music festival. The two-day festival included twenty-four bands over four stages across the island, and was curated and headlined by Nick Cave, attracting an audience of over 11,000. The island hosted the World's Funniest Island Comedy Festival in October 2009, with 200 comedy acts appearing over a weekend, attracting over 8,000 visitors.\n\nThe island is also increasingly used as a venue for private events both large and small. Part of the blockbuster was filmed there in 2008. Reality television programs have also used the island as a location.\n\nBefore the arrival of Europeans, Cockatoo Island was used by the indigenous Australian people of Sydney's coastal region. In 1839 it was chosen as the site of a new penal establishment by the Governor of the colony of New South Wales, Sir George Gipps. Between 1839 and 1869 the island was used as a convict prison. Initially, prisoners were transferred to Cockatoo Island from Norfolk Island, and were employed constructing their barracks and rock-cut silos for storing the colony's grain supply. By 1842, approximately of grain were stored on the island.\n\nLater, quarrying on the island provided stone for construction projects around Sydney, including the seawall for Circular Quay. Between 1847 and 1857, convicts were used to dig the Fitzroy Dock, Australia's first dry dock, on the island. An estimated of rock was excavated with forming the dock itself.\n\nIn 2009, an archeological dig on the island uncovered convict era punishment cells under the cookhouse. These cells give a valuable insight into the conditions convicts lived under on the island.\n\nOne prisoner on Cockatoo Island was the Australian bushranger, Captain Thunderbolt, who escaped in 1863 to begin the crime spree which made him famous. It is alleged that his wife had swum across to the island with tools to effect his escape, following which they both swam back to the mainland. There is no significant evidence to support this claim.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1913 facilities on the island often referred to the name Biloela instead of Cockatoo Island to avoid the stigma of the island's convict past.\n\nThe dock was designed by Gother Kerr Mann, the island's Civil Engineer, and built between 1847 and 1857 utilising convict labour. The foundation stone of its ashlar lining was laid on 5 June 1854 by Governor Charles Augustus FitzRoy, with the dock being named in his honour. When completed in 1857, the dry dock was in length and in breadth, with an entrance wide. was the first sailing vessel to enter the dock in December 1857. The Fitzroy Dock was lengthened in 1870 and 1880 to be .\n\nThe dock was constructed under the supervision of the engineer Louis Samuel between 1882 and 1890. The dock was named after John Sutherland, the Secretary for Public Works and was large enough to accommodate ships of . The dock was modified in 1913 and in 1927 to accommodate Royal Australian Navy ships.\n\nIn 1864, the island was split between the NSW Department of Prisons and the Public Works Department, which expanded the dockyard around the foreshores. In 1869, the convicts were relocated to Darlinghurst Gaol and the prison complex became an Industrial School for Girls and also a Reformatory.\n\nShipbuilding began on Cockatoo Island in 1870. In 1913, Cockatoo Island was transferred to the Commonwealth Government to become the Naval Dockyard of the Royal Australian Navy. Over a period of several years prior to World War I, five slipways were either upgraded or constructed in the island, with Numbers 1 and 2 still retained by the Sydney Harbour Federation Trust.\n\nThe torpedo boat destroyer was the first naval ship launched at Cockatoo Island, after being built in the United Kingdom, disassembled, then sent to the Australian shipyard for reassembly. During World War I, the dockyard built, repaired and refitted many ships. At its peak during the war, some 4,000 men were employed on the island.\n\nIn 1933, Cockatoo Island was leased to the Cockatoo Docks & Engineering Company for 21 years. The lease was renewed in 1954 for a further 20 years and again in 1972 for 21 years.\n\nIn July 2010, at the 34th session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, Cockatoo Island and ten other Australian sites with a significant association with convict transportation were inscribed as a group on the World Heritage List as the Australian Convict Sites. The listing explains that the eleven sites present \"the best surviving examples of large-scale convict transportation and the colonial expansion of European powers through the presence and labour of convicts\". Of the eleven sites, as well as Cockatoo Island, the Hyde Park Barracks, Old Great North Road, and Old Government House at Parramatta are also within the Sydney region.\n\nParts of Cockatoo Island are the subject of other heritage listings. Listed on the Commonwealth Heritage List are:\n\n\n\nSince 2005, Cockatoo Island has hosted a number of major events. They range from collaborations with the Sydney Writers' Festival to an international freestyle motocross competition. A summary is provided in the following table:\n\nStewardship of Cockatoo Island was handed to the Sydney Harbour Federation Trust in 2001 to plan a new chapter for the island as publicly owned urban park. In 2003 the Harbour Trust completed a comprehensive plan for Cockatoo Island and other sites around Sydney Harbour managed by the Trust. The initial plan, approved by the Minister in 2003, proposed the revitalisation of Cockatoo Island as a landmark harbour attraction with the revival of maritime activities, the interpretation of its rich colonial and industrial heritage, and the creation of parklands and spaces for cultural events. In 2010, the Harbour Trust produced a revised management plan for the island.\n\nIn 2009 the Urban Islands masterclass was taught \"by 3 groups of international emerging architects on and about the controversial site of Cockatoo Island\":\n\nCross disciplinary creativity, experimental tactics and broad based participation are needed to inject Cockatoo Island with renewed life. The proposals developed in the 12-days play an active role in generating tangible proposals for Cockatoo Island, producing outcomes such as large-scale installations, futurologist proposals, media activism experiments, and greater harbour master planning visions.\n\nOne of the masterclass leaders was Geoff Manaugh, author of the influential BLDGBLOG. A second masterclass was planned for 2011.\n\nWhen a working dockyard, Sydney Ferries Limited and its successors operated services from Circular Quay to the island at shift changeover times.\n\nIn April 2007, the wharf reopened for a three-month trial coinciding with the reopening of the island as a tourist attraction. Since then services have expanded, and today it is served by Sydney Ferries Parramatta River services operating between Circular Quay and Parramatta. Its is also the terminus for all stops Cockatoo Island ferry services from Circular Quay. The single wharf is served by First Fleet and RiverCat class ferries.\n\n"}
{"id": "9460850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9460850", "title": "Conservation and restoration of new media art", "text": "Conservation and restoration of new media art\n\nThe conservation and restoration of new media art is the study and practice of techniques for sustaining new media art created using from materials such as digital, biological, performative, and other variable media.\n\nArtists' increased use of multi-media, digital, and internet media since the 1960s has called into question the conventional strategies by which society preserves, cares for, and redisplays cultural artifacts created with or on ephemera media formats. While the most obvious vulnerability of new media art is rapid technological obsolescence, the study of its other aspects that defy traditional conservation—including hybrid, contextual, or 'live' qualities—has provoked investigation into new strategies for preserving conceptual art, performance, installation art, video art, and even to a limited extent painting and sculpture.\n\nThe catchall term sometimes applied to such genres, \"variable media\", suggests that it is possible to recapture the experience of these works independently of the specific physical material and equipment used to display them in a given exhibition or performance. As the nature of multi-media artworks calls for the development of new standards, techniques, and metadata within preservation strategies, the idea that certain artworks incorporating an array of media elements could be variable opens up the possibility for experimental standards of preservation and reinterpretation.\n\nNevertheless, many new media preservationists work to integrate new preservation strategies with existing documentation techniques and metadata standards. This effort is made in order to remain compatible with previous frameworks and models on how to archive, store and maintain variable media objects in a standardized repository utilizing a systematized vocabulary, such as the Open Archival Information System model.\n\nWhile some of this research parallels and exploits progress made in the practice of Digital preservation and Web archiving, the preservation of new media art offers special challenges and opportunities. Whereas scientific data and legal records may be easily migrated from one platform to another without losing their essential function, artworks are often sensitive to the look and feel of the media in which they are embedded. On the other hand, artists who are invited to help imagine a long-term plan for their work often respond with creative solutions.\n\nThe acquisition and storage of the physical media-equipment, such as DVD players or computers, used in multi-media or digital artworks has proven a short-term tactic at best, as hardware can quickly become obsolete or can 'stale' in storage. Storage is also notoriously bad at capturing the contextual and live aspects of works such as Internet art, performance art and live electronic music.\n\nVariations on storage include:\n\nThe periodic transfer of an audiovisual or digital file from one cassette or disk to another device of identical format.\n\nThe cleaning or repair of an existing artifact or file, especially when the new version supersedes or replaces the original.\n\nThe use of computers linked by a persistent data loop to keep critical files in circulation or as multiple copies cloned on multiple hard drives.\n\nTo migrate a work of art is to upgrade its format from an aged medium to a more current one, such as from VHS to DVD, accepting that some changes in quality may occur while still maintaining the integrity of the original. This strategy assumes that preserving the content or information of an artwork, despite its change in media, trumps concerns over fidelity to the original look and feel.\n\nThe process of simulating an older operating system (or by extension, other supporting infrastructure) on a newer software or hardware platform is called emulation. As in migration, the impetus behind emulation is to keep a work alive though its original media may become obsolete; unlike migration, however, emulation of computer-based art preserves the original code underlying the artwork. Emulation software is currently in various stages of development and efficiency.\n\nIn 2004, the Guggenheim Museum, in conjunction with the Daniel Langlois Foundation, held an exhibition entitled \"Seeing Double: Emulation in Theory and Practice\" as a trial of emulation. In the exhibition, artworks operating on their original physical media were displayed alongside versions emulated on newer physical media. The exhibition was organized with the participation of computer researcher and emulation specialist, Jeff Rothenberg. In 1998, Rothenberg had published \"Avoiding Technological Quicksand: Finding a Viable Technical Foundation for Digital Preservation\".\n\nThe most powerful, but also most risky, preservation strategy for new media art is to reinterpret the work each time it is re-created. Reinterpretation may require rewriting code for a completely different platform, following site-specific instructions regarding installation, or recasting a work in a contemporary medium with the metaphoric value of an outdated medium. Reinterpretation is a dangerous technique when not warranted by the artist, but it may be the only way to re-create performed, installed, or networked art designed to vary with context.\n\nFirst developed in 2000 by Jon Ippolito, associate curator at the Guggenheim Museum, the Variable Media Questionnaire is an interactive form linked to a larger database, which is designed to capture behavioral information about digital, performative, and other variable media artworks upon their acquisition by a museum. The goal is to specifically define 'what it is' and 'what is needed' when the museum is acquiring a work of this kind. The goal of the Questionnaire is to assist artists and museum professionals in understanding which attributes of an artwork may change and how best to make those changes when future re-creations necessitate them.\n\nBased on the premise that some aspects of an artwork's logic or presentation can be considered independently from the physical context and equipment used to display that artwork, the Questionnaire captures information about the following \"behaviors\" or medium-independent aspects:\n\nCovers glazing; coating; support/structure/mounting; frame; acceptable change in surface.\n\nCovers space; boundary; access; lighting; sound; security; base/s; distribution of elements; display equipment for inert elements; architectural placement; equipment visibility.\n\nCovers props; set; costumes; performers; number of performers; format of instructions; instructions apply to...; documentation of new performances; audience location; boundary; synchronization of performance.\n\nCovers user input; interaction mechanism; maintenance.\n\nCovers relationship to artist master; location of master; status of master; acceptable fabricators and vendors; acceptable submasters or exhibition copy; permission to create submaster; fate of exhibition copy; permission to compress/digitize.\n\nCovers inert material; physical attributes of inert material; authorized fabricators and vendors; materials duplicated according to...; electronic equipment and hardware; fate of exhibition copies.\n\nCovers screen resolution; color palette; external data source; fonts; source openness.\n\nCovers exhibition context; external data sources; non-standard protocol; minimum bandwidth; network model.\n\nDeveloped by Richard Rinehart, Digital Media Director and Adjunct Curator, Berkeley Art Museum/Pacific Film Archive, MANS is described as a 'formal notation system for media art' that is in keeping with existing preservation frameworks and vocabularies currently being used to document and preserve other forms of art by museums.\n\nUsing the metaphor of the musical score, as a form of declarative and conceptual notation of music, Rinehart likens Media Art to musical compositions that are able to maintain their original integrity while being realized by different instruments or in different arrangements, over evolving time periods; in this sense, scores are considered to be inherently variable. In Rinehart's view, media art (in which logical information is considered separate from physical hardware) is able to be 'scored' based on the information acquired from a document like the Variable Media Questionnaire to be realized by different media-equipment.\n\nMaintaining the notion of the musical score, the Media Art Notation System is derived as (and has as its underlying structure) an interpretation of computer programming languages, drawing primarily from Digital Item Declaration Language (DIDL), a type of Extensible Markup Language (XML) that allows for greater, more granular descriptions of a multi-component digital object. MANS has three layers; the conceptual model of documentation, the preferred expression format (vocabulary) for the model (the interpretation of DIDL XML) and, its top layer, the score, which serves as a record of the work that is database-processable.\n\nIt is hoped that by interweaving the ideas of a declarative language and a more procedural language, MANS is able to act as a backbone to the artwork by being specifically suggestive though not overly prescriptive of how to best delineate and then, later, reinterpret an artwork.\n\nNumerous contemporary art conservators have contributed individual efforts toward new media art preservation:\n\nAs a deputy director and chief conservator, Stringari led laser research of a monochromatic painting by Ad Reinhardt and project on conservation of the works of László Moholy-Nagy. She later won the CAA/Heritage Preservation Award for Distinction for Scholarship and Conservation for her work on Ad Reinhardt's technique.\nHead of Time-based media conservation at the Tate, Laurenson is currently working to achieve her PhD in the care and management of time-based media works of art at University College London.\n\nDirector of Collections & Conservation at SFMOMA, Sterret is an avid collector and preserver of artworks made by contemporary artists. She is committed to the vital collaborations between artists, curators, technical experts, registrars, and conservators that support contemporary art conservation practice.\n\nThe variable media concept was developed in 1998, first as a creative strategy Ippolito brought to the adversarial collaborations produced with artists Janet Cohen and Keith Frank, and later as a preservation strategy called the Variable Media Initiative that he applied to endangered artworks in the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum's collection. In 2002 the Guggenheim partnered with the Daniel Langlois Foundation for Art, Science and Technology in Montreal to form the Variable Media Network, a concerted effort to develop a museum-standard, best practice for the collection and preservation of new media art. Apart from Stringari and Ippolito, other key members of the Variable Media Network included Alain Depocas, Director of the Centre for Research and Documentation, Daniel Langlois Foundation; and Caitlin Jones, former Daniel Langlois Variable Media Preservation Fellow at the Guggenheim Museum.\n\nAround this time similar investigations into the preservation of digital/media art were being led on the West Coast by Richard Rinehart, who published an article on the subject, \"The Straw that Broke the Museum's Back? Collecting and Preserving Digital/Media Art for the Next Century\", in 2000. Rinehart had also established Conceptual & Intermedia Arts Online (CIAO)with Franklin Furnace, the New York-based performance art-grants giving organization and archive/advocate of performance, 'ephemeral' or non-traditional art under the directorship of Martha Wilson.\n\nMembers of the Variable Media Network and CIAO subsequently joined forces with other organizations, including Rhizome.org, an affiliate of New York's New Museum of Contemporary Art, for collective preservation endeavors such as Archiving the Avant Garde. This broader coalition, operating under the rubric Forging the Future, is managed by the Still Water lab at the University of Maine and offers free, open-source tools for new media preservation, including the 3rd-generation Variable Media Questionnaire.\n\nIn 2002, Timothy Murray founded the Rose Goldsen Archive of New Media Art. Named after the pioneering critic of the commercialization of mass media, the late Professor Rose Goldsen of Cornell University. The Archive hosts international art work produced on CD-Rom, DVD-Rom, video, digital interfaces, and the internet. Its collection of supporting materials includes unpublished manuscripts and designs, catalogues, monographs, and resource guides to new media art. The curatorial vision emphasizes digital interfaces and artistic experimentation by international, independent artists. Designed as an experimental center of research and creativity, the Goldsen Archive includes materials by individual artists and collaborates on conceptual experimentation and archival strategies with international curatorial and fellowship projects.\n\nOther important initiatives include DOCAM, an international research alliance on the documentation and the conservation of the media arts heritage organized by the Daniel Langlois Foundation, and the International Network for the Conservation of Contemporary Art (INCCA), organized by the Netherlands Institute for Cultural Heritage (ICN).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50693287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50693287", "title": "Devotional pictures for swallowing", "text": "Devotional pictures for swallowing\n\nSchluckbildchen; from German, which means literally \"swallowable pictures\", are small notes of paper that have a sacred image on them with the purpose of being swallowed. They were used as a religious practice in the folk medicine throughout the eighteenth to twentieth century, and were believed to possess curative powers. Frequently found in the \"spiritual medicine chests\" of devout believers at that time, by swallowing them they wished to gain these curative powers. They are to be distinguished from \"Esszettel\"; from German, meaning \"edible notes of paper\", the latter only having text written on them.\n\n\"Esszettel\" had either adages, names of saints, prayers or bible verses written on them, usually in the shortened form of sigils. Occasionally, red paper was used. In Holstein, for example, feverish people were given slips saying \"„Fieber bleib aus / N.N. ist nicht zu Haus“\" (fever stay away, N.N. is not at home). In Protestant regions like Württemberg, East Frisia, Oldenburg or Hamburg, people symbolically consumed their own illness by eating a paper note that had their name, date of birth or some kind of phrase written on it. The slip was then stuck into a piece of bread or fruit, and the sick person ate it.\n\nHandwritten or printed \"Esszettel\" were even used to cure animals, from illnesses like rage disease or numbness (also called \"Fresszettel\"). The Sator square was thought to help against Rabies. In the Upper Bavarian region of \"Isarwinkel\" farmers treated their livestock with \"Esszettel\" to cure anthrax.\n\nUnfortunately, there are not many remains of such \"Esszettel\" today, one of the reasons lying in the fact that the church institutions had mostly seen \"Esszettel\" as pure superstition. Hints as to how they looked like can be found in literature, where triangle shaped \"Esszettel\" are mentioned, those not only with the purpose of being swallowed, though. The triangle shaped \"Esszettel\" had words or phrases printed on them that were repeated over and over, losing one or two letters with each repetition. That way, the sick person wished to overcome the illness bit by bit.\n\n\"Esszettel\" that have survived to the present day are usually remains of mass-produced stock which were sold on pilgrimage markets. These types of \"Esszettel\" were printed on stamp-like sheets of paper. They were either labeled identically or varied in a certain pattern. The latter version was called \"Lukaszettel\", and one of the printing plates used to print \"Lukaszettel\" has been preserved. Sometimes, \"Esszettel\" were printed on both sides, the back page complementing the front page. These are considered to be the oldest types of \"Esszettel\".\n\n\"Schluckbildchen\" had a square, rectangular or round shape and a feed size of 5 to 20 mm. So they were the smallest form of devotional art design. Small pictures of the 19th century were partly bigger, like the version that was produced in Einsiedeln (32x22 mm). \nAlso \"Schluckbildchen\" were produced on light sheets of paper; one sheet could hold 130 pieces. Both possible were series of one theme as well as different themes which would always have the same style.\n\"Schluckbildchen\" can be detected after the middle age. Up to the 19th century copper engraving printings were most likely, including some notes (for example in Mariazell) which were produced with a woodcarving technique. Later, colour printing was used; in the 20th century also photomechanical reproduction of old artworks.\n\n\"Schluckbildchen\" often show the Virgin Mary as a picture of mercy in a specific pilgrimage location, sometimes other saints or portrayals from Christian iconography, like the Nomen sacrum or Titulus INRI. Usually, under the theme an inscription is placed naming the location of pilgrimage or the saint that is portrayed. Frequently, someone made the effort also to put on details of the devotional art design. The symmetry of the rectangular, triangular, diamond-shaped, round or elliptical-shaped frame elements concentrated the effect of the picture on the central theme. Also effects like rays of light as well as the floating on clouds put emphasise on the transcendental character of the picture.\n\n\"Esszettel\" were sold not only by merchants in pilgrimage locations, but also by charlatans. It is passed on that a charlatan was travelling through Saxony in 1898, who gave \"Sympathiezettelchen\" (litaeral translation: sympathy notes) that were written in unreadable words, for an optional prize from 0.30 up to one Deutsche Mark to ill people to eat. \"Esszettel\" were also prescribed by a Saxon quack in 1913, known under the name “the Reinsdorf miner”.\n\nIn former times, \"Schluckbildchen\" were sold in all pilgrimage locations. Producers were (among others):\n\n\"Brandzettel\" (literal translation: notes of fire), which were used for the recovery of animals, were available at Franciscan in Tölz. \"Schluckbildchen\" were from time to time a flourishing business of some monasteries. At the beginning of the seventies in the 19th century, “Schluckbildchen” were still sold in Mariazell, Naples, and Sata Maria del Carmine in Florence. \"Schluckbildchen\" of Our Dear Virgin of Everlasting Aid were sold from Rome to the whole world. Ethnologist Dominik Wunderlin, department manager at the Museum der Kulturen Basel, reported in 2005 that a woman`s monastery in Bavaria, which was not named in that connection, was still giving away \"Schluckbildchen\" at the entrance gate.\n\nAs the terms \"Schluckbildchen\" and \"Esszettel\" suggest, their main medical purpose was of spiritual nature, also called “gratia medicinalis” during the Baroque period. The \"paper pills\" were either soaked in water, dissolved or added to dishes, in order to then be swallowed by the sick person. The ingestion of little pictures can be seen as a primitive and unmediated form of taking possession of the embodiment of the saint's curative power (or whoever was depicted). Both the ritual effort that was made to grasp the true meaning of the cult image, but also the memory of the pilgrimage adventure the sick person associated with the \"Schluckbildchen\", increased the miraculous effect. That held true despite the fact that many \"Schluckbildchen\" were hard to decipher and written in poor Latin. What remains unclear until today is the question, whether or not the consumption of \"Schluckbildchen\" was in any way connected to the practices of the Eucharist or the Sacramental bread.\n\nIn rarer cases, \"Schluckbildchen\" were used as letters of protection or as religious amulets common at that time (e.g. Wettersegen or Breverl). Furthermore, they were used as decorations for gingerbread and other pastries.\n\nIf nothing else was at hand, even holy images used in devotions were swallowed; either as a whole or torn apart and soaked in water. Lastly, it was quite common to eat images taken from Calendars of saints.\n\n\"Schluckbildchen\" were used in either practices of organized religion and folk religion. On August 3, 1903, the Roman Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith announced that as long as there were no superstitious practices involved, the use of \"Esszettel\" was officially granted. According to Eduard Stemplinger on the other hand, on July 29 the same congregation had already decided that swallowing water-soaked paper notes with Madonna images printed on them in order to heal illnesses certainly did not count as superstition.\n\n\"Esszettel\" were known as \"Fieberzettel\" (literal translation: fever notes) already in antiquity. In Carolingian Indiculus superstitionum, there was talk about a consumption of an image of deity which was baked in bread. In late Roman medicine the ash of burnt papyrus sheets („charta combusta“) was used as an ingredient for ointment and for orally and rectally applied medicine. Those notes were supposed to have a healing effect both labelled and unlabelled.\n\nResembling qualities to the \"Esszettel\" also has “fever altar bread” which was given away by the minorities in the end of the 18th century. Wafe was also used as healing medicine in the turn of the 15th century as it was described in the poem \"Bluemen der tugent\" by the Tyrolese Hans Vintler: \"„Vil di wellen auf oblat schreiben / und das Fieber damit vertreiben“.\"\n\nFurther examples are the grated clay Madonna , which were common up to the 20th century, and from which you grated the surface to eat. For the same purpose water was used, with which relics and resembling objects were cleaned. Also the “protecting notes”, which were known in the Thirty Years` War as art from Passau, were also swallowed while facilitating ritual rules.\n\nA printing plate, which was found in the second decade of the 19th century in Eastern Mongolia, proves that also in that culture “eating notes” were used. In small squares from approx. 34x29 mm the printing plate contains several Tibetan spells that enclose also the connected purpose. Apparently, it originated from Tibetan Lamaistic folk medicine and was probably used by a Lamaistic migrant medical practitioner. Depending on the indication those notes had several instructions for use, e.g. “Eat when having flu” or “Eat nine when having stomach ache”.\n\nFrom Uganda it is known that in the end of the 1990s followers of a famous Christian charismatic preacher and magic healer soaked his photographs in water and drank from it in order to swallow up parts of his healing power.\n\n"}
{"id": "13046276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13046276", "title": "Dying Slave", "text": "Dying Slave\n\nThe Dying Slave is a sculpture by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo. Created between 1513 and 1516, it was to serve with another figure, the \"Rebellious Slave\", at the tomb of Pope Julius II. It is a marble figure 2.15 metres (7' 4\") in height, and is held at the Louvre, Paris.\n\nIn 1976 the art historian Richard Fly wrote that it \"suggests that moment when life capitulates before the relentless force of dead matter\".\nHowever, in a recent scholarly volume entitled \"The Slave in European Art\", Charles Robertson discusses the \"Dying Slave\" in the context of real slavery in Italy during the time of the Renaissance.\n\nThirteen reproductions of the \"Dying Slave\" adorn the top storey of the 12th arrondissement police station in Paris. Although Art Deco in style, the building was designed in 1991 by architects and Miriam Teitelbaum.\n\n"}
{"id": "14342476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14342476", "title": "Encyclopedia Africana", "text": "Encyclopedia Africana\n\nAfricana: The Encyclopedia of the African and African-American Experience edited by Henry Louis Gates and \nAnthony Appiah (Basic Civitas Books 1999, 2nd ed. Oxford University Press, 2005, ) is a compendium of Africana studies including African studies and the \"Pan-African diaspora\" inspired by W. E. B. Du Bois' project of an \"Encyclopedia Africana\". Du Bois envisioned \"an \"Encyclopedia Africana\",\" which was to be \"unashamedly Afro-Centric but not indifferent to the impact of the outside world.\"\n\nThe first edition appeared in a single volume, of which about a third each was dedicated to North American African-American studies, to Afro-Latin American topics of Latin America and the Caribbean and to Africa proper. The second edition was published by Oxford University Press in five volumes, including more than 3500 entries on 3960 pages.\n\nDaniel Alexander Payne Murray was one of the first Afro-Americans to work as a librarian at the Library of Congress in 1871. In 1899 Murray organized an exhibit at the 1900 Paris Exposition on Negro authors. Under his direction, his award-winning exhibit became the core of the Library of Congress's Colored Author Collection. Murray planned to expand his collection and create an encyclopedia of African-American achievement. Although he never completed the project, the idea of an encyclopedia that explored the black experience was revived and expanded by W. E. B. Du Bois. In 1901 Du Bois widened the scope of the project to encompass the entire African diaspora. He suggested that the encyclopedia be called the \"Encyclopedia Africana\" in a similar fashion to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". Du Bois envisioned a scientific and comprehensive work on Africa and peoples of African descent that would refute the Enlightenment notion of blacks as devoid of civilization and the hallmarks of humanity. Due to lack of support from the established philanthropies, the project died.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29705550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29705550", "title": "Fair Extension", "text": "Fair Extension\n\nFair Extension is a novella by Stephen King, published in his collection \"Full Dark, No Stars\" (2010).\n\nIn August 2001, on his way home in Derry, Maine, Dave Streeter sees a man with a setup by a road to the airport. He goes out and talks with the man, George Elvid, who claims to have lived for centuries and tells Streeter that he sells extensions of various types. Elvid offers Streeter, who suffers from terminal lung cancer, a chance to live for approximately fifteen years if he pays fifteen percent of his salary for every one of those years and transfers the \"weight\" of his misfortune onto someone he knows. Elvid emphasizes that it has to be someone that Streeter truly hates.\n\nStreeter selects Tom Goodhugh, his best friend since childhood whom he has secretly hated for years. Streeter has done everything for Goodhugh, who has taken him for granted the entire time. Goodhugh got straight-As with Streeter doing his homework throughout their formative years. Later, Goodhugh stole Streeter's girlfriend in college and married her. Goodhugh has founded a successful waste removal business with Streeter's assistance, lives a lavish lifestyle with three children on the fast track to great lives, and doesn't look like age has caught up with him, unlike Streeter.\n\nA couple of days later, Streeter goes to his doctor, who tells him his tumors are shrinking. Four months later, Streeter is declared cancer-free, which perplexes his doctor. The good luck continues in subsequent years, as Streeter is promoted several times at work and his marriage becomes joyous and rich with significant lifestyle improvements. His children begin a long line of career successes: his son becomes a millionaire after creating two bestselling video games and his daughter gets her dream job as a journalist at the \"Boston Globe\" after graduating from the Columbia School of Journalism.\n\nGoodhugh's misfortunes start to surface a few months after Streeter's deal, when his wife is diagnosed with breast cancer that has spread to her lymph nodes; she dies six months later. His business begins to fail after his accountant embezzles $2 million and skips town. Goodhugh's children also suffer: his middle child, Carl, has a heart attack and is left with permanent brain damage; his oldest child, Gracie, loses her husband to a drunk driver, loses all her teeth after developing pyorrhea, and eventually gives birth to a stillborn baby; and his youngest son, Jake, turns down an athletic scholarship to help save the garbage business. \n\nWhile Streeter continues to enjoy his good fortune, Goodhugh's life becomes grim and joyless. Gracie is forced to move back home and becomes deeply depressed; Carl's full-time caretaker is let go, leading to his death after choking on an apple; and Jake is sent to prison for stabbing his wife. Goodhugh's waste disposal company is seized by the EPA. Goodhugh himself develops gout and psoriasis, begins drinking heavily, and experiences major weight loss. He contemplates suicide, likens himself to Job, and believes he has \"offended God\". Although Streeter pretends to be caring and supportive, he's secretly glad as he sees Goodhugh struggle to cope with his family's misfortune.\n\nThe story ends with Streeter and his wife stargazing. She confesses her sadness over the Goodhugh family's troubles, and he assures her that this is only fair, and that some people are simply dealt a bad hand by life. They catch a glimpse of the planet Venus, and Streeter tells his wife to make a wish. She cannot think of anything they need, and the story ends with Streeter making a single wish: for more.\n\n"}
{"id": "55537921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55537921", "title": "Film-Philosophy", "text": "Film-Philosophy\n\nFilm-Philosophy is an open access peer-reviewed academic journal dedicated to the engagement between film studies and philosophy. David Sorfa is the current editor-in-chief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20208578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208578", "title": "François Falc'hun", "text": "François Falc'hun\n\nFrançois Falc'hun (20 April 1901 – 13 January 1991) was a controversial French linguist known for his theories about the origin of the Breton language. He was also an ordained Canon in the Catholic clergy. \n\nFalc'hun was professor at the Universities of Rennes and Brest. Contrary to the mainstream opinion of linguists, Falc'hun took the view that Breton was derived from the Gaulish form of Continental Celtic, rather than from the Brythonic Celtic that were introduced by British migrants. He was accused of using linguistics to promote a French nationalist political agenda.\n\nFalc'hun's early work included an edition of the writings of Jean-Marie Perrot. He created a particular Breton orthography (known as \"university\" orthography) which was intended to replace the spelling system known as \"Peurunvan\", used from 1911 to 1941. His spelling, which does not use \"zh\", also abandons the Breton \"c'h\" convention, introduced in the seventeenth century, and which is even used in the official French form of Falc'hun's own name.\n\nIn 1951 Falc'hun developed his view that Breton developed from native Gaulish, arguing that the incoming Britons encountered a Gaulish-speaking rather than Latin-speaking population, and that the two variants of Celtic merged. Criticising the views of Joseph Loth and Léon Fleuriot, Falc'hun claimed that the Vannetais dialect of eastern Breton was almost wholly Gaulish. \"I am convinced that the dialect of Vannes, especially in southern Blavet, is a Gallic survival, little influenced by British contributions, and other dialects are simply Gaulish marked by the language of origin of the island immigrants\".\n\nFalc'hun's views became controversial after the publication of his 1981 book, \"Perspectives nouvelles sur l’histoire de la langue bretonne\" (New Perspectives on the History of the Breton Language), in which his theories were linked to nationalist ideology. It was published in a series entitled \"The nation in question\", as part of several texts entitled \"the critical national ideology of...\". These books were published in the context of a struggle against Breton nationalism, which sought to emphasise that the Bretons were non-French. Because of this, Falc'hun became a hate figure among Breton nationalists. According to his friend Françoise Morvan, he suffered numerous \"telephone harassment campaigns\".\n\nLéon Fleuriot has accepted Falc'hun's view that Breton was influenced by surviving local forms of Celtic, but rejects Falc'hun's argument that Vannetais is native Gaulish.\n\n"}
{"id": "911519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=911519", "title": "Freedom of information", "text": "Freedom of information\n\nFreedom of information is an extension of freedom of speech, a fundamental human right recognized in international law, which is today understood more generally as freedom of expression in any medium, be it orally, in writing, print, through the Internet or through art forms. This means that the protection of freedom of speech as a right includes not only the content, but also the means of expression. Freedom of information also refers to the right to privacy in the content of the Internet and information technology. As with the right to freedom of expression, the right to privacy is a recognised human right and freedom of information acts as an extension to this right. Lastly, freedom of information can include opposition to patents, opposition to copyrights or opposition to intellectual property in general. The international and United States Pirate Party have established political platforms based largely on freedom of information issues.\n\nIn June 2006 nearly 70 countries had freedom of information legislations applying to information held by government bodies and in certain circumstances to private bodies. In 19 of these countries the freedom of information legislation also applied to private bodies. Access to information was increasingly recognised as a prerequisite for transparency and accountability of governments, as facilitating consumers' ability to make informed choices, and as safeguarding citizens against mismanagement and corruption. This has led an increasing number of countries to enact freedom of information legislation in the past 10 years. In recent years, private bodies have started to perform functions which were previously carried out by public bodies. Privatisation and de-regulation saw banks, telecommunications companies, hospitals and universities being run by private entities, leading to demands for the extension of freedom of information legislation to cover private bodies.\n\nAs of 2006, 70 countries had comprehensive freedom of information legislation for public bodies, nearly half of which had been enacted in the past 10 years. Such legislation was pending in a further 50 countries.\n\nAs of 2006, the following 19 countries had freedom of information legislation that extended to government bodies and private bodies: Antigua and Barbuda, Angola, Armenia, Colombia, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Panama, Poland, Peru, South Africa, Turkey, Trinidad and Tobago, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. The degree to which private bodies are covered under freedom of information legislation varies, in Angola, Armenia and Peru the legislation only applies to private companies that perform what are considered to be public functions. In the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Finland, Trinidad and Tobago, Slovakia, Poland and Iceland private bodies that receive public funding are subject to freedom of information legislation. Freedom of information legislation in Estonia, France and UK covers private bodies in certain sectors. In South Africa the access provisions of the Promotion of Access to Information Act have been used by individuals to establish why their loan application has been denied. The access provisions have also been used by minority shareholders in private companies and environmental groups, who were seeking information on the potential environmental damage caused by company projects.\n\nIn 1983 the United Nations Commission on Transnational Corporations adopted the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection stipulating eight consumer rights, including \"consumer access to adequate information to enable making informed choices according to individual wishes and needs\". Access to information became regarded as a basic consumer right, and preventive disclosure, i.e. the disclosure of information on threats to human lives, health and safety, began to be emphasized.\n\nSecretive decision making by company directors and corporate scandal led to freedom of information legislation to be published for the benefits of investors. Such legislation was first adopted in Britain in the early 20th century, and later in North America and other countries. Disclosure regimes for the benefit of investors regained attention at the beginning of the 21st century as a number of corporate scandals were linked to accounting fraud and company director secrecy. Starting with Enron, the subsequent scandals involving Worldcom, Tyco, Adelphia and Global Crossing prompted the US Congress to impose new information disclosure obligations on companies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.\n\nFreedom of information (or information freedom) also refers to the protection of the right to freedom of expression with regard to the Internet and information technology. Freedom of information may also concern censorship in an information technology context, i.e. the ability to access Web content, without censorship or restrictions.\n\nThe World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) Declaration of Principles adopted in 2003 reaffirms democracy and the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Declaration also makes specific reference to the importance of the right to freedom of expression for the \"Information Society\" in stating:\nWe reaffirm, as an essential foundation of the Information Society, and as outlined in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; that this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Communication is a fundamental social process, a basic human need and the foundation of all social organisation. It is central to the Information Society. Everyone, everywhere should have the opportunity to participate and no one should be excluded from the benefits the Information Society offers. \nThe 2004 WSIS Declaration of Principles also acknowledged that \"it is necessary to prevent the use of information resources and technologies for criminal and terrorist purposes, while respecting human rights\". Wolfgang Benedek comments that the WSIS Declaration only contains a number of references to human rights and does not spell out any procedures or mechanism to assure that human rights are considered in practice.\n\nThe digital rights group Hacktivismo, founded in 1999, argues that access to information is a basic human right. The group's beliefs are described fully in the \"Hacktivismo Declaration\" which calls for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) to be applied to the Internet. The Declaration recalls the duty of member states to the ICCPR to protect the right to freedom of expression with regard to the internet and in this context freedom of information. The Hacktivismo Declaration recognises \"the importance to fight against human rights abuses with respect to reasonable access to information on the Internet\" and calls upon the hacker community to \"study ways and means of circumventing state sponsored censorship of the internet\" and \"implement technologies to challenge information rights violations\". The Hacktivismo Declaration does, however, recognise that the right to freedom of expression is subject to limitations, stating \"we recognised the right of governments to forbid the publication of properly categorized state secrets, child pornography, and matters related to personal privacy and privilege, among other accepted restrictions.\" However, the Hacktivismo Declaration states \"but we oppose the use of state power to control access to the works of critics, intellectuals, artists, or religious figures.\"\n\nOn October 29, 2008 the Global Network Initiative (GNI) was founded upon its \"Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy\". The Initiative was launched in the 60th Anniversary year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and is based on internationally recognized laws and standards for human rights on freedom of expression and privacy set out in the UDHR, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). Participants in the Initiative include the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Human Rights Watch, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, other major companies, human rights NGOs, investors, and academics.\n\nAccording to reports Cisco Systems was invited to the initial discussions but didn't take part in the initiative. Harrington Investments, which proposed that Cisco establish a human rights board, has dismissed the GNI as a voluntary code of conduct not having any impact. Chief executive John Harrington called the GNI \"meaningless noise\" and instead calls for bylaws to be introduced that force boards of directors to accept human rights responsibilities.\n\nJo Glanville, editor of the Index on Censorship, states that \"the internet has been a revolution for censorship as much as for free speech\". The concept of freedom of information has emerged in response to state sponsored censorship, monitoring and surveillance of the internet. Internet censorship includes the control or suppression of the publishing or accessing of information on the Internet.\nAccording to the Reporters without Borders (RSF) \"internet enemy list\" the following states engage in pervasive internet censorship: Cuba, Iran, Maldives, Myanmar/Burma, North Korea, Syria, Tunisia, Uzbekistan and Vietnam. A widely publicised example is the so-called \"Great Firewall of China\" (in reference both to its role as a network firewall and to the ancient Great Wall of China). The system blocks content by preventing IP addresses from being routed through and consists of standard firewall and proxy servers at the Internet gateways. The system also selectively engages in DNS poisoning when particular sites are requested. The government does not appear to be systematically examining Internet content, as this appears to be technically impractical. Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China is conducted under a wide variety of laws and administrative regulations. In accordance with these laws, more than sixty Internet regulations have been made by the People's Republic of China (PRC) government, and censorship systems are vigorously implemented by provincial branches of state-owned ISPs, business companies, and organizations.\n\nIn 2010, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, speaking on behalf of the United States, declared 'we stand for a single internet where all of humanity has equal access to knowledge and ideas'. In her 'Remarks on Internet Freedom' she also draws attention to how 'even in authoritarian countries, information networks are helping people discover new facts and making governments more accountable', while reporting President Barack Obama's pronouncement 'the more freely information flows, the stronger societies become'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1071653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071653", "title": "Genre studies", "text": "Genre studies\n\nGenre studies is an academic subject which studies genre theory as a branch of general critical theory in several different fields, including the literary or artistic, linguistic, or rhetorical.\n\nLiterary genre studies is a structuralist approach to the study of genre and genre theory in literary theory, film theory, and other cultural theories. The study of a genre in this way examines the structural elements that combine in the telling of a story and finds patterns in collections of stories. When these elements (or semiotic codes) begin to carry inherent information, a genre emerges.\n\nLinguistic genre studies is best described by two schools of literary genre, the Systemic Functional Linguistics or \"SFL\", scholars of this school believe that language structure is an integral part of a text's social context and function. SFL scholars often conduct research that focuses on genres usefulness in pedagogy.\n\nEnglish for Specific Purposes or \"ESP\" is another school of genre studies that examines the pedagogical implications of genre. ESP scholars focus on how genre can help non-native English speakers on how to use the language and its conventions through the application of genre analysis, the identification of discourse elements such as register, formation of conceptual and genre structures, modes of thought and action that exist in the specific discourse community, etc for bringing changes in epideictic schemata.\n\nAnother one is Rhetorical Genre Studies or \"RGS\" studies genre as social action. RGS emerged from Carolyn R. Miller's article \"Genre as Social Action\".\n\nSystemic functional linguistics scholars believe that language is organized within cultures based on cultural ideologies. The \"systemic\" of SFL refers to the system as a whole, in which linguistic choices are made. SFL is based largely on the work of Michael Halliday, who believed that individuals make linguistic choices based on the ideologies of the systems that those individuals inhabit. For Halliday, there is a \"network of meanings\" within a culture, that constitutes the \"social semiotic\" of that culture. This \"social semiotic\" is encoded and maintained by the discourse system of the culture. For Halliday, contexts in which texts are produced recur, in what he calls \"situation types.\" People raised within a specific culture become accustomed to the \"situation types\" that occur within that culture, and are more easily able to maneuver through the \"situation types\" within that culture than people who were not brought up within it.\n\nHalliday's approach to cultural context in the formation of recurrent \"situation types\" influenced other scholars, such as J.R. Martin. Martin led the SFL pedagogical approach, which emphasized the role of context in text formation. Martin and his associates believed that process-based approaches to education ignored the cultural boundaries of texts, and privileged middle- and upper- class students at the expense of students from lower-class backgrounds. According to Martin and other SFL scholars, an explicit focus on genre in literature would help literacy teaching. Focusing on genre reveals the contexts that influences texts, and teaches those contexts to students, so that they can create texts that are culturally informed.\n\nThrough their genre work in schools, Martin and his associates developed a definition of genre as a \"staged, goal-oriented, social process.\" In the Martinian genre model, genres are staged because they accomplish tasks that require multiple steps; they are goal-oriented because their users are motivated to see the completion of the stages to the end; and they are social because users address their texts to specific audiences.\n\nEnglish for Specific Purposes scholarship has been around since the 1960s, but ESP scholars did not begin using genre as a pedagogical approach until the 1980s, when John Swales published \"Genre Analysis: English in Academic and Research Settings\", in which Swales laid out the methodological approach that brought together ESP and genre analysis. Swales identified two characteristics of ESP genre analysis: its focus on academic research in English and its use of genre analysis for applied ends. ESP focuses on specific genres within spheres of activity, such as the medical profession, but it also focuses on the broader concept of communicative purposes within fields of study.\n\nEnglish for Specific Purposes shares some characteristics with SFL studies. Both believe that linguistic features are connected to social context and function, and both aim to help disadvantaged students grasp the system in which texts are created so that they can create similar texts, by teaching them the relationship between language and social function. Both try to accomplish their goals by teaching specific genres to underprivileged users.\n\nHowever, there are also some important differences between ESP and SFL. Whereas SFL scholars focus on teaching basic genre structures to primary and secondary school students, ESP scholars are focused on teaching Professional and Academic disciplinary genres to University- and graduate-level students. ESP students tend to be more bound to discursive genre subjects, within very particular contexts. ESP focuses on micro-level genres and contexts, whereas SFL focuses on macro-level contexts.\n\nRhetorical Genre Studies (a term coined by Aviva Freedman) scholars examine genre as typified social action, as ways of acting based on recurrent social situations. This founding principle for RGS was taken from Carolyn R. Miller's essay \"Genre as Social Action,\" which was published in 1984. In her article, Miller examines Frank Lloyd Bitzer's notion of exigence as a reaction to social situations, and Kenneth Burke's notion of \"motive\" as human action. Using Bitzer, particularly, Miller believes it is possible to examine exigence as \"an external cause of discourse.\" Ultimately, she is able to view situations as social constructions. Genres are typified ways of responding to recurring social constructions.\n\nRGS scholarship has evolved beyond Miller's founding definition of genre. Carol Berkenkotter and Thomas Huckin begin with the notion that genre is knowledge foundation, and argue that genres embody communities' knowledge and ways of acting. For Berkenkotter and Huckin, genre becomes a way of navigating social activity. As such, it is dynamic, because the conditions of social activity are always in flux. Recurrence, they claim, involves variation. Berkenkotter and Huckin redefine genre as social cognition.\n\nThe notion of \"uptake\" is also integral to RGS scholars' understanding of genre. Anne Freadman uses uptake to describe the ways in which genres interact with each other in her articles \"Uptake\" and \"Anyone for Tennis?\". She uses the game of tennis to explain the ways genres interact. Tennis players, she says, do not exchange tennis balls, they exchange shots. Each shot only has meaning within the game, its rules, and the context of the game being play. Shots are meaningful because they take place in a game. The game is meaningful because it takes place within \"ceremonials.\" Thus, the final at Wimbledon provides a different context than a game between friends. Genres are the games that take place within ceremonials, and shots are utterances, or verbal exchanges. We cannot really understand a text without understanding the ceremonial in which it occurs. \"Uptake\" is the illocutionary response elicited by particular situations.\n\nAmy Devitt's research has further complicated the RGS landscape. In \"Writing Genres\", Devitt distinguishes between the \"context of genres,\" \"genre repertoires,\" \"genre systems,\" and \"genre sets.\" The \"context of genres\" is the overall set of genres available in a culture. A \"genre repertoire\" refers to the set of genres that a specific group uses to achieve its purposes. \"Genre systems\" are the sets of genres that function within an activity system. Finally, \"genre sets\" are more loosely defined sets of genres that function within an activity system, but only define a limited range of actions within that system. For instance, if we were to take a courtroom as an activity system, a genre set could be defined as only those genres used by the judge. Studying the \"context of genres,\" \"genre repertoires,\" \"genre systems,\" and \"genre sets\" enables researchers to study the relationships and power structures of activity systems.\n\nConventions are usual indicators such as phrases, themes, quotations, or explanations that readers expect to find in a certain genre. They could be considered \"stereotypes\" of that genre. For example, Science fiction is expected to be set in the future, and have futuristic events, technological advances, and futuristic ideas. Realism is expected to contain a story about people who could pass as real, struggling through real-life situations and/or real world events, etc.\n\nCritic Paul Alpers explains that literary conventions are like meeting places where past and present writers \"come together\" to determine the form a convention should take in a particular literary instance (work). In practical terms, this coming together is a matter of the present writer consulting the work of predecessors, but Alpers wants to connote the sense of active negotiation and accommodation that takes place between the writer and the genre he or she is working in (a genre defined by other people). According to Alpers, a misconception persists in modern criticism that literary convention is an \"arbitrary and inflexible practice, established by widespread usage and imposed from without.\" Convention in this sense is the \"antithesis of the personal and individual\"; it is \"felt to constrain the [writer].\" Alpers reconceptualizes literary convention as something \"constitutive and enabling.\" For him, generic conventions are \"not fixed procedures imposed by impersonal tradition;\" rather, they are the living \"usages of other [writers],\" \"the shared practice of those who come together.\" Thinking of generic conventions as a practice shared by many users, allows later writers to exercise the same degree of control over convention as those who predated them. Far from constraining writers, convention provides flexibility to preserve certain aspects of a genre and transform others. Convention in this sense enables \"individual expression, because the [writer] is seen as responsive to, even when challenging, his predecessors and fellows.\"\n\nGenre theorist David Fishelov also deals with generic conventions—he calls them \"generic rules\"—in elaborating his explanatory metaphor of \"literary genres as social institutions\" in the book \"Metaphors of Genre: The Role of Analogies in Genre Theory\". Fishelov, like Alpers, sees generic conventions as an inescapably \"vital part of the literary communicative situation,\" linking present and past writers to each other, as well as to readers. Established conventions are \"a challenge, or a horizon, against which the writer and his reader have to define themselves.\" The writer may respond to this challenge by \"stretch[ing] the generic rules.\"\n\nFishelov draws his metaphor of genre as social institution from a passage in René Welleck and Austin Warren's \"Theory of Literature\":\n\nThis formulation ascribes agency to actors within social institutions. In the same way institutions like churches, universities, and states organize social actors to accomplish collective social purposes, literary genres organize relationships between writers and readers to accomplish communicative purposes, which change over time. Genres are not static, but rather, like social institutions, persist through the constant renovation of their conventions by individuals. Fishelov is particularly helpful in theorizing the role of the reader in alternately constraining and motivating generic change:\n\nReader expectations operate as both a constraint on the writer and a \"latent demand for innovation.\" The writer \"is expected to manipulate the existing conventions and to carry them (at least) one step further…. From the writer's perspective, the generic convention is a model to follow but also a challenge to overcome.\" Fishelov explains that writers choose or are compelled to manipulate prevailing conventions for a variety of aesthetic and thematic reasons.\n\nGenre theory or genre studies got underway with the Greeks. The Greeks felt that the type of person an author was would be directly responsible for the type of poetry they wrote. The Greeks also believed that certain metrical forms were suited only to certain genres. Aristotle said, \nWe have, then, a natural instinct for representation and for tune and rhythm—and starting with these instincts men very gradually developed them until they produced poetry out of their improvisations. Poetry then split into two kinds according to the poet's nature. For the more serious poets represented the noble deeds of noble men, while those of a less exalted nature represented the actions of inferior men, at first writing satire just as the others wrote hymns and eulogies. This is all based on Plato's mimetic principle. Exalted people will, in imitation of exaltation, write about exalted people doing exalted things, and vice versa with the \"lower\" types (Farrell, 383). Genre was not a black-and-white issue even for Aristotle, who recognized that though the \"Iliad\" is an epic it can be considered a tragedy as well, both because of its tone as well as the nobility of its characters. However, most of the Greek critics were less acutely aware—if aware at all—of the inconsistencies in this system. For these critics, there was no room for ambiguity in their literary taxonomy because these categories were thought to have innate qualities that could not be disregarded.\n\nThe Romans carried on the Greek tradition of literary criticism. The Roman critics were quite happy to continue on in the assumption that there were essential differences between the types of poetry and drama. There is much evidence in their works that Roman writers themselves saw through these ideas and understood genres and how they function on a more advanced level. However, it was the critics who left their mark on Roman literary criticism, and they were not innovators.\n\nAfter the fall of Rome, when the scholastic system took over literary criticism, genre theory was still based on the essential nature of genres. This is most likely because of Christianity's affinity for Platonic concepts. This state of affairs persisted until the 18th century.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, the theory of genre based on classical thought began to unravel beneath the intellectual chafing of the Enlightenment. The introduction of the printing press brought texts to a larger audience. Then pamphlets and broadsides began to diffuse information even farther, and a greater number of less privileged members of society became literate and began to express their views. Suddenly authors of both \"high\" and \"low\" culture were now competing for the same audience. This worked to destabilize the classical notions of genre, while still drawing attention to genre because new genres like the novel were being generated (Prince, 455).\n\nLocke, in \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690), had reduced data to its smallest part: the simple idea derived from sense. However, as the science of cognition became more precise it was shown that even this simple idea derived from sense was itself divisible. This new information prompted David Hartley to write in his \"Observation on Man\" (1749), How far the Number of Orders may go is impossible to say. I see no Contradiction in supposing it infinite, and a great Difficulty in stopping at any particular Size. (Prince, 456). \n\nThe possibility of an infinite number of types alarmed theologians of the time because their assumption was that rigorously applied empiricism would uncover the underlying divine nature of creation, and now it appeared that rigorously applied empiricism would only uncover an ever-growing number of types and subsequent sub-types.\n\nIn order to re-establish the divine in categorization, the new taxonomical system of aesthetics arose. This system offered first beauty, and then the sublime as the taxonomical device. The problem with Aesthetics was that it assumed the divine and thus the sublime must underlie all these categories, and thus, the ugly would become beautiful at some point. The paradox is glaring.\n\nEver since the late 18th century literary critics have been trying to find a theory of genre that would be more commensurate with the realities of individual texts within genres. The evolution of genre took many twists and turns through the 19th and 20th centuries. It was heavily influenced by the deconstructionist thought and the concept of relativity. In 1980, the instability engendered by these two new modes of thought came to a head in a paper written by Jacques Derrida titled, \"The Law of Genre.\" In the article Derrida first articulates the idea that individual texts participate in rather than belong to certain genres. He does this by demonstrating that the \"mark of genre\" is not itself a member of a genre or type. Thus, the very characteristic that signifies genre defies classification. However, at the end of this essay, Derrida hints at what might be a more fruitful direction for genre theory. \"There, that is the whole of it, it is only what 'I,' so that say, here kneeling at the edge of literature, can see. In sum, the law. The law summoning: what 'I' can sight and what 'I' can say that I sight in this site of a recitation where I/we is.\" By which Derrida means that not only is taxonomy a subjective sport, but due to this very fact, \"the place and time the taxonomical act takes place\" deserves further study.\n\nThen, in 1986, Ralph Cohen published a paper in response to Derrida's thoughts titled \"History and Genre.\" In this article Cohen argued that \ngenre concepts in theory and in practice arise, change, and decline for historical reasons. And since each genre is composed of texts that accrue, the grouping is a process, not a determinate category. Genres are open categories. Each member alters the genre by adding, contradicting, or changing constituents, especially those of members most closely related to it. The process by which genres are established always involves the human need for distinction and interrelation. Since the purposes of critics who establish genres vary, it is self-evident that the same texts can belong to different groupings of genres and serve different generic purposes. (Cohen, 204)\n\n\"Genre Evolution in RGS\"\n\nRGS scholars largely agree that while genres are indeed dynamic and constantly evolving entities, they are difficult to change. Amy Devitt describes this bind, as she considers a genre to be \"both the product and the process that creates it\" (580). To Devitt, genres not only respond to recurrent situations, but they construct them as well. This phenomenon makes theorizing genre evolution challenging. Carolyn R. Miller even cautions against describing genre change as \"evolution,\" as evolution implies progress. Still, many RGS scholars have theorized how genres change. Jo Ann Yates and Wanda Orlikowski offer that \"one person cannot single-handedly effect the change of an institutionalized structure; other relevant participants must adopt and reinforce the attempted change for it to be implemented and sustained in practice\" (108). Yates and Orlikowski then describe how genres evolve: they claim that genres change when a kairotic moment presents itself, and the rhetor, instead of choosing to employ the \"genre most appropriately enacted\" tries a new method of which the audience accepts as new way of responding to the recurrent situation (119). See kairos. Natasha Artemeva has made similar observations based on an eight-year ethnographic survey that followed engineering students from academia and into the workplace environment. Artemeva observed two of her subjects impact the evolution of workplace genres when a kairotic moment presented itself (164). Yet these former student's success in changing the workplace genre also depended on three individually acquired skills: 1) \"cultural capital\", 2) \"domain content expertise\", and 3) \"agency in the rhetor's ability\" to not only see when a kairotic moment presented itself, but \"to also seize the opportunity\" (167). Thomas Helscher is not as optimistic; he writes, the \"rhetorical constitution of [a] discourse community operates as a counterweight to the process of community growth and change\" (30) and argues that the \"transformation of the fundamental generic conventions by which communities constitutes themselves...is paradigmatic of the process of social transformation\" (32).\n\nThe definition of genre from dictionary.com is \"a class or category of artistic endeavor having a particular form, context, technique, or the like.\" Although it seems that genre should be easy to define, the finer points of textual categorization are not yet established.\n\nGenres, according to Daniel Chandler, create order to simplify the mass of available information. Creating categories promotes organization instead of chaos. Jane Feuer has divided ways to categorize genres into three different groups. The first is aesthetic. By using this method one can organize according to certain sets of characteristics, and so the overall work of the artist is not disparaged by generalization. The second classification method is ritual. Ritual uses its own culture to help classify. If one performs a ritual associated with a system of ritual, one can be said to be practicing as a member of that system. The common taxonomic method is ideological. This occurs most often in the marketing of texts, music, and movies. The effectiveness of this type of categorization can be measured by how well the public accepts these categories as valid.\n\nAmy J. Devitt focuses on the rhetorical approach to genre. Scholars generally recognize the restrictions placed on works that have been classified as a certain genre. However, viewing genre as a rhetorical device gives the author and the reader more freedom and \"allows for choices.\" Genres are not free-standing entities, but are actually intimately connected and interactive amongst themselves. Rhetorical theory of genre recognizes that genres are generated by authors, readers, publishers, and the entire array of social forces that act upon a work at every stage of its production.\n\nThis recognition does not make the taxonomy of texts easy. Chandler points out that very few works have all the characteristics of the genre in which they participate. Also, due to the interrelatedness of genres, none of them is clearly defined at the edges, but rather fade into one another. Genre works to promote organization, but there is no absolute way to classify works, and thus genre is still problematic and its theory still evolving.\n\nMoreover, the metagenre as a concept has been an important point to study. According to Giltrow, metagenre is \"situated language about situated language\". Metagenres such as institutional guidelines can be \"ruling out certain kinds of expression, endorsing others\", constraining and enabling. The concept of metagenre also provides a valuable way to understand the dynamics of institutional interrelations between genres. In the mental health discourse, for example, has been demonstrated the metageneric function of the American Psychiatric Association's (DSM) for standardizing and mediating the localized epistemological communicative practices of psychiatrists.\n\nGenre began as an absolute classification system in ancient Greece. Poetry, prose and performance had a specific and calculated style that related to the theme of the story. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best. This classical system worked well as long as the arts were largely directed by nobility and rich patrons. A common understanding of meaning was handy in knowing what the employer expected, and the crowds understood it.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment period in 18th century Europe, this system of patronage began to change. A merchant middle class began to emerge with money to spend and time to spend it. Artists could venture away from classical genres and try new ways to attract paying patrons. \"Comedy\" could now mean Greek metered comedy, or physical camp, or some other type of experience. Artists were also free to use their mediums to express the human condition in a way that was not possible under single patronage, or at least not profitable. Art could be used to reflect and comment on the lives of ordinary people. Genre became a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictable art. Because art is often a response to a social state, in that people write/paint/sing/dance about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings. In fact, as far back as ancient Greece, new art forms were emerging that called for the evolution of genre, for example the \"tragicomedy.\"\n\nUnfortunately, genre does have its limitations. Our world has grown so much that it is difficult to absolutely classify something. Information overlaps, and a single book can encompass elements of several genres. For example, a book might be classified as fiction, mystery, science fiction and African American literature all at once.\nGenre suffers from the same ills of any classification system. Humans are pattern-seeking beings; we like to create order out of the chaos of the universe. However, when we forget that our order is imposed, often arbitrarily, over a universe of unique experiences, the merit of the individual gets lost. If a system of classification, like genre, is then used to assign value judgments, we allow our preconceptions about the whole to influence our opinion of the individual. Genre is useful as long as we remember that it is a helpful tool, to be reassessed and scrutinized, and to weigh works on their unique merit as well as their place within the genre.\n\nA simple example of the inherent meaning in an art form is that of a western movie where two men face each other on a dusty and empty road; one wears a black hat, the other white. Independent of any external meaning, there is no way to tell what the situation might mean, but due to the long development of the \"western\" genre, it is clear to the informed audience that they are watching a gunfight showdown between a bad guy and a good guy.\n\nIt has been suggested that genres resonate with people because of the familiarity, the shorthand communication, as well as the tendency of genres to shift with public mores and to reflect the zeitgeist. While the genre of storytelling has been relegated as lesser form of art because of the heavily borrowed nature of the conventions, admiration has grown. Proponents argue that the genius of an effective genre piece is in the variation, recombination, and evolution of the codes.\n\nGenre studies have perhaps gained the most recognition in film theory, where the study of genre directly contrasts with auteur theory, which privileges the director's role in crafting a movie.\n\nThere is something more about genre theory, and to that effect it is necessary to propose Kristen H. Perry's definition. Written (textual) genres are social constructions that represent specific purposes for reading and writing within different social activities, created by social groups who need them to perform certain things. They change over time, reflecting essential shifts in social function performed by that text. Genres also represent constellations of textual attributes: some attributes are necessary and other attributes are optional.\n\nAnother definition which shows the different aspects of genre theory is Miller who defines genres as \"typified rhetorical actions\" that respond to recurring situations and become instantiated in groups' behaviors. Genre evolves as \"a form of social knowledge—a mutual construing of objects, events, interests and purposes that not only links them but makes them what they are: an objectified social need\". This view sees genres not as static forms but, rather, as \"forms of ways of being ... frames for social action ... environments for learning ... locations within which meaning is constructed\" (Bazerman), suggesting that different communities use different means of communication to accomplish their objectives.\n\nTo try to show the importance of the context in genre an example is used about a particular part of the genre theory—speech genres; but it is important to stress that context is really important in all situations. Context plays an important role in shaping genres (Holquist, 1986). Genre theory does not conceptualize context as simply the space outside of text or the container surrounding texts, but as dynamic environments that simultaneously structure and are structured by the communicative practices of social agents. Speech genres are recognizable patterns of language-in-context (Bakhtin, 1986): speech genres include both oral and written forms of language.\n\nResearchers have also shown that the rhetorical moves people must make within accepted genres to communicate successfully in particular contexts operate to reinforce communities' identities and to legitimate particular communication practices. Thus, the genres that communities enact help structure their members' ways of creating, interpreting, and using knowledge (Myers; Winsor, Ordering, Writing; Bazerman, Shaping, Constructing; Berkenkotter and Huckin; Smart).\nGenres are very important in our every day life and we do not realize how much we use them, how much they affect us, how much they determine the way we act and understand the others.\n\nIn 1968, Lloyd Bitzer claimed that discourse is determined by rhetorical situations in his article titled, \"The Rhetorical Situation\". A rhetorical situation refers to the fact that every situation has the potential for a rhetorical response. He looks to understand the nature behind the context that determines discourse. Bitzer states, \"it is the situation which calls discourse into existence\". Thus, the situation controls what type of rhetorical response takes place. Each situation has an appropriate response in which the rhetor can either act upon or not act upon. He expresses the imperative nature of the situation in creating discourse, because discourse only comes into being as a response to a particular situation. Discourse varies depending upon the meaning-context that is created due to the situation, and because of this, it is \"embedded in the situation\".\n\nAccording to Bitzer, rhetorical situations come into existence, at which point, they can either mature and go away, or mature and continue to exist. Bitzer describes rhetorical situations as containing three components: exigence, audience, and constraints. He highlights six characteristics needed from a rhetorical situation that are necessary to creating discourse. A situation calls a rhetor to create discourse, it invites a response to fit the situation, the response meets the necessary requirements of the situation, the exigence which creates the discourse is located in reality, rhetorical situations exhibit simple or complex structures, rhetorical situations after coming into creation either decline or persist. Bitzer's main argument is the concept that rhetoric is used to \"effect valuable changes in real\" (Bitzer 14).\n\nIn 1984, Carolyn R. Miller examined genre in terms of rhetorical situations. She claimed that \"situations are social constructs that are the result, not of 'perception,' but of 'definition'\". In other words, we essentially define our situations. Miller seems to build from Bitzer's argument regarding what makes something rhetorical, which is the ability of change to occur. Opposite of Bitzer's predestined and limited view of the creation of genres, Miller believes genres are created through social constructs. She agreed with Bitzer that past responses can indicate what is an appropriate response to the current situation, but Miller holds that, rhetorically, genre should be \"centered not on the substance or the form of discourse but on the action it is used to accomplish\". Since her view focuses on action, it cannot ignore that humans depend on the \"context of the situation\" as well as \"motives\" that drive them to this action. Essentially, \"we create recurrence,\" or similar responses, through our \"construal\" of types. Miller defines \"types\" as \"recognition of relevant similarities\". Types come about only after we have attempted to interpret the situation by way of social context, which causes us to stick to \"tradition\". Miller does not want to deem recurrence as a constraint, but rather she views it as insight into the \"human condition\". The way to bring about a new \"type\", is to allow for past routines to evolve into new routines, thereby maintaining a cycle that is always open for change. Either way, Miller's view is in accordance with the fact that as humans, we are creatures of habit that tightly hold on to a certain \"stock of knowledge\". However, change is considered innovation, and by creating new \"types\" we can still keep \"tradition\" and innovation at the same time.\n\nThe concept of genre is not limited to classifications and lists. People interact within genres daily. Genre is determined based \"on the action it is used to accomplish\" by the individuals using that particular genre. The distance between the text or action of genre and its users does not have to be vast. People respond to exigencies provided by genre every day. Exigence is \"a set of particular social patterns and expectations that provides a socially objectified motive for addressing\" the recurring situation of a particular genre. Seeing genre as a social action provides the \"keys to understanding how to participate in the actions of a community\". Carolyn R. Miller argues that, \"a rhetorical sound definition of genre must be centered not on the substance or the form of discourse, but on the action it is used to accomplish\".\n\nThe idea that rhetorical situations define genre means that participants in genre make decisions based on commonalities and repeat those instances. Genre is not only about the form of but also the mere repetitiveness of similarities. The classroom setting exemplifies this. When students wish to speak, they raise their hands to signify that desire. Raising a hand is the correct response to speaking in turn in that particular social setting. A person at lunch with a group of friends would not raise their hand to speak because the social situation is different. Miller concludes that social actions are the response to \"understanding how to participate in the actions of a community\".\n\nCarolyn R. Miller builds on arguments made by other scholars while also contradicting Bitzer's argument by giving her readers five features to understand genre. She believes that if something is rhetorical, then there will be action. Not only will there be action, but this action will also be repeated. The repetition of action creates a regularized form of discourse. Miller would add that the result has more to do with the action accomplished by the situation. Miller recognizes that a person chooses to take a certain social action within a defined set of rules - rules set in place by that user. Lastly, a situation cannot dictate a response. Miller ends her article with the thought that genres are partly rhetorical education through her statement, \"as a recurrent, significant action, a genre embodies an aspect of cultural rationality\". Here, Miller unknowingly encapsulates a future ideology about genre: that genres are created by culture.\nAccording to Mnotho Dlamini genre is basically a deep information in a particular context.\n\nBitzer's definition of exigence as \"an imperfection marked by urgency... something waiting to be done\" ties in with Miller's idea of social action as the next step after an exigency is realized. Miller also points towards the theory that genres recur, based on Jamieson's observation that antecedent genres finding their way into new genres. More importantly, Miller takes on the bigger picture of a rhetorical situation in which all of these steps happen. \"Situations are social constructs that are the result, not of 'perception,' but of definition\". From this, it is understood that social constructs define situations and, therefore, exigence is also socially situated.\n\nGenre, also, understood in terms of social contexts provides greater meaning to each recurring situation; it essentially allows for differentiation, though past genres have a role in present and new genres. Through this differentiation, genre is allowed to continue evolving, just as social contexts continue to change with time. Bawarshi describes the way in which this happens as \"communicants and their social environments are constantly in the process of reproducing one another\" (Bawarshi 69). Rhetoric essentially works the same way, as seen in the example of writing Bawarshi provides, \"writing is not a social act simply because it takes place in some social context; it is social because it is at work in shaping the very context within which it functions\". Therefore, through social constructs, one can shape rhetorical works, and in turn, the works can shape the social context: \"we create our contexts as we create our texts\".\n\nWritten in 1975, Kathleen Hall Jamieson's \"Antecedent Genre as Rhetorical Constraint\" declares that discourse is determined by the Rhetorical Situation, as well as antecedent genres. Antecedent genres are genres of the past that are used as a basis to shape and form current rhetorical responses. When placed in an unprecedented situation, a rhetor can draw on antecedent genres of similar situations in order to guide their response. However, caution should be taken when drawing on antecedent genres because sometimes antecedent genres are capable of imposing powerful constraints. The intent of antecedent genres are to guide the rhetor toward a response consistent with situational demands, and if the situational demands are not the same as when the antecedent genre was created, the response to the situation might be inappropriate.\n\nThrough three examples of discourse, the papal encyclical, the early State of the Union Address, and congressional replies, she demonstrates how traces of antecedent genres can be found within each. These examples clarify how a rhetor will tend to draw from past experiences that are similar to the present situation in order to guide them how to act or respond when they are placed in an unprecedented situation. Jamieson explains, by use of these three examples, that choices of antecedent genre may not always be appropriate to the present situation. She discusses how antecedent genres place powerful constraints on the rhetor and may cause them to become \"bound by the manacles of the antecedent genre\". These \"manacles,\" she says, may range in level of difficultly to escape. Jamieson urges one to be careful when drawing on the past to respond to the present, because of the consequences that may follow ones choice of antecedent genre. She reiterates the intended outcome through her statement of \"choice of an appropriate antecedent genre guides the rhetor toward a response consonant with situational demands\".\n\nPeople often recognize genre based on the characteristics that the situation offers. Amy Devitt states this when she says, \"A genre is named because of its formal markers\" (Devitt 10). However she also says, \"the formal markers can be defined because a genre has been named\" (Devitt 10). When we label something as a certain genre, we also flag these same characteristics as contributing to what we already believe the genre to be. These two quotes show how reciprocity functions within genre. Devitt displays the reciprocal nature of genre and situation according to the individual by using an example of a grocery store list. A question posed by this example is, is something a grocery list because it lists groceries or is it a grocery list because one person says it is a grocery list and we thus recognize all the items on the list as groceries? Though each possible answer to this raised question contradict one another, they are both correct. Similarly, individuals recognize the characteristics of the recurring rhetorical situations in the same way as they see them as affirmation of what they already know about the preexisting genre. The rhetorical attributes of the genre act as both objects which define and are defined by genre. In other words, genre and rhetorical situations are reciprocals of one another. Devitt focused on activity system of genre and that the participants' situation, contexts and text are all mutually created \"no one aspect fully determines the other.\" (Devitt)\n\nThe phrase \"tyranny of genre\" comes from genre theorist Richard Coe, who wrote that \"the 'tyranny of genre' is normally taken to signify how generic structures constrain individual creativity\" (Coe 188). If genre functions as a taxonomic classification system, it could constrain individual creativity, since \"the presence of many of the conventional features of a genre will allow a strong genre identification; the presence of fewer features, or the presence of features of other genres, will result in a weak or ambiguous genre identification\" (Schauber 403).\n\nGenres can act as constraints on readers as well. Literary historian Hans Robert Jauss describes genres as creating a \"horizon of expectation\" under which readers will interpret texts based on how much they correspond to the features of the genre they recognize from works they have previously read. The classification-system concept results in a polarization of responses to texts that do not fit neatly into a genre or exhibit features of multiple genres: \"The status of genres as discursive institutions does create constraints that may make a text that combines or mixes genres appear to be a cultural monstrosity. Such a text may be attacked or even made a scapegoat by some as well as be defended by others\" (LaCapra 220).\n\nUnder the more modern understanding of the concept of genre as \"social action\" à la Miller, a more situational approach to genre is enabled. This situational approach frees genre from the classification system, genre's \"tyranny of genre\". Relying on the importance of the rhetorical situation in the concept of genre results in an exponential expansion of genre study, which benefits literary analysis. One literature professor writes, \"The use of the contemporary, revised genre idea [as social action] is a breath of fresh air, and it has opened important doors in language and literature pedagogy\" (Bleich 130). Instead of a codified classification as the pragmatic application of genre, the new genre idea insists that \"human agents not only have the creative capacities to reproduce past action, such as action embedded in genres, but also can respond to changes in their environment, and in turn change that environment, to produce under-determined and possibly unprecedented action, such as by modifying genres\" (Killoran 72).\n\nNever is there total stabilization in a recognized genre, nor are there instances that indicate a complete lack of homogenization. However, because of the relative similarities between the terms \"stabilization\" and \"homogenization\", the amount of stabilization or homogenization a certain genre maintains is based on opinion. Necessary discourse is, obviously, always needed and is thus considered perfectly stabilized. In rhetorical situation or antecedent genres, that which is unprecedented mostly leads to stable and predictable responses. Outside the natural setting of a given form of discourse, one may respond inappropriately due to an unrecognized alternate. The unrecognized alternate is created by the lack of homogenization or differing expectations in the presented rhetorical situation.\n\nFixity is uncontrolled by a given situation and is deliberately utilized by the affected before the rhetorical situation occurs. Fixity almost always directly effects stabilization, and has little to no bearing on homogenization. The choice of discourse will provide a certain value of fixity, depending on the specific choice. If a situation calls for more mediated responses, the fixity of the situation is more prevalent, and therefore is attributed with a stable demand of expectations. Stability nor fixity can be directly affected by the subject at hand. The only option is affecting homogenization which in turn, can positively or negatively affect stability. Directly choosing a fixed arena within genre inversely alters the homogenization of said chooser constituting as a new genre accompanied with modified genre subsets and a newly desired urgency. The same ideological theory can be applied to how one serves different purposes, creating either separate genres or modernized micro-genres. (Fairclough)\n\nActivity theory is not grounded in any one area of field of research, but instead draws from several disciplines including psychology, behaviorism, and socio-cultural studies. Although activity theory originated in the social sciences, it is currently applied most frequently to social-scientific, organizational, and writing studies. Modeled as a triangle, activity theory considers how multiple factors (subject, object, mediating artifacts, rules, and division of labor) existing in an activity system (environment) interact to achieve an outcome. Central to activity theory is the concept of mediation. Human activities are driven by a need to achieve a certain outcome or goal. Typically this activity is mediated by artifacts which include tools, language, signs, and cultural norms. In \"Textual Objects\" Cheryl Geisler explains that texts are traditionally identified as meditational means to complete a task, though she offers that texts might also be identified as the motive in discourse communities in which text is valued as the outcome as opposed to the means of an outcome. Geisler notes that texts produced for meditational means are typically more private/personalized, whereas texts identified as objects are often written with a public motive. She does not argue, however, that texts should exist exclusively as one or the other, but rather she suggests that texts can function as both.\n\nFor some genre theorists, such as Clay Spinuzzi, genres are tools-in-use, and as such can be seen as mediating objects within the world. This view of genre as a tool-in-use is exemplified in the school of genre theory that studies genres' relationships to activity systems. In his article \"Textual Grounding: How People Turn Texts into Tools,\" Jason Swarts asserts that users utilize texts as tools when they recognize the text's specific value in a rhetorical situation or environment. User's then \"ground\" texts, altering the texts structure for personal use, to make them usable under very specific conditions. The user takes the text from a \"formalized representation of information\" to a personal tool. Swarts argues that the meaning of a text is established by uptake of the users, though this varies depending on the user and the user's goal. Similarly, in \"Tracing Genres Through Organizations: A Sociocultural Approach to Information Design\", Clay Spinuzzi asserts that the use of certain tools in certain situations can help users to act purposefully in that activity. Within this tradition of genre studies, \"Genres are not discrete artifacts, but traditions of producing, using, and interpreting artifacts, traditions that make their way into the artifact as a form-shaping ideology.\" The study of genres as mediating artifacts within activity systems is closely related to Activity Theory, in which the interactions of different spheres of activity are examined. Activity theory, according to David Russell, \"traces cognition and behavior, including writing, to social interaction.\" Activity theorists examine the ways that the work done in one sphere of activity could potentially change the work done in another. For example, Russell examines how people use writing to mediate their activities, and how changes in one activity can lead to changes in another activity. Russell points out that \"the activity system of cell biology research is not confined to universities. It also extends into boundary activity systems of drug companies, government medical research facilities, and so on.\" Subtle changes in the use of writing in one activity can effect changes in the use of writing in related systems. If the government sets down new pharmaceutical documentation laws, then the teaching of how to document the distribution of pharmaceuticals will change, not just in pharmacies, but also in hospitals and nursing classrooms. Activity systems are always in flux, because subtle changes in one level of the system result in subtle changes in other levels of the system. Activity systems are still relatively stable, despite their constant flux. The changes within them are often subtle, and large scale changes usually occur over long periods of time.\n\nGenre ecology describes the dense connections between genres within the activities that they mediate. Multiple genres mediate a single activity; no genre exists in isolation. In \"The Ecology of Genre\" Anis Bawarshi argues that genres are \"rhetorical ecosystems\" in which participants actively enact and, consequently, reenact social practices, relations, and identities. Participants use genre to interpret and perform social motives which sustain rhetorical ecosystems that produce social contexts, practices, and identities. For Spinuzzi, and other genre theorists studying the social aspects of genre (like Carolyn R. Miller, Amy Devitt, and Kathleen Jamieson, among others), genre is more than a category or artifact; genre is a way of interacting with the world. In the study of genre ecologies, genre is seen as a way people can accomplish activities. Like activity systems, genre ecologies are not entirely stable, because activities change, causing the genres mediating them to change, as well. Take, for example the digitization of the workplace. Before computers, the workspace was largely mediated by genres such as the paper memo,or the company newsletter. After digitization, paper memos and paper newsletters began to disappear. Memos and newsletters did not disappear; instead, their distribution method changed. Now, memos and newsletters are disseminated electronically in emails. The genres of the memo and newsletter still exists, but they have changed, slightly, to reflect the changes in the activity system that they mediate.\n\nMikhail Bakhtin's theorization of complex, secondary speech genres as composites of simple, primary speech genres in the analysis of the interaction between the multiple competing voices and registers in literary works. Bakhtin defines complex, secondary speech genres as \"novels, dramas, all kinds of scientific research, major genres of commentary, and so forth [that] arise in more complex and comparatively highly developed and organized cultural communication\" (62). While Bakhtin focuses on the historical emergence of the novel in much of his work, in his essay \"The Problem of Speech Genres,\" he makes clear that his theory can be applied to all literary genres, including \"profoundly individual lyrical work[s]\" (61) such as the pastoral elegy. Complex, secondary speech genres are formed by \"absorb[ing] and digest[ing] various primary (simple) genres that have taken form in unmediated speech communion\" (62). Primary speech genres are \"short rejoinders of daily dialogue,\" \"everyday narration,\" \"brief standard military command\" (60), \"verbal signals in industry\" (63), \"letters, diaries, minutes, and so forth\" (98), notable for their referentiality to and function within the pragmatic communicative contexts of \"extraverbal reality (situation)\" (83). When primary speech genres are absorbed by secondary ones, they are \"altered and assume a special character,\" losing \"their immediate relation to actual reality and to the real utterances of others\" (62). This process of absorption and digestion of primary speech genres by secondary ones leads to a \"more or less distinct dialogization of secondary genres, the weakening of their monological composition\" (66). While Bakhtinian dialogization may weaken the monological composition of secondary speech genres, it does not preclude a dominant theme, ideology, or cultural meaning from arising out of interplay of the \"various transformed primary genres\" (98) that make up a secondary work (although, Bakhtin admits, this dominant ideology is difficult to isolate in complex works, and is, to a certain extent, left open to the interpretation of individual readers). Bakhtin explains that primary genres undergo a more or less thorough process of contestation and resolution within the secondary work they constitute and \"enter into actual reality only via the [work] as a whole, that is, as a literary-artistic event and not as everyday life\" (62). \"As a rule, these secondary genres of complex cultural communication play out various forms of primary speech communication\" (Bakhtin 98). Even as a work permits and enacts dialogization between characters, conventional forms, and semantic content, it resolves or \"finalizes\" that content into a \"wholeness\" of utterance, which is intelligible to readers, and therefore \"guarantee[s] the possibility of response (or of responsive understanding)\" (76). Through the finalization of disparate conventional and thematic strands, a work achieves the fullness of what Bakhtin calls its \"specific authorial intent,\" Milton's \"speech plan\" or \"speech will\" for his work, and readies itself for responsive understanding (reception, interpretation) on the part of readers (77). Despite its internal dialogization, the work delivers itself to readers as a semantically exhaustive whole, and in this way uses its internal drama to respond ideologically to its genre: \"other works connected with it in the overall processes of speech communication in [its] particular cultural sphere\" (75). These include \"works of predecessors on whom the author relies,\" \"other works of the same school,\" and \"works of opposing schools with which the author is contending\" (75). In this way the work forms a crucial \"link the chain of speech communion\" of its genre (76).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3835157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3835157", "title": "Having It Off", "text": "Having It Off\n\nHaving it Off is a one-off TV comedy series for BBC Choice made by Red Production Company in 2002.\n\nIt was set at a cheap hairdressing salon in Eccles, Greater Manchester. It was shown only once and is not available yet on DVD.\n\nOut gay bitchy stereotype Guy La Trousse (played by Antony Cotton, \"Coronation Street\", \"Queer As Folk\"), desperately tries to escape the drudge of daily wash and crop and change the fortunes of the salon - and his career.\n\nThis is all thwarted by April, nymphomanic loud-mouthed wife of the hairdressers owner.\n\nThe BBC website describes it as \"rude, crude, strongly working-class sitcom on the lesser-seen BBC Choice, \"Having It Off\" promised much yet fell curiously short of the mark, lacking the key that would have propelled it to a higher level\". However, tapes have been known to change hands on eBay for high prices.\n\n"}
{"id": "12733485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12733485", "title": "Inpainting", "text": "Inpainting\n\nInpainting is the process of reconstructing lost or deteriorated parts of images and videos. In the museum world, in the case of a valuable painting, this task would be carried out by a skilled art conservator or art restorer. In the digital world, inpainting (also known as \"image interpolation\" or \"video interpolation\") refers to the application of sophisticated algorithms to replace lost or corrupted parts of the image data (mainly small regions or to remove small defects).\n\nThere are many objectives and applications of this technique.\n\nIn photography and cinema, is used for film restoration; to reverse the deterioration (e.g., cracks in photographs or scratches and dust spots in film; see infrared cleaning). It is also used for removing red-eye, the stamped date from photographs and removing objects to creative effect.\n\nThis technique can be used to replace the lost blocks in the coding and transmission of images, for example, in a streaming video. It can also be used to remove logos in videos.\n\nDeep learning neural network based inpainting can be used for decensoring images.\n\nInpainting is rooted in the restoration of images. Traditionally, inpainting has been done by professional restorers. The underlying methodology of their work is as follows:\n\nSince the wide applications of digital camera and the digitalization of old photos, inpainting has become an automatic process that is performed on digital images. More than scratch removing, the inpainting techniques are also applied to object removal, text removal and other automatic modifications of images and videos. Furthermore, they can also be observed in applications like image compression and super resolution.\n\nThree main groups of 2D image inpainting algorithms can be found in literature. The first one to be noted is structural inpainting, the second one is texture inpainting and the last one is a combination of these two techniques. All these inpainting methods have one thing in common - they use the information of the known or undestroyed image areas in order to fill the gap.\n\nStructural inpainting uses geometric approaches for filling in the missing information in the region which should be inpainted. These algorithms focus on the consistency of the geometric structure.\n\nLike everything else the structural inpainting methods have both advantages and disadvantages. The main problem is that all the structural inpainting methods are not able to restore texture. Texture has a repetitive pattern which means that a missing portion cannot be restored by continuing the level lines into the gap.\n\nCombined structural and textural inpainting approaches simultaneously try to perform texture and structure filling in regions of missing image information.\nMost parts of an image consist of texture and structure. The boundaries between image regions accumulate structural information which is a complex phenomenon. This is the result when blending different textures together. That is why, the state of the art inpainting method attempts to combine structural and textural inpainting.\n\nA more traditional method is to use differential equations (such as the Laplace's equation) with Dirichlet boundary conditions for continuity (a seamless fit). This works well if missing information lies within the homogeneous portion of an object area.\n\nOther methods follow isophote directions (in an image, a contour of equal luminance), to do the inpainting.\n\nModel based inpainting follows the Bayesian approach for which missing information is best fitted or estimated from the combination of the models of the underlying images as well as the image data actually being observed. In deterministic language, this has led to various variational inpainting models.\n\nManual computer methods include using a clone tool or healing tool, to copy existing parts of the image to restore a damaged texture. Texture synthesis may also be used.\n\nExemplar-based image inpainting attempts to automate the clone tool process. It fills \"holes\" in the image by searching for similar patches in a nearby source region of the image, and copying the pixels from the most similar patch into the hole. By performing the fill at the patch level as opposed to the pixel level, the algorithm reduces blurring artifacts caused by prior techniques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4623243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4623243", "title": "Institut Français de Recherche en Iran", "text": "Institut Français de Recherche en Iran\n\nThe Institut Français de Recherche en Iran () is an archeological and historical institute located in Tehran, which is part of the cultural wing of the French embassy. It studies ancient Persian antiquities.\n\nThe French received exclusive rights to excavate in Iran for archaeological purposes in mid 19th century. However, after the rise of Reza Shah Pahlavi and the formation of the national museum in Tehran, the domain of the excavations of the French was limited to the ruins of Susa. At this capacity, the French expedition continued working until after the Islamic revolution and the Iran-Iraq war.\n\nAfter the war, the French handed their headquarters at the Susa castle to the Iranian government and finished their archaeological field work. The remnants of the last expedition were reformed into the Institut Français de Recherche en Iran, which was headed by Rémy Boucharlat. Boucharlat has since left Iran, but the Institute still exists in some capacity.\n"}
{"id": "28081158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28081158", "title": "Italian Association for Political Philosophy", "text": "Italian Association for Political Philosophy\n\nThe Società Italiana di Filosofia Politica (English: Italian Association for Political Philosophy) is an association of academic and non-academic practitioners of political philosophy in Italy. The association's aim is to further the study of political philosophy in its various orientations and to promote dialogue among Italian and other intellectual communities of scholars interested in the current debate in political philosophy.\n\nThe Association was founded in 2001 by a number of philosophers, including Giuliano Marini, Giulio M. Chiodi, Sebastiano Maffettone, Giacomo Marramao, Giovanni Fiaschi, Raimondo Cubeddu, Salvatore Veca, Michelangelo Bovero, Alessandro Ferrara, Roberto Gatti—some of whom had significant contact with the Italian political philosopher Norberto Bobbio.\n\nThe first President of the Association (after a temporary provisional steering committee led by Giuliano Marini) was Sebastiano Maffettone (2002–04). Roberto Gatti served as President from 2004 to 2005. From 2005 to 2010, for two terms, the President was Alessandro Ferrara, and from 2010 to 2013 Laura Bazzicalupo. The current President of the Association is Stefano Petrucciani.\n\n"}
{"id": "22302452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22302452", "title": "Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen Corpus", "text": "Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen Corpus\n\nThe Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen Corpus (often abbreviated as LOB Corpus) is a million-word collection of British English texts which was compiled in the 1970s in collaboration between the University of Lancaster, the University of Oslo, and the Norwegian Computing Centre for the Humanities, Bergen, to provide a British counterpart to the Brown Corpus compiled by Henry Kučera and W. Nelson Francis for American English in the 1960s.\n\nIts composition was designed to match the original Brown corpus in terms of its size and genres as closely as possible using documents published in the UK by British authors. Both corpora consist of 500 samples each comprising about 2000 words in the following genres:\nThe corpus has been also tagged, i.e. part-of-speech categories have been assigned to every word.\n\n"}
{"id": "50701110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50701110", "title": "Language documentation tools and methods", "text": "Language documentation tools and methods\n\nThe field of language documentation in the modern context involves a complex and ever-evolving set of tools and methods, and the study and development of their use - and, especially, identification and promotion of best practices - can be considered a sub-field of language documentation proper. Among these are ethical and recording principles, workflows and methods, hardware tools, and software tools.\n\nResearchers in language documentation often conduct linguistic fieldwork to gather the data on which their work is based, recording audiovisual files that document language use in traditional contexts. Because the environments in which linguistic fieldwork often takes place may be logistically challenging, not every type of recording tool is necessary or ideal, and compromises must often be struck between quality, cost and usability. It is also important to envision one's complete workflow and intended outcomes; for example, if video files are made, some amount of processing may be required to expose the audio component to processing in various ways by different software packages.\n\nEthical practices in language documentation have been the focus of much recent discussion and debate. The Linguistic Society of America has prepared an Ethics Statement, and maintains an Ethics Discussion Blog which is primarily focused on ethics in the language documentation context. The morality of ethics protocols has itself been brought into question by George van Driem. Most postgraduate programs that involve some form of language documentation and description require researchers to submit their proposed protocols to an internal Institutional Review Board which ensures that research is being conducted ethically. Minimally, participants should be informed of the process and the intended use of the recordings, and give recorded audible or written permission for the audiovisual materials to be used for linguistic investigation by the researcher(s). Many participants will want to be named as consultants, but others will not - this will determine whether the data needs to be anonymized or restricted from public access.\n\nAdhering to standards for formats is critical for interoperability between software tools. Many individual archives or data repositories have their own standards and requirements for data deposited on their servers - knowledge of these requirements ought to inform the data collection strategy and tools used, and should be part of a data management plan developed before the start of research. Some example guidelines from well-used repositories are given below:\n\n\nMost current archive standards for video use MPEG-4 (H264) as an encoding or storage format, which includes an AAC audio stream (generally of up to 320 kbps). Audio archive quality is at least WAV 44.1 khz, 16-bit.\n\nSince documentation of languages is often difficult, with many languages that linguists work with being endangered (they may not be spoken in the near future), it is recommended to record at the highest quality possible given the limitations of a recorder. For video, this means recording at HD resolution (1080p or 720p) or higher when possible, while for audio this means recording minimally in uncompressed WAV, 44.1khz, 16-bit resolution. Arguably, however, good recording techniques (isolation, microphone selection and usage, using a tripod to minimize blur) is more important than resolution. A microphone that gives a clear recording of a speaker telling a folktale (high signal/noise ratio) in MP3 format (perhaps via a phone) is better than an extremely noisy recording in WAV format where all that can be heard are cars going by. To ensure that good recordings can be obtained, linguists should practice with their recording devices as much as possible and compare the results to observe which techniques yield the best results.\n\nFor many linguists the end-result of making recordings is language analysis, often investigation of a language's phonological or syntactic properties using various software tools. This requires transcription of the audio, generally in collaboration with native speakers of the language in question. For general transcription, media files can be played back on a computer (or other device capable of playback) and paused for transcription in a text editor. Other (cross-platform) tools to assist this process include Audacity and , while a program like ELAN (described further below) can also perform this function.\n\nPrograms like Toolbox or FLEx are often preferred by linguists who want to be able to interlinearize their texts, as these programs build a dictionary of forms and parsing rules to help speed up analysis. Unfortunately, media files are generally not linked by these programs (as opposed to ELAN, in which linked files are preferred), making it difficult to view or listen back to recordings to check transcriptions. There is currently a workaround for Toolbox that allows timecodes to reference an audio file and enable playback (of a complete text or a referenced sentence) from within Toolbox - in this workflow, time-alignment of text is performed in Transcriber, and then the relevant timecodes and text are converted into a format that Toolbox can read.\n\nRecorders that record video typically also record audio as well. However, the audio does not always meet the criteria of minimal needs and recommended best practices for language documentation (uncompressed WAV format, 44.1khz, 16-bit), and is often not useful for linguistic purposes such as phonetic analysis. Many video devices record instead to a compressed audio format such as AAC or MP3, which is combined with the video stream in a wrapper of various kinds. Exceptions to this general rule are the following Video+Audio recorders:\n\nThe Zoom series, particularly the Q8, Q4n, and Q2n, which record to multiple video and audio resolutions/formats, most notably WAV (44.1/48/96khz, 16/24-bit).\n\nWhen using a video recorder that does not record audio in WAV format (such as most DSLR cameras), it is recommended to record audio separately on another recorder, following some of the guidelines below. As with the audio recorders described below, many video recorders also accept microphone input of various kinds (generally through an 1/8-inch or TRS connector) - this can ensure a high-quality backup audio recording that is in sync with the recorded video, which can be helpful in some cases (i.e. for transcription).\n\nAudio-only recorders can be used in scenarios where video is impractical or otherwise undesirable. In most cases it is advantageous to combine the use of an audio-only recorder with one or more external microphones, however many modern audio recorders include built-in microphones which are usable if cost or setup speed are important concerns. Digital (solid state) recorders are preferred for most language documentation scenarios. Modern digital recorders achieve a very high level of quality at a relatively low price. Some of the most popular field recorders are found in the Zoom range, including the H1, H2, H4, H5 and H6. The H1 is particularly suitable for situations in which cost and user-friendliness are major desiderata. Other popular recorders for situations where size is a factor are the Olympus LS-series and the Sony Digital Voice recorders (though in the latter case, ensure that the device can record to WAV/Linear PCM format).\n\nSeveral types of microphone can be effectively used in language documentation scenarios, depending on the situation (especially, including factors such as number, position and mobility of speakers) and on budget. In general, condenser microphones should be selected rather than dynamic microphones. It is an advantage in most fieldwork situations if a condenser microphone is self-powered (via a battery); however, when power is not a major factor, phantom-powered models can also be used. A stereo microphone setup is needed whenever more than one speaker is involved in a recording; this can be achieved via an array of two mono microphones, or by a dedicated stereo microphone.\n\nDirectional microphones should be used in most cases, in order to isolate a speaker's voice from other potential noise sources. However, omnidirectional microphones may be preferred in situations involving larger numbers of speakers arrayed in a relatively large space. Among directional microphones, cardioid microphones are suitable for most applications, however in some cases a hypercardioid (\"shotgun\") microphone may be preferred.\n\nGood quality headset microphones are comparatively expensive, but can produce recordings of extremely high quality in controlled situations. Lavalier or \"lapel\" microphones may be used in some situations, however, depending on the microphone they can produce recordings which are inferior to a headset microphone for phonetic analysis, and are subject to some of the same concerns that headset microphones are in terms of restriction of a recording to a single speaker - while other speakers may be audible on the recording, they will be backgrounded in relation to the speaker wearing the lavalier microphone.\n\nSome good quality microphones used for film-making and interviews include the Røde VideoMic shotgun and the Røde lavalier series, Shure headworn mics and Shure lavaliers. Depending on the recorder and microphone, additional cables (XLR, stereo/mono converter or a TRRS to TRS adapter) will be necessary.\n\nThere is as yet no single software suite which is designed to or able to handle all aspects of a typical language documentation workflow. Instead, there is a large and increasing number of packages designed to handle various aspects of the workflow, many of which overlap considerably. Some of these packages use standard formats and are inter-operable, whereas others are much less so.\n\nSayMore is a language documentation package developed by SIL International in Dallas which primarily focuses on the initial stages in language documentation, and aims for a relatively uncomplicated user experience.\n\nThe primary functions of SayMore are: (a) audio recording (b) file import from recording device (video and/or audio) (c) file organization (d) metadata entry at session and file levels (e) association of AV files with evidence of informed consent and other supplementary objects (such as photographs) (f) AV file segmentation (g) transcription/translation (h) BOLD-style Careful Speech annotation and Oral Translation.\n\nSayMore files can be further exported for annotation in FLEx, and metadata can be exported in .csv and IMDI formats for archiving.\n\nELAN is developed by The Language Archive at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen. ELAN is a full-featured transcription tool, particularly useful for researchers with complex annotation needs/goals.\n\nFieldWorks Language Explorer, FLEx is developed by SIL International formerly Summer Institute of Linguistics, Inc. at SIL International in Dallas. FLEx allows the user to build a \"lexicon\" of the language, i.e. a word-list with definitions and grammatical information, and also to store texts from the language. Within the texts, each word or part of a word (i.e. a \"morpheme\") is linked to an entry in the lexicon. For new projects and for students learning for the first time, FLEx is now the best tool for interlinearising and dictionary-making.\n\nField Linguist's Toolbox (usually called Toolbox) is a precursor of FLEx and has been one of the most widely used language documentation packages for some decades. Previously known as Shoebox, Toolbox's primary functions are construction of a lexical database, and interlinearization of texts through interaction with the lexical database. Both lexical database and texts can be exported to a word processing environment, in the case of the lexical database using the Multi-Dictionary Formatter (MDF) conversion tool. It is also possible to use Toolbox as a transcription environment. By comparison with ELAN and FLEx, Toolbox has relatively limited functionality, and is felt by some to have an unintuitive design and interface. However, a large number of projects have been carried-out in the Shoebox/Toolbox environment over its lifespan, and its user base continues to enjoy its advantages of familiarity, speed, and community support. Toolbox also has the advantage of working directly with human-readable Text files that can be opened in any text editor and easily manipulated and archived. Toolbox files can also be easily converted for storage in XML (recommended for archives), such as with open source Python libraries like Xigt intended for computational uses of IGT data.\n\nLanguage documentation may be partially automated thanks to a number of software tools, including:\n\nThe peer-reviewed journal Language Documentation and Conservation has published a large number of articles focusing on tools and methods in language documentation.\n\nLRE Map Language resources map\nSearchable by Resource Type, Language(s), Language type, Modality, Resource Use, Availability, Production Status, Conference(s), Resource name\n\nRichard Littauer's GitHub catalog\nA catalog of \"open-source code that would be useful for documenting, conserving, developing, preserving, or working with endangered languages\".\n\nRNLD software page\nResearch Network for Linguistic Diversity's page on linguistic software.\n"}
{"id": "56357381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56357381", "title": "List of Italian Grammy Award winners and nominees", "text": "List of Italian Grammy Award winners and nominees\n\nThe following is a list of Grammy Awards winners and nominees from Italy:\n"}
{"id": "36594280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36594280", "title": "List of works by Margaret Mahy", "text": "List of works by Margaret Mahy\n\nMargaret Mahy of New Zealand wrote more than 100 picture books, 40 novels and 20 short story collections, among other works.\n\nVariant titles are given in parentheses, prefaced by \"U.S.\" for titles of US editions, otherwise by \"also\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2945096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2945096", "title": "Loose Change", "text": "Loose Change\n\nLoose Change is a series of films released between 2005 and 2009 that argue in favor of certain conspiracy theories relating to the September 11 attacks. The films were written and directed by Dylan Avery and produced by Korey Rowe, Jason Bermas, and Matthew Brown.\n\nThe original 2005 film was edited and re-released as \"Loose Change: 2nd Edition\" (2006), a third time for the \"2nd Edition Recut\" (2006), and then subsequently edited for a fourth time for the \"HD Remastered Edition\" (2017). \"Loose Change: Final Cut\", deemed \"the third and final release of this documentary series\" was released on DVD and Web-streaming format on November 11, 2007.\n\nAnother version of the film, \"Loose Change 9/11: An American Coup\", released on September 22, 2009, is narrated by Daniel Sunjata and distributed by Microcinema International.\n\nCoverage of the film increased in 2006 with the recut release having airings on U.S. and European television stations and over 4 million views online in four months, leading \"Vanity Fair\" to say it could be the first Internet blockbuster. \"Loose Change\" asserts that the usual account of the Pentagon attack, World Trade Center collapse and United 93 phone calls and crash is implausible and instead suggests the 9/11 attacks were a false flag operation. The film's main claims have been debunked by journalists, independent researchers, and prominent members of the scientific and engineering community.\n\nIn May 2003, when researching for a fictional screenplay based on the 9/11 attacks, writer Dylan Avery felt there was enough evidence to support the 9/11 conspiracy theories that the attacks were orchestrated by members of the United States government, and started working on a non-fiction version.\n\nIn April 2005, the first edition of \"Loose Change\" was made available for free on the Internet and was given a limited DVD release with 50,000 sold and 100,000 given away. It cost around $2,000 to make and was made primarily on Avery's laptop computer, featuring a distinctive soundtrack produced by DJ Skooly. Avery's childhood friend, Korey Rowe, left the service of the United States Army in June 2005 to assist with the marketing of the movie. Soon after Avery decided that, \"There was new information that needed to be added and improvements made,\" and so began creating \"Loose Change: 2nd Edition\". Rowe assumed the role of producer, and Jason Bermas, a graphic designer, worked as production assistant. This edition cost around $6,000. It was originally released in December 2005, but was re-released in June 2006 as \"Loose Change: 2nd Edition Recut\". Before the release of this edition, Avery, Rowe and Bermas set up an independent movie production company called Louder than Words, an organization that identifies with the 9/11 Truth Movement. In April 2009 the rights to Loose Change were bought by Microcinema International DVD.\n\nIn August 2006, Rowe was featured in an article admitting to the inaccuracy found in \"Loose Change\", such as inaccurately stating a B-52 flew into the Empire State Building (it was actually a B-25 in the 1940s). \"We don't ever come out and say that everything we say is 100 percent. We know there are errors in the documentary, and we've actually left them in there so that people discredit us and do the research for themselves.\" In 2007, media entrepreneur Mark Cuban was going to distribute \"Loose Change\", and Charlie Sheen was going to narrate. However, this did not happen; Fox News political talk show host Bill O'Reilly interviewed Cuban on his radio show and said Sheen's career would be over if he narrated it.\n\nThe third edition of the movie, \"Loose Change Final Cut\", was released in November 2007. According to the Loose Change website, this edition \"is substantially different from \"Loose Change\" and \"Loose Change 2nd Edition Recut\" in the way it presents the information surrounding 9/11/2001. However, it remains true to the spirit that has made \"Loose Change\" what it is today.\" Professor David Ray Griffin was brought on as script consultant, and radio host Alex Jones and Tim Sparke of Mercury Media served as executive producers. Due to an estimated cost of $200,000, this version is the first that is not available for free online, although it is in fact available for free on Google Video and YouTube in a lower quality version. This edition is over two hours in length, substantially longer than previous versions.\n\nDirector Avery and producers Rowe and Matthew Brown released a new film through their production company, Collective Minds Media Company, entitled \"Loose Change 9/11: An American Coup\" on September 22, 2009. The film is distributed by Microcinema International. It is narrated by Daniel Sunjata, and explores historical events leading to 9/11 and its aftermath. It was financed by Joel Bachar and Patrick Kwiatkowski of Microcinema International, and its world premiere was on September 9, 2009 at the 9/11 Film Festival at the Grand Lake Theater in Oakland, California.\n\n\"Loose Change 2nd Edition Recut\" (2006) opens with a brief description of past suspicious and questionable motives in the history of American government. This discussion mentions Operation Northwoods, a plan put forward during the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 to launch false flag terrorist attacks against the United States and blame them on Cuba as a pretext to invade that country. Focus is particularly directed at the previously proposed plans to substitute real commercial airliners with pilotless drone aircraft in order to investigate the plausibility of covertly using them as weapons whilst maintaining the cover of an accident.\n\nAttention is also given to the \"Project for the New American Century\", a neo-conservative think-tank that released a report in 2000 titled \"Rebuilding America's Defenses\". In particular the film points out a line from that report that states:\n\nIt also highlights the fact that during the same year the report was released, the Pentagon conducted the first of two training exercises that simulated a Boeing 757 crashing into the building. It also says that from September 6 to September 10, an unusual amount of put options were placed on the stock of American Airlines, Boeing and United Airlines. The opening montage intertwines clips of the collapse of the twin towers and building 7 with a Hunter S. Thompson interview, who talks about the motive, the public version of 9/11, and answered a question saying \"Absolutely,\" that this worked in the favor of the Bush administration.\n\nThis is followed by an examination of the attacks on the Pentagon. The film opposes the official story of Flight 77 hitting the Pentagon, alleging that the path of destruction does not match what a 757 would leave. In particular it claims that the size of the hole in the Pentagon, a lack of debris and, little landscape damage seem inconsistent with prior airliner crashes. It also alleges that too few parts were recovered from the crash site to reliably ascertain that they were of a Boeing 757, and that a flywheel observed at the site seemed too small to have been part of the aircraft's engine turbine. Experts officially declared that the wheel was part of the APU, but others say it didn't come from the APU of a 757 but likely from an E-3 Sentry aircraft. The film also claims that the alleged hijacker-pilot Hani Hanjour had difficulty operating basic controls on a small Cessna that he rented at a flight school, and that perhaps not even an experienced pilot could have maneuvered the reflex angle of turn at the airspeed and altitude at which the aircraft approached without going into a high speed stall. The film mentions three cameras on nearby buildings that allegedly caught the entire incident at the Pentagon on film, which it says the government confiscated and has refused to release in full.\n\nThe next section focuses on the destruction of the World Trade Center. The film favors the controlled demolition theory of the destruction of World Trade Centers 1, 2 and 7. It cites as evidence eyewitness reports from a janitor, firemen, and other people near the buildings who heard bangs, many of them describing them as explosions as well as videotapes that show windows far below the burning floors blow out during the collapse, and seismograph results recorded during the collapse compared to the collapse of other similar buildings. The film claims that WTC 1, 2 and 7 were the first steel frame buildings in history to collapse due to fire. Another allegation centers on an audio recording that the film claims contains two distinct explosions at the time of the impact. The film also posits that the official story of the collapse ignores the laws of physics.\n\nIn particular, the video alleges that the fires inside the twin towers were not hot enough to bring the buildings down. An audio tape is presented in which the Captain of Ladder 7 claims that the fires can be brought under control by two lines and it is mentioned that building 7 had taken only minor damage before its own collapse. These allegations follow a listing of buildings that burned longer than the Twin Towers and did not fall.\n\nFor Flight 93, the video ignores the mainstream theory of passengers crashing the plane to instead allege that it landed safely at Cleveland Hopkins Airport where it was evacuated by government personnel into an unused NASA research center. As evidence, the film contains photographs and eyewitness reports of the crash site, media reports of a corresponding and bizarre evacuation at Cleveland Hopkins Airport, oddities in the transcripts of cell-phone calls supposedly placed from the plane during the hijacking, and the sighting of the tail number of Flight 93 on an aircraft in use at a later date.\n\nThe film follows this with a miscellaneous listing of allegations. It claims that cell phone calls could not be made from American Airlines flights at the time of the crash—asking why American Airlines had to install a system in their own airplanes to allow the reception of cellular signals within the planes if they could do this regardless on September 11. It suggests that calls from passengers and crew were faked using sophisticated voice-morphing technology developed by the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico—and that the December 13, 2001 video of Osama Bin Laden claiming responsibility for the attacks was also faked, featuring what appeared to be an overweight lookalike version of Bin Laden. Finally it alleges that of the list of hijackers the government initially released, many were not in the planes and therefore survived September 11, 2001 and may even still be alive.\n\nIn the end, the film gives financial motives for people it says would have benefited from launching the attacks. It first mentions Larry Silverstein, who stood to receive a substantial insurance payout after the attacks due to a specific anti-terrorism clause. It makes other allegations of insider trading and Halliburton's benefiting from the subsequent launch of America's \"War on Terror\".\n\nAlthough each version of the film asserts that the events of 9/11 were essentially an \"inside job\", there were significant revisions between the particular theories that different editions posited. For example:\n\nThe first edition, \"Loose Change\", suggested that there was an unusual device (which the filmmakers refer to as a \"pod\") under the fuselage of the plane that struck the South Tower of the World Trade Center. The \"pod\" was presented as evidence that the planes involved in the attack were replaced with remote-controlled drones. Another film \"\" delves into the topic of the commercial airlines being military airlines with \"pods\". Official flight records were also presented as evidence that the aircraft involved are still in active service, though it is stated that the producers do not know what happened to the passengers of the flights. This information is omitted from all subsequent versions.\n\n\"Loose Change: 2nd Edition Recut\" is one hour and 29 minutes in length. The film consists of Dylan Avery narrating over photographs and news footage relating to 9/11, with an underscore of hip hop and other urban style music. Avery does not appear in the video itself, though he is shown in the bonus features. Video and still footage used includes considerable video content from CNN, MSNBC NBC, and Fox News, as well as a number of other sources.\n\n\nOn May 26, 2006, a letter was sent to Avery alleging copyright and trademark infringement in \"Loose Change 2nd Edition\" resulting from the use of footage from French filmmakers the Naudet brothers. The letter states that Avery used copyrighted images from the film \"9/11\" and that those images violate the Lanham Act \"by suggesting that the Naudet brothers or Mr. Hanlon have endorsed or sponsored the controversial views in your film.\" The letter concludes: \"Accordingly, we hereby demand that you confirm to us within three (3) business days of the receipt of this letter that you have removed all footage taken from our clients' 9/11 film from your \"Loose Change\" film, including from the version of your film that can be downloaded on the Internet, the DVD version of your film and anywhere else you have used or are using our clients' footage.\" Avery announced that the recut version of the 2nd edition would omit some of the infringing material.\n\nThe end of the film shows a clip from The American Scholar's Symposium that was aired on C-SPAN on June 25, 2006 at the Sheraton Hotel in Los Angeles. Jason Bermas, wearing the signature \"Investigate 9/11\" T-shirt that he designed, is describing their plans to peacefully demonstrate at Ground Zero on September 11, 2006. The credits music was \"Remo Conscious\"' \"We Know\".\n\nWith new distributors, \"Loose Change: Final Cut\" was an attempt to remove all the speculative points from previous versions and weave the reported facts into this version. For instance, references that Flight 93 diverted to Cleveland Hopkins Airport, calls from the plane using voice-morphing technology, and the stance that a missile hit the Pentagon were removed from this version.\n\nAvery asserted that this was the film he wanted to make due to the new information he found out later and due to the funding and distribution he was offered; in addition, with many firefighters, survivors and witnesses going to him about events of that day, he felt it was necessary to update the film. David Ray Griffin was a script consultant and radio host Alex Jones was associated with the production of this film as well. This was over two hours long, had a new musical score, and included additional interviews and new information that was not available in the prior versions.\n\nThe film was split up into the following acts and chapters:\n\n\"Loose Change 9/11: An American Coup\" was the 2009 edition that was written, directed, and edited by Dylan Avery. Unlike the previous editions, this was narrated by actor Daniel Sunjata (who shares the same beliefs of this film). Original music was composed by Mic Cartier and the music/score used in previous versions were not used. This version started with a history of false flag operations. The graphics, interviews, and footage were changed and updated. There were interviews with Stephen Jones about the alleged nano-thermite residue found at the bottom of World Trade Centers 1, 2, and 7.\n\nIn addition, near the end of the film, there was an exclusive interview with Barry Jennings, an eyewitness who had been trapped in building 7, who claimed to have heard explosions and \"stepped over bodies\", and questioned why and how World Trade Center 7 was brought down. The film also notes the coincidence of Jennings' death occurring two days prior to the National Institute of Standards and Technology building 7 report release date, as well as the fact that Jennings' testimony contradicts the \"official explanation\" that there were no deaths or witnesses of explosions in building 7. It goes on to state that a private investigator was hired to investigate his death, which was prompted with a reply stating that the case was referred to the police, that a full refund is given, and to not email about that individual again.\n\nThe final segment of the film talked about former major general of the United States Marine Corps Smedley Butler and the Business Plot, which claims that wealthy businessmen backed by mainstream media and corporations approached him to overthrow then United States president Franklin D. Roosevelt and install a fascist regime.\n\nThe credits music was \"Remo Conscious\"'s \"Welcome To The Aftermath\", which prominently features the verse \"9/11 was an inside job\".\n\nOn December 15, 2015, Journeyman Pictures re-released \"Loose Change\" as a condensed, high-definition version of \"Loose Change 9/11: An American Coup\". According to the producers Dylan Avery and Korey Rowe, this edition included the new released video by NIST, a new ending and a much shorter duration made for a digital platform.\n\nOn September 7, 2017, \"Loose Change 2nd Edition\" was released on YouTube via Loose Change's official YouTube channel. The movie was remastered into high-definition, graphics were updated, and new text was added to most of the movie. The audio from the original 2005 movie remained, however.\n\nThe credits music to this updated version of \"Loose Change\" was \"Remo Conscious\"'s \"Lies\".\n\nIn North America it aired on Fox TV affiliates, but received further screenings internationally. On September 10, 2006 BNN (Bart News Network) Nederland 3 and Portuguese public TV Station RTP aired Loose Change in prime time hours. RTP aired it again on for September 17, 2006. FreeLooseChange is an initiative in Berlin, Germany. One-hundred shops, galleries, theatres and a daily newspaper office so far distributed 50,000 free DVDs featuring the documentaries \"Loose Change\" and \"Terrorstorm\" by Alex Jones in German language versions.\n\nAn August 2006 \"Vanity Fair\" article suggested that \"Loose Change\" \"just might be the first Internet blockbuster.\" Millions more have viewed the film via unaffiliated websites. More than one million copies of the DVD have been sold, and many more have been given away.\n\nThe film has been broadcast on state media outlets in Belgium, Ireland and Portugal. According to \"Broadcast magazine\", the video was to have a special screening at the UK Houses of Parliament on June 14, 2006. Michael Meacher, the British MP who had considered sponsoring the screening, decided against it. On September 11, 2006, Dylan Avery and Jason Bermas appeared on \"Democracy Now! the War and Peace Report\", to debate with James Meigs and David Dunbar, two of the editors of \"Popular Mechanics\" and the book \"Debunking 9/11 Myths\".\n\n\nJournalists, researchers, as well as scientists and engineers, and members of the 9/11 Truth movement have spoken out against the film's claims about the September 11 attacks.\n\n\"Loose Change\" has been subject to criticism from a variety of sources. In March 2007, the United States Department of State published an article called \"Loose Change Debunked\" that says the movie makes \"sloppy mistakes\". The article is highly critical of the evidence cited to support the claim that Flight 77 did not hit the Pentagon, and it criticizes the controlled demolition hypothesis of the World Trade Center claiming that, \"Demolition professionals say controlled demolition of the Towers that day would have been impossible.\" The article goes on to say:\n\nIt also notes that \"Loose Change\" has also been criticized by other members of the 9/11 Truth Movement, referring specifically to the critique \"Sifting Through Loose Change\". Michael Green, a member of the 9/11 Truth Movement, has analyzed the film and is critical of many of its claims and methods. Several independent researchers have also written critiques of the film.\n\nIn May 2006, the blog \"Screw Loose Change\" was created to criticize the claims in the film. Another analysis of the film has been created by the \"Internet Detectives\". Many of the critiques argue that \"Loose Change\" quote mines, uses unreliable or out-of-date sources, and cherry-picks evidence to claim that there are serious problems with official accounts of the events of September 11.\n\nOne of the many aspects these critiques focus on is \"Loose Change's\" analysis of the collapse of the World Trade Center. The comparison to other notable high-rise fires that did not lead to collapse ignores differences in building design, significant WTC structural damage, and compromised fireproofing, as most steel loses over half its strength at . The comparison with Madrid's Windsor Tower fails to note its steel-supported perimeter floors that collapsed during the fire. Kevin Ryan, described by \"Loose Change\" as working for Underwriters Laboratories (UL), was actually employed in a water-testing subsidiary. Furthermore, UL does not certify structural steel, and ASTM E119 certification is not meant to predict performance in real uncontrolled fires. The NIST found no evidence of any firm having conducted tests on WTC materials in the past. Another expert quoted, Van Romero, has clarified that he was misquoted by the \"Albuquerque Journal\"; he had actually said that it \"looked like\" explosives took down the WTC. When the misquote was printed, he felt his \"scientific reputation was on the line.\"\n\nOn September 11, 2006, the public-TV network program \"Democracy Now!\" broadcast a discussion between two \"Loose Change\" creators and two editors from \"Popular Mechanics\", where they debated at considerable length various aspects of the documentary. Jason Bermas claimed United Flight 93 did not crash into the field, and classified \"Popular Mechanics\" as a publication in the spirit of Hearst's \"yellow journalism\".\n\nGeorge Monbiot, political activist and columnist for the Guardian, wrote an article on the improbability of the conspiracies cited in \"Loose Change\", and then wrote a follow-up article in response to negative comments from some of his readers. On SModcast, Kevin Smith discussed \"Loose Change\" and other conspiracy videos about aliens and various things. However, he maintains that he enjoys the film purely as entertainment, and does not believe or agree with the theories presented in the film. The Best Page in the Universe parodied the movie with a short video, \"Unfastened Coins\", that \"exposes\" a \"Titanic\"-sinking conspiracy, and an article mocking the logic of conspiracy theories in the film. The History Channel aired a two-hour episode entitled \"The 9/11 Conspiracies: Fact or Fiction?\" featuring interviews with the creators of \"Loose Change\".\n\nIn Britain, BBC's documentary television show \"The Conspiracy Files\" aired two documentaries focused on 9/11 and the conspiracy theories surrounding the collapse of WTC7. Several claims made by \"Loose Change\" were investigated and specifically rejected. Dylan Avery was interviewed for the program, which cast him in a negative light.\n\nA gapless album soundtrack for \"Loose Change: 2nd Edition\" was released in December 2006 by now-defunct company \"Third i Records\" and features hip-hop music by various artists. \"The Beats of Loose Change\" featured music by \"DJ Skooly\", who was Dylan Avery's roommate Dustin Marshall along with Marshall's friends' work: Josue Guadalupe (\"Swae Da Ricanstrukta\") and Nick Hernandez (\"Nick Tha 1da\"). \"The Beats of Loose Change\" also included vocals from the film.\n\nThe \"Loose Change: 2nd Edition\" DVD release had optional \"music-only\" and \"vocals-only\" features for the film.\n\n\"More Beats of Loose Change\" featured music from \"Loose Change: The Final Cut\" and was a rare album release that featured new music with a primary focus on a hip-hop score. There were also full submitted rock and rap tracks. This was another \"gapless album\" and was also noted as \"More Beats of Loose Change: The Loose Change 3rd Edition Soundtrack\". This album also included key quotes and narration that was used in the film. The track \"Opinions\" was also on the original \"Beats of Loose Change\" as \"What They Saw\". Also, the track \"Hani Hanjour\" may share the same title as a track from \"The Beats of Loose Change\", but it was a complete different melody.\n\nThe \"Loose Change: Final Cut\" DVD release also had optional \"music-only\" and \"vocals-only\" features for the film.\nOriginal music for the 2009 revision \"Loose Change 9/11: An American Coup\" was composed by \"Mic Cartier\". On June 24, 2018, the official soundtrack to this movie was released on CD Baby and subsequently to other streaming websites.\n\nIn 2008, film director David Lynch was interviewed on Dutch television about \"Loose Change\", to which he said that the film made him look at what he thought he saw, that he now had questions and \"...no answers.\"\n\nIn his book \"American Conspiracies\", specifically in Chapter 12 (\"What really happened on September 11?\"), former Governor of Minnesota Jesse Ventura wrote that he urged \"everyone to see\" the documentary \"Loose Change\". The version Ventura saw was the 2007 (Final Cut) and he wrote that from the film, he was \"amazed at the many firefighters and other eyewitnesses who talked about a whole series of explosions before and during the collapse of the buildings.\"\n\nIn 2011, film writer and director Kevin Smith stated that he \"loved\" \"Loose Change\" and said it was a compelling watch. In 2012, Smith said \"Loose Change\" was a \"gripping, well-made film\", \"excellent filmmaking\", but said he did not know if any of it was true.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12479427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12479427", "title": "Middle Eastern mythology", "text": "Middle Eastern mythology\n\nMiddle East mythology includes:\n"}
{"id": "28790551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28790551", "title": "Mining Encyclopedia", "text": "Mining Encyclopedia\n\nThe Mining Encyclopedia () is a Ukrainian language comprehensive set of encyclopedias about the science and technology of mining. The encyclopedias were compiled by more than 100 of the leading earth scientists in Ukraine and overseas, headed by Volodymyr Biletskyy.\n\nThe first installment of the project, the \"Explanatory Dictionary of Mining\" () was published in 1998 by the Donetsk National Technical University and is now available online.\n\nThe second phase of the project involved the publication of the 3-volume \"Encyclopedic Dictionary of Mining\" () between 2001–2004. This set contains 12,700 encyclopedic articles.\n\nThe third stage involved the publication of the 3-volume \"Concise Mining Encyclopaedia\" () between 2004–2013. This comprehensive set contains 17,350 entries, with numerous illustrations. A valuable feature of the encyclopedia is that all entries are written simultaneously in Ukrainian, Russian, English and German languages.\n\nThese encyclopedias are used as textbooks at the National Mining University of Ukraine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48796927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48796927", "title": "Nelson Thall", "text": "Nelson Thall\n\nNelson Spencer Thall (born November 7, 1952) is a media scientist and Marshall McLuhan scholar most noted for his portrayal of media commentator Lenny Bloom. Thall is a member of one of the Five Families that controls the Toronto Star newspaper. One of the last graduate students of McLuhan, Thall produced and hosted the Corus Entertainment series \" Cloak & Dagger\" discussing the effects of media with noted guests such as Alex Jones , David Icke , Andreas von Bülow. During the last two years of the show on Corus and later via online streaming radio, Lenny Bloom was joined by Chicago-based activist Sherman Skolnick.\n\nAs a former Director and Chief Archivist of the McLuhan Center On Global Communications Thall, in 1991, was the recipient of the Marshall McLuhan Distinguished Teachers Award and on May 7, 1996 represented the Writers Guild of Canada before the Canadian Artists and Producers Professional Relations Tribunal, writing the legal definition of terms such as 'multimedia' into law. Also in 1996, Bill Gates requested his contribution to 'Web-Weaving : Intranets, Extranets and Strategic Alliances' by Paula Boyle and Peter Lloyd where he updated the definition of The Global Village. From 1997-2002 he served on the Board of Directors of Torstar.\n\nIn December 30, 1999, Thall joined the Board of Directors of Stan Lee Media Inc.\n\nIn April 2004, Toronto Police entered Thall's residence without a search warrant thus contravening his Rights as granted under the Canadian Constitution. This illegal entry by police occurred only weeks after Cloak & Dagger Radio Show on AM640 broadcast live interviews with police informants who exposed internal police union corruption. Thall was arrested but never convicted, bail money and items seized returned to him by police. The break-in by police was reported in the newspaper. His lawyer, Eddie Greenspan Q.C. claimed that his client was harassed as a result of his work on radio.\n"}
{"id": "14315833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14315833", "title": "Orazio De Santis", "text": "Orazio De Santis\n\nOrazio di Santis (active 1568–1577) was an Italian engraver of the Renaissance period. He was probably born in L'Aquila. He made prints based on designs of Pompeo Aquilano. Also 74 plates of antique statues in Rome, the joint work of Santis and Cherubino Alberti, published in 1584.\n"}
{"id": "32192381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32192381", "title": "Per Linguam", "text": "Per Linguam\n\nPer Linguam is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Stellenbosch University. It covers topics related to language learning and applied language studies and has more recently started including a focus on multilingualism and educational psychology. The issue of multilingualism, in particular, has been identified as an important issue in South Africa.\n\n\"Per Linguam\" was established in 1985. The current editor-in-chief is Christa van der Walt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2779316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2779316", "title": "Restavek", "text": "Restavek\n\nA restavek (or restavec) is a child in Haiti who is sent by his or her parents to work for a host household as a domestic servant because the parents lack the resources required to support the child. The term comes from the French language \"rester avec\", \"to stay with\". Parents unable to care for children may send them to live with wealthier (or less poor) families; often their own relatives or friends. Often the children are from rural areas and relatives who host restaveks live in more urban ones. The expectation is that the children will receive food and housing (and sometimes an education) in exchange for doing housework. However, many restaveks live in poverty, may not receive proper education, and are at grave risk for physical, emotional, and sexual abuse. The restavek system is tolerated in Haitian culture, but not considered to be preferable. The practice meets formal international definitions of modern day slavery and child trafficking, and affects an estimated 300,000 Haitian children. The number of CDW (Child Domestic Workers) in Haiti, defined as 1) living away from parents' home 2) not following normal progression in education 3) working more than other children, is more than 400,000. 25% of Haitian children age 5–17 live away from their biological parents.\n\nSlavery has existed in Haiti since Columbus first landed on the island in 1492. Haiti proclaimed independence in 1804. France applied several rigid fines and prevented Haiti from accessing international resources, putting a heavy burden on Haiti's economy that detracted from social spending for many years. The restavek tradition dates back centuries. Following the 2010 earthquake, thousands of individuals in Haiti were displaced from their homes and families. According to anecdotal evidence many of these individuals were children who would have nowhere to turn but to fall into the Haitian restavèk population. Along with displacement due to the occurrences of natural disasters, children are also highly recruited into becoming restavèks by recruiters looking to find domestic servants for families. Many street children are former domestic servants who were dismissed by or ran away from the families they worked for. However, these children have not yet escaped the restavèk life; instead, they are shifting into a different dimension of it that includes their exploitation in begging rings and prostitution.\n\nMany parents send their children to be restaveks expecting them to have a better life. Poor rural parents who cannot provide their children with clean water, food, and education send them away, usually to cities, to find these opportunities as restaveks.\n\nRestaveks are unpaid and have no power or recourse within the family. Unlike slaves in the traditional sense, restaveks are not bought or sold or owned, could run away or return to their families, and are typically released from servitude when they become adults; however, the restavek system is commonly understood to be a form of slavery. Often host families dismiss their restaveks before they turn 15, since by law that is the age they would begin having to be paid; many then live on the street. Increasingly, paid middlemen act as recruiters to place children with host families, and it is becoming more common to place children with strangers. Children often have no way to get back in touch with their families.\nA 2009 study by the Pan American Development Foundation found that, \"leading indicators of restavèk treatment include work expectations equivalent to adult servants and long hours that surpass the cultural norm for children’s work at home.\" A contradicting 2002 survey found that restaveks were allowed to sleep as long as or longer than the household children, received fewer beatings, 60 percent or more attended school, and many had their own bed or mat.\nSome restaveks do receive proper nutrition and education, but they are in the minority.\nAccording to the Pan American Development Foundation, \"Education is also an important indicator in detecting child domesticity. Children in domesticity may or may not attend school, but when they do attend, it is generally an inferior school compared to other children... and their rates of non-enrollment are higher than non-restavèk children in the home.\"\n\nThe estimates for numbers of restaveks in Haiti range from 100,000 to 500,000. A 2002 door-to-door survey found the number of restaveks under age 17 in Haiti to be 173,000, 59 percent of them girls.\n\nAs poverty and political turmoil increase, the reported number of restaveks continues to rise dramatically. In 2009, the Pan American Development Foundation published the findings of an extensive door-to-door survey conducted in several cities in Haiti, focused on restaveks. The findings document thousands of restaveks living in Haiti. The report also found that 11% of households who have restaveks working for them also send their own children to work as restaveks for someone else.\n\nIn 2010, it is believed that the earthquake has caused many more children to become restaveks, as children who were orphaned by the quake could potentially be turned over by distant relatives who cannot care for them.\n\nTwo major factors that perpetuate the restavek system are widespread poverty and a societal acceptance of the practice. Parents who cannot provide for their children continue to send them to be restaveks. Haiti, a nation of 10 million people, is the most poverty-stricken in the western hemisphere. Guerda Lexima-Constant, a child rights advocate with the Haitian Limyè Lavi Foundation, says: \"I have yet to meet anyone who wanted to send their kid to be a restavek. Parents are forced to because of a lot of national and international givens. The [economic] means they used to have, they don’t anymore. The invasion of foreign rice, eggs, and other things on the market by big business, destroying the peasant economy... there’s been a whole chain of events that makes some people have to send their child away.\"\nThe practice of restavek is widely accepted in Haitian culture, although the upper classes have increasingly begun to look down on it. The connotation of the word restavek is understood to be negative, implying servility.\nIndividual factors that increase a child's likelihood of becoming a restavek include lack of access to clean water, lack of educational opportunities, access to family in a city, and illness or loss of one or both parents. Haiti has too few orphanages for its abundance of orphans, putting them at high risk of becoming restaveks.\n\nEfforts exist to address the root cause of child servitude. Improving the economy, especially through government support for the rural population, would undermine parents’ incentive to give children up, as would an improved health care and education system. Parents would not be as easily pressured by recruiters to hand their children over to become restaveks if they were provided with aid such as food, clothing, and clean water.\n\nIn May 2009, over 500 Haitian leaders gathered in Port-au-Prince, Haiti to discuss the restavek condition and how to make positive changes to this complex problem. Leaders from all facets of society attended the full-day session and conference organizers from The Jean Cadet Restavec Foundation and Fondation Maurice Sixto hope that this dialog is the start of a large grass-roots movement to, at a minimum, stop the abuse of restavek children. The Restavec Freedom Foundation hosted 13 additional conferences titled \"Compassion and Courage\" across Haiti. These conferences were hosted from the spring 2012 through the spring of 2013 and asked community leaders and pastors to take a stand on the issue of restavek. Over 3,000 leaders participated in these conferences and have agreed to take the lead in their respective communities to bring an end to the restavek situation.\n\nOther organizations in Haiti, such as Restavek Freedom Alliance, BEM Inc. are also actively working in south-western Haiti with restavek children. Organizations such as the Center for Action and Development (CAD) and L'Escale in Port-au-Prince exist to house, feed, and give medical and psychological care to escaped restaveks while looking to send them back to their families.\n\nJean-Robert Cadet vividly recounted his life as a restavek. According to him, a term for children staying with host families who do not abuse them is \"timoun ki rete kay moun\" (Kreyol for \"child who stays in a person's house.\")\n\n\"Law & Order\": \"Chattel\" (episode 19.8, original airdate January 7, 2009) depicts the discovery, investigation, and disposition of a ring of white Americans who adopt Haitian children and employ them as restaveks.\n\n\"Cross Current\" by Christine Kling is a mystery novel set in South Florida that depicts the conditions of restaveks.\n\n\"The Philanthropist\" episode Haiti, a girl restavek is a main part of the story.\n\n\"Boston Legal\": In the episode \"Fat Burner\" (season 3, episode 15), Attorney Clarence Bell gives representation to a girl restavek who, after being impregnated by her master, stabbed the man to death after he had informed her that he intended to sell her child.\n\n"}
{"id": "7243319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7243319", "title": "Sandra Bem", "text": "Sandra Bem\n\nSandra Ruth Lipsitz Bem (June 22, 1944 – May 20, 2014) was an American psychologist known for her works in androgyny and gender studies. Her pioneering work on gender roles, gender polarization and gender stereotypes led directly to more equal employment opportunities for women in the United States.\n\nBem was an American psychologist known for her works in androgyny and gender studies. Bem and her husband Daryl Bem advocated egalitarian marriage. The husband-wife team became highly demanded as speakers on the negative impacts of sex role stereotypes on individuals and society. At the time, there was a lack of empirical evidence to support their assertions because this was uncharted territory, and so Sandra Bem became very interested and determined to gather data that would support the detrimental and limiting effects of traditional sex roles. In her early career, she was heavily involved in women's liberation movement, and she did work on sex-biased job advertising. Her involvement led to being a contributor to landmark cases concerning recruitment of women in the work force against companies such as AT&T and the Pittsburgh Press.\n\nEarly on in Bem's career she created the Bem Sex-Role Inventory (BSRI), which is an inventory that acknowledges that individuals may exhibit both male and female characteristics. The BSRI is a scale developed to determine what kind of sex role an individual fulfills. It is a self-report inventory that asks participants how well 60 different attributes describe themselves by using a seven-point scale. These attributes reflect the definition of masculinity (20 questions) and femininity (20 questions), and the remaining 20 questions were merely filler questions (Bem, 1993). In this inventory the feminine and masculine items were chosen on what was culturally appropriate for males and females at that time in the early 1970s. The BSRI was later used to measure psychological flexibility and behavioral indicators. Bem also developed the gender schema theory. According to the gender schema theory, \"the child learns to evaluate his or her adequacy as a person in terms of the gender schema, to match his or her preferences, attitudes, behaviors, and personal attributes against the prototypes stored within it.\" This theory states that an individual uses gender as a way to organize various things in a person's life into categories. Her research questioned the social beliefs and assumptions that sex roles are opposite, bipolar, and mutually exclusive. The data she collected were supportive of a merging of male and female traits to enable a person to be a fully functioning, adaptive human over an emphasis on gender stereotypes.\n\nShe asserted that masculine and feminine dimensions could be divided into two spheres, rather than one: \nA person with high masculine and low feminine identification would be categorized as \"masculine\". \nA person with high feminine identification and low masculine identification, would be categorized as \"feminine\". \nA person who had high identification with both characteristics would be categorized as \"androgynous\". \nA person who has low identification with both dimensions would be considered \"undifferentiated\".\n\nOne of Bem's main arguments was that traditional gender roles are restrictive for both men and women, and can have negative consequences for individuals as well as society as a whole.\n\nAs previously mentioned, a person could be categorized as \"androgynous\" when taking the BSRI. Androgyny is defined as \"the integration of both masculinity and femininity in a single individual\". Androgyny allows one to freely engage in both masculine and feminine behaviors. According to Bem, people's behavior can demonstrate what she defined as situational appropriateness. Situational appropriateness is demonstrated when behavior is reflective of one's environment. For example, a woman demonstrating knowledge of sports at a basketball game is appropriate. Androgyny may also blend modalities. An example of androgyny blending modalities would be a woman being both assertive and compassionate when firing someone from a job. \n\nSandra Bem received many awards for her research. Her first was the American Psychological Association Distinguished Scientific Award for an Early Career contribution to Psychology in 1976. In 1977 she was awarded the Distinguished Publication Award of the Association of Women in Psychology and in 1980 she received the Young Scholar Award of the American Association of University Women (Makosky, 1990). In 1995, she was selected as an “Eminent Woman in Psychology” by the Divisions of General Psychology and History of Psychology of the American Psychological Association. Critics of Bem's work generally argued against the political nature of her theories and her objectivity in the material which she studied.\n\nBem attended Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, now known as Carnegie–Mellon University, (1961–1965) and majored in psychology. She recalls the head of the counseling center, Bob Morgan, encouraging her to study to become a psychiatrist. This was the first time such a high-status career had ever been suggested to her. Subsequently, she entered the University of Michigan in 1965 and obtained her Ph.D. in developmental psychology in 1968. Her dissertation focused primarily on cognitive processing and problem solving with young children. Her main influence while at the University of Michigan was experimental psychologist David Birch. Her early work focused on the behavior of young children and their ability to solve problems, and utilize self-control and instruction.\n\nAfter obtaining her Ph.D., Bem got a full-time tenure-track position as a professor at Carnegie-Mellon for three years and then moved on to work at Stanford University, where she worked until 1978. She left Stanford University because her application for tenure was denied. She and husband Daryl Bem both took tenured teaching positions at Cornell University in 1978, where she became a psychology professor and the director of the women's studies program. While at Cornell, Bem focused research on gender schema theory, sexuality, and clinical psychology until she retired in 2010.\n\nBem was born June 22, 1944 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to Peter and Lillian Lipsitz. She grew up in a working class family with one younger sister, Beverly. Both of Bem's parents worked throughout her life, so she grew up with the assumption that she would always be working. Her mother encouraged her to be the absolute best that she could be, and that \"being just a housewife was not very desirable.\"\n\nBem's first career goal was to be a secretary like her mother, so that she could have her own phone and desk – symbols of autonomy and status that her father never had. Bem was raised by her Jewish working class parents in a government-subsidized neighborhood for the first eight years of her life. During Bem's childhood, her mother would have violent outburst and fights with her father causing her family much distress. Her mother was the dominant figure in her parents' relationship, and Bem recalls having a very tumultuous childhood, during which Mrs. Lipsitz would become extremely emotional while upset and throw objects during arguments. Bem also stated that she was quite unsuccessful in her attempts at flirting and dating with men, and so she internalized a belief that no man would ever want to marry her, which helped to solidify her career ambitions.\n\nBem did eventually get married, to Daryl Bem, also a psychology professor. The two met when she took his social psychology class at Carnegie–Mellon University. She was 20 years old at the time. She initially rejected his marriage proposal, having concerns about her own career. The two later agreed on an egalitarian marriage, in which they agreed to share in making decisions, doing household chores, supporting each other's careers, and performing parenting duties – all as equally as possible. With this in place, she consented to the marriage. After months of dating, the two were married on June 6, 1965. Much of Bem's family, including her mother, would not attend the wedding because it was a non-Jewish affair and they did not agree with this decision.\n\nThe Bems would go on to have two children together. They also had a grandson, Felix Viksne Bem (son of daughter Emily). While they eventually chose to live separately, they remained married until Sandra's death on May 20, 2014.\n\nBem was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and, four years after diagnosis and after pursuing experimental treatments, she followed through with her plan to die by suicide at her home in Ithaca on May 20, 2014. Her husband, Daryl, was present with her when she died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24004743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24004743", "title": "Scandinavica (journal)", "text": "Scandinavica (journal)\n\nScandinavica: An international journal of Scandinavian studies is a semiannual journal of Scandinavian studies.\n"}
{"id": "39542531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39542531", "title": "Scottish art in the eighteenth century", "text": "Scottish art in the eighteenth century\n\nScottish art in the eighteenth century is the body of visual art made in Scotland, by Scots, or about Scottish subjects, in the eighteenth century. This period saw development of professionalisation, with art academies were established in Edinburgh and Glasgow. Art was increasingly influenced by Neoclassicism, the Enlightenment and towards the end of the century by Romanticism, with Italy becoming a major centre of Scottish art.\n\nThe origins of the tradition of Scottish landscape painting are in the capriccios of Italian and Dutch landscapes undertaken by James Norie and his sons. These were further developed by Jacob More, who added a romantic sensibility to the Scottish landscape. Alexander Nasmyth helped found the Scottish landscape tradition and was highly influential as a teacher in Edinburgh on the subsequent generation of artists. John Knox linked it with the Romantic works of Walter Scott and was one of the first artists to take an interest in the urban landscape of Glasgow. Aberdeen-born John Alexander and William Mossman were the leading portrait artists of the first half of the century. Allan Ramsay emerged as the leading portrait painter of the mid-century and to the royal family, noted for his intimate representations. Towards the end of the century Henry Raeburn emerged as the leading portraitist and one of the first artists to spend the majority of their career in Scotland, extending his range to leading figures of the Enlightenment and most famous for his depiction of the \"Skating Minister\".\n\nNeoclassicism was pioneered by Gavin Hamilton and his proteges, the brothers John and Alexander Runciman, and David Allan. Alexander Runciman pioneered historical painting and Alan helped develop genre art, both of which would be taken up by Scottish artists in the next century. After the Acts of Union in 1707 there was very little patronage for large and expensive works of art in Scotland. With the growth of civic development there was an increasing demand for public statuary and the portrait bust also became popular. Commissions of new statuary tended to be made in relatively cheap lead and even more economical painted or gilded plaster. From the late eighteenth century there are a handful of examples of work from Scottish artists.\n\nMany Scottish painters of the early part of the eighteenth century remained largely artisans. Roderick Chalmers' (fl. 1709–30) painting \"The Edinburgh Trades\" (1720) shows the artist himself, perhaps ironically, among the glaziers, wrights and masons of the burgh. Thomas Warrender (fl. 1673–1713) produced the \"Allegorical Still Life\" (after 1708), of a letter board that seems to be a commentary on the union of 1707, but he made his living as a house decorator, working closely with architects, including William Adam. He may have trained James Norie (1684–1757), who with his sons James (1711–36) and Robert (d. 1766), painted the houses of the peerage with Scottish landscapes that were pastiches of Italian and Dutch landscapes. They tutored many artists and have been credited with the inception of the tradition of Scottish landscape painting that would come to fruition from the late eighteenth century. The painters Allan Ramsay (1713–84), Gavin Hamilton (1723–98), the brothers John (1744–68/9) and Alexander Runciman (1736–85), Jacob More (1740–93) and David Allan (1744–96), mostly began in the tradition of the Nories, but were artists of European significance, spending considerable portions of their careers outside Scotland. Henry Raeburn (1756–1823) was the most significant artist of the period to pursue his entire career in Scotland, born in Edinburgh and returning there after a trip to Italy in 1786.\n\nIn 1729 there was an attempt to found a school of painting in Edinburgh as the Academy of St. Luke, named after the Renaissance Accademia di San Luca in Rome. Its sponsors were the elder Norie, the poet Allan Ramsay and William Adam. Its president was George Marshall, a painter of still lives and portraits, and its treasurer was the engraver Richard Cooper. Other members included Cooper's student Robert Strange, the two younger Nories, the portrait painters John Alexander (c. 1690-c. 1733) and Allan Ramsay, son of the poet (1713–84). The success of the group was limited by its associations with Jacobitism, with Strange printing bank notes for the rebels. The Foulis Academy was founded in Glasgow in 1754 by the printmaking brothers Robert and Andrew Foulis, and in Edinburgh the Board of Trustees for Fisheries, Manufactures and Improvements in Scotland established the Trustees Drawing Academy in 1760, indicating that art was now part of civic life and not just aristocratic patronage.\n\nThe growing importance of art can be seen in the post of Royal Painter and Limner, created in 1702 for George Ogilvie. The duties included \"drawing pictures of our [Monarch's] person or of our successors or others of our royal family for the decorment of our houses and palaces\". However, from 1723 to 1823 the office was a sinecure held by members of the Abercrombie family, not necessarily connected with artistic ability.\n\nAll the major painters of the period were to varying degrees influenced by forms of Neoclassicism, which revived Greek and Roman form of artistic expression. Italy became an important point of reference for Scottish artists, with over fifty artists and architects known to have travelled there in the period 1730–80 as part of a Grand Tour, to paint, sample the art and learn from Italian masters. With so many artists visiting or resident, Rome became almost a \"Third Academy)\" for Scots. In the second half of the century Scots became the major figures in the trade in antique sculpture, particularly Gavin Hamilton, Colin Morison (1732–1801) and James Byres (1734–1817), making them the arbiters of British taste in this area. However, the only major Scottish collection of marble before the nineteenth century was that of James Johnstone, 2nd Marquess of Annandale.\n\nScottish artists in the later eighteenth century were strongly influenced by the Enlightenment, which stressed rationalism and human inquiry, of which Scotland was a major centre of influence. Artists like Alan Ramsey formed The Select Society, with philosophers David Hume and Adam Smith and produced his \"Dialogue on Taste\", which made a major contribution to the study of aesthetics. Scotland also played a major part in the origins of the Romantic movement through the publication of James Macpherson's Ossian cycle, which was proclaimed as a Celtic equivalent of the Classical epics. \"Fingal\", written in 1762, was speedily translated into many European languages, and its deep appreciation of natural beauty and the melancholy tenderness of its treatment of the ancient legend did more than any single work to bring about the Romantic movement in European, and especially in German literature, influencing Herder and Goethe.\n\nThe origins of the Scottish landscape painting tradition are in the Nories' capriccios or pastiches of Italian and Dutch landscapes. Jacob More, having trained with the Nories, moved to Italy in 1773 and is chiefly known as a landscape painter. This period saw a shift in attitudes to the Highlands and mountain landscapes in general, from viewing them as hostile, empty regions occupied by backwards and marginal people, to interpreting them as aesthetically pleasing exemplars of nature, occupied by rugged primitives, which were now depicted in a dramatic fashion. Produced before his departure to Italy, More's series of four \"Falls of Clyde\" (1771–73) paintings have been described by art historian Duncan Macmillan as treating the waterfalls as \"a kind of natural national monument\" and has been seen as an early work in developing a romantic sensibility to the Scottish landscape.\n\nAlexander Nasmyth visited Italy and worked in London, but returned to his native Edinburgh for most of his career. He produced work in a large range of forms, including his portrait of Romantic poet Robert Burns, which depicts him against a dramatic Scottish background, but he is chiefly remembered for his landscapes and is described in the \"Oxford Dictionary of Art\" as \"the founder of the Scottish landscape tradition\". He was also a highly influential teacher at the Trustees Drawing Academy in Edinburgh. The work of John Knox (1778–1845) continued the theme of landscape, directly linking it with the Romantic works of Walter Scott. He was also among the first artists to take a major interest in depicting the urban landscape of Glasgow. Alexander Runciman was probably the first artist to paint Scottish landscapes in watercolours in the more romantic style that was emerging towards the end of the century.\n\nAberdeen-born John Alexander and William Mossman were the leading portrait artists of the first half of the century. John Alexander was born in Aberdeen and was a great grandson of portrait painter George Jamesone. He studied in London and Rome, returning to Scotland about 1720. His younger contemporary William Mossman (1700–71) was also from Aberdeen and studied in Rome. Both worked predominately in the north-east around their home city, but also painted many of the figures of early-Enlightenment Edinburgh. Alexander's best known work included the portrait of George Drummond the Lord Provost of Edinburgh (1756), who had been responsible for the creation of the New Town in Edinburgh and the Royal Infirmary, which is shown in the background of the painting. Mosman's work included his portrait of \"John Campbell of the Bank\" (1749), who was chief cashier of the Royal Bank of Scotland and a Whig, but who is depicted in the recently forbidden Highland Dress. Because of his Jacobite sympathies Alexander was forced to leave for the continent after the rebellion of 1745, and in Rome he made a living painting the Jacobite expatriates who congregated there, before his return a few years later.\n\nAllan Ramsay studied in Sweden, London and Italy before basing himself in Edinburgh, where he established himself as a leading portrait painter to the Scottish nobility and he undertook portraits of many of the major figures of the Scottish Enlightenment, including his friend the philosopher David Hume and the visiting Jean-Jacques Rousseau. After a second visit to Italy he moved to London in 1757 and from 1761 he was Principal Painter in Ordinary to George III. He now focused on royal portraits, often presented by the king to ambassadors and colonial governors. His work has been seen as anticipating the grand manner of Joshua Reynolds, but many of his early portraits, particularly of women, are less formal and more intimate studies.\n\nThe leading portrait painter of the second half of the century was Henry Raeburn (1756–1823). He was the first significant artist to pursue his entire career in Scotland. Born in Edinburgh and returning there after a trip to Italy in 1786, he is most famous for his intimate portraits of leading figures in Scottish life, going beyond the aristocracy to lawyers, doctors, professors, writers and ministers, adding elements of Romanticism to the Grand Manner tradition of Joshua Reynolds. The most famous painting attributed to him is \"The Reverend Robert Walker Skating on Duddingston Loch\", known as \"The Skating Minister\". He became a knight in 1822 and the King's painter and limner in 1823, marking a return to the post being associated with the production of art.\n\nGavin Hamilton spent almost his entire career in Italy and emerged as a pioneering neoclassical painter of historical and mythical themes, including his depictions of scenes from Homer's \"Iliad\", as well as having been an informal tutor to British artists, early archaeologist and antiquarian. Many of his works can be seen as Enlightenment speculations about the origins of society and politics, including the \"Death of Lucretia\" (1768), an event thought to be critical to the birth of the Roman Republic. His classicism would be a major influence on French artist Jacques-Louis David (1748–1825).\n\nJohn and Alexander Runciman both gained reputations as painters of mythological and historical themes. They travelled to Italy, where they worked with Hamilton. John died in 1768/9 and Alexander returned home. His most widely known work, distributed in etchings, was mythological. His version of \"The Origin of Painting\" (1773), depicting Pliny's story of a young Corinthian woman outlining a shadow on the wall, has her hand guided by Cupid, suggesting the ultimate motivation for art was love. The same theme was painted by another of Hamilton's proteges, David Allan, two years later. In the late eighteenth century Ossian became a common subject for Scottish artists, and works were undertaken by Alexander Runciman and David Allan among others.\n\nAlexander also produced one of the earliest examples of a Scottish historical painting, showing the escape of Mary, Queen of Scots from Loch Leven Castle, which would become a major form in the nineteenth century. Allan returned to Edinburgh in 1780, became director and master of the Academy of Arts in 1786. Here he produced his most famous work, with illustrations of themes from Scottish life, earning him the title of \"the Scottish Hogarth\". These included \"Highland Wedding, Blair Athol\" (1780) and illustrations for the elder Allan Ramsey's \"Gentle Shepherd\" (1788). These themes would be taken up by David Wilkie (1785–1841), often noted as the founder of the British tradition of genre painting.\n\nAfter the Acts of Union in 1707 the royal family spent very little time in, or money on, Scottish palaces and many Scottish nobles followed the royal court to England, tending to invest in sculpture for their residences in London, rather than their estates in Scotland. With the growth of civic development there was an increasing demand for public statuary, often with the patronage of a public institution, such as the lead figure of George II at the newly founded Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh in 1753 or the figure of the judge Duncan Forbes for the Outer Parliament House in 1752. The portrait bust, designed for interior display, also became popular. By the middle of the century statuary were preferred to painted portraits among the aristocracy.\n\nAs in England, commissions of new statuary tended to be made in relatively cheap lead and even more economical painted or gilded plaster. The plasterwork of John Cheere's yard in London was particularly in demand. Also important was the work from the yard of John Bacon (1740–99) who produced a monument for Robert Dundas (d. 1787) at Borthwick Church and one for Mrs Allardyce (d. 1787) at West Church, Aberdeen. Bacon was also a partner in Mrs Eleanor Coade's \"Artificial Stone Manufactory\" at Lambeth in London. This produced a buff coloured ceramic that could be moulded to provide fine detail, and be fired in sections, but was impervious to frost and fire. Much cheaper than carved stone, Coade stone was used for sphinxes, balustrading, capitals, coat of arms, tablets, ornamental vases, church monuments and fonts. It was used extensively by the Adam brothers, particularly in the houses they built in Scotland, such as Cullen, Banff, Culzean Castle, Ayrshire, Dunbar Castle, East Lothian, Register House, Edinburgh, Gosford House, East Lothian and Wedderburn, Berwickshire. As well as supplying sculpture, candelabra and cippi, the Adam family supplied designs to the Carron Company, founded in 1759, which produced a wide range of iron products, including stoves, safes, vases and tablets.\n\nFrom the late eighteenth century there are a handful of examples of work from Scottish artists. These included statues of druids on the portico of Penicuik House carved by one \"Willie Jeans\" in 1776; the marble bust of James Gillespie by the obscure Robert Burn (fl. 1790–1816) and the bronze figure in Roman armour at the City Chambers, Edinburgh, which may represent Charles Edward Stuart or Louis XV. James Tassie (1735–99) was born in Glasgow and trained as a stonemason. He attended the Foulis Academy, before moving to Dublin and then London. He developed a formula for making casts in vitreous paste and manufactured casts of antique carved gems. He also produced portrait medallions and among his sitters were many leading figures in Scottish intellectual life, such as Adam Smith, David Hume and Henry Raeburn. His medallions were popular when produced in Wedgwood jasper and were used by the Carron Company to be cast in iron.\n\n"}
{"id": "14661340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14661340", "title": "Sexual revolution in 1960s United States", "text": "Sexual revolution in 1960s United States\n\nThe 1960s in the United States are often perceived today as a period of profound societal change, one in which a great many politically minded individuals, who on the whole were young and educated, sought to influence the status quo.\n\nAttitudes to a variety of issues changed, sometimes radically, throughout the decade. The urge to 'find oneself', the activism of the 1960s, and the quest for autonomy were characterized by changes towards sexual attitudes at the time. These changes to sexual attitudes and behavior during the period are often today referred to generally under the blanket metaphor of 'sexual revolution'.\n\nMost of the relevant data are limited in time and scope, and nationally representative data are almost nonexistent prior to the AIDS epidemic. Despite this, there is some quantitative evidence that cohorts of young adults after the mid-1960s exhibited a greater number of sexual partners as well as a greater likelihood of premarital sex, among other changes in sexual behavior. In fact, data from historical reports published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) appear to demonstrate that measures of non-traditional sexual behavior (e.g., gonorrhea incidence, births out of wedlock, and births to teenagers) began to rise dramatically as early as the mid to late 1950s.\n\nMany interrelated factors underlie these changes in sexual behavior. Explanations have often focused on the spread of the birth control pill, increasingly permissive attitudes toward sex, and shifting moral values during the 1960s and 1970s. However, modern medicine may have also played a role. The discovery of penicillin led to significant reductions in syphilis mortality, which consequently may have spurred an increase in non-traditional sex.\n\nWith its roots in the first perceived sexual revolution in the 1920s, this 'revolution' in 1960s America encompassed many groups who are now synonymous with the era. Feminists, gay rights campaigners, hippies and many other political movements were all important components and facilitators of change.\n\nThe modern consensus is that the sexual revolution in 1960s America was typified by a dramatic shift in traditional values related to sex, and sexuality. Sex became more socially acceptable outside the strict boundaries of heterosexual marriage. In 1969, \"Blue Movie\", directed by Andy Warhol, was the first adult erotic film depicting explicit sex to receive wide theatrical release in the United States. The film was a seminal film in the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984) and helped inaugurate the \"porno chic\", phenomenon in modern American culture. During this time, porn was being publicly discussed by celebrities, and taken seriously by critics. According to Warhol, \"Blue Movie\" was a major influence in the making of \"Last Tango in Paris\", an internationally controversial erotic drama film, starring Marlon Brando, and released a few years after \"Blue Movie\" was made. In 1970, \"Mona\", the second adult erotic film, after \"Blue Movie\", depicting explicit sex that received a wide theatrical release in the United States, was shown. Following mentions by Johnny Carson on his popular TV show, and Bob Hope on TV as well, the adult film \"Deep Throat\" achieved major box office success, despite being rudimentary by mainstream standards. In 1973, the far-more-accomplished, but still low budget adult film, \"The Devil in Miss Jones\", was the seventh most successful film of the year, and was well received by major media, including a favorable review by film critic Roger Ebert. Shortly thereafter, other adult films followed, continuing the Golden Age of Porn begun with \"Blue Movie\". Later, in 1976, \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\", based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw (and its derivative, \"My Fair Lady\"), and directed by Radley Metzger, was released theatrically and is considered, by award-winning author Toni Bentley, the \"crown jewel\" of the Golden Age of Porn.\n\nStudies have shown that, between 1965 and 1974, the number of women that had sexual intercourse prior to marriage showed a marked increase. The social and political climate of the 1960s was unique; one in which traditional values were often challenged loudly by a vocal minority.\n\nThe various areas of society clamoring for change included the Civil Rights movement, (see SCLC and SNCC) the 'New Left', and women, with various women's rights organizations appearing in the latter years of the decade in particular. This climate of change led many, particularly the young, to challenge social norms.\n\nWith the success that the Civil Rights movement was having, others who wanted change knew that the time was ripe for them to bring it about. The combination of liberal government, general economic prosperity, and the ever-present threat of nuclear annihilation marked the 1960s apart from any decade that had come before it, and while conservatism was by no means dead, liberalism enjoyed a widespread revival, which helped to facilitate the climate in which the 'sexual revolution' took place. Indeed, Lyndon B. Johnson was the first acting president to endorse birth control, a hugely important factor in the change of American sexual attitudes in the 1960s.\n\n\"The pill\" provided many women a more affordable way to avoid pregnancy. Before the pill was introduced many women did not look for long term jobs. Previously, the typical woman would jump out of the job market when she got impregnated and would reenter it when her child was of school attending age. Abortion was illegal and there were too many health risks involved in most illegal abortions. There was a visible trend in the increasing age of women at first marriage in the decades between 1930 and 1970 after contraception was provided to non-married females. As part of the woman's quiet sexual revolution, pills gave women control over their future. In a way, the ability to pursue higher education without the thought of pregnancy, gave women more equality in educational attainment. Since women could have a choice to use birth control to finish their education, a higher percentage graduated from school and college ultimately gaining professional careers.\n\nThis was due in part to fears over illegitimate pregnancy and childbirth, and social (particularly religious) qualms about contraception, which was often seen to be 'messy' and unchristian. Modernization and secularization helped to change these attitudes, and the first oral contraception was developed in 1951 partly due to Women's Rights campaigner Margaret Sanger who raised $150,000 to fund its development.\n\nWhile the Pill eventually came to be seen as a symbol of the Sexual revolution, its origins stem less from issues of women's sexual liberation and more from 1960s political agendas. In the early 1960s, President Lyndon Johnson instituted his social reform policy, The Great Society, which aimed to eliminate poverty and racial injustice.\n\nDuring this time, the Pill was endorsed and distributed by doctors as a form of population control to counter the fear of over population which coincided with President Johnson's goal to eliminate poverty. By 1960, the Food and Drug Administration had licensed the drug. 'The Pill', as it came to be known, was extraordinarily popular, and despite worries over possible side effects, by 1962, an estimated 1,187,000 women were using it.\n\nThe pill divorced contraception from the act of intercourse itself, making it more socially acceptable, and easier to tolerate for many detractors than other types of contraception (which had been around for years).\n\nHeralded as a technological marvel, the pill was a trusted product of science in an increasingly technological age, and was heralded as one of man's 'triumphs' over nature. It was often said that with the invention of the pill, the women who took it had immediately been given a new freedom—the freedom to use their bodies as they saw fit, without having to worry about the burden of unwanted pregnancy.\n\nIt was also not the case that the pill went completely unopposed. The Pill became an extremely controversial subject as Americans struggled with their thoughts on sexual morality, controlling population growth and women's control of their reproductive rights. Even by 1965, birth control was illegal in some US states, including Connecticut and New York.\n\nCampaigns by people like Estelle Griswold went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, where on June 7, 1965, it was ruled that under the First Amendment, it was not the business of the government to dictate the usage of contraception by married couples. Unmarried women who requested gynecological exams and oral contraceptives were often denied or lectured on sexual morality. Those women who were denied access to the Pill often had to visit several doctors before one would prescribe it to them. In 1972, a further ruling in \"Baird\" extended that right to unmarried couples.\n\nSome women's rights movements also heralded the pill as a method of granting women sexual liberation, and saw the popularity of the drug as just one signifier of the increasing desire for equality (sexual or otherwise) among American women. The pill and the sexual revolution was therefore an important part of the drive for sexual equality in the 1960s.\n\nAs a consequence, the pill and the sexual freedom it provided to women are frequently blamed for what many believe are regressions in quality of life. Since the sexual revolution, out-of-wedlock births, sexually transmitted diseases, teen pregnancy, and divorce have all risen considerably. Since the 60s, marriage has declined by a third and divorce has doubled. During the 1960s there were only four big STDs, now there are twenty-four. Since the sexual revolution, children living in single-parent families has tripled.\n\nDespite claims that the pill and sexual revolution were positive for women in America, some feminist writers have criticized the changes that occurred. Some books published which promised sexual freedom and liberation were not wholly positive for women, for instance Alex Comfort's \"The Joy of Sex\", which advised women \"don't get yourself raped.\"\n\nFeminist movements combined with important literature such as Betty Friedan's Feminine Mystique helped change peoples concepts of the woman’s role in relation to sex. In \"The Feminine Mystique\", Friedan tackles the issue of the domestic role of women in 1960s America and the feeling of dissatisfaction with it. Friedan believed that women should not conform to this popularized view of the feminine, (The Housewife) and that they should participate in, if not enjoy the act of sex. The book itself was very popular on college campuses, among the young and is synonymous with the counter-culture ethic. Its importance to 1960s feminism and the sexual revolution lies in that it created a new wave of thinking in regards to the domestic and sexual role of women in society\n\nEven in a time of unprecedented societal change, and burgeoning liberal views and policies, homosexuality was still widely publicly reviled, and more often than not was seen as a malaise or mental illness, instead of a legitimate sexual orientation. Indeed, throughout the 1950s and 1960s the overriding opinion of the medical establishment was that homosexuality was a developmental maladjustment. Though doctors were supposed to act as objective scientists, their conclusions undoubtedly reflected the biases of their cultural settings, which resulted in prejudices against homosexual behavior being cloaked in the language of medical authority and unproven claims being accepted by the majority of society as fact. Essentially, labeling homosexuality as a psychological condition prevented this group from being able to make demands for social and legal rights as well as cultural representation.\n\nHomosexuals were often characterized as predatory deviants who were dangerous to the rest of society. For example, the Florida Legislative Investigation Committee, between 1956 and 1965, sought out these so-called 'deviants' within the public system, with the particular focus upon teachers. The persecution of gay teachers was driven by the popular belief that homosexuals did untold damage when around vulnerable young people as naive adolescents were considered easy prey to recruitment into homosexuality by perverse teachers attempting to unnaturally reproduce. In addition, male homosexuals were often seen as inherently more dangerous (particularly to children) than lesbians, due to stereotypes and societal prejudices.\n\nMany modern commentators on the gay sexual revolution in 1960s America allege that this area of the decade has been severely under emphasized, lacking the attention that they feel it deserves. During this time, there was a large oppression of gay people, men in particular. While America was moving forward in the sexual revolution, there was still sodomy law in place not allowing gay men to have sex. One of the biggest laws that were placed was the anti-sodomy law. In the 1960s, every state had anti-sodomy laws, making it punishable for up to 10 years in prison for engaging in anal sex. It took many years before these laws to change making sodomy legal, Illinois being the first state. While it cannot be said that the 'gay revolution' had as much impact as some others during the decade (the movement only really began to gain significant momentum and more public support during the 1970s), it is important to consider the part that the gay liberation crowd had to play in the overarching 'sexual revolution'. In 1971, what was considered the first gay porno movie was shown at the 55th Street Playhouse in New York City. The movie was called \"Boys in the Sand\". With this movie, the gay community was launched into the sexual revolution and the porn industry. The biggest breakthrough for gay men was after the sexual revolution in 2003, when \"Lawrence v Texas\" made it legal in all 50 states to have anal sex. After this, the porn industry never had to make stag films nor did they have to censor their material in states that had anti-sodomy laws.\n\nIndeed, in an age of sexual revolution and urban chaos many spontaneous acts of defiance occurred as homosexuals found creative ways to resist heteronormative social codes throughout the 1960s. Frank Kameny's Mattachine Society chapter, in Washington DC, campaigned openly for gay rights by confronting various federal agencies about their discriminatory policies in 1962 and 1963. While by 1968 there were only fifteen gay and lesbian organizations in the United States, and the increase in numbers was considerably slow-paced, the appearance of a more militant approach to loosening the grip of prevailing norms contributed to widening the gay subculture to previously isolated homosexuals. Furthermore, the homophile movement had already set about undermining the dominant psychiatric view of homosexuality.\n\nThe Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations by members of the gay (LGBT) community[note 1] against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, at the Stonewall Inn, located in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. They are widely considered to constitute the single most important event leading to the gay liberation movement and the modern fight for LGBT rights in the United States.\n\nAnother important element of the 'gay sexual revolution' is how the sex/gender system that was in place throughout the 1960s allowed forms of domination to continue to oppress minority groups, such as homosexuals. The Mattachine leaders emphasized how homosexual oppression was a socially determined pattern and held that strict definitions of gender behavior led men and women to unquestioningly accept social roles that equated 'male, masculine, man only with husband and father' and that equated 'female, feminine, women only with wife and mother'. These early homosexual emancipationists saw homosexual women and men as victims of a 'language and culture that did not admit the existence of a homosexual minority'. Ultimately, the way in which the homophile movement understood the roots of its ostracism and oppression reveals how the homosexual crowd fought for an expansion of rights based on similar theories that drove some heterosexual women to reject American society’s traditional ideologies of sexual norms.\n\nThe Stonewall riots of 1969 marked an increase in both public awareness of gay rights campaigners, and also in the willingness of homosexuals across America to campaign for the rights they believed that they were due. However, it would be misleading to conclude that resistance to homosexual oppression began with 'Stonewall'. As David Allyn has argued numerous acts of small-scale resistance are required for political movements to take shape and the years preceding 'Stonewall' played a role in creating the gay liberation movement. Arguably, the Stonewall riots have come to resemble the pivotal moment in gay rights history largely because they are characterized by a great unrecorded oral history, which has allowed for myths to be used to fill in the gaps in the story, and precisely for this reason, enabled many members of the gay community to locate their lives and struggles within this narrative. Stonewall veteran Jim Fouratt has been identified as stating: \"If you have a choice between a myth or a fact, you go with the myth.\" While the Stonewall riots were certainly a turning point in terms of precipitating an unparalleled surge of activism and organizing for gay rights, it was not the first example of rebellion against homophobia and intolerance. Moreover, gay life after 'Stonewall' was just as varied and complex as it was before. In the era following 'Stonewall' there was still a variety of approaches taken by homosexuals to propagate their message, which included not only the confrontational approach of 'Stonewall' but equally an attempt at assimilation into the broader community.\n"}
{"id": "38890522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38890522", "title": "Spoken English Corpus", "text": "Spoken English Corpus\n\nThe Spoken English Corpus (SEC) is a speech corpus used in corpus linguistics consisting of a collection of recordings of spoken British English compiled during the period 1984-7 through a collaboration, funded by IBM, between the Unit for Computer Research on the English Language (UCREL) at the University of Lancaster and the IBM Scientific Centre in Winchester. The corpus comprises 53 recorded passages, mainly recorded from the BBC, spoken in the accent usually referred to as Received Pronunciation, or RP. It covers categories such as commentary. news broadcast, lecture and dialogue. The corpus contains 52,637 words, in a recording time of 339 minutes. The compilation of the corpus is described by Lita Taylor in her 1996 article \"The Compilation of the Spoken English Corpus.\" The whole corpus in print can be purchased at Routledge.\n\nA system was devised for transcription of the intonation of the material in the recordings, and two transcribers, Gerry Knowles and Briony Williams, analysed the entire corpus. The transcription system is explained by Williams, and an experiment was conducted by Brian Pickering to assess the degree of agreement between the two transcribers on a section of the Corpus containing around 1000 tone-units which was transcribed by both transcribers. Good agreement was found.\n\nGrammatical tagging of each word was added to the text of the SEC by an automatic process; the fact that this tagging was in machine-readable form made it possible to relate grammatical and prosodic information in the texts. Subsequent work used probabilistic models to develop further the grammatical tagging and to produce automatic parsing techniques.\n\nAlthough the text and its associated tagging existed in machine-readable form, the recordings themselves existed only as tape-recordings. A collaboration, funded by the Economic and Social Research Council in 1992-4, between speech scientists at the Universities of Lancaster and Leeds in the United Kingdom set out to produce a version of the corpus which contained the recordings in digital form, time-linked to the text. The principal researchers were Gerry Knowles and Tamas Varadi (Lancaster) and Peter Roach and Simon Arnfield (Leeds). The outline of the project is set out in Knowles, and the automatic time-alignment is described by Roach and Arnfield. The digitized recordings were recorded on CD-ROM; it was subsequently made available for downloading for research purposes from Leeds University, though this facility is no longer supported.\n\nThe work on MARSEC in Lancaster and Leeds finished around 1995, but the corpus has subsequently been the object of a considerable amount of further development at the University of Aix-en-Provence, France, under the direction of Daniel Hirst. The database consists of two major components: the digitalized recordings from MARSEC and the annotations. Annotations have so far been undertaken at nine levels, including phonemes, syllables, words, stress feet, rhythm units and minor and major turn units. Two supplementary levels, the grammatical annotation by CLAWS and a Property Grammar system developed at Aix-en-Provence, are to be integrated soon. A possible disadvantage of this treatment is that the corpus can only be searched using specially written scripts. The database, together with tools, is available under GNU GPL licensing at the Aix-MARSEC project site.\n\n"}
{"id": "51223930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51223930", "title": "The 2 AM Principle: Discover the Science of Adventure", "text": "The 2 AM Principle: Discover the Science of Adventure\n\nThe \"2 am Principle: Discover the Science of Adventure,\" is a book written by human behavior scientist Jon Levy exploring his research on what causes people to live fun, exciting and remarkable lives. In the book Levy combines personal stories with research and what he calls the EPIC Model of Adventure, a four-stage process that every adventure goes through. The book was scheduled to be published by Regan Arts and released on November 8, 2016.\n\nIn the book, Levy counters the commonly held phrase \"Nothing Good Happens After 2 A.M.\", by suggesting, \"nothing good happens after 2 AM except the most EPIC experiences of your life.\" In this statement, Levy is referring to the EPIC model of Adventure.\n\nLevy postulates that all adventures follow a four-stage process. He attempts to prove this by using personal anecdotes and scientific research to show how it can be applied to everyday life.\n\nJon Levy is a human behavior scientist specializing in Influence and the Science of Adventure. Beyond his research, he is the founder of The Influencers and the Influencers Dinner, a secret dining experience and private community of thought leaders such as Olympians, Nobel laureates, and members of royalty to celebrities, scientists, musicians and executives.\n"}
{"id": "26322890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26322890", "title": "The Legend of the Hidden City", "text": "The Legend of the Hidden City\n\nThe Legend of the Hidden City was a South African action adventure series, directed by David Lister, which was broadcast by SABC and SABC2 between 1996 and 1998 as two series with a total of 39 episodes. It was also shown by Sky1 and Five in the United Kingdom, \"The Den\" in Ireland and by \"Canal Famille\" in Québec, Canada.\n\nThe series followed the lives of archaeology students who discover an ancient city in the wilderness unknown to civilisation. As the series progresses, the youngsters Dean and Thabo who survived the helicopter crash, endure tests and riches, made friends with the inhabitants of the city.\n\nThe series was produced by Dandelion Distribution Ltd, Wehmeyer Productions, SABC (Series 1 only) and Six Street Studios. It was filmed on location and at Johannesburg and Knysna.\n\nA compilation of episodes from the first series was later released on DVD as a film called \"The Lost City\".\n\n26 half hour episodes.\n\n\n13 half hour episodes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16159692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16159692", "title": "The Wizard of Lemuria", "text": "The Wizard of Lemuria\n\nThe Wizard of Lemuria is a fantasy novel by American writer Lin Carter, the first book of his \"Thongor series\" set on the fictional ancient lost continent of Lemuria. The author's first published novel, it was initially issued in paperback by Ace Books in 1965. The author afterwards revised and expanded the text, in which form it was reissued as Thongor and the Wizard of Lemuria, first published in paperback by Berkley Books in 1969. This retitled and revised edition became the standard edition for later reprintings. The novel was also adapted into comic form, appearing in eight issues of Marvel's \"Creatures on the Loose\".\n\nThe tale of Thongor of Valkarth, barbarian warrior of the prehistoric lost continent of Lemuria, who becomes humanity's champion in its pivotal struggle with the dragon kings who had previously dominated the world. As the serpent people make their play to recover their mastery, all that stands in their way are the courage of Thongor and his comrades and the magic of the wizard Sharajsha.\n\nThe Thongor series is Carter's premier creation in the Sword and Sorcery genre, representing a tribute to both the Conan series of Robert E. Howard and the Barsoom novels of Edgar Rice Burroughs. He pictures the lost continent of Lemuria as a prehistoric land mass existing in the South Pacific Ocean during the ice age, on which Mesozoic lifeforms persisted after the catastrophe which wiped them out in the rest of the world. An intelligent reptilian humanoid race descended from dinosaurian forebears formerly reigned supreme as the dominant life form, but was partially supplanted as such by humanity as the continent was colonized by fauna from outside Lemuria. Humans have gradually thrown off the subjection in which they were initially held by the older civilization. Culturally, Lemuria is a mixture of civilization and barbarism, but overall is precociously advanced over the outside world, boasting a magic-based technology that even includes flying machines. The Thongor books relate the struggle of the titular hero to unite the humans of Lemuria into a single empire and complete the overthrow of the \"dragon kings.\"\n"}
{"id": "28622538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28622538", "title": "Ultima (linguistics)", "text": "Ultima (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, the ultima is the last syllable of a word, the penult is the next-to-last syllable, and the antepenult is third-from-last syllable. In a word of three syllables, the names of the syllables are antepenult-penult-ultima.\n\nUltima comes from Latin \"ultima (syllaba)\" \"last (syllable)\". Penult and antepenult are abbreviations for \"paenultima\" and \"antepaenultima\". Penult has the prefix \"paene\" \"almost\", and antepenult has the prefix \"ante\" \"before\".\n\nIn Latin and Ancient Greek, only the three last syllables can be accented. In Latin, a word's stress is dependent on the weight or length of the penultimate syllable; in Greek, the place and type of accent is dependent on the length of the vowel in the ultima.\n\n"}
