{"id": "53930511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53930511", "title": "97 Bowery Building", "text": "97 Bowery Building\n\nThe 97 Bowery Building is a five-story loft building on The Bowery between Hester and Grand Streets in the Lower East Side neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. \n\nThe building was designed by Peter L.P. Tostevin in the Italianate style, and was built in 1869 for John P. Jube & Co., which occupied it until 1935. The building has a cast-iron facade from the J. B. & W. W. Cornell Iron Works, the details of which were most likely chosen from a catalog. As such, it is typical of cast-iron construction in the 1850s and 1860s. At the time it was built, the Bowery was the primary commercial street of the Lower East Side. Today, the building is a rare cast-iron survivor in the area, as well as a reminder of the importance of the Bowery as a commercial center after the Civil War.\n\n97 Bowery was designated a New York City Landmark by the New York City Landmark Preservation Commission on September 14, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "18951905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951905", "title": "Argentina", "text": "Argentina\n\nArgentina (), officially named the Argentine Republic (), is a country located mostly in the southern half of South America. Sharing the bulk of the Southern Cone with Chile to the west, the country is also bordered by Bolivia and Paraguay to the north, Brazil to the northeast, Uruguay and the South Atlantic Ocean to the east, and the Drake Passage to the south. With a mainland area of , Argentina is the eighth-largest country in the world, the fourth largest in the Americas, and the largest Spanish-speaking nation. The sovereign state is subdivided into twenty-three provinces (, singular \"provincia\") and one autonomous city (\"ciudad autónoma\"), Buenos Aires, which is the federal capital of the nation () as decided by Congress. The provinces and the capital have their own constitutions, but exist under a federal system. Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica, the Falkland Islands (), and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nThe earliest recorded human presence in the area of modern-day Argentina dates back to the Paleolithic period. The country has its roots in Spanish colonization of the region during the 16th century. Argentina rose as the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, a Spanish overseas viceroyalty founded in 1776. The declaration and fight for independence (1810–1818) was followed by an extended civil war that lasted until 1861, culminating in the country's reorganization as a federation of provinces with Buenos Aires as its capital city. The country thereafter enjoyed relative peace and stability, with several waves of European immigration radically reshaping its cultural and demographic outlook. The almost-unparalleled increase in prosperity led to Argentina becoming the seventh wealthiest developed nation in the world by the early 20th century.\n\nAfter 1930, Argentina descended into political instability and periodic economic crises that pushed it back into underdevelopment, though it nevertheless remained among the fifteen richest countries until the mid-20th century. Following the death of President Juan Perón in 1974, his wife Isabel Martínez de Perón ascended to the presidency. She was overthrown in 1976 by a U.S.-backed coup which installed a right-wing military dictatorship under Jorge Rafael Videla known as the National Reorganization Process. The military government persecuted and murdered numerous political critics, activists, and leftists in the Dirty War, a period of state terrorism that lasted until the election of Raúl Alfonsín as President in 1983. Several of the junta's leaders were later convicted of their crimes and sentenced to imprisonment. Argentina retains its historic status as a middle power in international affairs, and is a prominent regional power in the Southern Cone and Latin America. Argentina has the second largest economy in South America, the third-largest in Latin America and is a member of the G-15 and G-20 major economies. It is also a founding member of the United Nations, World Bank, World Trade Organization, Mercosur, Union of South American Nations, Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and the Organization of Ibero-American States. It is the country with the second highest Human Development Index in Latin America with a rating of \"very high\". Because of its stability, market size and growing high-tech sector, Argentina is classified as a high-income economy in the 2019 fiscal year.\n\nThe description of the country by the word \"Argentina\" has been found on a Venetian map in 1536.\n\nIn English the name \"Argentina\" comes from the Spanish language, however the naming itself is not Spanish, but Italian. \"Argentina\" (masculine \"argentino\") means in Italian \"(made) of silver, silver coloured\", probably borrowed from the Old French adjective \"argentine\" \"(made) of silver\" > \"silver coloured\" already mentioned in the 12th century. The French word \"argentine\" is the feminine form of \"argentin\" and derives from \"argent\" \"silver\" with the suffix \"-in\" (same construction as Old French \"acerin\" \"(made) of steel\", from \"acier\" \"steel\" + \"-in\" or \"sapin\" \"(made) of fir wood\", from OF \"sap\" \"fir\" + \"-in\"). The Italian naming \"Argentina\" for the country implies \"Terra Argentina\" \"land of silver\" or \"Costa Argentina\" \"coast of silver\". In Italian, the adjective or the proper noun is often used in an autonomous way as a substantive and replaces it and it is said \"l'Argentina\".\n\nThe name \"Argentina\" was probably first given by the Venetian and Genoese navigators, such as Giovanni Caboto. In Spanish and Portuguese, the words for \"silver\" are respectively \"plata\" and \"prata\" and \"(made) of silver\" is said \"plateado\" and \"prateado\". \"Argentina\" was first associated with the silver mountains legend, widespread among the first European explorers of the La Plata Basin.\n\nThe first written use of the name in Spanish can be traced to \"La Argentina\", a 1602 poem by Martín del Barco Centenera describing the region.\nAlthough \"Argentina\" was already in common usage by the 18th century, the country was formally named \"Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata\" by the Spanish Empire, and \"United Provinces of the Río de la Plata\" after independence.\n\nThe 1826 constitution included the first use of the name \"Argentine Republic\" in legal documents.\nThe name \"Argentine Confederation\" was also commonly used and was formalized in the Argentine Constitution of 1853.\nIn 1860 a presidential decree settled the country's name as \"Argentine Republic\", and that year's constitutional amendment ruled all the names since 1810 as legally valid.\n\nIn the English language the country was traditionally called \"the Argentine\", mimicking the typical Spanish usage \"la Argentina\" and perhaps resulting from a mistaken shortening of the fuller name 'Argentine Republic'. 'The Argentine' fell out of fashion during the mid-to-late 20th century, and now the country is simply referred to as \"Argentina\".\n\nIn the Spanish language \"Argentina\" is feminine (\"La [República] Argentina\"), taking the feminine article \"La\" as the initial syllable of \"Argentina\" is unstressed.\n\nThe earliest traces of human life in the area now known as Argentina are dated from the Paleolithic period, with further traces in the Mesolithic and Neolithic.\nUntil the period of European colonization, Argentina was relatively sparsely populated by a wide number of diverse cultures with different social organizations, which can be divided into three main groups. The first group are basic hunters and food gatherers without development of pottery, such as the Selknam and Yaghan in the extreme south. The second group are advanced hunters and food gatherers which include the Puelche, Querandí and Serranos in the center-east; and the Tehuelche in the south—all of them conquered by the Mapuche spreading from Chile—and the Kom and Wichi in the north. The last group are farmers with pottery, like the Charrúa, Minuane and Guaraní in the northeast, with slash and burn semisedentary existence; the advanced Diaguita sedentary trading culture in the northwest, which was conquered by the Inca Empire around 1480; the Toconoté and Hênîa and Kâmîare in the country's center, and the Huarpe in the center-west, a culture that raised llama cattle and was strongly influenced by the Incas.\n\nEuropeans first arrived in the region with the 1502 voyage of Amerigo Vespucci. The Spanish navigators Juan Díaz de Solís and Sebastian Cabot visited the territory that is now Argentina in 1516 and 1526, respectively. In 1536 Pedro de Mendoza founded the small settlement of Buenos Aires, which was abandoned in 1541.\n\nFurther colonization efforts came from Paraguay—establishing the Governorate of the Río de la Plata—Peru and Chile.\nFrancisco de Aguirre founded Santiago del Estero in 1553. Londres was founded in 1558; Mendoza, in 1561; San Juan, in 1562; San Miguel de Tucumán, in 1565. Juan de Garay founded Santa Fe in 1573 and the same year Jerónimo Luis de Cabrera set up Córdoba. Garay went further south to re-found Buenos Aires in 1580. San Luis was established in 1596.\n\nThe Spanish Empire subordinated the economic potential of the Argentine territory to the immediate wealth of the silver and gold mines in Bolivia and Peru, and as such it became part of the Viceroyalty of Peru until the creation of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata in 1776 with Buenos Aires as its capital.\n\nBuenos Aires repelled two ill-fated British invasions in 1806 and 1807. The ideas of the Age of Enlightenment and the example of the first Atlantic Revolutions generated criticism of the absolutist monarchy that ruled the country. As in the rest of Spanish America, the overthrow of Ferdinand VII during the Peninsular War created great concern.\n\nBeginning a process from which Argentina was to emerge as successor state to the Viceroyalty, the 1810 May Revolution replaced the viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros with the First Junta, a new government in Buenos Aires composed by locals.\nIn the first clashes of the Independence War the Junta crushed a royalist counter-revolution in Córdoba, but failed to overcome those of the Banda Oriental, Upper Peru and Paraguay, which later became independent states.\n\nRevolutionaries split into two antagonist groups: the Centralists and the Federalists—a move that would define Argentina's first decades of independence. The Assembly of the Year XIII appointed Gervasio Antonio de Posadas as Argentina's first Supreme Director.\n\nOn 9 July 1816, the Congress of Tucumán formalized the Declaration of Independence, which is now celebrated as Independence Day, a national holiday. One year later General Martín Miguel de Güemes stopped royalists on the north, and General José de San Martín took an army across the Andes and secured the independence of Chile; then he led the fight to the Spanish stronghold of Lima and proclaimed the independence of Peru. In 1819 Buenos Aires enacted a centralist constitution that was soon abrogated by federalists.\n\nThe 1820 Battle of Cepeda, fought between the Centralists and the Federalists, resulted in the \"end of the Supreme Director rule\". In 1826 Buenos Aires enacted another centralist constitution, with Bernardino Rivadavia being appointed as the first president of the country. However, the interior provinces soon rose against him, forced his resignation and discarded the constitution. Centralists and Federalists resumed the civil war; the latter prevailed and formed the Argentine Confederation in 1831, led by Juan Manuel de Rosas. During his regime he faced a French blockade (1838–1840), the War of the Confederation (1836–1839), and a combined Anglo-French blockade (1845–1850), but remained undefeated and prevented further loss of national territory. His trade restriction policies, however, angered the interior provinces and in 1852 Justo José de Urquiza, another powerful caudillo, beat him out of power. As new president of the Confederation, Urquiza enacted the liberal and federal 1853 Constitution. Buenos Aires seceded but was forced back into the Confederation after being defeated in the 1859 Battle of Cepeda.\n\nOverpowering Urquiza in the 1861 Battle of Pavón, Bartolomé Mitre secured Buenos Aires predominance and was elected as the first president of the reunified country. He was followed by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento and Nicolás Avellaneda; these three presidencies set up the bases of the modern Argentine State. \n\nStarting with Julio Argentino Roca in 1880, ten consecutive federal governments emphasized liberal economic policies. The massive wave of European immigration they promoted—second only to the United States'—led to a near-reinvention of Argentine society and economy that by 1908 had placed the country as the seventh wealthiest developed nation in the world.\nDriven by this immigration wave and decreasing mortality, the Argentine population grew fivefold and the economy 15-fold: from 1870 to 1910 Argentina's wheat exports went from per year, while frozen beef exports increased from per year, placing Argentina as one of the world's top five exporters. Its railway mileage rose from . Fostered by a new public, compulsory, free and secular education system, literacy skyrocketed from 22% to 65%, a level higher than most Latin American nations would reach even fifty years later. Furthermore, real GDP grew so fast that despite the huge immigration influx, per capita income between 1862 and 1920 went from 67% of developed country levels to 100%: In 1865, Argentina was already one of the top 25 nations by per capita income. By 1908, it had surpassed Denmark, Canada and The Netherlands to reach 7th place—behind Switzerland, New Zealand, Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom and Belgium. Argentina's per capita income was 70% higher than Italy's, 90% higher than Spain's, 180% higher than Japan's and 400% higher than Brazil's. Despite these unique achievements, the country was slow to meet its original goals of industrialization: after steep development of capital-intensive local industries in the 1920s, a significant part of the manufacture sector remained labor-intensive in the 1930s.\n\nBetween 1878 and 1884 the so-called Conquest of the Desert and Chaco occurred, with the purpose of giving by means of the constant confrontations between natives and Criollos in the border, and the appropriation of the indigenous territories, tripling the Argentine territory. The first conquest, consisted of a series of military incursions into the Pampa and Patagonian territories dominated by the indigenous peoples, distributing them among the members of the Rural Society, financiers of the expeditions. The conquest of Chaco lasted up to fines of the century, since its full ownership of the national economic system only took place when the mere extraction of wood and tannin was replaced by the production of cotton. The Argentine government considered indigenous people as inferior beings, without the same rights as Criollos and Europeans.\n\nIn 1912, President Roque Sáenz Peña enacted universal and secret male suffrage, which allowed Hipólito Yrigoyen, leader of the Radical Civic Union (or UCR), to win the 1916 election. He enacted social and economic reforms and extended assistance to small farms and businesses. Argentina stayed neutral during World War I. The second administration of Yrigoyen faced an economic crisis, precipitated by the Great Depression.\n\nIn 1930, Yrigoyen was ousted from power by the military led by José Félix Uriburu. Although Argentina remained among the fifteen richest countries until mid-century, this coup d'état marks the start of the steady economic and social decline that pushed the country back into underdevelopment. \nUriburu ruled for two years; then Agustín Pedro Justo was elected in a fraudulent election, and signed a controversial treaty with the United Kingdom. Argentina stayed neutral during World War II, a decision that had full British support but was rejected by the United States after the attack on Pearl Harbor. A new military coup toppled the government, and Argentina declared war on the Axis Powers a month before the end of World War II in Europe. The minister of welfare, Juan Domingo Perón, was fired and jailed because of his high popularity among workers. His liberation was forced by a massive popular demonstration, and he went on to win the 1946 election.\n\nPerón created a political movement known as Peronism. He nationalized strategic industries and services, improved wages and working conditions, paid the full external debt and achieved nearly full employment. The economy, however, began to decline in 1950 because of over-expenditure. His highly popular wife, Eva Perón, played a central political role. She pushed Congress to enact women's suffrage in 1947, and developed an unprecedented social assistance to the most vulnerable sectors of society. However, her declining health did not allow her to run for the vice-presidency in 1951, and she died of cancer the following year. Perón was reelected in 1951, surpassing even his 1946 performance. In 1955 the Navy bombed the Plaza de Mayo in an ill-fated attempt to kill the President. A few months later, during the self-called Liberating Revolution coup, he resigned and went into exile in Spain.\n\nThe new head of State, Pedro Eugenio Aramburu, proscribed Peronism and banned all of its manifestations; nevertheless, Peronists kept an organized underground. Arturo Frondizi from the UCR won the following elections. He encouraged investment to achieve energetic and industrial self-sufficiency, reversed a chronic trade deficit and lifted Peronism proscription; yet his efforts to stay on good terms with Peronists and the military earned him the rejection of both and a new coup forced him out. But Senate Chief José María Guido reacted swiftly and applied the anti-power vacuum legislation, becoming president instead; elections were repealed and Peronism proscribed again. Arturo Illia was elected in 1963 and led to an overall increase in prosperity; however his attempts to legalize Peronism resulted in his overthrow in 1966 by the Juan Carlos Onganía-led coup d'état called the Argentine Revolution, creating a new military government that sought to rule indefinitely.\n\nThe \"Dirty War\" () was part of Operation Condor which included participation of the right-wing dictatorships of the Southern Cone. The Dirty War involved state terrorism in Argentina and elsewhere in the Southern Cone against political dissidents, with military and security forces employing urban and rural violence against left-wing guerrillas, political dissidents, and anyone believed to be associated with socialism or somehow contrary to the neoliberal economic policies of the regime. Victims of the violence in Argentina alone included an estimated 15,000 to 30,000 left-wing activists and militants, including trade unionists, students, journalists, Marxists, Peronist guerrillas and alleged sympathizers. Most were victims of state terrorism. The guerrillas, whose number of victims are nearly 500-540 between military and police officials and up to 230 civilians Argentina received technical support and military aid from the United States government during the Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter, and Reagan administrations. \nDeclassified documents of the Chilean secret police cite an official estimate by the Batallón de Inteligencia 601 of 22,000 killed or \"disappeared\" between 1975 and mid-1978. During this period, in which it was later revealed 8,625 \"disappeared\" in the form of PEN (\"Poder Ejecutivo Nacional\", anglicized as \"National Executive Power\") detainees who were held in clandestine detention camps throughout Argentina before eventually being freed under diplomatic pressure. The number of people believed to have been killed or \"disappeared\", depending on the source, range from 9,089 to 30,000 in the period from 1976 to 1983, when the military was forced from power following Argentina's defeat in the Falklands War. The National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons estimates that around 13,000 were disappeared.\n\nAfter democratic government was restored, Congress passed legislation to provide compensation to victims' families. Some 11,000 Argentines have applied to the relevant authorities and received up to US $200,000 each as monetary compensation for the murder of loved ones during the military dictatorship.\n\nThe exact chronology of the repression is still debated, however, as in some senses the long political war started in 1969. Trade unionists were targeted for assassination by the Peronist and Marxist paramilitaries as early as 1969, and individual cases of state-sponsored terrorism against Peronism and the left can be traced back to the Bombing of Plaza de Mayo in 1955. The Trelew massacre of 1972, the actions of the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance since 1973, and Isabel Martínez de Perón's \"annihilation decrees\" against left-wing guerrillas during \"Operativo Independencia\" (translates to Operation of Independence) in 1975, have also been suggested as dates for the beginning of the Dirty War.\n\nOnganía shut down Congress, banned all political parties and dismantled student and worker unions. In 1969, popular discontent led to two massive protests: the \"Cordobazo\" and the \"Rosariazo\". The terrorist guerrilla organization Montoneros kidnapped and executed Aramburu. The newly chosen head of government, Alejandro Agustín Lanusse, seeking to ease the growing political pressure, let Héctor José Cámpora be the Peronist candidate instead of Perón. Cámpora won the March 1973 election, issued a pardon for condemned guerrilla members and then secured Perón's return from his exile in Spain.\n\nOn the day Perón returned to Argentina, the clash between Peronist internal factions—right-wing union leaders and left-wing youth from Montoneros—resulted in the Ezeiza Massacre. Cámpora resigned, overwhelmed by political violence, and Perón won the September 1973 election with his third wife Isabel as vice-president. He expelled Montoneros from the party and they became once again a clandestine organization. José López Rega organized the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance (AAA) to fight against them and the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP).\nPerón died in July 1974 and was succeeded by his wife, who signed a secret decree empowering the military and the police to \"annihilate\" the left-wing subversion, stopping ERP's attempt to start a rural insurgence in Tucumán province. Isabel Perón was ousted one year later by a junta of the three armed forces, led by army general Jorge Rafael Videla. They initiated the National Reorganization Process, often shortened to \"Proceso\".\nThe \"Proceso\" shut down Congress, removed the judges of the Supreme Court, banned political parties and unions, and resorted to the forced disappearance of suspected guerrilla members and of anyone believed to be associated with the left-wing. By the end of 1976 Montoneros had lost near 2,000 members; by 1977, the ERP was completely defeated. A severely weakened Montoneros launched a counterattack in 1979, which was quickly annihilated, ending the guerrilla threat. Nevertheless, the junta stayed in power.\n\nIn 1982, the then head of state, General Leopoldo Galtieri, authorised the invasion of the British territories of South Georgia and, on 2 April, of the Falkland Islands. This led to the Falklands War with the United Kingdom and an Argentinian surrender on 14 June. Rioting on the streets of Buenos Aires followed the defeat and the military leadership responsible for the humiliation stood down. Reynaldo Bignone replaced Galtieri and began to organize the transition to democratic rule.\n\nRaúl Alfonsín won the 1983 elections campaigning for the prosecution of those responsible for human rights violations during the \"Proceso\": the Trial of the Juntas and other martial courts sentenced all the coup's leaders but, under military pressure, he also enacted the Full Stop and Due Obedience laws, which halted prosecutions further down the chain of command. The worsening economic crisis and hyperinflation reduced his popular support and the Peronist Carlos Menem won the 1989 election. Soon after, riots forced Alfonsín to an early resignation.\n\nMenem embraced neo-liberal policies: a fixed exchange rate, business deregulation, privatizations and dismantling of protectionist barriers normalized the economy for a while. He pardoned the officers who had been sentenced during Alfonsín's government. The 1994 Constitutional Amendment allowed Menem to be elected for a second term. The economy began to decline in 1995, with increasing unemployment and recession; led by Fernando de la Rúa, the UCR returned to the presidency in the 1999 elections.\nDe la Rúa kept Menem's economic plan despite the worsening crisis, which led to growing social discontent. A massive capital flight was responded to with a freezing of bank accounts, generating further turmoil. The December 2001 riots forced him to resign. Congress appointed Eduardo Duhalde as acting president, who abrogated the fixed exchange rate established by Menem, causing many Argentinians to lose a significant portion of their savings. By the late 2002 the economic crisis began to recede, but the assassination of two \"piqueteros\" by the police caused political commotion, prompting Duhalde to move elections forward. Néstor Kirchner was elected as the new president.\n\nBoosting the neo-Keynesian economic policies laid by Duhalde, Kirchner ended the economic crisis attaining significant fiscal and trade surpluses, and steep GDP growth. Under his administration Argentina restructured its defaulted debt with an unprecedented discount of about 70% on most bonds, paid off debts with the International Monetary Fund, purged the military of officers with doubtful human rights records, nullified and voided the Full Stop and Due Obedience laws, ruled them as unconstitutional, and resumed legal prosecution of the Juntas' crimes. He did not run for reelection, promoting instead the candidacy of his wife, senator Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who was elected in 2007 and reelected in 2011. Fernández de Kirchner's administration oversaw a positive foreign policy with good relations with other South American nations; however, relations between the United States and United Kingdom remained heavily strained. Jorge Rafael Videla, who had led the repression during the Dirty War, was sentenced to life in a civilian prison in 2010 under de Kirchner's administration; he later died in prison in 2013.\n\nOn 22 November 2015, after a tie in the first round of presidential elections on 25 October, Mauricio Macri won the first ballotage in Argentina's history, beating Front for Victory candidate Daniel Scioli and becoming president-elect. Macri is the first democratically elected non-radical or peronist president since 1916. He took office on 10 December 2015. In April 2016, the Macri Government introduced austerity measures intended to tackle inflation and public deficits.\n\nWith a mainland surface area of , Argentina is located in southern South America, sharing land borders with Chile across the Andes to the west; Bolivia and Paraguay to the north; Brazil to the northeast, Uruguay and the South Atlantic Ocean to the east; and the Drake Passage to the south; for an overall land border length of . Its coastal border over the Río de la Plata and South Atlantic Ocean is long.\n\nArgentina's highest point is Aconcagua in the Mendoza province ( above sea level), also the highest point in the Southern and Western Hemispheres.\nThe lowest point is Laguna del Carbón in the \"San Julián Great Depression\" Santa Cruz province ( below sea level, also the lowest point in the Southern and Western Hemispheres, and the seventh lowest point on Earth)\n\nThe northernmost point is at the confluence of the Grande de San Juan and Río Mojinete rivers in Jujuy province; the southernmost is Cape San Pío in Tierra del Fuego province; the easternmost is northeast of Bernardo de Irigoyen, Misiones and the westernmost is within Los Glaciares National Park in Santa Cruz province.\nThe maximum north–south distance is , while the maximum east–west one is .\n\nSome of the major rivers are the Paraná, Uruguay—which join to form the Río de la Plata, Paraguay, Salado, Negro, Santa Cruz, Pilcomayo, Bermejo and Colorado. These rivers are discharged into the Argentine Sea, the shallow area of the Atlantic Ocean over the Argentine Shelf, an unusually wide continental platform. Its waters are influenced by two major ocean currents: the warm Brazil Current and the cold Falklands Current.\n\nArgentina is a megadiverse country hosting one of the greatest ecosystem varieties in the world: 15 continental zones, 3 oceanic zones, and the Antarctic region are all represented in its territory.\nThis huge ecosystem variety has led to a biological diversity that is among the world's largest:\n\nThe original pampa had virtually no trees; some imported species like the American sycamore or eucalyptus are present along roads or in towns and country estates (\"estancias\"). The only tree-like plant native to the pampa is the evergreen Ombú. The surface soils of the pampa are a deep black color, primarily mollisols, known commonly as \"humus\". This makes the region one of the most agriculturally productive on Earth; however, this is also responsible for decimating much of the original ecosystem, to make way for commercial agriculture. The western pampas receive less rainfall, this \"dry pampa\" is a plain of short grasses or steppe.\n\nThe National Parks of Argentina make up a network of 35 national parks in Argentina. The parks cover a very varied set of terrains and biotopes, from Baritú National Park on the northern border with Bolivia to Tierra del Fuego National Park in the far south of the continent. The Administración de Parques Nacionales (National Parks Administration) is the agency that preserves and manages these national parks along with Natural monuments and National Reserves within the country.\n\nIn general, Argentina has four main climate types: warm, moderate, arid, and cold, all determined by the expanse across latitude, range in altitude, and relief features. Although the most populated areas are generally temperate, Argentina has an exceptional amount of climate diversity, ranging from subtropical in the north to polar in the far south. Consequently, there is a wide variety of biomes in the country, including subtropical rain forests, semi-arid and arid regions, temperate plains in the Pampas, and cold subantarctic in the south. The average annual precipitation ranges from in the driest parts of Patagonia to over in the westernmost parts of Patagonia and the northeastern parts of the country. Mean annual temperatures range from in the far south to in the north.\n\nMajor wind currents include the cool Pampero Winds blowing on the flat plains of Patagonia and the Pampas; following the cold front, warm currents blow from the north in middle and late winter, creating mild conditions.\nThe Sudestada usually moderates cold temperatures but brings very heavy rains, rough seas and coastal flooding. It is most common in late autumn and winter along the central coast and in the Río de la Plata estuary.\nThe Zonda, a hot dry wind, affects Cuyo and the central Pampas. Squeezed of all moisture during the descent from the Andes, Zonda winds can blow for hours with gusts up to , fueling wildfires and causing damage; between June and November, when the Zonda blows, snowstorms and blizzard (\"viento blanco\") conditions usually affect higher elevations.\n\nArgentina is a federal constitutional republic and representative democracy. The government is regulated by a system of checks and balances defined by the Constitution of Argentina, the country's supreme legal document. The seat of government is the city of Buenos Aires, as designated by Congress. Suffrage is universal, equal, secret and mandatory.\n\nThe federal government is composed of three branches:\n\nThe Legislative branch consists of the bicameral Congress, made up of the Senate and Deputy chambers, which makes federal law, declares war, approves treaties and has the power of the purse and of impeachment, by which it can remove sitting members of the government. The Chamber of Deputies represents the people and has 257 voting members elected to a four-year term. Seats are apportioned among the provinces by population every tenth year. ten provinces have just five deputies while the Buenos Aires Province, being the most populous one, has 70. The Chamber of Senators represents the provinces, has 72 members elected at-large to six-year terms, with each province having three seats; one third of Senate seats are up for election every other year. At least one-third of the candidates presented by the parties must be women.\nIn the Executive branch, the President is the commander-in-chief of the military, can veto legislative bills before they become law—subject to Congressional override—and appoints the members of the Cabinet and other officers, who administer and enforce federal laws and policies. The President is elected directly by the vote of the people, serves a four-year term and may be elected to office no more than twice in a row.\n\nThe Judicial branch includes the Supreme Court and lower federal courts interpret laws and overturn those they find unconstitutional. The Judicial is independent of the Executive and the Legislative. The Supreme Court has seven members appointed by the President—subject to Senate approval—who serve for life. The lower courts' judges are proposed by the Council of Magistrates (a secretariat composed of representatives of judges, lawyers, researchers, the Executive and the Legislative), and appointed by the President on Senate approval.\n\nArgentina is a federation of twenty-three provinces and one autonomous city, Buenos Aires. Provinces are divided for administration purposes into departments and municipalities, except for Buenos Aires Province, which is divided into partidos. The City of Buenos Aires is divided into communes.\n\nProvinces hold all the power that they chose not to delegate to the federal government; they must be representative republics and must not contradict the Constitution. Beyond this they are fully autonomous: they enact their own constitutions, freely organize their local governments, and own and manage their natural and financial resources. Some provinces have bicameral legislatures, while others have unicameral ones.\n\nDuring the War of Independence the main cities and their surrounding countrysides became provinces though the intervention of their cabildos. The Anarchy of the Year XX completed this process, shaping the original thirteen provinces. Jujuy seceded from Salta in 1834, and the thirteen provinces became fourteen.\nAfter seceding for a decade, Buenos Aires accepted the 1853 Constitution of Argentina in 1861, and was made a federal territory in 1880.\n\nAn 1862 law designated as national territories those under federal control but outside the frontiers of the provinces. In 1884 they served as bases for the establishment of the governorates of Misiones, Formosa, Chaco, La Pampa, Neuquén, Río Negro, Chubut, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego.\nThe agreement about a frontier dispute with Chile in 1900 created the National Territory of Los Andes; its lands were incorporated into Jujuy, Salta and Catamarca in 1943. La Pampa and Chaco became provinces in 1951. Misiones did so in 1953, and Formosa, Neuquén, Río Negro, Chubut and Santa Cruz, in 1955. The last national territory, Tierra del Fuego, became the Tierra del Fuego, Antártida e Islas del Atlántico Sur Province in 1990.\n\nForeign policy is officially handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship, which answers to the President.\n\nAn historical and current middle power, Argentina bases its foreign policies on the guiding principles of non-intervention, human rights, self-determination, international cooperation, disarmament and peaceful settlement of conflicts.\nThe country is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies of the world, and a founding member of the UN, WBG, WTO and OAS.\nIn 2012 Argentina was elected again to a two-year non-permanent position on the United Nations Security Council and is participating in major peacekeeping operations in Haiti, Cyprus, Western Sahara and the Middle East.\n\nA prominent Latin American and Southern Cone regional power, Argentina co-founded OEI, CELAC and UNASUR, of which the former President Néstor Kirchner was first Secretary General.\nIt is also a founding member of the Mercosur block, having Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela as partners. Since 2002 the country has emphasized its key role in Latin American integration, and the block—which has some supranational legislative functions—is its first international priority.\n\nArgentina claims in Antarctica, where it has the world's oldest continuous state presence, since 1904. This overlaps claims by Chile and the United Kingdom, though all such claims fall under the provisions of the 1961 Antarctic Treaty, of which Argentina is a founding signatory and permanent consulting member, with the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat being based in Buenos Aires.\n\nArgentina disputes sovereignty over the Falkland Islands (), and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, which are administered by the United Kingdom as Overseas Territories.\n\nThe President holds the title of commander-in-chief of the Argentine Armed Forces, as part of a legal framework that imposes a strict separation between national defense and internal security systems:\n\nThe National Defense System, an exclusive responsibility of the federal government, coordinated by the Ministry of Defense, and comprising the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. Ruled and monitored by Congress through the Houses' Defense Committees, it is organized on the essential principle of legitimate self-defense: the repelling of any external military aggression in order to guarantee freedom of the people, national sovereignty, and territorial integrity. Its secondary missions include committing to multinational operations within the framework of the United Nations, participating in internal support missions, assisting friendly countries, and establishing a sub-regional defense system.\nMilitary service is voluntary, with enlistment age between 18 and 24 years old and no conscription. Argentina's defense has historically been one of the best equipped in the region, even managing its own weapon research facilities, shipyards, ordnance, tank and plane factories. However, real military expenditures declined steadily after 1981 and the defense budget in 2011 was about 0.74% of GDP, a historical minimum, below the Latin American average.\n\nThe Interior Security System, jointly administered by the federal and subscribing provincial governments. At the federal level it is coordinated by the Interior, Security and Justice ministries, and monitored by Congress. It is enforced by the Federal Police; the Prefecture, which fulfills coast guard duties; the Gendarmerie, which serves border guard tasks; and the Airport Security Police. At the provincial level it is coordinated by the respective internal security ministries and enforced by local police agencies.\n\nArgentina was the only South American country to send warships and cargo planes in 1991 to the Gulf War under UN mandate and has remained involved in peacekeeping efforts in multiple locations like UNPROFOR in Croatia/Bosnia, Gulf of Fonseca, UNFICYP in Cyprus (where among Army and Marines troops the Air Force provided the UN Air contingent since 1994) and MINUSTAH in Haiti. Argentina is the only Latin American country to maintain troops in Kosovo during SFOR (and later EUFOR) operations where combat engineers of the Argentine Armed Forces are embedded in an Italian brigade.\n\nIn 2007, an Argentine contingent including helicopters, boats and water purification plants was sent to help Bolivia against their worst floods in decades. In 2010 the Armed Forces were also involved in Haiti and Chile humanitarian responses after their respective earthquakes.\n\nBenefiting from rich natural resources, a highly literate population, a diversified industrial base, and an export-oriented agricultural sector, the economy of Argentina is Latin America's third-largest, and the second largest in South America. It has a \"very high\" rating on the Human Development Index and a relatively high GDP per capita, with a considerable internal market size and a growing share of the high-tech sector.\nA middle emerging economy and one of the world's top developing nations, Argentina is a member of the G-20 major economies. Historically, however, its economic performance has been very uneven, with high economic growth alternating with severe recessions, income maldistribution and—in the recent decades—increasing poverty. Early in the 20th century Argentina achieved development, and became the world's seventh richest country. Although managing to keep a place among the top fifteen economies until mid-century, it suffered a long and steady decline, but it is still a high income country.\n\nHigh inflation—a weakness of the Argentine economy for decades—has become a trouble once again, with an annual rate of 24.8% in 2017. Income distribution, having improved since 2002, is classified as \"medium\", still considerably unequal.\n\nArgentina ranks 85th out of 180 countries in the Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index, an improvement of 22 positions over its 2014 rankings. Argentina settled its long-standing debt default crisis in 2016 with the so-called Vulture funds after the election of Mauricio Macri, allowing Argentina to enter capital markets for the first time in a decade.\n\n manufacturing accounted for 20.3% of GDP—the largest goods-producing sector in the nation's economy. Well-integrated into Argentine agriculture, half of the industrial exports have rural origin.\n\nWith a 6.5% production growth rate , the diversified manufacturing sector rests on a steadily growing network of industrial parks (314 )\n\nCórdoba is Argentina's major industrial center, hosting metalworking, motor vehicle and auto parts manufactures. Next in importance are the Greater Buenos Aires area (food processing, metallurgy, motor vehicles and auto parts, chemicals and petrochemicals, consumer durables, textiles and printing); Rosario (food processing, metallurgy, farm machinery, oil refining, chemicals, and tanning); San Miguel de Tucumán (sugar refining); San Lorenzo (chemicals and pharmaceuticals); San Nicolás de los Arroyos (steel milling and metallurgy); and Ushuaia and Bahía Blanca (oil refining).\nOther manufacturing enterprises are located in the provinces of Santa Fe (zinc and copper smelting, and flour milling); Mendoza and Neuquén (wineries and fruit processing); Chaco (textiles and sawmills); and Santa Cruz, Salta and Chubut (oil refining).\n\nThe electric output of Argentina totaled over , of which about 37% was consumed by industrial activities.\n\nArgentina has the largest railway system in Latin America, with of operating lines , out of a full network of almost . This system links all 23 provinces plus Buenos Aires City, and connects with all neighboring countries. There are four incompatible gauges in use; this forces virtually all interregional freight traffic to pass through Buenos Aires. The system has been in decline since the 1940s: regularly running up large budgetary deficits, by 1991 it was transporting 1,400 times less goods than it did in 1973. However, in recent years the system has experienced a greater degree of investment from the state, in both commuter rail lines and long distance lines, renewing rolling stock and infrastructure. In April 2015, by overwhelming majority the Argentine Senate passed a law which re-created Ferrocarriles Argentinos (2015), effectively re-nationalising the country's railways, a move which saw support from all major political parties on both sides of the political spectrum.\n\nNevertheless, this road infrastructure is still inadequate and cannot handle the sharply growing demand caused by deterioration of the railway system.\n\nSome of the largest sea ports are La Plata–Ensenada, Bahía Blanca, Mar del Plata, Quequén–Necochea, Comodoro Rivadavia, Puerto Deseado, Puerto Madryn, Ushuaia and San Antonio Oeste.\nBuenos Aires has historically been the most important port; however since the 1990s the Up-River port region has become dominant: stretching along of the Paraná river shore in Santa Fe province, it includes 17 ports and accounted for 50% of all exports.\n\nPrint media industry is highly developed in Argentina, with more than two hundred newspapers. The major national ones include \"Clarín\" (centrist, Latin America's best-seller and the second most widely circulated in the Spanish-speaking world), \"La Nación\" (center-right, published since 1870), \"Página/12\" (leftist, founded in 1987), the Buenos Aires Herald (Latin America's most prestigious English language daily, liberal, dating back to 1876), \"La Voz del Interior\" (center, founded in 1904), and the \"Argentinisches Tageblatt\" (German weekly, liberal, published since 1878)\n\nArgentina began the world's first regular radio broadcasting on 27 August 1920, when Richard Wagner's \"Parsifal\" was aired by a team of medical students led by Enrique Telémaco Susini in Buenos Aires' Teatro Coliseo. there were 260 AM and 1150 FM registered radio stations in the country.\n\nThe Argentine television industry is large, diverse and popular across Latin America, with many productions and TV formats having been exported abroad. Since 1999 Argentines enjoy the highest availability of cable and satellite television in Latin America, totaling 87.4% of the country's households, a rate similar to those in the United States, Canada and Europe.\n\nArgentinians have received three Nobel Prizes in the Sciences. Bernardo Houssay, the first Latin American recipient, discovered the role of pituitary hormones in regulating glucose in animals, and shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1947. Luis Leloir discovered how organisms store energy converting glucose into glycogen and the compounds which are fundamental in metabolizing carbohydrates, receiving the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1970. César Milstein did extensive research in antibodies, sharing the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1984. Argentine research has led to treatments for heart diseases and several forms of cancer. Domingo Liotta designed and developed the first artificial heart that was successfully implanted in a human being in 1969. René Favaloro developed the techniques and performed the world's first coronary bypass surgery.\n\nArgentina's nuclear programme has been highly successful. In 1957 Argentina was the first country in Latin America to design and build a research reactor with homegrown technology, the RA-1 Enrico Fermi. This reliance in the development of own nuclear related technologies, instead of simply buying them abroad, was a constant of Argentina's nuclear programme conducted by the civilian National Atomic Energy Commission (CNEA). Nuclear facilities with Argentine technology have been built in Peru, Algeria, Australia and Egypt. In 1983, the country admitted having the capability of producing weapon-grade uranium, a major step needed to assemble nuclear weapons; since then, however, Argentina has pledged to use nuclear power only for peaceful purposes. As a member of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Argentina has been a strong voice in support of nuclear non-proliferation efforts and is highly committed to global nuclear security. In 1974 it was the first country in Latin America to put in-line a commercial nuclear power plant, Atucha I. Although the Argentine built parts for that station amounted to 10% of the total, the nuclear fuel it uses are since entirely built in the country. Later nuclear power stations employed a higher percentage of Argentine built components; Embalse, finished in 1983, a 30% and the 2011 Atucha II reactor a 40%. \n\nDespite its modest budget and numerous setbacks, academics and the sciences in Argentina have enjoyed an international respect since the turn of the 1900s, when Dr. Luis Agote devised the first safe and effective means of blood transfusion as well as René Favaloro, who was a pioneer in the improvement of the coronary artery bypass surgery. Argentine scientists are still on the cutting edge in fields such as nanotechnology, physics, computer sciences, molecular biology, oncology, ecology and cardiology. Juan Maldacena, an Argentine-American scientist, is a leading figure in string theory.\n\nSpace research has also become increasingly active in Argentina. Argentine built satellites include LUSAT-1 (1990), Víctor-1 (1996), PEHUENSAT-1 (2007), and those developed by CONAE, the Argentine space agency, of the SAC series. Argentina has its own satellite programme, nuclear power station designs (4th generation) and public nuclear energy company INVAP, which provides several countries with nuclear reactors. Established in 1991, the CONAE has since launched two satellites successfully and, in June 2009, secured an agreement with the European Space Agency for the installation of a 35-m diameter antenna and other mission support facilities at the Pierre Auger Observatory, the world's foremost cosmic ray observatory. The facility will contribute to numerous ESA space probes, as well as CONAE's own, domestic research projects. Chosen from 20 potential sites and one of only three such ESA installations in the world, the new antenna will create a triangulation which will allow the ESA to ensure mission coverage around the clock\n\nTourism in Argentina is characterized by its cultural offerings and its ample and varied natural assets. The country had 5.57 million visitors in 2013, ranking in terms of the international tourist arrivals as the top destination in South America, and second in Latin America after Mexico. Revenues from international tourists reached billion in 2013, down from billion in 2012. The country's capital city, Buenos Aires, is the most visited city in South America. There are 30 National Parks of Argentina including many World Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the , Argentina had a population of 36,260,130, and preliminary results from the 2010 census were of 40,091,359 inhabitants. Argentina ranks third in South America in total population and 33rd globally. Population density is of 15 persons per square kilometer of land area, well below the world average of 50 persons. The population growth rate in 2010 was an estimated 1.03% annually, with a birth rate of 17.7 live births per 1,000 inhabitants and a mortality rate of 7.4 deaths per 1,000 inhabitants. The net migration rate has ranged from zero to four immigrants per 1,000 inhabitants per year.\n\nThe proportion of people under 15 is 25.6%, a little below the world average of 28%, and the proportion of people 65 and older is relatively high at 10.8%. In Latin America this is second only to Uruguay and well above the world average, which is currently 7%. Argentina has one of Latin America's lowest population growth rates, recently about 1% a year, as well as a comparatively low infant mortality rate. Its birth rate of 2.3 children per woman is still nearly twice as high as that in Spain or Italy, compared here as they have similar religious practices and proportions. The median age is approximately 30 years and life expectancy at birth is 77.14 years.\n\nArgentina became in 2010 the first country in Latin America and the second in the Americas to allow same-sex marriage nationwide. It was the tenth country to allow same-sex marriage.\n\n As with other areas of new settlement such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Uruguay, Argentina is considered a country of immigrants. Argentines usually refer to the country as a \"crisol de razas\" (crucible of races, or melting pot).\n\nBetween 1857 and 1950 Argentina was the country with the second biggest immigration wave in the world, with 6.6 million, second only to the United States in the numbers of immigrants received (27 million) and ahead of such other areas of new settlement like Canada, Brazil and Australia.\n\nStrikingly, at those times, the national population doubled every two decades. This belief is endured in the popular saying \"los argentinos descienden de los barcos\" (Argentines descend from the ships). Therefore, most Argentines are descended from the 19th- and 20th-century immigrants of the great immigration wave to Argentina (1850–1955), with a great majority of these immigrants coming from diverse European countries. The majority of these European immigrants came from Italy and Spain. The majority of Argentines descend from multiple European ethnic groups, primarily of Italian and Spanish descent (over 25 million individuals in Argentina, almost 60% of the population have some partial Italian origins),\n\nArgentina is home to a significant population of Arab and partial Arab background, mostly of Syrian and Lebanese origin (in Argentina they are considered among the white people, just like in the United States Census). The majority of Arab Argentines are Christians who belong to the Maronite Church, Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Rite Catholic Churches. A scant number are Muslims of Middle Eastern origins. The Asian population in the country numbers at around 180,000 individuals, most of whom are of Chinese and Korean descent, although an older Japanese community that traces back to the early 20th century still exists.\n\nA study conducted on 218 individuals in 2010 by the Argentine geneticist Daniel Corach, has established that the genetic map of Argentina is composed by 79% from different European ethnicities (mainly Spanish and Italian ethnicities), 18% of different indigenous ethnicities, and 4.3% of African ethnic groups, in which 63.6% of the tested group had at least one ancestor who was Indigenous.\n\nFrom the 1970s, immigration has mostly been coming from Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru, with smaller numbers from Dominican Republic, Ecuador and Romania. The Argentine government estimates that 750,000 inhabitants lack official documents and has launched a program to encourage illegal immigrants to declare their status in return for two-year residence visas—so far over 670,000 applications have been processed under the program.\n\n\nThe \"de facto\" official language is Spanish, spoken by almost all Argentines.\nThe country is the largest Spanish-speaking society that universally employs \"voseo\", the use of the pronoun \"vos\" instead of \"tú\" (\"you\"), which imposes the use of alternative verb forms as well.\nDue to the extensive Argentine geography, Spanish has a strong variation among regions, although the prevalent dialect is \"Rioplatense\", primarily spoken in the La Plata Basin and accented similarly to the Neapolitan language. Italian and other European immigrants influenced \"Lunfardo\"—the regional slang—permeating the vernacular vocabulary of other Latin American countries as well.\n\nThere are several second-languages in widespread use among the Argentine population:\n\nThe Constitution guarantees freedom of religion. Although it enforces neither an official nor a state faith, it gives Roman Catholicism a preferential status.\n\nAccording to a CONICET poll in 2008, at the time of polling Argentines were 76.5% Catholic, 11.3% Agnostics and Atheists, 9% Evangelical Protestants, 1.2% Jehovah's Witnesses, 0.9% Mormons; while 1.2% followed other religions, including Islam, Judaism and Buddhism. These figures appear to have changed quite significantly in recent years. Data recorded in 2017 indicated that Catholics made up 66% of the population, indicating a drop of 10.5% in nine years, and the non-religious in the country standing at 21% of the population, indicating an almost doubling over nine years.\n\nThe country is home to both the largest Muslim and largest Jewish communities in Latin America, the latter being the 7th most populous in the world. Argentina is a member of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance.\n\nArgentines show high individualization and de-institutionalization of religious beliefs; 23.8% of them claim to always attend religious services; 49.1%, to seldom do and 26.8%, to never do.\n\nOn 13 March 2013, Argentine Jorge Mario Bergoglio, the Cardinal Archbishop of Buenos Aires, was elected Bishop of Rome and Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church. He took the name \"Francis\", and he became the first Pope from either the Americas or from the Southern Hemisphere; he is the first Pope born outside of Europe since the election of Pope Gregory III (who was Syrian) in 741.\n\nArgentina is highly urbanized, with 92% of its population living in cities: the ten largest metropolitan areas account for half of the population.\nAbout 3 million people live in the city of Buenos Aires, and including the Greater Buenos Aires metropolitan area it totals around 13 million, making it one of the largest urban areas in the world.\n\nThe metropolitan areas of Córdoba and Rosario have around 1.3 million inhabitants each. Mendoza, San Miguel de Tucumán, La Plata, Mar del Plata, Salta and Santa Fe have at least half a million people each.\n\nThe population is unequally distributed: about 60% live in the Pampas region (21% of the total area), including 15 million people in Buenos Aires province. The provinces of Córdoba and Santa Fe, and the city of Buenos Aires have 3 million each. Seven other provinces have over one million people each: Mendoza, Tucumán, Entre Ríos, Salta, Chaco, Corrientes and Misiones. With , Tucumán is the only Argentine province more densely populated than the world average; by contrast, the southern province of Santa Cruz has around .\nThe Argentine education system consists of four levels:\n\nThe Argentine state guarantees universal, secular and free-of-charge public education for all levels. Responsibility for educational supervision is organized at the federal and individual provincial states. In the last decades the role of the private sector has grown across all educational stages.\n\nHealth care is provided through a combination of employer and labor union-sponsored plans (\"Obras Sociales\"), government insurance plans, public hospitals and clinics and through private health insurance plans. Health care cooperatives number over 300 (of which 200 are related to labor unions) and provide health care for half the population; the national INSSJP (popularly known as PAMI) covers nearly all of the five million senior citizens.\n\nThere are more than 153,000 hospital beds, 121,000 physicians and 37,000 dentists (ratios comparable to developed nations). The relatively high access to medical care has historically resulted in mortality patterns and trends similar to developed nations': from 1953 to 2005, deaths from cardiovascular disease increased from 20% to 23% of the total, those from tumors from 14% to 20%, respiratory problems from 7% to 14%, digestive maladies (non-infectious) from 7% to 11%, strokes a steady 7%, injuries, 6%, and infectious diseases, 4%. Causes related to senility led to many of the rest. Infant deaths have fallen from 19% of all deaths in 1953 to 3% in 2005.\n\nThe availability of health care has also reduced infant mortality from 70 per 1000 live births in 1948 to 12.1 in 2009 and raised life expectancy at birth from 60 years to 76. Though these figures compare favorably with global averages, they fall short of levels in developed nations and in 2006, Argentina ranked fourth in Latin America.\n\nArgentina is a multicultural country with significant European influences. Modern Argentine culture has been largely influenced by Italian, Spanish and other European immigration from France, United Kingdom, and Germany among others. Its cities are largely characterized by both the prevalence of people of European descent, and of conscious imitation of American and European styles in fashion, architecture and design. Museums, cinemas, and galleries are abundant in all the large urban centers, as well as traditional establishments such as literary bars, or bars offering live music of a variety of genres although there are lesser elements of Amerindian and African influences, particularly in the fields of music and art. The other big influence is the gauchos and their traditional country lifestyle of self-reliance. Finally, indigenous American traditions have been absorbed into the general cultural milieu.\nArgentine writer Ernesto Sabato has reflected on the nature of the culture of Argentina as follows:\nAlthough Argentina's rich literary history began around 1550, it reached full independence with Esteban Echeverría's \"El Matadero\", a romantic landmark that played a significant role in the development of 19th century's Argentine narrative, split by the ideological divide between the popular, federalist epic of José Hernández' \"Martín Fierro\" and the elitist and cultured discourse of Sarmiento's masterpiece, \"Facundo\".\n\nThe Modernist movement advanced into the 20th century including exponents such as Leopoldo Lugones and poet Alfonsina Storni; it was followed by Vanguardism, with Ricardo Güiraldes's \"Don Segundo Sombra\" as an important reference.\n\nJorge Luis Borges, Argentina's most acclaimed writer and one of the foremost figures in the history of literature, found new ways of looking at the modern world in metaphor and philosophical debate and his influence has extended to authors all over the globe. Short stories such as \"Ficciones\" and \"The Aleph\" are among his most famous works. He was a friend and collaborator of Adolfo Bioy Casares, who wrote one of the most praised science fiction novels, \"The Invention of Morel\".\nJulio Cortázar, one of the leading members of the Latin American Boom and a major name in 20th century literature, influenced an entire generation of writers in the Americas and Europe.\n\nOther highly regarded Argentine writers, poets and essayists include Estanislao del Campo, Eugenio Cambaceres, Pedro Bonifacio Palacios, Hugo Wast, Benito Lynch, Enrique Banchs, Oliverio Girondo, Ezequiel Martínez Estrada, Victoria Ocampo, Leopoldo Marechal, Silvina Ocampo, Roberto Arlt, Eduardo Mallea, Manuel Mujica Láinez, Ernesto Sábato, Silvina Bullrich, Rodolfo Walsh, María Elena Walsh, Tomás Eloy Martínez, Manuel Puig, Alejandra Pizarnik, and Osvaldo Soriano.\n\nTango, a \"Rioplatense\" musical genre with European and African influences, is one of Argentina's international cultural symbols.\nThe golden age of tango (1930 to mid-1950s) mirrored that of jazz and swing in the United States, featuring large orchestras like those of Osvaldo Pugliese, Aníbal Troilo, Francisco Canaro, Julio de Caro and Juan d'Arienzo.\nAfter 1955, virtuoso Astor Piazzolla popularized \"Nuevo tango\", a subtler and more intellectual trend for the genre.\nTango enjoys worldwide popularity nowadays with groups like Gotan Project, Bajofondo and Tanghetto.\n\nArgentina developed strong classical music and dance scenes that gave rise to renowned artists such as Alberto Ginastera, composer; Alberto Lysy, violinist; Martha Argerich and Eduardo Delgado, pianists; Daniel Barenboim, pianist and symphonic orchestra director; José Cura and Marcelo Álvarez, tenors; and to ballet dancers Jorge Donn, José Neglia, Norma Fontenla, \"Maximiliano Guerra\", Paloma Herrera, Marianela Núñez, Iñaki Urlezaga and Julio Bocca.\nA national Argentine folk style emerged in the 1930s from dozens of regional musical genres and went to influence the entirety of Latin American music. Some of its interpreters, like Atahualpa Yupanqui and Mercedes Sosa, achieved worldwide acclaim.\n\nThe romantic ballad genre included singers of international fame such as Sandro de América.\n\nArgentine rock developed as a distinct musical style in the mid-1960s, when Buenos Aires and Rosario became cradles of aspiring musicians.\nFounding bands like Los Gatos, Sui Generis, Almendra and Manal were followed by Seru Giran, Los Abuelos de la Nada, Soda Stereo and Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota, with prominent artists including Gustavo Cerati, Litto Nebbia, Andrés Calamaro, Luis Alberto Spinetta, Charly García, Fito Páez and León Gieco.\n\nTenor saxophonist Leandro \"Gato\" Barbieri and composer and big band conductor Lalo Schifrin are among the most internationally successful Argentine jazz musicians.\n\nAnother popular musical genre at present is Cumbia villera is a subgenre of cumbia music originated in the slums of Argentina and popularized all over Latin America and the Latin communities abroad.\n\nBuenos Aires is one of the great theatre capitals of the world, with a scene of international caliber centered on Corrientes Avenue, \"the street that never sleeps\", sometimes referred to as an intellectual Broadway in Buenos Aires. Teatro Colón is a global landmark for opera and classical performances; its acoustics are considered among the world's top five. Other important theatrical venues include Teatro General San Martín, Cervantes, both in Buenos Aires City; Argentino in La Plata, El Círculo in Rosario, Independencia in Mendoza, and Libertador in Córdoba.\nGriselda Gambaro, Copi, Roberto Cossa, Marco Denevi, Carlos Gorostiza, and Alberto Vaccarezza are a few of the most prominent Argentine playwrights.\n\nArgentine theatre traces its origins to Viceroy Juan José de Vértiz y Salcedo's creation of the colony's first theatre, \"La Ranchería\", in 1783. In this stage, in 1786, a tragedy entitled \"Siripo\" had its premiere. \"Siripo\" is now a lost work (only the second act is conserved), and can be considered the first Argentine stage play, because it was written by Buenos Aires poet Manuel José de Lavardén, it was premiered in Buenos Aires, and its plot was inspired by an historical episode of the early colonization of the Río de la Plata Basin: the destruction of Sancti Spiritu colony by aboriginals in 1529. \"La Ranchería\" theatre operated until its destruction in a fire in 1792. The second theatre stage in Buenos Aires was Teatro Coliseo, opened in 1804 during the term of Viceroy Rafael de Sobremonte. It was the nation's longest-continuously operating stage. The musical creator of the Argentine National Anthem, Blas Parera, earned fame as a theatre score writer during the early 19th century. The genre suffered during the regime of Juan Manuel de Rosas, though it flourished alongside the economy later in the century. The national government gave Argentine theatre its initial impulse with the establishment of the Colón Theatre, in 1857, which hosted classical and operatic, as well as stage performances. Antonio Petalardo's successful 1871 gambit on the opening of the Teatro Opera, inspired others to fund the growing art in Argentina.\n\nThe Argentine film industry has historically been one of the three most developed in Latin American cinema, along with those produced in Mexico and Brazil. Started in 1896; by the early 1930s it had already become Latin America's leading film producer, a place it kept until the early 1950s. The world's first animated feature films were made and released in Argentina, by cartoonist Quirino Cristiani, in 1917 and 1918.\n\nArgentine films have achieved worldwide recognition: the country has won two Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, with \"The Official Story\" (1985) and \"The Secret in Their Eyes\" (2009) with seven nominations:\n\nIn addition, Argentine composers Luis Enrique Bacalov and Gustavo Santaolalla have been honored with Academy Award for Best Original Score in 2006 and 2007 nods and \"Armando Bo\" and \"Nicolás Giacobone\" have been honored with Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay in 2015. Also, the Argentine French actress Bérénice Bejo received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2011 and won the César Award for Best Actress and won the Best Actress award in the Cannes Film Festival for her role in the film \"The Past\".\n\nArgentina also has won seventeen Goya Awards for Best Spanish Language Foreign Film with \"A King and His Movie\" (1986), \"A Place in the World\" (1992), \"Gatica, el mono\" (1993), \"Autumn Sun\" (1996), \"Ashes of Paradise\" (1997), \"The Lighthouse\" (1998), \"Burnt Money\" (2000), \"The Escape\" (2001), \"Intimate Stories\" (2003), \"Blessed by Fire\" (2005), \"The Hands\" (2006), \"XXY\" (2007), \"The Secret in Their Eyes\" (2009), \"Chinese Take-Away\" (2011), \"Wild Tales\" (2014), \"The Clan\" (2015) and \"The Distinguished Citizen\" (2016) being by far the most awarded in Latin America with twenty four nominations.\n\nMany other Argentine films have been acclaimed by the international critique: \"Camila\" (1984), \"Man Facing Southeast\" (1986), \"A Place in the World\" (1992), \"Pizza, Beer, and Cigarettes\" (1997), \"Nine Queens\" (2000), \"A Red Bear\" (2002), \"The Motorcycle Diaries\" (2004), \"The Aura\" (2005), \"Chinese Take-Away\" (2011) and \"Wild Tales\" (2014) being some of them.\n\nSome of the best-known Argentine painters are Cándido López and Florencio Molina Campos (Naïve style); Ernesto de la Cárcova and Eduardo Sívori (Realism); Fernando Fader (Impressionism); Pío Collivadino, Atilio Malinverno and Cesáreo Bernaldo de Quirós (Postimpressionism); Emilio Pettoruti (Cubism); Julio Barragán (Concretism and Cubism) Antonio Berni (Neofigurativism); Roberto Aizenberg and Xul Solar (Surrealism); Gyula Košice (Constructivism); Eduardo Mac Entyre (Generative art); Luis Seoane, \"Carlos Torrallardona\", \"Luis Aquino\", and \"Alfredo Gramajo Gutiérrez\" (Modernism); Lucio Fontana (Spatialism); Tomás Maldonado and Guillermo Kuitca (Abstract art); León Ferrari and Marta Minujín (Conceptual art); and Gustavo Cabral (Fantasy art).\n\nIn 1946 Gyula Košice and others created The Madí Movement in Argentina, which then spread to Europe and United States, where it had a significant impact.\nTomás Maldonado was one of the main theorists of the Ulm Model of design education, still highly influential globally.\n\nOther Argentine artists of worldwide fame include Adolfo Bellocq, whose lithographs have been influential since the 1920s, and Benito Quinquela Martín, the quintessential port painter, inspired by the immigrant-bound La Boca neighborhood.\n\nInternationally laureate sculptors Erminio Blotta, Lola Mora and Rogelio Yrurtia authored many of the classical evocative monuments of the Argentine cityscape.\n\nThe colonization brought the Spanish Baroque architecture, which can still be appreciated in its simpler \"Rioplatense\" style in the reduction of San Ignacio Miní, the Cathedral of Córdoba, and the Cabildo of Luján. Italian and French influences increased at the beginning of the 19th century with strong eclectic overtones that gave the local architecture a unique feeling.\n\nNumerous Argentine architects have enriched their own country's cityscape and those around the world: Juan Antonio Buschiazzo helped popularize Beaux-Arts architecture and Francisco Gianotti combined Art Nouveau with Italianate styles, each adding flair to Argentine cities during the early 20th century. Francisco Salamone and Viktor Sulčič left an Art Deco legacy, and Alejandro Bustillo created a prolific body of Neoclassical and Rationalist architecture. Alberto Prebisch and Amancio Williams were highly influenced by Le Corbusier, while Clorindo Testa introduced Brutalist architecture locally. César Pelli's and Patricio Pouchulu's Futurist creations have graced cities worldwide: Pelli's 1980s throwbacks to the Art Deco glory of the 1920s made him one of the world's most prestigious architects, with the Norwest Center and the Petronas Towers among his most celebrated creations.\n\n\"Pato\" is the national sport, an ancient horseback game locally originated in the early 1600s and predecessor of horseball. The most popular sport is football. Along with Brazil and France, the men's national team is the only one to have won the most important international triplet: World Cup, Confederations Cup, and Olympic Gold Medal. It has also won 14 Copas América, 6 Pan American Gold Medals and many other trophies. Alfredo Di Stéfano, Diego Maradona and Lionel Messi are among the best players in the game's history.\n\nThe country's women's field hockey team \"Las Leonas\", is one of the world's most successful with four Olympic medals, two World Cups, a World League and seven Champions Trophy. Luciana Aymar is recognized as the best female player in the history of the sport, being the only player to have received the FIH Player of the Year Award eight times.\n\nBasketball is a very popular sport. The men's national team is the only one in the FIBA Americas zone that has won the quintuplet crown: World Championship, Olympic Gold Medal, Diamond Ball, Americas Championship, and Pan American Gold Medal. It has also conquered 13 South American Championships, and many other tournaments. Emanuel Ginóbili, Luis Scola, Andrés Nocioni, Fabricio Oberto, Pablo Prigioni, Carlos Delfino and Juan Ignacio Sánchez are a few of the country's most acclaimed players, all of them part of the NBA. Argentina hosted the Basketball World Cup in 1950 and 1990. \n\nRugby is another popular sport in Argentina. the men's national team, known as 'Los Pumas' has competed at the Rugby World Cup each time it has been held, achieving their highest ever result in 2007 when they came third. Since 2012 the Los Pumas have competed against Australia, New Zealand & South Africa in The Rugby Championship, the premier international Rugby competition in the Southern Hemisphere. Since 2009 the secondary men's national team known as the 'Jaguares' has competed against the USA, Canada, and Uruguay first teams in the Americas Rugby Championship, which Los Jaguares have won six out of eight times it has taken place.\n\nArgentina has produced some of the most formidable champions for Boxing, including Carlos Monzón, the best middleweight in history; Pascual Pérez, one of the most decorated flyweight boxers of all times; Horacio Accavallo, the former WBA and WBC world flyweight champion; Víctor Galíndez, record holder for consecutive world light heavyweight title defenses and Nicolino Locche, nicknamed \"The Untouchable\" for his masterful defense; they are all inductees into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.\n\nTennis has been quite popular among people of all ages. Guillermo Vilas is the greatest Latin American player of the Open Era, while Gabriela Sabatini is the most accomplished Argentine female player of all time—having reached #3 in the WTA Ranking, are both inductees into the International Tennis Hall of Fame.\n\nArgentina reigns undisputed in Polo, having won more international championships than any other country and been seldom beaten since the 1930s. The Argentine Polo Championship is the sport's most important international team trophy. The country is home to most of the world's top players, among them Adolfo Cambiaso, the best in Polo history.\n\nHistorically, Argentina has had a strong showing within Auto racing. Juan Manuel Fangio was five times Formula One world champion under four different teams, winning 102 of his 184 international races, and is widely ranked as the greatest driver of all time. Other distinguished racers were Oscar Alfredo Gálvez, Juan Gálvez, José Froilán González and Carlos Reutemann.\n\nBesides many of the pasta, sausage and dessert dishes common to continental Europe, Argentines enjoy a wide variety of Indigenous and Criollo creations, including \"empanadas\" (a small stuffed pastry), \"locro\" (a mixture of corn, beans, meat, bacon, onion, and gourd), \"humita\" and \"mate\".\n\nThe country has the highest consumption of red meat in the world, traditionally prepared as \"asado\", the Argentine barbecue. It is made with various types of meats, often including \"chorizo\", sweetbread, chitterlings, and blood sausage.\n\nCommon desserts include \"facturas\" (Viennese-style pastry), cakes and pancakes filled with \"dulce de leche\" (a sort of milk caramel jam), \"alfajores\" (shortbread cookies sandwiched together with chocolate, \"dulce de leche\" or a fruit paste), and \"tortas fritas\" (fried cakes)\n\nArgentine wine, one of the world's finest, is an integral part of the local menu. Malbec, Torrontés, Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Chardonnay are some of the most sought-after varieties.\n\nSome of Argentina's national symbols are defined by law, while others are traditions lacking formal designation.\nThe Flag of Argentina consists of three horizontal stripes equal in width and colored light blue, white and light blue, with the Sun of May in the center of the middle white stripe. The flag was designed by Manuel Belgrano in 1812; it was adopted as a national symbol on 20 July 1816. The Coat of Arms, which represents the union of the provinces, came into use in 1813 as the seal for official documents.\nThe Argentine National Anthem was written by Vicente López y Planes with music by Blas Parera, and was adopted in 1813. The National Cockade was first used during the May Revolution of 1810 and was made official two years later. The Virgin of Luján is Argentina's patron saint.\n\nThe \"hornero\", living across most of the national territory, was chosen as the national bird in 1928 after a lower school survey.\nThe \"ceibo\" is the national floral emblem and national tree, while the \"quebracho colorado\" is the national forest tree.\nRhodochrosite is known as the national gemstone.\nThe national sport is \"pato\", an equestrian game that was popular among gauchos.\n\nArgentine wine is the national liquor, and \"mate\", the national infusion.\n\"Asado\" and \"locro\" are considered the national dishes.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37031676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37031676", "title": "Asian Coalition for Housing Rights", "text": "Asian Coalition for Housing Rights\n\nThe Asian Coalition for Housing Rights (ACHR) is a network of community organisations in Asia working on issues related to urban poverty, slums and slum upgrading. It champions low-income and other marginalised groups living in cities as experts on urban poverty, and as actors capable of contributing to urban development. \n\nACHR focuses on supporting the establishment and development of grassroots organisations of the urban poor, who can effectively advocate on housing and land reform. These organisations are typically formed around neighbourhood-level savings groups. ACHR equips these organisations with technical support, such as architects and urban planners who can help the urban poor to map their living conditions and draw up comprehensive site plans for upgrading or relocation projects. Communities will typically combine their savings in city development funds (CDFs), which allow them to leverage public finance from national and local governments, or even by international donors. This allows communities to take on much larger development projects.\n\nBy linking residents of informal settlements at the settlement, city, country and regional scale, ACHR provides a channel for the urban poor to influence policy and programmes. In Thailand, for example, ACHR has helped low-income communities to negotiate land sharing or land leasing arrangements with local authorities and private landowners, and then to access low-cost housing loans and infrastructure subsidies to upgrade their neighbourhoods. The aim is to help landowners capture the commercial value of their land while reducing urban poverty and vulnerability. \n\nACHR's emphasis on community finance should be distinguished from microfinance. Local groups collectively decide together how to use their savings to meet both public and private aims. The collective financial capital strengthens the group’s social capital, and the two grow together. This collective aspect is not present in microfinance, where the emphasis is on individual access to credit and loan repayment, not on achieving collective priorities or addressing the structural issues that cause poverty and exclusion. ACHR has financed exchanges among informal settlements, cities and countries to allow the urban poor to share success stories and lessons learned across Asian cities. This allows successful innovations to be replicated, including city development funds.\n\nCentral to ACHR's work over recent years has been the Asian Coalition for Community Action (ACCA), a fund supporting local organisations through professional exchanges and grants/loans in 165 cities and 19 Asian countries. The ACCA programme enabled the expansion and evolution of savings processes, so that local groups were able to offer more sophisticated financial products: longer-term savings for housing, interest-earning savings accounts, insurance/welfare schemes and loans for both individual livelihoods and community enterprises. \n\nIn most countries, the ACCA savings process began with informal groups. However, more formal structures have been developed in many places. In Thailand, the savings groups have had to register as housing cooperatives, while in the Philippines, the savings groups have had to register as homeowners' associations or community associations. In Cambodia, the movement remains unregulated. In all cases, savings networks have sought to collaborate with multiple levels of government to influence land use zoning, service provision and building codes, as well as to negotiate access to land and subsidies.\n\nACHR was established in 1989. The Secretariat is based in Bangkok. The Secretary General is Somsook Boonyabancha, who was formerly Director of the Community Organizations Development Institute (CODI) in Thailand. ACHR has close ties with the Slum Dwellers International movement, having supported SDI to initiate saving schemes, form local slum federations and establish dialogues with municipal and national governments on issues such as sanitation, water and relocation.\n\n"}
{"id": "53133850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53133850", "title": "Baikalia", "text": "Baikalia\n\nBaikalia (or Baykalia) is a vague geographical term referring to the region around Lake Baikal. It is less common than the concept of Transbaikalia, the area to the east of Lake Baikal. The term Baikalia is loosely defined and has no official definition.\n\nThe Baikal area has a long history of human habitation. An early known tribe in the area was the Kurykans, forefathers of two ethnic groups: the Buryats and the Yakuts.\n\nLocated in the former northern territory of the Xiongnu confederation, Baikalia was a theatre of the Han–Xiongnu War, where the armies of the Han dynasty pursued and defeated the Xiongnu forces from the 2nd century BC to the 1st century AD. They recorded that the lake was a \"huge sea\" (\"hanhai\") and designated it the North Sea (\"Běihǎi\") of the semimythical Four Seas. The Kurykans, a Siberian tribe who inhabited the area in the sixth century, gave it a name that translates to \"much water\". Later on, it was called \"natural lake\" (\"Baygal nuur\") by the Buryats and \"rich lake\" (\"Bay göl\") by the Yakuts. Little was known to Europeans about the lake until Russia expanded into the area in the 17th century. The first Russian explorer to reach Lake Baikal was Kurbat Ivanov in 1643.\n\nRussian expansion into the Buryat area around Lake Baikal in 1628–58 was part of the Russian conquest of Siberia. It was done first by following the Angara River upstream from Yeniseysk (founded 1619) and later by moving south from the Lena River. Russians first heard of the Buryats in 1609 at Tomsk. According to folktales related a century after the fact, in 1623, Demid Pyanda, who may have been the first Russian to reach the Lena, crossed from the upper Lena to the Angara and arrived at Yeniseysk.\n\nVikhor Savin (1624) and Maksim Perfilyev (1626 and 1627–28) explored Tungus country on the lower Angara. To the west, Krasnoyarsk on the upper Yenisei was founded in 1627. A number of ill-documented expeditions explored eastward from Krasnoyarsk. In 1628, Pyotr Beketov first encountered a group of Buryats and collected \"yasak\" (tribute) from them at the future site of Bratsk. In 1629, Yakov Khripunov set off from Tomsk to find a rumored silver mine. His men soon began plundering both Russians and natives. They were joined by another band of rioters from Krasnoyarsk, but left the Buryat country when they ran short of food. This made it difficult for other Russians to enter the area. In 1631, Maksim Perfilyev built an \"ostrog\" at Bratsk. The pacification was moderately successful, but in 1634, Bratsk was destroyed and its garrison killed. In 1635, Bratsk was restored by a punitive expedition under Radukovskii. In 1638, it was besieged unsuccessfully.\n\nIn 1638, Perfilyev crossed from the Angara over the Ilim portage to the Lena River and went downstream as far as Olyokminsk. Returning, he sailed up the Vitim River into the area east of Lake Baikal (1640) where he heard reports of the Amur country. In 1641, Verkholensk was founded on the upper Lena. In 1643, Kurbat Ivanov went further up the Lena and became the first Russian to see Lake Baikal and Olkhon Island. Half his party under Skorokhodov remained on the lake, reached the Upper Angara at its northern tip, and wintered on the Barguzin River on the northeast side.\n\nIn 1644, Ivan Pokhabov went up the Angara to Baikal, becoming perhaps the first Russian to use this route, which is difficult because of the rapids. He crossed the lake and explored the lower Selenge River. About 1647, he repeated the trip, obtained guides, and visited a 'Tsetsen Khan' near Ulan Bator. In 1648, Ivan Galkin built an \"ostrog \"on the Barguzin River which became a center for eastward expansion. In 1652, Vasily Kolesnikov reported from Barguzin that one could reach the Amur country by following the Selenga, Uda, and Khilok Rivers to the future sites of Chita and Nerchinsk. In 1653, Pyotr Beketov took Kolesnikov's route to Lake Irgen west of Chita, and that winter his man Urasov founded Nerchinsk. Next spring, he tried to occupy Nerchensk, but was forced by his men to join Stephanov on the Amur.\n\nThe Trans-Siberian Railway was built between 1896 and 1902. Construction of the scenic railway around the southwestern end of Lake Baikal required 200 bridges and 33 tunnels. Until its completion, a train ferry transported railcars across the lake from Port Baikal to Mysovaya for a number of years. The lake became the site of the minor engagement between the Czechoslovak legion and the Red Army in 1918. At times during winter freezes, the lake could be crossed on foot—though at risk of frostbite and deadly hypothermia from the cold wind moving unobstructed across flat expanses of ice. In the winter of 1920, the Great Siberian Ice March occurred, when the retreating White Russian Army crossed frozen Lake Baikal. The wind on the exposed lake was so cold, many people died, freezing in place until spring thaw. Beginning in 1956, the impounding of the Irkutsk Dam on the Angara River raised the level of the lake by .\n"}
{"id": "7003959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7003959", "title": "Braničevo (region)", "text": "Braničevo (region)\n\nBraničevo (Serbian Cyrillic: Браничево, ) is a geographical region in east-central Serbia. It is mostly situated in the Braničevo District.\n\nIn the 9th century, a Slavic (Serb) tribe known as Braničevci are mentioned living in the region. In this time, the town named Braničevo also existed in the area, at the estuary of the river Mlava into Danube. In the Early Middle Ages, Braničevo became a part of the First Bulgarian Empire. After the conquest of Bulgaria, the Byzantines established the Theme of Sirmium in the wider region south of the river Danube. Syrmia, and hence Braničevo, came to be contested between Kingdom of Hungary on the one side, and the Byzantine Empire and the Second Bulgarian Empire (after its independence from the Byzantines) on the other. In the 13th century the Hungarians established the Banate of Braničevo (Banovina of Braničevo), but later in the century two local Bulgarian rulers, Darman and Kudelin, became independent and ruled over Braničevo and Kučevo. In 1291, they were defeated by the Serbian king, Stefan Dragutin, who joined Braničevo to his Syrmian Kingdom. Under his rule the town of Braničevo became a seat of the Eparchy of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The region later belonged to subsequent Serbian states, until it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire in the 15th century. In the 14th century, the region was in a possession of local rulers from the House of Rastislalić. During the Ottoman rule, Braničevo was part of the Sanjak of Smederevo, and since 19th century, it is again part of the Serbian state.\n\n"}
{"id": "54232426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54232426", "title": "Brunswick Rock", "text": "Brunswick Rock\n\nBrunswick Rock is a 19th century name for an obstruction in the Pearl River a little above the First Bar. It received its name after the East Indiaman grounded there in 1798. Later other vessels, such as and also grounded there. All were refloated. Then in 1815 the country ship \"Windham\" was wrecked on the Brunswick Rock, though her crew were rescued. At the time she was on a voyage from Bengal, India to China. \n\nDuring the First Opium War, the British Royal Navy defeated the Qing dynasty Imperial Chinese Navy in the Battle of First Bar in the vicinity.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "43306929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306929", "title": "Cadastral surveying", "text": "Cadastral surveying\n\nCadastral surveying is the sub-field of cadastre and surveying that specialises in the establishment and re-establishment of real property boundaries. It is an important component of the legal creation of properties. A cadastral surveyor must apply both the spatial-measurement principles of general surveying and legal principles such as respect of neighboring titles.\n\nOne of the primary roles of the land surveyor is to determine the boundary of real property on the ground. That boundary has already been established and described in legal documents and official plans and maps prepared by attorneys, engineers, and other land surveyors. The corners of the property will either have been monumented by a prior surveyor, or monumented by the surveyor hired to perform a survey of a new boundary which has been agreed upon by adjoining land owners.\n\nA common use of a survey is to determine a legal property boundary. The first stage in such a survey, known as a resurvey, is to obtain copies of the deed description and all other available documents from the owner. The deed description is that of the deed and not a tax statement or other incomplete document. The surveyor should then obtain copies of deed descriptions and maps of the adjoining properties, any records from the municipality or county, utility maps, and any records of surveys. Depending on which region the survey is located in, some or most of this information may not be available or even exist. Whether the information exists or not, a thorough search should be conducted so that no records are overlooked. Copies of deeds usually can be located in the government recorder's office, and maps or plats can usually be found at the recorder or surveyor's office. These arrangements will vary state-to-state and survey-system-to-survey system, so some familiarity may be needed.\n\nWhen all the records are assembled, the surveyor examines the documents for errors, such as closure errors. When a metes and bounds description is involved, the seniority of the deeds must be determined. The title abstract usually gives the order of seniority for the deeds related to the tract being surveyed and should be used if available. After this data is gathered and analyzed the field survey may commence. The initial survey operations should be concentrated on locating monuments. In urban regions, monuments should be sought initially; but in the absence of monuments, property corners marked by iron pins, metal survey markers, iron pipes, and other features possibly establishing a line of possession should be located. When the approximate positions for the boundaries of the property have been located, a traverse is run around the property. While the control traverse is being run, ties should be measured and all details relevant to the boundaries should be acquired. This includes but is not limited to locating the property corners, monuments, fences, hedge rows, walls, walks, and all buildings on the lot. The surveyor then takes this collected data and compares it to the records which were received. When a solution is reached, the chosen property corners (those that best fit all the data) are coordinated, and ties by direction and distance are computed from the nearest traverse point. Once this has been established the features on the lot can be drawn, dimensions can be shown from these features to the boundary line, and a map or plat is prepared for the client.\n\nMonuments are categorized into two groups which are known as natural and artificial. Natural monuments are things such as trees, large stones, and other substantial, naturally occurring objects that were in place before the survey was made. An artificial monument is anything within the regulations which marks the property boundary – having been placed by landowners, surveyors, engineers, or others. They may be referred to as iron pins or pipes, stakes, trees, concrete monuments, or whatever the surveyor decides to use at the time, within the regulations for the area. The courts have held that natural monuments take precedence over artificial monuments, because they are more certain in identification and less likely to be disturbed.\n\nOver time, construction and maintenance of roads and many other human acts, along with acts of nature such as earthquakes, movement of water, and tectonic shift can obliterate or damage the monumented locations of land boundaries. The land surveyor is often compelled to consider other evidence such as fence locations, wood lines, monuments on neighboring properties, and people's recollections. This other evidence is known as extrinsic evidence and is a fairly common principle. Extrinsic evidence is defined as evidence outside the writings, in this case evidence outside of the deed. Extrinsic evidence is held to be of equal value to evidence from another source.\n\nToday's land surveyor sets monuments at actual physical points on the ground that define angle points of boundary lines dividing neighboring land parcels. These monuments are most often 1/2\" or 5/8\" iron rebar rods or pipes placed at 18\" minimum depth, but they vary from state by state. The more recent rods or pipes may have an affixed plastic cap over the top bearing the responsible surveyor's name and license number. Older monuments may exist such as old pipes, gun barrels, axles, mounds of stone, whiskey bottles, or even wooden stakes. In addition to rods and pipes, surveyors might use 4x4\" concrete posts at the corners of large parcels or anywhere which requires greater stability (e.g. beach sand). They place the posts three feet deep.\n\nIn locations where there is asphalt or concrete, it is common to place nails or aluminum-alloy caps to re-establish boundary corners. Marks are meant to be durable, stable, and as \"permanent\" as possible. The aim is to provide sufficient marks so that some of them will remain for future re-establishment of boundaries. The material and marking used for monuments placed to mark boundary corners are often subject to state laws. Many states have laws that protect existing monuments and may apply civil penalties if the markers are disturbed or destroyed.\n\nMany properties have considerable problems with regard to improper bounding or miscalculations in past surveys, titles, easements, and wildlife crossings. Also, many properties are created from multiple divisions of a larger piece over the course of years, and with every additional division the risk of miscalculation increases. The result can be abutting properties not coinciding with adjacent parcels, resulting in hiatuses (gaps) and overlaps. Many times a surveyor must solve a puzzle using pieces that do not exactly fit together. In these cases, the solution is based upon the surveyor's research and interpretation, along with established procedures for resolving discrepancies. This is essentially a process of continual error correction and update, where official recordation documents countermand the previous and sometime erroneous survey documents recorded by older monuments and older survey methods.\n"}
{"id": "9792173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9792173", "title": "Castle Rock Regional Recreational Area", "text": "Castle Rock Regional Recreational Area\n\nCastle Rock Regional Recreation Area is a regional park of the East Bay Regional Park District. It is located in Contra Costa County, in the East Bay region of northern California. \n\nThe park lies in a scenic sandstone canyon in the Diablo Foothills of the northern Diablo Range, west of Mount Diablo and Mount Diablo State Park. The closest city is Walnut Creek to the north. \n\nCastle Rock Regional Recreation Area is bordered by: Diablo Foothills Regional Park on the west, and Shell Ridge Open Space to the north. Together, these three parks provide of parkland for visitors to enjoy. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3086453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3086453", "title": "Core sample", "text": "Core sample\n\nA core sample is a cylindrical section of (usually) a naturally occurring substance. Most core samples are obtained by drilling with special drills into the substance, for example sediment or rock, with a hollow steel tube called a core drill. The hole made for the core sample is called the \"core bowling\". A variety of core samplers exist to sample different media under different conditions. More continue to be invented on a regular basis. In the coring process, the sample is pushed more or less intact into the tube. Removed from the tube in the laboratory, it is inspected and analyzed by different techniques and equipment depending on the type of data desired. \n\nCore samples can be taken to test the properties of manmade materials, such as concrete, ceramics, some metals and alloys, especially the softer ones. Core samples can also be taken of living things, including human beings, especially of a person's bones for microscopic examination to help diagnose diseases. \n\nThe composition of the subject materials can vary from almost liquid to the strongest materials found in nature or technology, and the location of the subject materials can vary from on the laboratory bench to over 10 km from the surface of the Earth in a borehole. The range of equipment and techniques applied to the task is correspondingly great. Core samples are most often taken with their long axis oriented roughly parallel to the axis of a borehole, or parallel to the gravity field for the gravity-driven tools. However it is also possible to take core samples from the wall of an existing borehole. Taking samples from an exposure, albeit an overhanging rock face or on a different planet, is almost trivial. (The Mars Exploration Rovers carry a Rock Abrasion Tool, which is logically equivalent to the \"rotary sidewall core\" tool described below.)\n\nSome common techniques include:\n\nAlthough often neglected, core samples always degrade to some degree in the process of cutting the core, handling it, and studying it. Non-destructive techniques are increasingly common (e.g. the use of MRI scanning to characterize grains, pore fluids, pore spaces (porosity) and their interactions (constituting part of permeability) but such expensive subtlety is likely wasted on a core that has been shaken on an unsprung lorry for 300 km of dirt road. What happens to cores between the retrieval equipment and the final laboratory (or archive) is an often neglected part of record keeping and core management.\n\nCoring has come to be recognized as an important source of data, and more attention and care is being put on preventing damage to the core during various stages of it transportation and analysis. The usual way to do this is to freeze the core completely using liquid nitrogen, which is cheaply sourced. In some cases, special polymers are also used to preserve and seat/cushion the core from damage.\n\nEqually, a core sample which cannot be related to its context (where it was before it became a core sample) has lost much of its benefit. The identification of the borehole, and the position and orientation (\"way up\") of the core in the borehole is critical, even if the borehole is in a tree trunk - dendrochronologists always try to include a bark surface in their samples so that the date of most-recent growth of the tree can be unambiguously determined.\n\nIf these data become separated from core samples, it is generally impossible to regain that data. The cost of a coring operation can vary from a few currency units (for a hand-caught core from a soft soil section) to tens of millions of currency units (for sidewall cores from a remote-area offshore borehole many kilometres deep). Inadequate recording of such basic data has ruined the utility of both types of core.\n\nDifferent disciplines have different local conventions of recording these data, and the user should familiarize themselves with their area's conventions. For example, in the oil industry, orientation of the core is typically recorded by marking the core with two longitudinal colour streaks, with the red one on the right when the core is being retrieved and marked at surface. Cores cut for mineral mining may have their own, different, conventions. Civil engineering or soil studies may have their own, different, conventions as their materials are often not competent enough to make permanent marks on.\n\nIt is becoming increasingly common to retain core samples in cylindrical packaging which forms part of the core-cutting equipment, and to make the marks of record on these \"inner barrels\" in the field prior to further processing and analysis in the laboratory. Sometimes core is shipped from the field to the laboratory in as long a length as it comes out of the ground; other times it is cut into standard lengths (5m or 1m or 3 ft) for shipping, then reassembled in the laboratory. Some of the \"inner barrel\" systems are capable of being reversed on the core sample, so that in the laboratory the sample goes \"wrong way up\" when the core is reassembled. This can complicate interpretation. \n\nIf the borehole has petrophysical measurements made of the wall rocks, and these measurements are repeated along the length of the core then the two data sets correlated, one will almost universally find that the depth \"of record\" for a particular piece of core differs between the two methods of measurement. Which set of measurements to believe then becomes a matter of policy for the client (in an industrial setting) or of great controversy (in a context without an overriding authority. Recording that there are discrepancies, for whatever reason, retains the possibility of correcting an incorrect decision at a later date ; destroying the \"incorrect\" depth data makes it impossible to correct a mistake later. Any system for retaining and archiving data and core samples needs to be designed so that dissenting opinion like this can be retained.\n\nIf core samples from a campaign are competent, it is common practice to \"slab\" them - cut the sample into two or more samples longitudinally - quite early in laboratory processing so that one set of samples can be archived early in the analysis sequence as a protection against errors in processing. \"Slabbing\" the core into a 2/3 and a 1/3 set is common. It is also common for one set to be retained by the main customer while the second set goes to the government (who often impose a condition for such donation as a condition of exploration/ exploitation licensing). \"Slabbing\" also has the benefit of preparing a flat, smooth surface for examination and testing of profile permeability, which is very much easier to work with than the typically rough, curved surface of core samples when they're fresh from the coring equipment. Photography of raw and \"slabbed\" core surfaces is routine, often under both natural and ultra-violet light.\nA unit of length occasionally used in the literature on seabed cores is \"cmbsf\", an abbreviation for centimeters below sea floor.\n\nThe technique of coring long predates attempts to drill into the Earth’s mantle by the Deep Sea Drilling Program. The value to oceanic and other geologic history of obtaining cores over a wide area of sea floors soon became apparent. Core sampling by many scientific and exploratory organizations expanded rapidly. To date hundreds of thousands of core samples have been collected from floors of all the planet’s oceans and many of its inland waters. \nAccess to many of these samples is facilitated by the Index to Marine & Lacustrine Geological Samples,\nThe above agency keeps a record of the samples held in the repositories of its member organizations. Data includes\n\nCoring began as a method of sampling surroundings of ore deposits and oil exploration. It soon expanded to oceans, lakes, ice, mud, soil and wood. Cores on very old trees give information about their growth rings without destroying the tree. \n\nCores indicate variations of climate, species and sedimentary composition during geologic history. The dynamic phenomena of the Earth’s surface are for the most part cyclical in a number of ways, especially temperature and rainfall.\n\nThere are many ways to date a core. Once dated, it gives valuable information about changes of climate and terrain. For example, cores in the ocean floor, soil and ice have altered the view of the geologic history of the Pleistocene entirely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27742158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742158", "title": "David Livingstone Centenary Medal", "text": "David Livingstone Centenary Medal\n\nThe David Livingstone Centenary Medal was established in March 1913 by the Hispanic Society of America. The establishment commemorates the 100th anniversary of David Livingstone’s birth. Designed by Gutzon Borglum, this medal is awarded by the American Geographical Society for \"scientific achievements in the field of geography of the Southern Hemisphere\".\n\nLivingstone led the Zambezi Expedition from 1858 to 1864. He returned to Africa in 1868, to Zanzibar, where he discovered Lake Victoria and the Lualaba River.\n\nThe following people received the award in the year specified: \n\n"}
{"id": "5451377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5451377", "title": "Departments of Cameroon", "text": "Departments of Cameroon\n\nThe Regions of Cameroon are divided into 58 divisions or departments. The divisions are further sub-divided into sub-divisions (\"arrondissements\") and districts. The divisions are listed below, by province.\n\nThe constitution divides Cameroon into 10 semi-autonomous regions, each under the administration of an elected Regional Council. A presidential decree of 12 November 2008 officially instigated the change from provinces to regions. Each region is headed by a presidentially appointed governor. These leaders are charged with implementing the will of the president, reporting on the general mood and conditions of the regions, administering the civil service, keeping the peace, and overseeing the heads of the smaller administrative units. Governors have broad powers: they may order propaganda in their area and call in the army, gendarmes, and police. All local government officials are employees of the central government’s Ministry of Territorial Administration, from which local governments also get most of their budgets.\n\nThe regions are subdivided into 58 divisions (departments). These are headed by presidentially appointed divisional officers (), who perform the governors' duties on a smaller scale. The divisions are further sub-divided into sub-divisions (), headed by assistant divisional officers (). The districts, administered by district heads (), are the smallest administrative units. These are found in large sub-divisions and in regions that are difficult to reach.\n\nThe three northernmost regions are the Far North (), North (), and Adamawa (). Directly south of them are the Centre () and East (). The South Province () lies on the Gulf of Guinea and the southern border. Cameroon's western region is split into four smaller regions: The Littoral () and Southwest () regions are on the coast, and the Northwest () and West () regions are in the western grassfields. The Northwest and Southwest were once part of British Cameroons; the other regions were in French Cameroun.\n\nThe Adamawa province of Cameroon contains the following five departments:\n\nThe Centre province of Cameroon contains the following ten departments:\n\nThe East province of Cameroon contains the following four departments:\n\nThe Far North province of Cameroon contains the following six departments:\n\nThe Littoral province of Cameroon contains the following four departments:\n\nThe North province of Cameroon contains the following four departments:\n\nThe Northwest province of Cameroon contains the following seven departments:\n\nThe South province of Cameroon contains the following four departments:\n\nThe Southwest province of Cameroon contains the following six departments:\n\nThe West province of Cameroon contains the following eight departments:\n\n"}
{"id": "2388372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2388372", "title": "Dhundhar", "text": "Dhundhar\n\nDhundhar, also known as \"Jaipur region\", is a historical region of Rajasthan state in western India. It includes the districts of Jaipur, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, and Tonk and the northern part of Karauli District.\n\nThe region lies in east-central Rajasthan, and is bounded by the Aravalli Range on the northwest, Ajmer to the west, Mewar region to the southwest, Hadoti region to the south, and Alwar, Bharatpur, and Karauli districts to the east.\n\nIn 1900, at the times of Jaipur Kingdom, region had a total area of 15,579 square miles (40,349 km²).\n\nThe southern and central portions of the region lie in the basin of the Banas River and its tributaries, including the Dhund River, which gives its name to the region. The northern portion of the region is drained by the Ban Ganga River, which originates in Jaipur district and flows east to join the Yamuna in Uttar Pradesh state.\n\nThe state of Jaipur was earlier knows as Amber or Dhundhar and was ruled by Meena tribe, who held a fortress at Naen. later a Kachhwaha prince destroyed the sovereignty of Naen.\n\nGenerally liberal policies of the rulers permitted Jainism to flourish at Amber and later at Jaipur.\n\nIt continues to be one of the most important centers of Jainism in India. It is here where the Bispanthi/Digambar Terapanthi divisions among the Jains emerged in the 17th century. In the 17th century the Chittor seat of the Bhattarakas of Mula Sangh Saraswati gachchha moved from Champawati to Sanganer and then to Amber and finally to Jaipur where the last Bhattarka was present until 1965. The lineage is:\n"}
{"id": "47262581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262581", "title": "Donji Dragonožec", "text": "Donji Dragonožec\n\nDonji Dragonožec is a village in Croatia.\n"}
{"id": "2042949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042949", "title": "ED50", "text": "ED50\n\nED50 (\"European Datum 1950\") is a geodetic datum which was defined after World War II for the international connection of geodetic networks.\n\nSome of the important battles of World War II were fought on the borders of Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and France, and the mapping of these countries had incompatible latitude and longitude positioning. This led to the setting up of ED50 as a consistent mapping datum for much of Western Europe. It was, and still is, used in much of Western Europe apart from Great Britain, Ireland, Sweden and Switzerland, which have their own datums.\n\nIt used the International Ellipsoid of 1924 (\"Hayford-Ellipsoid\" of 1909) (radius of the Earth's equator 6378.388 km, flattening 1/297, both exact). That spheroid was an early attempt to model the whole Earth and was widely used around the world until the 1980s when GRS 80 and WGS 84 were established.\n\nMany national coordinate systems of Gauss–Krüger are defined by ED50 and oriented by means of geodetic astronomy. Up to now it has been used in databases of gravity fields, cadastre, small surveying networks in Europe and America, and by some developing countries with no modern baselines. ED50 was also part of the fundamentals of the NATO coordinates (Gauss–Krüger and UTM) up to the 1980s.\n\nThe geodetic datum of ED50 was centred at the Helmertturm on the Telegrafenberg in Potsdam, (then East) Germany; the intent was to encourage cooperation with the socialist states during the cold war, which failed. The adjustments for later versions of the datum (ED77, ED79) used the Munich Frauenkirche as starting point.\n\nThe longitude and latitude lines on the two datums are the same in the Archangel region of north-west Russia. As one moves westwards across Europe, the longitude lines on ED50 gradually become further west than their WGS 84 equivalents, and are around 100 metres west in Spain and Portugal. Moving southwards, the latitude lines on ED50 gradually become further south than the WGS 84 lines, and are around 100 m south in the Mediterranean Sea. \n\nThis means that if the lines are further west, the longitude value of any given point becomes more easterly. Similarly, if the lines are south, the values become northerly. This is due to the fact that the International Ellipsoid is larger than the GRS 80/WGS 84 ellipsoid, so a given north-south distance will cover more latitude on the new ellipsoid, and a given east-west distance will cover more longitude.\n\nThe datum shift for the Universal Transverse Mercator grid is different. The eastings vary between 0 m in Eastern Europe and 100 m in the far west of the continent, roughly similar to the longitude shift, but the northings are about 200 m different across Europe, with the ED50 UTM northing lines south of the WGS 84 UTM northing lines. UTM northings are measured from the Equator; distance from the equator to latitude 50 degrees is 112 m more on the International than on the WGS 84 spheroid.\n\n"}
{"id": "31986863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31986863", "title": "English county histories", "text": "English county histories\n\nEnglish county histories, in other words historical and topographical (or \"chorographical\") works concerned with individual ancient counties of England, were produced by antiquarians from the late 16th century onwards. The content was variable: some recorded archaeological sites, but others were heavily slanted towards the genealogies of county families and other biographical material, particularly relating to property and the descent of lordships of manors. The tradition continues with the series of Victoria County Histories.\n\nA closely related genre, which emerged in the second half of the 17th century, was the county \"Natural History\", which focused on the county's flora, fauna and natural phenomena, but which also often included chapters on antiquities. The best known examples were Robert Plot's two volumes on Oxfordshire (1677) and Staffordshire (1686); and John Aubrey's unpublished work on Wiltshire.\n\nWilliam Lambarde's \"Perambulation of Kent\" (completed 1570; published 1576) is generally acknowledged as the first example of the genre. It was followed by Richard Carew's \"Survey of Cornwall\" (1602), and William Burton's \"Description of Leicester Shire\" (1622), as well as a number of other projects (such as those of Sir William Pole, Thomas Westcote, and Tristram Risdon in Devon, and Sampson Erdeswicke in Staffordshire) which, although they sometimes circulated in manuscript, did not come to completion or publication. Following the appearance of William Dugdale's \"Antiquities of Warwickshire\" (1656), a pattern was set. In the nineteenth century John Bowyer Nichols followed the line of a history of Leicestershire compiled by his father John Nichols, and saw numerous counties histories through the press at his printing firm. The scope of county histories varied, but the titles became quite standard: \"Antiquities of\", \"Worthies of\", \"Geological survey\", \"Description of\", later \"Directory of\", all could indicate the intention of producing a \"history\", a term that only in later times acquired the narrower meaning it carries today. Chorography, topography and toponymy might all be involved. Materials and collections for their counties were made by antiquaries, but publication might await sponsorship or enough subscriptions, as well as a capable author who would make a readable book, perhaps of multiple volumes, from notes.\n\nSee: History of Bedfordshire; ;\n\n\n\nSee: History of Buckinghamshire; ; \"Victoria County History\" edited by William Page\n\n\n\n\nThe Cornwall history was supported by Francis Vyvyan Jago Arundell.\n\n\n\nThis goes back to the manuscript \"Accompt of the most considerable estates and families in the county of Cumberland\" of about 1603 by John Denton. Through copies made by Daniel Fleming, it used material collected by Christopher Rawlinson. Joseph Nicolson (born 1706, baptised William – 1777), son of John Nicolson of Hawkesdale, was a nephew of Bishop William Nicolson, and inherited from him collections relating to Carlisle. Burn and Nicolson used in particular material collected by Thomas Machell, vicar of Kirkby Thore, and collated by William Nicolson.\n\n\n\nGlover made use of, and expanded, an unpublished history by William Woolley.\n\n\n\nJohn Swete supplied material to Polwhele.\n\n\n\n\nBoth Hutchinson and Surtees drew on the work of George Allan. John Brewster assisted Surtees.\n\n\n\nMorant used collections of Thomas Jekyll; and also material from Richard Symonds he obtained via Gregory King. A major source was the parish descriptions of William Holman. These had been acquired by Nicholas Tindal, for whom Morant worked as a curate; Tindal made a small start on publishing Essex history, around 1732. They then passed via Nathaniel Salmon, Anthony Allen and John Booth, before Morant had them from Booth about 1750.\n\n\nThomas Leman and probably Joseph Strutt assisted.\n\n\n\nRudder's work was based on Atkyns and a manuscript of Richard Furney.\n\n\n\n\nDuncumb used work by Richard Blyke; and an older manuscript by Silas Taylor (Domville).\n\nSee: History of Hertfordshire; ; \"Victoria County History\"\n\nSalmon drew on unpublished material of Chauncy.\n\n\nClutterbuck used collections of Thomas Blore.\n\n\nPhilipot drew on materials originally collected by his father, John Philipot, and the \"Villare Cantianum\" is sometimes said to be John's work published under Thomas's name. He also drew on notes inherited from Robert Glover, his great-uncle.\n\n\nBaines used Edwin Butterworth as researcher and author; he also took much from Gregson's \"Portfolio\".\n\n\nBurton made use of notes of Augustine Vincent.\n\n\nNichols included unpublished material from William Burton, Francis Peck, and Richard Farmer.\n\n\n\n\n\nBlomefield used materials from Peter Le Neve and Thomas Martin of Palgrave. Charles Parkin worked to complete the history. Blomefield used material collected by Antony Norris, who later worked on completing and revising the history with John Fenn.\n\n\nBy Crouse and Booth of Norwich, this was largely copied from Blomefield.\n\n\n\nThis resulted from a project started by John Bridges, and took several generations to come to fruition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis included an edition of the 1779 \"History and Antiquities of Shrewsbury\" by Thomas Phillips, which drew on the work of James Bowen and John Bowen.\n\n\nDukes used a manuscript of Edward Lloyd.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDugdale used notes from William Burton; and much material from Simon Archer.\n\n\n\nNash used collections of Charles Lyttelton, including older research of Thomas Habington. He also was aware of the work of Thomas Dingley.\n\n\n\nHistories were also written of cities, ancient boroughs, newer municipalities, and even individual parishes (parochial histories).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12632789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12632789", "title": "Eurasian Basin", "text": "Eurasian Basin\n\nThe Eurasia Basin, or Eurasian Basin, is one of the two major basins into which the Arctic Basin of the Arctic Ocean is split by the Lomonosov Ridge (other being the Amerasia Basin). The Eurasia Basin may be seen as an extension of the North Atlantic Basin through Fram Strait. It is further split by the mid-ocean Gakkel Ridge into the Nansen Basin and the Amundsen Basin. The latter basin is the deepest one of the Arctic Ocean and the geographic North Pole is located there.\n\nThe Eurasia Basin is bounded by Greenland, the Lomonosov Ridge, and the shelves of the Laptev Sea, Kara Sea and Barents Sea. The maximum depth within the Eurasia Basin is reached at the Litke Deep with 5449 m depth. \n\nToday, the Gakkel Ridge is the site of some of the slowest seafloor spreading on the Earth, with 10 mm/yr near the Fram Strait and 6 mm/yr near the Laptev Sea. Initial opening of the Eurasia Basin is constrained by magnetic anomaly and geologic information to the Cenozoic: it was first created about 53 Million years ago by the spreading of the sea floor.\n"}
{"id": "767583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=767583", "title": "European political party", "text": "European political party\n\nA European political party (formally, a political party at European level; informally a Europarty) is a type of political party organisation operating transnationally in Europe and in the institutions of the European Union. They are regulated and funded by the European Union and are usually made up of national parties, not individuals. Europarties have the exclusive right to campaign during the European elections and express themselves within the European Parliament by their affiliated political groups and their MEPs. Europarties, through coordination meetings with their affiliated heads of state and government, influence the decision-making process of the European Council. Europarties also work closely and co-ordinate with their affiliated members of the European Commission and, according to the Lisbon Treaty the Europarty that wins the European elections has the right to nominate to the European Council its candidate for President of the European Commission.\n\nThe term \"political party in the EU\" can mean three different types of entities: domestic political parties, political groups in the European Parliament, and European political parties.\n\n, there are 10 registered Europarties:\n\nSection 41 of the Treaty of Maastricht added Article 138a to the Treaty of Rome. Article 138a (later renumbered to Article 191) stated that \"Political parties at European level are important as a factor for integration within the Union. They contribute to forming a European awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the Union.\" So the concept of a \"political party at European level\" was born.\n\nArticle J.18 and Article K.13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam established who should pay for expenditure authorised by Article 138/191 within certain areas. This provided a mechanism whereby Europarties could be paid for out of the European budget, and the Europarties started to spend the money. Such expenditure included funding national parties, an outcome not originally intended.\n\nArticle 2, section 19 of the Treaty of Nice added a \"second\" paragraph to Article 191 of the Treaty of Rome. That paragraph stated that \"The Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251, shall lay down the regulations governing political parties at European level and in particular the rules regarding their funding.\" The reference to \"Article 251\" refers to co-decision, which meant the European Parliament had to be involved. So Europarty funding had to be regulated by the Council and the European Parliament, acting together.\n\nRegulation (EC) No 2004/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 defined what a \"political party at European level\" actually \"was\" and specified that funding should not go to national parties, either directly or indirectly. This meant that European money should stay at the Europarty level and, as a result, the nascent Europarties started to organise themselves on a more European basis instead of acting as a mechanism for funding national parties.\n\nThat regulation was later heavily amended by the Decision of the Bureau of the European Parliament of 29 March 2004 and by other amendments, the latest of which is Regulation (EC) No 1524/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2007 These amendments tightened up the procedures and funding and provided for the earlier-floated concept of a \"political foundation at European level\". This meant that the Europarties can set up and fund legally separate affiliated think-tanks (the Eurofoundations) to aid them, although funding national parties remains forbidden. The revised regulation also gives Europarties the exclusive responsibility to campaign for the European elections and can use their funds for this purpose (their corresponding political groups of the European Parliament are strictly forbidden to campaign).\n\nRegulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 overhauled the existing framework for European Political Parties and Foundations, including by giving them legal status, and establishes an Authority for the purpose of registering, controlling and imposing sanctions on European political parties and European political foundations. The Authority will be a body of the European Union.\n\nThis regulation repealed Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003, however the provisions of that regulation shall continue to apply for the 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 budget years. Although it came into force on 24 November 2014, the regulations shall only apply from 1 January 2017. The Authority shall however be set up by 1 September 2016. European political parties and European political foundations registered after 1 January 2017 may only apply for funding under this Regulation for activities starting in the 2018 budget year or thereafter.\n\n\nAs of 1 November 2008, the regulation governing Europarties is Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003, as later amended under codecision (see above). According to that regulation's European Commission factsheet, for a party to become a Europarty it must meet the following criteria:\n\n\nThe initial total funding for 2012 was €15 million pre-financing. A further 20% (18.9 million) was given later on in the next year after accounts are presented, with yet further €9.720 million pre-financing for the foundations.\n\nAll current Europarties are mostly made up of national parties, individual members (MP or MEPs): MPs who are members of member parties can become members of the Europarty. Additionally, people can become individual members of the Europarty without having to join a national party first (e.g. Marian Harkin, who is an individual member of the European Democratic Party).\n\nOther parties;\n\n\nConfederations, networks and alliances are not europarties.\n\n\nEuroparty funding goes to Europarties and stays with Europarties: the funding cannot be used for the funding of other political parties and in particular national political parties. National political parties disinclined from joining Europarties are thereby disadvantaged. 25 Members of the European Parliament petitioned the European Court of Justice, arguing that this contravened the EU's stated values of pluralism and democracy. The case was rejected after eighteen months. A closely related case fought by the French Front National, the Italian Lega Nord, and the Belgian Vlaams Blok (now Vlaams Belang) was appealed and rejected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58620666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58620666", "title": "Glenstone", "text": "Glenstone\n\nGlenstone is a contemporary art museum in Potomac, Maryland, 15 miles from downtown Washington, D.C. It contains about 1,300 works in many mediums from post-World War II artists around the world. First opened in 2006, the museum was expanded several times in size in between 2013 and 2018 on its 230-acre campus. A significant expansion was opened to the public on October 4, 2018, with the introduction of a new museum complex called the Pavilions, an arrival hall, entry pavilion, bookstore and two cafés. The museum was developed and financed by billionaire American businessman Mitchell Rales, and is open free to the public via online booking.\n\nIn 1986, Rales purchased the Potomac, Maryland property, a former fox hunting club, in order to build a home. Soon thereafter, Rales began collecting art for that home. Rales first conceived of the idea of establishing a museum following a near-death accident on a helicopter trip, which inclined him to take on a philanthropical project. Glenstone is named for the nearby Glen Road, and because of stone quarries located in the vicinity. The museum's initial 30,000 square foot Modernist limestone gallery opened in 2006, and admitted visitors two days a week. In its first seven years of existence, the museum admitted 10,000 visitors.\n\nA major expansion was announced in 2013 and was completed in 2018, opening to the public on October 4, 2018. The expansion cost approximately $219 million and increased the size of the museum by a factor of five, and included substantial landscaping changes to the 230-acre property.\n\nAfter the 2018 expansion, Glenstone continued to acquire adjacent properties, including lots containing residential homes.\n\nThe museum's collection of about 1,300 post-World War II works consists of paintings, single-artist installations, sound installations, and both indoor and outdoor sculptures. One of the collection's constraints is that it only contains works by artists who have already exhibited for at least 15 years. Many of the museum's galleries feature only one artist, and do not contain explanatory text.\n\nThe museum is staffed by recent college graduates through its \"Emerging Professionals Program\", a two-year program for aspiring curators. This uniformed staff is stationed in the galleries to answer questions from visitors about the art.\n\nIn 2018, the introduction of the Pavilions expansion debuted single-artist installations and exhibitions from artists Cy Twombly, Robert Gober, Pipilotti Rist, Charles Ray, On Kawara, Martin Puryear, Michael Heizer, Lygia Pape, Brice Marden. Other artists on display in the inaugural exhibition of the expansion included Roni Horn, Alexander Calder, Ruth Asawa, David Hammons, Alighiero Boetti, and Mark Rothko.\n\nGlenstone consists of a cluster of distinctively designed museum galleries and other buildings set in a large wooded campus.\n\nThe original Glenstone building opened in 2006 and was designed by American architect Charles Gwathmey of Gwathmey Siegel & Associates Architects. The building was a 30,000 square foot modernist limestone structure with 9,000 feet of gallery space, located on 100 acres of land.\n\nThe 2018 expansion added 50,000 square feet of gallery space in a 204,000 square foot museum building called \"the Pavilions\", which was designed by American architect Thomas Phifer. Among the influences for the design is the Ryoan-ji Zen temple in Kyoto, Japan. The Pavilions is built of cast-concrete blocks that were poured during different seasons to produce variable coloring. Though it is one building, the Pavilions is meant to appear as multiple separate buildings from a distance. The structure contains eleven galleries connected by glass-enclosed walkways. The galleries make heavy use of natural light through clerestories, oculi, and skylights.\n\nThe Pavilions is built around the \"Water Court\", an 18,000 square foot water garden containing thousands of aquatic plants such as waterlilies, irises, thalias, cattails, and rushes. The Water Court's design was inspired by the reflecting pool at Brion Cemetery in northern Italy.\n\nThe expansion also added 130 acres of land, with the museum buildings located toward the center of the 230 acre property. Visitors approach the galleries from gravel parking lots via a pathway through the property that is about third of a mile (0.5 km) long. The landscape is largely woodland and wildflower meadows, and was designed by landscape architect Peter Walker. The effort included the planting of about 8,000 trees, the transplanting of 200 trees, and restorations of streams flowing through the campus. Types of trees in the landscape include sycamore, oak, redbud, dogwood, honey locust, and copper beech. This outdoor space hosts several large art installations, as well as an environmental center that explains Glenstone's sustainable upkeep practices.\n\nIn a positive review for The Washington Post in 2018, Philip Kennicott wrote that Glenstone is a \"must-see\" museum and that its creators successfully \"integrate art, architecture, and landscape.\" Referring to the natural setting of the museum, he wrote that \"everything is quietly spectacular, with curated views to the outdoors that present nature as visual haiku.\" Kennicott tempered his review by mentioning that the museum's distinctive architecture and layout continually confront visitors with \"strange visions\" that will make it \"interesting to see how it is received\".\n\nKriston Capps of Washington City Paper called Glenstone's 2018 expansion \"successful\" and \"enchanting\", with a \"sublime\" viewing experience. He wrote that the museum's collection excels in its focus around conventional paintings, sculptures, and installations, but excludes more modern media, such as video or performance art. With respect to this \"conservative\" focus, Capps wrote, \"Glenstone is not promoting equity, addressing inequality, or solving accessibility — not yet anyhow.\"\n"}
{"id": "31258467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31258467", "title": "Hidden Terrors", "text": "Hidden Terrors\n\nHidden Terrors: The Truth About U.S. Police Operations in Latin America is a 1978 book about American foreign policy in Brazil and Uruguay in the 1960s and early 1970s by the journalist A. J. Langguth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18941209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18941209", "title": "Index of Jordan-related articles", "text": "Index of Jordan-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Jordan include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27155900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155900", "title": "International Society for Environmental Ethics", "text": "International Society for Environmental Ethics\n\nSince 1990, The International Society of Environmental Ethics (ISEE) has striven to advance research and education in the field of environmental ethics and philosophy, and to promote appropriate human use, respect, conservation, preservation, and understanding of the natural world. In conjunction with the International Association for Environmental Philosophy (IAEP) and sponsorship from the Center for Environmental Philosophy, the society hosts an annual joint ISEE-IAEP conference each summer. It also has regular sessions at the three divisional conferences of the American Philosophical Association and publishes the \"ISEE Newsletter\".\n\nISEE was an official observer NGO at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, June 1992. Holmes Rolston and J. Baird Callicott were the delegates. ISEE participated in the United Nations Conference on Ethical Issues in Agenda 21, January 1994, at the United Nations in New York.\n\nISEE maintains an extensive website and it sponsors the largest bibliography in the world on environmental ethics, the Online Bibliography of Environmental Thought (OBET), with over 16,000 entries. It publishes a newsletter three times a year, with newsletters from the past twenty years available at the organization's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "7662799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7662799", "title": "Jayadeva birth controversy", "text": "Jayadeva birth controversy\n\nThe birthplace of the great twelfth-century poet Jayadeva has been disputed, with the neighboring states of Odisha and Bengal in eastern India staking a claim. This had led to a bitter feud between people on both sides that lasted for over a century. The issue is still debated by scholars.\n\nProtagonists of the Odia viewpoint point out that all of Jayadeva's composition took place when the poet was in Puri, supporting the idea that he must have lived in Puri for most, if not all of his life. Archaeological discoveries in Odisha establish Jayadeva's extended presence in Odisha. There also exists a village called \"Kenduli Sasan\" in Odisha where the Hindu deity Krishna, who was also the main theme in Jayadeva's works, has traditionally been worshipped as the main god. Coincidentally, the inhabitants of that village also worship Jayadeva. A \"Sasan\" is a name for villages that traditionally were centers of Brahmin scholarly activity in Odisha, and Jayadeva himself was a Brahmin.\n\nFurthermore, researchers opine that Jayadeva is among the central-most figures in Odia culture. Jayadeva's works, they observe, have spread to southern India, but are rare in neighboring Bengal. It has been pointed out that the Gita Govinda's influence outside Odisha is most felt in the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, where verses of the poet's work have been incorporated into the Kuchipudi, Kathakali and Bharatanatyam classical dance forms respectively. It is Jayadeva's ashtapadis that are sung in dance performances of Odissi, the classical dance of Odisha. Odia bhajans (devotional songs) and traditional Odissi Music are based on ragas and talas specified by Jayadeva's hymns. Jayadeva was a devotee of Krishna, and Krishna in the form of Jagannath is the central deity of Odisha, whereas the female deity Durga is prominent in Bengal. The Gita Govinda composed by Jayadeva is one of the popular themes in the traditional \"patachitra\" paintings of Odisha. In stark contrast, according to Thomas Donaldson, an American specialist on Indian art history, Jayadeva's ragas do not match the lyrical patterns of Bengal, which unlike Odisha, does not even possess a classical vocal tradition. The lack of correlation between Bengali traditional music and the compositions of Jayadeva were independently observed in Barbara Stoler Miller's book, Love Song of the Dark Lord. Additionally, a highly Sanskritized and sophisticated classical culture had been firmly entrenched in Odisha during that period, while neighboring Bengal only had a folk based culture until recent times.\n\nSupporters of Odisha as his birthplace, including the Odisha state government, argue that the archaeological records, including temple inscriptions, palm manuscripts and lithographs of that era have revealed the poet's Odia origin. The worship of the Hindu deity, Krishna, in the form of Jagannath was widespread in Odisha during Jayadeva's birth. On the other hand, they argue that there is no archaeological evidence of such worship in Bengal until the arrival of Chaitanya, which was over three centuries after the era of Jayadeva. Inscription at the \"Lingaraj\" temple in Bhubaneswar tells us that Jayadeva had been a member of the teaching faculty of the school at \"Srikurmapataka\", near Puri in Odisha. The inscriptions, that refer to \"Sadhu Pradhan Jayadeva\" were carved by the Odisha monarch of that period. Later discoveries of inscriptions at the \"Madhukeswar\" and \"Simhachal\" temples, also in Odisha, are believed to establish the linkage between Jayadeva and the dancing families of \"Kurmapataka\", who held sway during the reign of the Odishian monarch \"Chodagangadeva\".\n\nFurthermore, scholars maintain that accounts by numerous medieval authors, such as \"Chandra Dutta\" of Mithila and \"Navaji\" of Gwalior supports Odisha as the poet's birthplace. The poet \"Mahipati\" of Maharashtra writes in his book \"Bhakti Bijaya\", that Jayadeva's native village was very close to Puri. The Assamese text, \"Sampradaya Kula Dipak\" as well as the Telugu text, \"Sanskruta Kabi Jivani\", contain elaborate descriptions of the poet's birth taking place near the Jagannath Dham in Utkala (Odisha). Another book, \"Vaishnava Leelamruta\" by \"Madhaba Patnaik\" who lived in the sixteenth century and was contemporaneous to Chaitanya, clearly mentions that the poet was born near Puri.\n\nSome further details about Jayadeva have been garnered from Madhaba Patnaik's book. It gives a clear account of Chaitanya's visit to Puri. He mentions that Chaitanya paid a visit to Kenduli Sasan near Puri to pay homage to Jayadeva and to chant passages from the Gita Govinda. The book mentions that Kenduli Sasan was in fact the birthplace of the illustrious poet. Madhava Patnaik's book also gives an account of Jayadeva's early life from the legends around Puri. It mentions Jayadeva as excelling in the \"Shastras\" and the \"Puranas\" (sacred Hindu texts) from early childhood.\n\nHistorians now suggest that some of the poet's own compositions in Odia unequivocally support the idea that Jayadeva belonged to Puri, Odisha. Jayadeva mentions his birthplace as \"Kendubilva by the sea\" (\"\"Kendubilva Samudra Sambhava\") in his 7th \"Ashtapadi\", and Birbhum, unlike Puri, does not abut on the sea. Jayadeva used to bathe each morning in the banks of a river, mentions the book \"Bhaktamala\". A. K. Tripathy, an eminent scholar on Jayadeva, and P. C. Tripathy point out that the poet could never have walked daily to the river \"Ajeya\" which is 36 miles away from the Bengali village, unlike the \"Prachi\" river upon whose banks is situated the Kenduli village near Puri. Jayadeva's hymns refer to the ocean using the Sanskrit word \"Mahodadhi\"\", which is a typical name given to the sea in Puri. None of Jayadeva's compositions remotely suggest that he ever served in the court of any monarch. Besides, Lakshman Sena ruled Birbhum between 1179 AD and 1185 AD, that was about a century after the birth of Jayadeva.\n\nA few earlier accounts by Bengali writers had linked Jayadeva to the famous king of Bengal Lakshman Sen, the fourth ruler of the Sena dynasty and the last Hindu ruler of unified Bengal.\nThese views originated from a single Bengali book, \"Jayadeva Charita\" authored by Odia poet called \"Banamali Das\", then subsequently disseminated by Bengali historians. The book was written in 1803 when little was known about the poet's life. Since this was the only published source of information then, it eventually came to be accepted that Jayadeva may have been born in Bengal. This idea was further propagated in 1906 through an article by a certain M. M. Chakrobarty where he mentioned that the great poet belonged to Bengal in the \"Asiatic Society of Bengal\". Since Jayadeva mentions the village of \"Kendubilva\" as his birthplace, a location in Birbhum, where a traditional Baul festival is held each year, was identified to have been the original \"Kenduli\" village of Jayadeva. Under the assumption that the illustrious poet was born there, that festival too became associated with Jayadeva. A nearby village acquired the sobriquet of \"Jayadeva Kenduli\" and became a tourist attraction, and the Baul festival was renamed as \"Jayadeva Mela\"\nJayadeva lived for a long time in Navadwip during the reign of the king of Bengal, Lakshman Sen, making his home not far from the king's palace. At that time, the king's chief scholar was Govardhan Acharya. According to Ashutosh Deb's Bengali dictionary, Jayadeva was Lakshman Sen's court poet.\nShrila Bhaktivinoda Thakur writes in his Navadvipa-dhama-mahatmya that Lakshman Sen was delighted when he heard Jayadeva's hymn to the ten incarnations, the Dasavatara-stotra. When Govardhan Acharya notified the king that it was Jayadeva who had composed the hymn, he became desirous to meet the poet. He went incognito to Jayadeva's house and when he saw him, he noticed that Jayadeva possessed all the characteristics of a great and powerful spiritual personality. In spite of having originated centuries later during the time of Chaitanya. Also The Krishna worshipping was prevailing in Bengal from long time before Sri Chaitanya.In the Gaudiya Vaishnava Abhidhana, it is stated that Jayadeva found his Radha Madhava Deities in this river's waters. It is also stated there that he used to rest and worship at the Temple of Shiva known as Kusheshwar, which is also on the banks of the Ajaya River.\n\nSince Jayadeva's composition, including the Gita Govinda clearly were composed in Puri in Odisha, Bengali historians who supported the idea that Jayadeva must have been from that state, went on to explain that the poet eventually settled in Puri in that state where he began composing poetry.\n\nIn spite of Jayadeva's proven birthplace in Kenduli Sasan, near Puri in Odisha, the April 16, 2007 episode of the popular Indian TV game show \"Kaun Banega Crorepati\" (KBC III) mentioned Jayadeva as the court poet of king Lakshmanasena of Bengal. This triggered an immediate volley of protests by the culture-aware people of Odisha. Shah Rukh Khan, the game show's host was denounced for spreading false information. The government of Odisha has also demanded an apology from \"Kaun Banega Crorepati\" as it claims that the game show \"mutilated historical facts\" and \"hurt the feelings of the people of Odisha\". The Jayadeva Foundation Trust launched a protest against the TV show. Some scholars have expressed concern over the false depiction of Jayadeva's origin by Kaun Banega Crorepati, which they call a \"historical humbug\".\n\nIn July 2009, the government of India's Department of Posts has decided to release 11 stamps in Bhubaneswar to commemorate the birth of Jayadeva. One stamp depicts the poet himself, while the other ten show the 10 incarnations of Vishnu, or Dasavatara, that the poet popularized in his epic poem, the Gita Govinda. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik unveiled the stamps at a special function in Jayadev Bhawan. The stamps are in the denomination of Rs 5. A total of 800,000 stamps were released for sale in Odisha.\n\n\nOdisha Stamps\n"}
{"id": "47018877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47018877", "title": "Kalpong River", "text": "Kalpong River\n\nKalpong River is a river in the North Andaman islands in The Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It originates from the saddle peak. The Kalpong River traverses in the northward direction for a length of about 35 kilometres before it joins the Aerial Bay Creek on the east coast near Diglipur. Kalpong Hydroelectric project having capacity of 5.25 MW, the first hydro electric project in North Andaman is commissioned on the river.The project is expected to generate 14.83 million units of electricity annually.\n"}
{"id": "23485510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23485510", "title": "Khao Nom Sao", "text": "Khao Nom Sao\n\nKhao Nom Sao (เขานมสาว), \"female breast mountain\", is a land feature located in Ranong Province, Thailand.\n\nKhao Nom Sao is the highest summit of a rugged mountain massif that stretches roughly from north to south in the Kra Isthmus.\nThis mountain range represents an important catchment area for many rivers of the Ranong and Chumphon provinces, forming a natural border between both provinces. Khao Daen and Khao Huai Siad, are other prominent peaks of the chain, which is part of the wider Tenasserim Hills.\n\nThis mountain is included in the Namtok Ngao National Park (อุทยานแห่งชาติน้ำตกหงาว) and there are hiking trails that allow to enjoy the surrounding scenery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36049376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36049376", "title": "Land reclamation in Monaco", "text": "Land reclamation in Monaco\n\nLand reclamation is done in Monaco because land is very scarce, as the nation is comparatively tiny, at 0.78 mi² (2.02 km²). To solve this problem and continue economic development, for years the country has been adding to its total land area by reclaiming land from the sea.\n\nThe entire district of Fontvieille was constructed on land reclaimed from the sea in the 1970s. It is the newest of the four traditional quartiers (districts) in the principality of Monaco, and one of ten Wards for modern administrative purposes. It is located in the western part of Monaco.\n\nLand has also been added to areas of La Condamine and Larvotto/Bas Moulins.\n\nPrince Albert's father, Rainier III, was known as the \"Builder Prince\". In an attempt to further develop the economy of Monaco, he first supported the idea of land reclamation. Since it was impossible to extend into France, the only solution was to reclaim land from the sea. First, the Larvotto beach district was created in the early 1960s, then the Fontvieille industrial area, increasing the principality's surface area by approximately 20 percent. More recently, Port Hercules has been extended to welcome larger cruise ships on one side, and to provide land for a new Yacht Club on the other.\n\nPrince Albert II is currently planning to reclaim even more land. He intends to build into the Mediterranean to create a new area about 5 hectares (12.5 acres) in size. The new district will extend from the Fontvieille district at the western foot of the Rock of Monaco, where Monaco's palace and historic centre are situated. The project will cost an estimated €11 billion. It was suspended in 2009 due to the global financial crisis and the prince's concerns regarding the marine environment. However, the project was resumed in 2010 and is expected to be completed by 2014.\n\nMonaco's coastline on the Mediterranean is already a fragile and vulnerable environment. Any further land reclamation projects threaten to disturb or damage the coastal ecosystem. Monaco's leaders have approached the prospect of further land reclamation with caution and have stated that new projects would have to meet strict environmental standards to limit damage to flora and wildlife. Due to the concerns that land reclamation could potentially damage local marine ecosystems, Prince Albert II has insisted the entire expansion be placed on stilts, like an oil rig, in order to disturb the sea floor as little as possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "29378217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29378217", "title": "Lisbon Naval Base", "text": "Lisbon Naval Base\n\nThe Lisbon Naval Base (Portuguese: \"Base Naval de Lisboa\"), is the main installation and operational base of the Portuguese Navy. Being located at the former Royal Estate of Alfeite on the south bank of the Tagus river's huge estuary, near the city of Almada, the installation is sometimes referred to as the Alfeite Naval Base.\n\nMost of the Portuguese Naval fleet ships are based at Alfeite, as well as many of its administrative, training and support services. Within its perimeter are also located the Naval School, the Naval Technologies School, the Alfeite Arsenal, the Marine corps Base and other Portuguese Navy units. \n\nThe Lisbon Naval Base is an administrative entity that – besides the main naval station at Alfeite – manages several other smaller naval facilities in the region.\n\nLisbon and the neighbor Tagus estuary has always been the largest and most important naval base of Portugal, since the 12th century. During the Age of Discovery, in the 15th and 16th centuries, Lisbon and the Tagus became the major naval base in the World. It was from this base, that Vasco da Gama set out to discover the sea route to India.\n\nUntil after World War I, in reality there was not a single naval base, but a series of smaller bases located at various points of both banks of the Tagus. Among others, in the early 20th century, there was the Lisbon Navy Arsenal, the Doca de Belém submarine base, the Bom Sucesso seaplane base, the Vila Franca de Xira destroyer base, the Vale do Zebro torpedo boat base, the Alcântara Naval Barracks and the Doca da Marinha naval quay. \n\nIn the late 19th century, the idea of building a new naval arsenal at the site of the Royal Estate of Alfeite arose. Several senior naval officers also began to advocate the idea of concentrating the several Navy facilities in Lisbon and the Tagus, at a single location near the future new arsenal. \n\nConstruction of the new naval arsenal began in 1928 and was completed in 1937. Considered one of the largest and best equipped installations of its kind, the Alfeite Arsenal started full operation in 1938. A large naval complex – known as \"the city of the Navy\" – was built concurrently, to accommodate most of the ships, personnel and services of the Portuguese Navy. These were successively transferred to Alfeite up until the 1950s.\n\nOn 3 December 1958, the \" Intendência de Marinha do Alfeite\" {Naval Administration Headquarters at Alfeite} became the Lisbon Naval Base.\n"}
{"id": "8098086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8098086", "title": "List of Falkland Islands placenames", "text": "List of Falkland Islands placenames\n\nThis is a list of English and Spanish language placenames in the Falkland Islands. Most of the Spanish language names are quite different in origin to their English equivalents, and many have religious resonances. Some names were given by the Spanish \"conquistadores\", while others were given later by the Argentine government.\n\nThe Spanish names are almost never used by residents of the islands themselves, and some, such as Malvinas and Puerto Argentino, may be considered offensive by them due to their association with the 1982 invasion of the Falkland Islands. Under a declaration issued jointly following the 1999 agreement lifting travel restrictions to the islands, Argentina undertook to review the Argentine place names for Falkland Island locations, imposed under decree by General Galtieri. However, to date, Argentina still continues to use these placenames to the frustration of the islanders. Many are not generally in use as Spanish names, rather they are names conferred by an Argentine Government committee where there is no Spanish language equivalent.\n\nThe Falkland Islands take their name from the Falkland Sound, a strait separating the archipelago's two main islands. The name \"Falkland\" was applied to the channel by John Strong, captain of an English expedition, which landed on the islands in 1690. Strong named the strait in honour of Anthony Cary, 5th Viscount of Falkland, the Treasurer of the Navy who sponsored their journey. The Viscount's title originates from the town of Falkland, Scotland, whose name comes from \"folkland\" (land held by folk-right). The name was not applied to the islands until 1765, when British captain John Byron of the Royal Navy, claimed them for King George III as \"Falkland's Islands\". The term \"Falklands\" is a standard abbreviation used to refer to the islands.\n\nThe Spanish name for the archipelago, \"Islas Malvinas\", derives from the French \"Îles Malouines\" — the name given to the islands by French explorer Louis-Antoine de Bougainville in 1764. Bougainville, who founded the islands' first settlement, named the area after the port of Saint-Malo (the point of departure for his ships and colonists). The port, located in the Brittany region of western France, was in turn named after St. Malo (or Maclou), the Christian evangelist who founded the city.\n\nAt the twentieth session of the United Nations General Assembly, the Fourth Committee determined that, in all languages other than Spanish, all UN documentation would designate the territory as \"Falkland Islands (Malvinas)\". In Spanish, the territory was designated as \"Islas Malvinas (Falkland Islands)\". The nomenclature used by the United Nations for statistical processing purposes is \"Falkland Islands (Malvinas)\".\n\nA few names have the same form in both English and Spanish; for example Darwin, San Carlos, Salvador and Rincon Grande.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "718870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718870", "title": "List of Prime Ministers of Djibouti", "text": "List of Prime Ministers of Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of Prime Ministers of Djibouti. Since the establishment of the office of Prime Minister in 1977, there have been 6 official prime ministers. The Prime Minister is the head of government of Djibouti. The current Prime Minister is Abdoulkader Kamil Mohamed, since 2013.\n\nThe list also includes Presidents of the Government Council of French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, which acted as heads of government of the area of present-day Djibouti between 1967 and 1977, before the proclamation of independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39051455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39051455", "title": "List of Walt Disney Animation Studios films", "text": "List of Walt Disney Animation Studios films\n\nThis is a list of films from Walt Disney Animation Studios, an American animation studio headquartered in Burbank, California. It creates animated feature films and is owned by The Walt Disney Company. The studio has produced 57 feature films, beginning with \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937)—one of the first full-length animated feature films and the first one made in the United States—and most recently \"Ralph Breaks the Internet\" (2018). Four feature films are in development, with \"Frozen 2\" on November 22, 2019, and three untitled films set to be released on November 25, 2020, November 24, 2021 and November 23, 2022.\n\nThe filmography, after decades of disputes, was made official in a celebratory video on 23 November 2010, when \"Tangled\" was presented as 50th Disney Classic.\n\n"}
{"id": "41361206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41361206", "title": "List of companies based in Greater Copenhagen", "text": "List of companies based in Greater Copenhagen\n\nThis is a list of major companies based in metropolitan Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40411548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40411548", "title": "List of monuments in Metropolis 10, Kathmandu", "text": "List of monuments in Metropolis 10, Kathmandu\n\nThis is a list of Monuments in Kathmandu Metropolis -10, officially recognized by and available through the website of the Department of Archaeology, Nepal in the Kathmandu District. Kathmandu is a historically rich city and Hindu temples are the main attraction of this Metropolis. The monument list below is populated using the authentic information at Department of Archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "54147127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54147127", "title": "List of predecessors of sovereign states in North America", "text": "List of predecessors of sovereign states in North America\n\nThis is a list of all present sovereign states in North America and their predecessors. The division between North and South America is unclear, generally viewed as lying somewhere in the Isthmus of Panama, however, the Caribbean Islands, Central America including the whole of Panama is considered to be part of North America as its southernmost nation. The continent was colonized by the Europeans: Mainly by the Spaniards, the French, the English and the Dutch. United States of America gained its independence in American Revolutionary War; Most of nations in Central America gained independence in the early 19th century; Canada and many other island countries in the Caribbean Sea (most of them were British colonies) gained their independence in 20th century. Today, North America consists of twenty-two sovereign states with common government system being some form of presidential republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "52927109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52927109", "title": "List of presidential trips made by Donald Trump during 2017", "text": "List of presidential trips made by Donald Trump during 2017\n\nThis is a list of presidential trips made by Donald Trump during 2017, the first year of his presidency as the 45th President of the United States.\n\nThis list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Also excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President. International trips are included. \nThe number of visits per state or territory where he traveled are:\n\n"}
{"id": "409702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409702", "title": "List of reportedly haunted locations", "text": "List of reportedly haunted locations\n\nThis is a list of reportedly haunted locations throughout the world, that are said to be haunted by ghosts or other supernatural beings, including demons. Reports of haunted locations are part of ghostlore, which is a form of folklore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral sites in Canada are reputedly haunted, including Citadel Hill (Fort George) in Halifax.\n\nSeveral sites in China are reputedly haunted, including Chaonei No. 81, an abandoned mansion in Beijing's Chaoyangmen neighborhood, and the Wukang Mansion, formerly known as the \"Normandie Apartment\", in Shanghai (named after the World War I battleship Normandie).\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral sites in France are reputedly haunted, including the Château de Brissac, the Château de Trécesson in Brittany, the Catacombs and Cemetery of Père Lachaise in Paris, Mont Saint-Michel, and the Château de Châteaubriant in western France.\n\n\n\nSeveral sites in India are reported to be haunted, including South Park Street Cemetery in West Bengal on Park Street, Kolkata, and Morgan House, a colonial-era mansion in Kalimpong that is considered to be one of the most haunted locations in India.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral sites in Mexico are reputedly haunted, including the Palace of the Inquisition and the Plaza de las Tres Culturas in the City of Mexico, Hospicio Cabañas in Guadalajara, Mapimí Silent Zone in the state of Durango, Chautla Hacienda in Puebla, and the ancient Mayan city of Chichen Itza on the Yucatán Peninsula.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral sites in the Philippine Islands are reputedly haunted, including the historic Fort Santiago in Manila, the abandoned Diplomat Hotel in the northern city of Baguio, and Silliman University in Dumaguete of the Visayan Islands.\n\n\nSeveral sites in Romania are reputedly haunted, including historic Bánffy Castle in Bonțida and the Hoia Forest.\n\n\nSeveral locations in South Africa are reputedly haunted, including the Erasmus Castle in Pretoria and the Old Presidency in Bloemfontein.\n\n\n\n\n\nMany sites in Thailand are reputedly haunted, including Government House of Thailand, Phitsanulok Mansion, Lumphini Park, Sathorn Unique Tower (Bangkok), Ayutthaya Historical Park, and Mahidol University in central, or Lipe in southern etc.\n\n\nMany sites in the UK are reputedly haunted, including the Tower of London, 50 Berkeley Square (London), Belgrave Hall, Arundel Castle, and Bruce Castle in England, and Ardrossan Castle, Fyvie Castle, Glamis Castle, and Stirling Castle in Scotland.\n\nMany sites in the United States are reputedly haunted, including Dudleytown in Connecticut, the Cherry Hill Estate and 112 Ocean Avenue House, (a.k.a. the Amityville Horror House) in New York, Cliveden Manor, the First Bank of the United States, Fort Mifflin, Library Hall, Pennsylvania Hospital, and Powel House in Pennsylvania, the Octagon House (1801) and the White House in the District of Columbia,\nand El Adobe de Capistrano in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "46869673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46869673", "title": "List of reportedly haunted locations in France", "text": "List of reportedly haunted locations in France\n\nThere are numerous reportedly haunted locations in France. This list alphabetizes by region (including overseas regions and collectivities) these places and then alphabetically within each region (including overseas regions and collectivities).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8357441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8357441", "title": "List of social nudity places in North America", "text": "List of social nudity places in North America\n\nThis is a list of places where social nudity is practised in North America for recreation. As a philosophy, this practice is commonly referred to as naturism; the International Naturist Federation has affiliates in over 30 countries. However, most who indulge in this activity are likely not formal members of a naturist organization. This listing includes free beaches (clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches) and some private resorts.\n\nNude bathing on beaches is illegal in Anguilla.\n\n\n\nThough Belizeans don't particularly frown on nudity, there are no official nude beaches in Belize. However, there are dozens of deserted out islands with beaches perfect for sunbathing in the buff.\n\nBritish Columbia has thousands of kilometres of coastline and thousands of lakes, as well as millions of hectares of natural parks and undeveloped land. The vast majority of these areas are mostly uninhabited and nude swimming and sunbathing can be done with little concern for disturbing others. In the populated areas, particularly the Lower Mainland, Greater Victoria, and the Okanagan, nudity is generally practiced only in certain established or isolated locations (usually beaches) and on private properties.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are no officially recognized nude beaches in the province, but there are six spots that have secluded areas where nudity is accepted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following beaches on in the French Antilles.\n\n\n\nTopless is common on most beaches.\nNudity is encountered at:\n\n\n\n\nBeach nudity in Playa Zipolite is legal. Elsewhere, Mexican law condemns only \"immorality\" and thus the issue ends up being a matter of the judge's criteria. \n\n\n\n\n\nOn Aruba island, two beaches allow nudity, especially in late afternoon and dawn:\n\n\n\nCuraçao has no legal nude beaches at this time.\n\nThe island of St Martin has a Dutch side, Sint Maarten, and a French side Saint Martin. Orient Bay on the French side has a nudist section. Club Orient, a family-friendly clothing-optional beach resort, is on Orient Bay.\n\n\n\n\nAdditional and up-to-date information on public and private locations may be obtained on the web sites of the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR) and The Naturist Society (TNS).\n\nBluff Creek Falls Campground Steele Alabama\n\nPublic nudity is illegal in Alaska (no social places).\n\nPublic nudity is illegal in Arizona. However, Verde Hot Springs (springs only – not the campground) is traditionally nude. There are a few clothing-optional gay resorts and traditional clothing optional B&B's in Phoenix. Tucson's Upper Tanque Verde Creek is a popular social nudity spot. The lower trail leads to a series of pools and waterfalls along Tanque Verde Creek. The Upper Trail is a quick, 10-minute hike to a well-liked swimming and sunning spot used by sunbathers of both sexes clothed and unclothed.\n\n\n2017 : Recently opened last year in Phoenix, Arizona is the Arizona Sunburst Inn, which caters to males only and, unlike Royal Villa, does not offer a day pass. Rooms are on a strictly rental basis and nudity is accepted poolside. Also on, and/or inside the property.\n\nPublic nudity is illegal in Arkansas in the presence of the opposite sex; however, same-sex nudity is legal in Arkansas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are no legal public nude parks, beaches or resorts in Iowa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to a 1992 Court of Appeals ruling (People v. Santorelli et al.) women may be topless anywhere in the state of New York for non-commercial purposes. (A concurring minority opinion reached the constitutional, i.e., equal rights issue, but the majority decision did not.)\n\nPublic nudity is considered indecent exposure in North Carolina under * § 14-190.9 which states that\n\nSocial nudity places in North Carolina include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVermont state law prohibits disrobing in public but does not prohibit public nudity, so nudity is allowed anywhere that it has not been specifically prohibited by a city or town. The city of Burlington, for example, has prohibited nudity in public parks, but nudity is allowed anywhere else in the city. Specific locations at which individuals practice social nudity include:\n\n\n\nWhile Seattle is known for its nude cyclists, clothing-optional activity in the city and out in public and out in private goes back much farther, with nude and top-free use of areas of Magnuson Park, the Washington Park Arboretum, Discovery Park, Denny-Blaine Park and Secret Beach (a name given to a park that local users wish to keep a secret). Parks spokeswoman Dewey Potter said the parks department does not consider simply being naked illegal, and she doesn't remember any complaints during the 13 years she's worked for the city about nudity in the parks.\n\nWhile there is nothing in the Seattle Municipal Code about nudity and expectations of behavior, Washington State does have a law protecting against obscene behavior while being fully or partially naked. The act of breastfeeding or expressing breast milk is not indecent exposure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39653893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39653893", "title": "List of years in Armenia", "text": "List of years in Armenia\n\nThis is a list of years in Armenia. See also the timeline of Armenian history. For only articles about years in Armenia that have been written, see .\n\n"}
{"id": "36227514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36227514", "title": "Malay world", "text": "Malay world\n\nThe Malay world or Malay realm (Malay: \"Dunia Melayu\" or \"Alam Melayu\", Jawi: دنيا ملايو or عالم ملايو) is a concept or an expression that has been utilised by different authors and groups over time to denote several different notions, derived from varied interpretations of Malayness, either as a racial category, as a linguistic group, or as a political-cultural group. The use of the term 'Malay' in much of the conceptualisation is largely based on the prevalent Malay cultural influence, manifested in particular through the spread of Malay language in Southeast Asia as observed by different colonial powers during the Age of Discovery.\n\nThe concept in its broadest territorial stretch may apply to a region synonymous with Austronesia, homeland to the Austronesian peoples, that extends from Easter Island in the east to Madagascar in the west. Such description has its origin in the introduction of the term Malay race in the late 18th century that has been popularised by the orientalists to describe the Austronesian peoples. In a narrower sense, the Malay world has been used as a Sprachraum, referring to the Malay-speaking countries and territories of Southeast Asia, where different standards of Malay are the national languages, or a variety of it is an important minority language. The term in this sense encompasses Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Southern Thailand, and is sometimes used interchangeably with the concepts of 'Malay Archipelago' and 'Nusantara'.\n\nAlternatively, modern scholars correct these extended notions of the Malay world, defining it as a political and cultural area instead. In this context, the Malay world is reduced to a region that is homeland to the Malay people, historically ruled by different Malay sultanates, where various Malay dialects and cultural values are predominant. This area includes the Malay Peninsula, the coastal areas of Sumatra and Borneo, and the smaller islands in between.\n\nThe most notable use of the concept was in the early 20th century, embraced in an irredentist fashion, by the Malay nationalists in the form of 'Greater Malaya' (\"Melayu Raya\"), as an aspiration for the \"natural\" or desired borders of a modern nation for the Malay race.\n\nTerritorial identification of Malay is of ancient origin. Various foreign and local records show that \"Melayu\" (Malay) and its similar sounding variants appear to apply as an old toponym to the ancient Straits of Malacca region in general. In the 15th century, the term gradually developed into an ethnonym throughout the consolidation of Melaka Sultanate as a regional power. Tome Pires, an apothecary who stayed in Melaka from 1512 to 1515, after the Portuguese conquest, explained how the former Melaka classified merchants calling its port into four groups, of which the Malays or \"Melayu\" did not appear in the list, suggesting they were not then regarded as category outside the Melaka itself.\n\nAnother term, \"Malayos\" or the 'Sea of Malayu' was espoused by the Portuguese historian, Manuel Godinho de Erédia to describe areas under Melakan dominance. The area covers the Andaman Sea in the north, the entire Straits of Malacca in the centre, a part of Sunda Strait in the south and the western South China Sea in the east. It was generally described as a Muslim centre of international trade, with Malay language as its \"lingua franca\". Erédia's description indicates that \"Malayos\" was a geo-religio-sociocultural concept, a concept of geographical unity characterised by the common religious belief and cultural features.\n\nAn identical term, \"Tanah Melayu\" (literally 'Malay land') is found in various Malay texts, of which the oldest are dating back to the early 17th century. It is frequently mentioned in the \"Hikayat Hang Tuah\", a well known classical work that began as oral tales associated with the legendary heroes of Melaka Sultanate. \"Tanah Melayu\" in the text is consistently employed to refer to the area under Melakan dominance. In the early 16th century, Tomé Pires coins an almost similar term, \"Terra de Tana Malaio\" for the southeastern part of Sumatra, where the deposed Sultan of Melaka, Mahmud Shah established his exiled government.\n\nThe application of \"Tanah Melayu\" to the Malay Peninsula entered into the European authorship, when Marsden and Crawfurd noted it in their historical works published in 1811 and 1820 respectively. Another important term, the \"Malaya\", an English term for the Peninsula, was already used in English writings from the early 18th century.\n\nDue to the lack of available research, it is difficult to trace the development of the concept of the Malay world as a term which later refers to the Archipelago. However, above early territorial identifications are believed to have formed an important antecedent for the future conceptualisation of the Malay world.\n\nThe broader concept of Malay world has its origin from the conceptualisation of Malay as a race by the German scientist Johann Friedrich Blumenbach. Blumenbach identified 'Malay' as a subcategory of both the Ethiopid and Mongoloid races, and expanded the term to include the native inhabitants of the Marianas, the Philippines, the Malukus, Sundas, Indochina, as well as Pacific Islands like the Tahitians. This broad conception of Malay was largely derived from the strong presence of Malay cultural influence, particularly in linguistic, throughout the Southeast Asia at the time of European colonisation. Malay language was one aspect of the prestige of the Malay sultanates, and considered as a language of the learned in Southeast Asia in the 17th and 18th century comments. An 18th century European account even suggests that one is not considered a very broadly educated man in the east, if he don't understand Malay.\n\nThe popularisation of Malay as a racial category was in essence a colonial product, the significant role of which played by the Spanish since the 17th century and that of the British since the 18th century in identifying the Archipelago as the Malay world. The view held by Thomas Stamford Raffles for example, had a significant influence on English-speakers, lasting to the present day. He should probably be regarded as the most important voice in projecting the idea of a 'Malay' race or nation, not limited to the traditional Raja-Raja Melayu or even their supporters, but embracing a large if unspecified part of the Archipelago. William Marsden, another British \"merchant-scientist,\" classified the inhabitants of the Archipelago as Malays, based on religion (Islam), language (Malay) and origin.\n\nIn the late 19th century, an important innovation was introduced into the political vocabulary of the Malay language. The word \"kerajaan\", which had in older times usually meant \"king,\" \"royalty\" and \"kingdom,\" began to be defined as \"government\". In the same period, the term \"negeri\" was increasingly being used as a word equivalent to \"state,\" in contrast to its earlier use in court texts more in the sense of a 'settlement' than of a political entity. With growing frequency, publications of the 1870s and 1880s employed the term to refer either to individual Malay sultanates or any political state in the world beyond the Malay territories.\n\nBritish historian, Wilkinson, prefers the term \"state\" to refer to an administrative or territorial unit in the Malay Peninsula in his time, while he uses the word \"kingdom\" or \"sultanate\" for a Malay polity of older times. While Wilkinson often uses \"the Peninsula\" or \"the Malay Peninsula,\" he also calls the Peninsula \"Malaya.\" His use of the word \"Malaya\" occasionally includes not merely the Peninsula under British rule but also its other parts under Siamese rule. In referring to the Archipelago, Wilkinson not only uses \"the Archipelago\" or \"the Indian Archipelago,\" but also \"the Malay world,\" which might have more sociocultural connotations.\n\nAmong the textbooks available during colonial Malaya, Winstedt's \"Ilmu Alam Melayu\" ('Geography of the Malay world') presents the clearest picture of the territoriality of the Malay community. As expressed in the title, Winstedt attempts to cover most of the Archipelago. He describes not only the British colonies and protectorates in the Malay Peninsula and Borneo, but also the Netherlands East Indies and the Philippines. The structure of \"Ilmu Alam Melayu\" shows the three-tiered constitution of the Malay world. The Malay world (\"Alam Melayu\") is divided into sub-regions, namely, Malaya (\"Tanah Melayu\"), the British Borneo territories, the Netherlands East Indies and the Philippines. Malaya, in turn, is made up of the Malay states (\"Negeri-Negeri Melayu\"). It is also important to note the standardization of geographical knowledge in this geography textbook. All states in the Peninsula, the main islands and areas of the Netherlands East Indies and all of the Philippines are systematically discussed through the common topics of overview, districts and towns, products, inhabitants and history. Such a systematic and comprehensive catalogue of geographical knowledge helps to convey an image of the Malay world as a territorial entity.\n\nMalay historian Abdul Hadi Haji Hassan, who cites Winstedt's textbooks in his \"Sejarah 'Alam Melayu\" ('History of the Malay world'), had much in common with Winstedt's view of the Malay world. For Abdul Hadi, too, the Malay territories are made up of the Malay states, Malaya and the Malay world. Of the 12 chapters in the three volumes of Abdul Hadi's textbook, four chapters focus on the history of the Malays in Malaya, while other chapters deal with the history of the Malays in both Malaya and other parts of the Malay world. It ought to be added that the history of each colony or state (\"negeri\") in the Straits Settlements and the Federated Malay States is explained in the fourth and the fifth volumes of the book written by another Malay historian, Buyong Adil in 1934 and 1940. Thus, both British and Malay authors conceptualised Malay territoriality in three tiers, that is, the Malay states, Malaya and the Malay world.\n\nThe standardisation of geographical knowledge and systematic quantification, served to objectify the territoriality of the Malay community. Early authors in Malaya also developed a Malaya-centric view on the subject, proclaiming Malaya or \"Tanah Melayu\" as the focal point of the Malay territories. This view reflected the substantialisation of the colonial territorial boundary and provided new objectification of space seems to have played an important role in conceiving a potential national territory. It is probable that these three territorial identities, namely, Malay states, Malaya and the Malay world had much to do with the strands of Malay nationalism.\n\nOn the one hand, in the late 1930s, Malay aristocrats and their supporters began to organize Malay state associations. For them, Malay states were the focus of territorial identity. In postwar Malaya, these state-based Malay associations were dissolved into a Malaya-based Malay political party, that is, the United Malays National Organisation. Their territorial identity was gradually shifted from Malay states to Malaya or \"Tanah Melayu\". On the other hand, in the late 1930s, some Malay non-aristocrat intellectuals formed a pan-Malay-oriented association, that is, Kesatuan Melayu Muda or Young Malay Union. As shown by its President, Ibrahim Hj Yaacob, the territorial stretch of their imagined homeland covered the Malay world or the Malay Archipelago as a whole.\n\nAlthough the extended notions of Malay world still gained widespread currency, particularly in Malaysia, Singapore and the English-speaking world, such conceptualisation is sometimes described in other terms, perceived as more 'neutral', like Nusantara, Indonesian archipelago, and Maritime Southeast Asia. New approaches have also been taken by modern authors to redefine the 'Malay world', by taking into account the historic political pattern of the region, in addition to the existing racial-linguistic spread model.\n\nIn this context, modern authors in Malay studies like Anthony Milner, Geoffrey Benjamin, and Vivienne Wee provide a narrower definition, reducing the concept into a political and cultural area. Benjamin for example, describes the concept in an historically responsive manner to refer to the areas currently or formerly falling under \"Kerajaan Melayu\" ('Malay kingdoms'), the rule of a Malay king. It does not refer to Insular Southeast Asia at large, and certainly not the Austronesian-speaking world as a whole, both of which are usages of Malay world that have crept into scholarly discourse. In this sense, the Malay world refers to various kingdoms and their attendant hinterlands that have existed or still exist along the coasts of Brunei, the east coast of Sumatra and on the Malay peninsula.\n\nThis limited conceptualisation of Malay world was also espoused by Wee. She added further, that the concept is a spatial configuration that resulted from the serial patterning of political alliances, unified by \"Sejarah Melayu\", that is a particular genealogical tree of kingship. The other, non-Malay areas would be those where the rulers did not claim to belong to this particular genealogical tree. For example, Aceh is located on the northern tip of the Sumatran mainland, yet the rulers evidently did not claim to belong to the Malay genealogical tree. And indeed Aceh is generally not regarded as part of \"Alam Melayu\". On the contrary, both the indigenous and foreign texts indicate that Aceh, similar to Java, was an historical enemy of \"Alam Melayu\". Hence to locate oneself within \"Alam Melayu\" is to claim membership in a specific network of political alliances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16294930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16294930", "title": "Metageography", "text": "Metageography\n\nMetageography is a term used by Martin W. Lewis and Kären E. Wigen's 1997 \"The Myth of Continents: A Critique of Metageography\", which analyzes metageographical constructs such as \"East\", \"West\", \"Europe\", \"Asia\", \"North\" or \"South\". which they define as \"the set of spatial structures through which people order their knowledge of the world\" Geographies, wrote one reviewer, are thus much more than just the ways in which societies are stretched across the earth's surface. They also include the \"contested, arbitrary, power-laden, and often inconsistent ways in which those structures are represented epistemologically.\"\n\nIn an interview, Martin explained: \"By 'metageography' I mean the relatively unexamined and often taken-for-granted spatial frameworks through which knowledge is organized within all fields of the social sciences and humanities.\" He added that \"the distinction between the merely geographical and the metageographical is not always clear-cut.\n\nThe term was criticized by James M. Blaut: \"the word metageography seems to have been coined by the authors as an impressive-sounding synonym for 'world cultural geography.'\" Lewis and Wigen, however, disagreed.\n\nIn 1969, Soviet geographers Gokhman, Gurevich and Saushkin wrote that \"[m]etageography is concerned with study of the common basis of geographical regularities and the potentialities of geography as a science\" and argued that many factors must be taken into account in order to define geographical entities, not simply spatial ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "4146576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4146576", "title": "Nonpoint source pollution", "text": "Nonpoint source pollution\n\nNonpoint source (NPS) pollution is a term used to describe pollution resulting from many diffuse sources, in direct contrast to point source pollution which results from a single source. Nonpoint source pollution generally results from land runoff, precipitation, atmospheric deposition, drainage, seepage, or hydrological modification (rainfall and snowmelt) where tracing pollution back to a single source is difficult.\n\nNon-point source water pollution affects a water body from sources such as polluted runoff from agricultural areas draining into a river, or wind-borne debris blowing out to sea. Non-point source air pollution affects air quality from sources such as smokestacks or car tailpipes. Although these pollutants have originated from a point source, the long-range transport ability and multiple sources of the pollutant make it a non-point source of pollution. Non-point source pollution can be contrasted with point source pollution, where discharges occur to a body of water or into the atmosphere at a single location.\n\nNPS may derive from many different sources with no specific solution may change to rectify the problem, making it difficult to regulate. Non point source water pollution is difficult to control because it comes from the everyday activities of many different people, such as lawn fertilization, applying pesticides, road construction or building construction.\n\nIt is the leading cause of water pollution in the United States today, with polluted runoff from agriculture and hydromodification the primary sources. \n\nOther significant sources of runoff include habitat modification and silviculture (forestry).\n\nContaminated stormwater washed off parking lots, roads and highways, and lawns (often containing fertilizers and pesticides) is called urban runoff. This runoff is often classified as a type of NPS pollution. Some people may also consider it a point source because many times it is channeled into municipal storm drain systems and discharged through pipes to nearby surface waters. However, not all urban runoff flows through storm drain systems before entering water bodies. Some may flow directly into water bodies, especially in developing and suburban areas. Also, unlike other types of point sources, such as industrial discharges, sewage treatment plants and other operations, pollution in urban runoff cannot be attributed to one activity or even group of activities. Therefore, because it is not caused by an easily identified and regulated activity, urban runoff pollution sources are also often treated as true non-point sources as municipalities work to abate them.\n\nSediment (loose soil) includes silt (fine particles) and suspended solids (larger particles). Sediment may enter surface waters from eroding stream banks, and from surface runoff due to improper plant cover on urban and rural land. Sediment creates turbidity (cloudiness) in water bodies, reducing the amount of light reaching lower depths, which can inhibit growth of submerged aquatic plants and consequently affect species which are dependent on them, such as fish and shellfish. High turbidity levels also inhibit drinking water purification systems.\n\nSediment can also be discharged from multiple different sources. Sources include construction sites (although these are point sources, which can be managed with erosion controls and sediment controls), agricultural fields, stream banks, and highly disturbed areas.\n\nNutrients mainly refers to inorganic matter from runoff, landfills, livestock operations and crop lands. The two primary nutrients of concern are phosphorus and nitrogen.\n\nPhosphorus is a nutrient that occurs in many forms that are bioavailable. It is notoriously over-abundant in human sewage sludge. It is a main ingredient in many fertilizers used for agriculture as well as on residential and commercial properties, and may become a limiting nutrient in freshwater systems and some estuaries. Phosphorus is most often transported to water bodies via soil erosion because many forms of phosphorus tend to be adsorbed on to soil particles. Excess amounts of phosphorus in aquatic systems (particularly freshwater lakes, reservoirs, and ponds) leads to proliferation of microscopic algae called phytoplankton. The increase of organic matter supply due to the excessive growth of the phytoplankton is called eutrophication. A common symptom of eutrophication is algae blooms that can produce unsightly surface scums, shade out beneficial types of plants, produce taste-and-odor-causing compounds, and poison the water due to toxins produced by the algae. These toxins are a particular problem in systems used for drinking water because some toxins can cause human illness and removal of the toxins is difficult and expensive. Bacterial decomposition of algal blooms consumes dissolved oxygen in the water, generating hypoxia with detrimental consequences for fish and aquatic invertebrates.\n\nNitrogen is the other key ingredient in fertilizers, and it generally becomes a pollutant in saltwater or brackish estuarine systems where nitrogen is a limiting nutrient. Similar to phosphorus in fresh-waters, excess amounts of bioavailable nitrogen in marine systems lead to eutrophication and algae blooms. Hypoxia is an increasingly common result of eutrophication in marine systems and can impact large areas of estuaries, bays, and near shore coastal waters. Each summer, hypoxic conditions form in bottom waters where the Mississippi River enters the Gulf of Mexico. During recent summers, the aereal extent of this \"dead zone\" is comparable to the area of New Jersey and has major detrimental consequences for fisheries in the region.\n\nNitrogen is most often transported by water as nitrate (NO). The nitrogen is usually added to a watershed as organic-N or ammonia (NH), so nitrogen stays attached to the soil until oxidation converts it into nitrate. Since the nitrate is generally already incorporated into the soil, the water traveling through the soil (i.e., interflow and tile drainage) is the most likely to transport it, rather than surface runoff.\n\nCompounds including heavy metals like lead, mercury, zinc, and cadmium, organics like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), fire retardants, and other substances are resistant to breakdown. These contaminants can come from a variety of sources including human sewage sludge, mining operations, vehicle emissions, fossil fuel combustion, urban runoff, industrial operations and landfills.\n\nToxic chemicals mainly include organic compounds and inorganic compounds. These compounds include pesticides like DDT, acids, and salts that have severe effects to the ecosystem and water-bodies. These compounds can threaten the health of both humans and aquatic species while being resistant to environmental breakdown, thus allowing them to persist in the environment. These toxic chemicals could come from croplands, nurseries, orchards, building sites, gardens, lawns and landfills.\n\nAcids and salts mainly are inorganic pollutants from irrigated lands, mining operations, urban runoff, industrial sites and landfills.\n\nPathogens are bacteria and viruses that can be found in water and cause diseases in humans. Typically, pathogens cause disease when they are present in public drinking water supplies. Pathogens found in contaminated runoff may include:\nColiform bacteria and fecal matter may also be detected in runoff. These bacteria are a commonly used indicator of water pollution, but not an actual cause of disease.\n\nPathogens may contaminate runoff due to poorly managed livestock operations, faulty septic systems, improper handling of pet waste, the over application of human sewage sludge, contaminated storm sewers, and sanitary sewer overflows.\n\nUrban and suburban areas are a main sources of nonpoint source pollution due to the amount of runoff that is produced due to the large amount of paved surfaces. Paved surfaces, such as asphalt and concrete are impervious to water penetrating them. Any water that is on contact with these surfaces will run off and be absorbed by the surrounding environment. These surfaces make it easier for stormwater to carry pollutants into the surrounding soil.\n\nConstruction sites tend to have disturbed soil that is easily eroded by precipitation like rain, snow, and hail. Additionally, discarded debris on the site can be carried away by runoff waters and enter the aquatic environment.\n\nTypically, in suburban areas, chemicals are used for lawn care. These chemicals can end up in runoff and enter the surrounding environment via storm drains in the city. Since the water in storm drains is not treated before flowing into surrounding water bodies, the chemicals enter the water directly.\n\nAgricultural operations account for a large percentage of all nonpoint source pollution in the United States. When large tracts of land are plowed to grow crops, it exposes and loosens soil that was once buried. This makes the exposed soil more vulnerable to erosion during rainstorms. It also can increase the amount of fertilizer and pesticides carried into nearby bodies of water.\n\nAtmospheric inputs of pollution into the air can come from multiple sources. Typically, industrial facilities, like factories, emit air pollution via a smokestack. Although this is a point source, due to the distributional nature, long-range transport, and multiple sources of the pollution, it is considered a nonpoint source. Additionally, atmospheric pollution can become water pollution, by being washed out of the atmosphere in the form of rain or snow.\n\nHighway runoff accounts for a small but widespread percentage of all nonpoint source pollution. Harned (1988) estimated that runoff loads were composed of atmospheric fallout (9%), vehicle deposition (25%) and highway maintenance materials (67%) he also estimated that about 9 percent of these loads were reentrained in the atmosphere.\n\nForestry and mining operations can have significant inputs to non-point source pollution.\n\nForestry operations reduce the number of trees in a given area, thus reducing the oxygen levels in that area as well. This action, coupled with the heavy machinery (harvesters, etc.) rolling over the soil increases the risk of erosion.\n\nActive mining operations are considered point sources, however runoff from abandoned mining operations contribute to nonpoint source pollution. In strip mining operations, the top of the mountain is removed to expose the desired ore. If this area is not properly reclaimed once the mining has finished, soil erosion can occur. Additionally, there can be chemical reactions with the air and newly exposed rock to create acidic runoff. Water that seeps out of abandoned subsurface mines can also be highly acidic. This can seep into the nearest body of water and change the pH in the aquatic environment.\n\nChemicals used for boat maintenance, like paint, solvents, and oils find their way into water through runoff. Additionally, spilling fuels or leaking fuels directly into the water from boats contribute to nonpoint source pollution. Nutrient and bacteria levels are increased by poorly maintained sanitary waste receptacles on the boat and pump-out stations.\n\nTo control non-point source pollution, many different approaches can be undertaken in both urban and suburban areas. Buffer strips provide a barrier of grass in between impervious paving material like parking lots and roads, and the closest body of water. This allows the soil to absorb any pollution before it enters the local aquatic system. Retention ponds can be built in drainage areas to create an aquatic buffer between runoff pollution and the aquatic environment. Runoff and storm water drain into the retention pond allowing for the contaminants to settle out and become trapped in the pond. The use of porous pavement allows for rain and storm water to drain into the ground beneath the pavement, reducing the amount of runoff that drains directly into the water body. Restoration methods such as constructing wetlands are also used to slow runoff as well as absorb contamination.\n\nConstruction sites typically implement simple measures to reduce pollution and runoff. Firstly, sediment or silt fences are erected around construction sites to reduce the amount of sediment and large material draining into the nearby water body. Secondly, laying grass or straw along the border of construction sites also work to reduce nonpoint source pollution.\n\nIn areas served by single-home septic systems, local government regulations can force septic system maintenance to ensure compliance with water quality standards. In Washington (state), a novel approach was developed through a creation of a \"shellfish protection district\" when either a commercial or recreational shellfish bed is downgraded because of ongoing nonpoint source pollution. The shellfish protection district is a geographic area designated by a county to protect water quality and tideland resources, and provides a mechanism to generate local funds for water quality services to control nonpoint sources of pollution. At least two shellfish protection districts in south Puget Sound have instituted septic system operation and maintenance requirements with program fees tied directly to property taxes.\n\nTo control sediment and runoff, farmers may utilize erosion controls to reduce runoff flows and retain soil on their fields. Common techniques include contour plowing, crop mulching, crop rotation, planting perennial crops or installing riparian buffers. \"Conservation tillage\" is a concept used to reduce runoff while planting a new crop. The farmer leaves some crop reside from the previous planting in the ground to help prevent runoff during the planting process.\n\nNutrients are typically applied to farmland as commercial fertilizer; animal manure; or spraying of municipal or industrial wastewater (effluent) or sludge. Nutrients may also enter runoff from crop residues, irrigation water, wildlife, and atmospheric deposition. Farmers can develop and implement nutrient management plans to reduce excess application of nutrients.\n\nTo minimize pesticide impacts, farmers may use Integrated Pest Management (IPM) techniques (which can include biological pest control) to maintain control over pests, reduce reliance on chemical pesticides, and protect water quality.\n\nWith a well-planned placement of both logging trails, also called skid trails, can reduce the amount of sediment generated. By planning the trails location as far away from the logging activity as possible as well as contouring the trails with the land, it can reduce the amount of loose sediment in the runoff. Additionally, by replanting trees on the land after logging, it provides a structure for the soil to regain stability as well as replaces the logged environment.\n\nInstalling shut off valves on fuel pumps at a marina dock can help reduce the amount of spillover into the water. Additionally, pump-out stations that are easily accessible to boaters in a marina can provide a clean place in which to dispose of sanitary waste without dumping it directly into the water. Finally, something as simple as having trash containers around a marina can prevent larger objects entering the water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "670493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670493", "title": "Parishes of Barbados", "text": "Parishes of Barbados\n\nThe country of Barbados is divided into sub-regions known as parishes. \n\nThey are legally styled as the \"Parish of (\"Parish name\") as opposed to the American naming convention with the name \"Parish\" coming after the name. The use of the term \"parish\" derives from the island's religious Anglican history under the Church of England. \n\nThis system of parish churches was based on the system that of the Church of England and was the visible expression forming the basis of the parliamentary representation in Barbados. The differing size and shape of each parish were primarily influenced by the large plantation estates of cotton, sugar cane and tobacco that existed during the colonial years of Barbados. As various chapels of ease were created during the 17th century across the island, some local churches were elevated to parish church status, leading to the formation of new parishes surrounding those freshly created vestries.\n\nBy 1629, the English settlers after landing at James Town formed six original parishes on the island which were:\n\nBy 1645, the land holding of Barbados increased and the shape of the original six were reconfigured giving way to an additional five parishes Some prior churches of the state within the existing parishes were elevated to the level of Parish Church and as a consequence they formed new parishes around those new vestries:\n\nThus Barbados was converted into the current eleven parishes of today. As was common under the British system, each Parish had a single main parishional church (or cathedral in the case of Bridgetown having been elevated to city status), which acted as a sort of capital for each parish. The parishes each held their own Local Government Councils until these were abolished in 1959, following a brief administrative districting experiment within Barbados until 1967.\n\nThe nation's capital Bridgetown, which is located within the parish of Saint Michael, may one day be made into its own district.\n\nWithin the country, travel is unrestricted to everyone in moving about from parish-to-parish. With the rise of urban sprawl and new construction projects across the country many neighbourhoods and even parishional border-lines today are ill-defined.\n\nThe eleven parishes are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55795489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55795489", "title": "Picão", "text": "Picão\n\nPicão is a settlement in the northeastern part of Príncipe Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 278 (2012 census). The settlement is located northeast of the island capital Santo António. To the northeast is Belo Monte, to the east is Praia Grande, a beach, to the south is Praia Inhame and to the west is the settlement of Aeroporto.\n"}
{"id": "140409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140409", "title": "Saint Martin", "text": "Saint Martin\n\nSaint Martin (; ) is an island in the northeast Caribbean Sea, approximately east of Puerto Rico. The island is divided roughly 60/40 between the French Republic () and the Kingdom of the Netherlands (), but the two parts are roughly equal in population. The division dates to 1648. The southern Dutch part comprises Sint Maarten and is one of four constituent countries that form the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The northern French part comprises the Collectivity of Saint Martin and is an overseas collectivity of France.\n\nOn 1 January 2009, the population of the whole island was 77,741 inhabitants, with 40,917 living on the Dutch side, and 36,824 on the French side.\n\nCollectively, the two territories are known as \"St-Martin / St Maarten\", or sometimes \"SXM\", the IATA identifier for Princess Juliana International Airport, the island's main airport. St. Martin (the French portion) received the ISO 3166-1 code MF in October 2007. The Dutch part changed in status to a country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 2010 and was given the code SX.\n\nSaint Martin has a land area of , of which is under the sovereignty of France, and under the sovereignty of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This is the only land border shared by France and the Kingdom of the Netherlands anywhere.\n\nThe main cities are Philipsburg (Dutch side) and Marigot (French side). The Dutch side is more heavily populated. The largest settlement on the entire island is Lower Prince's Quarter, on the Dutch side.\n\nThe highest hilltop is the Pic Paradis () in the centre of a hill chain on the French side. Both sides are hilly with large mountain peaks. This forms a valley where many houses are located. There are no rivers on the island, but many dry gullies. Hiking trails give access to the dry forest covering tops and slopes.\n\nThe island is located south of Anguilla, separated from the British territory by the Anguilla Channel. Saint Martin is northwest of Saint Barthélemy, separated from the French territory by the Saint-Barthélemy Channel. It is one of the Renaissance Islands.\n\nIn 1493, explorer Christopher Columbus (1451–1506), embarked on his second voyage to the New World on behalf of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella I of Spain. According to legend, Columbus sighted and perhaps anchored at the island of Saint Martin on November 11, 1493, the feast day of Saint Martin of Tours. In his honour, Columbus then named the island \"San Martin\". This name was translated to \"Sint Maarten\" (Dutch), \"Saint-Martin\" (French) and \"Saint Martin\" in English.\n\nAt Columbus' time, St. Martin was populated, if at all, by Carib amerindians. The former Arawaks had been chased by the Caribs coming from the north coast of South America a short time before the arrival of the Spaniards who followed in Columbus' wake. The Arawaks were agricultural people who fashioned pottery and whose social organization was headed by hereditary chieftains who derived their power from personal deities called \"zemis\". The Caribs' territory was not completely conquered until the mid-17th century when most of them perished in the struggle between the French, English (later British), Dutch, Danes and Spanish for control of the West Indies islands around the Caribbean Sea.\n\nThe Dutch first began to ply the island's ponds for salt in the 1620s. Despite the Dutch presence on the island, the Spaniards recaptured St. Martin in 1633. One year later, they built a fort (now Fort Amsterdam, near Philipsburg) and another artillery battery at Pointe Blanche to assert their claim and control access to Great Bay salt pond. A massive influx of African slaves took place in the 18th century with the development of sugarcane plantations by the French and Dutch. Slavery was abolished in the first half of the 19th century. On some of their territories the British imported Chinese and South Asians to take the place of slaves. Thus, St. Martin and the other islands are populated by a mixture of Amerindian, European, African, Indian and Asian peoples.\n\nOn 23 March 1648, the Kingdom of France and the Dutch Republic agreed to divide the island between their two territories, with the signing of the Treaty of Concordia. Folklore surrounds the history of the once ever-changing border division between St. Martin and Sint Maarten, and a popular story among locals narrates that \"to divide the island into two sections, [in 1648] the inhabitants were told to choose two walkers, one chosen by the French-dominated community and the other one by the Dutch-dominated community, who were put back to back in one extreme of the island, making them walk in opposite directions while stuck to the littoral line, and not allowing them to run. The point where they eventually met was set as the other extreme of the island, and the subsequently created line was chosen as the frontier, dividing Saint-Martin from Sint Maarten. Seemingly, the French walker had walked more than his Dutch counterpart (they earned their respective lands 54 km² and 32 km²). The French locals' explanation for this discrepancy is that, as the first man chose wine as his stimulant prior to the race, while the latter chose Jenever (Dutch Gin), the difference between such beverages' lightness was said to be the cause of the territorial differences. The Dutch locals instead accuse the French walker of running.\"\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, the island has a tropical monsoon climate with a dry season from January to April and a rainy season from August to December. The precipitation patterns are due to the movement of the Azores high during the year. With the wind direction predominantly from the east or the northeast, northeasterly trades, temperatures remain stable throughout the year and temperatures rarely exceed or fall below . Temperatures remain steady throughout the year with an average mean temperature of . The average sea temperature is ranging from a low of in February to a high of in October. The total average yearly rainfall is , with 142 days of measurable rainfall. Thunderstorms can occasionally occur, with 18 days with thunder per year. Precipitation totals are quite variable from year to year, depending on the number of passing tropical cyclones.\n\nOn 6 September 2017 the island was hit by Hurricane Irma (Category 5 at landfall), which caused widespread and significant damage to buildings and infrastructure. A total of 11 deaths had been reported as of 8 September 2017. France's Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, said on 8 September 2017 that most of the schools were destroyed on the French half of the island. In addition to damage caused by high winds, there were reports of serious flood damage to businesses in the village of Marigot. Looting was also a serious problem. Both France and the Netherlands sent aid as well as additional police and emergency personnel to the island. \"The Washington Post\" reported that 95% of the structures on the French side and 75% of the structures on the Dutch side were damaged or destroyed. \n\nSome days after the storm had abated, a survey by the Dutch Red Cross estimated that nearly a third of the buildings in Sint Maarten had been destroyed and that over 90 percent of structures on the island had been damaged. Princess Juliana Airport was extensively damaged but reopened on a partial basis in two days to allow incoming relief flights and for flights that would take evacuees to other islands.\n\nINSEE estimated in 2005 the GDP per capita of Saint Martin for 1999 to be €14,500 (about USD15,400).\n\nThe main industry of the island is tourism. In 2000, the island had about one million visitors annually. About 85% of the workforce was engaged in the tourist industry.\n\nOn 1 January 2009 the population of the entire island of Saint Martin was 77,741 inhabitants, 40,917 of whom lived on the Dutch side of the island, and 36,824 on the French side. A local English-based creole language is spoken on both sides of the island.\n\nSt. Martin's Dutch side is known for its festive nightlife, beaches, jewellery, drinks made with native rum-based guavaberry liquors, and casinos. The island's French side is known for its nude beaches, clothes, shopping (including outdoor markets), and French and Indian Caribbean cuisine. English is the most commonly spoken language along with a local dialect. The official languages are French for Saint-Martin, and both Dutch and English for Sint Maarten. Other common languages include various French-based creoles (spoken by immigrants from other French Caribbean islands), Spanish (spoken by immigrants from the Dominican Republic and various South American countries), and Papiamento (spoken by immigrants from Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao).\n\nAmong the leading cultural artists of the island are Youth Waves, music band; Isidore \"Mighty Dow\" York, kaisonian, panman; Roland Richardson, Impressionist painter; Ruby Bute, painter; Nicole de Weever, dancer and Broadway star; Lasana M. Sekou, poet, author, independence advocate; Clara Reyes, choreographer; and Tanny and The Boys, string band music group.\n\nPublic buses are the primary mode of transportation for visitors staying on the island. Traffic on the island has become a major problem. Long traffic jams between Marigot, Philipsburg and the airport are common. \n\nIn recent years sargassum weed has arrived on the south (\"Dutch\") shoreline, but the northern French coast is generally free of the weed.\n\nBecause the island is located along the intertropical convergence zone, it is occasionally threatened by Atlantic hurricane activity in the late summer and early fall.\n\nNeighbouring islands include Saint Barthélemy (French), Anguilla (British), Saba (Dutch), Sint Eustatius \"Statia\" (Dutch), Saint Kitts and Nevis (independent, formerly British). With the exception of Nevis, all of these islands are easily visible on a clear day from St. Martin.\n\nShopping on St Maarten and Saint Martin offers duty-free goods in numerous boutiques. Popular goods include local crafts & arts, exotic foods, jewelry, liquor, tobacco, leather goods, as well as most designer goods. Most often the designer goods are offered at significant discounts, often up to 40% lower than EU retail prices.\n\nSaint Martin uses the Euro as its currency, while Sint Maarten uses the Netherlands Antillean guilder, pegged at 1.79 per US Dollar. As a consequence of the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles, the Netherlands Antillean guilder will cease to be legal tender and be replaced by the Caribbean guilder in the coming years. Almost every store on the island also accepts the United States dollar, although sometimes a more expensive exchange rate is used.\n\nNeither side of the island is part of the Schengen Area; full border checks are performed when travelling in and out of the island. Passport controls are also exercised when taking the ferry from Marigot or Princess Juliana International Airport to Anguilla. There are rarely checks at the border between the two sides of the island. \n\nIn 1994, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and France signed the Franco-Dutch treaty on Saint Martin border controls, which allows for joint Franco-Dutch border controls on so-called \"risk flights\" arriving from off-island, and only admitting foreigners having permission to travel on both sides of the island. After some delay, the treaty was ratified in November 2006 in the Netherlands, and subsequently entered into force on 1 August 2007. Its provisions are not yet implemented as the working group specified in the treaty is not yet installed. The treaty requires a working group that has never been set up, to harmonize external checks at the two main airports. The Dutch side has expressed concern that new and tighter French visa requirements would harm their tourism income.\n\nThe island is served by many major airlines that daily bring in large jet aircraft, including Boeing 747s and Airbus A340s carrying tourists from across the world. The short main runway at Princess Juliana International Airport, and its position between a large hill and a beach, causes some spectacular approaches. Aviation photographers flock to the airport to capture pictures of large jets just a few metres above sunbathers on Maho Beach. Given the destruction brought by Hurricane Irma in 2017, this activity has been almost totally curtailed.\nThere is a small airport on the French side of the island at Grand Case, L'Espérance Airport for small aircraft serving neighbouring Caribbean islands. It frequently suffers thick fog during the hurricane season due to its location.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4100990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4100990", "title": "Shredding (tree-pruning technique)", "text": "Shredding (tree-pruning technique)\n\nShredding is a traditional European method of tree pruning by which all side branches are removed repeatedly leaving the main trunk and top growth. In the Middle Ages the practice was common throughout Europe, but it is now rare, found mainly in central and Eastern Europe.\n\nThe purpose of shredding is to allow harvest of firewood and animal fodder while preserving a tall main trunk which may be harvested for timber at a later date.\n\nIt was formerly practiced in Britain although Oliver Rackham notes that \"The medieval practice of shredding – cropping the side-branches of a tree leaving a tuft at the top – vanished from Britain long ago. Only at Haresfield (Gloucestershire) have I seen a few ancient ashes that may once have been shredded\".\n\nAnother name for cutting side branches off trees, used mainly in Northern England, is snagging.\n\nOther similar woodland management techniques include pollarding and coppicing.\n\n"}
{"id": "717439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=717439", "title": "Sub-replacement fertility", "text": "Sub-replacement fertility\n\nSub-replacement fertility is a total fertility rate (TFR) that (if sustained) leads to each new generation being less populous than the older, previous one in a given area. In developed countries sub-replacement fertility is any rate below approximately 2.1 children born per woman, but the threshold can be as high as 3.4 in some developing countries because of higher mortality rates. Taken globally, the total fertility rate at replacement was 2.33 children per woman in 2003. This can be \"translated\" as 2 children per woman to replace the parents, plus a \"third of a child\" to make up for the higher probability of boys born and mortality prior to the end of their fertile life.\n\nReplacement level fertility in terms of the net reproduction rate (NRR) is exactly one, because the NRR takes both mortality rates and sex ratios at birth into account.\n\nAs of 2010, about 48% (3.3 billion people) of the world population lives in nations with sub-replacement fertility. Nonetheless most of these countries still have growing populations due to immigration, population momentum and increase of the life expectancy. This includes most nations of Europe, Canada, Australia, Brazil, Russia, Iran, Tunisia, China, the United States and many others. In 2015, all European Union countries had a sub-replacement fertility rate, ranging from a low of 1.31 in Portugal to a high of 1.96 in France. The countries or areas that have the lowest fertility are in developed parts of East and Southeast Asia: Singapore, Macau, Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. Only a few countries have had, for the time being, sufficiently sustained sub-replacement fertility (sometimes combined with other population factors like higher emigration than immigration) to have population decline, such as Japan, Germany, Lithuania, and Ukraine. As of 2016, the total fertility rate varied from 0.82 in Singapore to 6.62 in Niger.\n\nThere have been a number of explanations for the general decline in fertility rates in much of the world, and the true explanation is almost certainly a combination of different factors.\n\nThe fact that more people are going to colleges and universities, and are working to obtain more post-graduate degrees there, along with the soaring costs of education, have contributed greatly to postponing marriage in many cases, and bearing children at all, or fewer numbers of children. And the fact that the number of women getting higher education has increased has contributed to fewer of them getting married younger, if at all. In the US, for example, females make up more than half of all college students, which is a reversal from a few decades back.\n\nThe relationship between higher education and childbearing varies by country: for example, in Switzerland by age 40, childlessness among women who had completed tertiary education is 40%, while in France it is only 15%. In some countries, childlessness has a longer tradition, and was common even before educational levels increased, but in others, such as Southern European ones, it is a recent phenomenon; for instance in Spain the childlessness rate for women aged 40–44 in 2011 was 21.60%, but historically throughout the 20th century it was around 10%. Not all countries show a relationship between low fertility and education: in Czech Republic, of women born in 1961-1965, low educated women were more likely to be childless than high educated women.\n\nThe growth of wealth and human development are related to sub-replacement fertility, although a sudden drop in living conditions, such as the great depression, can also lower fertility.\n\nIn Eastern European countries, the fall of communism was followed by an economic collapse in many of these countries in the 1990s. Some countries, such as those that experienced violent conflicts in the 1990s, were badly affected. Large numbers of people lost their jobs, and massive unemployment, lack of jobs outside the big cities, and economic uncertainty discourages people from having children. For instance, in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the total fertility rate in 2016 was only 1.28 children born/woman.\n\nSome consider the increase of urbanization around the world a central cause. In recent times, residents of urban areas tend to have fewer children than people in rural areas. The need for extra labour from children on farms does not apply to urban-dwellers. Cities tend to have higher property prices, making a large family more expensive, especially in those societies where each child is now expected to have their own bedroom, rather than sharing with siblings as was the case until recently. Rural areas also tend to be more conservative, with less contraception and abortion than urban areas.\n\nCountries which have a high fertility rate are usually less developed countries, where families rely on children to help them, with labour such as agricultural work, tending to livestock, or even paid work. In such countries child labour is quite common, with children bringing money at home, or actively supporting the family through pshysical work. By contrast, in the West, child labour is banned, and it is parents who invest very high costs into their children.\n\nAlthough fertility rates are often discussed in terms of state policies (e.g. financial benefits, combining work with family etc.), the deeply entranced social views on what constitutes an \"ideal\" family may play a crucial role: if parents do not envision large families in a positive way, it is difficult to \"convince\" them to have many children. In this regard, there are major differences between European countries: while 50.23% of women aged 15–39 state that the \"ideal\" family has 3 or more children in Estonia, and 46.43% say this in Finland; only 11.3% say this in Czech Republic, and 11.39% in Bulgaria.\n\nChanges in contraception are also an important cause, and one that has seen dramatic changes in the last few generations. Legalization and widespread acceptance of contraception in the developed world is a large factor in decreased fertility levels; however, for instance in a European context where its prevalence has always been very high in the modern era, the fertility rates do not seem to be influenced significantly by availability of contraception.\n\nThe availability of assisted reproductive technology (ART) may foster delay of childbearing, because many couples think that it can solve any future fertility problems. Its effect on total fertility rate is extremely small but government support for it is beneficial for families.\n\nThe Human Development Index (HDI) is a composite statistic of life expectancy, education, and per capita income indicators, which are used to rank countries into four tiers of human development. A country scores higher HDI when the lifespan is higher, the education level is higher, and the GDP per capita is higher. There is a strong inverse correlation between the HDI and the fertility rate of the population: the higher the HDI, the lower the fertility rate. As of 2016, the countries with the highest fertility rate are Burundi, Mali, Somalia, Uganda, Burkina Faso, Zambia, Malawi, Angola, and Afghanistan; while most Western countries have sub-replacement fertility rates. This is part of the fertility-income paradox, as these high fertility countries are very poor, and it may seem counter-intuitive for families there to have so many children. The inverse relationship between income and fertility has been termed a \"demographic-economic \"paradox\"\" by the notion that greater means would enable the production of more offspring as suggested by the influential Thomas Malthus.\n\nSome governments have launched programmes to reduce fertility rates and curb population growth. Notably, China implemented a one-child policy for 35 years (from 1979 to 2015); this was relaxed to a two-child policy in 2016.\n\nAlthough today Singapore has a very low fertility rate, and the government encourages parents to have more children because birth rates have fallen below the replacement rate, in the 1970s the situation was the opposite: the government wished to slow and reverse the boom in births that started after World War II (see the poster).\n\nThe total fertility rate is also influenced by the ability to choose what type of family to have, if and when to have children, and the number of children to have - free from coercion, pressure, or interference from the community, extended family, state or church. This includes prohibition on practices such as child marriage, forced marriage or bride price. In some cultures for instance, the payment of the bride price creates an obligation on the wife to have children, and failure to do so often results in threats and violence. Western countries have substantially lower fertility rates, and increased childlessness, because people who remain childless or who have small families are less likely to be stigmatized. In many cultures childless women suffer discrimination, stigma, ostracism, and social isolation.\n\nIt has been shown, both historically and in the present day, that societies engaged in a prolonged state of war experience a substantial lag in fertility rate. The most notable examples of this phenomenon are widely accredited to the First and Second World Wars. Modeled by these examples, \"total war\" subjects individuals to intense social upheavals and a heavy psychological impact that forcefully prioritizes survival and economic stability over the need to reproduce for the duration of the conflict. Events like these subsequently pave way for an active effort to repopulate, such as the \"baby boom\" after the Second World War.\n\nTotal fertility rate (TFR) is affected by a phenomenon called the tempo effect, which describes \"distortions due to changes in the timing of births.\" John Bongaarts and Griffith Feeney have suggested that this tempo effect is driving the decline of measured fertility rate in the developed world.\n\nA study of the United States and multiple countries in Europe came to the result that women who continue to cohabit rather than get married after birth have significantly lower probability of having a second child than married women in all countries except those in Eastern Europe. Another study, on the contrary, came to the result that cohabiting couples in France have equal fertility as married ones.\n\nA large survey in the United States came to the result that married women had an average of 1.9 children, compared to 1.3 among those cohabiting. The corresponding numbers for men were 1.7 and 1.1, respectively. The difference of 0.6 children for both sexes was expected to decrease to between 0.2 and 0.3 over the lifetime when correcting for the confounder that married people have their children earlier in life.\nIn the United States, those who cohabit without marrying had increased fertility when the male earns considerably more than the female.\n\nAnother explanation for falling fertility could be a reduction in the frequency of sex. For example, according to the Japan Family Planning Association 2016 survey, 47.3% of the men and 47.1% of the women had not had sex with their spouse in the previous month.\n\nIn recent years, the marriage rate in many countries (especially in the West) has decreased. As more young people reject traditional lifestyles that include marriage, the issue arises whether the state accepts non-traditional families such as those based on non-marital cohabitation, or whether it actively discourages non-marital childbearing. In Western countries, the former position of accepting cohabiting couples and supporting them as a legitimate form of family has been connected with a higher fertility rate (e.g. Scandinavian countries, France, where most births occur outside of marriage) while the latter (such as East Asia - Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore) has been connected with a very low fertility rate.\n\nPeople are more likely in modern society to invest strongly in the needs of their children, such as offering them the best education, shelter (a room only for the child), travel, cultural activities etc. In the past, when child mortality was high, people had more children, but invested less in them. Today, parents usually experience much less doubt about whether the child will live to adulthood, and so are more likely to strongly invest in that child. But strongly investing in each child makes it more difficult to have large numbers of children—a \"quantity vs. quality trade-off\" effect.\n\nSocial norms both within the family and in society at large determine fertility levels.\nThe quality of couple relations in terms of support given to the woman matters, with studies on fertility in the West showing a U-shaped relationship between gender equity within the couple and fertility: in countries with very low fertility rates, the probability of a woman to have the second child occurs at the extremes - either very low gender equality or very high gender equality. This is also reflected at a social level: countries that are neither sufficiently patriarchal to coerce women into having large families, nor sufficiently egalitarian to incentivize women to have more children through strong support (such as subsidized childcare and good support of working mothers), have very low fertility rates, especially among educated women. Where women are expected to 'choose' between their professional and public life, or having children, the more educated the woman is, the more likely she is to choose the former. The strong emphases on the domestic role of women in Germany (unlike Scandinavia and France) was described as the cause of the very low fertility in that country.\n\nThe Greek historian Polybius largely blamed the decline of the Hellenistic world on low fertility rates, writing in his work \"The Histories\" that:\nIn a speech to Roman nobles, the Emperor Augustus commented on the low birthrates of the Roman elite:\n\nUpon the establishment of the Roman Empire, Emperor Augustus would introduce legislation to increase the birthrates of the Roman nobility.\n\nSome believe that not only the Great Recession, but the Great Depression, may have been the result of a decline in birthrates overall. Clarence L. Barber, an economist at the University of Manitoba, pointed out how demand for housing in the US, for example, began to decline in 1926, due to a decline in 'household formation' (marriage), due, he believed, to the effects of World War I upon society. In early 1929, US housing demand declined precipitously and the stock market crash followed in October of that same year.\n\nOne of the most notorious policies of forceful attempts to increase the TFR occurred in communist Romania between 1967 and 1990. Communist leader Nicolae Ceaușescu adopted a very aggressive natalist policy that included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people. This period was depicted in movies and documentaries (such as \"4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days\", \"Children of the Decree\"). These policies increased birth rates for a few years, but this was followed by a decline due to increased illegal abortion. Ceaușescu's policy resulted in over 9,000 women who died due to illegal abortions, large numbers of children put into orphanages by parents who couldn't cope with raising them, street children in the 1990s (when many orphanages were closed and the children ended on the streets), and overcrowding in homes and schools. In addition, Ceaușescu's demographic policies are feared of having very serious effects in the future, because the generations born under Ceaușescu are large (especially the late 1960s and the 1970s), while those born in the 1990s and 2000s are very small. This is believed to cause a very serious demographic shock when the former generations retire, as there will be insufficient young people in the workforce to support the elderly. Apart from Romania, a relatively similar policy of restricted reproductive rights during that period also existed in Communist Albania, under Enver Hoxha (see Abortion in Albania).\n\nPopulation aging may pose an economic challenge to governments as the number of retired citizens drawing public pensions rises in relation to the number of workers. This has been raised as a political issue in France, Germany, and the United States where many people have advocated policy changes to encourage higher birth and immigration rates.\n\nAnalysing data for 40 countries, Lee et al. show that fertility well above replacement and population growth would typically be most beneficial for government budgets. However, fertility near replacement and population stability would be most beneficial for standards of living when the analysis includes the effects of age structure on families as well as governments. And fertility moderately below replacement and population decline would maximize standards of living when the cost of providing capital for a growing labour force is taken into account.\n\nSub-replacement fertility does not automatically translate into a population decline because of increasing life expectancy and population momentum: recently high fertility rates produce a disproportionately young population, and younger populations have higher birth rates. This is why some nations with sub-replacement fertility still have a growing population, because a relatively large fraction of their population are still of child-bearing age. But if the fertility trend is sustained (and not compensated by immigration), it results in population ageing and/or population decline. This is already happening and impacts first most of the countries of Europe and East Asia.\n\nCurrent estimates expect the world's total fertility rate to fall below replacement levels by 2050,\nthough population momentum continues to increase global population for several generations beyond that. The development of the world population is linked with concerns of overpopulation, sustainability and exceeding Earth's carrying capacity.\n\nSome governments, fearful of a future pensions crisis, have developed natalist policies to attempt to encourage more women to have children. Measures include increasing tax allowances for working parents, improving child-care provision, reducing working hours/weekend working in female-dominated professions such as healthcare and a stricter enforcement of anti-discrimination measures to prevent professional women's promotion prospects being hindered when they take time off work to care for children. Over recent years, the fertility rate has increased to around 2.0 in France and 1.9 in Britain and some other northern European countries, but the role of population policies in these trends is debated. In Italy, for example, natalist policies may have actually discouraged the Italian population from having more children. This \"widespread resistance\" was the result of the Italian government, at one point, taxing single persons and criminalizing abortion and even contraception.\n\nEuropean analysts hope, with the help of government incentives and large-scale change towards family-friendly policies, to stall the population decline and reverse it by around 2030, expecting that most of Europe will have a slight natural increase by then. C. D. Howe Institute, for example, tries to demonstrate that immigration cannot be used to effectively counter population ageing.\n\nWhile much of the world has experienced declining fertility rates over the last twenty years, the total fertility rate in the United States has remained relatively stable in comparison. This is largely due to the high fertility rate among communities such as Hispanics, but it is also because the fertility rate among non-Hispanic whites in the US, after falling to about 1.6 in the 1970s and early 1980s, had increased and is now around 1.89 rather than lower to the 1.6 level common in Europe. It can also be explained by substantial immigration.\n\nNew England has a rate similar to most Western European countries, while the South, Midwest, and border states have fertility rates considerably higher than replacement. States where The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a strong presence, most notably Utah, also have higher-than-replacement fertility rates, especially among the LDS population. Heaton and Goodman (1985) found that LDS women average about one child more than women in other religious groups.\n\nSome other developed countries are experiencing an increase in their birth rate, including France, which recorded a TFR of over 2.00 in 2008; the United Kingdom where TFR increased from 1.64 in 2000 to 1.98 in 2010; Australia, where the birth rate rose from 1.73 in 2001 to 1.93 in 2007 and New Zealand, where the TFR was 2.2 in 2008.\n\nIsrael is the only developed country that has never had sub-replacement fertility; a declining Arab and Bedouin fertility rate is countered by religious Jewish groups (mostly Haredim) with higher than average fertility rates. In addition, the (mostly non-religious) aliyah Jews from the former USSR shifted from a 1 child per woman fertility rate to an average fertility rate close to 2.2 children per woman. As of 2008, Israel's Jewish fertility rate is the highest among the industrial nations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23176330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23176330", "title": "USRC Thomas Corwin (1876)", "text": "USRC Thomas Corwin (1876)\n\nThe Thomas Corwin was a United States Revenue Cutter and subsequently a merchant vessel. These two very different roles both centered on Alaska and the Bering Sea. In 1912, Frank Willard Kimball wrote: \"The Corwin has probably had a more varied and interesting career than any other vessel which plies the Alaskan waters.\"\n\nThe United States Revenue Cutter \"Thomas Corwin\" (aka the \"Corwin\") was the first revenue cutter to regularly cruise the Bering Sea and the Arctic Ocean. Built in the state of Oregon, she was finished and commissioned in San Francisco which remained her home port. In a 23-year federal career, she participated in the search for the , landed scientific parties on Wrangel and Herald islands, took part in the shelling of the Tlingit village Angoon, interdicted whiskey traffic, rescued shipwrecked whalers, contributed to the exploration of Alaska, and arrested seal poachers. She had at least eight captains during her federal career, but is particularly associated with two: the cool and resolute Calvin L. Hooper and the volatile Michael Healy. She continued operating in the Bering Sea as a merchant and charter vessel after she was sold in 1900.\n\nAs a merchant vessel, the SS \"Corwin\" started out as a support vessel for minerals exploration, and subsequently was extensively modified to carry passengers. She served coastal ports on Norton and Kotzebue Sounds, the Seward Peninsula, and the Bering Strait during the shipping season, and generally wintered in Puget Sound. She was the first steamer to reach Nome in the spring multiple years, and also frequently the last steamer out in the fall. Her Master through most of her commercial service was Ellsworth Luce West. She attempted to rescue the \"Karluk\" survivors from Wrangel Island and participated in the search for four missing \"Karluk\" crewmen in 1914.\n\nThe \"Corwin\" was named for Thomas Corwin, a well-known mid-nineteenth-century politician who served as Secretary of the Treasury during Millard Fillmore's presidency. She was the second of three Revenue Cutter Service and Coast Guard vessels to bear the name (there was also a patrol boat \"Cape Corwin\").\n\nShe was built as a single-screw steam-powered topsail schooner by Oregon Iron Works at Albina (Portland) Oregon in 1876 and commissioned at San Francisco in 1877. She was constructed of fir and \"fastened with copper, galvanized iron, and locust tree nails\". Her appearance was typical of revenue cutters of the period, flush-decked (or nearly so) with clipper bow, fantail stern, two sail-bearing masts, pilot house and funnel amidships and a deckhouse (probably including the upper parts of the engine and boiler rooms) beneath and extending behind the pilot house. The boiler powering the propulsion machinery was of the Scotch marine boiler type and was the first instance of that type of boiler on a Revenue Cutter Service vessel. The addition of steam jackets on the cylinders to reduce condensation losses was another innovation new to the service. Her cost and displacement were somewhat greater than the Dexter-class (1874) cutters of similar length and overall design.\n\nConstruction of the \"Corwin\" was contracted in May 1875 with completion scheduled for February 28, 1876. Captain John W. White was construction superintendent for the Revenue Cutter Service. The \"Corwin\" was the first government vessel constructed in the state of Oregon, and a large crowd came out to see her launched August 23, 1876. Oregon Iron Works became insolvent that fall and was declared bankrupt; this resulted in liens filed against the vessel by suppliers and subcontractors for unpaid bills. On January 2, 1877, Judge J. Deady of the U.S District Court, Oregon District ruled that the lien of libellants Coffin and Hendry was valid, that the government was not yet the owner of the vessel and had not been in possession when the vessel was seized by the marshal on November 29. However, the \"Corwin\" had been extricated about January 1, 1877 by Captain White and the USRC \"Rush\" and moved to the middle of the Columbia River (another source has this about January 10). The Government appealed Judge Deady's ruling and Coffin and Hendry withdrew their claim on the basis of assurances that they would be paid faster if they settled. After a flurry of unsuccessful legal actions by other claimants, the \"Corwin\" was removed to San Francisco where she was completed at a cost of $10150.77 and subsequently commissioned. Congress was still considering suppliers and workmen's claims in 1884.\n\nThe \"Corwin\" was reported to be capable of 12 knots under sail (48-hour average with a beam wind), 11.5 knots under steam alone, and 13–14 knots under combined power. In 1900, her speed (probably cruising speed) was reported as 9 knots. Details of the \"Corwin's\" original three-gun armament are not available. In 1891 she reportedly carried four three-inch breech-loading rifles and two Gatling guns. In July 1891, the \"New York Times\" reported that she would be rearmed with six-pounder Hotchkiss rapid-fire guns.\n\nThe \"Corwin\" spent her entire career in the Pacific and Arctic oceans; her home port throughout her government service was San Francisco. She made her first trip to northern waters in 1877 under Captain J.W. White. In 1880 and 1881 with Calvin L. Hooper commanding and Michael Healy as Executive Officer, she searched in the Arctic for the USS \"Jeannette\", a lost exploration vessel, and two lost whalers, \"Vigilant\" and \"Mount Wollaston\". For this expedition, she was sheathed with one-inch oak planks from two feet above the water line to six feet below, with the oak applied over the copper and secured with 2.5-inch composition nails. Also added was an ice-breaking attachment for her bow, constructed of 3/8 inch iron plate, which could be put in place when needed. Captain Hooper sent out exploratory parties by dogsled along the Siberian arctic coast. Artifacts and stories collected from the Chukchi residents of the coast confirmed that the \"Vigilant\" had been lost with no survivors, and apparently had picked up survivors from the \"Mount Wollaston\" before her own disaster. In the course of the \"Corwin's\" 1880 cruise, Captain Hooper located and mapped coal deposits in cliffs east of Cape Lisburne, Alaska, previously discovered by Captain E.E. Smith, the \"Corwin's\" ice pilot. The crew mined coal from these deposits in both 1880 and 1881, and the site has since been known as the Corwin coal mine.\n\nIn 1881 the \"Corwin\" carried a scientific detachment including John Muir, Irving C. Rosse, M.D., and Edward W. Nelson, and in the course of the search for the \"Jeannette\" landed parties on Herald and Wrangel Islands in the Chukchi Sea. In 1882, with Michael Healy as Captain, the \"Corwin\" was dispatched to St Lawrence Bay to pick up the stranded crew of the \"USS Rodgers\", another ship of the \"Jeannette\" search which burned while overwintering in Siberia. The \"Rodgers\" crew was picked up by the whaler \"North Star\" and later transferred to the \"Corwin\" which returned them to San Francisco. In October 1882 she participated in the Angoon Bombardment which was the shelling and burning of the Tlingit village Angoon in retaliation for a hostage-taking incident. A contemporary letter discovered about 1990 partly confirms and partly refutes the official Navy account of this incident. Her voyages in 1884 and 1885 included explorations by boat detachments of the Kobuk (1884 and 1885; Healy wrote Kowak) and Noatak (1885) rivers in Alaska and the first ascent and investigation of the newly formed Bogoslof volcano in the Aleutians.\n\nThe \"Corwin\" was replaced on the Arctic patrol by the USRC \"Bear\" starting in 1886. Among the reasons for this change was the \"Corwin's\" limited coal capacity which interfered with long cruises. The \"Corwin\" returned to the Bering Sea in 1886 and from 1890 to 1897 to combat fur seal poaching. In December 1893 she carried dispatches to US ambassador Albert S. Willis in Hawaii at the height of the political crisis following the deposition of Queen Liliuokalani. \"Corwin's\" arrival there caused some consternation since it was thought it might signal US intervention to restore the queen. The \"Corwin\" went into the dockyard at Quartermaster Harbor, Washington for extensive repairs including refastening and some engine work before the 1896 season. She operated under Navy orders with a Revenue Service crew during the Spanish–American War, serving around San Diego, and was returned to the United States Treasury Department in August 1898. She was back in service in Alaska in 1899 The \"Corwin\" was decommissioned and sold February 14, 1900 for 16,500 and was replaced on the Bering Sea patrol by the USRC \"Manning\". \"Corwin\" remained active in the Bering Sea as a merchant and charter vessel after she was sold.\n\nIn 1900 Ellsworth Luce West, a whaling captain from Martha's Vineyard, and some Boston investors formed a company to develop the coal deposits near Cape Lisburne to supply the Nome market. Needing a suitable ship, they entered the winning bid for the \"Corwin\" and organized as the Corwin Trading Company. The project increased in scope when one investor (veteran prospector, engineer, and writer A.G. Kingsbury) pledged Nome gold claims for his shares. Although Kingsbury described them as \"conservative Boston capitalists\" the investors appear to have been as much enthusiasts as any Nome prospectors; all insisted on joining the expedition. To create cargo space in the \"Corwin\", West had the entire wardroom torn out. The lost accommodations were replaced with a cabin constructed from the stern to the engine room, creating a raised poop deck. This modification is shown clearly in a 1902 photograph. West describes the \"Corwin\" as brig-rigged in this period, but photos from 1900 continue to show a gaff on the foremast and no yards crossed on the mainmast, so this is more a difference of terminology than a change of sail-plan.\n\nCaptain West could not obtain a passenger license for the ship without having her re-caulked, so the small number of passengers were signed as crew members. She went up to Nome carrying expedition equipment and general cargo and from about June 3–10 was occupied with the rescue and salvage of the barkentine \"Catherine Sudden\", which had suffered a punctured hull and two broken masts hitting ice. A little later she set out on a prospecting expedition to Cape Chaplino and stopped at St Lawrence Island about June 17. There she encountered the Russian steamer \"Progress\", chartered by American mining engineer Washington Vanderlip and his Russian backers. Vanderlip hired the \"Corwin\" to clear a channel through the ice so \"Progress\" could reach Cape Chaplino and the clear water just off the Siberian coast.\n\nVanderlip described the \"Corwin's\" action as an icebreaker: \"Some of the ice the Corwin can push to one side or the other but when this is not possible she backs up in order to get good headway and charges the obstruction and strikes it fairly between the eyes. She comes to a dead stop and quivers from stem to stern with the tremendous impact A rending grinding noise is heard and the berg which challenged us is a berg no longer...\" \n\nFinding the streams near Cape Chaplino still ice-clogged, the Corwin returned to Nome. In mid-July she headed north on a minerals exploration trip. She reached the coal deposits after prospecting stops at Grantley Harbor (adjacent to Port Clarence, Alaska) and along the coast. The largest seam had already been staked by a competing company (that party traveled by land), but the \"Corwin's\" party staked several other claims, mined and loaded coal, and returned to Nome with 100 tons (four lighter-loads) to sell. Coal was handled in sacks of 200 lb, lowered down the cliffs by rope. It reportedly sold tor $18–20 per ton at Nome. A second trip developed the mines and brought out 25 tons.\n\nIn April 1901 the \"Corwin\" was towed from Port Townsend to Esquimalt and hauled out for refitting. She then spent most of that summer tied to the dock for nonpayment of the dockyard bill. Captain West, who had spent the early part of the season as second mate on an east coast collier, was eventually sent west with $2000 to settle up. After paying the bills, he set about finding work for the vessel to pay her keep. A plan to charter her out for halibut fishing was vetoed by F.W. Huestis, president of the Corwin Trading Company, reportedly because of insurance costs.\n\nBy 1902 the \"Corwin\" was licensed to carry passengers as well as freight. Accommodations were rearranged to carry 35 first-class and 50 steerage passengers. She departed Seattle in May and spent the summer and early fall serving Nome and surrounding towns and camps as far north as Deering on Kotzebue Sound. She underwent further modification at Moran's yard in Seattle before the 1904 season. This work extended or replaced the stern cabin to give her an entire second deck as well as a vertical stem (fitted with a steel ice protector), two new deckhouses, and a forward pilothouse. This so altered her appearance that only a few of her numerous subsequent photographs give any hint of her past as a schooner. Besides the outward changes she was modernized with addition of electric lighting throughout the ship and running water in all staterooms. The changes added six first-class staterooms and more steerage space, bringing her capacity to 100 passengers and about 200 tons freight. One source reports the cost of the rebuilding as $40000. When she headed out for Alaska in May 1904 after addition of the second deck there were rumors the modification had made her topheavy. Some passengers complained before departure that she was overloaded and unseaworthy. Inspectors ordered that all freight be stowed below deck, but permitted her to sail. Subsequently there were reports that wreckage from the ship had been found on Vancouver Island leading to fears she was lost, but she reached Nome safely on June 8. The \"Victoria Daily Colonist\" could not find the origin of the reports and branded them a deliberate hoax.\n\nThe \"Corwin\" continued in the passenger and freight business and from 1906 to 1910 held a contract to transport mail to towns on Norton Sound and the Seward Peninsula. She was the first ship to reach Nome in the spring in 1902–1909, 1913 and 1914. She generally returned to Puget Sound in the fall and was often the last ship out of Nome. In part, her early arrivals were due to the fact that she was sheathed and retained a protected and reinforced bow for ice work. In 1908, after arriving at Nome during a particularly bad ice season, the Corwin headed out again and cut channels to free three steamers that were stuck in the ice 50 miles from Nome, one (the \"Victoria\") in danger of sinking and all in danger of being carried north by moving ice. \nOn June 11, 1909, Corwin received a distress call from \"St. Croix\" a vessel trapped in the ice and taking on water South of Nome. Corwin refused to come to the aid of St. Croix for no less than $6,000.\nIn 1914, it was arranged that she would lead the waiting fleet of steamers into Nome, following closely as the Revenue Cutter \"Bear\" picked out a channel through the ice. For most of her merchant career, she was owned by the Pacific Coal and Transportation Company (successor to the Corwin Trading Company), and her official home port was listed as Boston. Captain West returned as Master from 1902 to 1910; his wife Gertrude sailed with him as Ship's Clerk. Most of the crew were Eskimo (they were less likely to desert the ship to go prospecting), and the kitchen staff were Chinese. The \"Corwin\" held daily fire drills, and was equipped with wireless since the 1904 refit. In 1911 and 1912, the \"Corwin\" was listed as a ship of the Western Alaska Steamship Company. In 1913, her home port was listed as Seattle and her owner as Ben Moyses.\n\nIn 1914, a wealthy Nome mine-owner and businessman, Jafet Lindeberg, chartered the \"Corwin\" (Captain R.J. Healy) from the Kotzebue Transportation and Trading Company to attempt a rescue the \"Karluk\" survivors from Wrangel Island. She reached Wrangel Island one day after the survivors had been rescued by Olaf Swenson and his crew in the \"King & Winge\". She then proceeded to look for four missing members of \"Karluk's\" crew, circling Herald Island without seeing any sign of the missing men. The \"Corwin\" struck a reef off Cape Douglas on her return trip and went hard aground. She was refloated by jettisoning and lightering supplies to lighten ship, with assistance from the USRC \"Bear\" and a crew from the Nome Lifesaving station.\n\nBy 1916, the \"Corwin\" was majority-owned by Schubach & Hamilton, who sold her to Mexican owners. She burned in drydock at Salina Cruz that same year.\n\nSeveral places in Alaska and Yukon are named for the \"Corwin\", including Corwin Bluff (the bluff near Cape Lisburne containing the Corwin Coal Mine), Corwin Rock in the Aleutian Islands, and possibly Cape Corwin on Nunivak Island. Kivalina lagoon was called Corwin Lagoon by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey from 1884 to about 1950. The Corwin Cliffs in the Saint Elias Mountains, Yukon were named for the \"Corwin\" by I.C Russell in 1890.\n\nA contemporaneous model of the Corwin built by Captain Thomas Mountain is in the collection of the Oregon State Historical Society and was displayed at the Alaska State Museum in 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9465336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9465336", "title": "Viduzia", "text": "Viduzia\n\nViduzia (or, in its current form; Vidusa) is a chain of mountains in Eastern Herzegovina (In Bosnia), North of Popovo Polje roughly between the little cities of Stolac and Trebinje.\n\nViduzia has been inhabited since ancient times. It was a boundary between two Illyrian Tribes, inhabited by Docleatae and Pleraei. After the down fall of Illyrian kingdoms, Roman Settlers from the nearby town of Travunia (Today's; Trebinje), moved in and established homesteads and farms.\n\nLater on, as Roman Rule decreased, autonomous regions started to form in the Balkans. In the 10th century the highlands were added to Travunia, which at that time was still largely untouched by Slavic invasions. \nBy 968, Croatian King Krešimir exiled his son, Prince Leghec to Trebinje, where he fell in love with Lovizzia, a court maid that gave him seven sons. Leghec raised a rebellion of the people and created a vassalage of the Croatian Kingdom, but the Croatian occupation was expelled and dynastic control re-established with the help of Ragusa subsequently with Boleslav's son Sylvester; who ruled justly.\n\nPerhaps; Ragusa (with an overwhelming Romanised population), felt threatened by Croatian Expansion. After all, Croatians, like many other Slavic tribes, only converted to Christianity in name, and were still known as pirates, and invaders. \nOr perhaps, Ragusa wanted to expand themselves.\n\nIn any case; by the 14th century, Ragusa had made its name by expanding well, right along the coast, while Travunia got swallowed by the long awaited Slavic Invasions.\n\nFor the proceeding five centuries, Viduzia stayed isolated, as the local inhabitants slowly started drifting south-westwards, into the Peljesac Peninsula, and finally (during the Ottoman invasions) into the Island of Korcula and beyond.\n\nIts terrain is dotted with ancient church ruins and fortifications, starting from around 200BC onwards.\n\nThe climate of Viduzia is typically Mediterranean, warm and dry. However, the legendary Bura is a strong, cold wind from the north that occurs mostly in the winter and spring. The higher regions of Vudizia get snow in winter. Temperature can be as high as 44 °C.\n\nThe climate in Viduzia results from the combination of three factors:\n\n- high annual daylight hours\n\n- limited precipitation (snow, rain, etc.); in winter the wind drives out the clouds after short but intense downpours.\n\n- dry weather (the area could have dryness one month and rain the following, but still have significant dryness overall)\n\n"}
{"id": "30306860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30306860", "title": "Voordelta", "text": "Voordelta\n\nThe Voordelta is the coastal area in the North Sea, protected under Natura 2000. It is located to the west of the islands of the provinces of South Holland and Zeeland, around the deltas of Haringvliet, Grevelingen, and Oosterschelde. The total area of Voordelta is about 900 km².\n\n"}
{"id": "54208101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54208101", "title": "Água Gunu", "text": "Água Gunu\n\nÁgua Gunu is a village the Mé-Zóchi District, São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 1,018 (2008).\n"}
