{"id": "58644105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58644105", "title": "Acculturation gap", "text": "Acculturation gap\n\nThe acculturation gap is the changing set of values and culture between a child and parent or guardian. The gap is usually revealed after a family immigrates from one country to another and assimilates into a the culture. After immigration, a child adapts into a new culture quickly. The child usually interacts with more people from the new culture than the culture of their parents. School attendance plays a significant role in the shift of values and attitudes. \n\nThe acculturation gap-distress hypothesis states that because the parent and child acculturate at different rates, the acculturation gap exists. Because the parents have spent more time embracing their own culture and heritage, it takes more time for them to acculturate. Acculturation occurs when a person adapts into a new culture and learns its language, values, and traditions. When children acculturate, they are less proud of their family and view their parents as controlling. The parents do not switch their views and ideologies in the same way. The gap in language, values, and traditions between the child and parent is linked to conflict between them.\n\nThe acculturation gap in language can cause conflict between members of an immigrant family. The parents use their native language more so than the primary language of their new environment. The child, depending on the age of the child during immigration, is more likely to assume the local primary language as their own.\n\nIf a child does not formally learn the language of their parents, conflict arises between the family because it becomes difficult for the parent and child to discuss topics in depth with one another. When parents have to rely on their child for translation, it reverses the child-parent relationship and can lead to complications.\n\nThe acculturation gap causes distress among parents and their children. When parents acculturate at a slower rate than their children, it can result in the parent growing apart from the child and not feeling as connected as before. In addition, parents could prevent the child from participating in activities that are a part of the new culture, which could lead the child to want to acculturate even further. Studies found that the increased conflict leads to more tense families that do not bond as deeply as others. In addition, it is likely that these children act out behaviorally or academically.\n\nOne study with Mexican-American families found that intergenerational acculturation was unrelated to youth behavioral issues and family conflict disproving the acculturation gap-distress hypothesis. The study found that when the parent was more acculturated than the child, the child struggled with aggression and antisocial behavior. This study also found that when neither the parent or child was acculturated to the American or traditional culture, the child had a greater risk of conduct problems.\n\nImmigrants sometimes face cultural dissonance when moving from one place to another. They may be confronted with prejudice from locals whp feel their home has been infiltrated. This results in the immigrant feeling uncomfortable in the new environment which can potentially lead to conflict.\n\nStudies have found that an immigrant child's exposure to discrimination and negative stereotypes while acculturating also can generate family conflict back at home due to the child's lost traditional cultural values.\n\nMultiple studies were conducted to evaluate the acculturation gap and whether or not it has detrimental effects. The studies ask children and parents about how they feel about their own acculturation and the acculturation of other family members. The studies then compare the gaps. Results from some studies showed that parents were more attached to their cultural heritage while other studies showed that the children were more attached than their parents. Based on this, the acculturation gap may not be as predicted.\n\nStudies also reflect that many struggle with adjusting culturally. Studies exhibit links between cultural dissonance and depression in the case of Chinese-American children. Chinese-Canadian and Chinese-American children who do not know the Chinese language as well as they'd like show a link to depression. Higher conflict than normal is shown in Indian-American, Soviet-American, and Vietnamese-American families where the acculturation gap exists.\n\nResearchers found that the acculturation gap between East Asian-American generations is negatively correlated with parent-youth relationships. This disconnection leads to different mental health problems among the youth.\n\nStudies were conducted in the American Southwest, where there are many children with Mexican ancestry, to see how these children's home and parental values clash with the values of their peers at school. Studies have shown that higher levels of acculturation correlate with delinquency—the existence of a gap can increase the likelihood of children participating in deviant behaviors.\n\nStudies with Mexican-American youth and parents also reflect similar data that remains inconclusive. The study notes that in the American Southwest, Mexican culture is prevalent and the close proximity to Mexico may play a role in the results.\n\nMinimal research has been done to see the impact of the acculturation gap on parents compared to adolescents. However, one study has found that there is a link between Hispanic adults that have low acculturation rates and an increased risk of poor low-density lipoprotein cholesterol control.\n\nConfounding variables (such as income and stability) exist in evaluations that connect the acculturation gap and family conflict. Therefore, the acculturation gap hypothesis needs further testing.\n\nFurthermore, migration and work add to family stresses. Immigrants parents in the United States typically have longer work days and are away from their children more. These details must be addressed in future studies.\n\nUnderstanding the acculturation gap is important because minority population in the US continues to grow. Further research regarding the connection of acculturation gaps to family conflict could produce methods of to prevent conflict and treat those affected.\n"}
{"id": "34308546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34308546", "title": "Arcadia Watches", "text": "Arcadia Watches\n\nArcadia Watches is a Swiss brand of luxury watches established in 1858. In 1968 the brand ceased following a decline caused by the introduction of quartz movements. It was relaunched in 2007 by Claude Sanz, owner and President of Maison Bunter based in Geneva, and the first new Arcadia watch, the AC01, entered the market in 2010.\n\nThe Arcadia brand originated in Fleurier, a small village in Val-de-Travers region of the Canton of Neuchâtel in Switzerland. Watchmaker Jules-Samuel Jequier was born in 1835 in Fleurier and joined Bovet after training as a jewel-cutter and quickly climbed up the company ladder. In 1858 he founded Arcadia and positioned it as the top-of the-line among the five watchmaking brands of the Fleurier Watch Company, a manufacturer established in 1915. The company specialised in jewel cutting and designing watch calibers and had federated watchmaking farmers into working cooperatively. Fleurier Watch Company supplied movements for over a century to many watch brands.\nWhile Arcadia had started off producing movements, this was followed several years later by a watch line. Arcadia was in fact one of the earliest brands to sell its watches around the world, including China and South America, and it was a creative, avant-garde brand that became the flagship of the Fleurier Watch Company.\n\nThe brand sold watches until 1968, when, like so many mechanical watch companies, the advent of inexpensive quartz models led to its demise.\n\nIn 2007 Claude Sanz re-launched the brand. Sanz is President and owner of jewellery watch house Bunter SA, based in a 17th-century farmhouse just outside Geneva. Claude is a trained geologist and mineralogist, a self-taught watchmaker and a 33-year watch industry veteran. His name is well known in watchmaking circles.\n\nBunter SA, works behind the scenes for companies that customized gem-set high-complication mechanical watches for some of the watch industry’s most prestigious brands. Bunter is responsible for the invisibly set baguette diamond watches that are exhibited at every Basel Fair.\nSanz bought the Arcadia brand several years ago, and it was the enthusiasm of a few friends and his own team at Bunter that in 2007 to set the wheels of rebirth in motion. The relaunch of Arcadia has led to it restarting the Fleurier Watch Company, which is temporarily based in Geneva with all movements assembled there. \nAll sixty of Bunter’s employees worked on the first Arcadia watch, the AC01 chronograph, at different times for a few hours per day performing varied watchmaking crafts, such as design and case-making or movement assembly. In steel and titanium, a limited edition of 275 pieces launched in January 2010 at the Geneva Time Exhibition.\n\n\n\nArcadia calibers were highly innovative for their time, and the Fleurier Watch Company was considered one of the international ambassadors of Swiss watchmaking.\nSanz’s ultimate plan is to restart production of Arcadia movements in the town of Fleurier , with redesigned and redeveloped calibres that can replace ETA movements. His concept is about simplicity and quality and Sanz considers it important to manufacture Arcadia movements that work well, and to create watches that are reliable and last and that can be passed on through generations. With this in mind, and using modern technology and manufacturing techniques, the Fleurier Watch Company is now well underway with design and prototyping of future calibres.\nThe first watch to be made completely in-house is due in 2012, a 14 ligne manually wound movement. A ladies’ gem set jewellery timepiece is also due in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "23042174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23042174", "title": "Beit Ben-Yehuda", "text": "Beit Ben-Yehuda\n\nBeit Ben-Yehuda is a historical home built in Arnona-Talpiot Neighborhood in Jerusalem for Eliezer Ben Yehuda, known as \"the reviver of the Hebrew language\".\nEliezer died in December 16th 1922 a short time before the house was completed.\nHis wife Chemda lived in the house until her death in 1951. Over the years Chemda turned the place into a commemoration center of Ben-Yehuda's life achievement.\nA few years later the family of Ben-Yehuda donated the house to the Municipality of Jerusalem.\nIn 1965 the municipality rented the house to private residents and in 1971 Jerusalem's former mayor Teddy Kollek decided to hand it over to Action Reconciliation Service for Peace (Aktion Sühnezeichen Friedensdienste in German or ASF), a volunteer organization based in Germany.\nIn 2004 a new wing was built in the backyard of the house in order to be used as a seminar center for the German volunteers.\nIn the same year the decision was made to found \"Beit Ben Yehuda\" as the International Meeting Center and Guesthouse we have today. The ambitious goal to establish a guesthouse that opens its doors for everyone and to create a place that is a cultural center for learning was set. With a focal point on German-Israeli relations we do offer a variety of different seminars, workshops, lectures, language courses and other events on historical, sociological, political and cultural topics, such as German, Hebrew and Yiddish courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "33972790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33972790", "title": "Botel", "text": "Botel\n\nA botel is a boat that serves as a hotel or hostel. The word is a portmanteau of boat and hotel. \n\nBotels may range from small or larger purpose-built or converted boats or other watercraft, to converted ships. They may be permanently moored or grounded, or spend part of the year taking guests on tours.\n\nAlexander von Humboldt (ship) was built in the early 1900s, and after century of sailing the seas was coverted to botel floating in Bremen. Another converted sailing ship is the Viking (barque), floated in Sweden\n\n"}
{"id": "338710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338710", "title": "Conference", "text": "Conference\n\nA conference is a meeting of people who \"confer\" about a topic. Conference types include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8950930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950930", "title": "Cultural memory", "text": "Cultural memory\n\nBecause memory is not just an individual, private experience but is also part of the collective domain, cultural memory has become a topic in both historiography (Pierre Nora, Richard Terdiman) and cultural studies (e.g., Susan Stewart). These emphasize cultural memory’s process (historiography) and its implications and objects (cultural studies), respectively. Two schools of thought have emerged, one articulates that the present shapes our understanding of the past. The other assumes that the past has an influence on our present behavior.\n\nCrucial in understanding cultural memory as a phenomenon is the distinction between memory and history. This distinction was put forward by Pierre Nora, who pinpointed a niche in-between history and memory.\n\nScholars disagree as to when to locate the moment representation 'took over'. Nora points to the formation of European nation states. For Richard Terdiman, the French revolution is the breaking point: the change of a political system, together with the emergence of industrialization and urbanization, made life more complex than ever before. This not only resulted in an increasing difficulty for people to understand the new society in which they were living, but also, as this break was so radical, people had trouble relating to the past \"before\" the revolution. In this situation, people no longer had an implicit understanding of their past. In order to understand the past, it had to be represented through history. As people realized that history was only one version of the past, they became more and more concerned with their own cultural heritage (in French called \"patrimoine\") which helped them shape a collective and national identity. In search for an identity to bind a country or people together, governments have constructed collective memories in the form of commemorations which should bring and keep together minority groups and individuals with conflicting agendas. What becomes clear is that the obsession with memory coincides with the fear of forgetting and the aim for authenticity.\n\nHowever, more recently questions have arisen whether there ever was a time in which 'pure', non-representational memory existed – as Nora in particular put forward. Scholars like Tony Bennett rightly point out that representation is a crucial precondition for human perception in general: pure, organic and objective memories can never be witnessed as such.\n\nIt is because of a sometimes too contracted conception of memory as just a temporal phenomenon, that the concept of cultural memory has often been exposed to misunderstanding. Nora pioneered connecting memory to physical, tangible locations, nowadays globally known and incorporated as \"lieux de mémoire\". He certifies these in his work as \"mises en abîme\"; entities that symbolize a more complex piece of our history. Although he concentrates on a spatial approach to remembrance, Nora already points out in his early historiographical theories that memory goes beyond just tangible and visual aspects, thereby making it flexible and in flux. This rather problematic notion, also characterized by Terdiman as the 'omnipresence' of memory, implies that for instance on a sensory level, a smell or a sound can become of cultural value, due to its commemorative effect.\n\nEither in visualized or abstracted form, one of the largest complications of memorializing our past is the inevitable fact that it is absent. Every memory we try to reproduce becomes – as Terdiman states – a 'present past'. It is this impractical desire for recalling what is gone forever that brings to surface a feeling of nostalgia, noticeable in many aspects of daily life but most specifically in cultural products.\n\nRecently, interest has developed in the area of 'embodied memory'. According to Paul Connerton the body can also be seen as a container, or carrier of memory, of two different types of social practice; inscribing and incorporating. The former includes all activities which are helpful for storing and retrieving information: photographing, writing, taping, etc. The latter implies skilled performances which are sent by means of physical activity, like a spoken word or a handshake. These performances are accomplished by the individual in an unconscious manner, and one might suggest that this memory carried in gestures and habits, is more authentic than 'indirect' memory via inscribing.\n\nThe first conceptions of embodied memory, in which the past is 'situated' in the body of the individual, derive from late nineteenth century thoughts of evolutionists like Jean Baptiste Lamarck and Ernst Haeckel. Lamarck’s law of inheritance of acquired characteristics and Haeckel's theory of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny, suggested that the individual is a summation of the whole history that had preceded him or her. (However, neither of these concepts is accepted by current science.)\n\nMemory can, for instance, be contained in objects. Souvenirs and photographs inhabit an important place in the cultural memory discourse. Several authors stress the fact that the relationship between memory and objects has changed since the nineteenth century. Stewart, for example, claims that our culture has changed from a culture of production to a culture of consumption. Products, according to Terdiman, have lost 'the memory of their own process' now, in times of mass-production and commodification. At the same time, he claims, the connection between memories and objects has been institutionalized and exploited in the form of trade in souvenirs. These specific objects can refer to either a distant time (an antique) or a distant (exotic) place. Stewart explains how our souvenirs authenticate our experiences and how they are a survival sign of events that exist only through the invention of narrative.\n\nThis notion can easily be applied to another practice that has a specific relationship with memory: photography. Catherine Keenan explains how the act of taking a picture can underline the importance of remembering, both individually and collectively. Also she states that pictures cannot only stimulate or help memory, but can rather eclipse the actual memory – when we remember in terms of the photograph – or they can serve as a reminder of our propensity to forget. Others have argued that photographs can be incorporated in memory and therefore supplement it.\n\nEdward Chaney has coined the term 'Cultural Memorials' to describe both generic types, such as obelisks or sphinxes, and specific objects, such as the Obelisk of Domitian, Abu Simbel or 'The Young Memnon', which have meanings attributed to them that evolve over time. Readings of ancient Egyptian artefacts by Herodotus, Pliny, the Collector Earl of Arundel, 18th-century travellers, Napoleon, Shelley, William Bankes, Harriet Martineau, Florence Nightingale or Sigmund and Lucian Freud, reveal a range of interpretations variously concerned with reconstructing the intentions of their makers.\n\nAs a contrast to the sometimes generative nature of previously mentioned studies on cultural memory, an alternative 'school' with its origins in gender and postcolonial studies underscored the importance of the individual and particular memories of those unheard in most collective accounts: women, minorities, homosexuals, etc.\n\nExperience, whether it be lived or imagined, relates mutually to culture and memory. It is influenced by both factors, but determines these at the same time. Culture influences experience by offering mediated perceptions that affect it, as Frigga Haug states by opposing conventional theory on femininity to lived memory. In turn, as historians such as Neil Gregor have argued, experience affects culture, since individual experience becomes communicable and therefore collective. A memorial, for example, can represent a shared sense of loss.\n\nThe influence of memory is made obvious in the way the past is experienced in present conditions, for – according to Paul Connerton, for instance – it can never be eliminated from human practice. On the other hand, it is perception driven by a longing for authenticity that colors memory, which is made clear by a desire to experience the real (Susan Stewart). Experience, therefore, is substantial to the interpretation of culture as well as memory, and vice versa.\n\nTraumatic transmissions are articulated over time not only through social sites or institutions but also through cultural, political, and familial generations, a key social mechanism of continuity and renewal across human groups, cohorts, and communities. The intergenerational transmission of collective trauma is a well-established phenomenon in the scholarly literature on psychological, familial, sociocultural, and biological modes of transmission. Ordinary processes of remembering and transmission can be understood as cultural practices by which people recognize a lineage, a debt to their past, and through which \"they express moral continuity with that past.\" The intergenerational preservation, transformation, and transmutation of traumatic memory such as of genocide tragic historical legacy can be assimilated, redeemed, and transformed.\n\nRecent research and theorizing in cultural memory has emphasized the importance of considering the content of cultural identities in understanding the study of social relations and predicting cultural attitudes.\n\nThe Institute of Germanic & Romance Studies, School of Advanced Study, University of London, has developed its MA degree around the above-mentioned topics.\n\nThe MA in Cultural Memory has now been running for 10 years. This unique degree explores the many different ways in which culture is based on the construction, manipulation and transmission of memories, and the role played by memory in collective and individual identity formation.\n\nThe degree programme is supplemented by a Cultural Memory Seminar and by the new Centre for the Study of Cultural Memory.\n\nIn 2008, the first issue of quarterly journal \"Memory Studies\" concerning subjects of and relating to cultural memory was published by SAGE.\n\nJan Assmann in his book \"Das kulturelle Gedächtnis\", drew further upon Maurice Halbwachs's theory on collective memory. Other scholars like Andreas Huyssen have identified a general interest in memory and mnemonics since the early 1980s, illustrated by phenomena as diverse as memorials and retro-culture. Some might see cultural memory as becoming more democratic, due to liberalization and the rise of new media. Others see cultural memory as remaining concentrated in the hands of corporations and states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14641827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14641827", "title": "Cut and sew", "text": "Cut and sew\n\nThe term cut and sew is used to denote a garment that has been customized from raw fabric rather than one that has been purchased from a third-party supplier and then screenprinted or altered.\n\nThe term is prevalent in the urban fashion industry, where designers can either have a design screenprinted on a pre-made garment, such as a t-shirt or hooded sweatshirt, or have the entire garment created from scratch. In the latter case, the designer of the graphic also played a role in the creation of the t-shirt itself. Cut and sew garments are generally of higher quality and price than a standard mass-produced item. Brands like A Bathing Ape, Diamond Supply Co., Marc Ecko and Kanati Clothing Company have 'cut and sew' lines, which are most commonly items like button up shirts and other higher end clothing items instead of items like t-shirts.\n"}
{"id": "56496980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56496980", "title": "Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels (Bellini, Berlin)", "text": "Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels (Bellini, Berlin)\n\nDead Christ Supported by Two Angels is a tempera on panel painting by Giovanni Bellini, now in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. It is dated to 1465-1470, as shown by similarities to his 1464 \"San Vincenzo Ferrer Polyptych\", an early mature work.\n\n"}
{"id": "7807568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7807568", "title": "Emblem of Qatar", "text": "Emblem of Qatar\n\nThe emblem of Qatar () is the coat of arms of Qatar.\n\nThe emblem shows two crossed white curved swords in a yellow circle. Between the swords there is a sailing ship (dhow) sailing on blue and white waves beside an island with two palm trees. The circle is surrounded by a round doughnut-shaped object, which is divided horizontally. In the white section the name of the state of Qatar is written in black Kufic script and in the maroon section, the English (the only among Arab states) translation (State of Qatar) is written in white Blackletter script. The coat of arms is sometimes shown without the English translation, the middle circle is occasionally yellow and the curved swords are sometimes brown (instead of white).\n\nThe current version was introduced in 1976 and replaced another one, which was used since 1966, and consisted of two curved swords, one pearl shell and two palm tree-branches with the label \"Qatar\".\n\nSeveral elements of the emblem are featured in national emblems of several Middle Eastern countries: the traditional Arab curved sword is also present in the coats of arms of Saudi Arabia and Oman; the dhow is in the coat of arms of Kuwait and the former coat of arms of the United Arab Emirates. The palm tree is also a national symbol of Saudi Arabia. The colors and the separation of the outside ring come from the flag of Qatar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18419259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18419259", "title": "Friday, or, The Other Island", "text": "Friday, or, The Other Island\n\nFriday, or, The Other Island () is a 1967 novel by French writer Michel Tournier. It retells Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\". The first edition of the book was published 15 March 1967. It won that year's Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française.\n\nIn 1971, Tournier rewrote the book, adapting it for younger readers, under the title \"Vendredi ou la Vie sauvage\".\n\nThe young Robinson Crusoe is shipwrecked on a desert island that he names \"Speranza\" (Hope). Crusoe tries to civilize and control the nature of the island, but is redeemed by the appearance of \"Araucanian\" whom he names as Friday. Because of the deep change that happens in Crusoe during the stay, he finally does not want to return from the island, while Friday does.\n\n"}
{"id": "23857421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23857421", "title": "Gerald the Fearless", "text": "Gerald the Fearless\n\nGeraldo Geraldes or Gerald the Fearless (died prob. 1173), known in Portuguese as Geraldo \"Sem Pavor\" (\"without fear\"), was a Portuguese warrior and folk hero of the \"Reconquista\" whose theatre of operations was in the barren Alentejo and Extremadura regions of the lower Guadiana river. The city of Évora was the most lasting of his conquests and was never retaken. His success and independence have suggested parallels with the Castilian hero El Cid and Gerald has been called \"the Cid of Portugal\".\n\nAround 1162 Gerald assembled a private army (a \"mesnada\") and rapidly developed tactics that proved remarkably successful in seizing Muslim strongholds, though it was not adapted for siege warfare. He \"perfected techniques of nocturnal surprise in wintry or stormy weather, stealthy escalading of walls by picked commando-like troops, cutting down of sentries and opening of town gates to the larger force stationed without.\" Among the primary sources for Gerald's methods the most important is the contemporary Arabic chronicler Ibn Ṣāḥib al-Ṣalā, whose \"Al-Mann bil-Imāma\" was incorporated into the history of al-Maqqarī in the seventeenth century. His opinion of Gerald and his tactics is very low:\n\nThe dog [Gerald] marched on rainy and very dark nights, with strong wind and snow, towards the cities and, having prepared his wooden instruments of scaling [walls] very large, so that they would surpass the wall of the city, he would apply those ladders to the side of the tower and catch the sentinel [by surprise] and say to him: \"Shout, as is your custom,\" in order that the people would not hear him. When the scaling of the group had been completed on the highest wall in the city, they shouted in their language with an abominable screech, and they entered the city and fought whom they found and robbed them and captured all who were there in [the city, taking] captive and prisoner all who were there.\nOf the places Gerald conquered the primary sources are in general agreement, also as to the order of their seizure, but as to the dating of events there is ambiguity. Ibn Ṣāḥib's version goes:\nIn the second \"Jumada al-awwal\" [15 April–13 May] of the \"anno Hegirae\" 560 [1165] the city of Trujillo was surprised, and in \"Dhu al-Qi'dah\" the notable village of Évora. Also was the population of Cáceres in \"Safar\" 561 [1166], and the castle of Montánchez in \"Jumada al-thani\" and the strongholds of Serpa and Juromenha.\n\nThe years 560 and 561 correspond roughly to the \"annos Domini\" 1165 and 1166, but here Ibn Ṣāḥib is almost certainly off in his dating by a year. The events rather took place in 1164 and 1165. A later Portuguese chronicle, the \"Crónica dos Godos\" (\"Chronicle of the Goths\"), dates the conquest of Évora to the year 1204 of the Spanish era, that is, 1166. Trujillo was taken on 14 May 1164, or in June; Évora in September 1164; and Cáceres in December 1164 or, on a later dating, in September 1166. These were the major conquests. The lesser conquests of Montánchez, Serpa, and Juromenha took place in 1165, based on Ibn Ṣāḥib's scheme, but Montánchez and Serpa may have gone in March 1167, as one historian has it. All the primary sources agree that Santa Cruz de la Sierra was the last of Gerald's successes, which may place it as late as 1169, though perhaps earlier (1167/8), along with Ureña. The conquest of these last two places left Gerald in a position to harass Beja. The date of the capture of Monfragüe, which was certainly one of his conquests, cannot be established. \n\nSo successful was Gerald by 1168 that his eastward expansion threatened the southward expansion of the Kingdom of León. These actions were in violation of the succession arrangements laid down by Alfonso VII at Sahagún, since they comprised lands whose conquest had been assigned to León. A few of Gerald's conquests in the far east had even been assigned to Castile. The Leonese king, Ferdinand II, son of Alfonso VII, took action immediately after the taking of Cáceres, probably early in the spring of 1166, capturing Alcántara later that year and thus securing a crossing over the Tagus. Subsequently he allied with the Almohad caliph Yusuf I, who had warned him of Gerald and the Portuguese's encroachments on his interests.\n\nIn the early summer of 1169, Gerald took the \"taifa\" and city of Badajoz after a long siege, but the garrison took refuge in the citadel, the \"alcazaba\", the siege of which continued. Seeing an opportunity to add to his domains the chief city of the region at the expense of both his Muslim and Christian enemies, Afonso I of Portugal came with an army to Badajoz to relieve his nominal vassal. This provoked the opposition of Ferdinand of León, who claimed Badajoz as his own and came south with an army at the request of Yusuf, who had already sent a contingent of 500 cavalry to assist the garrison. The besieging Portuguese were themselves besieged by the Leonese and fighting broke out in the streets. While trying to flee, Afonso was caught on the hinge of a gate and flung from his horse, breaking his leg. He was captured by Ferdinand's men, while Gerald was captured by the Leonese majordomo, Fernán Ruiz de Castro, called \"el Castellano\" (\"the Castilian\"). He was an important person at court, who for a while held the highest military post in the capital (\"tenente turris Legionis\", \"possessing the tower of León\"). He was the king's brother-in-law, being married to Stephanie the Unfortunate, an illegitimate daughter of Alfonso VII by his second mistress, Urraca Fernández, and thus a half-sister of Ferdinand II. After the mêlée the Leonese had control of the town and the \"alcazaba\", which they soon relinquished to their Muslim allies. Ferdinand succeeded in gaining the valley of the upper Limia and the regions of Toroño (around Tuy), Capraria (around Verín), and Lobarzana (around Chaves) from Afonso in exchange for his release. Several of Gerald's conquests were ceded to purchase his freedom. Ferdinand retained Cáceres, but Trujillo, Montánchez, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and Monfragüe he gave to Fernán Ruiz.\n\nIn 1171 and 1172, while Yusuf was waging war on Valencia and Murcia, general anarchy prevailed in the Extremadura as Leonese, Portuguese, and Almohad troops fought for supremacy. Gerald took advantage of Yusuf's absence to conquer Beja in the Alentejo (1172). When he and Afonso disagree over whether to hold the site or raze it, Gerald—\"impoverished and bereft of all aid\" —went to Seville to put himself in the service of the caliph. To keep him away from Portugal he was sent to Morocco with 350 troops. There he received the governorship of \"al-Sūs\" (the plains and mountains of southern Morocco), but soon entered into negotiations with his former monarch concerning the use of al-Sūs as a base for a Portuguese invasion. When his correspondence was intercepted, he was arrested and put to death. The \"Chronica latina regum castellae\", a Latin Christian chronicle, summarises Gerald's career in one paragraph at the end of its tenth chapter:\n\nAlso then [at the capture of Afonso I at Badajoz] was captured Gerald, alias \"without fear\", who was given over to Rodrigo Fernández , the Castilian, to whom, in exchange for his liberty, Gerald handed over Montánchez, Trujillo, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and Monfragüe, which the same Gerald had gained from the Saracens, to whom he had caused much damage, and by whom he was decapitated in Moroccan territory on a laughable pretext.\n\nThe chief source for Gerald's negotiations with the caliph and his death in Morocco is Ibn `Idhārī al-Marrākushī's \"Al-Bayān al-Mugrib\". Many of the cities and castles that Gerald captured with ease were later re-conquered by the Almohads, who improved their fortifications so much that they were not taken by the Christians again until the next century. Cáceres was besieged four times without success (1184, 1213, 1218, and 1222) and is usually referred to as a \"castrum famossum\" (\"famous castle\") or \"muy fuerte castillo\" (\"very strong castle\") in Christian sources, although it had fallen relatively easily to Gerald. Trujillo was not taken by the Christians again until 1234. The defences of Badajoz were completely reworked after 1169 and those that survive today are almost entirely of the Almohad period; the city only fell to the Christians permanently in 1226.\n\nGerald left his mark on the toponymy of the Extremadura. A document of the Order of Calatrava of 1218 refers to the \"cabeza de giraldo\" (\"head of Gerald\") as a place, without indicating where it lay. Two streams, the Geradillo and the Geraldo, the first flowing from the second and into the Tagus, are also named after Gerald. The region where the stream originates is in the highlands around Casas de Miravete, which is quite possibly the site of the \"cabeza\".\n\nThe legends which later arose surrounding Gerald are given concise retelling by , a French translator:\n\nHe was a man of rank, who, in order to avoid the legal punishment to which several crimes rendered him obnoxious, put himself at the head of a party of freebooters. Tiring, however, of that life, he resolved to reconcile himself to his sovereign by some noble action. Full of this idea, one evening he entered Évora, which then belonged to the Moors. In the night he killed the sentinels of one of the gates, which he opened to his companions, who soon became masters of the place. This exploit had its desired effect. The king pardoned Gerald, and made him governor of Évora. A knight with a sword in one hand, and two heads in the other, from that time became the armorial bearing of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18794766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18794766", "title": "Greubel Forsey", "text": "Greubel Forsey\n\nGreubel Forsey is a watchmaking company specializing in ultra high-end timepieces. It was launched in 2004 by Robert Greubel and Stephen Forsey and is based in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland. \n\nGreubel Forsey specialize in inventing timepieces with multiple tourbillons and inclined balance wheels with the aim of improving timekeeping precision. Their approach was validated in 2011 when a Greubel Forsey Double Tourbillon Technique won the 2011 International Chronometry Competition held by the Le Locle Museum of Horology.\n\nRobert Greubel and Stephen Forsey launched Greubel Forsey in 2004 at BaselWorld with the introduction of their \"Double Tourbillon 30° (DT30)\". Both men had been working together since 1992 at Renaud & Papi, where they developed complicated watch movements. \n\nThe Richemont group acquired a 20% stake in Greubel Forsey’s share capital in 2006. \n\nIn 2006 the company collaborated with American jeweller Harry Winston to make the \"Opus 6\" model.\n\nThe company has invented and presented a number of tourbillon-based watches including: the \"Double Tourbillon 30° (DT30°)\", the \"Quadruple Tourbillon à Différentiel\", the \"Tourbillon 24 Secondes Incliné\" and the \"GMT\". At the 2012 SIHH Greubel Forsey presented their first non-tourbillon model, the \"Double Balancier 35°\".\n\nGreubel Forsey specializes in designing and manufacturing high-end watches that are usually, but not exclusively, based on the Tourbillon escapement.\n\nDouble Tourbillon 30° (DT30°) Vision/Secret\nThe DT30° was presented in 2004 and features one 30° inclined tourbillon cage rotating once per minute inside another tourbillon cage rotating in four minutes. The company claims rotating one inclined Tourbillon inside another averages out and minimizes gravitationally induced errors on the balance.\n\nThe Quadruple Tourbillon uses two double-tourbillons—four tourbillon cages in total—working independently to average out and minimize gravitationally induced errors on the balance. A spherical differential connects the four rotating carriages, distributing torque between two wheels rotating at different speeds.\n\nThe Quadruple Tourbillon Secret, presented in 2012, houses a modified Quadruple Tourbillon ‘hidden’ under a full dial. The movement can be seen through the display back and the two double tourbillon systems—with four tourbillons in all—are configured head-to-tail and are coupled by a spherical differential.\n\nPresented in 2011, the GMT is the first Greubel Forsey timepiece to feature a complication other than a tourbillon. It displays a second time zone at 10 o’clock and the world by a rotating, three-dimensional globe at 8 o’clock. The position of the continents on the titanium globe are cross-referenced with the 24-hour chapter ring circling it for an approximate indication of time all over the world. Other indications include an hour-minute dial at 1 o’clock, a small seconds dial on top of that at 3 o’clock and at 4 o’clock a sectorial power reserve indicator. The movement was especially developed for this timepiece and features the 25° inclined Tourbillon 24 Secondes cage.\n\nThe Tourbillon 24 Secondes Contemporain, launched in 2012, has royal blue titanium plates and bridges with the movement architecture emphasising the technical aspects of the movement. A 24-second tourbillon is suspended by a transparent synthetic sapphire tourbillon. The T24 Second Contemporain is also notable for its round case, as opposed to the asymmetrical cases that Greubel Forsey are better known for.\n\nThe Double Balancier 35° features two inclined fixed-oscillators coupled with a spherical differential, which provides the average of their rates to the gear train and time display. Between the two visible inclined balances, small seconds at 7 o’clock displays the running instantaneous average of the two regulators, while a 72-hour power reserve indicator at 2 o’clock keeps track of available power.\n\nArt Piece 1 is a collaboration between Robert Greubel and Stephen Forsey with British micro-sculptor Willard Wigan. Art Piece 1 features integrated magnifying optics on the side of the case to enable the Willard Wigan micro-sculpture to be viewed.\n\nInvention Pieces are designed to showcase the important invention/mechanism in the movement rather than simply indicating the time.\n\nInvention Piece 1 (IP1) 2007\nInvention Piece 1 features the Double Tourbillon 30° mechanism with a new movement architecture. Red and blue triangles indicate the time under a large polished tourbillon bridge, with a small seconds dial and a ‘power reserve indicator’ above.\n\nInvention Piece 2 (IP2) 2011\nThe Quadruple Tourbillon mechanism is at the heart of Invention Piece 2. The two double tourbillon systems are configured head-to-tail and are coupled by a spherical differential. A sub-dial at 5 o’clock features a red triangle indicating hours while a concentrically-configured rotating disc indicates minutes. Small seconds are at 10 o'clock and there is a power reserve indicator at 11 o'clock.\n\nInvention Piece 3 (IP3) 2009\nThe Tourbillon 24 Secondes is the mechanism highlighted by Invention Piece 3. A large 24-hour sub-dial dominates the dial side, with hours indicated by a red triangle. A smaller blue triangle indicates minutes. Small seconds are at 5 o’clock. Opposite the tourbillon at 8 o’clock lies a power reserve at 2 o’clock. Four gold dial plates on the dial are engraved with a message in French from Robert Greubel and Stephen Forsey.\n\nThe company presented in 2005 a proprietary development methodology called EWT (Experimental Watch Technology) to experiment, test and ratify their projects in-house. It's a proprietary research and development platform. It incorporates its own laboratory.\n\nTwo inventions current in EWT are the ‘\"Binomial\"’, a mono-material balance-and-spring wheel combination mechanism using isochronically stable materials, and the \"Différentiel d’Egalité\", a constant force device based in a spherical differential. This differential keeps providing the same constant force to all the four tourbillons, solving the typical problem where the main spring gives different amount of force depending on how much potential energy it retains.\n\nGreubel Forsey won the Gaïa Prize in 2009 for 'Entrepreneurship'; the Grand Prix de l’Aiguille d’Or at the Grand Prix de l’Horlogerie de Genève in 2010 for the Double Tourbillon 30° Édition Historique in 5N red gold; and the International Chronometry Competition in 2011 for the Double Tourbillon 30 Technique. \n\nOther awards include: Invention Piece 1 won the 2007 Revolution magazine prize for 'Grand Complication Watch'. Montres Passion magazine awarded the 2007 'Special Jury Prize – Watch of the Year' for the Tourbillon 24 Secondes.\n\nRevolution magazine awarded the Quadruple Tourbillon the 2008 prize for best 'Technical Achievement' and in 2009 it also won the prize for best 'Complication Watch' from the Grand Prix d’Horlogerie Asia. The Double Tourbillon 30° Technique received the 2009 'Grand Complication Watch' prize at the Grand Prix d’Horlogerie de Genève. Invention Piece 2 was awarded the 2011 prize for “Limited Edition Watch of the Year” at the World Watch Awards in India and at the same ceremony, Stephen Forsey received an award for his “Contribution to Haute Horlogerie”. \nThe Invention Piece 2 was later awarded the Grand Prix d'Horlogerie de Genève 2012 (GPHG) award for Best Complicated Watch.\n\nIn 2012, Le Garde Temps, la Naissance d’une Montre (the timepiece, birth of a watch) non-profit initiative was launched by Robert at the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie (SIHH) in Geneva.\n\n“Le garde-temps, naissance d’une montre” is a project by Robert Greubel, Stephen Forsey and independent watchmaker Philippe Dufour. The aim of the project is to preserve and propagate traditional horological knowledge and experience by teaching and helping master watchmaker and watchmaking teacher, Michel Boulanger, to make a small series of timepieces by hand using traditional techniques and methods.\n\nRobert Greubel grew up in Alsace, France and began his horological career by working with his watchmaker father in the family shop, Greubel Horlogerie. In 1987 Greubel moved to Switzerland to join the International Watch Company (IWC), where he helped develop their Grand Complication. In 1990 he joined Renaud & Papi SA (now Audemars Piguet Renaud & Papi SA) as a prototypist for complicated movements and rose to become managing director and partner. \n\nStephen Forsey grew up in St Albans, England, where he was inspired by his father's passion for mechanics and engineering. From 1987 to 1992 Forsey specialized in antique clock restoration and became head of Watch Restoration at Asprey’s in London. From 1988 to 1990 Forsey attended two five-month courses at the WOSTEP watchmaking school in Neuchâtel and in 1992 joined Robert Greubel's team at Renaud & Papi SA (now Audemars Piguet Renaud & Papi SA), developing complicated watch movements.\n\nIn 1999 both Greubel and Forsey began working independently, and in 2001 they founded together Complitime SA, a company specializing in created mechanisms with complicated movements for up-market watch brands.\n\nAt the world watch fair at BaselWorld in 2004, after many years in development, Robert Greubel and Stephen Forsey launched their first watch, the Double Tourbillion 30° (DT30°), under their own brand ‘Greubel Forsey’.\n\nRobert Greubel and Stephen Forsey are founding members of the Time aeon Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "39876666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39876666", "title": "Haikhani", "text": "Haikhani\n\nHaikhani is the name of a small Punjabi Muslim tribe originating principally in West Punjab, originally concentrated in some parts of Lahore.\n\nIn accordance to their traditions, the Haikhani are descended from Ghaznavid Pashtuns.\n"}
{"id": "1764568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1764568", "title": "Here be dragons", "text": "Here be dragons\n\n\"Here be dragons\" means dangerous or unexplored territories, in imitation of a medieval practice of putting illustrations of dragons, sea-monsters and other mythological creatures on uncharted areas of maps.\n\nAlthough several early maps, such as the \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\", have illustrations of mythological creatures for decoration, the phrase itself is an anachronism. There are just two known historical uses of this phrase in the Latin form \"HC SVNT DRACONES\" (i.e. \"hic sunt dracones,\" 'here are dragons'). One is on the Hunt–Lenox Globe (c. 1503–07), on which the term appeared around the east coast of Asia. This might be related to the Komodo dragons on the Indonesian islands, tales of which were quite common throughout East Asia. The other appearance of the term is on a globe engraved on two conjoined halves of ostrich eggs, dated to 1504. Earlier maps contain a variety of references to mythical and real creatures, but the Lenox Globe and the egg globe are the only known surviving maps to bear this phrase. Furthermore, the two maps may be closely linked: an investigation of the egg globe performed by collector Stefaan Missinne concluded that the Hunt–Lenox Globe is in fact a cast of it.\n\"'Here be dragons,' [is] a very interesting sentence,\" said Thomas Sander, editor of the \"Portolan\", the journal of the Washington Map Society. \"In early maps, you would see images of sea monsters; it was a way to say there's bad stuff out there.\"\n\nThe classical phrase used by ancient Roman and Medieval cartographers was \"HIC SVNT LEONES\" (literally, \"here are lions\") when denoting unknown territories on maps.\n\nDragons appear on a few other historical maps:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45240959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45240959", "title": "Hip-hop in academia", "text": "Hip-hop in academia\n\nHip hop studies is a multidisciplinary field of study that encompasses sociology, anthropology, communication and rhetoric studies, religious studies, cultural studies, critical race theory, missiological studies, art history, dance, musicology, ethnomusicology, music theory, and gender studies. The term \"hip hop studies\" began circulating in the mid-2000s, and though it is not clear who first coined the term to label the field, the field of hip hop studies is oft cited as having been crystallized by the publication of \"That's the Joint!: The Hip Hop Studies Reader\" in 2003. \"That's the Joint!\" includes approximately 25 years of scholarship, criticism, and journalism. The publication of this anthology was unprecedented, and highlights the evolving and continuous influence of \"one of the most creative and contested elements of global popular culture since its advent in the late 1970s.\" The publication of the first edition of \"That's the Joint!\" marked a consolidating moment for the field of hip hop studies because it brought together key writings on hip hop from a diversity of hip hop authorities.\n\nHip hop culture, rooted in the 1970s post-industrial South Bronx, is polyvocal and is represented in five cultural modes: rap music (oral), turntablism or \"DJing\" (aural), breaking (physical), graffiti art (visual), and knowledge (mental). Hip hop has, and continues to produce a remarkable array of thinkers who embody complex ideological makeups exemplified through their performances as writers, artists, poets, and scholars. In \"Hip Hop Matters\" (2005), professor and media scholar S. Craig Watkins labels the increasing interdisciplinary cohort of hip hop academics and scholars as the \"hip-hop intelligentsia,\" and suggests that while this group of individuals may not often been discussed as an entity in and of itself, their existence is, without question, one of the greatest achievements of the hip hop movement. Watkins writes: \"The growing array of hip-hop intellectuals is a spectacular indication of the movement's multifaceted demeanor and ceaseless energy...What has emerged is a body of thinkers who articulate a wide range of ideas that, in their unique way, map out the contradictory currents, ideas, and worldview that percolate throughout the phenomenal world of hip hop. From spoken-word artists to academic scholars hip-hop intellectuals are translating the movement into a vast mix of critical commentary and artistic expression. The results both energize and expand the image and imagination of the hip-hop intelligentsia.\" \nHip hop studies is part of the larger hip hop movement. The research and teaching in this interdisciplinary field includes analyses of technology, pop culture, linguistics, globalization, geography, race, electoral politics, and a variety of aspects related to contemporary culture, as scholars attempt to critically assess hip hop as a movement. Scholarship in hip hop studies is rooted in the foundational, Afro-diasporic call-and-response mechanism within hip hop culture.\n\nHip hop studies' methodologies, or methods of systematic inquiry and analysis, are drawn from a range of academic disciplines including anthropology, sociology, political science, history, linguistics, economics, performance studies, media and communicative studies, American studies, musicology, English and literature, women's and gender studies, and black studies. Greg Dimitriadis, formerly a professor in the Graduate School of Education at the University of Buffalo, was an academic who critically examined, amongst other topics, hip hop methodologies; writing \"Questions of method are, at heart, questions about how one can best understand the world.\" In hip hop studies, this \"world\" encompasses the complexities of political, social, and economic exploitation of marginalized peoples, and hip hop practitioners' resultant forms of resistant expression, thus the frames of analysis used by scholars are equally complex and consider factors such as race, class, gender, gender identity, sexuality, location, and performance and performativity. The use of ethnography is popular and preferred in hip hop studies because it is a mode of inquiry that enables a scholar to include a multiplicity of voices, and showcases the experiential knowledges of hip hop doers and consumers; ideally this method highlights the dual authority of practitioners' and academics' knowledges.\n\nHip Hop studies has been growing as an academic discipline since the mid-1990s; two decades after its genesis. By the millennium and in the early 2000s, scholars such as Tricia Rose, Michael Eric Dyson, Cornel West, Anthony B. Pinn, Jeff Chang, Nelson George, Bakari Kitwana, Mark Anthony Neal, and Murray Forman, began engage Hip Hop's history, messages of resistance, social cognizance, personal awareness, political activism, pleasure and power, and community engagement in scholarly works that gave Hip Hop academic legitimacy. Works by these authors are considered foundational texts in the field of Hip Hop studies because their research and publication served to legitimate Hip Hop as serious academic endeavor and since 2002 scholarly inquiry centralizing Hip Hop culture has multiple exponentially; exemplified by the inception of the Hip Hop Archive & Research Institute at Harvard in 2002, and the publication of the second edition of \"That's the Joint!: The Hip Hop Studies Reader\" in 2011.\n\nDiscussions of scholarly writing on hip hop in the academia often begin with Tricia Rose's \"Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America\", published in 1994. This book is categorized within hip hop studies as being among the most important early full-length texts on rap and hip hop culture, which helped to establish hip hop studies as a legitimate field of scholarly inquiry. Rose's book gives a comprehensive account of the evolutionary history of hip hop culture. In Rose's words, \"Black Noise\" \"examines the complex and contradictory relationships between forces of racial and sexual domination, black cultural priorities, and popular resistance in contemporary rap music,\" while it outlines the social context of rap's existence. To achieve this analysis, Rose's includes a range of voices and perspectives by using an ethnographic approach; conducting interviews with hip hop performers and practitioners, as well as hip hop listeners and consumers. Rose's interviews were conducted throughout the United States, as well as in Hong Kong, China, and Japan. Rose's groundbreaking work continues to be referenced as a foundational text by contemporary scholars because its detailed documentation of hip hop culture's revolution employs ethnography, cultural theory, urban history and historiography, as well as black feminist thought; culminating in an extensive bibliography.\n\nJeff Chang's comprehensive examination of hip hop, \"Can't Stop, Won't Stop: A History of the Hip-Hop Generation\", received the American Book Award after its publication in 2005 and is often cited by hip hop cultural critics, hip hop journalists, popular-culture scholars, and hip hop academics. Chang situates hip hop as \"forged in the fires of the Bronx and Kingston, Jamaica,\" and suggests that \"hip-hop has been a generation-defining global movement,\" shaped by the deindustrialization and globalization of the post-civil rights era. Chang's method of inquiry and analysis hybrids statistical, historical, and ehtnographical data with a casual writing style that includes Chang's opinions, sections of extended dialogue, and interviews. Chang's central themes in this text are race, and the intersections of race in hip hop agendas/politics.\n\nHoward University, a historically black college, was the first to offer a Hip Hop-specific class to students in 1991. In the proceeding two decades, colleges across the United States have begun to offer a variety of courses specifically about Hip Hop culture; these include top-ranked universities, such as Harvard, Penn State, USC, UCLA, Stanford, Rice, Duke, Princeton, and NYU. Additionally, in 2012, the University of Arizona announced the implementation of a Hip Hop studies minor; the first of its kind in the country. While the University of Arizona's minor is the first interdisciplinary Hip Hop studies concentration of its kind, since 2009 at McNally Smith College of Music in St. Paul, Minnesota students can acquire a diploma in Hip Hop studies that focuses on Hip Hop music technique, music and audio production, and music industry economics and marketing. In 2013 Tiffin University in Ohio began offering a music performance degree for students with primary focus in emceeing and beatmaking. Apart from classes and degree programs, development in the field has also been marked by the proliferation of conferences (domestically and internationally), symposiums, the development of readers and anthological texts, the establishment of the Hip Hop Archive and Research Institute at Harvard—each characteristic of a growing interest in and engagement with Hip Hop culture in academic discourse. In 2017, the top three universities to study Hip Hop at were McNally Smith College of Music, North Carolina Central University, and University of Arizona.\n\nHip Hop studies has not grown without critics, both within and outside the field. Davey D. (also known as: David Cook), a Bronx native and Hip Hop journalist, historian, adjunct professor, and community activist, has written and verbalized critiques of academic Hip Hop claiming that the narrow standards that define legitimate scholarly inquiry exclude individuals who do Hip Hop, in favor of published academics who may or may not have any lived or tangible connection to Hip Hop culture at all. In an article published by the \"San Francisco Globe\" in March 2007, Davey D. is quoted as saying: \"You have an interesting phenomenon, where the 'hip-hop experts,' with university appointments attached to their name, have no credibility whatsoever in hip-hop circles. That, coupled with the fact that academia in a lot of places has always kept a distinct separation between what goes on in community and what happens on campus, is a source of tension.\" \nHip hop's complex foundations have fostered a divergence of opinion amongst scholars regarding how writing on hip hop culture should be done. Namely, this debate is centralized around questions of language, and for what audience(s) scholars should be writing to address: the academic and/or scholar, the dilettante, or the fan and/or self-self-proccalimed \"hip hop head.\" Since approximately 1988, three categories of writing on hip hop culture have emerged: works by academics, works by journalists and cultural critics, and works by hip-hop devotees; critiques of hip hop studies include questions of which kind of writing is considered authentic or legitimate within the field, and the accessibility that outsiders, or non-academics, would have to those texts, both physically and comprehensively.\nOther critics, such as Alex Beam a columnist for \"The Boston Globe\", have claimed that the study of Hip Hop is unsuitable for critical academic study, citing the \"celebration of ignorance, gangster-ism...and violence against women,\" in mainstream rap and Hip Hop.\n\nDespite the critiques previously mentioned, not all critics of Hip Hop studies are trying to point out the perceived flaws as ways to invalidate its place in academia. Hip Hop feminists and feminism offer critics of Hip Hop studies from a perspective which adds another facet to Hip Hop studies, one that not only involves but gives a platform and amplifies the voice of Black and Latinx women and the LGBTQ+ community as they face the most erasure in the world of Hip Hop studies, even though they were there from the very start. Published books such as \"Home Girls Make Some Noise: Hip Hop Feminism Anthology\"\", is\" an anthology that features journals, poetry, and articles by both women of color and LGBTQ+ community which depict where Hip Hop began and the direction in which it very well may go.\n\n"}
{"id": "23004919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23004919", "title": "History of comics", "text": "History of comics\n\nThe history of comics has followed different paths in different parts of the world. It can be traced back to early precursors such as Trajan's Column, in Rome, Egyptian hieroglyphs and the Bayeux Tapestry.\n\nAn example of an early precursor to print comics is Trajan's Column.\nRome's Trajan's Column, dedicated in 110 AD, is an early surviving example of a narrative told through sequential pictures, while Egyptian hieroglyphs, Greek friezes, medieval tapestries such as the Bayeux Tapestry and illustrated manuscripts also combine sequential images and words to tell a story. Versions of the Bible relying primarily on images rather than text were widely distributed in Europe in order to bring the teachings of Christianity to the illiterate. In medieval paintings, multiple sequential scenes of the same story (usually a Biblical one) appear simultaneously in the same painting.\n\nHowever, these works did not travel to the reader; it took the invention of modern printing techniques to bring the form to a wide audience and become a mass medium.\n\nThe invention of the printing press, allowing movable type, established a separation between images and words, the two requiring different methods in order to be reproduced. Early printed material concentrated on religious subjects, but through the 17th and 18th centuries, they began to tackle aspects of political and social life, and also started to satirize and caricature. It was also during this period that the speech bubble was developed as a means of attributing dialogue.\nOne of the first creators of comics was William Hogarth (1697–1764). Hogarth created seven sets of sequential images on \"Modern Moral Subjects\". One of his works, \"A Rake's Progress\", was composed of a number of canvases, each reproduced as a print, and the eight prints together created a narrative. As printing techniques developed, due to the technological advances of the industrial revolution, magazines and newspapers were established. These publications utilized illustrations as a means of commenting on political and social issues, such illustrations becoming known as cartoons in the 1842. Soon, artists were experimenting with establishing a sequence of images to create a narrative.\n\nWhile surviving works of these periods, such as Francis Barlow's \"A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot\" (c. 1682) as well as \"The Punishments of Lemuel Gulliver\" and \"A Rake's Progress\" by William Hogarth (1726), can be seen to establish a narrative over a number of images, it wasn't until the 19th century that the elements of such works began to crystallise into the comic strip.\n\nThe speech balloon also evolved during this period, from the medieval origins of the \"phylacter\", a label, usually in the form of a scroll, which identified a character either through naming them or using a short text to explain their purpose. Artists such as George Cruikshank helped codify such \"phylacters\" as \"balloons\" rather than \"scrolls\", though at this time they were still called \"labels\". They now represented narrative, but for identification purposes rather than dialogue within the work, and artists soon discarded them in favour of running dialogue underneath the panels. Speech balloons were not reintroduced to the form until Richard F. Outcault used them for dialogue.\n\n\"The Glasgow Looking Glass\", published in 1826, was arguably the first comic strip. A satirical publication, later known as \"The Northern Looking Glass\", it lampooned the fashions and politics of the times. It had all of the elements that make up the modern comic, including pictures with captions that display a continuous narrative told often in installments, and the use of speech bubbles, satire and caricature.\n\nRodolphe Töpffer, a Francophone Swiss artist, was a key figure in the early part of the 19th century. Though speech balloons fell from favour during the middle 19th century, Töpffer's sequentially illustrated stories, with text compartmentalized below images, were reprinted throughout Europe and the United States. The lack of copyright laws at the time meant that pirated editions proliferated, and translated versions created a market on both continents for similar works.\n\nIn 1843, Töpffer formalised his thoughts on the \"picture story\" in his \"Essay on Physiognomics\": \"To construct a picture-story does not mean you must set yourself up as a master craftsman, to draw out every potential from your material—often down to the dregs! It does not mean you just devise caricatures with a pencil naturally frivolous. Nor is it simply to dramatize a proverb or illustrate a pun. You must actually invent some kind of play, where the parts are arranged by plan and form a satisfactory whole. You do not merely pen a joke or put a refrain in couplets. You make a book: good or bad, sober or silly, crazy or sound in sense.\"\nIn 1845, the satirical drawings, which regularly appeared in newspapers and magazines, gained a name: cartoons. (In art, a cartoon is a pencil or charcoal sketch to be overpainted.) The British magazine \"Punch\", launched in 1841, referred to its 'humorous pencilings' as cartoons in a satirical reference to the Parliament of the day, who were themselves organising an exhibition of cartoons, or preparatory drawings, at the time. This usage became common parlance, lasting to the present day. Similar magazines containing cartoons in continental Europe included \"Fliegende Blätter\" and \"Le Charivari\", while in the U.S. \"Judge\" and \"Puck\" were popular.\n\n1865 saw the publication of \"Max and Moritz\" by Wilhelm Busch by a German newspaper. Busch refined the conventions of sequential art, and his work was a key influence within the form, Rudolph Dirks was inspired by the strip to create \"The Katzenjammer Kids\" in 1897.\n\nThe first weekly comic to feature a regular character was \"Ally Sloper's Half Holiday\", which debuted in the British humour magazine \"Judy\" in 1867 and was created by C. H. Ross and illustrated by his French wife Emilie de Tessier. In 1884 the then highly popular character was spun off into his own comic, \"Ally Sloper's Half Holiday\" published by Dalziel Brothers, eight pages long and printed in black and white at tabloid size. The magazine was extremely popular with the working class and may have had a circulation as high as 350,000. In 1890, two more comic magazines debuted to the British public, \"Comic Cuts\" and \"Illustrated Chips\", establishing the tradition of the British comic as an anthology periodical containing comic strips.\n\nIn the United States, R.F. Outcault's work in combining speech balloons and images on \"Hogan's Alley\" and The Yellow Kid has been credited as establishing the form and conventions of the comic strip, though academics have uncovered earlier works that combine speech bubbles and a multi image narrative. However, the popularity of Outcalt's work and the position of the strip in a newspaper retains credit as a driving force of the form.\n\nThe 1920s and 1930s saw further booms within the industry. The market for comic anthologies in Britain turned to targeting children through juvenile humor, with \"The Dandy\" and \"The Beano\". In Belgium, Hergé created \"The Adventures of Tintin\" newspaper strip for a comic supplement; this was successfully collected in a bound album and created a market for further such works. The same period in the United States had seen newspaper strips expand their subject matter beyond humour, with action, adventure and mystery strips launched. The collection of such material also began, with \"The Funnies\", a reprint collection of newspaper strips, published in tabloid size in 1929.\n\nA market for such comic books soon followed, and by 1938 publishers were printing original material in the format. It was at this point that \"Action Comics\" #1 launched, with \"Superman\" as the cover feature. The popularity of the character swiftly enshrined the superhero as the defining genre of American comic books. The genre lost popularity in the 1950s but re-established its domination of the form from the 1960s until the late 20th century.\n\nIn Japan, a country with a long tradition for illustration, comics were hugely popular. Referred to as manga, the Japanese form was established after World War II by Osamu Tezuka, who expanded the page count of a work to number in the hundreds, and who developed a filmic style, heavily influenced by the Disney animations of the time. The Japanese market expanded its range to cover works in many genres, from juvenile fantasy through romance to adult fantasies. Japanese manga is typically published in large anthologies, containing several hundred pages, and the stories told have long been used as sources for adaptation into animated film. In Japan, such films are referred to as anime, and many creators work in both forms simultaneously, leading to an intrinsic linking of the two forms.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 20th century comics have become a very popular item for collectors and from the 1970s American comics publishers have actively encouraged collecting and shifted a large portion of comics publishing and production to appeal directly to the collector's community.\n\nWriting in 1972, Sir Ernst Gombrich felt Töpffer had evolved a new pictorial language, that of an abbreviated art style, which allowed the audience to fill in gaps with their imagination.\n\nThe modern double use of the term \"comic\", as an adjective describing a genre, and a noun designating an entire medium, has been criticised as confusing and misleading. In the 1960s and 1970s, underground cartoonists used the spelling \"comix\" to distinguish their work from mainstream newspaper strips and juvenile comic books. Their work was written for an adult audience but was usually comedic, so the \"comic\" label was still appropriate. The term \"graphic novel\" was popularized in the late 1970s, having been coined at least two decades previous, to distance the material from this confusion.\n\nIn the 1980s, comics scholarship started to blossom in the U.S., and a resurgence in the popularity of comics was seen, with Alan Moore and Frank Miller producing notable superhero works and Bill Watterson's \"Calvin & Hobbes,\" and Gary Larson's \"The Far Side\" being syndicated.\n\nWebcomics have grown in popularity since the mid 1990s. Since the inception of the World Wide Web, artists have been able to self-publish comics on the Internet for a low cost. Hosting providers specifically designed for webcomics, such as Keenspot and Modern Tales, allow for a type of syndication of webcomics. Scott McCloud described in 2000 how creators of online comics can revolutionize the medium by embracing the digital space and making use of techniques such as infinite canvas. Webcomics became more prolific in the early 2000s, as respected comics awards such as the Eagle and Eisner Awards started adding categories for digital comics.\n\n"}
{"id": "6987088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6987088", "title": "Innocent Venus", "text": "Innocent Venus\n\nIn the near future, after the world population and economy is devastated by a series of simultaneous hypercanes, many different factions and fledgling nations appear. In Japan, an elite class called \"Logos\" appears, controlling special zones in the country which have most of the wealth and resources. These special zones were created with the help of \"Power Assist Technology\", which allowed Japan to recover from the consequences of the worldwide disaster (which included a combination of land subsidence & rising sea levels resulting in the permanent submerging of low-lying areas and a subsequent ice age in much of the Northern hemisphere), albeit to a strictly limited degree. The Logos exercise control over the \"Revenus\", a lower class who mostly live in devastated & often poverty stricken zones (urban or in close proximity) and areas (rural) known as \"Levinas\" (e.g. Levinas Sector Six, Area 18) and who struggle from day to day in order to stay alive. The Revenus are generally restricted from entering the special zones, causing tension which creates a resistance movement which fights back against the Logos.\n\nWith the tagline \"A Near Future Late-Shogunate Action Animation\", the story draws analogies with 19th-century Japan at the end of the Tokugawa Shogunate period, just before the Boshin War.\n\nThe story proper is mainly set in 2035AD. Jō and Jin defect from \"Phantom\", an elite military special operations group which is used to help control the Revenus. When they escape, they take a young girl named Sana with them. The series follows them as they work to avoid being caught by Phantom and the regular military forces of the Logos. However, there are more to things than meet the eye.\n\n\nNoble Roar by Yōsei Teikoku\n\nBrand New Reason by Fleet\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52997269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52997269", "title": "Internal Autonomy Day", "text": "Internal Autonomy Day\n\nInternal Autonomy Day (; ) is an official holiday in French Polynesia, an overseas collectivity of France. It is celebrated annually on 29 June, to honor Tahitian and French Polynesian self-rule. The day also marked the annexation of the Kingdom of Tahiti and the turnover of native sovereignty by King Pōmare V to France.\n\nPro-autonomy political parties celebrate the holiday on 29 June while Oscar Temaru, former President of French Polynesia who advocated independence from France, noted that the day should known as \"Mourning Day\" instead. \nThe date French Polynesia achieved internal autonomy was on 6 September 1984.\n\nThe holiday is mainly celebrated in the capital of Papeete, on the island of Tahiti. It is celebrate with parades, entertainment and concert on the waterfront of Papeete.\n\n"}
{"id": "27035995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27035995", "title": "Isabella Ford", "text": "Isabella Ford\n\nIsabella Ormston Ford (1855–1924) was an English social reformer, suffragist and writer. She became a public speaker and wrote pamphlets on issues related to socialism, feminism and worker's rights. After becoming concerned with the rights of female mill workers at an early age, Ford became involved with trade union organisation in the 1880s. A member of the national administrative council of the Independent Labour Party, she was the first woman to speak at a Labour Representation Committee (which became the British Labour Party) conference.\n\nIsabella Ford was born 23 May 1855 in Headingley, Leeds, in the north of England. She was the youngest of eight children of Quakers Robert Lawson Ford and Hannah (née Pease). Her mother was a cousin of abolitionist Elizabeth Pease Nichol. Her father was a solicitor who ran a local night-school for mill-girls. Contact with these girls gave Ford and her sisters an insight into class differences and an interest in working conditions. When she was 16, she began teaching at her father's school.\n\nIn the 1880s, Ford became involved with trade unions. She worked with tailoresses who were campaigning for better working conditions; she helped them to form a trade union and was involved when they went on strike in 1889. In 1890–91, she marched with workers from Manningham Mills in Bradford. As a result of her involvement, she was elected a life member of the Leeds Trades and Labour Council.\n\nShe helped found the Leeds Independent Labour Party (ILP) and was president of the Leeds Tailoresses' Union. Her concerns were trade union organisation, socialism and female suffrage. She overcame a natural shyness to become an experienced public speaker, speaking at many meetings related to socialism, workers' rights and women's emancipation. She wrote many pamphlets, as well as a column in the \"Leeds Forward\". In 1895 she was elected parish councillor for Adel cum Eccup in Leeds.\n\nIn the 1900s, Ford increased her focus on her work for the ILP, and was elected to the national administrative council. She became more involved in the national women's suffrage movement, but felt that feminism and the labour movement were equally important. In 1903 she spoke at the annual conference of the Labour Representation Committee (later the British Labour Party), and was the first woman to do so.\n\nFollowing a 1904 debate with future politician Margaret Bondfield, Sylvia Pankhurst described Ford as \"a plain, middle-aged woman, with red face and turban hat crushed down upon her straight hair, whose nature yet seemed to me ... kindlier and more profound than that of her younger antagonist\".\n\nFord formed friendships with Labour politician Philip Snowden, socialist writer Edward Carpenter, poet Walt Whitman, Josephine Butler, Millicent Fawcett and Olive Schreiner. She lived most of her adult life with her sisters Bessie and Emily in Adel Grange, the Leeds home that the family moved to when she was 10. Bessie Ford died in 1919 and her sisters moved to a smaller property called Adel Willows in 1922. Isabella Ford died 14 July 1924.\n\nFord's name and image, and those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters, are etched on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London that was unveiled in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "29272787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29272787", "title": "Katro", "text": "Katro\n\nKatro is a traditional mancala game played by the Betsileo people in the Fianarantsoa Province of Madagascar. The game was first described by Alex de Voogt in 1998.\n\nKatro is played on a 6 × 6 board (6 rows of 6 pits each). Each player controls half of the board (three rows). At game setup, two seeds are placed in each pit.\n\nAt his or her turn, the player relay sows the seeds from one of his or her pits, with the constraint that the chosen pit must be in the outermost non-empty row. As with most mancala-IV (i.e., mancalas with 4 rows), sowing is confined to the player's own rows. Sowing may occurs the player's pits in two \"directions\". Consider the following scheme:\n\ncodice_1\n\nThe southern player can either sow like this:\n\ncodice_2\n\nor like this:\n\ncodice_3\n\nIf the last seed of the sowing in dropped in an empty pit, this may cause a capture if the following applies:\n\n\nIf both conditions apply, all the seeds from the opponent's pit are captured, as well as the capturing seed. The player then resumes sowing, using the captured seeds.\n\nThe first player to be left without seeds loses the game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42793516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42793516", "title": "Kaula (month)", "text": "Kaula (month)\n\nKaulā (Nepal Bhasa: कौला) is the twelfth month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month coincides with Ashvin (अश्विन्) in the Hindu lunar calendar and October in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nKaulā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Kaulā Thwa (कौला थ्व) and Kaulā Gā (कौला गा) respectively.\n\nKaulā is a festive month. On the third day of the bright fortnight, masked dances of the Goddess Rudrayani are performed in Khokna, a village to the south of Kathmandu.\n\nThe greatest event of the month is Dasain, known as Mohani in Nepal Mandala. It is the longest religious celebration in the country, starting from the 1st day of the bright fortnight and continuing till the full moon day. However, the main celebrations last for four days from the 8th to the 11th days. The festivities consist of religious services in the clan's shrine house, family feasts, sword processions and masked dances of deities.\n\nThe 13th day of the dark fortnight is the start of another great festival Tihar or Swanti. The first two days are dedicated to crows and dogs respectively. The 15th day is Lakshmi Puja when households worship the goddess of wealth in their private shrines. The day is also the last day of the lunar Nepal Era, and traditionally merchants closed their accounting books.\n"}
{"id": "21783047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21783047", "title": "List of Wuthering Heights references", "text": "List of Wuthering Heights references\n\nThis is a list of cultural references to \"Wuthering Heights\", which was Emily Brontë's only novel, specifically in literature and music. It was first published in 1847 under the pseudonym Ellis Bell, and a posthumous second edition was edited by her sister Charlotte. For adaptations of the novel, see List of \"Wuthering Heights\" adaptations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32783755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32783755", "title": "Meiping", "text": "Meiping\n\nA meiping (, sometimes italicised in English) is a shape of vase in Chinese ceramics. It is traditionally used to display branches of plum blossoms. The meiping was first made of stoneware during the Tang dynasty (618–907). It was originally used as a wine vessel, but since the Song dynasty (960–1279) it also became popular as a plum vase and got its name \"meiping\". It is tall, with a narrow base spreading gracefully into a wide body, followed by a sharply-rounded shoulder, a short and narrow neck, and a small opening.\n\nThey may have lids, and many lids have no doubt been lost. The equivalent shape in Korean ceramics, where it was derived from Chinese examples, is called a Maebyeong. A distinct variant is the \"truncated meiping\", where there is only the top half of the usual shape, giving a squat vase with a wide bottom. This is largely restricted to Cizhou ware. \n\n"}
{"id": "9207350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9207350", "title": "Menino de engenho", "text": "Menino de engenho\n\nMenino de engenho (Plantation boy) is a novel written by the Brazilian writer José Lins do Rego. It was first published in 1932. \n\nCarlos Melo, or Carlinhos, narrates in first person, in a nostalgic manner, the childhood spent in the plantation Santa Rosa. When his father was sent to a mental house after killing his mother, Carlinhos moved from Recife to Santa Rosa, in the plantation that belonged to his grandfather, Coronel José Paulino. Carlinhos' childhood was divided between \"good\" and \"evil\": in the company of his aunt his behavior was more gentle (the \"good\"); living with his cousins, he was extroverted and libertine (the \"evil\").\n\nLiving in the plantation, Carlinhos became familiar with the social inequalities between the plantation masters and their employees; in addition, he almost joined the Cangaço (he even asked the bandit Antônio Silvino to let him follow the group). There Carlinhos also came to know love, first with his cousin Lili, who died as a child and later with another cousin, Maria Clara, who lived in Recife and spent a few days visiting the plantation. Maria Clara was a little older than Carlinhos and told him about all the fun and new things that happened in the city. But the romance didn't last long, as the cousin went back to Recife. Soon after, Carlinhos lost his \"second mother\": his aunt Maria got married and the boy was left to the care of his cold and strict aunt Sinhazinha.\n\nHowever, aunt Sinhazinha's austerity made Carlinhos even more libertine: the boy, only twelve years old, caught gonorrhea. His relatives then decided to \"set him straight\" by sending him to school.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "28202140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28202140", "title": "MetaJets", "text": "MetaJets\n\nMetaJets is a Canadian-South Korean animated television show produced by Cookie Jar Group and Sunwoo Entertainment.\n\nIn Canada, \"MetaJets\" premiered on October 3, 2010 on Teletoon. In South Korea, this show was first aired on KBS1 on January 31, 2009, and it premiered on TF1 on October 7, 2009 in France. This show was also seen in other selected territories, such as on Cartoon Network on July 4, 2010 in the United States, Studio 23 on July 13, 2010 in the Philippines, and Disney Channel Asia in 2011. The entire first season was available to watch instantly on Netflix. In Canada it was offered from 2017-2018 via Kids Suite from Bell TV.\n\nMajor characters:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18106865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106865", "title": "Nicholas Horner", "text": "Nicholas Horner\n\nNicholas Horner (died 4 March 1590) was an English Roman Catholic layman, hanged, drawn and quartered because he had relieved and assisted Christopher Bales, a seminary priest. He is a Catholic martyr, beatified in 1987.\n\nBorn at Grantley in Yorkshire, he appears to have been following the calling of a tailor in London when he was arrested on the charge of harbouring Catholic priests. He was kept for a long time in a cell, contracted blood poisoning in one leg, and had it amputated.\n\nHe was afterwards set free, but when he was again found to be harbouring priests he was convicted of felony, and as he refused to conform to the public worship of the Church of England, was condemned. On the eve of his execution at Smithfield, he had a vision of a crown of glory hanging over his head; the story of this vision was told by him to a friend, who in turn transmitted it by letter to Father Robert Southwell.\n\n"}
{"id": "30940992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30940992", "title": "Nyau", "text": "Nyau\n\nNyau (also: \"Nyao\" meaning \"mask\" or \"initiation\") is a secret society of the Chewa, an ethnic group of the Bantu peoples from Central and Southern Africa. The Nyau society consists of initiated members of the Chewa and Nyanja people, forming the cosmology or indigenous religion of the people. Initiations are separate for men and for women, with different knowledge learned and with different ritual roles in the society according to gender and seniority. Only initiates are considered to be mature and members of the \"Nyau\". The word \"Nyau\" is not only used for the society itself, but also for the indigenous religious beliefs or cosmology of people who form this society, the ritual dance performances, and the masks used for the dances. Nyau societies operate at the village level, but are part of a wide network of Nyau across the central and part of the southern regions of Malawi, eastern Zambia, western Mozambique and areas where Malawians migrated in Zimbabwe. During performances with the masks women and children often rush into the houses when a Nyau performer threatens, as the masks are worn by only male members of the society and represent male knowledge. At that moment in the performance and rituals, Nyau masked dancers are understood to be spirits of the dead. As spirits the masquerades may act with impunity and there have been attacks and deaths during performances in the past. Increasing westernization has led to a decrease in Nyau.\n\nA cave painting in Zaire depicts \"Kasiya Maliro\", a type of Nyau mask that may date to 992 CE. The Nyau cosmology continued during the time of the Ngoni invasions in the mid-1800s and during the time of early colonists including Portuguese and British. According to local mythologies Nyau came from Malomba, a place in what is now the DRC. Due to heavy punishment for telling secrets to non-initiates about the Nyau cosmology (e.g. who are the men dancing) the origin of Nyau could not be clarified by the first missionaries and colonialists arriving in Maravi. Penalties went as far as the person revealing secrets being killed by members of the society. The arrival of missionaries during the 1920s had a growing influence on Nyau at the village level, which produced open conflict. Though Christian missionaries banned Nyau in Chewa communities, the society and its practice survived under British colonial rule through adaptation that included some aspects of Christianity. Presently, it is still practiced with Chewa members belonging both to a Christian church and the Nyau society. Although some other ethnic groups have developed cultural dances, such as the Ngoni, Yao and Mang'anja, the \"Nyau\" of the Chewa can be considered the most elaborate of the secret societies and dances in areas around Lake Malawi.\n\nThe Chewa believe that life exists within their ancestors and those not yet born, as well as the living. The Nyau beliefs include communication with those who are dead, or their spirits, calling this act \"pemphero lalikulu\" (\"Great Prayer\"). Chewa believe in the presence of God in everyday life, and that God is both male (in the sky) and female (in the earth). Words for God include Chiuta, the great bow or rainbow in the sky and Namalango in the earth, like a womb, where seeds germinate and is a source of new life. The spirit world's symbolism is presented at the \"Gule Wamkulu\" (\"Big Dance\"), which incorporates \"mwambo\" (\"traditions\"), masks, song, dance and rules. Nyau incorporates sophisticated reverse role-playing, proverbs, mimicking and satire in performances. Primarily the \"Nyau\" perform their masked dances at funerals, memorial services and initiations (for girls: Chinamwali). Each dancer represents a special character relating to the mask or animal structure he wears. The \"zilombo\" (\"wild animals\") are large constructions that cover the entire body and mostly represent animals, and the masks worn over the face are primarily ancestral spirits. The secrecy behind Nyau incorporates coded language, riddles, metaphor, myths and signing. Viewed with suspicion by outsiders, Nyau has been misunderstood and misrepresented by others, including the Christian church.\n\nInitiation of men into the secret society begins with residing in a wooded grove, the place the dead are buried (cemetery) for a week or much longer in the past. Particularly in Zimbabwe, Nyau members that migrated from Malawi and are now part of the Shona Culture still practice Nyau rituals and hold Nyau religious beliefs. They perform dances in the suburbs of Mabvuku, Highfield and Tafara. They attempt to scare away people who wish to interview them saying \"Wavekutamba nemoto unotsva\" (you are now playing with fire you will get burnt).\n\nWomen and children and also some men may rush into the houses when a Nyau performer appears. Nyau is the presence of the dead, an encounter with a spirit and so associated with fear and ritual dread. However, senior women perform in the Gule Wamkulu with intricate clapping, singing, dancing and chanting, responding to the song of the masquerader and are close to the dancers. During the funeral period, women joke with the Nyau in a practice called \"kasinja\" whilst brewing beer and while staying awake the night before a funeral. Men and women both enter the graveyard grove burials at the end of the Nyau funeral performance. Initiated women attend the Nyau performances freely, though they will deny knowledge of the men wearing masks. The men are actual spirits in the ritual, and cannot be spoken of as men even though women will recognize their husbands, fathers, brother and uncles. Identifying the man wearing a mask is disrespectful to the religion, breaking the moment when the masquerade is the spirit of the dead, much as calling Eucharist a biscuit breaks the ritual moment when Christ is near and would be considered disrespectful to Christians. Uninitiated women and children, and uninitiated men, may be chased by Nyau performers and non-members are discouraged from coming near during funerals. In part this is to avoid outsiders from being disrespectful, not understanding the importance of a 'good' burial and the significance of the presence of the dead. In Zambian villages, boys may participate in groups called \"kalumbu\" who join a group from as young as five or six. However, they must pay a joining fee (often around 2 \"kwacha\" in 1993) which they raise by hunting and selling birds, or the fee is paid by their parents. Upon joining the novices are often beaten with branches before learning the discipline. The minimum age of boys or girls joining the \"Nyau\" itself is usually around ten years of age.\n\nNyau dances involve intricate footwork, flinging dust in the air. Dancers respond to specific drumbeats and songs depending on the mask type or character. The dancers, described as \"fleet-footed or nimble-footed\", appear in masks representing the dead, human being or animal; the weak-kneed run away from sights of such dances. While it may be considered in many places to be a folk dance, this is certainly not the case; \"Nyau\" should rather be considered a religious dance, as its function is to communicate with the ancestral world.\n\nSince 2005, Gule Wamkulu has been classified as one of the 90 Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, a program by UNESCO for preservation of intangible cultural heritage. This dance form may date to the great Chewa Empire of the 17th century. \"Gule Wamkulu\", or big dance, is the best-known and longest dance of the Nyau. It is also known as \"pemphero lathu lalikulu la mizimu\" (\"great prayer to our ancestors\") or \"gulu la anamwaliri\" (\"dance of the ancestors\"). Prior to the \"Gule Wamkulu\" dance, Nyau dancers observe a series of secret rituals which are associated with their society, a secret brotherhood. The dance is mainly performed at funerals and memorial services but also at initiations and other celebrations. The masks worn by the dancers on such performances are in the form of animals or \"beasts\" such as antelopes believed to capture the soul or spirit of the deceased that brings renewed life. The purpose of the dance is said to be a way of communicating messages of the ancestors to the villagers and making possible continued harvests and continued life. Nyau is a protection against evil and an expression of religious beliefs that permeate society.\n\nThe variety of masks resembling ancestors is huge and ever growing, unlike the animal structures. Some mask carvers are professionals while others are occasional artisans. Over 400 masks which are associated with the Nyau society and the \"Gule wamkulu\" ritual are exhibited at the Chamare Museum in Dedza District, Malawi.\n\nNyau masks are constructed of wood and straw. and are divided into three types. The first is a feathered net mask, the second is a wooden mask and the third is a large zoomorphic basketry structure that envelops the entire body of the dancer. Wearing the latter, dancers tend to turn around and around in a motion known as \"Nyau yolemba\". They are representations of a large variety of characters, including wild animals such as antelope, lions and hyenas. With names such as Bwindi, Chibano, and Wakana, the masks portray a variety of traits and types such as a philanderer, a helpless epileptic, lust, greed, foolishness, vanity, infertility, sorcery, and ambition.; even a helicopter. As one Nyau member explains, the masks and performance represent all of humanity and all of the spirit world.\n\nThere are a variety of mask types, some of which include:\n\nThe Nyau members wearing animal structures resemble wild animals or \"nyama za ku tchire\", which appear at the time of death of people and therefore feared. There is some kind of hierarchy between the different animals, with some very respected animals (such as \"njobvu\", the elephant) and some less important. Highly respected animals are also believed to resemble very important ancestors such as chiefs or members of the Nyau cult. Most animal structures usually have a barrel-like shape, with an entry hole at the bottom. Inside the structure, bars are mounted to be able to carry the structure around. All structures completely cover the dancer, and the footprints are brushed away with branches by Nyau members. In the following some structures are explained in order of their importance.\n\nThe antelope forms are considered the most beautiful and are widely known as Kasiyamaliro (to leave the funeral/burial behind). Standing ten feet tall and often covered in dried woven maize husks, these mask forms are the first to appear in performances to remember the deceased, as a sign that the deceased have now joined the spirits and ancestors. This is a time of remembrance and celebration of life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16415709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16415709", "title": "Phonological development", "text": "Phonological development\n\nSound is at the beginning of language learning. Children have to learn to distinguish different sounds and to segment the speech stream they are exposed to into units – eventually meaningful units – in order to acquire words and sentences. Here is one reason that speech segmentation is challenging: When you read, there are spaces between the words. No such spaces occur between spoken words. So, if an infant hears the sound sequence “thisisacup,” it has to learn to segment this stream into the distinct units “this”, “is”, “a”, and “cup.” Once the child is able to extract the sequence “cup” from the speech stream it has to assign a meaning to this word. Furthermore, the child has to be able to distinguish the sequence “cup” from “cub” in order to learn that these are two distinct words with different meanings. Finally, the child has to learn to produce these words. \nThe acquisition of native language phonology begins in the womb and isn’t completely adult-like until the teenage years. Perceptual abilities (such as being able to segment “thisisacup” into four individual word units) usually precede production and thus aid the development of speech production.\n\nChildren don’t utter their first words until they are about 1 year old, but already at birth they can tell some utterances in their native language from utterances in languages with different prosodic features.\n\nInfants as young as 1 month perceive some speech sounds as speech categories (they display categorical perception of speech). For example, the sounds /b/ and /p/ differ in the amount of breathiness that follows the opening of the lips. Using a computer generated continuum in breathiness between /b/ and /p/, Eimas et al. (1971) showed that English-learning infants paid more attention to differences near the boundary between /b/ and /p/ than to equal-sized differences within the /b/-category or within the /p/-category. Their measure, monitoring infant sucking-rate, became a major experimental method for studying infant speech perception.\n\nInfants up to 10–12 months can distinguish not only native sounds but also nonnative contrasts. Older children and adults lose the ability to discriminate some nonnative contrasts. Thus, it seems that exposure to one’s native language causes the perceptual system to be restructured. The restructuring reflects the system of contrasts in the native language.\n\nAt four months infants still prefer infant-directed speech to adult-directed speech. Whereas 1-month-olds only exhibit this preference if the full speech signal is played to them, 4-month-old infants prefer infant-directed speech even when just the pitch contours are played. This shows that between 1 and 4 months of age, infants improve in tracking the suprasegmental information in the speech directed at them. By 4 months, finally, infants have learned which features they have to pay attention to at the suprasegmental level.\n\nBabies prefer to hear their own name to similar-sounding words. It is possible that they have associated the meaning “me” with their name, although it is also possible that they simply recognize the form because of its high frequency.\n\nWith increasing exposure to the ambient language, infants learn not to pay attention to sound distinctions that are not meaningful in their native language, e.g., two acoustically different versions of the vowel /i/ that simply differ because of inter-speaker variability. By 6 months of age infants have learned to treat acoustically different sounds that are representations of the same sound category, such as an /i/ spoken by a male versus a female speaker, as members of the same phonological category /i/.\n\nInfants are able to extract meaningful distinctions in the language they are exposed to from statistical properties of that language. For example, if English-learning infants are exposed to a prevoiced /d/ to voiceless unaspirated /t/ continuum (similar to the /d/ - /t/ distinction in Spanish) with the majority of the tokens occurring near the endpoints of the continuum, i.e., showing extreme prevoicing versus long voice onset times (bimodal distribution) they are better at discriminating these sounds than infants who are exposed primarily to tokens from the center of the continuum (unimodal distribution).\n\nThese results show that at the age of 6 months infants are sensitive to how often certain sounds occur in the language they are exposed to and they can learn which cues are important to pay attention to from these differences in frequency of occurrence. In natural language exposure this means typical sounds in a language (such as prevoiced /d/ in Spanish) occur often and infants can learn them from mere exposure to them in the speech they hear. All of this occurs before infants are aware of the meaning of any of the words they are exposed to, and therefore the phenomenon of statistical learning has been used to argue for the fact that infants can learn sound contrasts without meaning being attached to them.\n\nAt 6 months, infants are also able to make use of prosodic features of the ambient language to break the speech stream they are exposed to into meaningful units, e.g., they are better able to distinguish sounds that occur in stressed vs. unstressed syllables. This means that at 6 months infants have some knowledge of the stress patterns in the speech they are exposed and they have learned that these patterns are meaningful.\n\nAt 7.5 months English-learning infants have been shown to be able to segment words from speech that show a strong-weak (i.e., trochaic) stress pattern, which is the most common stress pattern in the English language, but they were not able to segment out words that follow a weak-strong pattern. In the sequence ‘guitar is’ these infants thus heard ‘taris’ as the word-unit because it follows a strong-weak pattern.\nThe process that allows infants to use prosodic cues in speech input to learn about language structure has been termed “prosodic bootstrapping”.\n\nWhile children generally don’t understand the meaning of most single words yet, they understand the meaning of certain phrases they hear a lot, such as “Stop it,” or “Come here.”\n\nInfants can distinguish native from nonnative language input using phonetic and phonotactic patterns alone, i.e., without the help of prosodic cues. They seem to have learned their native language’s phonotactics, i.e., which combinations of sounds are possible in the language.\n\nInfants now can no longer discriminate most nonnative sound contrasts that fall within the same sound category in their native language. Their perceptual system has been tuned to the contrasts relevant in their native language. \nAs for word comprehension, Fenson et al. (1994) tested 10-11-month-old children’s comprehension vocabulary size and found a range from 11 words to 154 words. At this age, children normally have not yet begun to speak and thus have no production vocabulary. So clearly, comprehension vocabulary develops before production vocabulary.\n\nEven though children do not produce their first words until they are approximately 12 months old, the ability to produce speech sounds starts to develop at a much younger age. Stark (1980) distinguishes five stages of early speech development:\n\nThese earliest vocalizations include crying and vegetative sounds such as breathing, sucking or sneezing. For these vegetative sounds, infants’ vocal cords vibrate and air passes through their vocal apparatus, thus familiarizing infants with processes involved in later speech production.\n\nInfants produce cooing sounds when they are content. Cooing is often triggered by social interaction with caregivers and resembles the production of vowels.\n\nInfants produce a variety of vowel- and consonant-like sounds that they combine into increasingly longer sequences. The production of vowel sounds (already in the first 2 months) precedes the production of consonants, with the first back consonants (e.g., [g], [k]) being produced around 2–3 months, and front consonants (e.g., [m], [n], [p]) starting to appear around 6 months of age. \nAs for pitch contours in early infant utterances, infants between 3 and 9 months of age produce primarily flat, falling and rising-falling contours. Rising pitch contours would require the infants to raise subglottal pressure during the vocalization or to increase vocal fold length or tension at the end of the vocalization, or both. At 3 to 9 months infants don’t seem to be able to control these movements yet.\n\nReduplicated babbling contains consonant-vowel (CV) syllables that are repeated in reduplicated series of the same consonant and vowel (e.g., [bababa]). At this stage, infants’ productions resemble speech much more closely in timing and vocal behaviors than at earlier stages. \nStarting around 6 months babies also show an influence of the ambient language in their babbling, i.e., babies’ babbling sounds different depending on which languages they hear. For example, French learning 9-10 month-olds have been found to produce a bigger proportion of prevoiced stops (which exist in French but not English) in their babbling than English learning infants of the same age. This phenomenon of babbling being influenced by the language being acquired has been called babbling drift.\n\nInfants now combine different vowels and consonants into syllable strings. At this stage, infants also produce various stress and intonation patterns. During this transitional period from babbling to the first word children also produce “protowords”, i.e., invented words that are used consistently to express specific meanings, but that are not real words in the children’s target language. Around 12–14 months of age children produce their first word.\nInfants close to one year of age are able to produce rising pitch contours in addition to flat, falling, and rising-falling pitch contours.\n\nAt the age of 1, children only just begin to speak, and their utterances are not adult-like yet at all. Children’s perceptual abilities are still developing, too. In fact, both production and perception abilities continue to develop well into the school years, with the perception of some prosodic features not being fully developed until about 12 years of age.\n\nChildren are able to distinguish newly learned ‘words’ associated with objects if they are not similar-sounding, such as ‘lif’ and ‘neem’. They cannot distinguish similar-sounding newly learned words such as ‘bih’ and ‘dih’, however. So, while children at this age are able to distinguish monosyllabic minimal pairs at a purely phonological level, if the discrimination task is paired with word meaning, the additional cognitive load required by learning the word meanings leaves them unable to spend the extra effort on distinguishing the similar phonology.\n\nChildren’s comprehension vocabulary size ranges from about 92 to 321 words. The production vocabulary size at this age is typically around 50 words. This shows that comprehension vocabulary grows faster than production vocabulary.\n\nAt 18–20 months infants can distinguish newly learned ‘words’, even if they are phonologically similar, e.g. ‘bih’ and ‘dih’. While infants are able to distinguish syllables like these already soon after birth, only now are they able to distinguish them if they are presented to them as meaningful words rather than just a sequence of sounds. \nChildren are also able to detect mispronunciations such as ‘vaby’ for ‘baby’. Recognition has been found to be poorer for mispronounced than for correctly pronounced words. This suggests that infants’ representations of familiar words are phonetically very precise. This result has also been taken to suggest that infants move from a word-based to a segment-based phonological system around 18 months of age.\n\nOf course, the reason why children need to learn the sound distinctions of their language is because then they also have to learn the meaning associated with those different sounds. Young children have a remarkable ability to learn meanings for the words they extract from the speech they are exposed to, i.e., to map meaning onto the sounds. Often children already associate a meaning with a new word after only one exposure. This is referred to as “fast mapping”. \nAt 20 months of age, when presented with three familiar objects (e.g., a ball, a bottle and a cup) and one unfamiliar object (e.g., an egg piercer), children are able to conclude that in the request “Can I have the zib,” zib must refer to the unfamiliar object, i.e., the egg piercer, even if they have never heard that pseudoword before. Children as young as 15 months can complete this task successfully if the experiment is conducted with fewer objects. This task shows that children aged 15 to 20 months can assign meaning to a new word after only a single exposure. Fast mapping is a necessary ability for children to acquire the number of words they have to learn during the first few years of life: Children acquire an average of nine words per day between 18 months and 6 years of age.\n\nAt 2 years, infants show first signs of phonological awareness, i.e., they are interested in word play, rhyming, and alliterations. Phonological awareness does continue to develop until the first years of school. For example, only about half of the 4- and 5-year olds tested by Liberman et al. (1974) were able to tap out the number of syllables in multisyllabic words, but 90% of the 6-year-olds were able to do so.\nMost 3-4-year olds are able to break simple consonant-vowel-consonant (CVC) syllables up into their constituents (onset and rime). The onset of a syllable consists of all the consonants preceding the syllable’s vowel, and the rime is made up of the vowel and all following consonants. For example, the onset in the word ‘dog’ is /d/ and the rime is /og/. Children at 3–4 years of age were able to tell that the nonwords /fol/ and /fir/ would be liked by a puppet whose favorite sound is /f/. 4-year olds are less successful at this task if the onset of the syllable contains a consonant cluster, such as /fr/ or /fl/. \nLiberman et al. found that no 4-year-olds and only 17% of 5-year-olds were able to tap out the number of phonemes (individual sounds) in a word. 70% of 6-year-olds were able to do so. This might mean that children are aware of syllables as units of speech early on, while they don’t show awareness of individual phonemes until school age. Another explanation is that individual sounds do not easily translate into beats, which makes clapping individual phonemes a much more difficult task than clapping syllables. One reason why phoneme awareness gets much better once children start school is because learning to read provides a visual aid as how to break up words into their smaller constituents.\n\nAlthough children perceive rhythmic patterns in their native language at 7–8 months, they are not able to reliably distinguish compound words and phrases that differ only in stress placement, such as ‘HOT dog’ vs. ‘hot DOG’ until around 12 years of age. Children in a study by Vogel and Raimy (2002) were asked to show which of two pictures (i.e., a dog or a sausage) was being named. Children younger than 12 years generally preferred the compound reading (i.e., the sausage) to the phrasal reading (the dog). The authors concluded from this that children start out with a lexical bias, i.e., they prefer to interpret phrases like these as single words, and the ability to override this bias develops until late in childhood.\n\nInfants usually produce their first word around 12 –14 months of age. First words are simple in structure and contain the same sounds that were used in late babbling. The lexical items they produce are probably stored as whole words rather than as individual segments that get put together online when uttering them. This is suggested by the fact that infants at this age may produce the same sounds differently in different words.\n\nChildren’s production vocabulary size at this age is typically around 50 words, although there is great variation in vocabulary size among children in the same age group, with a range between 0 and 160 words for the majority of children.\n\nChildren’s productions become more consistent around the age of 18 months. When their words differ from adult forms, these differences are more systematic than before. These systematic transformations are referred to as “phonological processes”, and often resemble processes that are typically common in the adult phonologies of the world’s languages (cf. reduplication in adult Jamaican Creole: “yellow yellow” = “very yellow” ). Some common phonological processes are listed below.\n\n- \"Weak syllable deletion\": omission of an unstressed syllable in the target word, e.g., for ‘banana’\n\n- \"Final consonant deletion\": omission of the final consonant in the target word, e.g., for ‘because’\n\n- \"Reduplication\": production of two identical syllables based on one of the target word syllables, e.g., for ‘bottle’\n\n- \"Consonant harmony\": a target word consonant takes on features of another target word consonant, e.g., for ‘duck’\n\n- \"Consonant cluster reduction\": omission of a consonant in a target word cluster, e.g., for ‘cracker’\n\n- \"Velar fronting\": a velar is replaced by a coronal sound, e.g., for ‘key’\n\n- \"Stopping\": a fricative is replaced by a stop, e.g., for ‘sea’\n\n- \"Gliding\": a liquid is replaced by a glide, e.g., for ‘rabbit’\n\nThe size of the production vocabulary ranges from about 50 to 550 words at the age of 2 years. Influences on the rate of word learning, and thus on the wide range of vocabulary sizes of children of the same age, include the amount of speech children are exposed to by their caregivers as well as differences in how rich the vocabulary in the speech a child hears is. Children also seem to build up their vocabulary faster if the speech they hear is related to their focus of attention more often. This would be the case if a caregiver talks about a ball the child is currently looking at.\n\nA study by Gathercole and Baddeley (1989) showed the importance of sound for early word meaning. They tested the phonological memory of 4- and 5-year-old children, i.e., how well these children were able to remember a sequence of unfamiliar sounds. They found that children with better phonological memory also had larger vocabularies at both ages. Moreover, phonological memory at age 4 predicted the children’s vocabulary at age 5, even with earlier vocabulary and nonverbal intelligence factored out.\n\nChildren produce mostly adult-like segments. Their ability to produce complex sound sequences and multisyllabic words continues to improve throughout middle childhood.\n\nThe developmental changes in infants’ vocalizations over the first year of life are influenced by physical developments during that time. Physical growth of the vocal tract, brain development, and development of neurological structures responsible for vocalization are factors for the development of infants’ vocal productions.\n\nInfants vocal tracts are smaller, and initially also shaped differently from adults’ vocal tracts. The infant’s tongue fills the entire mouth, thus reducing the range of movement. As the facial skeleton grows, the range for movement increases, which probably contributes to the increased variety of sounds infants start to produce. Development of muscles and sensory receptors also gives infants more control over sound production.\nThe limited movement possible by the infant jaw and mouth might be responsible for the typical consonant-vowel (CV) alternation in babbling and it has even been suggested that the predominance of CV syllables in the languages of the world might evolutionarily have been caused by this limited range of movements of the human vocal organs.\n\nThe differences between the vocal tract of infants and adults can be seen in figure 3 (infants) and figure 4 (adults) below.\n\nCrying and vegetative sounds are controlled by the brain stem, which matures earlier than the cortex. Neurological development of higher brain structures coincides with certain developments in infants’ vocalizations. For example, the onset of cooing at 6 to 8 weeks happens as some areas of the limbic system begin to function. The limbic system is known to be involved in the expression of emotion, and cooing in infants is associated with a feeling of contentedness. Further development of the limbic system might be responsible for the onset of laughter around 16 weeks of age. The motor cortex, finally, which develops later than the abovementioned structures may be necessary for canonical babbling, which start around 6 to 9 months of age.\n"}
{"id": "2621705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621705", "title": "Program on Negotiation", "text": "Program on Negotiation\n\nThe Program on Negotiation (PON) is a university consortium dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution. As a community of scholars and practitioners, PON serves a unique role in the world negotiation community. Founded in 1983 as a special research project at Harvard Law School, PON includes faculty, students, and staff from Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tufts University.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation publishes the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\" and the monthly \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter, and distributes the annual \"Harvard Negotiation Law Review\". Throughout the year PON offers a number of courses and training opportunities ranging in length from one day to an entire semester.\n\nIn 1979, co-authors of the bestseller \"Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement without Giving In\", Roger Fisher and William Ury, along with Bruce Patton founded the Harvard Negotiation Project (HNP), with a mission to improve the theory, teaching, and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution, so that people could deal more constructively with conflicts ranging from the interpersonal to the international. Fisher began by asking the question of what kind of advice could be given to both sides of a dispute, and in researching this question he came in contact with various professors, including James Sebenius, Lawrence Susskind, Frank Sander, and Howard Raiffa, who collaborated to form the Program on Negotiation.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation was founded in 1983 as the world's first teaching and research center dedicated to negotiation and dispute resolution. As an umbrella organization with founding members from both Harvard and MIT, it soon expanded to include Tufts University as one of its consortium schools. Since the beginning, the Program on Negotiation has been multi-disciplinary, with scholars from economics, government, law, business, psychology, anthropology, education, and the arts. Faculty have focused on a wide range of research topics, including deal-making, diplomatic negotiations, international negotiations, psychological aspects of negotiations, decision-making, issues relating to ethics and trust, and labor negotiations.\n\nChair of the Program on Negotiation since 1994, Professor Robert H. Mnookin is Samuel Williston Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Among his recent publications are the books, \"Beyond Winning: Negotiating to Create Value in Deals and Disputes\", and \"Bargaining with the Devil: When to Negotiate, When to Fight\".\n\nThe Program on Negotiation is responsible for multiple publications, including books, special reports, the \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter and the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\", a multidisciplinary international journal published by Wiley-Blackwell detailing the latest advances in the field. PON also regularly produces free reports that are available through their website, such as: \"Teaching Negotiation: Understanding The Impact Of Role-Play Simulations\", \"Business Negotiation Strategies: How to Negotiate Better Business Deals\", \"Negotiation Skills: Negotiation Strategies and Negotiation Techniques to Help You Become a Better Negotiator\", \"Dealmaking: Secrets of Successful Dealmaking in Business Negotiations\", \"Negotiation Strategies for Women: Secrets to Success\", \"Dealing with Difficult People\", \"BATNA Basics: Boost Your Power at the Bargaining Table\", \"Sally Soprano: Role-Play Simulation\", \"Harborco: Role-Play Simulation\", and \"Win-Win or Hardball: Learn Top Strategies from Sports Contract Negotiations\". All of PONs publications including books, case studies, and DVDs can be obtained through the PON Clearinghouse.\n\nPON offers a number of training programs throughout the year on a variety of topics including negotiation, mediation, conflict resolution, deal design, difficult conversations, and many more. PON seminars and courses are open to the public.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation offers one day Author Sessions focused on recent book publications by PON faculty members as part of its Executive Education Series. Recent courses included: Deal-Making and Negotiauctions, Creating a World-class Negotiating Organization, Bargaining with the Devil, and Negotiating International Deals.\n\nExecutive Education courses last for three days, covering strategies for business leaders to handle both successful day-to-day management and long-term strategies for healthy workplace environments. Executives learn tactics for dealing with dirty tricks, threats, attacks, and stonewalls from the other side of the table.\n\nHarvard Negotiation Institute (HNI) classes are offered every June and September on the Harvard Law School campus and cover a broad range of negotiation and mediation skills, ranging from beginning to advanced techniques. Most of the courses offered are five-day classes. However, a 2-day Intensive Negotiation Workshop for Lawyers and Working Professionals is also offered. Recent course offerings included: a mediation workshop, Creating Value in Deals and Disputes, Tools for Preparing and Negotiating Effectively, Deal Design and Implementation, and Difficult Conversations.\n\nOpen to participants from all disciplines and professional fields, the PON Seminars provide negotiation and mediation courses to the community. These semester-length courses are designed to increase public awareness and understanding of successful conflict resolution efforts.\n\nTwo courses are taught each year: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the fall, and Mediation and Conflict Management in the spring. Both courses provide participants with a conceptual framework and practical advice for professional and personal development in dispute resolution. Faculty is drawn from the PON community of scholars and practitioners of alternative dispute resolution.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation also hosts a variety of smaller workshops and intensive two-day courses in addition to their normal course offerings, including on-site training.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation established the Great Negotiator Award in 2000 to honor individuals of extraordinary achievement in dispute resolution. The award is designed not only to honor the accomplishments of outstanding negotiators, but also to focus public attention on the important role of negotiation as society faces increasingly complex disputes in all sectors–public and private, technological and ethical, personal and professional. PON has recognized a diverse cast of distinguished negotiators from their respective fields: Juan Manuel Santos, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and President of Colombia (2017); Martti Ahtisaari, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former President of Finland (2010); Christo and Jeanne-Claude, the artists who created The Gates in Central Park (2008); Bruce Wasserstein, Chairman and CEO of Lazard, an international financial advisory and asset management firm (2007); Sadako Ogata, former United Nations high commissioner for refugees (2005); Richard Holbrooke, former United States ambassador to the United Nations (2004); Stuart Eizenstat, former U.S. ambassador to the European Union (2003); Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations’ special envoy for Afghanistan (2002); Charlene Barshefsky, U.S. trade representative in the second Clinton administration (2001); and former U.S. Senator George Mitchell for his work in Northern Ireland (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50185803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50185803", "title": "Programme for International Student Assessment (2000 to 2012)", "text": "Programme for International Student Assessment (2000 to 2012)\n\nThe Programme for International Student Assessment has had several runs before the most recent one in 2012. The first PISA assessment was carried out in 2000. The results of each period of assessment take about one year and a half to be analysed. First results were published in November 2001. The release of raw data and the publication of technical report and data handbook only took place in spring 2002. The triennial repeats follow a similar schedule; the process of seeing through a single PISA cycle, start-to-finish, always takes over four years. 470,000 15-year-old students representing 65 nations and territories participated in PISA 2009. An additional 50,000 students representing nine nations were tested in 2010.\n\nEvery period of assessment focuses on one of the three competence fields of reading, math, science; but the two others are tested as well. After nine years, a full cycle is completed: after 2000, reading was again the main domain in 2009.\n\nPISA 2012 was presented on 3 December 2013, with results for around 510,000 participating students in all 34 OECD member countries and 31 partner countries. This testing cycle had a particular focus on mathematics, where the mean score was 494. A sample of 1,688 students from Puerto Rico took the assessment, scoring 379 in math, 404 in reading and 401 in science. A subgroup of 44 countries and economies with about 85 000 students also took part in an optional computer-based assessment of problem solving.\n\nShanghai had the highest score in all three subjects. It was followed by Singapore, Hong Kong, Chinese Taipei and Korea in mathematics; Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and Korea in reading and Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and Finland in science.\n\nThey were a sample of about 28 million in the same age group in 65 countries and economies, including the OECD countries, several Chinese cities, Vietnam, Indonesia and several countries in South America.\n\nThe test lasted two hours, was paper-based and included both open-ended and multiple-choice questions.\n\nThe students and school staff also answered a questionnaire to provide background information about the students and the schools.\n\nPISA 2012 was presented on 3 December 2013, with results for around 510,000 participating students in all 34 OECD member countries and 31 partner countries. This testing cycle had a particular focus on mathematics, where the mean score was 494. The mean score in reading was 496 and in science 501.\n\nThe results show distinct groups of high-performers in mathematics: the East Asian countries, with Shanghai, scoring the best result of 613, followed closely by Hong Kong, Japan, Chinese Taipei and South Korea. Among the Europeans, Liechtenstein and Switzerland performed best, with Netherlands, Estonia, Finland, Poland, Belgium, Germany, Austria all posting mathematics scores \"not significantly statistically different from\" one another. The United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand were similarly clustered around the OECD average of 494, with the USA trailing this group at 481.\n\nQatar, Kazakhstan and Malaysia were the countries which showed the greatest improvement in mathematics. The USA and the United Kingdom showed no significant change. Sweden had the greatest fall in mathematics performance over the last ten years, with a similar falling trend also in the two other subjects, and leading politicians in Sweden expressed great worry over the results.\n\nOn average boys scored better than girls in mathematics, girls scored better than boys in reading and the two sexes had quite similar scores in science.\n\nIndonesia, Albania, Peru, Thailand and Colombia were the countries where most students reported being happy at school, while students in Korea, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Estonia and Finland reported least happiness.\n\nThe PISA 2009 cycle included results in mathematics, science and reading for all 36 OECD member countries and 37 partner countries.\n\nOf the partner countries, only selected areas of three countries—India, Venezuela and China—were assessed. PISA 2009+, released in December 2011, included data from 10 additional partner countries which had testing delayed from 2009 to 2010 because of scheduling constraints.\n\nThe results for PISA 2003 were released on 14 December 2004. This PISA cycle tested 275,000 15 year-olds on mathematics, science, reading and problem solving and involved schools from 30 OECD member countries and 11 partner countries. Note that for Science and Reading, the means displayed are for \"All Students\", but for these two subjects (domains), not all of the students answered questions in these domains. In the 2003 OECD Technical Report (pages 208, 209), there are different country means (different than those displayed below) available for students who had exposure to these domains. \n\nThe results for the first cycle of the PISA survey were released on 14 November 2001. 265,000 15 year-olds were tested in 28 OECD countries and 4 partner countries on mathematics, science and reading. An additional 11 countries were tested later in 2002.\n\nThe correlation between PISA 2003 and TIMSS 2003 grade 8 country means is 0.84 in mathematics, 0.95 in science. The values go down to 0.66 and 0.79 if the two worst performing developing countries are excluded. Correlations between different scales and studies are around 0.80. The high correlations between different scales and studies indicate common causes of country differences (e.g. educational quality, culture, wealth or genes) or a homogenous underlying factor of cognitive competence. European Economic Area countries perform slightly better in PISA; the Commonwealth of Independent States and Asian countries in TIMSS. Content balance and years of schooling explain most of the variation.\n\nThe results from PISA 2003 and PISA 2006 were featured in the 2010 documentary Waiting for \"Superman\".\n\nEducation professor Yong Zhao has noted that PISA 2009 did not receive much attention in the Chinese media, and that the high scores in China are due to excessive workload and testing, adding that it's \"no news that the Chinese education system is excellent in preparing outstanding test takers, just like other education systems within the Confucian cultural circle: Singapore, Korea, Japan, and Hong Kong.\"\n\nStudents from Shanghai, China, had the top scores of every category (Mathematics, Reading and Science) in PISA 2009. In discussing these results, PISA spokesman Andreas Schleicher, Deputy Director for Education and head of the analysis division at the OECD’s directorate for education, described Shanghai as a pioneer of educational reform in which \"there has been a sea change in pedagogy\". Schleicher stated that Shanghai abandoned its \"focus on educating a small elite, and instead worked to construct a more inclusive system. They also significantly increased teacher pay and training, reducing the emphasis on rote learning and focusing classroom activities on problem solving.\"\n\nSchleicher also states that PISA tests administered in rural China have produced some results approaching the OECD average: Citing further, as-yet-unpublished OECD research, Schleicher said, \"We have actually done Pisa in 12 of the provinces in China. Even in some of the very poor areas you get performance close to the OECD average.\" Schleicher says that for a developing country, China's 99.4% enrollment in primary education is \"the envy of many countries\". He maintains that junior secondary school participation rates in China are now 99%; and in Shanghai, not only has senior secondary school enrollment attained 98%, but admissions into higher education have achieved 80% of the relevant age group. Schleicher believes that this growth reflects quality, not just quantity, which he contends the top PISA ranking of Shanghai's secondary education confirms. Schleicher believes that China has also expanded school access and has moved away from learning by rote. According to Schleicher, Russia performs well in rote-based assessments, but not in PISA, whereas China does well in both rote-based and broader assessments.\n\nUniversity of Copenhagen Professor Svend Kreiner, who examined in detail PISA's 2006 reading results, noted that in 2006 only about ten percent of the students who took part in PISA were tested on all 28 reading questions. \"This in itself is ridiculous,” Kreiner told Stewart. \"Most people don't know that half of the students taking part in PISA (2006) do not respond to any reading item at all. Despite that, PISA assigns reading scores to these children.\"\n\nThe stable, high marks of Finnish students have attracted a lot of attention. According to Hannu Simola the results reflect a paradoxical mix of progressive policies implemented through a rather conservative pedagogic setting, where the high levels of teachers' academic preparation, social status, professionalism and motivation for the job are concomitant with the adherence to traditional roles and methods by both teachers and pupils in Finland's changing, but still quite paternalistic culture. Others advance Finland's low poverty rate as a reason for its success. Finnish education reformer Pasi Sahlberg attributes Finland's high educational achievements to its emphasis on social and educational equality and stress on cooperation and collaboration, as opposed to the competition among teachers and schools that prevails in other nations.\n\nOf the 74 countries tested in the PISA 2009 cycle including the \"+\" nations, the two Indian states came up 72nd and 73rd out of 74 in both reading and mathematics, and 73rd and 74th in science. India's poor performance may not be linguistic as some suggested. 12.87% of US students, for example, indicated that the language of the test differed from the language spoken at home. while 30.77% of Himachal Pradesh students indicated that the language of the test differed from the language spoken at home, a significantly higher percent However, unlike American students, those Indian students with a different language at home did better on the PISA test than those with the same language. India's poor performance on the PISA test is consistent with India's poor performance in the only other instance when India's government allowed an international organization to test its students and consistent with India's own testing of its elite students in a study titled \"Student Learning in the Metros 2006.\" These studies were conducted using TIMSS questions. The poor result in PISA was greeted with dismay in the Indian media. The BBC reported that as of 2008, only 15% of India's students reach high school.\n\nTwo studies have compared high achievers in mathematics on the PISA and those on the U.S. National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). Comparisons were made between those scoring at the \"advanced\" and \"proficient\" levels in mathematics on the NAEP with the corresponding performance on the PISA. Overall, 30 nations had higher percentages than the U.S. of students at the \"advanced\" level of mathematics. The only OECD countries with worse results were Portugal, Greece, Turkey, and Mexico. Six percent of U.S. students were \"advanced\" in mathematics compared to 28 percent in Taiwan. The highest ranked state in the U.S. (Massachusetts) was just 15th in the world if it was compared with the nations participating in the PISA. 31 nations had higher percentages of \"proficient\" students than the U.S. Massachusetts was again the best U.S. state, but it ranked just ninth in the world if compared with the nations participating in the PISA.\n\nComparisons with results for the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) appear to give different results—suggesting that the U.S. states actually do better in world rankings. This can likely be traced to the different material being covered and the United States teaching mathematics in a style less harmonious with the \"Realistic Mathematics Education\" which forms the basis of the exam. Countries that commonly use this teaching method score higher on PISA, and less highly on TIMSS and other assessments.\n\nStephen Krassen, professor emeritus at the University of Southern California, and Mel Riddile of the NASSP attributed the relatively low performance of students in the United States to the country's high rate of child poverty, which exceeds that of other OECD countries. However, individual US schools with poverty rates comparable to Finland's (below 10%), as measured by reduced-price school lunch participation, outperform Finland; and US schools in the 10–24% reduced-price lunch range are not far behind.\n\nReduced school lunch participation is the only available intra-poverty indicator for US schoolchildren. In the United States, schools in locations in which less than 10% of the students qualified for free or reduced-price lunch averaged PISA scores of 551 (higher than any other OECD country). This can be compared with the other OECD countries (which have tabled figures on children living in relative poverty):\n\nIn 2013 Martin Carnoy of the Stanford University Graduate School of Education and Richard Rothstein of the Economic Policy Institute released a report, \"What do international tests really show about U.S. student performance?\", analyzing the 2009 PISA data base. Their report found that U.S. PISA test scores had been lowered by a sampling error that over-represented adolescents from the most disadvantaged American schools in the test-taking sample. The authors cautioned that international test scores are often “interpreted to show that American students perform poorly when compared to students internationally” and that school reformers then conclude that “U.S. public education is failing.” Such inferences, made before the data has been carefully analyzed, they say, “are too glib” and \"may lead policymakers to pursue inappropriate and even harmful reforms.\"\n\nCarnoy and Rothstein observe that in all countries, students from disadvantaged backgrounds perform worse than those from advantaged backgrounds, and the US has a greater percentage of students from disadvantaged backgrounds. The sampling error on the PISA results lowered U.S. scores for 15-year-olds even further, they say. The authors add, however, that in countries such as Finland, the scores of disadvantaged students tends to be stagnant, whereas in the U.S the scores of disadvantaged students have been steadily rising over time, albeit still lagging behind their those of their more advantaged peers. When the figures are adjusted for social class, the PISA scores of all US students would still remain behind those of the highest scoring countries, nevertheless, the scores of US students of all social backgrounds have shown a trajectory of improvement over time, notably in mathematics, a circumstance PISA's report fails to take into account.\n\nCarnoy and Rothstein write that PISA spokesman Schleicher has been quoted saying that “international education benchmarks make disappointing reading for the U.S.” and that “in the U.S. in particular, poverty was destiny. Low-income American students did (and still do) much worse than high-income ones on PISA. But poor kids in Finland and Canada do far better relative to their more privileged peers, despite their disadvantages” (Ripley 2011).\" Carnoy and Rothstein state that their report's analysis shows Schleicher and Ripley's claims to be untrue. They further fault the way PISA's results have persistently been released to the press before experts have time to evaluate them; and they charge the OECD reports with inconsistency in explaining such factors as the role of parental education. Carnoy and Rothstein also note with alarm that the US secretary of education Arne Duncan regularly consults with PISA's Andreas Schleicher in formulating educational policy before other experts have been given a chance to analyze the results. Carnoy and Rothstein's report (written before the release of the 2011 database) concludes:We are most certain of this: To make judgments only on the basis of national average scores, on only one test, at only one point in time, without comparing trends on different tests that purport to measure the same thing, and without disaggregation by social class groups, is the worst possible choice. But, unfortunately, this is how most policymakers and analysts approach the field.\nThe most recent test for which an international database is presently available is PISA, administered in 2009. A database for TIMSS 2011 is scheduled for release in mid-January 2013. In December 2013, PISA will announce results and make data available from its 2012 test administration. Scholars will then be able to dig into TIMSS 2011 and PISA 2012 databases so they can place the publicly promoted average national results in proper context. The analyses we have presented in this report should caution policymakers to await understanding of this context before drawing conclusions about lessons from TIMSS or PISA assessments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25199", "title": "Quotation", "text": "Quotation\n\nA quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by (punctuated with) quotation marks.\n\nA quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression, especially parts of artistic works: elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.\n\nQuotations are used for a variety of reasons: to illuminate the meaning or to support the arguments of the work in which it is being quoted, to provide direct information about the work being quoted (whether in order to discuss it, positively or negatively), to pay homage to the original work or author, to make the user of the quotation seem well-read, and/or to comply with copyright law. Quotations are also commonly printed as a means of inspiration and to invoke philosophical thoughts from the reader. Pragmatically speaking, quotations can also be used as language games (in the Wittgensteinian sense of the term) to manipulate social order and the structure of society. \n\nFamous quotations are frequently collected in books that are sometimes called quotation dictionaries or treasuries. Of these, \"Bartlett's Familiar Quotations\", \"The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations\", \"The Columbia Dictionary of Quotations\", \"The Yale Book of Quotations\" and \"The Macmillan Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Famous Phrases\" are considered among the most reliable and comprehensive sources. Diaries and calendars often include quotations for entertainment or inspirational purposes, and small, dedicated sections in newspapers and weekly magazines—with recent quotations by leading personalities on current topics—have also become commonplace.\n\nChiefly a text medium in the beginning, the World Wide Web gave rise to any number of personal quotation collections that continue to flourish, even though very few of them seem to facilitate accurate information or correct citation.\n\nThe increase of written means of informal communication brought about by the Internet has produced the practice of using quotations as personal flags, as in one's own signature block. This is most commonly seen in email messages and Usenet posts, while it is almost never seen in blog posts. Quotations are also popular as a user's personal message, a line under the user's nickname in some Instant Messaging clients (and here they often go uncited). In all these cases, quotations are usually included to give a glimpse of the user's personality, to make a statement of their beliefs, or to spread views and ideas.\n\nThe sheer bulk of online quotations, combined with more efficient search engines, has effectively made the Internet the world's quotation storehouse, encompassing an unprecedented number of easily obtainable quotations. Though matters of accuracy still remain, features such as Amazon.com's \"Search Inside the Book\" and Google Book Search may serve to alleviate such concerns.\n\nSection 30(1) of the United Kingdom Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (apparently in transposition of Article 5(3)(d) of the EU Copyright Directive on quotations) allows fair dealing with a copyrighted work for the purpose of criticism or review, provided that it is accompanied by sufficient acknowledgement.\n\nMany quotations are routinely incorrect or attributed to the wrong authors, and quotations from obscure or unknown writers are often attributed to far more famous writers. Examples of this are Winston Churchill, to whom many political quotations of uncertain origin are attributed, and Oscar Wilde, to whom anonymous humorous quotations are sometimes attributed.\n\nThe \"Star Trek\" catchphrase \"Beam me up, Scotty\" did not appear in that form in the original series. Other misquotations include \"Just the facts, ma'am\" (attributed to Jack Webb's character of Joe Friday on \"Dragnet\"), \"Elementary, my dear Watson\" (attributed to Sherlock Holmes), \"Luke, I am your father\" (attributed to Darth Vader in Star Wars), \"Play it again, Sam\" (attributed to Ilsa in \"Casablanca\"), \"Do you feel lucky, punk?\" (attributed to Harry Callahan in \"Dirty Harry\") and \"We don't need no stinkin' badges!\" (attributed to Gold Hat in \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\"). \n\nThe Dirty Harry quotation \"Do you feel lucky, punk?\" is a rewording of the original dialogue: \"You've got to ask yourself one question: 'Do I feel lucky?' Well, do ya, punk?\" Humphrey Bogart's character Rick in \"Casablanca\" never said \"Play it again, Sam.\" The actual expression is \"Play it, Sam.\" Mae West did not say \"Why don't you come up sometime and see me?\" in \"She Done Him Wrong\", but rather \"Why don't you come up and see me sometime?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1022879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022879", "title": "Rural delivery service", "text": "Rural delivery service\n\nRural delivery service refers to services for the delivery of mail to rural areas. Examples include Rural Free Delivery in the United States and the Rural Mail Box addressing system in Australia. Such services may be based on post roads, or may make use of alternate forms of transport, such as mail delivery by animal, including dogs and pigeons.\n\nSuch services are in contrast to those suitable only to urban areas, such as the Prague pneumatic post and the London Pneumatic Despatch Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "52799523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52799523", "title": "Schoolgirl Strikers", "text": "Schoolgirl Strikers\n\nThe newly established private high school for girls, Goryoukan Academy, has a hidden face that people on the outside don't know about. The world you know is under threat by aliens, named \"Oburi\" (apparitions). These enemies are too strong for normal humans, and are especially threatening due to the fact that they can travel through to the 'fourth' dimension where they can be safe. For some reason, certain young girls are able to harness the power to transverse these dimensions, and enter a 'fifth' dimension - a parallel universe.\n\nThe only ones capable of fighting this enemy of mankind are girls known as \"Strikers\", who have the ability to sense the fifth dimension. Goryoukan Academy is actually an organization that seeks out girls who are more than meets the eye and trains them up for the \"Fifth Force\", a combat force created to subjugate the Oburi.\n\nThere are endless amounts of parallel universes, all of which are similar but run in their own way. The Strikers are able to fight the Oburi by searching these alternate worlds for alternative \"Memory card\" (Memoca) costumes that are usable by them and effective against the \"Oburi\".\n\nYou have been chosen by a mysterious person to lead a group of 5 girls in defeating an enemy that is threatening to destroy the world. Why you were chosen and who you are yourself is a mystery...\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n is one of the missing teams that carries the name of Caramel and Spica, and it is dissolved at the start of the game.\n\nSchoolgirl Strikers is a card collecting mobile game with RPG and visual novel influences. It was released in 2014 and is available for iOS and Android devices. Some of the things that make Schoolgirl Strikers different from your average card collecting game are the special story missions and the 3D battle system; along with the ability to dress the girls up as you see fit. The way the battle system as a whole works is also quite different; you can choose any girls you want (limited to 5 at a time) to be in your team as long as you have at least one card of them. Then you add main and sub \"Memocas\" to them instead of just simply putting the cards themselves in a battle deck. The main Memocas also affect the girls' appearances in battle.\n\nAn original anime television adaption has been announced, Hiroshi Nishikiori directed the series at J.C.Staff with scripts written by Takao Yoshioka and Mizuto Suzuki and Kengo Tokusashi produced the music at Square Enix. The anime aired between January 7 to April 1, 2017 on Tokyo MX with further broadcasting on BS11, AT-X, KBS, and Sun TV; Crunchyroll streamed the anime. The series ran for 13 episodes and released across seven BD/DVD volumes.\n\nSchoolgirl Strikers: Twinkle Melodies (スクールガールストライカーズ ～トゥインクルメロディーズ～ \"Sukurugāru Sutorāikazu ~Tuinkuru Merodīzu~\") is a spin-off game also released for iPhone and Android devices. Set in the same universe as the original game, Twinkle Melodies is a rhythm game focused on a new team named Apricot Regulus, who want to be a Japanese idol group due to their abilities for singing. Characters from the original Schoolgirl Strikers appears in Twinkle Melodies, with the exception of Chocolate Mira and Almond Fomalhaut groups as the Others as well. The game features an anime opening and a new character design.\n\n"}
{"id": "276949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276949", "title": "Sexual identity", "text": "Sexual identity\n\nSexual identity is how one thinks of oneself in terms of to whom one is romantically or sexually attracted. \"Sexual identity\" may also refer to sexual orientation identity, which is when people identify or dis-identify with a sexual orientation or choose not to identify with a sexual orientation. Sexual identity and sexual behavior are closely related to sexual orientation, but they are distinguished, with \"identity\" referring to an individual's conception of themselves, \"behavior\" referring to actual sexual acts performed by the individual, and \"sexual orientation\" referring to romantic or sexual attractions toward persons of the opposite sex or gender, the same sex or gender, to both sexes or more than one gender, or to no one.\n\nHistorical models of sexual identity have tended to view its formation as a process undergone only by sexual minorities, while more contemporary models view the process as far more universal and attempt to present sexual identity within the larger scope of other major identity theories and processes.\n\nSexual identity has been described as a component of an individual's identity that reflects their sexual self-concept. The integration of the respective identity components (e.g. moral, religious, ethnic, occupational) into a greater overall identity is essential to the process of developing the multi-dimensional construct of identity.\n\nSexual identity can change throughout an individual's life, and may or may not align with biological sex, sexual behavior or actual sexual orientation.<ref name=\"Concordance/discordance in SO\"></ref> For example, gay, lesbian, and bisexual people may not openly identify as such in a homophobic/heterosexist setting or in areas whose record on LGBT rights is poor. In a 1990 study by the Social Organization of Sexuality, only 16% of women and 36% of men who reported some level of same-sex attraction had a homosexual or bisexual identity.\n\nSexual identity is more closely related to sexual behavior than sexual orientation is. The same survey found that 96% of women and 87% of men with a homosexual or bisexual identity had engaged in sexual activity with someone of the same sex, contrasted to 32% of women and 43% of men who had same-sex attractions. Upon reviewing the results, the organization commented: \"Development of self-identification as homosexual or gay is a psychological and socially complex state, something which, in this society, is achieved only over time, often with considerable personal struggle and self-doubt, not to mention social discomfort.\"\n\nUnlabeled sexuality is when an individual chooses to not label their sexual identity. This identification could stem from one's uncertainty about their sexuality or their unwillingness to conform to a sexuality because they don't necessarily like labels, or they wish to feel free in their attractions instead of feeling forced into same, other, both, or pan attractions because of their sexual identity. Identifying as unlabeled could also be because of one's \"unwillingness to accept their sexual minority status.\" Because being unlabeled is the purposeful decision of no sexual identity, it is different from bisexuality or any other sexual identity. Those who are unlabeled are more likely to view sexuality as less stable and more fluid and tend to focus more on the “person, not the gender.”\nIt is reported that some women who identify as unlabeled did so because they are unable or uncertain about the types of relationships they will have in the future. As such, this divergence from sexual labels could provide for a person to be able to more fully realize their \"true\" sexuality because it frees them from the pressure of liking and being attracted to who their sexual identification dictates they should like.\n\nMost of the research on sexual orientation identity development focuses on the development of people who are attracted to the same sex. Many people who feel attracted to members of their own sex come out at some point in their lives. \"Coming out\" is described in three phases. The first phase is the phase of \"knowing oneself,\" and the realization emerges that one is sexually and emotionally attracted to members of one's own sex. This is often described as an internal coming out and can occur in childhood or at puberty, but sometimes as late as age 40 or older. The second phase involves a decision to come out to others, e.g. family, friends, and/or colleagues, while the third phase involves living openly as an LGBT person. In the United States today, people often come out during high school or college age. At this age, they may not trust or ask for help from others, especially when their orientation is not accepted in society. Sometimes they do not inform their own families.\n\nAccording to Rosario, Schrimshaw, Hunter, Braun (2006), \"the development of a lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB) sexual identity is a complex and often difficult process. Unlike members of other minority groups (e.g., ethnic and racial minorities), most LGB individuals are not raised in a community of similar others from whom they learn about their identity and who reinforce and support that identity\" and \"[r]ather, LGB individuals are often raised in communities that are either ignorant of or openly hostile toward homosexuality.\"\n\nSome individuals with unwanted sexual attractions may choose to actively dis-identify with a sexual minority identity, which creates a different sexual orientation identity from their actual sexual orientation. Sexual orientation identity, but not sexual orientation, can change through psychotherapy, support groups, and life events. A person who has homosexual feelings can self-identify in various ways. An individual may come to accept an LGB identity, to develop a heterosexual identity, to reject an LGB identity while choosing to identify as ex-gay, or to refrain from specifying a sexual identity. In a \"The Wall Street Journal\" article on reconciling faith and homosexuality, researcher Judith Glassgold, who chaired the task force, stated, \"We're not trying to encourage people to become \"ex-gay\"’\" and \"there has been little research on the long-term effects of rejecting a gay identity, but there is 'no clear evidence of harm' and 'some people seem to be content with that path'\".\n\nSeveral models have been created to describe coming out as a process for gay and lesbian identity development (e.g. Dank, 1971; Cass, 1984; Coleman, 1989; Troiden, 1989). These historical models have taken a view of sexual identity formation as a sexual-minority process only. However, not every LGBT person follows such a model. For example, some LGBT youth become aware of and accept their same-sex desires or gender identity at puberty in a way similar to which heterosexual teens become aware of their sexuality, i.e. free of any notion of difference, stigma or shame in terms of the gender of the people to whom they are attracted. More contemporary models take the stance that it is a more universal process. Current models for the development of sexual identity attempt to incorporate other models of identity development, such as Marcia’s ego-identity statuses.\n\nThe Cass identity model, established by Vivienne Cass, outlines six discrete stages transited by individuals who successfully come out: (1) identity confusion, (2) identity comparison, (3) identity tolerance, (4) identity acceptance, (5) identity pride, and (6) identity synthesis. Fassinger's model of gay and lesbian identity development contains four stages at the individual and group level: (1) awareness, (2) exploration, (3) deepening/commitment, and (4) internalization/synthesis.\n\nSome models of sexual identity development do not use discrete, ordered stages, but instead conceptualize identity development as consisting of independent identity processes. For example, D'Augelli's model describes six unordered independent identity processes: (1) exiting heterosexual identity, (2) Developing personal LGB identity status, (3) Developing a LGB social identity, (4) Becoming a LGB offspring, (5) Developing a LGB intimacy status, and (6) Entering a LGB community.\n\nThe Unifying Model of Sexual Identity Development is currently the only model that incorporates heterosexual identity development within its statuses to include compulsory heterosexuality, active exploration, diffusion, deepening and commitment to status, and synthesis.\n\nContemporary models view sexual identity formation as a universal process, rather than a sexual minority one, in that it is not only sexual minorities that undergo sexual identity development, but heterosexual populations as well. More recent research has supported these theories, having demonstrated that heterosexual populations display all of Marcia’s statuses within the domain of sexual identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49999561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49999561", "title": "Simple Life Festival", "text": "Simple Life Festival\n\nThe Simple Life Festival () is a cultural event held in Taiwan every two years. The festival is initially organized by two Taiwanese musicians: Jonathan Lee and Landy Chang since December, 2006.\nIn the Simple Life Festival, its activities consist of music performance, book sharing, creative markets, and so on. In addition to large amounts of performance from singers and bands, the Simple Life Festival also provides a place for local farmers, designers of cloths or goods, and artistic creators to meet with each other. It is a platform for non-profit organizations to express their opinions, following with its goal to capture the most beautiful people and scene in Taiwan.\n\n“\"There is a corner in everyone’s mind dreaming of a simple and natural life. We hope (through the Simple Life Festival) we can aggregate diverse creative elements, and then helps this society to look for innovative industry power.\"” – Landy Chang\n\nAccording to Landy Chang, the Simple Life Festival is not only a music festival; instead, based on the core spirit of music festival, the Simple Life Festival further extends the notion, and covers wider topics. It is composed of multiple concepts, including some international trendy issues, the launch of creative market, downshifting, the thought of doing something you like, and make something you like rewarding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405108", "title": "Skou languages", "text": "Skou languages\n\nThe Sko or Skou languages are a small language family spoken by about 7000 people, mainly along the coast of Sandaun Province in Papua New Guinea, with a few being inland from this area and at least one just across the border in the Indonesian province of Papua (formerly known as Irian Jaya). Skou languages are unusual in New Guinea for being tonal. Vanimo, for example, has three tones, \"high, mid, low.\"\n\nCurrently there are linguists working on most of these languages, writing grammars, compiling dictionaries, and assisting the speakers to develop vernacular materials for use in schools.\n\nSkou languages were first linked by G. Frederici in 1912. In 1941, K.H. Thomas expanded the family to its current extent.\n\nThe Sko family is not accepted by Søren Wichmann (2013), who splits it into two separate groups.\n\nLaycock posited two branches, Vanimo and Krisa: \n\nHowever, Krisa is poorly supported and Malcolm Ross abandoned it,\n\nMark Donohue proposed a subclassification based on areal diffusion he called \"Macro-Skou\". \n\nThe pronouns Ross reconstructs for proto-Skou are,\n\nThe Skou languages also have a dual, with a distinction between inclusive and exclusive we, but the forms are not reconstructable for the proto-language.\n\n"}
{"id": "4830974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4830974", "title": "Social issues of the 1920s in the United States", "text": "Social issues of the 1920s in the United States\n\nThe 1920s was the rise of a variety of social issues amidst a rapidly changing world. Conflicts arose concerning what was considered acceptable and respectable and what ought to be proscribed or made illegal. The conflict quickly coalesced into one largely between the liberal urban areas against the conservative rural areas.\n\nDuring the 1920s, the population in cities rapidly grew. Crime and political corruption became common and acceptable. Following a relatively conservative period following the First World War, a liberalism began to spread throughout urban areas during the years following 1925. Urban areas began to hold increasingly liberal views of sex, alcohol, drugs, and homosexuality. The view that women and minorities were entitled to equality became increasingly prevalent in urban areas, especially among the educated. For example, the actor William Haines, who was regularly named in newspapers and magazines as the No. 1 male box-office draw, openly lived in a gay relationship with his lover Jimmie Shields. Many people in rural areas became increasingly shocked at all the changes they saw occurring and many responded by becoming reactionary. The Volstead Act, a law meant to uphold the Eighteenth Amendment, was difficult to enforce due to lack of funding, short staffing and a disregard and disdain for a law that was deemed ridiculous. The fact that members of congress became drunk from toasts after passing the Eighteenth Amendment reveals that even those who were supposed to be setting an example did not take the law seriously. This lack of respect for the law enforcement eventually spread to other areas of culture, and many conservative members of the United States Congress criticized this lack of order as stemming from the rampant use of alcohol.\n\nIt made for great oratory between eminent rivals, and it put the debate over teaching evolution on front pages across the country. But one thing the Scopes \"monkey trial\" of 1925 did not do was settle the contentious issue of evolution in the schools, which continues to incite strong passions and court actions to this day. \n\nThe trial was about challenging a newly passed Tennessee state law against teaching evolution or any other theory denying the biblical account of the creation of man. Broadly, the case reflected a collision of traditional views and values with more modern ones: It was a time of evangelism by figures such as Aimee Semple McPherson and Billy Sunday against forces, including jazz, sexual permissiveness, and racy Hollywood movies, which they thought were undermining the authority of the Bible and Christian morals in society.\n\nJohn Scopes, the 24-year-old defendant, taught in the public high school in Dayton, Tenn., and included evolution in his curriculum. He agreed to be the focus of a test case attacking the new law, and was arrested for teaching evolution and tried with the American Civil Liberties Union backing his defense. His lawyer was the legendary Clarence Darrow, who, besides being a renowned defense attorney for labor and radical figures, was an avowed agnostic in religious matters. \n\nThe state's attorney was William Jennings Bryan, a Christian, pacifist, and former candidate for the U.S. presidency. He agreed to take the case because he believed that evolution theory led to dangerous social movements. And he believed the Bible should be interpreted literally. \n\nThe weather was stiflingly hot and the rhetoric equally heated in this \"trial of the century\" attended by hundreds of reporters and others who crowded the Rhea County Courthouse in July 1925. Rather than the validity of the law under which Scopes was being charged, the authority of the Bible versus the soundness of Darwin's theory became the focus of the arguments. \n\n\"Millions of guesses strung together,\" is how Bryan characterized evolutionary theory, adding that the theory made man \"indistinguishable among the mammals.\" Darrow, in his attacks, tried to poke holes in the Genesis story according to modern thinking, calling them \"fool ideas that no intelligent Christian on earth believes.\" \n\nThe jury found Scopes guilty of violating the law and fined him. Bryan and the anti-evolutionists claimed victory, and the Tennessee law would stand for another 42 years. But Clarence Darrow and the ACLU had succeeded in publicizing scientific evidence for evolution, and the press reported that though Bryan had won the case, he had lost the argument. The verdict did have a chilling effect on teaching evolution in the classroom, however, and not until the 1960s did it reappear in schoolbooks.\n\nAmerica's isolationist philosophy after World War I gave rise to a xenophobic feeling across the nation. This was concentrated in rural areas and especially in the Southern United States and Indiana, where the Ku Klux Klan gained widespread support and sought to persecute immigrants and minorities in the 1920s. At the same time, communism was still a new philosophy in government, and much of the general American public held a hostile view toward it, especially after the 1919 United States anarchist bombings. The beginning of the 1920s saw the height and fall of First Red Scare as exemplified in the trials of Sacco and Vanzetti. This opposition to communism was caused by the bloody terror of the Bolshevik Revolution.\n\nRising nativism and illiberality also found expression after World War I in the reemergence and phenomenal growth of the Ku Klux Klan. Unlike the original Reconstruction-era Klan which was purely a southern phenomenon intent on holding the freed slave in a position of inferiority, the modern Klan formed active chapters in every region of the country and temporarily gained both respectability and political power.\n\nThe time was ripe for a secret and seemingly all-powerful organization committed to reasserting traditional American values by force and intimidation if necessary. Such was the effect of World War I and the paranoia of the Red Scare. To millions of Americans in the postwar era, the country seemed beset with problems and on the verge of ruin. \"The white, native-born Protestant American, as a member of the religious and racial majority, was usually incapable of doubting his native institutions. The blame for the maladies of his world must rest elsewhere. And so he looked to alien influences - Roman Catholics who supposedly challenged Protestant hegemony and the separation of church and state. Catholic, Orthodox, and Jewish immigrants crowding onto American shores, Negroes seeking more equitable treatment, American Jews who kept living costs up while wages went down, and numerous other elements of frustration before which he felt helpless. Then the Klan entered his community and offered him a way to fight back.\" Now was the time to fight back, to reassert traditional values, or lose forever those qualities which had made America great.\n\nIt's not surprising that the Klan's strongest supporters were residents of the rural and isolated countryside and city dwellers who had just recently arrived from the farm who were shocked by the lifestyles they witnessed in the big city. The drastic changes of the preceding half century had largely passed them by and lessened their influence in the country they felt they had once dominated. Now resentment of city and city people and nativism came together in the form of the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nUsing violence, intimidation, and organized political activity, the Klan lashed out at those groups which seemingly were defiling America with strange customs, strange religions, and strange morals. The Klan supported the deportations crusade of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer at the height of the Red Scare. The Klan pressured Congress to limit immigration into the country. Such limitations would also stem the flow of Roman Catholics and Jews into what had always been primarily a Protestant country.\n\nPerhaps their strongest efforts, at least in Texas and other southwestern states, was to impose middle-class Protestant morality on all members of society no matter where they lived. According to Charles C. Alexander in his study The Klan in the Southwest : \"There was also in the Klan a definite strain of moral bigotry. Especially in the Southwest this zeal found expression in direct, often violent, attempts to force conformity. Hence the southwestern Klansmanís conception of reform encompassed efforts to preserve premarital chastity, marital fidelity, and respect for parental authority; to compel obedience to state and national prohibition laws; to fight the postwar crime wave; and to rid state and local governments of dishonest politicians.\" Individuals in Texas thus were threatened, beaten, or tarred-and-feathered for practicing the \"new morality,\" cheating on their spouses, beating their spouses or children, looking at women in a lewd manner, imbibing alcohol, etc.\n\nThe Klan began to participate in politics in order to cleanse this arena of corruption and to legislate their idea of moral behavior. Because it attracted, at least in the beginning, \"respectable\" members of society, the Klan quickly gained significant political power at the state and local levels of government. In Texas for instance the Klan was able to elect a number of local officials in Austin, Houston, and Dallas. Historians feel that members of the Klan probably constituted a majority of the Texas legislature between 1922 and 1924. The Texas Klan even had one of its own, Earl B. Mayfield of Austin, elected to the U. S. Senate at the height of its power. The Klan grew so powerful on the national scene by 1924 that opponents were unable to convince the Democratic party's convention that year to censure the Klan for its intolerance and violent methods.\n\nIt was widely recognized at the time that the Klan's most powerful chapter in the nation was that in Indiana. In 1923, the membership of the Indiana Klan exploded when local recruiter David Curtiss Stephenson became the organization's Grand Wizard. By late 1923, Stephenson led the Indiana Klan in breaking away from the national organization and forming a rival group. The Indiana Klan stressed more social issues than racism, as it promised to uphold moral standards, help enforce Prohibition, and end political corruption. The Klan also publicly attacked adulterers, gamblers, and undisciplined youths. Stephenson gained the support of many ministers and church congregations for these appeals to populist issues, and the Klan grew rapidly in Indiana. \n\nAt the height of its power the Klan had over 250,000 members, which was over 30% of state's white male population. The highest concentration was around the central part of the state. Though it counted a high number of members statewide, its importance peaked in the 1924 election of Edward L. Jackson for governor. Switching from the Democrat to the more popular Republican Party, Stephenson sought to cement control over Indiana's political scene. During the 1924 November elections in Indiana, Jackson and several other elected Republican officials in the state were handpicked by Stephenson after they signed pledges affirming support for him. Following the election, Stephenson was then regarded as \"the law in Indiana.\"\n\nYet just when the Klan seemed to wield such power and influence, it was actually on the verge of collapse. In the mid-twenties the Klan was beset by a series of internal struggles and scandals that resulted in political losses. The fall of Klan's power in Indiana would have a devastating impact on the organization's influence nationwide. \n\nThe Indiana Klan's influence was diminished in 1925 after Stephenson kidnapped and raped local educator Madge Oberholtzer, who died soon afterwards in large part due to a staph infection she obtained as a result of the injuries Stephenson inflicted on her during this ordeal. Though it was acknowledged that Oberholtzer's decision to attempt suicide by swallowing mercuric chloride tablets contributed to her kidney failure, it was determined through an autopsy that the injuries Stephenson inflicted on her were also sufficient enough to kill her because the staph infection which resulted from them had reached both her lungs and kidneys. The autopsy also determined that Oberholtzer also might have been saved if Stephenson had not refused to take her to a hospital while he took her hostage; in her dying declaration, Oberholtzer claimed that she recanted her decision to allow herself to die and asked Stephenson to take her to a hospital, but he refused to do so because she would not agree to marry him. In November of 1925, Stephenson was convicted of second degree murder and was given a life sentence. In addition to the rape and murder, evidence released during his trial gravely weakened the Indiana Klan's propaganda when it was revealed that Stephenson, who had often defended Protestant womanhood and Prohibition in public, was in private a womanizer and an alcoholic. With the Stephenson affair damaging the Klan's image as upholders of law and morality, their influence on American society was severely crippled by 1926. \n\nIn 1927, Stephenson would retaliate to Jackson's refusal to pardon him by having his aids release the documented pledges which proved that several Indiana politicians, including Jackson, had accepted bribes and other illegal favors from the Indiana Klan in exchange for their support. The state filed indictments against Governor Jackson; George V. \"Cap\" Coffin, chairman of the Marion County Republican Party; and attorney Robert I. Marsh, charging them with conspiring to bribe former Governor Warren McCray. The mayor of Indianapolis, John Duvall, was convicted and sentenced to jail for 30 days (and barred from political service for four years). Some Republican commissioners of Marion County resigned from their posts after being charged with accepting bribes from the Klan and Stephenson.\nThe nativism of the postwar era peaked and began to recede with the passage of the National Origins Act and with it the appeal of the Klan lost its luster. Furthermore, the \"respectable\" members of the Klan, shocked by its violent tendencies, began to drop out and by the end of the decade the Klan was once again viewed by most Americans as part of the extremist lunatic fringe.\n\nSupport for immigration restrictions, which began at the turn of the century and had built steadily for twenty years, led to congressional passage of the National Origins Act. This legislation severely restricted the total number of foreigners who would be allowed to enter the United States legally in any given year. It also instituted a quota system intentionally designed to hit Asia and eastern and southern Europe the hardest. The impact was to shut the doors of the country to Asians altogether and slow the flood of Italians, Poles, and Russians to a bare trickle of what it had been.\n\nImmigration curtailment was unquestionably part of the rural counterattack of the 1920s. The countryside was the most Anglo-Saxon, the most Protestant, the most traditional area of the nation and the region that felt most threatened by continued immigration. The fact that rural residents were most supportive of immigration restrictions is clearly borne out by the fact that not a single congressman from south of the Mason-Dixon line or west of the Mississippi River voted against the National Origins Act. Only in the urban Northeast was there opposition. With the number of immigrants thus limited, many felt perhaps America could be saved.\n\nThe urban-rural confrontation of the 1920s seems neatly symbolized by the presidential election of 1928 and the defection of many traditional Democrats to the Republican candidate because of their shock at the nomination of Al Smith by their own party.\n\nThe Republican Party was riding the crest of national popularity in 1928, basking in the glow of the economic boom which Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge had seemingly engineered. Herbert Hoover's election became inevitable when many lifelong Democrats in the South and Southwest rejected their party's nominee. Rural Democrats simply could vote for Smith because he seemed to represent everything that threatened their America. He was a practicing Roman Catholic in a decade of virulent anti-Catholicism. He opposed national prohibition and openly flaunted the law during the election campaign. Furthermore, he was suspect because of his links to the urban political machine - Tammany Hall of New York City.\n\nIn contrast, Hoover, while a member of the Republican Party, which had long been discredited in the South and Southwest because of the Reconstruction experience, was a native of Iowa, one of the most rural states in the union. He was a Protestant who openly and forcefully supported Prohibition. Unlike Smith, he was untainted by any association with machine politics. Rather, his character and reputation seemed sterling. He had saved Europe from starvation in the aftermath of World War I by leading a volunteer relief campaign, he was a self-made millionaire, and, as secretary of commerce from 1921 to 1928, had helped produce the current economic boom. J. Frank Norris, a leading fundamentalist pastor in Texas, campaigned across the state on behalf of Hoover saying that the only real issue in the campaign was Smith's Catholicism. Norris and others painted dire pictures of the future should Smith be victorious. The pope would actually be running the country and very quickly separation of church and state and freedom of religion would be relics of America's distant past.\n\nThe strength of the urban-rural confrontation in the election can be seen in the fact that Texas - rural, Protestant, and solidly Democratic in its historic party affiliation - ended up in the Republican party column for the first time in its history. Nor was it alone. Hoover also carried the old Confederate states of Florida, North Carolina, and Virginia. Such was the strength of rural disaffection with an increasingly urban, industrial, and culturally diverse America\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28737539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737539", "title": "Street people", "text": "Street people\n\nStreet people are people who live a public life on the streets of a city. Street people are frequently homeless, sometimes mentally ill, and often have a transient lifestyle. Certain neighborhoods, especially those in neighborhoods near universities, such as Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley, California, The Ave in Seattle, Washington, or the Pearl Street Mall in Boulder, Colorado often host street people. They may also frequent bohemian commercial districts such as Colfax Avenue in Denver. Individual street people may be familiar figures to the entire community.\n\nExamples of well-known street people are José María López Lledín who lived a public life on the streets of Havana during the 1950s, Mr. Butch of Boston, Leslie Cochran of Austin, Juan of Seattle, or Louis Thomas Hardin (\"Moondog\") who was a street musician, inventor, and later homeless person in the 1940s through to 1970s in New York City.\n\nContemporary street people in the United States include hippies, some of whom may be beggars who often ask for spare change on the streets; bag ladies who often have all their possessions in a shopping cart which accompanies them. They also may include street performers, and people with chronic mental illness.\n\nThe term street people is used somewhat loosely and may be used simply to refer to eccentric people who live in Bohemian neighborhoods. However, the defining characteristic is time spent in the street, wandering the streets for a substantial portion of their day or night. This street presence combined with their distinctive disheveled appearance, result in some individuals becoming familiar to residents of the neighborhood they frequent.\n\nStreet people are said to have an unwritten code or set of rules that govern interaction between street people. Referred to as the \"Code of the Road\" it emerged from the Hobo camps of the depression era to encompass urban street people. The \"Code of the Road\" was detailed in Xploited Magazine.\n\nPoor economic and social conditions can result in accumulations of the homeless, often called street people, in certain neighborhoods. This may result in revival of vagrancy laws, or similar laws which may prohibit lying or sitting on the street. Results and attitudes vary, especially as liberal communities attempt to grapple with large numbers of the homeless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53272665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53272665", "title": "Sweden-bashing", "text": "Sweden-bashing\n\nSweden-bashing is when Sweden is subjected to unfair criticism by non-Swedes that is either motivated by a desire for increased standing in their own home countries, or intended to influence Swedish government policies or social institutions.\n\nAt a 2016 discussion forum titled \"Transnationalizing Swedish–American Relations\", Carl Marklund, a postdoctoral researcher in Eastern European studies at Södertörn University, argued that Swedish conservatives had been influenced by American criticism of the Swedish welfare state in the 1970s and 80s. Marklund said that Swedes had \"used the United States as a source of inspiration as well as a warning, seeking not primarily to understand the United States but to promote or prevent social change in Sweden.\" Furthermore, Marklund argued, Sweden was viewed similarly by Americans, \"as both a model and a dangerous example of a welfare state.\" Marklund referred to this as \"Sweden-bashing\".\n\nThe term has also been used by journalists and by Swedish government officials discussing Swedish foreign relations, as well as by other commentators.\n\nIn proposing the use of the term \"Sweden-bashing\", historian Dr. Carl Marklund posited the phenomenon as follows:\n\n[T]he often cited exemplarity of Sweden among progressive countries worldwide—due to its Third World solidarity abroad as well as its social policies at home—also made it the subject of an admittedly marginal, but vocal genre of diagnosis and criticism, first from conservatives, later from liberals, that can be termed \"Sweden-bashing.\" Key themes in this genre include allegedly totalitarian tendencies in the Swedish welfare state as well as a supposedly anti-Western bias in Swedish Cold War neutrality\n\nSweden-bashing was used in the 1960s U.S. presidential election between Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy. In 1960 while addressing the Republican National Committee, President Eisenhower described Sweden as a cautionary tale about socialism and government intrusion into the affairs of individuals. He described Sweden as engaging in an \"experiment of almost complete paternalism\", and cited what he said were allegedly high rates of alcoholism, suicide, and divorce, as well as a \"lack of ambition\".\n\nAlthough American criticisms of Swedish welfare policies were initially received with skepticism among Swedish conservatives, they gradually became accepted as part of a \"shift to the right\" in Sweden's self-image and perception abroad. He wrote that this \"underscor[ed] how originally distant actors, marginal discourses and random events may be amplified through transnational circulation of ideas and images\", and noted that some regarded the shift to the right as evidence of a counter-strategy by business interests to oppose the radical left of the 1970s, or as a \"purposive elite strategy of political communication.\"\n\nA renewal of negative American publicity about Sweden followed the Social Democrats' return to power in 1982, focusing on alleged problems of rising racism and xenophobia focused on immigrants. He also noted that Gösta Grassman, a foreign affairs press officer with the Swedish government, had referred to criticism of the Swedish welfare state as \"the 1984 reports\" due to the portrayal of Sweden as a totalitarian state by such critics. Grassman said that in this new strain of criticism, the previous portrayal of Sweden's welfare state as a ploy to mask what was allegedly a covert form of capitalism had evolved into a similar allegation that the welfare state masked what was allegedly a form of socialism. The point of the reference to \"Nineteen Eighty-four\", the dystopian novel by George Orwell, according to Grassman, was \"to shock by reimagining a democratic, egalitarian, and prosperous Western society as 'totalitarian.'\"\n\nMarklund wrote that in the tumult of debate, \"it became increasingly difficult to distinguish the foreign reporting on Sweden and the Swedish debate on Sweden from the Swedish discussion of the image of Sweden abroad.\" While he acknowledged that the criticisms \"can be viewed as examples of legitimate international journalism or political debate in Sweden itself\", Marklund argued that they were often blown out of proportion in late 1983, both in foreign press coverage of Sweden and in the Swedish reception of that coverage. He noted that in the Swedish foreign ministry, believing that foreign criticism was amplifying or even distorting the significance of some issues in the political discourse, summoned 150 correspondents of the foreign press corps to receive what \"The New York Times\" described as \"a lecture on their supposedly less-than-objective articles about Sweden.\" He wrote that the strategy backfired, as the journalists felt curtailed.\n\nAs Sweden's international visibility have increased there have developed a market for Sweden-bashing.\n\nJapanese Sweden-bashing often focus on the care of the elderly.\n\nConservatives may engage in Sweden bashing as Sweden managed to have both economic efficiency and equality, something they feel is impossible.\n\nIn a February 2016 report to the Swedish Foreign Ministry, the Swedish Embassy in London indicated that the widely distributed \"right-wing UK tabloid newspaper\", the Daily Mail, said to be known for its \"vigorous anti-immigration stance\", was running a campaign against Sweden's refugee policy. The report said that Sweden was \"being used as a deterrent and an argument against allowing more refugees into the UK\" and was being characterised by the \"Daily Mail\" as \"naive and an example of the negative consequences of a liberal migration policy.\"\n\nIn mid-January, 2017, Czechoslovakia-born Swedish author Katerina Janouch made claims in an interview with a Czech television station which the Swedish government labelled as a \"bizarre declaration\". Janouch said that \"Swedes were learning to use guns to defend themselves as a result of increased immigration,\" that Swedish seniors do not have enough money for food, cancer patients were dying because of the long waiting lines caused by tens of thousands newly arrived refugees—77% of whom are men pretending to be minors—women are being raped, and 150,000 left Sweden for the United States and the UK. Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven spoke of \"increasing negative media coverage abroad\" at Davos and in interviews with the local Swedish media with reassurances that there was still \"great respect for the Swedish model'.\n\nAfter Donald Trump claimed at a 2017 rally that Sweden had serious crime and social problems related to immigrants, Olle Lönnaeus published an article in \"Sydsvenskan\" accusing Trump of spreading fake news, and said that \"[a]s Trump wants to close the US border to Muslim immigration, it is in his interest to spread the idea that Europe’s most refugee friendly country is on the road to perdition.\" In response, Jimmie Åkesson and Mattias Karlsson of the far-right, anti-immigrant Sweden Democrats party published an op-ed in \"The Wall Street Journal\" arguing that Trump had understated Sweden's problems, not exaggerated them, and that riots, attacks on emergency service personnel, gang violence, gun violence, and anti-Semitism were booming as a result of immigration. Reacting to the editorial, Sweden's justice and migration minister Morgan Johansson accused Åkesson and Karlsson of lying about the immigrant crime situation, saying \"They're painting a picture of a country characterized by violence, when it's the exact opposite.\"\n\nIn a 2002 opinion article in New York Times Magazine, progressive economist Paul Krugman used the term \"Sweden-bashing\" in arguing that American conservatives attacked Swedish welfare policies as part of an effort to spread a misguided view that redistribution of wealth to poorer citizens promotes economic inefficiency. Krugman argued that one influential conservative economic critique of Swedish policy was misguided because it focused on per-capita income, which Krugman argued was not a good measure of quality of life in Sweden, and because high wealth inequality in the United States skewed the available data.\n\nIn an editorial titled \"Political Strategy Behind Sweden-Bashing\" in the daily newspaper Sydsvenskan, Joakim Palmkvist and Olle Lonnaeus identified possible political motives that might explain some Israeli criticism of Swedish press freedoms, such as a desire by the critics to gain domestic support, to pressure Sweden as chairman of the European Union in advance of coming peace talks on the Palestinian conflict, or even to prompt a press crackdown by the Swedish government.\n\nIn 2013, Pertti Joenniemi, senior research fellow at the Danish Institute for International Studies (DIIS) in Copenhagen, wrote that\n\nSweden has been categorized as a 'Nordic banana republic' (an expression used by the leader of the DPP) and seen as a 'Prozac nation' (doped into tranquility). It has been positioned in the 'Balkans' and labelled 'East European' (an expression employed by a DPP member of the European Parliament). It has further been talked about as being 'Asian' as well as 'totalitarian'. At large the discourse turned, at least for a while, quite aggravated and Orientalist.\"\n\nAccording to government agency Swedish Institute, while much of the foreign media reporting on how Sweden was to handle so many migrants at one time was accurate, some people with a political agenda turned to Sweden-bashing. Sweden-bashing peaked again in 2016 as foreign media criticized Sweden's open immigration policies as swelling numbers of displaced peoples, refugee, and asylum seekers—many of whom had Sweden as their destination—travelled to Sweden via other European countries.\n\nBy 2017 Sweden became the symbol of everything that many Republicans believe is wrong with Europe: feminism, environmentalism, and openness to refugees. Donald Trump has been criticized for engaging in the Sweden-bashing by the hard-core American right. The former ambassador Zvi Mazel performed some Sweden bashing in the Israeli press where he came with several absurd statements.\n\n"}
{"id": "52033631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52033631", "title": "The Lego Movie (franchise)", "text": "The Lego Movie (franchise)\n\nThe Lego Movie is a media franchise based on Lego construction toys. It began with the 2014 film of the same name, which was directed and written by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. The success of the film led it to receiving two licensed video games, a , two spin-off films and an animated series among other pieces of media. A and a third spin-off film are both scheduled for release in 2019.\n\nThe majority of the films have been a success commercially and critically.\n\nThe film was released theatrically on February 7, 2014, through Warner Bros. Pictures and Village Roadshow Pictures to near-unanimous acclaim; critics praised its visual style, humor, voice cast and heartwarming message. It earned more than $257 million in the U.S. and Canada and $210 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of over $469 million. The film won the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film, the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Animated Feature, and the Saturn Award for Best Animated Film. It was also nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film. The film also received an Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song for \"Everything Is Awesome\".\n\nIn October 2014, Warner Bros. scheduled the release of \"The Lego Batman Movie\", a spin-off starring Batman, for 2017, moving the release date for \"The Lego Movie 2\" (later titled as \"The Lego Movie Sequel\") to 2018. Will Arnett returned to voice Batman, with Chris McKay, who was earlier attached to the sequel, directing the film, the story written by Seth Grahame-Smith, and the film produced by Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. On April 20, 2015, Warner Bros. scheduled \"The Lego Batman Movie\" for a February 10, 2017 release. In July 2015, Arnett's \"Arrested Development\" co-star Michael Cera was cast to voice Robin. In August 2015, Zach Galifianakis entered final negotiations to voice the Joker. In October 2015, Rosario Dawson was cast to voice Barbara Gordon, the daughter of police commissioner James Gordon who later becomes the crime-fighting heroine Batgirl. The following month, Ralph Fiennes was cast as Alfred Pennyworth, Bruce Wayne's butler. Mariah Carey, although initial reports indicated she was playing Commissioner Gordon, was actually cast as Mayor McCaskill. The first trailer for the film was released on March 24, 2016, followed by a second on March 28 the same year. The film was released in the United States on February 10, 2017.\n\nBrothers Dan and Kevin Hageman, who wrote \"\" and co-wrote the story of \"The Lego Movie\", penned the film adaptation of \"Lego Ninjago\", which features a new take that diverges from the TV series. Charlie Bean, who produced Disney's \"\", directed the film, produced by \"The Lego Movie\" team of Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. The spin-off movie was scheduled to be released on September 23, 2016. On April 20, 2015, the film was delayed to September 22, 2017 as \"Storks\" took over the original release date of the movie. In June 2016, the cast was announced to include Jackie Chan, Dave Franco, Michael Peña, Abbi Jacobson, Kumail Nanjiani, Zach Woods and Fred Armisen respectively.\n\nBefore the critical acclaim and blockbuster success of \"The Lego Movie\", talks for a sequel were already in motion. On February 3, 2014, Jared Stern and Michelle Morgan were tasked to write a screenplay. On February 21, 2014, the studio scheduled the sequel for a May 26, 2017, release. On March 12, 2014, \"Deadline\" reported that the first film's animation co-director Chris McKay would direct the sequel with Phil Lord and Christopher Miller as producers. Warner Bros. did not invite co-producer of the first film, Village Roadshow Pictures, to return as a participant in the sequel, due to Warner Bros. having now more confidence in the film and trying to keep as much profit as possible for itself. On April 10, 2014, McKay expressed that he would like to introduce more women in the sequel than men. On July 28, 2014, it was reported that on the internet, Chris Pratt expressed interest in reprising his role as Emmet for the sequel. It was also reported that Will Arnett might return as Batman, but had not decided yet.\n\nIn October 2014, Warner Bros. scheduled \"The Lego Batman Movie\" for 2017, and \"The Lego Movie 2\" for 2018. By October 25, 2014, Lord and Miller had signed on to write \"The Lego Movie 2\". The writers have implied that the sequel will take place four years after the events of \"The Lego Movie\". In February 2015, Warner Bros. announced that the title of the sequel had been changed to \"The Lego Movie Sequel\", and that Rob Schrab, co-writer of \"Monster House\" replaced McKay as director since McKay went to direct \"The Lego Batman Movie\". According to an interview at the Santa Barbara Film Festival, the sequel will focus on Emmet and his sister, taking place in \"weird, dystopian version of Bricksburg.\" On April 20, 2015, Warner Bros. scheduled \"The Lego Movie Sequel\" for a May 18, 2018 release date. On June 17, 2016, the film's release was delayed to February 8, 2019. By July 2016, Raphael Bob-Waksberg had been hired to do rewrites of the script. By February 2017, Schrab had been replaced by Mike Mitchell, reportedly due to \"creative differences\". On September 6, 2017, it was announced that production of \"The Lego Movie Sequel\" would begin in Canada on October 2, 2017. It was also announced that Lord and Miller have returned to re-rewrite the script to tackle with gender issues on how a girl plays vs. how a boy plays.\n\nOn March 23, 2018, it was confirmed that Tiffany Haddish was cast in the film as a new lead character while returning actors would be Pratt as regular guy turned Master Builder Emmet Brickowski, Elizabeth Banks as Wyldstyle, Arnett as Batman, Channing Tatum as Superman and Jonah Hill as Green Lantern.\nOn May 21, 2018, Warner Bros. officially renamed the film \"The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part\" along with releasing the first teaser poster.\n\nIn March 2015, Warner Bros. announced that a third \"Lego Movie\" spin-off, titled \"The Billion Brick Race\", was in development. Jason Segel and Drew Pearce were signed on to co-direct and write the film. The film was originally scheduled to be released on May 24, 2019. On August 2, 2017, it was announced that Jorge R. Gutierrez had signed on as director, with Pearce stepping down. But on February 8, 2018, it was announced that Gutierrez had left the project. On July 16, 2018, the films plot was announced by Pearce who stated it would be a LEGO racing movie inspired from pre-existing racing films including \"The Cannonball Run\".\n\n\"The Lego Movie Videogame\" is the first video game in the franchise, and is loosely based on the 2014 film. The game was developed by TT Fusion, TT Games, and Feral Interactive (for macOS), and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. It features over 100 playable characters.\n\nBased on \"The Lego Batman Movie\", Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment released the endless-runner game coinciding with the release of the film. It was released for Android and iOS.\n\nBased on \"The Lego Ninjago Movie\", and developed by TT Fusion and TT Games, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment released the game coinciding with the release of the film.\n\nBased on \"The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part\", the next videogame in the series was announced on November 27, 2018 and will be released on February 26, 2019 for the PS4 and Xbox One and for the Nintendo Switch on March 26, 2019.\n\n\"Enter the Ninjago\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Movie\". The president of Hollywood sits down with Emmet and changes up the plot of \"The Lego Movie\" to prominently feature Ninjas for marketing purposes.\n\n\"The Master\" is a 2016 computer animated short film written and directed by Jon Saunders, co-written by Ross Evans, Carey Yost and Remington D. Donovan and produced by Ryan Halprin. The short film was released on September 23, 2016, with Warner Animation Group's \"Storks\", as well as early showings of \"The Lego Batman Movie\" in the United Kingdom. It stars Jackie Chan as Master Wu, Abbi Jacobson as The Chicken, and Justin Theroux as Narrator. The short follows Wu and an annoying chicken. This is the first Lego short film to be released in theaters, and is also the first theatrical short film from \"The Lego Movie\" franchise.\n\n\"Batmersive VR Experience\" is a virtual reality short film, released on the internet in April 2017. Batman takes the viewer on a tour of the Batcave and other places of Gotham City to show the ways of being his sidekick.\n\n\"Dark Hoser\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Batman Movie\". Batman attends a tryout to apply to be a member of the Justice League of America, but only finds out he might be Canadian.\n\n\"Batman is Just Not That Into You\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Batman Movie\". Harley Quinn hosts a talk show and helps The Joker break up with Batman.\n\n\"Cooking with Alfred\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Batman Movie\". Alfred hosts a Cooking show with Batman and Robin as his guest stars.\n\n\"Movie Sound Effects: How Do They Do That?\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Batman Movie\". Bane, The Riddler, Poison Ivy and Catwoman are brought into a Sound Booth to help record sound effects for \"The Lego Batman Movie\".\n\n\"Shark E. Shark in \"Which Way To The Ocean?\"\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Ninjago Movie\". The short follows a baby Shark who tries make its way back the Ocean after getting shot out of Garmadon's Shark cannon. The short is animated in the style of the artwork seen in Lego instruction booklets.\n\n\"Zane's Stand Up Promo\" is a short film included on the DVD release of \"The Lego Ninjago Movie\". The short itself is a humorous promo for a Stand-up comedy DVD starring Zane.\n\nOn August 1st, 2018, a short film marketed as a promotional tie-in and teaser to \"The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part\" unofficially titled \"Turkish Airlines: Safety Video with The LEGO Movie Characters\" was released. It is an Airline safety video featuring characters from \"The Lego Movie\" franchise and was devoloped as part of a partnership between Warner Bros. and Turkish Airlines. It is presented by Emmet and Lucy while featuring cameo appearances from multiple characters all across the different area's of the franchise.\n\nOn December 16, 2015, a promo video for a new 4D film at Legoland Florida based on \"The Lego Movie\" called The Lego Movie: 4D - A New Adventure was posted onto Lego's YouTube channel. The short subject premiered at Legoland Florida on January 29, 2016 before being rolled out to all other Legoland Parks and Legoland Discovery Centers later that year. It sees many of the original cast returning including Elizabeth Banks as Lucy \"Wyldstyle\", Nick Offerman as MetalBeard, Alison Brie as Princess Unikitty and Charlie Day as Benny while Emmet is voiced by A.J. Locascio (due to Chris Pratt being unavailable at the time). The film is titled The Lego Movie: 4D - A New Adventure, and introduces a new character called Risky Business (voiced by Patton Oswalt) who is Lord Business' older brother.\n\nOn May 10, 2017, Warner Bros. and Lego announced that Unikitty, a character from \"The Lego Movie\", would get a spin-off animated television series on Cartoon Network. For the show, she is voiced by Tara Strong. The premiere date was January 1, 2018 and the show's executive producers are Phil Lord, Christopher Miller, Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Jill Wilfert and Sam Register. Ed Skudder (creator of \"Dick Figures\" and co-creator of \"Dogsnack\") and Lynn Wang (co-creator of \"Dogsnack\") are signed as producers while Aaron Horvath serves as supervising producer. The series aired a Halloween special/sneak peek titled \"Spoooooky Game\" on October 27, 2017. The series aired a second sneak peek \"Sparkle Matter Matters\" on November 17, 2017 and a third and final sneak peek/Christmas special titled \"No Day Like Snow Day\" aired December 1, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "8492042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8492042", "title": "The Royal London Circus", "text": "The Royal London Circus\n\nThe Royal London Circus is a famous travelling circus show based in Danga Bay, Johor in Malaysia. The Royal London Circus has performed in the country since 1990. The circus is now officially under receivership and owes a lot of money to creditors. \n"}
{"id": "167183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167183", "title": "Thiotimoline", "text": "Thiotimoline\n\nThiotimoline is a fictitious chemical compound conceived by American biochemist and science fiction author Isaac Asimov. It was first described in a spoof scientific paper titled \"The Endochronic Properties of Resublimated Thiotimoline\" in 1948. The major peculiarity of the chemical is its \"endochronicity\": it starts dissolving before it makes contact with water.\n\nAsimov went on to write three additional short stories, each describing different properties or uses of thiotimoline.\n\nIn Asimov's writings the endochronicity of thiotimoline is explained by the fact that in the thiotimoline molecule, there is at least one carbon atom such that, while two of the carbon's four chemical bonds lie in normal space and time, one of the bonds projects into the future and another into the past. Thiotimoline is derived from the bark of the (fictitious) shrub \"Rosacea karlsbadensis rugo\", and the thiotimoline molecule includes at least fourteen hydroxy groups, two amino groups, and one sulfonic acid group, and possibly one nitro compound group as well. The nature of the hydrocarbon nucleus is unknown, although it seems in part to be an aromatic hydrocarbon.\n\nIn 1947 Asimov was engaged in doctoral research in chemistry and, as part of his experimental procedure, he needed to dissolve catechol in water. As he observed the crystals dissolve as soon as they hit the water's surface, it occurred to him that if catechol were any more soluble, then it would dissolve \"before\" it encountered the water.\n\nBy that time Asimov had been writing professionally for nine years and would soon write a doctoral dissertation. He feared that the experience of writing readable prose for publication might have impaired his ability to write the turgid prose typical of academic discourse, and decided to practice with a spoof article (including charts, graphs, tables, and citations of fake articles in nonexistent journals) describing experiments on a compound, thiotimoline, that was so soluble that it dissolved in water up to 1.12 seconds before the water was added.\n\nAsimov wrote the article on 8 June 1947, but was uncertain as to whether the resulting work of fiction was publishable. John W. Campbell, the editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\" accepted it for publication on 10 June, agreeing to Asimov's request that it appear under a pseudonym in deference to Asimov's concern that he might alienate potential doctoral examiners at Columbia University if he were revealed as the author.\n\nSome months later Asimov was alarmed to see the piece appear in the March 1948 issue of \"Astounding\" under his own name, and copies of the issue circulated at the Columbia chemistry department. Asimov believed that Campbell had done so out of greater wisdom. His examiners told him that they accepted his dissertation by asking a final question about thiotimoline, resulting in him having to be led from the room for laughing hysterically with relief. The article made Asimov famous for the first time outside science fiction, as chemists shared copies of the article. He heard that many children went to the New York Public Library trying to find the nonexistent journals.\n\nIn 1952, Asimov wrote a second spoof scientific paper on thiotimoline called \"The Micropsychiatric Applications of Thiotimoline\". Like the first, it included charts, graphs, tables, and citations of fake articles from fake journals (along with one real citation: Asimov's own earlier spoof article from \"Astounding\", which was listed tongue-in-cheek as the \"Journal of Astounding Science Fiction\"). This second article described the use of thiotimoline to establish a quantitative classification of \"certain mental disorders\". It also expounds a putative rationale for thiotimoline's behaviour: namely that the chemical bonds in the compound's structural formula are so starved of space that some are forced into the time dimension. According to the second article, thiotimoline's time of solubility varies depending on the determination of the person adding the water. It also claims that one effect is that when people with multiple personalities add the water, some parts of the thiotimoline dissolve before others, due to some of the individual's personalities being more determined than others. \"The Micropsychiatric Applications of Thiotimoline\" appeared in the December 1953 issue of \"Astounding\".\n\nThe first two thiotimoline \"articles\" appeared together in Asimov's first collection of science essays, \"Only a Trillion\" (1957), under the joint title \"The Marvellous Properties of Thiotimoline\". Asimov also included the original article in his 1972 collection \"The Early Asimov\". The first article also appeared in \"Fifty Years of the Best Science Fiction from Analog \" (Davis Publications, 1982).\n\nAsimov wrote a third thiotimoline article on 14 November 1959 called \"Thiotimoline and the Space Age\". Instead of a fake scientific paper, this third article took the form of an address by Asimov to the 12th annual meeting of the American Chronochemical Society, a nonexistent scientific society. In his address, Asimov \"describes\" his first experiments with thiotimoline in July 1947, and timing the compound's dissolution with the original endochronometer, \"the same instrument now at the Smithsonian\". Asimov laments the skepticism with which chronochemistry has been greeted in America, noting with sorrow that his address has only attracted fifteen attendees. He then contrasts the thriving state of chronochemistry in the Soviet Union, with the research town of Khrushchevsk, nicknamed \"Tiotimolingrad\", established in the Urals.\n\nAccording to Asimov, two Scottish researchers have developed a \"telechronic battery\", which uses a series of 77,000 interconnected endochronometers to allow a final sample of thiotimoline to dissolve up to a day before water is added to an initial sample. Asimov says there is \"strong, if indirect, evidence that the Soviet Union possesses even more sophisticated devices and is turning them out in commercial quantities\". He believes that the Soviets are using telechronic batteries to determine ahead of time whether satellite launches will be successful.\n\nFinally, Asimov describes attempts to create a \"Heisenberg failure\", to get a sample of thiotimoline to dissolve without later adding water to it. In every case where the thiotimoline dissolved, some accident occurred that caused some water to be added to it at the proper time. Several attempts to create a Heisenberg failure in the mid-1950s coincided with a series of hurricanes striking New England in such a manner as to suggest that nature would find a way to add water whatever man decided, if man were to be resolute in not adding water. Asimov speculated that Noah's flood may have been brought about by thiotimoline experiments among the ancient Sumerians. He then concludes with some speculation about thiotimoline's potential applications as a weapon of mass destruction by deliberately using it to artificially induce hurricanes.\n\n\"Thiotimoline and the Space Age\" appeared in the October 1960 issue of \"Astounding\", which was then in the final stages of changing its name to \"Analog\". The article was reprinted in full in \"Opus 100\" (1969) and \"\" (1989).\n\nAsimov's final piece on thiotimoline was a short story titled \"Thiotimoline to the Stars\", which he wrote for Harry Harrison's \"\" (1973). In it, Admiral Vernon, Commandant of the Astronautic Academy, gives a speech to the graduating \"Class of '22\". Vernon's speech explains that thiotimoline was first mentioned in 1948 by a semi-mythical scientist named Azimuth or Asymptote, but that serious study of the compound didn't begin until the 21st century scientist Almirante worked out the theory of hypersteric hindrance. Later scientists worked out ways to form endochronic molecules into polymers, allowing large structures such as spaceships to be built out of endochronic materials. One effect of endochronicity is that if one fails to add water to an object that has reacted to water, the object will travel into the future in search of water to interact with.\n\nAn individual with sufficient inborn talent, Vernon explains, can perfectly balance a starship's endochronicity with relativistic time dilation, so that a ship traveling at relativistic speeds can age at the same rate as the rest of the universe, allowing it to return to its starting point within months, rather than centuries, of its departure. Vernon emphasizes that starship pilots are expected to match endochronicity with relativity exactly: a sixty-second difference between the two is regarded as barely acceptable, and a 120-second difference is considered grounds for dismissal. Vernon also emphasizes that endochronic molecules are unstable, and must be renewed before each trip, so that an endochronic ship that finds itself lost might not have sufficient endochronicity to return to its proper time. A ship that finds itself in the future might be able to re-endochronize itself if the technology still exists; a ship that finds itself in the past will be marooned there.\n\nFinally, Vernon reveals that the auditorium where he is giving his speech is actually an endochronic starship, and that during his speech, they have all flown to the outskirts of the Solar System. The graduates felt no acceleration because canceling out time dilation also caused the canceling out of inertia. When Vernon concludes his speech, the graduates will be landing in the United Nations Port at Lincoln, Nebraska, where they will be spending the weekend.\n\nAfter they land, Vernon receives an awful shock and passes out when his pilot informs him that the ship is surrounded by Indians. Vernon wrongly assumed the pilot meant Red Indians, and thought that they had landed centuries in the past. But the pilot only meant that they had landed at the correct time but near Calcutta, India.\n\nAsimov included \"Thiotimoline to the Stars\" in his 1975 collection \"Buy Jupiter and Other Stories\".\n\nIn Glen Bever's story \"And Silently Vanish Away\" a chemist with the unique ability to use psychokinetic catalysis to speed up difficult reactions is shocked by a lab explosion and the mixture he was working on gets changed. Under analysis the structure never appears to be the same twice and when the substance is injected into lab rats they start to silently and suddenly vanish. It is found that one part of the compound is a molecule which spreads out into four dimensions. The four-dimensional molecule is thiotimoline. The story appeared in the November 1971 issue of \"Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact\".\n\nTopi H. Barr's story \"Antithiotimoline\" deals with a chemist who accidentally creates a thiotimoline-like compound which extrudes only into the past, enabling the scientist to create images of past events. The narrator complains that thiotimoline is extremely difficult to obtain, and suspects that the CIA or other agencies are controlling the supply for their own reasons. The story appeared in the December 1977 issue of \"Analog\".\n\nSpider Robinson's story \"Mirror mirror, off the wall\", published in \"Time Travelers Strictly Cash\" in 1981, also references thiotimoline.\n\nIn Robert Silverberg's 1989 story \"The Asenion Solution\", thiotimoline is used to send excess quantities of plutonium-186 to the end of time, where they will fall over the brink into anti-time and lead to the Big Bang. \"The Asenion Solution\" appeared in the Asimov festschrift \"Foundation's Friends\".\n\nThe November/December 2001 and March/April 2002 issues of the IEEE Design & Test of Computers included spoof articles on the use of thiotimoline for debugging computers.\n\nIn the game We Happy Few, a mysterious liquid called \"motilene\" acts as the primary source of electrical power in the setting, and is pumped throughout the city in pipes in lieu of a traditional electrical grid, or alternatively placed into special jars to act as portable batteries. A research note can be found in one location which makes reference to \"thiomotilene crystals\" and their \"endochronic properties\", which in turn strongly suggests motilene's name be derived from thiotimoline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31544757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31544757", "title": "Tiniguan languages", "text": "Tiniguan languages\n\nThe Tiniwan languages are two extinct and one nearly extinct language of Colombia that form a small family,\n\nNothing is known about Majigua (Campbell & Grondona 2012).\n\nThough data on Pamigua is extremely limited, the relationship seems to be fairly close: Tinigua \"manaxaí\" 'walk!', Pamigua \"menáxa\" 'let's go!'.\n"}
{"id": "27144883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27144883", "title": "Tobacco and art", "text": "Tobacco and art\n\nDepictions of tobacco smoking in art date back at least to the pre-Columbian Maya civilization, where smoking had religious significance. The motif occurred frequently in painting of the 17th-century Dutch Golden Age, in which people of lower social class were often shown smoking pipes. In European art of the 18th and 19th centuries, the social location of people – largely men – shown as smoking tended to vary, but the stigma attached to women who adopted the habit was reflected in some artworks. Art of the 20th century often used the cigar as a status symbol, and parodied images from tobacco advertising, especially of women. Developing health concerns around tobacco smoking also influenced its artistic representation. Recently tobacco has impacted on art in a quite different way, with the conversion of many cigarette vending machines into Art-o-mat outlets, selling miniature artworks the shape and size of a cigarette packet.\n\nMayas were perhaps the first people to represent tobacco smoking in art. Mayas smoked heavily, and they believed that their gods did too. Religious rituals often involved tobacco: offerings were given to certain gods and tobacco smoke warded off evil deities. Many tribes viewed tobacco as a supernatural, magical substance (perhaps because of its strong physiological and sometimes hallucinogenic effects). Because of tobacco's significance, it is not surprising that Mayas produced artistic representations of smoking. The artwork mostly portrays religious rituals and myths involving gods or lords because ordinary people and actions were considered too unimportant and unworthy for time consuming art pieces.\n\nNumerous depictions of smoking can be found from the Classic epoch (3rd through 8th centuries). Though what substance deities and people are smoking cannot be said for certain, scholars generally conclude that the smoked substance is tobacco after studying archaeological materials. The representations are occasionally confusing as the Mayas portrayed smoke and cigars in varied ways. Smoke can be illustrated with black dots, black and red dots (with red indicating sparks), converging scrolls, or converging coils. Converging scrolls also sometimes represent foliage, speech, fire, smells, and other things. Cigars are usually funnel-shaped (or torch-shaped) and vary greatly in size. Cigarettes (small, slender cigars in this case) resemble modern cigarettes (narrow, long rectangles) or elongated ovals.\n\nMayas created codices chronicling their history and culture, and they constructed pages from \"copo\" - plant fiber on bark or deerskin with lime. Though missionaries destroyed many codices, one of the remaining codices (the Codex Madrid ) contains depictions of smoking. Gods smoke cigars on pages 79b, 86b, 87, and 88. The Codex Madrid also contains glyphs thought to mean “smoking.” \n\nThe Sanctuary of the Temple of the Cross at Palenque (a Maya city in current Mexico) houses a monument called “El Fumador” (Spanish for “The Smoker”). The stone door panel features an elderly deity blowing smoke from a large cigar. Because of the cigar's funnel shape (which compares to cigars currently used by rural South American tribes) and the outward flaring smoke, scholars believe the monument depicts a religious ritual similar to those performed by other Native American tribes. No other stone monuments depicting smoking are known, but there may have been others.\n\nThe only known Maya painting to depict smoking is found at Tulum (a Maya city on the Yucatán Peninsula in current Mexico). The Temple of the Diving God houses the fresco, and the painting features monsters (perhaps birds) smoking large cigars.\n\nMayans also portrayed smoking on ceramic objects including boxes, plates, vases, and bowls. The ceramics were carved or painted multiple colors (typically black, white, and red). Important ceramics featuring smoking include the Vase of the Dancing Lord, the Reynolds vase (at the Museum of the American Indian), Plate of the Smoking God, the Woman, and the Monkey (at the National Museum of Guatemala), Vase of the Smoking Monkey, and Bowl of the Eleven Deities, Five of Them Smoking.\n\nThe Vase of the Danse Macâbre depicts a smoking skeleton carrying a jar or pouch and another skeleton and two jaguars also holding pouches or jars. The carried objects are believed to hold tobacco or tobacco mixed with other substances. They display the sign of darkness, so tobacco may have been associated with rituals relating to death.\n\nThough the majority of depictions show gods and lords, some artifacts portray the everyday. For example, the Plate of the Smoking Husband depicts a man smoking a cigarette and his wife rolling dough inside their home.\n\nOther artifacts depicting smoking have also been found including a shell carving, which is now housed at the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n\nThe ordinary person in the 17th century Dutch Republic viewed tobacco as a novelty and associated smoking with social deviance. A divide existed between the medicinal use of tobacco, which was widely accepted, and recreational use, which was seen as low class and inappropriate for more respected citizens including church and government leaders. Johann Neander's \"Tabacologia\", written in 1622, demonstrates the prevalent belief that tobacco held curative and preventative properties for a wide range of diseases. However, smoking's prevalence among sailors, soldiers, and the rural poor along with its intoxicating effects led to an association with the lowliest people. Thus, smoking became a tool for artists to designate someone's rank in society, and painters including Adriaen Brouwer, the Ostade brothers, and David Teniers II employed smoking in their portrayals of the low classes. Smoking also became a comedic prop for painters especially in festival and burlesque paintings. Ivan Gaskell (Curator of Paintings, Sculpture, and Decorative Arts in the Harvard Art Museums) argues that \"If we trace the imagery of topsy-turvydom in Dutch art we find tobacco to be a key element in scenes of comic disorder\".\n\nJan Steen, perhaps the most famous comic painter during the 17th century, often included pipe smoking, which took on sexual connotations in his paintings of brothels and taverns. For example, a man packing tobacco into a pipe along with pipes leaning against chamberpots symbolized sexual flirtations and intercourse. These were often used for a comic effect, especially in illustrations of robbers stealing from intoxicated patrons of brothels and taverns.\n\nMoreover, women smoking in Steen's paintings subverted cultural norms and added an additional comic effect as men almost exclusively smoked during that time period. Short pipes, especially, implied the most debased women and the ugliest prostitutes. Moreover, pipes, especially a pair of crossed pipes, symbolized rhetoricians—guilds of actors and poets that held festivals emphasizing pleasure. Several of Steen's paintings were created to illustrate proverbs including: \"as the old sing, so the young pipe (soo de ouden songen, soo pijpen de jongen)\" —meaning the youth will pick up poor habits like smoking by imitating adults. Finally, Steen often included negative implications of smoking even when he painted smoking for a comic effect by depicting smokers next to a beggar’s crutches or whipping branches to reiterate to the viewer that smoking will lead to “punishment, poverty, and beggary\".\n\nBecause of economic interests in importing tobacco from the New World to Europe and even starting domestic tobacco farming, Amsterdam merchants worked to reduce smoking stigmatization. By the late 17th century, smoking long-stemmed and polished pipes became acceptable for more respectable males while the lower classes smoked from cruder and shorter pipes. Snuff also gained popularity, and depictions of smoking and tobacco in paintings and drawings became more representative of the mundane and everyday than comically absurd situations and social outcasts.\n\nFollowing the Golden Age, tobacco usage in artwork lost prominence. The decline of smoking representations is most likely due to the influence of Rococo age elegance, which made snuff the preferred choice. Though snuff usage increased, snuff portrayals never became as common as those of cigars, cigarettes, and pipes in European paintings. Against norms of the time period, French artist Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin, who was inspired by Golden Age artwork, occasionally included pipes in his pieces. One such painting is a still life entitled \"Smoking Kit with Drinking Pot.\" The pipe in this piece lacks symbolic meaning.\n\nIn the late 18th century and early 19th century, smoking took on new and varied symbolic meanings. During this time period, men were the primary smokers, and smoking was not an acceptable habit for women who were expected to be ideal mothers or mistresses. In the Romantic period, people believed smoking held a close association with intellectualism. Édouard Manet's \"Stéphane Mallarmé\" exemplifies art from this time. The painting shows an upper class man with a lit cigar in his hand and that same hand resting on top of an open book. His eyes are look into the distance seeming to be deep in thought. Benno Tempel (curator of the Kunsthal, Rotterdam) argues that smoking in this painting symbolizes a modern lifestyle even though smoking had been around for centuries.\n\nThe impressionists painted scenes of everyday life that included cigars, cigarettes, or pipes, but they did not put symbolic importance in them. The post-impressionists returned symbolic meaning to smoking instruments. One notable painting was done by Vincent van Gogh called \"Skull with a Burning Cigarette\". Although this painting seems to be an anti-smoking warning, it was actually representative of the black humor and practical jokes popular during that time. Edvard Munch launched this trend with his painting \"Self-Portrait\". It shows the artist with a cigarette against a dark background and an eerie look across his face. Munch used smoke to symbolize psychological problems.\n\nBy the 20th century, cigarettes, cigars, and pipes all had their own specific meanings and connotations that developed across history. By playing off these meanings, artists conveyed a fuller understanding of an artwork to the viewer. For example, the cigar came to represent a social status symbol, and artists included cigars in paintings to show emphasize social classes and power differences. Heinrich Maria Davringhausen’s \"The Black Marketeer\" depicts a boss with a boxful of cigars and a lit one at the edge of his desk. This demonstrates the unequal social relationship between the employer and the employee. Pablo Picasso also used the pipe in his piece called \"The Poet\". This painting relies on the inseparable connection between literature and the pipe to provide the viewer with a better understanding of the painting.\n\nWith the rise of Pop Art, art pieces became more cynical. Pop art culture targeted clichés that evolved from the tobacco industry. Mel Ramos and Tom Wesselmann are two notable artists who poked fun at the industry. Following the stigmatization of tobacco in America, pop art has shed a negative light on smoking. Claes Oldenburg’s sculpture \"Giant Fagends\" depicts how cigarette addiction exemplifies the American's wasteful consumerism. Duane Hanson’s \"Supermarket Shopper\" shows a miserable middle-aged woman to represent how present day Americans view smokers: ruled by the addiction and lack will-power.\n\nVarious forms of modern art have also included cigarettes. The Museum of Modern Art in New York City displayed Jac Leiner's \"Lung\" in March 2009. This piece features 1200 Marlboro packs neatly folded and strung together. Leiner illustrates her own personal addiction by presenting the sickening amount of cigarettes that she unconsciously consumed over three years. Another example called \"Why Can’t I Stop Smoking\" is on display at the St. Louis Art Museum. This piece portrays an incompletely painted man on a large canvas with the title of the painting written across the top. It demonstrates the addictive power of cigarettes because the artist cannot overcome the addiction to finish something that he presumably loves to do: paint.\n\nDuring the 17th century, Dutch paintings with women and pipes symbolized misfortune. Women in these paintings are rarely the ones in possession of the pipe, and the Dutch artists meant to send a moral message that foolish behaviors like smoking will lead people into hardships.\n\nArtwork in the 18th century included pipes to convey an exoticism and eroticism even though depictions of smoking went out of fashion in the Western World. An example is Jean-Étienne Liotard’s \"A French Woman in Turkish Costume in a Harmam Instructing her Servant\", which features a woman with a long pipe standing in a position of authority.\n\nIn the 19th century, artists, caricaturists, fine potters, and even novelists depicted women smoking. Though portrayals of women smokers became more common, they were shown in a negative light because smoking was still not acceptable for women. During this time, artwork that incorporated smoking was kept in rooms reserved only for men including smoking saloons, billiard rooms, and libraries. Impressionists employed pipes to distinguish males from females and emphasize their different social statuses. In Georges Seurat’s \"A Sunday Afternoon on La Grande Jatte\", the male in the white suit holds a cigar, and even in this snapshot of everyday life, there is an implicit hierarchy between him and the woman who is with him.\n\nProstitutes were the first women in this time period to be depicted with pipes, cigars, or cigarettes as seen in artwork from Vincent van Gogh and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. The women used smoke and make-up (as seen from their very white faces) to attract male clients. Some artists wanted to change social norms and de-stigmatize smoking for women. Frances Benjamin Johnston was one notable woman who studied illustrating for many years in Paris and then discovered photography. Her piece titled \"Self- Portrait\" depicts her holding a cigarette in one hand and a beer stein in the other. She is not dressed provocatively like most females who were associated with alcohol and cigarettes during this time. Instead, she realistically captures aspects of her life and complicates the society's understanding of middle class women. Jane Atché commercially published color lithographs of women smokers without any sexual connotations. Her prints offered sophisticated woman who enjoyed cigarettes.\nResulting from new representations of women smokers from artists like Frances Benjamin Johnston and Jane Atché, smoking became more socially acceptable for women. Eventually, smoking grew into a phenomenon for women. Tobacco products took on varied meanings in the 20th century. During the Roaring Twenties, women smoked cigarettes to appear chic and sophisticated. Yet, paintings with female prostitutes holding with cigars took on a negative meaning because women from low classes were not meant to have objects connected with the upper class. These pieces showed women as seductresses who tricked men into giving them wealth and power.\n\nSmoking began losing its attractiveness as the 20th century progressed, and art followed this trend. Artists mocked the cigarette industry for using highly sexualized images of women in advertising. Mel Ramos created artwork depicting naked women on cigars. Tom Wesselmann exploited the clichés of sex and cigarettes by painting an exposed breast behind an ashtray. Present day artists acknowledge smoking as a health risk, but some want to fight modern, taboo perceptions of tobacco instead of demonizing smoking. Sarah Lucas’s photo titled \"Fighting Fire with Fire\" shows herself with a cigarette in the corner of her mouth. This one picture sums up the evolution of the relationship between woman, smoking, and art. According to Benno Tempel, this photo shows that “at times when society tries to create taboos, art can break through them”.\n\nArt-o-mat machines sell pocket-size art pieces for $5.00 throughout the world. The apparatuses are converted cigarette vending machines, which are now banned in the United States. Currently, 90 machines exist with one in Quebec, one in Vienna, and the rest throughout the United States. Private businesses, cultural centers, art museums, universities, and other locations possess Art-o-mats, and they receive $1.50 for each piece sold. Some renowned sites include New York City's Whitney Museum of American Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles.\n\nOver three hundred artists from ten different countries have created original artwork for the machines. $2.50 goes to the artist whenever someone buys their work. The pieces come in white containers the size of a cigarette pack (roughly two inches by three inches) and wrapped in cellophane. They range from miniature sculptures to jewelry to tiny paintings. Almost every media imaginable has been used including wood, glass, watercolors on canvas, clay, Styrofoam, magnets, stained-glass, and bronze. Contributing sculptor Jules Vital said, “This project gives artists the opportunity to get their work into major venues, and it's cheap for buyers.\".\n\nClark Whittington built the first machine for his 1997 art show at a café in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The original machine sold Whittington's black & white photographs for $1.00, and Cynthia Giles, the owner of the café, requested that the machine remain after the show ended. Shortly afterward, Whittington formed Artists in Cellophane (A.I.C.) with other artists from the Winston-Salem area to build more art vending machines and to create pieces for them.\n\nToday, A.I.C. sponsors the Art-o-mat machines with the goal of increasing art consumption by packaging art in an easily accessible manner. Whittington hopes collectors will form a habit of art buying and become interested in buying larger pieces from local artists. He collects the remaining $1.00 from each purchase to maintain the machines. A.I.C. seeks to unite art with consumerism and commerce and looks to expand to new locations and recruit new artists.\n"}
{"id": "3834447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3834447", "title": "Túath", "text": "Túath\n\nTúath (plural \"túatha\") is the Old Irish term for the basic political and jurisdictional unit of Gaelic Ireland. \"Túath\" can refer to both a geographical territory as well the people who lived in that territory. \n\nIn ancient Irish terms, a household was reckoned at about 30 people per dwelling. A \"trícha cét\" (\"thirty hundreds\"), was an area comprising 100 dwellings or, roughly, 3,000 people. A \"túath\" consisted of a number of allied \"trícha céta\", and therefore referred to no fewer than 6,000 people. Probably a more accurate number for a \"túath\" would be no fewer than 9,000 people.\n\nEach \"túath\" was a self contained unit, with its own executive, assembly, courts system and defence force. \"Túatha\" were grouped together into confederations for mutual defence. There was a hierarchy of \"túatha\" statuses, depending on geographical position and connection to the ruling dynasties of the region. The organization of \"túatha\" is covered to a great extent within the Brehon laws, Irish laws written down in the 7th century, also known as the \"Fénechas\".\n\nThe old Irish political system was altered during and after the Elizabethan conquest, being gradually replaced by a system of baronies and counties under the new colonial system. Due to a loss of knowledge, there has been some confusion regarding old territorial units in Ireland, mainly between \"trícha céta\" and \"túatha\", which in some cases seem to be overlapping units, and in others, different measurements altogether. The \"trícha céta\" were primarily for reckoning military units; specifically, the number of fighting forces a particular population could rally. Some scholars equate the \"túath\" with the modern parish, whereas others equate it with the barony. This partly depends on how the territory was first incorporated into the county system. in cases where surrender and regrant was the method, the match between the old \"túath\" and the modern barony is reasonably equivalent. Whereas in cases like Ulster, which involved large scale colonisation and confiscation of land, the shape of the original divisions is not always clear or recoverable. \n\n\"Túath\" in Old Irish means both \"the people\", \"country, territory\", and \"territory, petty kingdom, the political and jurisdictional unit of ancient Ireland\". The word possibly derives from Proto-Celtic *\"toutā\" (\"tribe, tribal homeland\"; cognate roots may be found in the Gaulish god name Toutatis), which is perhaps from Proto-Indo-European *\"tewtéh₂\" (\"tribesman, tribal citizen\"). In Modern Irish it is spelled \"tuath\", without the fada accent, and is usually used to refer to \"rural districts\" or \"the country\" (as in \"the countryside\"); however the historical meaning is still understood and employed, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56595126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56595126", "title": "Video gaming in Indonesia", "text": "Video gaming in Indonesia\n\nVideo gaming in Indonesia is a growing sector, holding the 16th largest market in the world and about half the Southeast Asian market in 2017. Over 40 million people in the country are active gamers, with mobile gaming being the dominant sector in terms of revenue. The development of video games in the country began with imported consoles and arcade centers, prior to developments of online gameplay in PC games and increasing prevalence of the internet cafés. Mobile games began gaining importance as smartphones were introduced.\n\nThe Indonesian video game industry contributed about USD 1.1 billion to the national economy, despite only earning a small fraction of the local gaming revenues. Video game piracy is also prevalent across the country, making up the majority of installed games.\nDevelopment of video games in Indonesia began in the mid-1980s through imported video game consoles such as the SNES, PlayStation and Xbox. Arcade centers also appeared, including major chains Timezone which started in Indonesia at 1995 and Amazone which was established in 2001. According to a designer from Namco Bandai, 1,000 of the 1,500 arcade machines distributed in Asia Pacific operated in Indonesia. \n\nLater on, by the late 1990s and early 2000s PC games such as \"StarCraft\" and \"Counter-Strike\" caught on alongside their online features. While most of the games were imported, there were several locally developed games such as \"Nusantara Online\" (a MMO which featured precolonial Indonesian history). There were also several localized games, such as \"Audition Online\" which was localized as \"AyoDance\" when it was launched for Indonesia in 2007. This contributed to a major boom in internet cafés (known locally as \"warnet\", a portmanteau of \"warung internet\"), which had 2,500 locations across the country in 2002 and 5,000 by 2007.\n\nDue to the size of the Indonesian market, several games were localized specifically for the nation's audience. Examples include South Korean online first-person shooter \"Special Force\" which featured levels in Jakarta with the Monumen Nasional as a background and \"Harvest Moon\". Matahari Studios, which closed down in 2010, is often credited as being the first local video game developer in the country, although it more often took outsourcing work from major studios instead of developing its own games.\n\nMore recently, growth in the number of smartphone users have fueled growth in mobile online games, aided by the lower development costs associated for local developers. This change also allowed extension of the playerbase beyond typical youth gamers to a more casual demographic, with the game platforms including Facebook in addition to the application stores of iOS and Android.\n\nAccording to gaming researcher Newzoo, in 2017 there were an estimated 43.7 million active gamers in Indonesia, spending a total of USD 879.7 million for an average annual spending of USD 20.13 per person. This made Indonesia the largest gaming market in Southeast Asia and 16th largest globally, just behind Taiwan and ahead of India. According to Euromonitor, the industry revenues had grown from IDR 1.812 trillion in 2011 to IDR 11.395 trillion by 2016, for a growth of 44.4% annually. Another research from Unity Technologies found that Indonesia's video game market was the fastest–growing in Southeast Asia. Of the 2016 sales, about 98% was through internet retailing in form of software. Sales of video game hardware, including consoles and accessories, amounted to just around IDR 200 billion annually between 2011–2016.\n\nApproximately 56% of PC game players in Indonesia are males, with the 21–35 age group making up the largest demographic. According to Euromonitor, Sony consoles are the most popular with a 60.6% market share followed by Microsoft and Nintendo. Mobile games make up the majority of the revenues, with a 52% revenue share in 2015.\n\nDespite declining in recent years due to the spread of better quality mobile internet, internet cafés are still prevalent in large cities and small towns alike with some providing higher–end computers for competitive gaming. Video Games Indonesia (VGI), founded in 2002, was the oldest gaming community in Indonesia prior to its shutdown in 2016.\n\nA 2013 study estimated the prevalence of video game addiction among Indonesian school students at over 10 percent, although its authors admitted that improvements to the study's methodology were required to draw a proper conclusion.\nMobile games are particularly popular in Indonesia, following growing internet penetration. Strategy mobile games such as \"Clash of Clans\" and \"\" were the most popular titles in 2014. There is also a significant competitive scene, with eSports tournaments for mobile games such as \"Vainglory\" being held in Jakarta.\n\nThe Creative Economy Agency (Indonesian: \"Badan Ekonomi Kreatif\" or Bekraf), formed in 2015, is the government body responsible for aiding in and managing the development of the gaming industry as part of its task to develop Indonesia's creative industries. It also holds an annual trade show known as Game Prime since 2016, which targets developers from Indonesia and the ASEAN. The Indonesian Game Association (Indonesian: \"Asosiasi Game Indonesia\"), formed in 2013, acts as the industry's trade association.\n\nThe video games industry in Indonesia comprised 1.77% of the national creative economy (IDR 15.08 trillion) in 2015 according to Statistics Indonesia, with only 20% of developers being part of an association. It sustained at least 2,200 jobs in 2017. However, it contributed only 1.8% to the domestic market according to Anton Soeharyo, chief executive of local developer TouchTen. Director-general of informatics application Semuel Abrijani Pangerapan from the Ministry of Communication and Informatics gave a different figure, at 10 percent market share in 2016. \n\nLocal game developers are targeted to hold 50 percent of the national market by 2020. In January 2016, chairman of the Indonesian Game Association Andy Suryanto estimated that there were around 1,000 active local game developers in the country. On the other hand, Unity Technologies gave a figure of about 400 developers producing over 1,000 games. Most of the new titles created are targeted towards the PC or the mobile market, with only a single game released for the PlayStation 4 in recent times and none for the other major consoles. Lyto, which publishes foreign MMOs such as \"Ragnarok Online\" and \"CrossFire\", was the largest local developer in terms of revenue according to Euromonitor.\n\nDue to various factors, most new Indonesian video game studios do not stay in business for longer than five years. There have been several local mobile game hits, including incremental game \"Tahu Bulat\" in 2017. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has budgeted USD 2.1 million in 2015 to prepare a roadmap and support the gaming industry.\nSome of the more notable games developed in Indonesia include:\n\nIndonesia has its own game rating system, the Indonesia Game Rating System which was launched by the Ministry of Communication and Informatics in 2016. It categorizes video games into the following classifications:\nVideo game piracy is common in Indonesia, with BSA estimating 84% of all software installed in Indonesia throughout 2013 being unlicensed. Many stores in Indonesia offer illegally downloaded video games burned into DVDs for significantly less than its normal retail price, with Wii games being sold for IDR 20,000 (USD 2) or less. Due to the nature of Indonesian copyright laws, video game companies are required to bring the lawsuits against the illegal merchants to court, the cost of which would often outweigh the benefits.\n\nWhen online-only consoles such as the PlayStation 3 was released in Indonesia, authorized dealers initially controlled the distribution. However, once piracy took up these distributors withdrew from the country, causing a scarcity of authentic video game copies and raising the prices–resulting in further increase in piracy.\n"}
{"id": "27197114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27197114", "title": "Warring States crystal glass", "text": "Warring States crystal glass\n\nThe Warring states crystal glass (戰國水晶杯 / 水晶杯) is an artifact found in a Warring States period mausoleum tomb, which dates just before 221 BCE Qin dynasty, China. The glass however, looks no different from a modern drinking glass.\n\nThe glass measures 15.4 cm tall. It has a round opening and is transparent. The glass is made from a natural high quality crystal. It looks no different from a modern drinking glass. The artifact is one of 64 that can never leave China soil.\n\nIn 1990 the glass was unearthed in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province. Specifically in Bansaan town (半山鎮), Shitang village (石塘村) in a Warring states period mausoleum. The item was found underground about one metre deep. To Zing-gin (杜正賢) insisted on the archaeological digging when other archaeologists have already labeled that area of the village a worthless wasteland. After two months of digging, along with other treasures, he found the glass. It became the biggest finding of the Warring states tombs.\n\n"}
{"id": "13461212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461212", "title": "Who Stole the Cookie from the Cookie Jar?", "text": "Who Stole the Cookie from the Cookie Jar?\n\n\"Who Stole the Cookie from the Cookie Jar?\" or the Cookie Jar Song is a sing-along game of children's music. The song is an infinite-loop motif, where each verse directly feeds into the next. The game begins with the children sitting or standing, arranged in an inward-facing circle. \n\nThe song usually begins with the group leader asking who stole a cookie from an imaginary (or sometimes real) cookie jar, followed by the name of one of the children in the circle. The child questions the \"accusation,\" answered by an affirmation from the \"accuser,\" followed by continued denial from the \"accused.\" The accuser asks who stole the cookie, followed by the accused's saying the name of another child in the circle. The call-and-answer is potentially infinitely recursive, limited only by the number of participants or the amount of time the participants wish to spend on it.\n\nSometimes, a clapping or snapping beat is used by the children in the circle. Sometimes, the other children in the group sing along with the \"accuser\" after the \"accused\" has been identified. Some variations on the theme include the use by teachers of the song as a lesson in keeping with a beat and improvisation. As with many children's songs, there can be many variations on the execution of the performance. \n\nThe song's lyrics are usually:\n\nThis is followed by the \"accused\" saying the name of someone else, as \"(\"name of a child in the circle\") stole the cookie from the cookie jar,\" and the subsequent back-and-forth lines are repeated. The song may be repeated ad infinitum or it may end - if it is being performed as part of a game, where members of the group are eliminated by failing to keep up with the prescribed beat or eliminated as a result of being chosen as one of the accused.\n\nThe song, and game, is featured as one of the sequences in \"Grandpa's Magical Toys\"; the only accusation that is missing is that of the Dutch Girl, and she reveals that she got all the toys and the last cookie. The song was also done on three episodes of Barney & Friends. A variation of the song has been used in Smart4life commercials in the US beginning in 2009. The song was also used in the \"Family Guy\" episode \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein.\" The song was used in The Simpsons episode \"Kamp Krustier\" where Chief Wiggum arrests two kids after they sing it in a group activity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24786700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786700", "title": "Wonton font", "text": "Wonton font\n\nA wonton font (also known as Chinese font, chopstick font or chop-suey font, type or lettering) is a font with a visual style expressing \"Asianness\" or \"Chineseness\".\n\nStyled to mimic the brush strokes used in Chinese characters, wonton fonts are often used to convey a sense of Orientalism.\n\nSome Asian-Americans find the use of these fonts offensive or racist, particularly when paired with caricatures which hark back to the Yellow Peril images of the late 19th century and 20th century. In 2002, the clothing retailer Abercrombie & Fitch experienced a public relations disaster when it produced a series of T-shirts with buck-toothed images and wonton font slogans. The Chicago Cubs were hit with backlash from the Asian community after a similarly offensive T-shirt was produced by an independent vendor in 2008. The questionable use of such fonts was recently the subject of an article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" by cultural commentator Jeff Yang.\n\n"}
{"id": "41278664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41278664", "title": "World domination", "text": "World domination\n\nWorld domination (also called global domination or world conquest) is a hypothetical power structure, either achieved or aspired to, in which a single political authority holds the power over all or virtually all the inhabitants of the planet Earth. Various individuals or regimes have tried to achieve this goal throughout history, without ever attaining it.\nThe theme has been often used in works of fiction, particularly in political fiction, as well as in conspiracy theories (which may posit that some person or group has already secretly achieved this goal), particularly those fearing the development of a \"New World Order\" involving a world government of a totalitarian nature.\n\nHistorically, world domination has been thought of in terms of a nation expanding its power to the point that all other nations are subservient to it. This may be achieved by establishing a hegemony, an indirect form of government and of imperial dominance in which the \"hegemon\" (leader state) rules geopolitically subordinate states by means of its implied power—by the threat of force, rather than by direct military force. However, domination can also be achieved by direct military force. In the 4th century BCE, Alexander the Great notably expressed a desire to conquer the world, and a legend persists that after he completed his military conquest of the known ancient world, he \"wept because he had no more worlds to conquer\", although he was unaware of China farther to the east and had no way to know about civilizations in the Americas. However, with the full size and scope of the world known, it has been said that \"world domination is an impossible goal\", and specifically that \"no single nation however big and powerful can dominate a world\" of well over a hundred interdependent nations and billions of people.\n\nAn opposite view was expressed by Hans Morgenthau. He stressed that the mechanical development of weapons, transportation, and communication makes \"the conquest of the world technically possible, and they make it technically possible to keep the world in that conquered state.\" Its lack was the reason why great ancient empires, though vast, failed to complete universal conquest of their world and perpetuate the conquest. Now, however, this is possible. Technology undoes both geographic and climatic barriers. \"Today no technological obstacle stands in the way of a world-wide empire,\" as \"modern technology makes it possible to extend the control of mind and action to every corner of the globe regardless of geography and season.\" Morgenthau continued on the technological progress:\n\nEarlier, impressed with the swift opening of World War II, Derwent Whittlesey wrote in 1942:\n\nYet before the entrance of the United States into this War and with Isolationism still intact, US strategist Hanson W. Baldwin projected:\n\nIn the early 17th century, Sir Walter Raleigh proposed that world domination could be achieved through control of the oceans, writing that \"whosoever commands the sea commands the trade; whosoever commands the trade of the world commands the riches of the world, and consequently the world itself\". In 1919, Halford John Mackinder offered another influential theory for a route to world domination, writing:\n\nSome proponents of ideologies (anarchism, communism, fascism, Nazism, and capitalism) actively pursue the goal of establishing a form of government consistent with their political beliefs, or assert that the world is moving \"naturally\" towards the adoption of a particular form of government (or self), authoritarian or anti-authoritarian. These proposals are not concerned with a particular nation achieving world domination, but with all nations conforming to a particular social or economic model. A goal of world domination can be to establish a world government, a single common political authority for all of humanity. The period of the Cold War, in particular, is considered to be a period of intense ideological polarization, given the existence of two rival blocs—the capitalist West and the communist East—that each expressed the hope of seeing the triumph of their ideology over that of the enemy. The ultimate end of such a triumph would be that one ideology or the other would become the sole governing ideology in the world.\n\nIn certain religions, some adherents may also seek the conversion (peaceful or forced) of as many people as possible to their own religion, without restrictions of national or ethnic origin. This type of spiritual domination is usually seen as distinct from the temporal dominion, although there have been instances of efforts begun as holy wars devolving into the pursuit of wealth, resources, and territory. Some Christian groups teach that a false religion, led by false prophets who achieve world domination by inducing nearly universal worship of a false deity, is a prerequisite to end times described in the Book of Revelation. As one author put it, \"[i]f world domination is to be obtained, the masses of little people must be brought on board with religion\".\n\nIn some instances, speakers have accused nations or ideological groups of seeking world domination, even where those entities have denied that this was their goal. For example, J. G. Ballard quoted Aldous Huxley as having said of the United States entering the First World War, \"I dread the inevitable acceleration of American world domination which will be the result of it all...Europe will no longer be Europe\". More recently, Geert Wilders argued in 2012 that \"Islam is an ideology aiming for world domination rather than a religion\", and in 2008 characterized the 2008 Israel–Gaza conflict as a proxy action by Islam against the West, contending that \"[t]he end of Israel would not mean the end of our problems with Islam, but only... the start of the final battle for world domination\".\n"}
