{"id": "38509307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38509307", "title": "10 Essential Public Health Services", "text": "10 Essential Public Health Services\n\nThe 10 Essential Public Health Services is a US government document which codifies the responsibilities of public health agencies and institutions in the United States.\n\nOrganized according to the \"three fundamental purposes of public health\" — assessment, policy development, and assurance — the essential services include the following:\n\n\n\n\nIn 1988, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) released an assessment of the U.S. public health system titled, \"The Future of Public Health\". The report described the network of county, state, and national public health agencies as being in \"disarray\" and prompted a national discussion about the state of public health in the country. Questioning the ability of existing public health systems to provide essential services, the report sought to establish a comprehensive framework delineating the \"three fundamental purposes of public health.\" These purposes included \"assessment, policy development, and assurance.\"\n\nThough health policy academicians identified with and understood the IOM framework, policy makers found its highly conceptual language difficult to apply. Therefore, as part of President Clinton’s 1994 healthcare reform efforts, a federal working-group was tasked with reviewing and supplementing the framework. Under the auspices of both the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Public Health Practice Program Office and the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, the group sought to\n\nThese efforts culminated in the publication of \"The Essential Services of Public Health\" in late 1994.\nPublic Health Units\n\nThe report was well received. Public health agencies and professional organizations began to align guidelines and employ self-assessment tools in support of the ten Essential Services. The CDC launched a number of research projects aimed at developing strategies for measuring how well public health agencies provided the services. Many of these studies were the first of their kind and ushered in an era of health agency monitoring and assessment.\n\nIn 2002, the CDC and several national public health associations launched the National Public Health Performance Standards Program (NPHPSP). With the goal of developing a consensus-based set of performance standards for state and local public health delivery systems, the NPHPSP adopted the Essential Public Health Services as \"the fundamental framework\" underpinning its assessment strategy. The NPHPSP consists of three instruments — The State Public Health System Assessment, The Local Public Health System Assessment, and The Local Public Health Governance Assessment — and covers the gamut of public health action as described by the Essential Public Health Services.\n\nIt is essential for public health organizations to monitor and evaluate the health status of populations in order to identify trends and to target health resources. Components of this service include: utilization of appropriate tools to interpret and disseminate data to audiences of interest; collaboration in integrating and managing public health; and accurate and periodic assessment of the community’s health status. Specifically, public health organizations can monitor and evaluate the health status of their populations by creating a disease reporting system, community health profiles, and health surveys. For example, the Los Angeles Department of Public Health completes a Los Angeles County Health Survey (LACHS) every two to four years to obtain population-based data. This information is used for public health assessment and planning and for evaluating changes in health over time in Los Angeles County.\n\nIn order to appropriately allocate public health resources, it is essential to diagnose and investigate health problems and hazards in the community. Components in this service include: population-based screening of diseases; access to public health laboratories capable of completing rapid screening and high volume testing; and epidemiologic investigations of disease outbreaks and patterns of disease. The Los Angeles County Health and Examination Survey (LA HANES) was piloted in 2011 and aims to establish a profile description of health outcomes of residents of Los Angeles County (e.g. adult obesity and cardiovascular disease is monitored via collection of physical measurements such as blood pressure and body mass index). These survey results will inform public education and chronic disease prevention efforts. Emergency preparedness is also an essential component of public health organizations. Teams must be available and prepared to combat natural disasters, severe weather, outbreaks, bioterrorism, mass casualties and chemical emergencies.\n\nOnce public health priorities have been established through monitoring and investigation of health problems in the community, educational activities that promote improved health should be disseminated. Components in this service include: both the availability of health information and educational resources and the presence of health education and health promotion programs. This can be achieved through media advocacy and social marketing. An example of this is the Eat Less, Weigh Less campaign executed by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health that aims to increase awareness about appropriate portion sizes using advertisements on buses, billboards and social media. It is also essential to establish health education and health promotion program partnerships with organizations in the community, such as schools, churches and employment facilities.\n\nPublic health organizations on the local, state and national level can mobilize community partnerships to identify and solve health problems. Components of this service include: building coalitions to utilize the full range of available resources; convening and facilitating partnerships that will undertake defined health improvement projects; and provide assistance to partners and communities to solve health problems. Of particular importance is identification of potential stakeholders who will contribute to or benefit from public health activities. First 5 LA is a community partner who supports targeted programs that address the needs of Los Angeles County children ages zero to five and their families. They work closely with the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health to improve the physical and emotional health of this population. It is important to note that many of these stakeholders may not be considered to be health-related at first glance. For example, organizations involved in urban planning may be influential in improving the health of its residents. This could include increasing the walkability of a community or the number of parks or bike trails in a neighborhood.\n\nPolicies can be effective in modifying human behavior and reducing negative health outcomes. Components in this service include: development of policy to guide the practice of public health; alignment of resources and strategies for community health efforts; and systematic health planning strategies to guide community health improvement. In response to increasing rates of obesity and cardiovascular disease, the New York City Board of Health passed a ban on the sale of sodas and other sugary drinks larger than 16 ounces at restaurants, street carts and movie theaters. In addition to policies that can support health efforts, laws can reduce negative health outcomes. For example, dram shop liability is a law that holds the owner or server at a bar or restaurant where a patron consumed their last alcoholic beverage responsible for injuries or deaths caused as a result of alcohol-related incidents. A systematic review completed by the Task Force on Community Preventive Services, found strong evidence of the effectiveness of this law in reducing alcohol-related harms.\n\nIt is important that individuals and organizations comply with existing laws and regulations in order to ensure the overall health and safety of the general public. Components of this service include: reviewing, evaluating, and revising laws and regulations put in place to protect the health and safety of the public; educating persons and organizations about these laws and regulations to improve compliance and encourage enforcement of them; and enforcing actions that protect the health of the public (e.g., protection of drinking water; enforcement of clean air standards; enforcement of laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic and tobacco products to minors, of laws concerning the use of seat belts and child safety seats; mandating childhood immunizations; facilitating timely follow-ups in the event of hazards and outbreaks of exposure-related diseases; monitoring quality of health services; conducting the timely review of new drugs, biologics, and medical devices; ensuring food safety; and enforcing housing and sanitation codes).\n\nHaving access to care when it is needed is important in helping individuals prevent and avoid unfavorable health outcomes and medical costs. At the local level, components of this service include: identifying populations that face barriers to accessing health services and addressing their personal health needs, assuring the linkage of these populations to appropriate health services by coordinating provider services, and developing and implementing interventions that address the barriers they face in attempting to access care. At the state and governance levels, components of this service include: assessing access to and availability of state health services; partnering with public, private, and non-profit sectors to provide a coordinated system of health care; assuring access to this coordinated health care system by using outreach efforts that link individuals to the health services they need; developing and implementing a continuous improvement process to assure the equitable distribution of resources for those in greatest need of these services. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) employs this service idea as one of the action steps for achieving increased access to care and improved health outcomes for people living with HIV.\n\nHealth care workers and staff who are competent (i.e., skilled in the core principles of public health practice) are more likely to provide care and other services more effectively and efficiently compared to those who are not. Components of this service include: making sure that the workforce meets the health needs of the population, maintaining public health workforce standards by developing and implementing efficient licensure and credentialing processes and incorporating core public health competencies into personnel systems, and adopting continuous quality improvement methods and long-term learning opportunities for public health workforce members. In two 2002 reports, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommended instituting a certification examination as a way of ensuring minimum competence in public health. Web-based training strategies may be useful in providing the long-term learning opportunities that many current and upcoming public health workers need in order to serve as well-informed advocates of public health and safety.\n\nGiven scarce resources, it is important to keep track of whether or not programs and/or policies end up producing intended outcomes. Components of this service include: assessing the accessibility, quality and effectiveness of services and programs delivered; providing policymakers with the information they need in order to make well-informed decisions regarding the allocation of scarce resources; tracking efficiency, effectiveness, and quality of services analyzing data on health status and service utilization; and striving to improve the public health system’s capacity to well serve the population. Cost-effectiveness analysis has been proposed as one possible strategy for informing policymakers on how best to allocate health care resources.\n\nThrough research, the health and health care problems that individuals face can be better understood, and therefore be better and more appropriately addressed given the evidence provided by such research efforts. Components of this service include: fostering the development of a continuum of innovative solutions for health programming in terms of both practical field-based efforts as well as academic efforts, establishing a consortium of research institutions and other institutions of higher learning to encourage more collaborative and cross-cutting efforts, and ensuring the public health system’s capacity to perform timely epidemiological and health policy analyses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16896837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16896837", "title": "An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity", "text": "An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity\n\nAn Argument to Prove that the Abolishing of Christianity in England May, as Things Now Stand Today, be Attended with Some Inconveniences, and Perhaps not Produce Those Many Good Effects Proposed Thereby, commonly referred to as An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity, is a satirical essay by Jonathan Swift defending Christianity, and in particular, Anglicanism, against contemporary assaults by its various opponents, including freethinkers, deists, Antitrinitarians, atheists, Socinians, and other so-called \"Dissenters.\" The essay was written in 1712 and, as was common at the time, was distributed widely as a pamphlet. The essay is known for its sophisticated, multi-layered irony, and is regarded as a prime example of political satire.\n\nIn the essay, Swift answers several real and rhetorical arguments against Christianity. First, he responds to the argument that the abolition of Christianity would expand the liberty of conscience by arguing that if great wits could not denounce the Church, they might instead turn to the denunciation of the government, causing political unrest. Swift then addresses the argument that the Church, then supported by government funds, was a drain on resources that might be better spent elsewhere. Swift responds that if the funds used to support the clergy were used instead to fund freethinking young gentlemen, the money would, in short time, be squandered away on vices, and divided by disagreeable marriages. Next, Swift counters the argument that the abolition of Christianity would open up another day of the week (the Sabbath) to commercial activities for the benefit of the nation by arguing that the Sabbath provides benefits by allowing lawyers time to write their briefs, merchants to tally their books, and others to exercise, go to coffeehouses, and otherwise enjoy themselves, ironically implying that the argument is specious because the Sabbath was not kept as intended in any case. Swift then counters the argument that abolishing Christianity would remove arbitrary sectarian distinctions between Whig and Tory, High Church and Low Church, etc. that arguably damaged civil discourse and politics, by arguing that Christianity merely stands in as a convenient and arbitrary source of such distinctions and that abolishing it would only allow other equally arbitrary distinctions, essentially arguing that the problem is merely semantic and that such distinctions are a part of human nature.\n\nThe irony becomes more explicit as Swift next addresses the argument that it is ridiculous to employ a class of people to wail on one day a week against behaviour that is the constant practice of all men alive on the other six by arguing that such vices, including wine and fine silks, were made all the more pleasurable by virtue of their being forbidden by the Christian mores of the era. In response to the facetious rhetorical argument that the abolition of Christianity would lead to the abolition of all religion, and with it such \"grievous prejudices of education\" as virtue, honour, conscience and justice, Swift argues that such concepts had already been banished from contemporary education, and that this argument was, therefore, moot. Answering the argument that the abolition of the gospel would benefit the vulgar, and that religion was put in force to keep the \"lower part of the world in awe by fear of invisible powers,\" Swift points out that the vast majority of people were already unbelievers who only employed religion to quiet \"peevish\" children and provide topics for amusing discussion. Swift addresses the argument that abolishing Christianity will contribute to the uniting of a people divided by various sects of by arguing that humanity has an inborn \"spirit of opposition\" such that if Christianity were not extant to provide a context for such natural oppositions among men, this natural tendency would instead be spent in contravention of the laws and disturbance of the public peace.\n\nFinally, Swift points out potential negative consequences to the abolition of Christianity. First, Swift points out that reformers do not appreciate the advantage to them of having such an easy target upon which to practice their criticism and wit with such little risk to their persons in response as the Church and clergy; and rhetorically asks what institution could adequately replace religion in this role. Next, Swift warns that the abolition of Christianity (specifically the Anglican church) could lead to a rise in Presbyterianism, or worse in his mind, Catholicism. Swift's ironic defence of Christianity becomes more earnest and apparent as he finally proposes that if Christianity were to be abolished, all religion should be so banned, so as to fully free men from all bounds on their thinking and behaviour, in order that they may be allowed to freely engage in such vices as prostitution and drunkenness. In conclusion, Swift proposes that if Christianity is to be abolished, it ought not be done until the conclusion of wars in which England was then involved, as many of the country's allies were devoutly Christian, or at least, in the case of Turkey, religious. In a final ironic flourish, Swift warns that if Christianity were abolished, the stock market would fall, costing Great Britain more than the country had ever spent for Christianity's preservation, and that there would be no reason to lose that much money merely for the sake of destroying the faith.\n\n"}
{"id": "34072305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34072305", "title": "Ancient City of Aleppo", "text": "Ancient City of Aleppo\n\nThe Ancient City of Aleppo is the historic city centre of Aleppo, Syria. Before the Syrian Civil War, many districts of the ancient city remained essentially unchanged since its construction during the 12th to the 16th century. Being subjected to constant invasions and political instability, the inhabitants of the city were forced to build cell-like quarters and districts that were socially and economically independent. Each district was characterized by the religious and ethnic characteristics of its inhabitants.\n\nThe Old City of Aleppo – composed of the ancient city within the walls and the old cell-like quarters outside the walls – has an approximate area of , housing more than 120,000 residents.\n\nCharacterized by its large mansions, narrow alleys, covered souqs and ancient caravanserais, the Ancient City of Aleppo became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1986.\n\nMany sections in the Al-Madina Souq and other medieval buildings in the ancient city were destroyed and ruined or burnt as a result of clashes between the Syrian Arab Army and the rebel forces of Jabhat al-Nusra, in what is called the Battle of Aleppo, launched by the opposition JN armed groups on 25 September 2012. In February 2014, the opposition groups of the Islamic Front claimed responsibility for destroying a series of major historic buildings being used as fortified bases by the Syrian Army in the old city including the justice palace, the Carlton hotel and the old building of the city council.\n\n30% of the Ancient City of Aleppo has been destroyed in the fighting.\n\nLying on the left bank of Queiq River the ancient city was surrounded by a circle of eight hills surrounding a prominent central hill on which the castle (originally a temple dating to the 2nd millennium BC) was erected in the shape of an acropolis. The radius of the circle is about . The hills are Tell as-Sawda, Tell ʕāysha, Tell as-Sett, Tell al-Yāsmīn (Al-ʕaqaba), Tell al-Ansāri (Yārūqiyya), ʕan at-Tall, al-Jallūm, Baḥsīta. With an approximate area of , the ancient city was enclosed within a historic wall of in circuit that was last rebuilt by the Mamlukes. The wall has since disappeared in its most parts. It had nine gates (5 of them are well preserved) and was surrounded by a broad deep ditch.\n\nThe newer \"Jdeydeh\" quarters of the old city were first built by the Christians during the early 15th century in the northern suburbs of the ancient city, after the Mongol withdrawal from Aleppo. Jdeydeh is one of the finest examples of a cell-like quarter in Aleppo. As a result of the economic development, many other quarters were established outside the walls of the ancient city during the 15th and 16th centuries.\n\nThroughout its history, Aleppo has been part of the following states:\n\nAleppo has scarcely been touched by archaeologists, since the modern city occupies its ancient site. \n\nAleppo appears in historical records as an important city much earlier than Damascus. The first record of Aleppo may from the third millennium BC if the identification of Aleppo as Armi, a city-state closely related to Ebla is correct. Armi has also been identified with the modern Tell Bazi. Giovanni Pettinato describes Armi as Ebla's alter ego. Naram-Sin of Akkad (or his grandfather Sargon) destroyed both Ebla and Arman in the 23rd century BC.\n\nIn the Old Babylonian period, Aleppo's name appears as Ḥalab (Ḥalba) for the first time. Aleppo was the capital of the important Amorite dynasty of Yamḥad. The kingdom of Yamḥad (ca. 1800-1600 BC), alternatively known as the 'land of Ḥalab,' was the most powerful in the Near East at the time.\n\nYamḥad was destroyed by the Hittites under Mursilis I in the 16th century BC. However, Aleppo soon resumed its leading role in Syria when the Hittite power in the region waned due to internal strife.\n\nTaking advantage of the power vacuum in the region, Parshatatar, king of the Hurrian kingdom of Mitanni, conquered Aleppo in the 15th century BC. Subsequently, Aleppo found itself on the frontline in the struggle between the Mitanni and the Hittites and Egypt.\n\nThe Hittite Suppiluliumas I permanently defeated Mitanni and conquered Aleppo in the 14th century BC. Aleppo had cultic importance to the Hittites for being the center of worship of the Storm-God.\n\nWhen the Hittite kingdom collapsed in the 12th century BC, Aleppo became part of the Syro-Hittite kingdom of Palistin, then the Aramaean Syro-Hittite kingdom of Bit Agusi (which had its capital at Arpad), it stayed part of that kingdom until conquered by the Assyrians In the 9th century BC, and became part of the Neo-Assyrian Empire until the late 7th century BC, before passing through the hands of the Neo-Babylonians and the Achamenid Persians.\n\nAlexander the Great took over the city in 333 BC. Seleucus Nicator established a Hellenic settlement in the site between 301-286 BC. He called it \"Beroea\" (Βέροια), after Beroea in Macedon.\n\nNorthern Syria was the centre of gravity of the Hellenistic colonizing activity, and therefore of Hellenistic culture in the Seleucid Empire. As did other Hellenized cities of the Seleucid kingdom, Beroea probably enjoyed a measure of local autonomy, with a local civic assembly or \"boulē\" composed of free Hellenes.\n\nBeroea remained under Seleucid rule for nearly 300 years until the last holdings of the Seleucid dynasty were handed over to Pompey in 64 BC, at which time they became a Roman province. Rome's presence afforded relative stability in northern Syria for over three centuries. Although the province was administered by a legate from Rome, Rome did not impose its administrative organization on the Greek-speaking ruling class.\n\nBeroea is mentioned in 2 Macc. 13:3.\n\nThe Sassanid Persians invaded Syria briefely in the early 7th century. Soon after Aleppo fell to Arabs under Khalid ibn al-Walid in 637. In 944, it became the seat of an independent Emirate under the Hamdanid prince Sayf al-Daula, and enjoyed a period of great prosperity.\n\nOn 9 August 1138, a deadly earthquake ravaged the city and the surrounding area. Although estimates from this time are very unreliable, it is believed that 230,000 people died, making it the fifth deadliest earthquake in recorded history.\n\nAfter Tamerlane invaded Aleppo in 1400 and destroyed it, the Christians migrated out of the city walls and established their own cell in 1420, at the northwestern suburbs of the city, thus founding the quarters of Jdeydeh. The inhabitants of Jdeydeh were mainly brokers who facilitated trade between foreign traders and local merchants. Many other districts were built outside the historic walls during the 15th and 16th centuries.\n\nMention is made of the city, by one of the witches, in William Shakespeare's Macbeth, written between 1603 and 1607.\n\nAleppo is characterized by mixed architectural styles, having been ruled, among the other, by Romans, Byzantines, Seljuqs, Mamluks and Ottomans.\n\nVarious types of 13th and 14th centuries constructions, such as caravanserais, caeserias, Quranic schools, hammams and religious buildings are found in the old city. The quarters of Jdeydeh district are home to numerous 16th and 17th-century houses of the Aleppine bourgeoisie, featuring stone engravings.\n\nThe city's strategic trading position attracted settlers of all races and beliefs who wished to take advantage of the commercial roads that met in Aleppo from as far as China and Mesopotamia to the east, Europe to the west, and the Fertile Crescent and Egypt to the south. The largest covered souq-market in the world is in Aleppo, with an approximate length of .\n\n\"Al-Madina Souq\", as it is locally known, is an active trade centre for imported luxury goods, such as raw silk from Iran, spices and dyes from India, and coffee from Damascus. Souq al-Madina is also home to local products such as wool, agricultural products and soap. Most of the souqs date back to the 14th century and are named after various professions and crafts, hence the wool souq, the copper souq, and so on. Aside from trading, the souq accommodated the traders and their goods in \"khans\" (caravanserais) and scattered in the souq. Other types of small market-places were called \"caeserias\" (قيساريات). Caeserias are smaller than khans in their sizes and functioned as workshops for craftsmen. Most of the khans took their names after their location in the souq and function, and are characterized with their beautiful façades and entrances with fortified wooden doors.\n\nThe most significant khans within and along the covered area of Souq al-Madina are: \"Khan al-Qadi\" from 1450, \"Khan al-Saboun\" from the early 16th century, \"Khan al-Nahhaseen\" from 1539, \"Khan al-Shouneh\" from 1546, \"Khan al-Jumrok\" from 1574, \"Souq Khan al-Wazir\" from 1682, \"Souq al-Farrayin\", \"Souq al-Dira\"', \"Souq al-Hiraj\", \"Souq al-Attarine\", \"Souq az-Zirb\", \"Souq Marcopoli\", \"Souq as-Siyyagh\", \"The Venetians' Khan\",*\"Souq Khan al-Harir\" from the second half of the 16th century, \"Suweiqa\", etc.\n\nOther traditional souqs and khans in Jdeydeh quarter (outside the walled city):\n\nThe most significant historic buildings of the ancient city include:\n\nThe most significant historic buildings of Jdeydeh Christian quarter include:\n\n\n\nThe old part of the city is surrounded with thick walls, pierced by the nine historical gates (many of them are well-preserved) of the old town. These are, clockwise from the north-east of the citadel:\n\nAleppo was home to 177 hammams during the medieval period, until the Mongol invasion when many vital structures in the city were destroyed. Nowadays, roughly 18 hammams are operating in the old city.\n\nOld quarters around the citadel inside the walls of the ancient city:\n\nOld quarters outside the walls of the ancient city:\n\n\nAs an ancient trading centre, Aleppo's impressive \"souqs\", \"khans\", \"hammams\", \"madrasas\", mosques and churches are all in need of more care and preservation work. After World War II, the city was significantly redesigned; in 1954 French architect André Gutton had a number of wide new roads cut through the city to allow easier passage for modern traffic. Between 1954-1983 many buildings in the old city were demolished to allow for the construction of modern apartment blocks, particularly in the northwestern areas (Bab al-Faraj and Bab al-Jinan). As awareness for the need to preserve this unique cultural heritage increased, Gutton's master plan was finally abandoned in 1979 to be replaced with a new plan presented by the Swiss expert and urban designer Stefano Bianca, which adopted the idea of \"preserving the traditional architectural style of Ancient Aleppo\" paving the way for prominent local activists, among them Adli Qudsi, to convince UNESCO to declare the Ancient City of Aleppo as a World Heritage Site in 1986.\n\nSeveral international institutions joined efforts with local authorities and the Aleppo Archaeological Society, to rehabilitate the old city by accommodating contemporary life while preserving the old one. The governorate and the municipality were implementing serious programmes directed towards the enhancement of the ancient city and Jdeydeh quarter.\n\nThe German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and Aga Khan Foundation (within the frames of Aga Khan Historic Cities Programme) had a great contribution in the preservation process of the old city. The local representative of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture from 1999 until 2008 was the architect Adli Qudsi, who played a large role in the protection of the Old City form the destructive forces of urban expansion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2559736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559736", "title": "Animal studies", "text": "Animal studies\n\nAnimal studies is a recently recognized field in which animals are studied in a variety of cross-disciplinary ways. Scholars who engage in animal studies may be formally trained in a number of diverse fields, including geography, art history, anthropology, biology, film studies, geography, history, psychology, literary studies, museology, philosophy, communication, and sociology. They may engage with questions about literal animals, or about notions of \"animality\" or \"brutality,\" employing various theoretical perspectives, including feminism, Marxist theory, and queer theory. Using these perspectives, those who engage in animal studies seek to understand both human-animal relations now and in the past, and to understand animals as beings-in-themselves, separate from our knowledge of them. Because the field is still developing, scholars and others have some freedom to define their own criteria about what issues may structure the field.\n\nAs an interdisciplinary subject, animal studies exists at the intersection of a number of different fields of study. Different fields began to turn to animals as an important topic at different times and for various reasons, and these separate disciplinary histories shape how scholars approach animal studies.\n\nIn part, animal studies developed out of the animal liberation movement and was grounded in ethical questions about co-existence with other species: whether it is moral to eat animals, to do scientific research on animals for human benefit, and so on. Animal studies scholars who explore the field from an ethical perspective frequently cite Australian philosopher Peter Singer's 1975 work, \"Animal Liberation\", as a founding document in animal studies. Singer's work followed Jeremy Bentham's by trying to expand utilitarian questions about pleasure and pain beyond humans to other sentient creatures.\n\nTheorists interested in the role of animals in literature, culture, and Continental philosophy also consider the late work of Jacques Derrida a driving force behind the rise of interest in animal studies in the humanities. Derrida's final lecture series, \"The Animal That Therefore I Am\", examined how interactions with animal life affect human attempts to define humanity and the self through language. Taking up Derrida's deconstruction and extending it to other cultural territory, Cary Wolfe published \"Animal Rites\" in 2003 and critiqued earlier animal rights philosophers such as Peter Singer and Thomas Regan. Wolfe's study points out an insidious humanism at play in their philosophies and others. Recently also the Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben published a book on the question of the animal: \"The Open. Man and Animal\".\n\nResearchers in animal studies examine the questions and issues that arise when traditional modes of humanistic and scientific inquiry begin to take animals seriously as subjects of thought and activity. Students of animal studies may examine how humanity is defined in relation to animals, or how representations of animals create understandings (and misunderstandings) of other species. In order to do so, animal studies pays close attention to the ways that humans anthropomorphize animals, and asks how humans might avoid bias in observing other creatures. For instance, Donna Haraway's book, \"Primate Visions\", examines how dioramas created for the American Museum of Natural History showed family groupings that conformed to the traditional human nuclear family, which misrepresented the animals' observed behavior in the wild. Critical approaches in animal studies have also considered representations of non-human animals in popular culture, including species diversity in animated films.\n\nBy highlighting these issues, animal studies strives to re-examine traditional ethical, political, and epistemological categories in the context of a renewed attention to and respect for animal life. The assumption that focusing on animals might clarify human knowledge is neatly expressed in Claude Lévi-Strauss's famous dictum that animals are \"good to think.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14570613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14570613", "title": "Bijankhan Corpus", "text": "Bijankhan Corpus\n\nThe Bijankhan corpus (پیکرهٔ بی‌جن‌خان in Persian) is a tagged corpus that is suitable for natural language processing research on the Persian language. This collection is gathered from daily news and common texts. In this collection all documents are categorized into different subjects such as political, cultural, etc.; in about 4300 different subject categories. The corpus contains about 2.6 million manually tagged words with a tag set that contains 550 Persian part-of-speech tags.\n\nThe Bijankhan corpus was created by the Database Research Group at the University of Tehran. The corpus is non-free in that it is not free for commercial use, although these restrictions vary by country. The Bijankhan corpus is named after Mahmood Bijankhan, professor of linguistics at the University of Tehran due to his contributions in this area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "641055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641055", "title": "Bodymind", "text": "Bodymind\n\nBodymind is an approach to understand the relationship between the human body and mind in which they are seen as a single integrated unit. It attempts to address the mind–body problem and is in contrast to the traditions of mind–body dualism and dualism.\n\nIn the field of alternative medicine, bodymind implies that: \n\nThe term can be applied across a number of disciplines, including:\n\nThe term overlaps in significant ways, especially in its anti-dualist intention, with the philosophical term mindbody developed independently by philosopher William H. Poteat.\n\n"}
{"id": "28977695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28977695", "title": "Brisbane Open House", "text": "Brisbane Open House\n\nBrisbane Open House is a Doors Open Days event held in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia that showcases many of the city's buildings to the public. Among the buildings included are historical landmarks, galleries, office buildings, museums, places of worship and bridges. Well known buildings not usually open to the public are open for free public tours. The annual event is usually held on the first weekend in October.\n\nThe event is organised by the Queensland Government Architect, the Brisbane Development Association, and the National Trust of Queensland.\n\nBrisbane Open House is part of the \"Open House Worldwide\" annual cultural event.\n\nThe inaugural Brisbane Open House took place on 2 October 2010, and featured 20 buildings in the CBD and South Bank. More than 12,000 people attended. In 2011 the event expanded to 30 buildings and included Fortitude Valley. The 2012 event featured 51 buildings and attracted 33,000 visitors. The 2013 event expanded to 71 buildings presented over a two-day weekend. The 2014 event featured 89 buildings.\nThe 2016 event expanded to 100 buildings with large number of new buildings open to the general public for the first time:\n\nNew buildings open to the general public for the first time were:\n\n"}
{"id": "53479414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53479414", "title": "Byzantine glass", "text": "Byzantine glass\n\nByzantine glass objects highly resembled their earlier Roman counterparts during the fourth and early fifth centuries CE in both form and function. Over the course of the fifth century CE, Byzantine glass blowers, based mostly in the area of Syria and Palestine, developed a distinct Byzantine style. While glass vessels continued to serve as the primary vehicles for pouring and drinking liquid, glassware for lighting, currency and commodity weights, window panes, and glass tesserae for mosaics and enamels also surged in popularity. Following the Arab conquests of the seventh century CE, large quantities of glass were imported from the Levant, which continued to produce raw and manufactured glass. Scholars once believed that glassware was an expensive luxury good reserved for the upper strata of society, however, recent archaeological excavations have unearthed a considerable quantity of unadorned glassware intended for lower-class residents.\n\nChemical analyses of Byzantine glassware have demonstrated that Byzantine glass was composed of the same basic materials as Roman glass—combining sand-derived silica, a fluxing agent, and lime, as well as various coloring agents.\n\nRoman and Byzantine glass-making was divided into two phases. The first, called \"primary glass-making\" involved the conversion of sand and stabilizer into raw glass. Separate workshops would then re-heat the glass and shape it into an object, in a phase referred to as \"secondary glass-making\". Although there is considerable archaeological evidence establishing primary glass-making sites, secondary glass-making sites remain difficult to pinpoint.\n\nThe largest number of glass production sites from the Early Byzantine period have been unearthed in Syria and Palestine, as well as Egypt. Glass factories have also been discovered in Greece (Corinth, Thessoloniki) and Asia Minor. A chemical analysis of sixth-century Byzantine glass weights demonstrated that glass was also manufactured in Carthage and along the Danube River. Literary sources refer to glass-making sites in Constantinople, Emesa (Homs, Syria), and various Egyptian towns.\n\nThough some towns were home to glass-maker guilds, most Byzantine glass-makers were independent entrepreneurs. Glass-workers could be either male or female. An extant glass-making contract from Armenia mentions a woman glass manufacturer.\n\nGlass vessel shapes in the Byzantine period did not deviate greatly from those of the high Roman period. Beginning in the late fifth century, glassblowers in the near east produced increasingly larger vessels. They also introduced the folded, stemmed foot. In the sixth and seventh centuries Byzantine glass vessels typically features a delicate u-shaped mouth. A number of \"classical\" Roman glassware shapes were phased out by the fifth century including: bowls, flat- bottomed cups and beakers, and footed wine jugs featuring trefoil mouths. \n\nA major innovation of the Byzantine period was the invention of the glass lamp. Glass lamps are first attested in the first half of the fourth century CE in Palestine, where they began to replace the clay lamps in use at the time as they were much more efficient. By the middle of the fifth century their use was rapidly spreading westward. Initially these lamps were shaped just like drinking vessels, though the number of shapes expanded to seventeen over the course of the sixth and seventh centuries. \n\nFollowing the \"Triumph of Orthodoxy\" in 843 CE, enamel relief icons became the predominant form of iconography in Byzantium. The best-known example is the Michael the Archangel enamel from the treasury of St. Mark's Basilica in Venice.\n\nIn the middle Byzantine period, Byzantine glass-makers adopted silver-staining techniques from the Arab world. Silver-stained glass is created by applying a metallic compound, mixed with a \"carrier\" of clay or ochre to the surface of the glass object, then the glass is fired below the softening point of the glass. This process results in the breakdown of the smeared compound and its transition into the body of the glass object, creating a \"stained\" effect. Depending on the makeup of the compound and the \"carrier\" this process can lead to a wide array of colors. While the Arabs began creating silver-stained glass objects in the late eighth century in Egypt, the first Byzantine silver-stained object has been dated to the ninth century. The most common items featuring Byzantine silver-stain are simple glass bracelets, dating from the tenth to thirteenth centuries, and being discovered across the Byzantine world, from Greece to Anatolia. The most famous example of Byzantine silver-staining is the interior inscription of the beautiful San Marco bowl, dated to the \"Macedonian Renaissance\" of the tenth century. Several fragments of silver-stained window glass have been discovered. Although silver staining was practiced by the Byzantines, silver-stained works were not as ubiquitous in Byzantium as they were to become in late Medieval Europe. However, the widespread use of silver-staining in Byzantium could in part explain the transmission of silver-stain technique from the Arab world to Western Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2862908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2862908", "title": "Cacicazgo", "text": "Cacicazgo\n\nCacicazgo is a phonetic Spanish transliteration (or a derivative) of the Taíno word for the lands ruled by a \"cacique\". The Spanish colonial system recognized indigenous elites as nobles in Mexico and Peru, and other areas. Nobles could entail their estates, which were called \"cacicazgos\" on the model of Spanish entailed estates, or \"mayorazgos\". This term is found in contexts such as \"la princesa de Cofachiqui, señora de un cacigazgo indígena\" or, for example: \"In November of 1493, the island of Boriquén had approximately 20 cacigazgos.\" According to Spanish chronicles, the \"cacique\" was at the apex of the Taíno feudal structure. Bartolomé de las Casas refers to these \"cacigazgos\" as kingdoms.\n\nMany individual \"cacicazgos\" have been studied in colonial Mexico, showing that entailment was a successful means to preserve noble indigenous resources as the situation for commoners declined. There are cases where Spaniards married into \"cacique\" families, thereby giving them access to indgienous resources. In the Archivo General de la Nación, Mexico, a whole section of records, called \"Vínculos\", is devoted to individual noble entailments. A collection of them was published in 1961. Cacicazgos survived into the nineteenth century. Conflicts over inheritance were common, and the litigants' arguments found in these cases form the basis for understanding some of the dynamics of the institution. Over time, the concept of \"cacique\" shifted, with some women attaining the title of \"cacica\". \"Cacicazgo\" likewise underwent some transformation during the colonial era in Mexico. \"By law, a cacique was a single heir and possessor of a cacicazgo estate, which always included land and often a subject labor force to work it. The Indians themselves, however, saw things differently, and by late colonial times it was not unusual for all the sons and daughters of a cacique (or cacica) to adopt the title. How and why this change took place, its chronology, and what it meant for local community organization remain imperfectly understood...The late colonial setting was vastly different, and indigenous noble claims of the period must be understood in the context in which they arose.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11819371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11819371", "title": "Certificate in Legal Practice (Malaysia)", "text": "Certificate in Legal Practice (Malaysia)\n\nThe Certificate in Legal Practice (CLP) is a 9-month long post-graduate course and examination taken by foreign law graduates and graduates of Bachelor of Jurisprudence (Hons)/B.Juris (Hons) from University of Malaya and Bachelor of Legal Studies (Hons)/BLS (Hons) from Universiti Teknologi MARA, to become a qualified lawyer in Malaysia.\n\nThe examination is conducted by the Legal Profession Qualifying Board of Malaysia and is governed by the Legal Profession Act 1976. The Board allows degree holders from shortlisted universities in the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand to sit for the examination. The Board also allows graduates from a shortlisted universities to be exempted from the this examination.Multimedia University in Melaka is the 1st private university in Malaysia obtaining exemption of CLP exam for its law graduates.\n\nLike all law graduates, CLP graduates must proceed to read in chambers of a pupil master who has been in active practice in Malaysia for a total period of not less than 7 years. After completing nine (9) months of pupillage, the student may finally be called to the bar and become a qualified lawyer.\n\nThe Certificate in Legal Practice was originally designed in 1984 only as a temporary stop-gap measure to assist those Malaysians who were not able to sit for the English Bar Finals Examinations. It was then a solution to those who can't apply to be a Barrister but ended up as another recognised legal qualification to be an advocate and solicitor in Malaysia.\n\nExaminations are normally held around July each year. Every student is required to sit for five subject papers, namely, General Paper, Professional Practice, Evidence, Criminal Procedure, and Civil Procedure. The student must pass all papers to obtain the certificate. If a student fails one paper he or she may be given a conditional pass and be allowed to resit that subject two more times. However, if a student failed in two or more papers, he must sit for the whole examination again to obtain the certificate. Each student is allowed to sit for the examination four times.\n\nThe Legal Profession Qualifying Board only sets the examination and does not provide classes to prepare the candidate for the examination. Classes were initially conducted by the Faculty of Law, University of Malaya and later Faculty of Law, Universiti Teknologi MARA but the task was subsequently delegated to private colleges only. Three of the major institutions that offer tuition for the CLP in Kuala Lumpur are Brickfields Asia College , Advance Tertiary College (formerly Kemayan ATC), and HELP University. ATC also offers the course in its Penang Campus.\n\nThe examination is extremely rigorous in that it has a very low passing rate of between 10% to 20% each year. This is due to the extremely high standard imposed by the CLP Board to ensure that only the best candidates go on to qualify and practice as lawyers.\n\nThe CLP board has pointed out, among other things, in an article published in The Star on 24 September 2008 as well as in its CLP Subject Guide 2008 issued to candidates, that “The examination is not a test of memory function by the candidates. It is the mediocre candidates who resort to regurgitation of information memorized by them”, thereby leading to the low pass rates annually.\n\nThe Professional Practice paper, for example, covers of Land Law, Probate and Administration of Estates, Bankruptcy and Winding Up, Ethics of the Legal Profession, and Advocacy. Any person familiar with legal education would understand that Land Law is among the bulkiest subject.\n\nStudents were denied access to the many relevant Statutes (Acts of Parliaments) during the exams, such as the Bankruptcy Act 1967, Companies Act 1965, Winding Up Rules 1997, Probate and Administration Act 1959, Legal Profession Act 1976, Legal Profession (Practice & Etiquette) Rules 1978, Legal Profession (Publicity) Rules, and many more.\n\nIn 2007, the then CLP Director, Khalid Yusoff, was jailed three months for forgery and cheating in the July 2001 CLP examination “master list”. In May 2010, he was freed by the Court of Appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "26192122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26192122", "title": "Charles I Insulted by Cromwell's Soldiers", "text": "Charles I Insulted by Cromwell's Soldiers\n\nCharles I Insulted by Cromwell's Soldiers is an oil painting by the French artist Hippolyte Delaroche, depicting Charles I of England taunted by the victorious soldiers of Oliver Cromwell after the Second English Civil War, prior to his execution in 1649. Completed in 1836, it is thought to be one of Delaroche's greatest masterpieces. It was displayed as part of the Bridgewater Collection in London, although it was latterly thought to have been lost when, during The Blitz of 1941, a German bomb struck close to Bridgewater House, causing shrapnel damage to the canvas in the ensuing explosion. In 2009 it was rediscovered in Scotland in an unexpectedly good condition, having been rolled up and stored after the war, but recorded in the intervening years as badly damaged or destroyed. After a partial restoration it went on display in the National Gallery in London, in an exhibition re-appraising Delaroche's work. After the exhibition, it is to be fully restored.\n\n\"Charles I Insulted\" features Charles I, the King of England, who had by 1648 lost the Second English Civil War fought against Oliver Cromwell's New Model Army, after the Battle of Preston. By January 1649, he was being put on trial for treason, and on 30 January, he was beheaded.\n\nThe painting depicts Charles in the days before his execution, being bullied and taunted by Cromwell's defiant troops, one of whom is blowing pipe smoke in his face. The deposed king remains calm, holding a book which he appears to have been reading.\n\nDelaroche's \"Charles I Insulted\" was commissioned by Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere, who was known as Lord Francis Leveson-Gower until 1833 when, following the death of his father, he was created the first Earl of Ellesmere, inheriting Bridgewater House in London from his bachelor great uncle, Francis Egerton, 3rd Duke of Bridgewater. The family line of the Earls of Ellesmere became the Dukes of Sutherland when, in 1963, John Egerton, 5th Earl of Ellesmere, succeeded to the title of duke of Sutherland on the death of the 5th Duke of Sutherland with no male heir in the elder line. As of its rediscovery in 2009, the painting remained privately owned by the present Duke, Francis Egerton, 7th Duke of Sutherland. The 7th Duke was the 6th Duke's cousin and heir to the Dukedom, since the 6th Duke had no children himself.\n\n\"Charles I Insulted\" is a large piece, painted on a canvas measuring by ., also described as being nearly three metres square. It was completed in 1836. It was first displayed at the Paris Salon of 1837, and in 1838 at the British Institution in London. The painting was then hung for decades as part of the semi-public Bridgewater Collection in Bridgewater House in London.\n\nThe painting suffered serious damage during a Second World War German bombing raid on London. Unlike other collections, the Bridgewater artworks had not been stored underground before the war, due to the 5th Earl having been captured at Dunkirk in 1940. On 11 May 1941, during the last night and most deadly raid of what became known as The Blitz, one bomb landed on the street outside Bridgewater House, leaving a deep bomb crater. Hanging in the dining room at the time, the painting suffered extensive shrapnel damage. At least four paintings in the collection were totally destroyed in the raid, while others less damaged were eventually restored. \"Charles I Insulted\" was demounted, and rolled up, having been given a rudimentary repair using paper to hold together the largest tears. After the war, it was transported to Mertoun House in St. Boswells, Scottish Borders, the family's Scottish home, for storage.\n\nWhile stored safe and dry in Mertoun, over the next 68 years the existence of the painting was gradually forgotten about by its owners, and presumed by the art world to be lost as irreparably damaged in the raid. In subsequent catalogues of Delaroche's work, it had been listed as either 'badly damaged' or sometimes 'destroyed'.\n\nThe painting was rediscovered in the summer of 2009 by National Gallery curators, after they made enquiries about the painting as they prepared a Delaroche exhibition. The 2010 exhibition was to be the first major show on Delaroche to be held in Britain, aiming to re-assess the works of Delaroche, who fell out of fashion during the early 20th century, and featuring his most famous work from the National Gallery collection, \"The Execution of Lady Jane Grey\" (1833), which was also a rediscovered work: it had been thought lost when the Tate Gallery was flooded in 1928, and found rolled up in 1973.\n\nOn 7 June 2009 at Mertoun, it was unrolled for the first time since being moved to Scotland. To the surprise of those present, the painting was largely intact, having \"lost none of its intensity\". The explosion damage consisted of around 200 individual tears in the canvas, which still contained plaster fragments and dust from the blast.\n\nAfter moving the painting to London, it was restored sufficiently to be able to be displayed in the exhibition, albeit with the shrapnel scars still visible, and \"somewhat yellowed by a layer of discoloured varnish\". Because the canvas had been rolled up for nearly 70 years, it had to be weighed down flat for six weeks. The tears were then stitched together, and the canvas lined.\n\nThe painting's first ever public display since rediscovery was as part of the exhibition \"Painting History: Delaroche and Lady Jane Grey\", running from 24 February to 24 May 2010. It went on display on 23 February in a separate room in the museum's free admission area, with the main part of the exhibition held in the adjacent Sainsbury Wing of the gallery. The painting is to be fully restored after the London exhibition whereupon work would start to remove the discoloured varnish and retouch the damaged areas.\n\nAccording to the London National Gallery, it is \"one of the great paintings on themes of English history for which Delaroche had become renowned\", in which Delaroche was \"able to imply striking parallels between the poignant fate of Charles and the recent course of French history\". According to the gallery director Nicholas Penny, the rediscovery was \"huge\" and its redisplay would be an historic moment, describing it as \"an extraordinarily powerful work\", \"one of the great French paintings\" and by \"one of the greatest painters\" of the 19th century. According to Penny, Delaroche, a Frenchman, was a notable painter of Tudor and Stuart history, as a method of \"exploring the violence and vicissitudes of the French Revolution\" without actually portraying the events themselves, which were regarded as too recent to paint.\n\nAccording to the National Gallery's exhibition curator Christopher Riopelle, both \"Charles I Insulted\" and Delaroche's other painting, \"Marie-Antoinette Before the Tribunal\", painted fifteen years later in 1851, \"suggest episodes of the suffering of Christ\". Riopelle added that Delaroche's \"obsession with English royalist history\" was \"classic displacement of what you want to talk about but can't, because it's still so raw and recent\", particularly referring to the execution of Louis XVI of France in January 1793, and nine months later of his Queen Marie Antoinette.\n\nCharlotte Higgins of \"The Guardian\" described it as \"one of Delaroche's masterpieces\", which \"owes a debt\" to Anthony van Dyck's famous painting of Charles I. Higgins also said that it \"clearly references the popular artistic subject of the mocking of Christ by his guards\". According to Arifa Akbar of \"The Independent\", \"Delaroche's monumental painting featuring Charles I as a Christ-like figure\" is regarded as \"one of Delaroche's most powerful pieces\", commissioned at the \"height of his fame\".\n\nDavid Horspool of \"The Times\", reflecting on the fate of Delaroche's \"Execution of Lady Jane Grey\" which was relegated to a basement, in which it was later flood damaged, due to Delaroche's falling fame, said \"there seems no chance that [\"Charles I Insulted\"] will be rolled up and put away. Delaroche's days as the forgotten master seem to be over\", predicting the rediscovered piece would be perhaps \"the most exciting exhibit to go on display\" in the 2010 National Gallery exhibition.\n"}
{"id": "17132034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17132034", "title": "Computer-assisted legal research", "text": "Computer-assisted legal research\n\nComputer-assisted legal research (CALR) or computer-based legal research is a mode of legal research that uses databases of court opinions, statutes, court documents, and secondary material. Electronic databases make large bodies of case law easily available. Databases also have additional benefits, such as Boolean searches, evaluating case authority, organizing cases by topic, and providing links to cited material. Databases are available through paid subscription or for free.\n\nSubscription-based services include Westlaw, LexisNexis, JustCite, HeinOnline, Bloomberg Law, VLex and LexEur. As of 2015 the commercial market grossed $8 billion. Free services include OpenJurist, Google Scholar, AltLaw, Ravel Law, WIPO Lex, Law Delta and the databases of the Free Access to Law Movement.\n\nComputer-assisted legal research is undertaken by a variety of actors. It is taught as a topic on many law degrees and is used extensively by undergraduate and postgraduate law students in meeting the work requirements of their degree courses. Professors of Law rely on the digitisation of primary and secondary sources of law when conducting their research and writing the material that they submit for publication. Professional lawyers rely on computer-assisted legal research in order to properly understand the status of the law and so to act effectively in the best interest of their client. They may also consult the text of case judgements and statutes specifically, as well as wider academic comment, in order to form the basis of (or response to) an appeal.\n\nThe availability of legal information online differs by type, jurisdiction and subject matter. The types of information available include:\n\n\nPrior to the advent and popularisation of the World Wide Web, access to digital legal information was largely through the use of CD-ROMs, designed and sold by commercial organisations. Dial-up services were also available from the 1970s. As the use of the Internet spread in the early 1990s, companies such as LexisNexis and Westlaw incorporated Internet connectivity into their software packages. Browser-based legal information started to be published by Legal Information Institutes from 1992.\n\nThe first effort to provide free computer access to legal information was made by two academics, Peter Martin and Tom Bruce, in 1992. Today, the Legal Information Institute freely publishes such resources as the text of the United States Constitution, judgements of the United States Supreme Court, and the text of the United States Code.\n\nThe Australian Legal Information Institute (AusLII) was established soon after in 1995. Other legal information institutes, such as those of Great Britain and Ireland (BAILII), Canada (CII) and South Africa (SAfLI) soon followed. LIIs were partially formalised in 2002 following the signing of the Declaration of Free Access to the Law, which has been signed by 54 countries. At the time of writing, the World Legal Information Institute contains in excess of 1800 databases from 123 jurisdictions.\n\nMany governments also publish legal information online. For example, UK legislation and statutory instruments have been publicly available online since 2010. Depending on the jurisdiction in question, the decisions of higher appellate courts may also be published online, either by the Legal Information Institute or by the court service directly. Sources of European Union Law are published for free by EUR-Lex in 23 languages, including judgements of the European Courts. Similarly, judgements of the European Court of Human Rights are published on its website.\n"}
{"id": "2212982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212982", "title": "Corn Man", "text": "Corn Man\n\nCorn Man was a character invented by Al Gore's campaign during the 2000 Democratic Primaries to draw attention to the refusal of the opposing candidate, Bill Bradley, to take part in a series of debates on farm policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8741683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8741683", "title": "Doggerland", "text": "Doggerland\n\nDoggerland was an area of land, now submerged beneath the southern North Sea, that connected Great Britain to continental Europe. It was flooded by rising sea levels around 6,500–6,200 BC. Geological surveys have suggested that it stretched from Britain's east coast to the Netherlands and the western coasts of Germany and the peninsula of Jutland. It was probably a rich habitat with human habitation in the Mesolithic period, although rising sea levels gradually reduced it to low-lying islands before its final submergence, possibly following a tsunami caused by the Storegga Slide.\n\nThe archaeological potential of the area was first identified in the early 20th century, and interest intensified in 1931 when a fishing trawler operating east of the Wash dragged up a barbed antler point that was subsequently dated to a time when the area was tundra. Vessels have dragged up remains of mammoth, lion and other animals, as well as a few prehistoric tools and weapons.\n\nDoggerland was named in the 1990s, after the Dogger Bank, which in turn was named after the 17th century Dutch fishing boats called \"doggers\".\n\nUntil the middle Pleistocene, Britain was a peninsula of Europe, connected by the massive chalk Weald–Artois Anticline across the Straits of Dover. During the Anglian glaciation, approximately 450,000 years ago, an ice sheet filled much of the North Sea, with a large proglacial lake in the southern part fed by the Rhine, Scheldt and Thames river systems. The catastrophic overflow of this lake carved a channel through the anticline, leading to the formation of the Channel River, which carried the combined Scheldt and Thames to the Atlantic. This probably created the potential for Britain to become isolated from the continent during periods of high sea level, although some scientists argue that the final break did not occur until a second ice-dammed lake overflowed during the MIS8 or MIS6 glaciations, around 340,000 or 240,000 years ago.\n\nDuring the most recent glaciation of the Last Glacial Maximum, which ended around 18,000 years ago, the North Sea and much of the British Isles were covered with glacial ice and the sea level was about lower. The climate later became warmer and during the Late Glacial Maximum around 12,000 BC Britain, as well as much of the North Sea and English Channel, was an expanse of low-lying tundra.\n\nEvidence, including the contours of the present seabed, indicates that after the first main Ice Age, the watershed between the North Sea and English Channel extended east from East Anglia then south-east to the Hook of Holland, rather than across the Strait of Dover. The Seine, Thames, Meuse, Scheldt and Rhine rivers joined and flowed west along the English Channel as a wide slow river before eventually reaching the Atlantic Ocean. At about 10,000 BC the north-facing coastal area of Doggerland had a coastline of lagoons, saltmarshes, mudflats and beaches as well as inland streams, rivers, marshes and lakes. It may have been the richest hunting, fowling and fishing ground in Europe in the Mesolithic period.\n\nOne big river system found by 3D seismic survey, undertaken by the Birmingham \"North Sea Palaeolandscapes Project,\" was the \"Shotton River\", which drained the south-east part of the Dogger Bank hill area into the east end of the Outer Silver Pit lake. It is named after Birmingham geologist Frederick William Shotton.\n\nAs ice melted at the end of the last glacial period of the current ice age, sea levels rose and the land began to tilt in an isostatic adjustment as the huge weight of ice lessened. Doggerland eventually became submerged, cutting off what was previously the British peninsula from the European mainland by around 6500 BC. The Dogger Bank, an upland area of Doggerland, remained an island until at least 5000 BC. Key stages are now believed to have included the gradual evolution of a large tidal bay between eastern England and Dogger Bank by 9000 BC and a rapid sea-level rise thereafter, leading to Dogger Bank becoming an island and Great Britain becoming physically disconnected from the continent.\n\nA recent hypothesis postulates that much of the remaining coastal land was flooded by a megatsunami around 6200 BC, caused by a submarine landslide off the coast of Norway known as the Storegga Slide. This suggests: \"that the Storegga Slide tsunami would have had a catastrophic impact on the contemporary coastal Mesolithic population... Britain finally became separated from the continent and in cultural terms, the Mesolithic there goes its own way.\" A study published in 2014 suggested that the only remaining parts of Doggerland at the time of the Storegga Slide were low-lying islands, but supported the view that the area had been abandoned at about the same time as the tsunamis.\n\nAnother view speculates that the Storegga tsunami devastated Doggerland but then ebbed back into the sea, and that later Lake Agassiz (in North America) burst releasing so much fresh water that sea levels over about two years rose to flood much of Doggerland and make Britain an island.\n\nThe prehistoric existence of what is now known as Doggerland was established in the late 19th century. H. G. Wells referred to the concept in his short story \"A Story of the Stone Age\" of 1897, set in \"a time when one might have walked dryshod from France (as we call it now) to England, and when a broad and sluggish Thames flowed through its marshes to meet its father Rhine, flowing through a wide and level country that is under water in these latter days, and which we know by the name of the North Sea...Fifty thousand years ago it was, fifty thousand years if the reckoning of geologists is correct\", though most of the action seems to occur in what is now Surrey and Kent, but stretching out to Doggerland.\n\nThe remains of plants brought to the surface from Dogger Bank were studied in 1913 by paleobiologist Clement Reid, and the remains of animals and worked flints from the Neolithic period had also been found. In his book \"The Antiquity of Man\" of 1915, anatomist Sir Arthur Keith discussed the archaeological potential of the area. In 1931, the trawler \"Colinda\" hauled up a lump of peat whilst fishing near the Ower Bank, east of Norfolk. The peat was found to contain a barbed antler point, possibly used as a harpoon or fish spear, long, which dated from between 4,000 and 10,000 BC when the area was tundra.\n\nInterest was reinvigorated in the 1990s by Bryony Coles, who named the area \"Doggerland\" (\"after the great banks in the southern North Sea\") and produced speculative maps of the area. Although she recognised that the current relief of the southern North Sea seabed is not a sound guide to the topography of Doggerland, this topography has more recently begun to be reconstructed more authoritatively using seismic survey data obtained from oil exploration. Between 2003 and 2007 a team at the University of Birmingham led by Vince Gaffney and Ken Thomson mapped around of the Early Holocene landscape, using seismic data provided for research by Petroleum Geo-Services, as part of the work of the University of Birmingham North Sea Palaeolandscapes Project. The results of this study were published as a technical monograph and a popular book on the history and archaeology of Doggerland. Names have been given to some of its features: \"The Spines\" to a system of dunes above the broad \"Shotton River\", the upland area of the \"Dogger Bank\", a basin between two huge sandbanks called \"The Outer Silver Pit\". \nA skull fragment of a Neanderthal, dated at over 40,000 years old, was recovered from material dredged from the Middeldiep, some off the coast of Zeeland, and exhibited in Leiden in 2009. In March 2010 it was reported that recognition of the potential archaeological importance of the area could affect the future development of offshore wind farms.\n\nIn July 2012, the results of study of Doggerland by the universities of Birmingham, St Andrews, Dundee, and Aberdeen, including surveys of artefacts, were displayed at the Royal Society summer exhibition in London. Richard Bates of St Andrews University said:\n\nSince 2015, the University of Bradford's Europe's Lost Frontiers project has continued mapping the prehistoric landscapes of Doggerland and has used this data to direct a programme of extensive coring of marine palaeochannels. Sediment from the cores has provided sedimentary DNA as well as conventional environmental data and these will be used in a major computational modelling programme replicating colonisation of the submerged landscape.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9512033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9512033", "title": "Dora María Téllez", "text": "Dora María Téllez\n\nDora María Téllez (born 1955) is a Nicaraguan historian who is well known for her involvement in the Sandinista Revolution, which deposed the Somoza regime in 1979. As a young university medical student in Leon in the 1970s, Téllez was recruited by the FSLN. The FSLN, also referred to as The Sandinista National Liberation Front, was a socialist party in Nicaragua. The early work of Téllez within the FSLN was through student movements centered around support work for members active in the mountains. Téllez went on to become a comandante in the popular revolt to oust the Nicaraguan dictator, Anastasio Somoza Debayle.\n\nAs \"Commander Two\", at age 22, she was third in command in an on August 22, 1978 that occupied the Nicaraguan National Palace in Managua, where the Nicaraguan National Assembly was in full session. They captured 1,500 civilian hostages and threatened their lives unless their demands were met. The demands included a prisoner release and a monetary ransom. There was a subsequent release of key Sandinista political prisoners and a million dollars ransom payment. Téllez played a role in managing these negotiations.\n\nThis event had repercussions for the 50-year-old Somoza dynasty by revealing the potential vulnerability of the Somoza regime. It also helped the FSLN win support from Latin American governments, unite diverse factions of the opposition to the regime, and prompt them into action. Following the operation, thousands of youths and women joined the Sandinista movement. A popular insurrection grew along with the FSLN and contributed to the fall of the Somoza regime on July 19, 1979.\n\nUpon her arrival in Panama with the released Sandinistas in August 1978, Téllez trained in Cuba and Panama to become a military commander. In February 1979 she was back fighting in Nicaragua and she went on to establish a place in the Tercerista leadership structure. For five months she led Sandinista platoons throughout the country in skirmishes with the Nicaraguan National Guard: first in the Southern Front with Edén Pastora's forces, and later in Central and northern Nicaragua. According to Sandinista Commander Mónica Baltodano, her raids on the northern provinces in conjunction with Cmdr.\n\nFinally, she led the Sandinista units fighting the enemy's elite forces block by block for six consecutive weeks until capturing in June 1979 the city of León, the first major city to fall to the Sandinistas in the Revolution, followed by Managua two weeks later. This was followed by the Sandinista Provisional Government Junta's installation in this city soon after.\n\nAn increase in government repression and rise of political prisoners being taken prompted Téllez to go underground in 1976. While underground she did educational work in the mountains. She later served as Minister of Health in the first Sandinista administration. The administration's public health campaign that won Nicaragua the UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization's prize for exceptional health progress. Specifically, Téllez has been quoted discussing the specific health inequalities present in the mining industry in Nicaragua.\n\nWithin the Sandinistas government, Téllez held positions alongside religious figures to advocate for gay and lesbian rights, as well as reproductive rights for women in Nicaragua.\n\nTéllez wrote publications on Nicaraguan history that underscores the importance of the north-central region of the country to the nation's political and economic history. In 2004 she was appointed Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professor in Latin American studies at the Harvard Divinity School, but was barred from obtaining an entry visa to the US on grounds that she was a terrorist, citing as evidence the raid on the Nicaraguan National Palace in Managua via the Patriot Act. \n\nEarly experience within the FSLN political party included Téllez's position as the Political Secretary for Managua. Téllez also served as a member of the Council of the State. The first congress of the FSLN had an election in 1990 which prompted discontent regarding the election process however the Directorate decided that the subsequent election of a new body would be done so by slate rather than voting for individual members. This stunted the potential political candidacy of Téllez, which was being pushed by many rank-and-file members. Téllez would have been the Directorate's first female member.\n\nIn 1995 Téllez founded the Sandinista Renovation Movement (MRS) after resigning her seat in the FSLN. Other former Sandinistas such as Ernesto Cardenal and Sergio Ramírez have joined the MRS political party. The MRS political party opposed the current corruption in the Nicaraguan government and appointed Herty Lewites to run as the party's candidate in the 2006 presidential election against Daniel Ortega. Four months before the election was to be held, Lewites died of natural causes. Daniel Ortega, whom was president from 1985 to 1990, won the presidential election and regained political power in Nicaragua.\n\nOn June 4, 2008, Téllez began a hunger strike to protest the \"dictatorship of Daniel Ortega\", her former comrade-in-arms who was elected again to the presidency in November, 2006. Ortega and his supporters stripped the MRS of its legal status about one week later. Téllez suspended her hunger strike on June 16, after doctors told her she would suffer irreparable damage if she continued her fast. She vowed to begin \"a new stage of struggle\" against what she termed the dictatorial policies of Daniel Ortega.\n\nDora María Téllez is one of many women part of The Global Feminisms Project, an archive of interviews from women activists and scholars from 7 different countries. This archive was created in 2002 at the University of Michigan. The oral history of Téllez and many other Nicaraguan women, as well as women the USA, China, India, Poland, USA, Brazil, and Russia are recorded by The Global Feminisms Project.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942639", "title": "Doublet (linguistics)", "text": "Doublet (linguistics)\n\nIn etymology, two or more words in the same language are called doublets or etymological twins or twinlings (or possibly triplets, and so forth) when they have different phonological forms but the same etymological root. Often, but not always, the words entered the language through different routes. Given that the kinship between words that have the same root and the same meaning is fairly obvious, the term is mostly used to characterize pairs of words that have diverged at least somewhat in meaning. For example, English \"pyre\" and \"fire\" are doublets with only remotely connected meanings despite both descending ultimately from the same Proto-Indo-European (PIE) word *\"\".\n\nWords with similar meanings but subtle differences contribute to the richness of modern English, and many of these are doublets. A good example consists of the doublets \"frail\" and \"fragile\". (These are both ultimately from the Latin adjective \"\", but \"frail\" evolved naturally through its slowly changing forms in Old French and Middle English, whereas \"fragile\" is a learned borrowing directly from Latin in the 15th century.)\n\nAnother example of nearly synonymous doublets is \"aperture\" and \"overture\" (the commonality behind the meanings is \"opening\"). But doublets may develop divergent meanings, such as the \"opposite\" words \"host\" and \"guest\", which come from the same PIE word *' and already existed as a doublet in Latin ' and then Old French, before being borrowed into English. Doublets also vary with respect to how far their forms have diverged. For example, the connection between \"levy\" and \"levee\" is easy to guess, whereas the connection between \"sovereign\" and \"soprano\", or ' and ', is harder to guess.\n\nDoublets can develop in various ways, according to which route the two forms took from the origin to their current form. Complex, multi-step paths are possible, though in many cases groups of terms follow the same path. Simple paths are discussed below, with the simplest distinction being that doublets in a given language can have their root in the same language (or an ancestor), or may originate in a separate language.\n\nMost simply, a native word can at some point split into two distinct forms, staying within a single language, as with English \"too\" which split from \"to\".\n\nAlternatively, a word may be inherited from a parent language, and a cognate borrowed from a separate sister language. In other words, one route was direct inheritance, while the other route was inheritance followed by borrowing. In English this means one word inherited from a Germanic source, with, e.g., a Latinate cognate term borrowed from Latin or a Romance language. In English this is most common with words which can be traced back to Indo-European languages, which in many cases share the same proto-Indo-European root, such as Romance \"beef\" and Germanic \"cow\". However, in some cases the branching is more recent, dating only to proto-Germanic, not to PIE; many words of Germanic origin occur in French and other Latinate languages, and hence in some cases were both inherited by English (from proto-Germanic) and borrowed from French or another source – see List of English Latinates of Germanic origin. The forward linguistic path also reflects cultural and historical transactions; often the name of an animal comes from Germanic while the name of its cooked meat comes from Romance. Since English is unusual in that it borrowed heavily from two distinct branches of the same language family tree – Germanic and Latinate/Romance – it has a relatively high number of this latter type of etymological twin. See list of Germanic and Latinate equivalents in English for further examples and discussion.\n\nLess commonly, a native word may be borrowed into a foreign language, then reborrowed back into the original language, existing alongside the original term. An English example is \"animation\" and \"anime\" \"Japanese animation\", which was reborrowed from Japanese '. Such a word is sometimes called a ' (German for \"one who wanders back\").\n\nIn case of twins of foreign origin, which consist of two borrowings (of related terms), one can distinguish if the borrowing is of a term and a descendent, or of two cognate terms (siblings).\n\nEtymological twins are often a result of chronologically separate borrowing from a source language. In the case of English, this usually means once from French during the Norman invasion, and again later, after the word had evolved separately in French. An example of this is \"warranty\" and \"guarantee\".\n\nAnother possibility is borrowing from both a language and its daughter language. In English this is usually Latin and some other Romance language, particularly French – see Latin influence in English. The distinction between this and the previous is whether the source language has changed to a different language or not.\n\nLess directly, a term may be borrowed both directly from a source language and indirectly via an intermediate language. In English this is most common in borrowings from Latin, and borrowings from French that are themselves from Latin; less commonly from Greek directly and through Latin.\n\nIn case of borrowing cognate terms, rather than descendents, most simply an existing doublet can be borrowed: two contemporary twin terms can be borrowed.\n\nMore remotely, cognate terms from different languages can be borrowed, such as \"sauce\" (Old French) and \"salsa\" (Spanish), both ultimately from Latin, or \"tea\" (Dutch \"\") and \"chai\" (Hindi), both ultimately from Chinese. This last pair reflects the history of how tea has entered English via different trade routes.\n\nMany thousands of English examples can be found, grouped according to their earliest deducible Indo-European ancestor. In some cases over a hundred English words can be traced to a single root. Some random examples in English include:\n\n\nMany words of French origin were borrowed twice or more. There were at least three periods of borrowing: One that occurred shortly after the Norman Conquest and came from Norman French, one in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries from standard (Parisian) French at the time when English nobles were switching from French to English, and a third one during the sixteenth to nineteenth century, when France was at the height of its power and international influence. Examples of doublets from the first and second periods are \"catch\" vs. \"chase\", \"cattle\" vs. \"chattel\", and \"warden\" vs. \"guardian\". More recent borrowings are often distinguished by maintaining the French spelling and pronunciation, e.g. \"chef\" (vs. \"chief\"), \"pâté\" (vs. \"paste\"), \"fête\" (vs. \"feast\"). There are multiple doublets caused by the \"w\" → \"g\" and \"ca\" → \"cha\" sound changes, which happened in standard French but not Norman French. Several of these examples also reflect changes that occurred after Old French which caused the possible environments of to be greatly reduced.\n\nDerivative cognates are a classification of Chinese characters which have similar meanings and often the same etymological root, but which have diverged in pronunciation and meaning. An example is the doublet and . At one time they were pronounced similarly and meant \"old (person).\" ( in Standard Mandarin) has retained this meaning, but now mainly means \"examine\".\n\nDiffering literary and colloquial readings of certain Chinese characters are common doublets in many Chinese varieties, and the reading distinctions for certain phonetic features often typify a dialect group. \nFor a given Chinese variety, colloquial readings typically reflect native vernacular phonology. Literary readings are used in some formal settings (recitation, some loanwords and names) and originate from other, typically more prestigious varieties. \nSometimes literary and colloquial readings of the same character have different meanings. For example, in Cantonese, the character can have the colloquial pronunciation (\"inexpensive\"), and the literary pronunciation (\"flat\").\n\nIn Japanese, doublets are most significant in borrowings from Chinese, and are visible as different on'yomi (Sino-Japanese readings) of kanji characters. There have been three major periods of borrowing from Chinese, together with some modern borrowings. These borrowings are from different regions (hence different Chinese varieties) and different periods, and thus the pronunciations have varied, sometimes widely. However, due to consistent Chinese writing, with cognate morphemes represented by the same character, the etymological relation is clear. This is most significant at the level of morphemes, where a given character is pronounced differently in different words, but in some cases the same word was borrowed twice. In scholarly terms, these have been very valuable for reconstructing the sounds of Middle Chinese, and understanding how the pronunciations differed between Chinese regions and varied over time.\n\nIn Hindi and other New Indo-Aryan languages, native doublets are identified as either ' ('became that'), which is ultimately derived from Sanskrit but underwent changes through time, or ' ('same as that'), which is borrowed directly from literary Sanskrit. For example, Hindi ' 'tiger' is derived by historical stages () from Sanskrit ' 'tiger'. Meanwhile, Hindi has also directly borrowed () the Sanskrit word \"\", meaning 'tiger' in a more literary register.\n\n\n\nAs with many languages in Europe, a great deal of borrowing from written Latin – ' (Latinisms), or ' (learnèd words) – occurred during the Renaissance and the early modern era. Because Spanish is itself a Romance language already with many native words of Latin ancestry (transmitted orally, so with natural sound changes), the later written borrowing created a number of doublets. Adding to this was Spain's conquest by the Moors in the Middle Ages, leading to another vector for creating doublets (Latin to Arabic to Spanish).\n\n"}
{"id": "32860778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32860778", "title": "Easyswap", "text": "Easyswap\n\nEasyswap is a Switzerland-based on-line local exchange trading system (LETS) platform featuring geolocation data as well as a complementary currency.\n\nEasyswap began as an initiative of the city of Lausanne, Switzerland, to reduce social problems such as long-term unemployment and social exclusion.\n\nA working group, made up of welfare recipients recruited by the city's social services department, came up with the idea of a web-based project modeled on local exchange trading systems (LETS). Their project was to serve two purposes: promote social inclusion by nurturing contacts between different societal groups and encourage the sustainable consumption of consumer goods.\n\nAdministered by an eponymous non profit association, easyswap.org was officially launched in October, 2008.\n\nIn August 2011, a version of the easyswap platform was developed for the University of Lausanne.\n\nThe swap is a virtual, complementary currency in use on the easyswap platform. The swap has a \"theoretical value\" of one Swiss franc and cannot be bought or sold using any other currency. Its value is determined by individual members who are free to set their own prices.\n\nThe easyswap platform uses an open source technology based on PHP5 Zend Framework developed and maintained by Swap 'n' roll.\n\nOther open source LETS platforms include Cyclos, WebLETS and Cclite.\n\n"}
{"id": "46294111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294111", "title": "El aula vacía", "text": "El aula vacía\n\nEl Aula Vacía () is a 2015 documentary film produced by Gael Garcia Bernal, and directed by 11 film directors, including Eryk Rocha and Pablo Stoll.\n\nThe film premiered in March 2015 at the Guadalajara Film Festival, will screen on 16 April 2015 at the Buenos Aires International Festival of Independent Cinema, and will be shown on 23 April at the Malaga Film Festival.\n\nThe film relates the problems of high school students in Latin America, where only one out of two students ever graduate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52256025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52256025", "title": "Elizabeth V. Hume", "text": "Elizabeth V. Hume\n\nElizabeth Valerie Hume (born 29 October 1956) is a Canadian phonologist. Hume received her Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1992. She was a Professor of Linguistics at the Ohio State University from 1992 to 2011. From 2006-2011, she served as professor and chair of the Department of Linguistics. From 2011-2017, she was a Professor of Linguistics at University of Canterbury in New Zealand. She returned to Ohio State to serve as Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Education on October 1, 2017. \n\nShe is an associate editor of Phonology from 2008 to the present.\n\nHer fields of research are sound systems of human language, factors influencing language variation and change, and the role of information and predictability in shaping language systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46765014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46765014", "title": "Experimental Pragmatics", "text": "Experimental Pragmatics\n\nExperimental Pragmatics is an academic area that uses experiments (concerning children's and adults' comprehension of sentences, utterances, or story-lines) to test theories about the way people understand utterances—and, by extension, one another—in context (this is an area known as pragmatics).\n\nGiven that an utterance generally does not fully determine the message it is destined to convey, the main question this field asks is, how does a listener fully comprehend a speaker's intention? For example, if one were to read about a singer who says \"That was a brilliant performance\" to her colleague after they both sang beautifully, the utterance would seem sincere and truthful. If the same utterance were made after both sang terribly, the utterance would be perceived as ironic. The very same utterance can have two entirely different interpretations as a function of the speaker's intended meaning.\n\nExperimental pragmatics adopts existing cognitive and psycholinguistic techniques in order to carry out its investigations. While developmental progressions can reveal how interlocutors across several ages interpret utterances with clear pragmatic potential, reading times can reveal how sentences are processed (as relatively easy or difficult). While EEGs can reveal sharp on-line measures for determining how a word is integrated into a sentence, fMRI can reveal what areas of the brain are recruited when processing one reading over another.\n\nPhilosophers have laid the groundwork for much of the work in pragmatics. Modern investigations can be traced back to Paul Grice and his philosophical approach to utterance understanding. Grice’s initial contribution was to propose a novel analysis in which he distinguished between \"sentence meaning\" (what the words and grammar mean) and \"speaker’s meaning\" (what the speaker actually intended to communicate by uttering a sentence). According to Grice, understanding an utterance requires access to, or making hypotheses about, the speaker’s intention and thus involves going beyond the meanings of the words in the sentence.\n\nThe experimental turn was the result of an effort to test theories that had until then relied largely on intuition. The most investigated topic in experimental pragmatics is scalar implicature, which concerns the way a weakly expressed utterance (e.g. \"Some of their identity documents are forgeries\") is interpreted. While the linguistic meaning of the utterance is general (\"Some and perhaps all of their identity documents are forgeries\"), a listener can conceivably attribute to the speaker a more narrow (and more informative) interpretation (\"Some but not all of their identity documents are forgeries\"). While the narrower meaning seems readily accessible to our intuitions, the question is how does it emerge. The earliest experiments pitted an account that assumed that the narrower reading occurs automatically or by default against an account that argued that there are no such defaults, that all interpretations rely on context and that it is perfectly reasonable at times to adopt the more general reading (see Noveck & Reboul, 2008). While scalar implicatures continue to dominate discussion, other prominent topics that fall under the rubric of experimental pragmatics include irony, metaphor, metonymy, reference, and word-learning.\n\nThe growing impact of Experimental Pragmatics can be seen through the increasing number of conferences, workshops, grants, and jobs that have been devoted to it. In one recent announcement (September 2015) for a workshop entitled \"Trends in Experimental Pragmatics,\" and organized by the Zentrum für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft (ZAS) in Berlin, the organizers wrote: \"The field of Experimental Pragmatics was founded by the publication of Noveck & Sperber (2004) who confidently wrote: 'this volume lays down the bases for a new field, Experimental Pragmatics, that draws on pragmatics, psycholinguistics and also on the psychology of reasoning.' The bold prediction has proven remarkably accurate: Experimental Pragmatics has since successfully established itself as an independent field of research, providing a new perspective on age-old pragmatic problems and inspiring new lines of inquiry. In addition to the fields Noveck & Sperber above mentioned, semantics, neuroscience and philosophy have also contributed to Experimental Pragmatics, but also been influenced by it.\"\n\nThe first workshop with the title \"Experimental Pragmatics\" took place in Luton, UK in 1998 and was organized by Billy Clark and Steve Nicolle under the auspices of the Linguistics Association of Great Britain (LAGB). The field began to catch on after a workshop in 2001 (organized by Ira Noveck and Dan Sperber in Lyon, France under the auspices of the European Science Foundation). The workshop organizers invited many of the pragmatists and psychologists who consistently relied on, or called for, experimental findings to support or test their pragmatic accounts. Participants in the workshop included Anne Bezuidenhout, Robyn Carston, Gennaro Chierchia, Billy Clark, Herb Clark, Ray Gibbs, Vittorio Girotto, Sam Glucksberg, Rachel Giora, Ira Noveck, Guy Politzer, Anne Reboul, Francois Recanati, Tony Sanford, Dan Sperber, Johan van der Auwera, Jean-Baptiste van der Henst, and Deirdre Wilson. Contributors to the volume (Noveck & Sperber, 2004) were those who pioneered the carrying out of experimental approaches to test pragmatic accounts. Although informal conferences took place after the 2001 workshop, proper biennial conferences on the topic of Experimental Pragmatics have been held since 2005 across Europe. The conference, now known as \"XPrag\", was held in the United States for the first time in July, 2015. A book entitled \"Experimental Pragmatics: The Making of a Cognitive Science\", by Ira Noveck, came out in October 2018.\n\nTwo major European grants have supported the field. The European Science Foundation's (ESF's) Research Network Program (EURO-XPRAG) sponsored European collaborations, workshops and conferences between 2009 and 2014. The German Research Foundation (DFG) established the priority program XPRAG.de in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "26007431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26007431", "title": "Eyvind Mehle", "text": "Eyvind Mehle\n\nEyvind Mehle (1895 – 15 July 1945) was a Norwegian radio personality, media professor and Nazi collaborator.\n\nHe was born as Eyvind Mæhle, but changed his last name in 1930. He was hired in 1925 in Kringkastingsselskapet, the first broadcaster of Norwegian radio. One of his specialities were half-hour lectures in the form of travel descriptions. He later joined the Norwegian Fascist party Nasjonal Samling in its first year of existence, 1933, and served as its press spokesperson for some years.\n\nOn 9 April 1940 Norway was invaded by Nazi Germany, and a German occupation followed. On 25 September 1940, Mehle was named as director of verbal programs in Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation radio. As one of two program directors, the other being Edvard Sylou-Creutz, Mehle was considered as the successor of pre-war broadcasting director Olav Midttun, despite being a subordinate of commissary president Wilhelm Frimann Koren Christie.\n\nThis command chain did not work well. Although there was some rivalry between Mehle and Sylou-Crantz, the most severe rivalry was between Mehle and Christie. To start with, Mehle had to hand Christie his inaugural speech on 29 September, because Christie had limited knowledge of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation. In a broader context, as Nazis, Mehle was a Germanophile Hitler supporter whereas Christie was a more Norwegian-nationalistic Quisling supporter. In addition, Christie's freemasonry caused resentment. Mehle intrigued by pitting Christie against the broadcasting department () of the Reichskommissariat Norwegen. He also treated his own subordinates badly; he threatened employees with a gun on numerous occasions, and showed signs of paranoia and general mental instability.\n\nIn the spring of 1941, Mehle became leader (Führer) of the Nasjonal Samling party chapter at the Broadcasting Corporation. After a while, however, the personal antagonisms led to him seeking another job. He was appointed as professor of media studies at the Nazi-occupied University of Oslo. Since late 1943 no tuition or teaching had taken place at the University, only research.\n\nAround the end of World War II in Norway in May 1945, Mehle fled to Sweden. He drowned there later in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "8652637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8652637", "title": "Frank-Richard Hamm", "text": "Frank-Richard Hamm\n\nFrank-Richard Hamm (October 8, 1920 — November 11, 1973) was a 20th-century Indologist and Tibetologist. Frank-Richard Hamm was born on October 8, 1920 in Königsberg.\n\nHis family moved to Hamburg two years later where he graduated from the Kirchenpauer Gymnasium in 1939. From shortly after beginning university in 1940 until 1945 he served in the military. He completed his undergraduate studies in 1948. From 1948 to 1952 he was a tutor of Indology at Hamburg, and from 1952 to 1954 he was a member of the International Academy of Indian Culture in Nagpur, India. He worked as an academic in Hamburg, Berlin, and Bonn, where he remained as a professor from 1965 until his death.\n\nHis works were devoted to Jainism, the transmission of Sanskrit Buddhist texts in Tibetan, and the biography and poetry of the Tibetan saint Milaräpa. Hamm died November, 11th 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "6154740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6154740", "title": "Giuseppe Ferlini", "text": "Giuseppe Ferlini\n\nGiuseppe Ferlini (April 23, 1797 – December 30, 1870) was an Italian combat medic turned explorer and treasure hunter, well known for having raided and vandalized several pyramids of Meroë.\n\nBorn in Bologna, it is known that since 1815 he travelled across Greece and later he reached Egypt; here he joined the Egyptian Army during the Egyptian conquest of Sudan and in 1830 he became surgeon-major. Under the army, he stayed at Sennar and then at Khartoum where he met the Albanian merchant Antonio Stefani. Later he decided to desert and devote himself to treasure-hunting, determined to either “return home penniless, or carrying unprecedented treasures”. Along with Stefani, Ferlini organized an expedition that left for Meroë on August 10, 1834.\n\nOnce arrived at Meroë, and incited by the local workers who talked about a legend regarding 40 \"ardeb\" of gold, Ferlini started to raid and demolish several pyramids, which were found “in good conditions” by Frédéric Cailliaud just a few years earlier. At Wad ban Naqa, he leveled the pyramid N6 of the \"kandake\" Amanishakheto starting from the top, and finally found her treasure composed of dozens of gold and silver jewelry pieces. Overall, he is considered responsible for the destruction of over 40 pyramids.<br>\n\nHaving found the treasure he was looking for, in 1836 Ferlini returned home. A year later he wrote a report of his expedition containing a catalog of his findings, which was translated in French and republished in 1838. He tried to sell the treasure, but at this time nobody believed that such high quality jewellery could be made in Black Africa. His finds were finally sold in Germany: part of these were purchased by king Ludwig I of Bavaria and are now in the State Museum of Egyptian Art of Munich, while the remaining – under suggestions of Karl Richard Lepsius and of Christian Charles Josias von Bunsen – was bought by the Egyptian Museum of Berlin where it still is.\n\nFerlini died in Bologna on December 30, 1870 and was buried in the Certosa di Bologna.\n"}
{"id": "58571976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58571976", "title": "Heaven for the nobles, Purgatory for the townspeople, Hell for the peasants, and Paradise for the Jews", "text": "Heaven for the nobles, Purgatory for the townspeople, Hell for the peasants, and Paradise for the Jews\n\n\"Heaven for the nobles, Purgatory for the townspeople, Hell for the peasants, and Paradise for the Jews\" (Latin: Clarum regnum Polonorum est coelum nobiliorum, paradisus Judaeorum, purgatorium plebeiorum et infernus rusticorum) is a satirical proverb, dating back to the sixteenth century, about the society of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in Early modern Europe, describing the social and political system known as the Golden Liberty or Nobles' Commonwealth, generally seen as very favorable for the nobility (szlachta), less so for the townspeople (mieszczaństwo or burghers), and much less so for the enserfed peasantry. The \"Paradise for Jews\" part of the proverb, which refers to the Golden Age of Jews in Poland and is often used to positively compare the situation of Jews in the Commonwealth with that of their brethren in other contemporary European countries, has been also described as exaggerating the position of Jews in the Commonwealth society, which was not that comparable to the most privileged class, the nobility.\n\nThe proverb is based on a 1606 satirical pasquinade that has been described as \"critical of everything in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth—foreigners, immigrants, “heretics,” peasants, burgers, and servants, and also Jews\". \n\nThe proverb dates to 16th or more likely 17th century; by the latter time it had become quite popular. Polish historian Stanisław Kot found the earliest printed reference to this saying in an anonymous Latin poem (though with a Polish title, \"Paskwiliusze na królewskim weselu podrzucone, lit. \"Pasquinades [a genre of satirical epigram] planted at the royal wedding party\")\" of 1606, satirically commemorating the wedding of Sigismund III Vasa and Constance of Austria the previous year. The poem was later included in a work by Szymon Starowolski in 1636. Several variations of the poem appear in brief Latin verses from throughout Europe in the writing of the Croat Juraj Križanić (1664) and later the Italian (1685) and the Slovak (1708-9). It has been repeated in various works since; for example the father of the last king of Poland, Stanisław Poniatowski, in regard to Jewish occupants of his private town in the 18th century, and in the 19th century is it was used by Polish novelist Józef Ignacy Kraszewski, who referred to it as \"an old proverb\". It was also used by modern non-Polish authors; for example in a travelogue to Jewish Poland by the 20th century German novelist Alfred Döblin.\n\nThe phrases are often in a varying order, with some elements omitted (ex. Kraszewski cites only the \"Hell for the peasants, and Paradise for the Jews\" part). The four-part version, including the reference to the purgatory for the townspeople, has been recorded in Polish paremiology collection of 1887 by (\"Polska niebem dla szlachty, czyśćcem dla mieszczan, piekłem dla chłopów, a rajem dla Żydów\"), and it is also closest to the 1606 original, which differs only in order, and in referring to the ruling class as \"courtiers' dominion\" rather then \"heaven for the nobles\". Križanić used \"Paradisus Hebraeorum\" (Hebrews' Paradise) instead of Jewish Paradise. A five-part version version including another phrase from the 1606 poem, a non-Biblical reference to Poland as a goldmine for foreigners also exists; it has been attributed as a German proverb in 1861 and goes \"Polen ist der Bauern Holle, der Juden Paradies, der Burger Fegefeuer, der Edelleute Himmel, under der Fremden Goldgrube\".\n\nThe author of the 1606 pasquinade is unknown, through it has been suggested by Stanisław Kot that it was created by a Catholic townsman, perhaps a priest, jealous of the nobility and the Jewry. Konrad Matyjaszek has described the 1606 work as \"expressing anti-gentry and anti-Jewish sentiments\". Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett summarized the original text as \"a pasquinade critical of everything in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth—foreigners, immigrants, “heretics,” peasants, burgers, and servants, and also Jews.\" \n\nOver the time, the longer poem has lapsed into obscurity, and reduced to a popular proverb. The sarcastic and satirical proverb contrasts the starkly different situation of four social classes in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, with the most privileged nobility (szlachta) on top (\"paradise for nobles\"), and the impoverished, usually enserfed peasantry on the bottom (\"hell for peasants). The other two classes are the townspeople (burghers) and the Jewry. By 16th century, the position of the town-dwellers in the Commonwealth has been declining (hence, the \"purgatory for townspeople\"), while the situation of Polish Jewry was reasonably safe and prosperous, particularly when compared to the situation of Jewry in most other European countries (hence, the \"heaven for Jews\").\n\nThe expression \"Paradisus Iudaeorum\" (also spelled \"Paradisus Judaeorum\", lit. \"Paradise of the Jews\") has been often used to refer to the golden age of Jewish life in Poland and to compare Poland to the Jewish homeland. John Klier entitled one of his book chapters about Eastern European Jewish history \"Poland-Lithuania: \"Paradise for Jews\"\". Gershon Hundert wrote: \"The Polish Jewish community was vibrant, creative, proud and self-confident [...]. Their neighbours knew this as well, referring to Poland as Paradisus Judaeorum [...]. The full expression went: 'Poland is heaven for the nobility, hell for the peasants and paradise for Jews'.\" The comparison has been generally described as exaggerated (Hundert himself noted it was a hyperbole), as the Jewish situation in early modern Poland, while comparatively privileged compared to many other classes in the Commonwealth, and to the Jewish position in many other contemporary countries, was hardly idyllic. As Norman Davies notes, the position of the nobility was clearly much superior to that of the Jewry. \n\nThe phrase is used as the name of a gallery covering the \"Golden Age of Polish Jewry\" period in POLIN Museum of the History of Polish Jews that opened in 2013 in Warsaw, though this was criticized for being a lampooning reference, and its inclusion and form were subject to a heated discussion. This ambiguity was first going to be expressed with a question mark appended to the gallery's name, but it was later decided not to include this. Elżbieta Janicka, in her 2016 critique of the POLIN Museum exhibition, has described the saying as an anti-Semitic myth, at the same time noting that it has been used by pro-assimilation Polish Jews in the era of the Second Polish Republic (such as in the Jewish assimilationist newspaper \"Rozwaga\" in 1918) \"for the purpose of convincing Polish public opinion that: a) Jews have the right to live in Poland; b) the “true Poland” is a Poland that is kind to Jews; c) anti-Semitism is a misunderstanding: a non-Polish element, instilled by the partitioning powers\". Also in 2016, argued that the use of this phrase for the museum's exhibition is disrespectful. Konrad Matyjaszek wrote that the phrase Paradisus Judaeorum was used by the 17th century anonymous writer \"to express his conviction that Poland is ruled by Jews and that they enjoy excessive privileges\". Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett, Program Director of the Core Exhibition of the POLIN Museum, commenting on that controversy and explaining why the museum has chosen to use this phrase in the first place, acknowledged that if taken out of context, \"to characterize the Commonwealth as a Jewish paradise could be seen as a way of saying that Jews had it “too good\"\", but the use of this phrase is intentional, as it is the exhibition intention to engage the reader in a complex debate that is more than just a simple, binary white and black, good and evil simplicity.\n\nIn 2017 Kamil Kijek summarizing both sides of the debate has explicit noted that while \"The criticism pertaining to the somewhat unfortunate name of the gallery [...] is justified. The name “Paradise for Jews” is given without quotation marks there. Visitors to the Museum do not have an opportunity to learn from the exhibition that its title is taken from an anti-Jewish text, which claims that the good living conditions Jews enjoyed in Poland were something that should change\", the phrase is just one of many elements framing the Wall of Words museum exhibition which displays this proverb (among a number of other sayings and quotes). Kijek notes that the POLIN exhibition was designed by \"one of the most distinguished experts on the history of Jews in Poland in the modern period, \" and the scope of the museum is more than just \"antisemitism and showing Jews as its victims\", something that critics of the museum, most notably Janicka, unduly focusing on the potentially misleading \"Jewish Paradise\" phrase, seem to disregard. He concludes that out of context the saying can indeed be confusing, but within a broader context it is representative of a much more complex and nuanced relationship between Jews and the Poles. As of 2018, POLIN Museum's gallery retains the name Paradisus Iudaeorum.\n\n"}
{"id": "7485789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7485789", "title": "Historical particularism", "text": "Historical particularism\n\nHistorical particularism (coined by Marvin Harris in 1968) is widely considered the first American anthropological school of thought.\n\nClosely associated with Franz Boas and the Boasian approach to anthropology, historical particularism rejected the cultural evolutionary model that had dominated anthropology until Boas. It argued that each society is a collective representation of its unique historical past. Boas rejected parallel evolutionism, the idea that all societies are on the same path and have reached their specific level of development the same way all other societies have. Instead, historical particularism showed that societies could reach the same level of cultural development through different paths.\n\nBoas suggested that diffusion, trade, corresponding environment, and historical accident may create similar cultural traits. Three traits, as suggested by Boas, are used to explain cultural customs: environmental conditions, psychological factors, and historical connections, history being the most important (hence the school's name).\n\nCritics of historical particularism argue that it is anti theoretical because it doesn't seek to make universal theories, applicable to all the world's cultures. Boas believed that theories would arise spontaneously once enough data was collected. This school of anthropological thought was the first to be uniquely American and Boas (his school of thought included) was, arguably, the most influential anthropological thinker in American history.\n\n"}
{"id": "31496215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31496215", "title": "Ira Chernus", "text": "Ira Chernus\n\nIra Chernus (born October 29, 1946) is a journalist, author, and Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He received his Ph.D. in Religion from Temple University, specializing in the history of rabbinic Judaism. His academic writing now focuses on the foreign policy of US presidents. He has published books on Dwight Eisenhower and George W. Bush and is currently writing a book on Franklin D. Roosevelt. As a journalist, he has written extensively on peace, war, foreign policy, and nationalism in the United States, as well as the Israel-Palestine conflict and U.S. Middle East policy. He has written often for the Huffington Post, CommonDreams, TomDispatch, AlterNet, Truthout, Foreign Policy In Focus, and Religion Dispatches. In 2012 he started a new blog, MythicAmerica.us, and published online MythicAmerica: Essays. His recent writings on Israel, Palestine, and the U.S. are also collected on a separate blog. Many of his earlier writings can be found on his University of Colorado website. He has lectured in Lebanon, Finland, Australia, and Canada, as well as extensively throughout the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35295969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35295969", "title": "John Albert Bullbrook", "text": "John Albert Bullbrook\n\nJohn Albert Bullbrook (1882–1967; born in the Medway area in what was then Kent in South-East England) was an author, archaeologist and archaeological historian, who went to Trinidad in 1913 as a petroleum geologist. He began his archaeological career in 1919, pioneering the search on the indigenous population of Trinidad.\n\nBy the early 1930s, he already provides evidence of the prominence of reflections on the indigenous history of Trinidad, and on the figure of the Carib, in some of the élites’ writings of local history.\n\nFamously in a public lecture in 1938, John Bullbrook, by then a local specialist in the Amerindian history of Trinidad, made the comment: \"To this day we speak of the Queen if the Caribs at Arima, yet I doubt if there is much--if any--Carib blood in her race.\".\n\nIn 1940, for a public lecture and book published under the Royal Victoria Museum and the Historical Society of Trinidad and Tobago, entitled \"The Ierian Race\", Bullbrook wrote: \"Probably, if I were to ask any of my audience this evening what was the predominant or even the only race in Trinidad at the time of the discovery by Cristobal Colon, the reply would be unhesitatingly: ‘Why, Carib, of course’\".\n\nThroughout the 1940s, he conducted extensive excavations in the Amerindian middens in Cedros, Erin and Palo Seco. The Cedros site in Trinidad, which he excavated with Irving Rouse in 1946, is considered one of the most important archaeological sites in the Caribbean, consisting of a partly destroyed shell midden located on the southwest tip of Trinidad. The corrected radiocarbon datings for the finds at this site were given as 190 B.C. and A.D. 100.\n\nBullbrook, as a partisan in the local debate over whether the true natives of Trinidad were Carib or Arawak, lamented later, in 1960, that the \"tradition\" of believing that Caribs were the indigenous people of Trinidad was \"deep rooted and hard to destroy\".\n\nIn July 1960, Bullbrook, at the first conference in the West Indies on pre-Columbian archaeology held in Fort-de-France, Martinique, discussed his research into the \"Arawaks and Caribs of Trinidad\" along with the likes of Rev. Father Pinchon and A. H. Anderson. Articles of Bullbrook's have been published in magazines with a varying range of readers such as \"The Caribbean\", \"Caribbean Quarterly\", and \"Shell Magazine\".\n\nHe later became curator of the Royal Victoria Institute (now the National Museum), and died at the age of 85 (in 1967).\n\nJohn Bullbrook (who was the first to use modern stratigraphic techniques in Trinidad), having been educated in Great Britain, had previous field experience in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. His techniques represent a significant advance over the ‘museological’ approach that characterized the work of Fewkes (1850–1930) and de Booy (1882–1919).\n\nHis collection of correspondence with Yale University (1941–1963), with a variety of people on the subject of archaeology in the West Indies (1917–1960), with the Historical Society of Trinidad and Tobago (1939–1949); and correspondence with the Trinidad and Tobago Field Naturalists Club, have all been donated to the University of the West Indies by Carlisle Chang (in October 2000).\n\nBullbrook was homosexual, but was married to the lesbian painter Amy Leong Pang.\n\n"}
{"id": "25043250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25043250", "title": "Lenz v. Universal Music Corp.", "text": "Lenz v. Universal Music Corp.\n\nLenz v. Universal Music Corp., 801 F.3d 1126 (2015), is a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, affirming the ruling in 2008 of the US District Court for the Northern District of California, holding that copyright holders must consider fair use in good faith before issuing a takedown notice for content posted on the Internet.\n\nStephanie Lenz posted on YouTube a home video of her child dancing to Prince's song \"Let's Go Crazy\". Universal Music Corporation (Universal) sent YouTube a takedown notice pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) claiming that Lenz's video violated their copyright in the \"Let's Go Crazy\" song.\n\nLenz claimed fair use of the copyrighted material and sued Universal for misrepresentation of a DMCA claim. In a decision rejecting a motion to dismiss the misrepresentation claim, the district court held that Universal must consider fair use when filing a takedown notice, but noted that to prevail a plaintiff would need to show bad faith by a rights holder.\n\nIn February 2007, Stephanie Lenz posted on YouTube a twenty nine second clip, of her 13 month old son dancing to Prince's song \"Let's Go Crazy\". The audio was of poor quality, and the song was audible for about twenty seconds of the twenty nine seconds. In June 2007, Universal, the copyright holder for \"Let's Go Crazy\", sent YouTube a takedown notice in compliance with DMCA requirements, claiming the video was a copyright violation. YouTube removed the video, and notified Lenz of the removal and the alleged infringement.\n\nIn the end of June 2007, Lenz sent YouTube a counter-notification, claiming fair use and requesting the video be reposted. Six weeks later, YouTube reposted the video. In July 2007, Lenz sued Universal for misrepresentation under the DMCA, and sought a declaration from the court that her use of the copyrighted song was non infringing.\n\nAccording to the DMCA 17 U.S.C. § 512(c)(3)(A)(v), the copyright holder must consider whether use of the material was allowed by the copyright owner or the law. In September 2007, Prince released statements that he intended to \"reclaim his art on the internet\". In October 2007, Universal released a statement that Prince and Universal intended to remove all user-generated content involving Prince from the Internet, as a matter of principle.\n\nBased on Prince's and Universal's statements, Lenz argued that Universal was issuing takedown notices in bad faith, as they attempted to remove all Prince related content rather than considering whether each posting violated copyright, and in particular was a non infringing fair use. Universal expressed concerns over the fact-intensive investigation and subjective results of determining whether a potentially infringing use falls under the general fair use doctrine.\n\nThe district court held that copyright owners must consider fair use before issuing DMCA takedown notices. Thus, the district court denied Universal's motion to dismiss Lenz's claims, and declined to dismiss Lenz's misrepresentation claim as a matter of law. The district court believed that Universal's concerns over the burden of considering fair use were overstated, as mere good faith consideration of fair use, not necessarily an in depth investigation, is sufficient defense against misrepresentation.\n\nThe court also explained that liability for misrepresentation is crucial in an important part of the balance in the DMCA. On February 25, 2010, Judge Fogel issued a ruling rejecting several of Universal's affirmative defenses, including the defense that Lenz suffered no damages, though the court did suggest that at that stage in the proceedings, Lenz's damages seemed nominal.\n\nIn January 2013, Judge Fogel denied both parties' motions for summary judgment.\n\nBoth parties cross appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral argument was held July 7, 2015. On September 14, 2015, the 9th Circuit affirmed the District Court, holding that while fair use arises procedurally as an affirmative defense, copyright holders have a \"duty to consider—in good faith and prior to sending a takedown notification—whether allegedly infringing material constitutes fair use\".\n\nImportantly, the court viewed fair use not as a valid excuse to otherwise infringing conduct but rather as not infringement in the first place. \"Because 17 U.S.C. § 107 created a type of non-infringing use, fair use is 'authorized by the law' and a copyright holder must consider the existence of fair use before sending a takedown notification under § 512(c).\"\n\nLenz appealed to the US Supreme Court asking the question:\n\nThe US Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari in this case on June 19, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43428530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43428530", "title": "Lesser magistrate", "text": "Lesser magistrate\n\nThe doctrine of the lesser magistrate is a concept in Protestant thought. A lesser magistrate is a ruler such as a prince who is under a greater ruler such as an emperor. According to many figures of the Reformation and Post-Reformation eras, the lesser magistrate has the authority to rebel against the tyranny of a supreme ruler.\n\nThe doctrine of the lesser magistrate finds its origin in John Calvin, who wrote that whereas private Christians must submit to the ruling authorities, there are \"popular magistrates\" who have \"been appointed to curb the tyranny of kings\". When these magistrates \"connive at kings when they tyrannise and insult over the humbler of the people\" they \"fraudulently betray the liberty of the people\" when God has appointed them guardians of that liberty.\n\nThe lesser magistrate is prominent in the Lutheran \"Magdeburg Confession\" of 1550, which argued that the \"subordinate powers\" in a state, faced with the situation where the \"supreme power\" is working to destroy true religion, may go further than non-cooperation with the supreme power and assist the faithful to resist.\n\nThe doctrine of the lesser magistrate became important for the justification of the Dutch Revolt. According to Johannes Althusius in 1603 work, \"Politica\", resistance to a supreme magistrate by lesser magistrates is justified in the case of tyranny. Althusius argued that the provincial authorities of the United Provinces were in this situation.\n\nGary M. Simpson suggests that after the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in 1572 there was a \"populist expansion\" of the doctrine in which \"the ruled would no longer be merely the subject of the ruler; they would become citizens.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6636016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6636016", "title": "Liquidator (law)", "text": "Liquidator (law)\n\nIn law, a liquidator is the officer appointed when a company goes into winding-up or liquidation who has responsibility for collecting in all of the assets under such circumstances of the company and settling all claims against the company before putting the company into dissolution.\n\nIn English law, the term \"liquidator\" was first used in the Joint Stock Companies Act 1856. Prior to that time, the equivalent role was fulfilled by \"official managers\" pursuant to the amendments to the Joint Stock Companies Winding-Up Act 1844 passed in 1848 - 1849.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, a liquidator's powers are defined by statute. Certain powers are generally exercisable without the requirement of any approvals; others may require sanction, either by the court, by an extraordinary resolution (in a members' voluntary winding up) or the liquidation committee or a meeting of the company's creditors (in a creditors' voluntary winding-up).\n\nThe liquidator would normally require sanction to pay creditors and to make compromises or arrangement with creditors. Without sanction (unless it is a compulsory winding-up), the liquidator may carry on legal proceedings and carry on the business of the company so far as may be necessary for a beneficial winding-up. Without sanction, the liquidator may, \"inter alia\", sell company property, claim against insolvent contributories, raise money on the security of company assets, and do all such things as may be necessary for the winding-up and distribution of assets.\n\nIn compulsory liquidation, the liquidator must assume control of all property to which the company appears to be entitled. The exercise of their powers is subject to the supervision of the court. They may be compelled to call a meeting of creditors or contributories when requested to do so by those holding above the statutory minimum.\n\nIn a voluntary winding-up, the liquidator may exercise the court's power of settling a list of contributories and of making calls, and he may summon general meetings of the company for any purpose he thinks fit. In a creditor's voluntary winding-up, he must report to the creditor's meeting on the exercise of his powers.\n\nThe liquidator is generally obliged to make returns and accounts, owes fiduciary duties to the company and should investigate the causes of the company's failure and the conduct of its managers, in the wider public interest of action being taken against those engaged in commercially culpable conduct.\n\nA liquidator who is appointed to wind-up a failing business should act with professional efficiency and not exercise the sort of complacency that might have caused the business to decline in the first place.\n\nWhere, during the investigation of the affairs of the company, the liquidator uncovers wrongdoing on the part of the management of the company, he may have power to bring proceedings for wrongful trading or, in extreme cases, for fraudulent trading.\n\nHowever, the liquidator cannot normally enter into a champertous agreement to assign the fruits of an action to a third party offering to finance the litigation, if the right to said action accrued solely as a result of the liquidator's statutory duties, instead of being a right to action that had existed before the liquidator came on the scene.\n\nThe liquidator may also seek to set aside transactions which were entered into by the company in the time immediately preceding the company going into liquidation where he forms the view that they constitute an unfair preference or a transaction at an undervalue.\n\nDepending upon the type of the liquidation, the liquidator may be removed by the court, by a general meeting of the members or by a general meeting of the creditors.\n\nThe court may also remove a liquidator and appoint another if there is \"cause shown\" by the applicant for his removal. It is not normally necessary to demonstrate personal misconduct or unfitness for this purpose. However, it will be enough if the liquidator fails to display sufficient vigour in the discharge of his duties, for instance, by not establishing the current assets and recent trading of the company or in not attempting to secure favourable terms for the company in relation to the disposal of its assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2968943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2968943", "title": "Los caprichos", "text": "Los caprichos\n\nLos caprichos are a set of 80 prints in aquatint and etching created by the Spanish artist Francisco Goya in 1797 and 1798, and published as an album in 1799. The prints were an artistic experiment: a medium for Goya's condemnation of the universal follies and foolishness in the Spanish society in which he lived. The criticisms are far-ranging and acidic; he speaks against the predominance of superstition, the ignorance and inabilities of the various members of the ruling class, pedagogical short-comings, marital mistakes and the decline of rationality. Some of the prints have anticlerical themes. Goya described the series as depicting \"the innumerable foibles and follies to be found in any civilized society, and from the common prejudices and deceitful practices which custom, ignorance or self-interest have made usual\".\n\nThe work was an enlightened, tour-de-force critique of 18th-century Spain, and humanity in general. The informal style, as well as the depiction of contemporary society found in \"Caprichos\", makes them (and Goya himself) a precursor to the modernist movement almost a century later. \"The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters\" in particular has attained an iconic status.\n\nGoya added brief explanations of each image to a manuscript, now in the Museo del Prado; these help greatly to explain his often cryptic intentions, as do the titles printed below each image.\n\nGoya's series, and the last group of prints in his series \"The Disasters of War\", which he called \"caprichos enfáticos\" (\"emphatic caprices\"), are far from the spirit of light-hearted fantasy the term \"caprice\" usually suggests in art.\n\n\"Los caprichos\" were withdrawn from public sale very shortly after their release in 1799, after only 27 copies of the set had been purchased. In 1803, Goya offered the \"Caprichos\"' copper plates and the first edition's unsold sets to King Charles IV. Later in life, Goya wrote that he had felt it prudent to withdraw the prints from circulation due to the Inquisition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "812231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=812231", "title": "Morgan Earp", "text": "Morgan Earp\n\nMorgan Seth Earp (April 24, 1851 – March 18, 1882) was a Tombstone, Arizona Special Policeman when he helped his brothers Virgil and Wyatt and Doc Holliday confront the outlaw Cochise County Cowboys in the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral on October 26, 1881. All three Earp brothers had been the target of repeated death threats made by the Cowboys who were upset by the Earps' interference in their illegal activities. The lawmen killed Cowboys Tom and Frank McLaury and Billy Clanton. All four lawmen were charged with murder by Billy's older brother, Ike Clanton, who had run from the gunfight. During a month-long preliminary hearing, Judge Wells Spicer exonerated the men, concluding they had been performing their duty.\n\nFriends of the slain outlaws retaliated, and on December 29, Cowboys ambushed Virgil, leaving him maimed. Two and a half months later, on March 18, 1882, they ambushed Morgan, shooting him at night through the window of a door while he was playing billiards and killed him. The Cowboys suspected in both shootings were let off on technicalities or lack of evidence. Wyatt Earp felt he could not rely on the criminal justice system and decided to take matters into his own hands. He concluded the only way to get justice for his murdered brother was to avenge his death. Wyatt assembled a posse that included their brother Warren Earp and set out on a vendetta to kill those they felt were responsible.\n\nMorgan married Louisa Alice Houston sometime in the 1870s. They lived in Montana before joining his brothers in Tombstone. Louisa was staying with his parents in California when Morgan was murdered.\n\nMorgan Earp was born in Pella, Iowa, to Nicholas Porter Earp (1813–1907), a cooper and farmer, and his second wife Virginia Ann Cooksey (1821–1893).\n\nWhen elder brothers Newton, James, and Virgil went off to the American Civil War, they left their young teenage brothers Wyatt and Morgan to tend the family farm. James and Morgan grew up close, with a shared wish for adventure and a dislike of farming. Before adulthood, teen-aged Morgan followed James Earp to Montana for a couple of years. Later he was with Wyatt on the Western frontier.\n\nIn spring 1868, his father Nicholas Porter Earp and his siblings Ginnie, Warren, and Adelia returned to the mid-west and Lamar, Missouri, where Nick became the local constable. By November 17, 1869, Nick resigned to become Justice of the Peace. Wyatt, who had followed them to Missouri, was appointed constable in place of his father. In early 1870, Wyatt married Urilla Sutherland, but she died later that year shortly before she was due to have a baby. Shortly afterward, Wyatt, James, Virgil and Morgan got into what witnesses described as a “20-minute street fight” with Urilla’s brothers and other relatives over the alleged bootlegging activities of both families.\n\nSometime between 1871 and 1877 Morgan met Louisa Alice Houston, the daughter of H. Samuel Houston and Elizabeth Waughtal. Louisa (born January 24, 1855) was the second eldest of 12 children.\n\nIn 1875, Morgan left Wichita, Kansas and became a deputy marshal under Charlie Bassett at Dodge City.\n\nIn late 1877, Morgan and Louisa moved to Miles City, Montana, where they bought a home. Shortly after Wyatt and Virgil headed for Tombstone, Arizona, Morgan and Louisa sold their home in Montana and headed west. Morgan apparently didn't think the wild mining town of Tombstone was suitable for Louisa, who was a petite woman and suffered from rheumatoid arthritis. He took her instead to stay with his parents in Colton, California, in March 1880. Morgan set out to meet his older brothers in Tombstone on July 20, 1880. Louisa followed him in early December.\n\nIn 1878, the July 25 \"Daily Pioneer\" reported that Morgan had joined prospectors pursuing gold in the Bear Paw mountains on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation in northern Montana Territory, \"Mr. Morgan Earpt arrived last evening from the Tongue River, which he left about three weeks ago.\" General John Gibbon had brought troops to the Teton River to keep prospectors from being \"slaughtered by Indians.\" Morgan remained in Montana for an unknown amount of time. On December 16, 1879, he was selected as a policeman in Butte, Montana. A story has circulated that Morgan and Billy Brooks competed for the job of policeman. During a confrontation over the job, they got in a gunfight. Some accounts say Earp killed Brooks, and that Earp was wounded. But other accounts report that Brooks later died at the hands of a lynch mob, but no contemporary documentation of the shootout has been found. Morgan served for only three months, until March 10, 1880.\n\nAt different times in Arizona, both Wyatt and Morgan worked as shotgun messengers for Wells Fargo & Co., deputy sheriffs for Pima County, and as deputies under Tombstone's town Marshal, Virgil Earp, their older brother. During December 1881, Wyatt was appointed by U.S. Marshal Crawley Drake to the federal position of deputy U.S. marshal after Virgil was wounded and Morgan was a field-commissioned deputy for Wyatt.\n\nMorgan gained a modern reputation as a hot-tempered man, but this appears to be based on incidents described in the book \"The Earp Brothers of Tombstone\" purportedly written by Virgil Earp's wife Allie. However, the incidents in the book involving Morgan, like much else in the book, are almost certainly fabricated. From the rest of what is known of Morgan's life, he normally showed the same even temper and cool reactions to danger as did his brothers.\n\nOn Wednesday, October 26, 1881, the tension between the Earps and the Cowboys came to a head. Ike Clanton, Billy Claiborne, and other Cowboys had been threatening to kill the Earps for several weeks. Tombstone town Marshal Virgil Earp learned that the Cowboys were armed in violation of a city ordinance and had gathered near the O.K. Corral. Morgan was a deputy to his brother Virgil and on October 26, 1881, responded with Virgil and Wyatt to reports that Cowboys were armed on the streets of Tombstone. Ike Clanton had repeatedly threatened the Earps and he was backed up by Cowboys Tom McLaury, Frank McLaury, and Billy Clanton. Virgil asked Wyatt and Morgan and Doc Holliday to assist him, as he intended to disarm them. At approximately 3:00 p.m. the Earps headed towards Fremont Street where the Cowboys had been reported to be gathering.\n\nThey confronted five Cowboys on Fremont Street in an alley between the Harwood House and Fly's Boarding House and Photography Studio, the two parties were initially only about apart. Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne fled the gunfight. Tom and Frank McLaury, along with Billy Clanton, were killed. Morgan was clipped by a shot across his back that nicked both shoulder blades and a vertebra, although he was able to continue firing his weapon. Virgil was shot through the calf and Holliday was grazed by a bullet.\n\nTwo months after the gunfight at the O.K. Corral, in December 1881, Virgil Earp was seriously wounded in an assassination attempt that left him with a permanently crippled left arm. By February 1882, Morgan grew wary of the danger to the Earps in Tombstone and sent Louisa to live with his parents in Colton, California. Morgan remained in Tombstone to support his brothers.\n\nAt 10:50 p.m. on Saturday, March 18, 1882, after returning from a musical at Schieffelin Hall, Morgan was ambushed. He was playing a late round of billiards at the Campbell & Hatch Billiard Parlor against owner Bob Hatch. Dan Tipton, Sherman McMaster, and Wyatt watched, having received threats that same day.\n\nThe assailant shot Morgan through the upper half of a four-pane windowed door. The bottom two windows had been painted over. The door opened onto a dark alley that ran through the block between Allen and Fremont Streets. Morgan, about from the door, was struck by a bullet in the back which injured his spine then exited his front and entered the thigh of mining foreman George A. B. Berry. Another bullet lodged in the wall near the ceiling over Wyatt's head. Several men rushed into the alley but found the shooter had fled.\n\nAfter Morgan was shot, his brothers tried to help him stand, but Morgan said \"Don't, I can't stand it. This is the last game of pool I'll ever play.\" They moved him to the floor near the card room door. Dr. William Miller arrived first, followed by Drs. Matthews and George Goodfellow. They all examined Morgan. Goodfellow, who would earn recognition in the United States as the nation's leading expert at treating abdominal gunshot wounds, concluded that Morgan's wounds were fatal.\n\nGoodfellow described Morgan's wounds:\n\nIn the book \"\", author Stuart Lake wrote that Wyatt said that Morgan, before dying, whispered to Wyatt, \"I can't see a damned thing.\" Wyatt said that they had promised each other to report visions of the next world when at the point of death. They moved him to a lounge and Morgan's family—Wyatt, Virgil, and James, along with Allie and Bessie—gathered around him. Morgan's wife Louisa was in Colton with his parents, and Warren Earp was out of town. Morgan died less than an hour after he was shot.\n\nAfter his death, Morgan was laid out in a blue suit belonging to Doc Holliday. Wyatt learned that Frank Stilwell and others were waiting for them in Tucson, and assembled several deputies who guarded Virgil, Addie, and James. The Earps took Morgan's body by wagon the next day to Benson, where they hired a wagon to get to the New Mexico and Arizona railroad station in Contention. From Contention, they caught a train to Tucson. While waiting for the next train in Tucson, they saw Stilwell apparently lying in wait and killed him. From Tucson, James accompanied Virgil, Addie, and Morgan's body to Colton, California where Morgan's wife and parents were waiting. Morgan was first buried in the old city cemetery of Colton, near Mount Slover. When the cemetery was moved in 1892, Morgan's body was reburied in the Hermosa Cemetery in Colton.\n\nWhile Wyatt and James were traveling to Contention with Morgan's body, Coroner Dr. D. M. Mathew organized a Coroner's Jury to conduct an inquest into Morgan's death.\n\nWyatt Earp finally concluded that he could not rely on the court system for justice and decided to take matters into his own hands. He concluded that only way to deal with Virgil's shooters and Morgan's murderers was to find and kill the Cowboys he believed were responsible. He gathered a band of loyal men and deputized them. They rode out to find those responsible.\n\nWhile Wyatt was out of town, Pete Spence's wife, Marietta Duarte, was ready to talk to the Coroner's Jury. She had been abused by her husband and may have had motivation to implicate him. She testified that the day before, her husband and Indian Charlie were on the front porch, when they saw Morgan Earp walk by. She said Pete Spence told Indian Charlie; (Florentino Cruz) \"That's him; that's him,\" and the Indian walked ahead of Earp to get a good look at him. The night of the shooting, her husband was away. Around midnight, Indian Charlie and Frank Stilwell showed up, armed with pistols and carbines, and her husband arrived soon after with Freis (Frederick Bode) and a fifth unidentified man, all carrying rifles. They talked in low and excited tones. The next morning, her husband struck both her and her mother, and threatened to shoot Marietta if she told what she knew. Witnesses said they saw Frank Stilwell running from the scene.\n\nThe Coroner's jury concluded that Spence, Stilwell, Frederick Bode, and \"Indian Charlie\" were the prime suspects in Morgan Earp's death.\n\nWhen the prosecution called Marietta Duarte to testify at the preliminary hearing, the defense objected because her testimony was hearsay and because a spouse could not testify against her husband. The judge agreed and the charges were dismissed.\n\nUnknown to Wyatt, three of the Cowboys he sought were in Behan's jail. After the Coroner's Jury ended, Spence immediately turned himself in, protected in Behan's jail. On the day of the inquest, two of Behan's deputy sheriffs arrested two of the suspects for other reasons. Cochise County Deputy Sheriff William Bell brought Indian Charlie from Charleston and placed him under arrest in the Tombstone jail for shooting a man in Charleston. Separately, Cochise County Deputy Sheriff Frank Hereford arrested \"John Doe\" Freeze. They were all later released.\n\nWhile accompanying his brother Virgil to the rail head in Tucson, Wyatt spotted Frank Stilwell lying in wait. He was a suspect in Morgan's assassination. Wyatt and others pursued Stilwell and killed him. Earp then assembled and deputized a federal posse. They set out to track down others they believed responsible for shooting Virgil and killing Morgan. During the Earp Vendetta Ride, the federal posse looked for Pete Spence but found he was already in jail. They killed Florentino \"Indian Charlie\" Cruz, who had been identified by Pete Spence's wife as taking part in ambushing Virgil. They also accidentally came upon Curly Bill Brocius at a spring and Wyatt killed him with a single shotgun blast. Wyatt shot Johnny Barnes in the same gunfight and he died soon after.\n\nWyatt and his brothers were unable to apprehend or kill the other suspects in Morgan's death. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46176312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46176312", "title": "Neolithic ashmounds", "text": "Neolithic ashmounds\n\nNeolithic ashmounds (sometimes termed as cinder mounds) are man-made landscape features found in some parts of southern India (chiefly around Bellary) that have been dated to the Neolithic period (3000 to 1200 BC). They have been a puzzle for long and have been the subject of many conjectures and scientific studies. They are believed to be of ritual significance and produced by early pastoral and agricultural communities by the burning of dung and animal matter. More than a 100 ashmound sites have been identified and many have a low perimeter embankment and some have holes that may have held posts.\n\nThese ashmounds were traditionally given mythological explanations as the burnt remains of rakshasas described in epics like the \"Mahabharata\". A scientific explanation was first attempted by T. J. Newbold who sent notes on Būdigunta, one of the largest such mounds, to James Prinsep who published it in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1836. Newbold suggested that these were volcanic scoriae as the masses had a glassy surface and gave a hollow sound when struck. He was initially of the opinion that it appeared as if of volcanic origin although lacking any other evidence for it. He also pointed out that furnaces around the country did not produce such scoriae or slag. Newbold also pointed to Buchanan Hamilton's notes on the Rajmahal hills where he had described calcareous remains that the locals referred to as \"asurhar\" or giant's bones. Cavelly Venkata Lachmia (one of Colin Mackenzie's fellow researchers and president of the Madras Hindu Literary Society) wrote to Newbold that he had gathered theories these were remains of religious sacrifices made in the past or from funerals of past battles. Lachmia also pointed out that he had seen many other places around Mysore and many of these other places like Budihal and Buditippa had the prefix \"būdi\" referring to \"ash\". Budigunta near Bellary was said to be the largest and recorded as being 46 feet in height and 420 feet in circumference. Robert Sewell conjectured that the region was once densely forested and considered several possible explanations including furnaces. He also had the material examined and it was declared that it could not have come from furnaces or brick kilns. The burning of animal matter was considered as one possible source. He also pointed out that these could have been the result of large pyres where the wives of kings committed \"sati\".\n\nRobert Bruce Foote examined Budikanama in 1872 and suggested that these mounds were produced by burning dung and suggested a similarity to zaribas in Africa. Around the same time two amateur archaeologists dug a mound in Kupgal and found bones, pottery, stone axes and other artefacts. Allchin in 1963 made an analysis of all the theories and pointed out that rainfall was higher in the region during the Neolithic.\n\nArchaeological studies have continued into recent times. Some of the plant remains have been identified and millet cultivation may have been important. Two staple millets \"Brachiaria ramosa\" and \"Setaria verticillata\" which are not common in modern cultivation were found in several sites while the commonest legumes were \"Vigna radiata\" and \"Macrotyloma uniflorum\". The animal remains are mainly of cattle, buffalo and pig (whether wild or domesticated, is not easy to determine).\n"}
{"id": "544738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544738", "title": "Ojibwe language", "text": "Ojibwe language\n\nOjibwe , also known as Ojibwa ,<ref name=\"ISO 639-2/RA\"></ref><ref name=\"ISO 639-3/RA\"></ref> Ojibway, Chippewa, or Otchipwe, is an indigenous language of North America of the Algonquian language family. The language is characterized by a series of dialects that have local names and frequently local writing systems. There is no single dialect that is considered the most prestigious or most prominent, and no standard writing system that covers all dialects.\n\nDialects of Ojibwemowin are spoken in Canada, from southwestern Quebec, through Ontario, Manitoba and parts of Saskatchewan, with outlying communities in Alberta; and in the United States, from Michigan to Wisconsin and Minnesota, with a number of communities in North Dakota and Montana, as well as groups that removed to Kansas and Oklahoma during the Indian Removal period. While there is some variation in the classification of its dialects, at least the following are recognized, from east to west: Algonquin, Eastern Ojibwe, Ottawa (Odawa), Western Ojibwe (Saulteaux), Oji-Cree (Severn Ojibwe), Northwestern Ojibwe, and Southwestern Ojibwe (Chippewa). Based upon contemporary field research, J. R. Valentine also recognizes several other dialects: Berens Ojibwe in northwestern Ontario, which he distinguishes from Northwestern Ojibwe; North of (Lake) Superior; and Nipissing. The latter two cover approximately the same territory as Central Ojibwa, which he does not recognize.\n\nThe aggregated dialects of Ojibwemowin comprise the second most commonly spoken First Nations language in Canada (after Cree), and the fourth most widely spoken in the United States or Canada behind Navajo, the Inuit languages and Cree.\n\nOjibwemowin is a relatively healthy indigenous language. The Waadookodaading Ojibwe Language Immersion School teaches all classes to children in Ojibwe only.\n\nThe Algonquian language family of which Ojibwemowin is a member is itself a member of the Algic language family, other Algic languages being Wiyot and Yurok. Ojibwe is sometimes described as a Central Algonquian language, along with Fox, Cree, Menominee, Miami-Illinois, Potawatomi, and Shawnee. Central Algonquian is a geographical term of convenience rather than a genetic subgroup, and its use does not indicate that the Central languages are more closely related to each other than to the other Algonquian languages.\n\nThe most general Indigenous designation for the language is \"Anishinaabemowin\" 'speaking the native language' (\"Anishinaabe\" 'native person,' verb suffix \"–mo\" 'speak a language,' suffix \"–win\" 'nominalizer'), with varying spellings and pronunciations depending upon dialect. Some speakers use the term \"Ojibwemowin\". The general term in Oji-Cree (Severn Ojibwe) is \"Anihshininiimowin\", although \"Anishinaabemowin\" is widely recognized by Severn speakers. Some speakers of Saulteaux Ojibwe refer to their language as \"Nakawemowin\". The Ottawa dialect is sometimes referred to as \"Daawaamwin,\" although the general designation is \"Nishnaabemwin\", with the latter term also applied to \"Jibwemwin\" or Eastern Ojibwe. Other local terms are listed in Ojibwe dialects. English terms include \"Ojibwe,\" with variants including \"Ojibwa\" and \"Ojibway\". The related term \"Chippewa\" is more commonly employed in the United States and in southwestern Ontario among descendants of Ojibwe migrants from the United States.\n\nOjibwe and Potawatomi are frequently viewed as being more closely related to each other than to other Algonquian languages. Ojibwe and Potawatomi have been proposed as likely candidates for forming a genetic subgroup within Proto-Algonquian, although the required research to ascertain the linguistic history and status of a hypothetical \"Ojibwe–Potawatomi\" subgroup has not yet been undertaken. A discussion of Algonquian family subgroups indicates that \"Ojibwe–Potawatomi is another possibility that awaits investigation.\" In a proposed consensus classification of Algonquian languages, Goddard (1996) classifies Ojibwa and Potawatomi as \"Ojibwayan,\" although no supporting evidence is adduced.\n\nThe Central languages share a significant number of common features. These features can generally attributed to diffusion of features through borrowing: \"Extensive lexical, phonological, and perhaps grammatical borrowing—the diffusion of elements and features across language boundaries—appears to have been the major factor in giving the languages in the area of the Upper Great Lakes their generally similar cast, and it has not been possible to find any shared innovations substantial enough to require the postulation of a genetically distinct Central Algonquian subgroup.\"\n\nThe possibility that the proposed genetic subgrouping of Ojibwa and Potawatomi can also be accounted for as diffusion has also been raised: \"The putative Ojibwa–Potawatomi subgroup is similarly open to question, but cannot be evaluated without more information on Potawatomi dialects.\"\n\nOjibwe communities are found in Canada from southwestern Quebec, through Ontario, southern Manitoba and parts of southern Saskatchewan; and in the United States from northern Michigan through northern Wisconsin and northern Minnesota, with a number of communities in northern North Dakota and northern Montana. Groups of speakers of the Ottawa dialect migrated to Kansas and Oklahoma during the historical period, with a small amount of linguistic documentation of the language in Oklahoma. The presence of Ojibwe in British Columbia has been noted.\n\nCurrent census data indicate that all varieties of Ojibwe are spoken by approximately 56,531 people. This figure reflects census data from the 2000 United States census and the 2006 Canadian census. The Ojibwe language is reported as spoken by a total of 8,791 people in the United States of which 7,355 are Native Americans and by as many as 47,740 in Canada, making it one of the largest Algic languages by numbers of speakers.\n\nThe Red Lake, White Earth, and Leech Lake reservations are known for their tradition of singing hymns in the Ojibwe language. As of 2011, Ojibwe is the official language of Red Lake.\n\nBecause the dialects of Ojibwe are at least partly mutually intelligible, Ojibwe is usually considered to be a single language with a number of dialects, i.e. Ojibwe is \"... conventionally regarded as a single language consisting of a continuum of dialectal varieties since ... every dialect is at least partly intelligible to the speakers of the neighboring dialects.\" The degree of mutually intelligibility between nonadjacent dialects varies considerably; recent research has shown that there is strong differentiation between the Ottawa dialect spoken in southern Ontario and northern Michigan; the Severn Ojibwa dialect spoken in northern Ontario and Manitoba; and the Algonquin dialect spoken in southwestern Quebec. Valentine notes that isolation is the most plausible explanation for the distinctive linguistic features found in these three dialects. Many communities adjacent to these relatively sharply differentiated dialects show a mix of transitional features, reflecting overlap with other nearby dialects. While each of these dialects has undergone innovations that make them distinctive, their status as part of the Ojibwe language complex is not in dispute. The relatively low degrees of mutual intelligibility between some nonadjacent Ojibwe dialects led Rhodes and Todd to suggest that Ojibwe should be analyzed as a linguistic subgroup consisting of several languages.\n\nWhile there is some variation in the classification of Ojibwe dialects, at a minimum the following are recognized, proceeding west to east: Western Ojibwe (Saulteaux), Southwestern Ojibwe (Chippewa), Northwestern Ojibwe, Severn Ojibwe (Oji-Cree), Ottawa (Odawa), Eastern Ojibwe, and Algonquin. Based upon contemporary field research, Valentine also recognizes several other dialects: Berens Ojibwe in northwestern Ontario, which he distinguishes from Northwestern Ojibwe; North of (Lake) Superior; and Nipissing. The latter two cover approximately the same territory as Central Ojibwa, which he does not recognize.\n\nTwo recent analyses of the relationships between the Ojibwe dialects are in agreement on the assignment of the strongly differentiated Ottawa dialect to a separate subgroup, and the assignment of Severn Ojibwe and Algonquin to another subgroup, and differ primarily with respect to the relationships between the less strongly differentiated dialects. Rhodes and Todd recognize several different dialectal subgroupings within Ojibwe: (a) Ottawa; (b) Severn and Algonquian; (c) a third subgroup which is further divided into (i) a subgrouping of Northwestern Ojibwe and Saulteaux, and a subgrouping consisting of Eastern Ojibwe and a further subgrouping comprising Southwestern Ojibwe and Central Ojibwe. Valentine has proposed that Ojibwe dialects are divided into three groups: a northern tier consisting of Severn Ojibwe and Algonquin; a southern tier consisting of \"Odawa, Chippewa, Eastern Ojibwe, the Ojibwe of the Border Lakes region between Minnesota and Ontario, and Saulteaux; and third, a transitional zone between these two polar groups, in which there is a mixture of northern and southern features.\"\n\nSeveral different Ojibwe dialects have functioned as \"lingua franca\" or trade languages in the circum-Great Lakes area, particularly in interactions with speakers of other Algonquian languages. Documentation of such usage dates from the 18th and 19th centuries, but earlier use is likely, with reports as early as 1703 suggesting that Ojibwe was used by different groups from the Gulf of Saint Lawrence to Lake Winnipeg, and from as far south as Ohio to Hudson Bay.\n\nA trade language is \"... a language customarily used for communication between speakers of different languages, even though it may be that neither speaker has the trade language as his dominant language ...\" although \"... there is a relatively high degree of bilingualism involving the trade language.\"\n\nDocumentation from the 17th century indicates that the Wyandot language (also called Huron), one of the Iroquoian languages, was also used as a trade language east of the Great Lakes by speakers of the Nipissing and Algonquin dialects of Ojibwe, and also by other groups south of the Great Lakes, including the Winnebago and by a group of unknown affiliation identified only as \"Assistaeronon.\" The political decline of the Hurons in the 18th century and the ascendancy of Ojibwe-speaking groups including the Ottawa led to the replacement of Huron as a \"lingua franca\".\n\nIn the area east of Georgian Bay, the Nipissing dialect was a trade language. In the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, the eastern end of the Upper Peninsula, the area between Lake Erie and Lake Huron, and along the north shore of Georgian Bay, the Ottawa dialect served as a trade language. In the area south of Lake Superior and west of Lake Michigan Southwestern Ojibwe was the trade language. A widespread pattern of asymmetrical bilingualism is found in the area south of the Great Lakes, in which speakers of Potawatomi or Menominee, both Algonquian languages, could also speak Ojibwe, but Ojibwe speakers did not speak the other languages. It is known that some speakers of Menominee also speak Ojibwe, and that this pattern persisted into the 20th century. Similarly bilingualism in Ojibwe is still common among Potawatomis who speak Potawatomi.\n\nReports from traders and travellers as early as 1744 indicated that speakers of Menominee, another Algonquian language, used Ojibwe as a \"lingua franca\". Other reports from the 18th century and early 19th century indicate that speakers of the unrelated Siouan language Ho-Chunk (Winnebago) also used Ojibwe when dealing with Europeans and others. Other reports indicate that agents of the American government at Green Bay, Wisconsin spoke Ojibwe in their interactions with Menominee, with other reports indicating that \"... the Chippewa, Menominee, Ottawa, Potawatomi, Sac, and Fox tribes used Ojibwe in intertribal communication ...\" Some reports indicate that further to the west speakers of non-Algonquian languages such as Ho-Chunk (Winnebago), Iowa, and Pawnee spoke Ojibwe as an 'acquired language.'\n\nMichif is a mixed language that primarily is based upon French and Plains Cree, with some vocabulary from Ojibwe, in addition to phonological influence in Michif-speaking communities where there is a significant Ojibwe influence. In locations such as Turtle Mountain, North Dakota individuals of Ojibwe ancestry now speak Michif and Ojibwe.\n\nOjibwe borrowings have been noted in Menominee, a related Algonquian language.\n\nBungi Creole is the name given to an English Based Creole language spoken in Manitoba by the descendants of \"English, Scottish, and Orkney fur traders and their Cree or Saulteaux wives ...\". Bungee incorporates elements of Cree; the name may be from the Ojibwe word \"bangii\" \"a little bit\" or the Cree equivalent but whether there is any other Ojibwe component in Bungee is not documented.\n\nAll dialects of Ojibwe generally have an inventory of seventeen consonants. Most dialects have the segment glottal stop in their inventory of consonant phonemes; Severn Ojibwe and the Algonquin dialect have in its place. Some dialects have both segments phonetically, but only one is present in phonological representations. The Ottawa and Southwestern Ojibwe (Chippewa) have in a small number of affective vocabulary items in addition to regular . Some dialects may have otherwise non-occurring sounds such as in loanwords.\n\nObstruent consonants are divided into lenis and fortis sets, with these features having varying phonological analyses and phonetic realizations cross-dialectally. In some dialects, such as Severn Ojibwe, members of the fortis set are realized as a sequence of /h/ followed by a single segment drawn from the set of lenis consonants: . Algonquin Ojibwe is reported as distinguishing fortis and lenis consonants on the basis of voicing, with fortis being voiceless and lenis being voiced. In other dialects fortis consonants are realized as having greater duration than the corresponding lenis consonant, invariably voiceless, 'vigorously articulated,' and aspirated in certain environments. In some practical orthographies such as the widely used Double Vowel system, fortis consonants are written with voiceless symbols: \"p, t, k, ch, s, sh\".\n\nLenis consonants have normal duration; are typically voiced intervocalically, although they may be devoiced at the end or beginning of a word; are less vigorously articulated than fortis consonants; and are invariably unaspirated. In the Double Vowel practical orthography, lenis consonants are written with voiced symbols: \"b, d, g, j, z, zh\".\n\nAll dialects of Ojibwe have two nasal consonants and ; one labialized velar approximant ; one palatal approximant ; and one of glottal stop or .\n\nAll dialects of Ojibwe have seven oral vowels. Vowel length is phonologically contrastive, hence phonemic. Although the long and short vowels are phonetically distinguished by vowel quality, recognition of vowel length in phonological representations is required, as the distinction between long and short vowels is essential for the operation of the metrical rule of vowel syncope that characterizes the Ottawa and Eastern Ojibwe dialects, as well as for the rules that determine word stress. There are three short vowels, ; and three corresponding long vowels, , in addition to a fourth long vowel , which lacks a corresponding short vowel. The short vowel /i/ typically has phonetic values centring on ; typically has values centring on ; and typically has values centring on . Long is pronounced for many speakers, and is for many .\nOjibwe has nasal vowels; some arise predictably by rule in all analyses, and other long nasal vowels are of uncertain phonological status. The latter have been analysed both as underlying phonemes, and also as predictable, that is derived by the operation of phonological rules from sequences of a long vowel followed by /n/ and another segment, typically /j/.\n\nPlacement of word stress is determined by metrical rules that define a characteristic iambic metrical foot, in which a weak syllable is followed by a strong syllable. A Foot consists of a minimum of one syllable, and a maximum of two syllables, with each Foot containing a maximum of one Strong syllable. The structure of the metrical Foot defines the domain for relative prominence, in which a Strong syllable is assigned stress because it is more prominent than the weak member of the Foot. Typically, the Strong syllable in the antepenultimate Foot is assigned the primary stress. Strong syllables that do not receive main stress are assigned at least secondary stress. In some dialects, metrically Weak (unstressed) vowels at the beginning of a word are frequently lost; in the Ottawa and Eastern Ojibwe dialects all metrically Weak vowels are deleted. For example, \"bemisemagak(in)\" (airplane(s), in the Southwestern Ojibwe dialect) is stressed as [\"be · mse · mgak\" /ˈbɛːmɪˌseːmʌˌgak/] in the singular but as [\"be · mse · mga · kin\" /ˌbeːmɪˈsɛːmʌˌgaˌkin/] in the plural. In some other dialects, metrically Weak (unstressed) vowels, especially \"a\" and \"i\", are reduced to a schwa and depending on the writer, may be transcribed as \"i\", \"e\" or \"a\". For example, \"anami'egiizhigad\" [\"na · m'e · gii · zhgad\" /əˌnaməˈʔɛːˌgiːʒəˌgad/] (Sunday, literally \"prayer day\") may be transcribed as \"anama'egiizhigad\" in those dialects.\n\nThe general grammatical characteristics of Ojibwe are shared across its dialects. The Ojibwe language is polysynthetic, exhibits characteristics of synthesis and a high morpheme-to-word ratio. Ojibwe is a head-marking language in which inflectional morphology on nouns and particularly verbs carries significant amounts of grammatical information.\n\nWord classes include nouns, verbs, grammatical particles, pronouns, preverbs, and prenouns. Preferred word orders in a simple transitive sentence are verb-initial, such as V(erb)–O(bject)–S(ubject) and VSO. While verb-final orders are dispreferred, all logically possible orders are attested.\n\nComplex inflectional and derivational morphology play a central role in Ojibwe grammar. Noun inflection and particularly verb inflection indicate a wide variety of grammatical information, realized through the use of prefixes and suffixes added to word stems. Grammatical characteristics include the following:\n\nThere is a distinction between two different types of third person, the \"proximate\" (the third person deemed more important or in-focus) and the \"obviative\" (the third person deemed less important or out-of-focus). Nouns can be singular or plural, and one of two genders, animate or inanimate. Separate personal pronouns exist, but are usually used for emphasis; they distinguish inclusive and exclusive first person plurals.\n\nVerbs constitute the most complex word class. Verbs are inflected for one of three \"orders\" (\"indicative\", the default; \"conjunct\", used for participles and in subordinate clauses; and \"imperative\", used with commands), as negative or affirmative, and for the person, number, animacy, and proximate/obviative status of both the subject and object, as well as for several different \"modes\" (including the \"dubitative\" and \"preterit\") and tenses.\n\nAlthough it does contain a few loans from English (e.g. \"gaapii\", \"coffee,\" ) and French (e.g. \"mooshwe\", \"handkerchief\" (from \"mouchoir\"), \"ni-tii\", \"tea\" (from \"le thé\", \"the tea\")), in general, the Ojibwe language is notable for its relative lack of borrowing from other languages. Instead, speakers far prefer to create words for new concepts from existing vocabulary. For example in Minnesota \"Ojibwemowin\", \"airplane\" is \"bemisemagak\", literally \"thing that flies\" (from \"bimisemagad\", \"to fly\"), and \"battery\" is \"ishkode-makakoons\", literally \"little fire-box\" (from \"ishkode\", \"fire,\" and \"makak\", \"box\"). Even \"coffee\" is called \"makade-mashkikiwaaboo\" (\"black liquid-medicine\") by many speakers, rather than \"gaapii\". These new words vary from region to region, and occasionally from community to community. For example, in Northwest Ontario \"Ojibwemowin\", \"airplane\" is \"ombaasijigan\", literally \"device that gets uplifted by the wind\" (from \"ombaasin\", \"to be uplifted by the wind\") as opposed to the Minnesota's \"bemisemagak\".\n\nLike any language dialects spanning vast regions, some words that may have had identical meaning at one time have evolved to have different meanings today. For example, \"zhooniyaans\" (literally \"small[-amount of] money\" and used to refer to coins) specifically means \"dime\" (10-cent piece) in the United States, but a \"quarter\" (25-cent piece) in Canada, or \"desabiwin\" (literally \"thing to sit upon\") means \"couch\" or \"chair\" in Canada, but is used to specifically mean a \"saddle\" in the United States.\n\nCases like \"battery\" and \"coffee\" also demonstrate the often great difference between the literal meanings of the individual morphemes in a word, and the overall meaning of the entire word.\n\nBelow are some examples of common Ojibwe words.\nShort List of VAIs:\n\"onjibaa\" = he/she comes\n\"izhaa\" = he/she goes\n\"maajaa\" = he/she departs\n\"bakade\" = he/she is hungry\n\"mino'endamo\" = he/she is glad\n\"zhaaganaashimo\" = he/she speaks English\n\"biindige\" = he/she comes in\n\"ojibwemo\" = he/she speaks Ojibwe\n\"boogidi\" = he/she flatulates\n\"boogide\" = he/she has flatulence\n\"aadizooke\" = he/she tells a story\n\"wiisini\" = he/she is eating\n\"minikwe\" = he/she drinks\n\"bimose\" = he/she walks\n\"bangishin\" = he/she falls\n\"dagoshin\" = he/she is arriving\n\"giiwe\" = he/she goes home\n\"jiibaakwe\" = he/she cooks\n\"zagaswe\" = he/she smokes\n\"nibaa\" = he/she sleeps\n\"giigoonyike\" = he/she is fishing (lit. he/she makes fish)\n\"gashkendamo\" = he/she is sad\n\"bimaadizi\" = he/she lives\n\"gaasikanaabaagawe\" = he/she is thirsty\nShort List of Nouns:\n\"naboob\" = soup\n\"ikwe\" = woman\n\"inini\" = man\n\"ikwezens\" = girl\n\"gwiiwizens\" = boy\n\"mitig\" = tree\n\"asemaa\" = tobacco\n\"opwaagan\" = pipe\n\"mandaamin\" = corn\n\"miskwi\" = blood\n\"doodoosh\" = breast\n\"doodooshaaboo\" = milk\n\"doodooshaaboo-bimide\" = butter\n\"doodooshaaboowi-miijim\" = cheese \n\"manoomin\" = wild rice\n\"omanoominiig\" = Menomonee peoples\n\"giigoonh\" = fish\n\"miskwimin\" = raspberry\n\"gekek\" = hawk\n\"gookooko'oo\" = owl\n\"migizi\" = bald eagle\n\"giniw\" = golden eagle\n\"bemaadizid\" = person\n\"bemaadizijig\" = people\n\"makizin\" = moccasin, shoe\n\"wiigiwaam\" = wigwam, house\n\nThere is no standard writing system used for all Ojibwe dialects. Local alphabets have been developed by adapting the Latin script, usually based on English or French orthography. A syllabic writing system not related to English or French writing is used by some Ojibwe speakers in northern Ontario and Manitoba. Great Lakes Algonquian syllabics are based on the French alphabet with letters organized into syllables. It was primarily used by speakers of Fox, Potawatomi, and Winnebago, but there is indirect evidence of use by speakers of Southwestern Ojibwe.\n\nA widely used Roman character-based writing system is the Double Vowel system devised by Charles Fiero. Although there is no standard orthography, the Double Vowel system is used by many Ojibwe language teachers because of its ease of use. A wide range of materials have been published in this system, including a grammar, dictionaries, collections of texts, and pedagogical grammars. In northern Ontario and Manitoba, Ojibwe is most commonly written using the Cree syllabary, a syllabary originally developed by Methodist missionary James Evans around 1840 in order to write Cree. The syllabic system is based in part on Evans' knowledge of Pitman's shorthand and his prior experience developing a distinctive alphabetic writing system for Ojibwe in southern Ontario.\n\nThe double vowel system uses three short vowels, four long vowels, and eighteen consonants, represented with the following Roman letters:\na aa b ch d e g ' h i ii j k m n o oo p s sh t w y z zh\nDialects typically either have or (the orthographic in most versions) but rarely both.\nThis system is called \"double vowel\" because the long vowel correspondences to the short vowels , and are written with a doubled value. In this system, the nasal \"ny\" as a final element is instead written . The allowable consonant clusters are , , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\nThe sample text, from the Southwestern Ojibwe dialect, is taken, with permission, from the first four lines of \"Niizh Ikwewag\" (Two Women), a story told by Earl Nyholm, on Professor Brian Donovan of Bemidji State University's webpage.\n\n\n\nAbbreviations:\n\nNotable speakers of Anishinaabemowin include:\n\nAn \"Ojibway Language and People\" app is available for iPhone, iPad, and other iOS devices. The source code is available for others interested in developing their own application for learning a native language.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69619", "title": "Perga", "text": "Perga\n\nPerga or Perge ( \"Perge\", ) was an ancient Anatolian city in modern Turkey, once the capital of Pamphylia Secunda, now in Antalya province on the southwestern Mediterranean coast of Turkey. Today, it is a large site of ancient ruins east of Antalya on the coastal plain. An acropolis located there dates back to the Bronze Age.\n\nPerga was an ancient and important city of Pamphylia, between the rivers Catarrhactes and Cestrus (Turkish Aksu Çayı).\n\nA treaty between the Hittite Great King Tudhaliya IV and his vassal, the king of Tarhuntassa, defined the latter's western border at the city \"Parha\" and the \"Kastaraya River\". The river is assumed to be the classical Cestrus. West of Parha were the \"Lukka Lands\". Parha likely spoke a late Luwian dialect like Lycian and that of the neo-Hittite kingdoms.\n\nPerge returns to history as a Pamphylian Greek city, and with Pamphylia came under successive rule by Persians, Athenians, and Persians again. Alexander the Great, after quitting Phaselis, occupied Perge with a part of his army. The road between these two towns is described as long and difficult. Alexander's rule was followed by the Diadochi empire of the Seleucids, then the Romans.\n\nPerge gained renown for the worship of Artemis, whose temple stood on a hill outside the town, and in whose honour annual festivals were celebrated. The coins of Perge represent both the goddess and her temple.\n\nIn 46 A.D., according to the Acts of the Apostles, St. Paul journeyed to Perga, from there continued on to Antiocheia in Pisidia, then returned to Perga where he preached the word of God (Acts 14:25). Then he left the city and went to Attaleia.\n\nAs the Cestrus silted up over the late Roman era, Perga declined as a secular city. In the first half of the 4th century, during the reign of Constantine the Great (324-337), Perga became an important centre of Christianity, which soon became the official religion of the Roman Empire. The city retained its status as a Christian centre in the 5th and 6th centuries.\n\nSt. Paul the Apostle and his, companion St. Barnabas, twice visited Perga as recorded in the biblical book, the Acts of the Apostles, during their first missionary journey, where they \"preached the word\" before heading for and sailing from Attalia (modern-day Antalya city), to the southwest, to Antioch.\n\nPaul and Barnabas came to Perge during their first missionary journey, but probably stayed there only a short time, and do not seem to have preached there; it was there that John Mark left Paul to return to Jerusalem. On his return from Pisidia, Paul preached at Perge.\n\nSt. Matrona of Perge of the 6th century was a female saint known for temporarily cross-dressing to avoid her abusive husband. She also is known for opposing the Monophysite policy of the emperor Anastasios I. Matrona hid in the monastery of St. Bassion as the enuch Babylos. Once revealed, she was sent to a woman’s monastery where she was head of the convent. She was famous for her miraculous gift of healing. She went on to found a nunnery in Constantinople. St Matrona died at the age of 100. Her life was told through a \"vita prima\" whose author and exact time period remains a mystery.\n\nThe Greek \"Notitiae episcopatuum\" mentions the city as metropolis of Pamphylia Secunda until the 13th century. Le Quien gives the names of 11 of its bishops: Epidaurus, present at the Council of Ancyra in 312; Callicles at the First Council of Nicaea in 325; Berenianus, at Constantinople (426); Epiphanius at the Second Council of Ephesus (449), at the First Council of Chalcedon (451), and a signatory of the letter from the bishops of the province to Emperor Leo (458); Hilarianus, at a council at Constantinople in 536; Eulogius, at the Second Council of Constantinople in 553; Apergius, condemned as a Monothelite at the Third Council of Constantinople in 680; John, at the Trullan council in 692; Sisinnius Pastillas about 754 (an iconoclast who was condemned at the Second Council of Nicaea in 787); Constans, at the same council of that condemned his predecessor; John, at the Council of Constantinople of 869–70.\n\nNo longer a residential, the bishopric is included in the Catholic Church's list of titular sees.\n\nPerga remained inhabited until the foundation of the Seljuk Empire, roughly 1000 CE.\n\n\nPerga is today an archaeological site and a tourist attraction. There were numerous excavations and discoveries since 1946.\nAncient Perge, one of the chief cities of Pamphylia, was situated between the Rivers Catarrhactes (Düden Nehri) and Cestrus (Aksu), 60 stadia (about ) from the mouth of the latter; the site is in the modern Turkish village of Murtana on the Suridjik sou, a tributary of the Cestrus, formerly in the Ottoman vilayet of Konya. Its ruins include a theatre, a palaestra, a temple of Artemis and two churches. \nThe temple of Artemis was located outside the town. Many of the coins struck in the city portrayed both the goddess and her sanctuary.\n\nAnother big ancient city in the area is Selge, Pisidia, located about 20km to the northeast.\n\nThe Perge has been dubbed as “Turkey’s second Zeugma” for the alluring appearance of the mosaics that have been unearthed so far. In 2003, archaeologists discovered well-preserved Greek mosaics showcasing Oceanus and Medusa. In 2017, discovered a mosaic depicting the sacrifice of Iphigenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "28891805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28891805", "title": "Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear", "text": "Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear\n\nThe Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear was a gathering that took place on October 30, 2010, at the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The rally was led by Jon Stewart, host of the satirical news program \"The Daily Show\", and Stephen Colbert, in-character as a conservative political pundit. About 215,000 people attended the rally, according to aerial photography analysis by AirPhotosLive.com for \"CBS News\".\n\nThe rally was a combination of what initially were announced as separate events: Stewart's \"Rally to Restore Sanity\" and Colbert's counterpart, the \"March to Keep Fear Alive.\" Its stated purpose was to provide a venue for attendees to be heard above what Stewart described as the more vocal and extreme 15–20% of Americans who \"control the conversation\" of American politics, the argument being that these extremes demonize each other and engage in counterproductive actions, with a return to sanity intended to promote reasoned discussion. Despite Stewart's insistence to the contrary, news reports cast the rally as a spoof of Glenn Beck's Restoring Honor rally and Al Sharpton's Reclaim the Dream rally.\n\nOn August 28, 2010, the Fox News Channel's Glenn Beck held a \"Restoring Honor\" rally at the Lincoln Memorial. On the same day, Al Sharpton led a countermarch, called Reclaim the Dream, to mark the 47th anniversary of the historic Great March on Washington. According to \"New York Magazine\", discussion for a satirical public event in response took place behind the scenes at Stewart's \"The Daily Show\" as early as August 12. Stewart has stated that the rally was never intended to be a means to counter Glenn Beck, but was simply another format for his and Colbert's style of humor, saying \"We saw [the Restoring Honor rally] and thought, 'What a beautiful outline. What a beautiful structure to fill with what we want to express in live form, festival form.'\" Before any public discussion by Stewart, Colbert, or their staffs, members of the social news website Reddit independently began to discuss the possibility of a Colbert-led rally, often referred to as a \"Restoring Truthiness Rally\". After the rallies were announced, some news articles credited Reddit for the idea. The rally was produced by Stewart's Busboy Productions.\n\nStewart first hinted at the event on the September 7 episode of \"The Daily Show\" by declaring that \"[he would] have an announcement sometime in the near to not so near future.\" Colbert, in that night's episode of \"The Report,\" said that he, too, had an announcement to make. In the following days, Stewart and Colbert used their shows to hype their respective announcements, competing over whose would be more significant. The banter finally culminated with Stewart formally announcing the \"Rally to Restore Sanity\" on the September 16, 2010 episode of \"The Daily Show\"; Colbert followed by announcing the \"March to Keep Fear Alive\" on the subsequent episode of \"The Colbert Report.\"\n\nStewart declared that his rally was intended for the majority of Americans, \"the 70–80 percenters,\" who do not hold extreme political views and lack a voice in the media. To illustrate the point, he unveiled a mock motto for the rally: \"Take it down a notch for America.\" A series of protest sign designs were proposed on the \"Daily Show\" featuring messages such as \"I disagree with you, but I'm pretty sure you're not Hitler.\" Colbert responded to Stewart's proposal by challenging the theme of Stewart's rally and justifying his own \"March to Keep Fear Alive.\" Noting that this was not the time to be reasonable, Colbert declared, \"Now is the time for all good men to freak out for freedom!\"\n\nOprah Winfrey appeared on \"The Daily Show\" via video on October 14, 2010, to award the attending audience free airfare to the rally. The plane tickets were hidden under the audience members' seats in the same fashion as she has given away prizes to her own audience members on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". In the episode of the \"Colbert Report\" airing immediately afterward, Stephen Colbert also offered tickets to his rally. Without Oprah's support to provide airfare, Colbert instead distributed vouchers for the low-cost Chinatown bus from New York City to Washington, D.C. During the show, Colbert also revealed to Stewart that he did not possess a permit to legally organize the \"March to Keep Fear Alive,\" leading Stewart to propose combining the two events into the \"Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear\" that would feature a new combined logo.\nIn the night following the announcement, the pledged number of attendees to the event reached 69,000 on Facebook. This number far exceeded the 25,000 that the rally organizers had indicated as the estimated number of attendees on the National Park Service application for a rally permit. The demand for hotels during the period of the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear outpaced that of the \"Restoring Honor\" rally. The rally spawned several grassroots websites and Facebook groups for organizing and discussion, some with more than 10,000 followers. Proposals were made for dozens of sister rallies in other major cities, such as Seattle, Chicago, Austin, and Los Angeles to take place on the same day as the demonstration in Washington, D.C. On September 28, Arianna Huffington announced on \"The Daily Show\" that \"The Huffington Post\" would provide \"as many buses as people to fill them\" at a specified meeting place in Manhattan, although her plans were later scaled back and preregistration was imposed.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" characterized the Rally as a \"send-up\" of the Washington Restoring Honor rally led by Glenn Beck and the \"Reclaim the Dream\" commemorative march led by Al Sharpton on August 28, 2010. The Canadian Press called the Stewart/Colbert rallies a \"not-so-gentle\" swipe at Glenn Beck's \"Restoring Honor\" rally. During a town hall event on September 29, President Obama cited the forthcoming rally as representing those people who are concerned with more than just the political beliefs of others, in contrast to \"provocative\" cable news programs.\n\nMany news organizations sought media credentials to cover the rally. Anticipating staff interest in attending for non-professional purposes, NPR barred staffers from attending the rally in a memo that stated: \"NPR journalists may not participate in marches and rallies involving causes or issues that NPR covers, nor should they sign petitions or otherwise lend their name to such causes, or contribute money to them. This restriction applies to the upcoming Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert rallies.\" NBC and several other media outlets followed suit. Some barred employees from attending the rally outright, while others such as \"The Washington Post\" offered more latitude, telling newsroom managers to differentiate between \"participating\" and \"observing.\"\n\nPrior to the announcement of the joint rally, supporters of the movement for a Colbert-led march had begun a drive to raise money for educational charities through DonorsChoose.org, a charitable organization of which Colbert is a member of the Board of Directors. In the first 24 hours, supporters raised over $100,000. In the days that followed, that total increased to over $250,000, and by the day of the rally over $500,000 had been contributed. Jon Stewart promoted the Trust for the National Mall, urging his viewers to make donations on behalf of the rally. As of October 31, 2010, over $188,000 had been donated to the Trust.\n\nAs the number of expected participants grew, the rally was moved from the grounds of the Washington Monument to the east end of the Mall facing the Capitol. The stage was on the east side of the rally with an open back, allowing the Capitol building to provide the backdrop for the performances. In order to meet the public safety requirements of the National Park Service permit, the Mall between the Capitol and 14th Street was divided into sections, with access aisles lined by portable fences. Speakers and jumbotron television screens were placed along both the north and south edges to encourage the crowd to spread out rather than press against the main stage.\n\nPortable toilets and first aid stations were also provided. Because the rally was held the day before the previously scheduled Marine Corps Marathon, the rally planners originally requested to share the portable toilets planned for the marathon runners. The marathon organizers refused, so a second set of portable toilets was ordered. \n\nWhile both Colbert and Stewart were tight-lipped as to the event's schedule and guests, Metromix's Washington DC website published a tentative schedule on October 27, with guest performers said to be confirmed for the event including musicians Sheryl Crow, The Roots and Jeff Tweedy with Mavis Staples along with actors Don Novello (appearing as Father Guido Sarducci) and Sam Waterston. Other guests included 4troops, Yusuf Islam – formerly known as Cat Stevens, Ozzy Osbourne, The O'Jays, John Legend, Kid Rock, Tony Bennett, \"Mythbusters\" hosts Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman, basketball player Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, and R2-D2.\n\nSatirical comedy was woven throughout the rally with Colbert expressing, in parody, that fear was superior to Stewart's reasonableness. The theme started with Colbert—costumed like Evel Knievel—emerging from his \"fear bunker\" in a capsule reminiscent of the 2010 Chilean miners' rescue. Thereafter, Colbert challenged Stewart point by point, usually claiming victory.\n\nOne of their battles was waged over three songs about trains. Stewart started with Yusuf Islam singing \"Peace Train,\" which was interrupted continually by Colbert-backed Ozzy Osbourne singing \"Crazy Train.\" The audience held up peace signs for \"Peace Train\" and horn signs for \"Crazy Train.\" Finally, Stewart and Colbert compromised singing \"Love Train\" with The O'Jays.\n\nLater, Stewart and Colbert donned matching American flag coats and sang an original song \"The Greatest, Strongest Country in the World\" with lyrics that reflected common liberal and conservative stereotypes, such as \"I love NASCAR halftime shows with tons of TNT. ... My hybrid electric scooter does 100 m-p-g. From gay men who like football ... to straight men who like \"Glee\"...\"\n\nIn the finale, a giant papier-mâché puppet of Colbert (\"Fearzilla\") was brought on stage to symbolize his superiority. Peter Pan—played by John Oliver—then appeared and led the crowd in a chant that caused Colbert and his puppet to melt into the stage, thereby handing final victory to Stewart.\n\nStewart gave out \"Medals of Reasonableness\" cast in bronze with an image of an owl and the Latin motto \"Sit vis nobiscum,\" liberally translated by Stewart as \"May the Force be with you,\" to:\n\nColbert awarded \"Medals of Fear\" cast with an image of a naked man running with scissors and the Latin motto \"Cave ne cadmium sit,\" which Colbert translated as \"Warning: May contain Cadmium,\" to:\n\nZuckerberg's award was presented \"in absentia.\" The media outlets' award was accepted on their behalf by \"someone with more courage—a seven-year-old girl.\" Also, videotaped messages were shown of Steven Slater, known from the 2010 JetBlue flight attendant incident, and reality TV star Teresa Giudice, both apologizing for public acts of \"unreasonableness.\"\n\nAfter defeating Colbert's \"Fearzilla\", Stewart closed the rally with a \"moment... for some sincerity\" to explain his intentions for the rally:\n\nHe criticized the role the press plays in polarizing political debates, stating that the media—which he described as \"the country's 24-hour politico–pundit perpetual panic 'conflict-inator'\"—only amplifies problems and no longer makes a distinction between \"hav[ing] animus\" and \"be[ing] enemies.\" He warned that demonizing opponents and accepting propaganda makes people \"less safe, not more\" and that \"it is an insult, not only to those people, but to the racists themselves who have put in the exhausting effort it takes to hate.\"\n\nMuch of the speech was devoted to the idea that \"[m]ost Americans don't live their lives solely as Democrats, Republicans, liberals or conservatives.\" He spoke on the subject of \"reasonable compromises\" that happen \"every day\" between persons of different beliefs, citing as an example traffic merging at the entrance to the Holland Tunnel connecting New York City and Jersey City.\n\nAn aerial photography analysis commissioned by \"CBS News\" and carried out by AirPhotosLive.com estimated the crowd at 215,000 people, plus or minus 10%. In comparison, their estimate for the Restoring Honor rally made using the same methods was 87,000 people, plus or minus 9,000. \"USA Today\", \"Voice of America\" and \"ABC News\" all referred to the crowd as tens of thousands of people, with Voice of America noting, \"the crowd filled the Mall, from almost in front of the Capitol to the Washington Monument.\"\n\nAccording to local news outlet TBD TV, \"Massive turnout for Saturday's rally quickly overwhelmed the Mall, forcing thousands of people into nearby streets and, eventually, just giving up and leaving.\" The PA system was criticized for being inadequate for those farther back to hear, with the crowd chanting \"louder\" several times. Jon Stewart, speaking from the stage, jokingly said there were over 10 million people there, and Stephen Colbert satirically tweeted an estimate of 6 billion.\n\nThe Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, which maintained its normal Saturday service schedule, announced that Metrorail ridership set a Saturday record of 825,437 trips, as compared to about 350,000 on a normal Saturday, and beating out the previous record set in 1991 of 786,358 trips during the Desert Storm National Victory Celebration. The record would last more than 6 six years, until it was broken by the 2017 Women's March.\n\nThe rally was broadcast live on Comedy Central and C-SPAN. The Comedy Central live broadcast reportedly drew 2,000,000 total viewers, with an additional 570,000 live video streams on the Internet.\n\nKeith Olbermann was prominently featured in a video montage shown at the rally that focused on the anger present in cable news. Two days after the rally, he decided to suspend his \"Worst Person in the World\" segment on \"Countdown with Keith Olbermann\" in the interest of turning down the volume and anger. However, he defended the content of his show by claiming that MSNBC (the network that hosted \"Countdown\" at the time) differs from Fox News in that \"sticking up for the powerless is not the moral equivalent of sticking up for the powerful.\" After tallying an online vote among his viewers, Olbermann announced that the segment would return on the November 17 broadcast as the \"Not Really Worst Persons in the World.\"\n\nOn \"Real Time with Bill Maher,\" Bill Maher criticized the rally, saying that while Stewart and Colbert meant well, the message of the rally promoted a false equivalency between the left and the right, noting, \"the big mistake of modern media has been this notion of balance for balance's sake. That the Left is just as violent and cruel as the Right...there's a difference between a mad man and a madman.\"\n\nOn November 11, Stewart appeared on \"The Rachel Maddow Show\" and clarified the message he intended to convey at the rally: that too many have \"bought into the idea that the conflict [in America] is left versus right\" when the conflict is actually \"corruption versus not-corruption\" and that \"both sides have their ways of shutting down debate.\"\n\nSeveral websites, such as The Huffington Post, dedicated a page to collecting \"the funniest signs from the rally.\"\n\nThe rally was nominated for four Daytime Emmy Awards:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46182005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46182005", "title": "Rania Antonopoulos", "text": "Rania Antonopoulos\n\nOurania \"Rania\" Antonopoulou (; born 17 December 1960) is a Greek heterodox economist and Syriza politician. After the January 2015 election, MP Alexis Tsipras named as the \nGreek Alternate Minister for Combating Unemployment in his cabinet. She remains a Syriza member. On the 5th of September 2018 she was appointed by the Greek Government as the Permanent Representative of Greece (Ambassador) to the OECD in Paris, France, entrusting her to represent the country despite the severe media attack she had been subjected to a few months earlier. Between February and August 2015, she also was a member of the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nA former macroeconomic policy adviser for UN Women and consultant UNDP and the ILO, she is specialized in macroeconomic gender issues and job creation in extreme unemployment economic environments. She is Associate Professor of Economics at New York Bard College and a senior scholar of the Levy Economics Institute where she is involved with the Modern Monetary Theory school of post-Keynesian economics.\n\nA co-initiator of the \"Economists for Full Employment\" project, she has been a long-time supporter of a job guarantee with the state being employer of last resort. Following a successful 2011 pilot project, she has been appointed Alternate Minister for Combatting Unemployment in the Syriza-led Tsipras Government. In her ministerial office, she is specifically tasked with implementing a nationwide program to combat long-term unemployment by creating at least 300,000 new jobs for the unemployed.\n\nWhen in 1997 Antonopoulou received her Ph.D. economics from the New School for Social Research, she had already been teaching economics at New York University and in the same year was awarded the university's \"Teaching Excellence Award\". At New York University she taught Economics, a post she would hold until 2006.\n\nWorking in the fields of feminist economics, international trade, and the economics of globalization, Antonopoulou served as macroeconomic policy adviser for UN Women, and as advising consultant for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Labour Office (ILO). In 2002, she became co-director of the \"Knowledge Networking Program on Engendering Macroeconomics and International Economics\" (GEM-IWG) and co-founded \"GEM-Europe\" and \"GEM-Turkey\".\n\nPrior to her involvement in politics, Antonopoulou served as Associate Professor of Economics at Bard College she has been affiliated with since 2001. She is also a senior scholar with the associated Levy Economics Institute and director of the \"Gender Equality and the Economy\" program. In the last years she has further specialized in linkages of gender and macro economics, in the macroeconomic impact of job guarantee policies, and in the implications of unpaid work on poverty indicators.\n\nIn line with her heterodox policy oriented research, she continued working on her concept of a \"Job guarantee\" which she has been developing at the Levy Institute of Bard College since 2006. This concept turns the state into an Employer of last resort that issues publicly funded jobs at minimum wage level to everybody unable to find a job in the private sector. When job opportunities are scarce, it is argued, public policy must ensure that the institutional means of implementation of the RIGHT TO WORK, that is, of Article 23.1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are in place. The huge rise of unemployment following the Greek government-debt crisis and the austerity measures imposed by the Troika led the PASOK-led Ministry of Labour into giving the concept a chance. In 2012, a first pilot program was rolled out for 55,000 unemployed.\n\nWhen in the January 2015 elections, Antonopoulou was elected a Member of the Hellenic Parliament on Syriza's state list, new Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras appointed her Alternate Minister for Combatting Unemployment. Her portfolio also included the strengthening of the Social and Solidarity Economy sector of the economy and she is credited with the enactment of the SSE law which was voted in parliament in October 2016. Antonopoulou is the second Modern Monetary Theory scholar to assume a high-profile post in a government, following her former colleague at Bard College, Stephanie Kelton, who earlier in January was appointed Chief Economist of the U.S. Senate Budget Committee.\n\nIn her ministerial office, Antonopoulou is specifically tasked with implementing a nationwide \"Job guarantee\" program to combat long-term unemployment, creating at least 300,000 new jobs for the unemployed. The program has been described both by herself and by others as being a centerpiece of a \"Greek New Deal\" as proposed by the Syriza government.\n\nOutlined in a Levy Institute policy paper from October 2014, the program will be built on the experience of the 2012 pilot project and won't be restricted to reskilling some of the unemployed for the private sector. The program, with precedents only in the Indian Rural Employment Guarantee, is rather set to create publicly funded long-term jobs to allow the unemployed fulfilling socially needed tasks at a minimum wage level. In a February 2015 interview with \"Deutsche Welle\", Antonopoulos pointed out that \"the main problem in Greece is lack of aggregate demand and consequent lack of jobs, not lack of skills.\" Results of the 2012 pilot project suggested that some 500,000 of the totaling 1.3 million unemployed in Greece would be willing to take up such a minimum-wage level job.\n\nPrior to her arrival in Athens to join the Greek Government's cabinet in September 2015, Antonopoulou lived in New York City since 1977, and is married to her colleague at Bard College, Greek American economist Dimitri B. Papadimitriou.\nIn February 2018, it become public that she had been receiving a rent subsidy of 12.000 Euro each year. Despite the fact that there was no issue of legality ever raised, and, although several other cabinet members of the Syriza administration had been receiving the same subsidy benefit, her media character assassination was based on the argument that she was 'rich and did not need it'. It has wrongfully been reported in the international press that PM Tsipras dismissed her. She resigned on her own will, as the domestic media power proved unstoppable in diverting the attention of the public away of the Novartis scandal by focusing on the legal yet 'unethical' choice, a Syriza cabinet member had made. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3528193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528193", "title": "Rethinking \"Gnosticism\"", "text": "Rethinking \"Gnosticism\"\n\nRethinking \"Gnosticism\": An Argument for Dismantling a Dubious Category, is a 1996 book by Michael Allen Williams.\n\nThis is one of the first critical works that goes about comparing the established academic definitions of gnosticism to the texts discovered at Nag Hammadi. The main points of the book are that there is no established definition of \"gnosticism\" by people who use the term, let alone the academic world; and that the groups referred to as \"gnostic\" by the Christian Church apologists referred to themselves often by their leader or leaders' names but no group referred to themselves as \"gnostic\" or \"gnostics\".\n\nAlso, Williams mentions the argument that none of the groups labeled \"gnostic\" shared a common set of beliefs that put them in a group together. The only things close to this would be the Christian heresiographical use of referring to these varied groups as \"gnostics\". As well as the varied set of interruptions of the creator of the material world (Yahweh or demiurge) by these early groups. Finally Williams clarifies that the ancient \"gnosticism\" of the Nag Hammadi groups and the misused \"gnosticism\" of moderns groups and academia have little if anything in common. Williams suggests a better and more adequate term for these heretical groups would be \"biblical demiurgical traditions\".\n"}
{"id": "2994894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994894", "title": "Semantic translation", "text": "Semantic translation\n\nSemantic translation is the process of using semantic information to aid in the translation of data in one representation or data model to another representation or data model. Semantic translation takes advantage of semantics that associate meaning with individual data elements in one dictionary to create an equivalent meaning in a second system.\n\nAn example of semantic translation is the conversion of XML data from one data model to a second data model using formal ontologies for each system such as the Web Ontology Language (OWL). This is frequently required by intelligent agents that wish to perform searches on remote computer systems that use different data models to store their data elements. The process of allowing a single user to search multiple systems with a single search request is also known as federated search.\n\nSemantic translation should be differentiated from data mapping tools that do simple one-to-one translation of data from one system to another without actually associating meaning with each data element.\n\nSemantic translation requires that data elements in the source and destination systems have \"semantic mappings\" to a central registry or registries of data elements. The simplest mapping is of course where there is equivalence.\nThere are three types of Semantic equivalence:\n\n\nSemantic translation is very difficult if the terms in a particular data model do not have direct one-to-one mappings to data elements in a foreign data model. In that situation an alternative approach must be used to find mappings from the original data to the foreign data elements. This problem can be alleviated by centralized metadata registries that use the ISO-11179 standards such as the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM).\n\n"}
{"id": "29567205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29567205", "title": "Sharp Scale", "text": "Sharp Scale\n\nThe Sharp Scale was devised by Henrietta Sharp Cockrell as an objective and scientific way to measure the opacity of paper, particularly of manuscript folios, 'in the field' without specialized equipment. A practical application of the technique could be done in a museum or library setting. \nTo apply the method, the folio is first held at a distance of 15 cm from a 60 watt light source (such as an unshaded table lamp). A dowel (or pencil) is held behind and against it, creating a silhouette. Folios are then added until the outline of the pencil is no longer visible. The number of the folios needed to obscure the silhouette of the pencil is recorded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30352093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30352093", "title": "Sierra Ancha Cliff Dwellings", "text": "Sierra Ancha Cliff Dwellings\n\nThe Sierra Ancha Cliff Dwellings are a series of Pre-Columbian native American cliff-dwellings located in the Sierra Ancha Wilderness. They were built between 1280 and 1350 by the Salado people. The Sierra Ancha is home to several prominent ruin sites known as the Devil's Chasm Fortress, the Canyon Creek Ruins, the Pueblo Canyon Ruins, the Cold Springs Canyon Ruins, and the Cooper Forks Canyon Ruins. Collectively they have been called the Cherry Creek Ruins.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2279853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279853", "title": "Sknyatino", "text": "Sknyatino\n\nSknyatino () is a village in Kalyazinsky District of Tver Oblast, Russia, situated at the confluence of the Nerl and the Volga Rivers, about halfway between Uglich and Tver. It is the site of the medieval town of Ksnyatin, founded by Yuri Dolgoruki in 1134 and named after his son Constantine.\nKsnyatin was intended as a fortress to defend the Nerl waterway, leading to Yuri's residence at Pereslavl-Zalessky, against Novgorodians. The latter sacked it on several occasions, before the Mongols virtually annihilated the settlement in 1239. After that, it belonged to the princes of Tver and was devastated by their enemies in 1288. By the 14th century, the neighbouring towns of Kalyazin and Kashin superseded it in importance. Since 1459, Ksnyatin has been documented as a village. Its kremlin area and cathedral were flooded in 1939, when they created the Uglich Reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "49644459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644459", "title": "The V Girls", "text": "The V Girls\n\nThe V-Girls was a feminist performance art group that was active from 1986 to 1996.\n\nThe V-Girls were composed of Martha Baer, Jessica Chalmers, Erin Cramer, Marianne Weems and Andrea Fraser. The group was initially formed as a study group in order to meet-up and read feminist psychoanalytic theory, but soon morphed into discussions of their own art and scholarship.\n\nThe V-Girls were influenced by feminist inquiry in relation to institutions, such as universities. Feminist discussions regarding power relations, the status of women, and canon development lead to the need for ways of challenging normalised phallocentric ideas.\n\nThe five women would sit at a long table in order to form a discussion panel. Four of them would be dressed in suits with thickly framed glasses, symbols of traditional power and intellect. The fifth would act as the discussion's mediator and usually be dressed more casually, indicating a symbolic separation of social status. The panel would provide a comedic critique of various professional discourses within the spaces in which they originated, such as conferences, universities, art galleries and museums.\n\nThe V-Girls first performance was titled \"Sex and Your Holiday Season\" and was performed in 1987 at Four Walls gallery in New Jersey.\n\n\"Academic in the Alps: In Search of the Swiss Miss(s)\" took place in 1988 at the University of Massachusetts.\n\n\"The Question of Manet's Olympia: Posed and Skirted\" was first performed in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "2633270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633270", "title": "Thirteen Days (book)", "text": "Thirteen Days (book)\n\nThirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis is Robert F. Kennedy's account of the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. The book was released in 1969, a year after his assassination.\n\n\"Thirteen Days\" describes the meetings held by the Executive Committee (ExComm), the team assembled by US President John F. Kennedy to handle the tense situation that developed between the United States and the Soviet Union following the discovery of Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba, from Florida. Robert Kennedy, who was the US Attorney General at the time, describes his brother John's leadership style during the crisis as involved, but not controlling. Robert Kennedy viewed the military leaders on the council sympathetically, and recognized that their lifelong concentration on war was difficult to set aside.\n\nThe book was used as the basis for the 1974 television play \"The Missiles of October\". In 2000, the theatrical film \"Thirteen Days\" was produced using the same title, but based on an entirely different book, \"The Kennedy Tapes: Inside the White House During the Cuban Missile Crisis\" by Ernest May and Philip Zelikow. That book contained some information that Kennedy was not able to reveal because it was classified at the time.\n"}
{"id": "28818758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28818758", "title": "Tikal Temple II", "text": "Tikal Temple II\n\nTikal Temple II (or the Temple of the Masks, alternatively labelled by archaeologists as Tikal Structure 5D-2) is a Mesoamerican pyramid at the Maya archaeological site of Tikal in the Petén Department of northern Guatemala. The temple was built in the Late Classic Period in a style reminiscent of the Early Classic. Temple II is located on the west side of the Great Plaza, opposite Temple I. Temple II was built by the king Jasaw Chan K'awiil I in honour of his wife, Lady Kalajuun Une' Mo'. Temple II had a single wooden sculpted lintel that bears the portrait of a royal woman who may have been the wife of Jasaw Chan K'awiil I, who was entombed beneath Temple I. Lady Kalajuun Une' Mo', whose name means \"Twelve Macaw Tails\", was also important for being the mother of Jasaw Chan K'awill I's heir. In fact her son Yik'in Chan K'awiil oversaw the completion of Temple II when he became king.\n\nTemple II was visited by Modesto Méndez, the governor of Petén, in 1848 on the first expedition to the ruins. Preliminary excavations of Temple II started in 1958. On 21 December 2012, more than 7,000 tourists visited Tikal to celebrate the 2012 phenomenon and the supposed end of the world. Many of these tourists climbed the stairs of the pyramid, causing reported damages.\n\nThe pyramid is a squat, massive structure dating to the 8th century AD. Today it stands high and is the most thoroughly restored of the major temples at Tikal. Its original height would have been closer to including its roof comb. The main stairway is wide and projects from the pyramid base. The base of the pyramid measures , covering a surface area of . Excavations inside Temple II failed to discover Lady Kalajuun Une' Mo's tomb. Ancient graffiti within the temple shrine depicts a captive upon a platform and bound between two poles being sacrificed with an arrow or a spear. Further ancient graffiti includes images of temples. Some of this graffiti dates to the Classic Period, although other examples appear to date to the Early Postclassic. The interior walls have also been defaced with modern graffiti. Evidence of ritual use in the Postclassic Period was found within the temple shrine, including burials and offerings.\nThe pyramid rises in three stepped levels; upon the uppermost level is a wide platform supporting the summit shrine. The first level measures high, the second is high and the third level stands high, giving an average height of . The total height of the pyramidal base is , the summit shrine measures high and the roof comb . Two badly eroded giant masks adorn the upper platform, flanking the stairway to the shrine. These grotesque masks decorating the pyramid's facade give Temple II its alternative name of the Temple of the Masks. A large block of masonry was built into the stairway immediately outside the entrance to the shrine. this block may have served as an observation platform allowing the officiating priests to see the crowd in the plaza below and in turn be seen by the people there.\n\nThe roof comb of the temple is highly ornate and bears the sculpture of a face with circular earspools. Various sealed chambers exist within the roof comb.\n\nThe temple shrine upon the summit of the pyramid contains three chambers, the doorways of which were spanned by lintels. Only the lintel over the middle doorway was carved. The lintel consisted of five wooden beams, one of which is now in the American Museum of Natural History in New York. When excavated the lintels had fallen from their original positions and have been restored.\n\nAt the base of the main access stairway stands Stela P-83, which was plain, without sculpted decoration or hieroglyphic texts. The stela stands high and was broken but has been restored. It is associated with its respective altar. The distance from the base of the main stairway of Temple II, across the plaza to the base of the stairway of Temple I directly opposite is .\n\n"}
{"id": "44338087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44338087", "title": "Tulum Stela 1", "text": "Tulum Stela 1\n\nTulum Stela 1 is the name of a Mayan engraved monolith that was found at the ancient Mesoamerican site of Tulum in Mexico. Known for its important inscription, the stela was purchased by the British Museum in 1924.\n\nThe large stone stela portrays in low relief a standing Maya lord in full regalia, with a long inscription in Mayan hieroglyphs framing the image. The headdress is that of K'awiil, the skirt that of the Tonsured Maize God. The pillar was badly damaged when discovered and is missing parts of the base. The condition of the extant carving has also faded through water erosion. The long inscription includes a date that corresponds to 564 AD, based on the Mayan system of recording time.\n\nStela 1 was found by John Lloyd Stephens and Frederick Catherwood during their exploration of the Yucatán peninsular in the early nineteenth century. It was discovered near the 'Temple of the Initial Series' which lies to the south of the main castle at Tulum. This temple was named after Stela 1 as its Mayan inscription has the earliest recorded date in Tulum. Archaeologists estimate that most of Tulum is Post-Classic and that the city was largely built after 900 AD. As this stela predates this phase, it has been conjectured that it was moved from a neighbouring Maya city, perhaps Coba. The stela was subsequently owned by the British archaeologist Thomas Gann, who sold it to the British Museum in 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "737731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=737731", "title": "Vatroslav Jagić", "text": "Vatroslav Jagić\n\nVatroslav Jagić (; July 6, 1838 – August 5, 1923) was a prominent Croatian scholar of Slavic studies in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nJagić was born in Varaždin (then known by its German name of \"Warasdin\"), where he attended the elementary school and is the place where he started his secondary-school education. He finished that level of education at the Gymnasium in Zagreb. Having a particular interest in philology, he moved to Vienna, where he was lectured in Slavic studies under the guidance of Franc Miklošič. He continued his studies and defended his doctoral dissertation \"Das Leben der Wurzel 'dê in Croatischen Sprachen\" in Leipzig (Germany) in 1871.\n\nUpon finishing his studies, Jagić returned to Zagreb, where from 1860 to 1870 he held the position of professor at a Croatian high school.\n\nIn 1869, Jagić was elected a full member of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts (now named the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts), and a correspondent member of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Saint Petersburg. Next year, 1871, he became a professor of Slavic studies at Odessa University (Novorossiysk University) and worked also in Berlin, where he moved in 1874 to become the very first professor of Slavic studies at the prestigious Friedrich Wilhelm University of Berlin. Jagić held this post until 1880, when he moved again and became teacher at the University of St Petersburg.\n\nIn 1886, he returned to Vienna, where his studies started to be a replacement for retiring former lecturer Miklošič at the University of Vienna. Here he taught, did research, and published until his own retirement in 1908.\n\nJagić died in Vienna but was laid to rest in his native Varaždin.\n\nWorks on literature and language written by Jagić started to be published for the first time in the reports of the high school where he worked. In 1863, with his fellow researchers Josip Torbar and Franjo Rački he launched the journal \"Književnik\". In this journal, he published several articles regarding the problematic of the grammar, syntax, as well that one of history of the language used by Croats. His works were noticed within the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts (JAZU), founded in Croatia in 1866. His works and polemics were mainly related to verbs, paleography, vocalization of the language, folk poetry, and its sources. At that time he also started publishing a collection of the works written by old Croatian writers.\n\nIn Berlin, he started publishing the \"Archiv für slavische Philologie\" (Archive for Slavic Philology), and kept editing it for 45 years. The periodical focused the attention of scholars and the general public on the Slavs, increasing their interest in Slavic languages and their culture. It also confirmed the importance of Slavic studies, its methodology, and its validity as a scholarly discipline.\n\nWhile in Vienna, his intention was to write an encyclopedia related to the philology of the Slavs. This idea caused him to write \"Istorija slavjanskoj filologii\" (\"History of Slavic philology\"). This book was published in St. Petersburg in 1910 and contains the retrospective on the development of Slavic studies from the beginning to the end of the 19th century.\n\nJagić's work is impressive in scope and quality: Croatian linguist Josip Hamm has remarked that Jagić's collected works would, put together, number more than 100 volumes of large format.\n\nAmong his most famous students were the Polish Slavic specialist Aleksander Brückner and the Ukrainian poet and scholar Ivan Franko.\n\nHe was very interested in Old Church Slavic, and he concluded and proved that it did not originate in the central plains of Pannonia, as most experts claimed, but in southern Macedonia. Jagić was interested in the life and work of Juraj Križanić (1618–1683), a Dominican priest that had shown considerable interest in Pan-Slavism and cooperation between Catholicism and Orthodoxy.\n\n"}
{"id": "42567154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42567154", "title": "Wadi Jilat", "text": "Wadi Jilat\n\nWadi Jilat is a seasonal stream (\"wadi\") in the Badia of eastern Jordan. Part of its course runs through a steeply-incised ravine that retains water for much of the year, an unusual feature in the desert region.\n\nThe area is known for its archaeological significance, including a still-functioning dammed reservoir that may date back as far as the Nabataean period, and thirty two prehistoric sites discovered by Andrew Garrard in the 1970s–80s.\n\nWadi el Jilat 7, an early Neolithic archeological site southwest of Azraq in modern-day Jordan. The earliest domesticated grains of einkorn wheat known to humanity were found at this site and radiocarbon dated to 9500–9200 BP (approx. 7500–7200 BC).\n"}
