{"id": "6772266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6772266", "title": "ABC Stores (Hawaii)", "text": "ABC Stores (Hawaii)\n\nABC Stores is a chain of convenience stores based in Honolulu owned by MNS Ltd. The chain operates 73 stores, 57 of which are located in the state of Hawaii, with the remaining locations in the Mariana Islands and Las Vegas. The company now generates more than $230 million in annual profits and employs over 1500 staff, and is described as the 37th largest company in Hawaii.\n\nThe company also has 7 stores operating under the Island Deli brand, with a focus on groceries and fresh foods. In 2017 they opened a restaurant and food hall known as the Dukes Lane Eatery in Waikiki.\n\nThe stores sell convenience items such as groceries, as well as tourist items and souvenirs. The chain's best-selling items are tourist-oriented products such as Macadamia nuts, sunscreen and sunglasses. \n\nThe chain was started by Sidney Kosasa, who opened his first store in Waikiki in 1964. The stores were originally named \"Mister K.\" Later, in order to make the store name easier to remember, the name of the stores were changed to \"ABC Stores.\" The last Mister K was changed to ABC in 2009.\n\nThe son of a first generation Japanese immigrant, Sidney Kosasa (or rather ‘Mr. K’- known by his ABC Stores ‘Ohana’ or family) was born in Palolo Valley, Hawaii in December 1919. His first experiences in retail began while working in his parents’ grocery store in Palolo.\n\nIn 1949, Mr. and Mrs. K. opened their first pharmacy/convenience store in Kaimuki, Hawaii – known later as Thrifty Drugs. As business grew, his entrepreneurial and business philosophies resulted in the opening of four locations within 10 years. While attending a business convention in Miami Beach, Florida, Mr. K noticed all the tourists near the large hotels and had a vision to build a chain of resort stores in Hawaii. The first ABC Store was opened on Kalakaua Avenue in Waikiki, Hawaii in 1964.\n\nThe stores are now ubiquitous in the tourist-oriented Waikiki neighborhood. There are 35 store locations within a one-mile radius of Waikiki alone and consequently many of these sit in close proximity to one another. The intersection of Kalakaua and Seaside Avenue alone has four ABC Stores. Many retail analysts believe this is an attempt to block other convenience stores from entering the Waikiki market and thus prevent competition.\n\nIn total, there are 37 stores on O'ahu, 12 on Maui, five on The Big Island and three on Kauai.\n\nThere are eight stores in Las Vegas, currently the franchise's only mainland location.\n\nThere are also ten stores in the Mariana Islands, eight in Guam (in Tumon) and two in Saipan (in Garapan).\n\n"}
{"id": "45561255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45561255", "title": "Abu Dhabi Global Market", "text": "Abu Dhabi Global Market\n\nAbu Dhabi Global Market (ADGM) is an international financial centre located on Al Maryah Island in the heart of the UAE's capital city, Abu Dhabi.\n\nADGM has three independent authorities – The Financial Services Regulator, The Registration Bureau and The Courts.\n\nIn January 2015, the Abu Dhabi Global Market announced it has renamed “Sowwah Square” as “Abu Dhabi Global Market Square (ADGM Square)”.\n\nAl Maryah Island is central to the Abu Dhabi government's long-term development plans for the emirate. This 114 hectare island is a financial free zone, designated the jurisdiction of Abu Dhabi Global Market and a financial free zone by Cabinet Resolution Number 15 of 2013. The island will include financial, commercial, leisure, entertainment and residential developments and facilities designed to meet Abu Dhabi’s long-term development and economic ambitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53050638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53050638", "title": "Alex Algard", "text": "Alex Algard\n\nAlex Algard is an Internet entrepreneur. He is the founder and former CEO of CarDomain, the founder and former CEO of Whitepages.com, and the founder and current CEO of Hiya.\n\nIn 1975, Algard was born in Stockholm, Sweden. His father was Swedish and his mother was Korean. As a teenager, Algard moved to Canada.\n\nAlgard has a BA degree in Economics (1996) and a MS degree in Engineering (1998) from Stanford University.\n\nIn 1998, Algard and Simon Han co-founded CarDomain, an online community for auto enthusiasts to share information about cars.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006, Algard left his position as CEO of Whitepages in order to focus his attention on CarDomain. He remained CEO of CarDomain until 2012, when he sold the company to Source Interlink Media, a company that owns a number of other car-oriented publications. (Source Interlink was subsequently renamed .)\n\nAlgard founded Whitepages in 1996 after purchasing the domain name for $900. He began the business by developing an online database of phone numbers. The website began to generate significant revenue through advertisements, hitting $66 million a year by 2008.\n\nIn 2005, two venture capital firms invested $45 million in the company. In 2013, Algard bought out the investors for $80 million, citing a desire for the company to be free of pressure from outside investors. In 2016, he stepped down as CEO of Whitepages to run Hiya full-time.\n\nWhitepages provides fraud screening and identity verification for businesses, as well as public record background checks and directory services for consumers.\n\nIn April 2016, Whitepages spun out its caller ID and spam-blocking service into a separate company, Hiya, of which Algard is the CEO. The service provides consumers insight into who is behind the numbers that are calling them and also protects against unwanted spam and scam calls.\n\nIn August 2016, Hiya entered into a contract with Samsung to integrate its caller ID and spam protection services into Galaxy S7 phones. That same month, the company announced the launch of Hiya Cloud, a network based solution designed to help wireless carriers protect consumers from unwanted robocalls. Hiya also provides caller ID and call blocking services for AT&T and T-Mobile Name ID.\n\nWhen he was a teenager, his family moved to Vancouver, B.C. He is married.\n\n"}
{"id": "12290745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12290745", "title": "Antonio Z. Atienza Jr.", "text": "Antonio Z. Atienza Jr.\n\nAntonio Z. Atienza Jr. (born August 30, 1959) is a Filipino jeweler. As a manufacturer, exporter, and retailer of fine jewelry products, he is the owner of Goldenas Jewelry, Inc. He is a member of the Guild of Philippine Jewelers, Inc. The Guild's mission as a national organization is to promote the transformation and growth of the Philippine jewelry industry.\n\nAtienza, Jr.'s Goldenas metamorphosed from Boy Atienza Jewel Art, a jewelry contracting shop, which started in 1982. With 3 employees, it has now under its employ a total of 80 craftsmen and personnel. It now sells jewelry made of gold and set with diamonds, pearls, and other semi-precious stones. Atienza, Jr.'s Goldenhills Jewelry showcases his Goldenas, Inc. since 1982. Goldenhills Jewelry opened its first store on June 30, 2004 at the 2nd Floor of The Jewellery, Greenhills Shopping Center, and at present, has a total of 6 branches.\nIn December 2006, “Pakpak”, a half-necklace representing the wings of an eagle, intricately crafted by Goldenas, Inc., won the top spot of the All Precious Metals Category of the Guild of Philippine Jewellers’ Jewelry Design Competition. It received another award for the interpretation of a capiz necklace entitled, “Sensuality”, a winning design in the Chic Category of the Philippine Design Competition sponsored by the Meycauayan Jewelry Association on November 17, 2006. The Bulacan Chamber of Commerce and Industry awarded Atienza Jr. as Most Outstanding Bulacan Businessman in the Jewelry Industry on December 1, 2006.\n\nIn November 2005, Goldenas garnered two awards during the Fifth Philippine Fine Jewelry Design Competition at the Metro Comedy Bar in Quezon City. The design competition is an annual event organized by the Meycauayan Jewelry Industry Association, Inc. (MJIAI) in partnership with the Product Development and Design Center of the Philippines (Design Center).\n\n\"Eternal Love\" was the top placer for the Wedding Category. Marie Liza DJ Cayana, the designer, works for Goldenas Jewelry, sponsor of the prototype. Christina Maris J. Juan of the University of Santo Tomas submitted the winning design for the Chic category with her \"Down to Earth\" entry. The necklace, according to Christina, is something you can take from work to play. Goldenas Jewelry also created the prototype. Goldenas, as a Philexport member, joined the Buy Pinoy goes to San Francisco from November 15 to 20, 2005 at the Philippine Center, 447 Sutter St.\n\nIn 2012, Antonio Z. Atienza Jr. (1979 Accounting) was named one of the Outstanding Alumni - Diamond Awardees of the University of Santo Tomas College of Commerce and Business Administration.\n\nOn March 24, 1997, Atienza Jr. was abducted by five armed men at Dona Mercedes subdivision, Barangay Libis, Iba, Meycauayan, Bulacan. After a series of negotiations between the armed men and his wife Consolacion A. Atienza, his mother Virginia Atienza and brother Alfredo Atienza, he was released at Pasig City, Metro Manila on March 27, 1997 upon payment of P 2.2 million ransom and P 1.5 million after several days. Atienza Jr. sought the assistance of police operatives (who created a special task force under Joseph Cabato, Military Intelligence Group, under PTFIC). CIG Chief superintendent Efren Fernandez arrested 2 suspects (at the Meycauayan gas station): Felipe Montaos and Eduardo Soriano who pointed to Gerardo Roperez alias Boy Sabater, as mastermind. The other 3 suspects were later caught: Armando Pablo @ Mando, Rudy Depas @ Rudy Bigote and Pablo Anora. In July 1997 and March 2001, Criminal cases were filed with the Office of the Provincial Prosecutor of Bulacan, and the case was docketed as \"People versus Armando Pablo, Rudy Depas and Roperez, et al.\" for kidnapping with ransom and robbery in band. Meanwhile, Atienza Jr., his wife Connie and all their children migrated to Australia due to the trauma. The remaining 2 other suspects were later arrested. \nOn April 19, 2007, the Philippine Court of Appeals rendered a Decision penned by Justices Mariflor Castillo, Rodrigo Cosico and Rosemarie Carandang, affirming with modification the September 3, 2003 judgment of the Malolos City, Bulacan Court. Felipe Montaos and Eduardo Soriano were released for lack of evidence while Gerardo Roperez was acquitted and ordered released. Accused Pablo, Depas and Anora were found guilty of the crimes of kidnapping with ransom and simple robbery and meted the capital punishment of Reclusion Perpetua or life imprisonment and indeterminate penalty of 6 months as minimum to maximum of six years, respectively. They were ordered to pay Atienza Jr. P 3.7 million as actual damages.\n\nMeanwhile, Atienza, Jr.'s vast jewelry (one of the biggest in the Philippines) business flourished at his office at Saluysoy, Meycauayan, Bulacan. He returned to the Philippines in 2001 to testify in the case and brought home his family from Australia after 7 years.(3-25, 1997 issue of Tempo, front page and page 2, by Rolly Carandang).\n\n"}
{"id": "6676124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6676124", "title": "August Busch III", "text": "August Busch III\n\nAugust Anheuser Busch III (born June 16, 1937) is a great-grandson of Anheuser-Busch founder Adolphus Busch and was the company's Chairman until November 30, 2006. August Busch III is informally known as \"Auggie\" and as \"The Third\" or \"Three Sticks\" by subordinates and employees at Anheuser-Busch.\n\nHe is the father of August Busch IV.\n\nAugust Anheuser Busch III was born in St. Louis, Missouri on June 16, 1937. He attended the University of Arizona, but dropped out after failing. His father then gave him an ultimatum, and he began working in an entry-level position in Anheuser Busch.\n\nAugust Busch III served as President of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. (ABC) from 1974 until June 2002, and Chief Executive Officer of ABC from 1975 until June 2002. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors of ABC from 1977 to 2006.\n\nHe was succeeded as the day-to-day operational head of Anheuser-Busch by Patrick Stokes. Stokes' tenure marked the first time in the history of the company that a non-Busch family member ran the day-to-day operations. Busch also conferred the chairmanship to Stokes effective December 1, 2006. He retired from their executive functions at the company on November 30, 2006.\n\nHe has been a director of AT&T Inc. since October 1983. He served as a Director of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company from 1980 to 1983. The CEO of SBC/AT&T, Ed Whitacre, simultaneously served on the board of A-B. They were joined on both boards by Charlie Knight, the CEO of Emerson Electric. Whitacre also served on the board of Emerson. Busch voted to approve $115 million of pay for Whitacre in a five-year period. Busch is Chairman of the Anheuser-Busch Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a member of the Corporate Development Committee and the Executive Committee.\n\nAs of 2007, Busch remains a Director of Emerson Electric Co..\n\nHe has been married twice. His first wife, Susan, is the mother of his two older children August Anheuser Busch IV and Susan Busch-Transou. His second wife, Virginia, who is a practicing attorney, is the mother of his younger two children, Steven Busch and Virginia \"Ginny\" Busch.\n\nUnlike his father Gussie Busch, August III has been a lifelong supporter of the Republican Party, and a friend, ally, and financial supporter to Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and President George W. Bush. August III's eldest son, August A. Busch IV, is a strong supporter of Democratic Party politics, just like his grandfather Gussie.\n\nAll four of his children are involved in the business functions of Anheuser-Busch to varying degrees: August IV was the president and CEO of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.; Susie Busch-Transou and her husband, Tripp, own Tri-Eagle Sales, a distributorship near Tallahassee, Florida; Steven Busch was his father's executive assistant and now owns Krey Distributing Company in St. Peters, Missouri; and Ginny Busch is employed by Busch Entertainment Company (BEC), working closely with A-B's SeaWorld and Busch Gardens family theme park businesses. Both August A. Busch III and August A. Busch Jr. were inducted into the Junior Achievement U.S. Business Hall of fame in 2005.\n\nAugust Anheuser Busch III was responsible for the donation of Mike IV, the live Bengal Tiger mascot of Louisiana State University in 1974. Mike IV, originally Jerry, was born at Busch Gardens in Tampa, Florida.\n"}
{"id": "10066934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066934", "title": "Basel IA", "text": "Basel IA\n\nBasel IA was proposed as an intermediate between the current Basel I accord and the Basel II accord that is being implemented. Basel IA would have been more risk sensitive than Basel I but would not be as complex as the advanced approach under Basel II.\n\nOn July 20, 2007 by a deal between the various US banking regulators (The Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) it was decided to drop the proposed Basel IA and allow Basel II Standardised in its place.\n\nThe US initially proposed that banks would need to use the advanced approach only if they were to implement Basel II. The idea of Basel IA was to enable smaller US banks to adopt a methodology that is more risk sensitive than Basel I that they are currently using for calculating capital adequacy. The Fed chairman mentioned that smaller banks who do not wish to move to Basel II Advanced or Basel IA could continue to operate under Basel I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "729367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729367", "title": "Bowling Green (IRT Lexington Avenue Line)", "text": "Bowling Green (IRT Lexington Avenue Line)\n\nBowling Green is a station on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line of the New York City Subway, located at Broadway and Battery Place (at the Bowling Green), in the Financial District of Manhattan. It is served by the ' train at all times and the ' train at all times except late nights.\n\nThe station has two tracks and two platforms in service: a center island platform that serves Brooklyn-bound trains, and a side platform that serves uptown trains. An abandoned and walled off island platform and track on the west side of the station were formerly used by the Bowling Green–South Ferry Shuttle to the inner platform at South Ferry.\n\nSouth of the station, the tracks diverge into two sets. One set (the inner tracks) enter the Joralemon Street Tunnel to travel to Brooklyn: this route is used by the 4 train at all times and the 5 train on weekdays until 8:45pm. The outer tracks continue to the closed South Ferry inner loop station, which is used by the 5 train when it short turns at this station during weekends and late weekday evenings.\n\nWhen the station opened on July 10, 1905, there was as yet no IRT service to Brooklyn, and all Lexington Avenue trains terminated at South Ferry, using the outer-loop platform. After the Joralemon Street Tunnel opened in 1908, some Lexington Avenue trains continued to terminate at South Ferry, even during rush hours, while others went to Brooklyn. This service pattern was soon found to be inadequate for the high volume of Brooklyn riders.\n\nJust three months after the Joralemon Street Tunnel opened, construction began on the third track and the western island platform at Bowling Green. Once they were completed in 1909, all rush-hour trains were sent to Brooklyn, with a two-car Bowling Green–South Ferry Shuttle train providing service to South Ferry during those times. Even after the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line local service () began to South Ferry in 1918, the shuttle remained in operation until it was discontinued in 1977 due to budget cuts. The shuttle platform was renovated in 1978 along with the rest of the station. The 1978 renovation covered over the original Heins & LaFarge mosaic \"tapestries\" that were along the walls.\n\nThe 1970s renovation also led to the construction of the eastern side platform, again due to high passenger volume on the island platform. Additional exits were requested and an underpass was built, funneling some of the traffic away from the headhouse exit at the south end. This led to the station's current configuration, with uptown trains using the side platform, and Brooklyn-bound trains using the island platform (similar to the configuration at Broadway Junction on the BMT Canarsie Line). A fence is located along the edge of the island platform, preventing northbound trains from releasing passengers onto the island platform. The fare control now consists of the restored headhouse entrance at the south end, which serves only the island platform, and various other entrances that lead to the eastern side platform and down to a large fare control area in the underpass.\n\nTwo elevators make the station ADA-accessible. One connects street level with the fare control area below the platforms and tracks with an intermediate stop at the main northbound fare control area while the other connects the Brooklyn-bound platform with the fare control area below.\n\nThe station has three street stairs, an elevator, a set of escalators, and an original control house. At the station's north end at Bowling Green, two street stairs are located at the northwestern corner of the T-intersection of State Street and Broadway. The elevator is at the northeastern corner of said intersection. There is a glass-canopied stairs-and-escalator entrance in front of the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House's north elevation, just around the corner from two entrances to the Whitehall Street–South Ferry station on the BMT Broadway Line (which are set into the building's eastern elevation).\n\nAt the south end of the station is the original head house, known as the Bowling Green IRT Control House or Battery Park Control House, on the west side of State Street south of Broadway. This subway entrance was designed by Heins & LaFarge and built in 1905 on the west side of State Street, across from the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House. It has turnstiles at street level and stairs down to the island platform.\n\nAlong with its twin, the old control house for the 72nd Street station, this building is a reminder of the glory of New York's first subway company, the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, predecessor to the current numbered routes. Although most of the original subway's entry points had steel and glass kiosks (for example, Astor Place), important stations like this one were marked with a brick and stone control house, which were referred to as such because they helped control the passenger flow. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Bowling Green station has lightboxes with rotating content. The current exhibition, since April 2015, is \"Breaking Ground\", featuring pictures taken by Patrick J. Cashin of MTA Capital Construction projects such as the 7 Subway Extension, Second Avenue Subway, and East Side Access. Some of these photos can be seen on the MTA's Flickr account as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23079689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23079689", "title": "Certified MBA", "text": "Certified MBA\n\nCertified MBA (CMBA) was a professional certification designed as an \"objective measure of a student's grasp of the MBA skill set\". It was offered by the International Certification Institute.\n\nThe CMBA focused on the \"10 key subject areas\" comprising the MBA \"core curriculum\" (Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Quantitative Analysis, Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Finance, Marketing Management, Operations Management, Organizational Behavior, and Business Strategy). The certification was a series of exams taken over several days. Each four-hour exam focused on several of the subject areas and was composed of multiple choice questions. The exams were administered by Prometric.\n\nThe certification was incorporated into the Western Governors University MBA program for several years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54853196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54853196", "title": "Claudia Olsson", "text": "Claudia Olsson\n\nClaudia Olsson (born 27 December 1983) is a Swedish technology expert, business leader, and speaker with a background in engineering and economics. She is CEO and founder of Exponential AB, founder of Stellar Capacity AB, an Associate Faculty member at Singularity University, a David Rockefeller Fellow at the Trilateral Commission, as well as a Young Global Leader with the World Economic Forum.\n\nOlsson started her career as Project Manager of the Stockholm International Youth Science Seminar for the Nobel Prize Committee and the Federation of Young Scientists. She then worked for the Swedish Trade Council in Warsaw and the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in New York City. She set up and managed the policy think-tank ACCESS Health International in Singapore following her work for ACCESS in India. She then served as a Senior Advisor to the Office of Strategic Analysis at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Sweden. From 2010 to 2015, Olsson served as a board member of Project Playground, a Swedish non-profit organization aiming to improve the life opportunities of children and youth in South Africa. In 2014, Olsson founded Exponential AB, a global education company. Exponential has among other notable missions been tasked to author the \"Sweden 2030 Future Scenario\" for the Digitalization Commission of the Government of Sweden, a report released in 2016 focusing on the digital, integrated, smart and competitive society. Olsson also co-authored the report “Blockchain-Decentralized Trust”  for the Entrepreneurship Forum. Also in 2014, Olsson founded Stellar Capacity AB, known as \"Swedish for Professionals\", a leading education company working to help professionals integrate in the Swedish society and to learn Swedish. The company has developed its own methodology leveraging new technologies and blended learning technique and aims to prepare citizens for a more globalized world. The same year, she became an Associate Faculty member at Singularity University following her engagement with the university as an advisor on Global Grand Challenges in 2013. In 2016, she was appointed a European David Rockefeller Fellow to the Trilateral Commission. In 2017, Olsson co-founded the executive program Decoding X at the Stockholm School of Economics. The same year, she began her engagement with the World Economic Forum in their Europe Policy Group. She also shares insights into technology and globalization through the editorial column of SvD.\n\nOlsson has studied International Economics and Business at Stockholm School of Economics as well as Industrial Engineering at KTH Royal Institute of Technology. She has also studied at INSA Lyon, France and in Karlsruhe University, Germany. In 2001, she was among the 21 students selected to attend the inaugural program of the Raoul Wallenberg Academy. In 2009, Olsson was appointed the Energy Student of the Year in Sweden. In 2010, Olsson was the first Swedish participant to attend Singularity University's Graduate Studies Program. In 2017, she was selected for the Bucerius Summer School on Global Governance\n\nIn 2018, Olsson was appointed a member of the High Level Industrial Roundtable \"Industry 2030\" at the European Commission as well as a European Young Leader (EYL40) by the Friends of Europe. In 2017, Olsson was appointed a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum. In 2016, she was appointed a European David Rockefeller Fellow at the Trilateral Commission, ranked as one of the top 99 most impactful individuals of the future by TCO, and ranked as one of Sweden’s most inspiring female engineers by Ny Teknik. In 2015, she was ranked as one of Sweden’s Top-10 Speakers 2014 by Talarforum. In 2014, she was ranked top 10 of Sweden’s Business Talents by 4Potentials and Svenska Dagbladet. In 2012, she was selected for the Symposium for Leaders of the Next Generation by the Star Foundation in Penglai, China and as a Gifted Citizen and Finalist in the Global Impact Project Competition for La Ciudad de las ideas in Mexico. In 2011, she was appointed as The Young Leader of the Year in Sweden by 4Potentials, Ledarstudion, and SvD. In 2010, she was the Nova of the Year (Top Talent) in Sweden, appointed a Future Leader of Tomorrow at the St. Gallen Symposium in Switzerland, and ranked as one of Sweden's 101 Supertalents in the Business Magazine Veckans Affärer.\n\n"}
{"id": "329195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329195", "title": "Comerica Park", "text": "Comerica Park\n\nComerica Park is an open-air ballpark located in Downtown Detroit. It serves as the home of the Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball, replacing Tiger Stadium in 2000.\n\nThe park is named after Comerica Bank, which was founded in Detroit and was based there when the park opened. While Comerica has since moved its headquarters to Dallas, the bank still retains a large presence in the Detroit area. The stadium's seating capacity is 41,083. Downtown public transportation for the park is available via the Detroit People Mover station at Grand Circus Park, and the QLine at the Montcalm Street station. Comerica Park sits on the original site of the Detroit College of Law.\n\nFounded in 1894, the Tigers had played at the corner of Michigan and Trumbull Avenues in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood since 1896, when Bennett Park opened. In 1911, new Tigers owner Frank Navin ordered the construction of a new ballpark to be built on the same site. Opening in 1912, the ballpark, which eventually became known as Tiger Stadium, served as the Tigers' home for the next 88 seasons. By the mid-1990s, it had become apparent that the much-beloved ballpark had become obsolete and could not be renovated any further.\n\nGroundbreaking for a new ballpark to replace Tiger Stadium was held on October 29, 1997. At the time of construction, the scoreboard in left field was the largest in Major League Baseball. In December 1998, Comerica Bank agreed to pay $66 million over 30 years for the naming rights for the new ballpark. It was part of a downtown revitalization plan for the city of Detroit, which included the construction of Ford Field, adjacent to the ballpark. The first game was held on April 11, 2000, against the Seattle Mariners. Upon its opening, there was some effort to try to find a nickname for the ballpark, with the abbreviation CoPa suggested by many. It is often referred to simply as Comerica.\n\nThe first game at Comerica Park was held on Tuesday, April 11, 2000 with 39,168 spectators attending, on a cold snowy afternoon. The temperature that afternoon was 36 °F. The Tigers defeated the Seattle Mariners 5–2. The winning pitcher, as in the final game at Tiger Stadium, was Brian Moehler.\n\nThe main entrance to the ballpark is located across the street from the Fox Theatre and between two historic downtown churches, St. John Episcopal Church and Central United Methodist Church. Outside of the main entrance is a tiger statue that's in height. There are 8 other heroic-sized tiger statues throughout the park, including two prowling on top of the scoreboard in left field. These tigers' eyes light up after a Tigers home run or a victory and the sound of a growling tiger plays as well. The tigers were originally created by sculptor Michael Keropian and fabricated by ShowMotion Inc. in Norwalk, Connecticut. Along the brick walls outside of the park are 33 tiger heads with lighted baseballs in their mouths.\n\nAt the left-center field concourse there are statues of all of the players whose numbers have been retired by the Tigers (with the exception of Jackie Robinson, whose number was retired in every MLB park in 1997 and is located on the wall in right-center field). A statue of Ty Cobb is also there, but he does not have a number, as he played baseball before players began to wear numbers on their uniforms. These players' names, along with the names of Hall of Fame players and broadcasters who spent a significant part of their career with the Tigers, are also on a wall in right-center field. Ernie Harwell, the team's long time radio announcer and a recipient of the Hall of Fame's Ford C. Frick Award, has a statue just inside the stadium on the first base side.\n\nThe field itself features a distinctive dirt strip between home plate and the pitcher's mound. This strip, sometimes known as the \"keyhole\", was common in early ballparks, but it's very rare in modern facilities (the only other current major league park to feature one is Chase Field in Phoenix). Additionally, the home plate area is in the shape of the home plate itself, and not as a standard circle.\n\nIn the northeastern corner of the stadium behind the stands from the third base line is a Ferris wheel with twelve cars designed like baseballs. In the northwestern corner of the stadium behind the stands from the first base line is a carousel.\n\nThe flagpole located between center and left fields was originally in play, as was the flagpole in Tiger Stadium. However, the left field wall was moved in front of the pole before the 2003 season. A ball that hits the pole is now ruled a home run. The right field of the stadium features the Pepsi Porch, a picnic deck between the 100 and 200 level seating bowls. Also in right field, and part of the 100 level seating bowl, is an area of seats known as \"Kaline's Corner\", an homage to Hall of Fame right fielder Al Kaline, who once played for the Tigers when the team played in Tiger Stadium.\n\nAn LED scoreboard was added to the right-center field wall, and the upper deck fascia for the 2007 season.\nA giant fountain is located behind center field. General Motors sponsored the fountain from 2000 to 2008, and used the area to showcase GM manufactured vehicles as well. While GM dropped its sponsorship for the 2009 season due to financial issues, the GM branding was not removed from the fountain. Instead, signs for Chrysler and Ford were also added to the display, along with the message \"The Detroit Tigers support our automakers.\" In 2010, GM returned to sponsoring the display, now known as the Chevrolet Fountain.\n\nA completely redesigned and upgraded left field video display debuted for the 2012 season. The serif \"TIGERS\" letters were removed, replaced by cursive lettering that can also display graphics and video. An analog clock below the Tigers letters and above the Comerica Park lettering was removed completely. A high-definition LED display was installed, which was much larger than the three displays that had existed there previously. The previous scoreboard utilized light bulbs - still a popular scoreboard technology around the time the park opened, though they were quickly aging as LED displays became available and were installed around other Major League ballparks. The scoreboard was also raised 16 feet in an effort to address complaints that the scoreboard was too far left and thus obstructed by the left field upper deck. Along with the replacement scoreboard, all remaining bulb fascia scoreboards were also upgraded to LED.\n\nIn 2014, the Tigers announced a $4 million renovation to Comerica Park's Pepsi Porch. This renovation included the removal of the bleachers that once occupied this space and the addition of new stadium seats. The plan also included new high top tables, a new bar in the middle of the porch, couches and lounge chairs, as well as a fire pit. The bleachers that once occupied this area was moved to the space above The Jungle restaurant and bar.\n\nThere is a fireworks show after Friday evening games usually starting after Memorial Day.\n\nIn contrast to Tiger Stadium, which had long been considered one of the most hitter-friendly parks in baseball, Comerica Park is considered to be extremely friendly to pitchers. Except for dead center field—420 feet (128 m) versus Tiger Stadium's 440 feet (134 m)—the outfield dimensions were more expansive than those at Tiger Stadium. This led to complaints from players and fans alike. Most famously, Bobby Higginson sarcastically referred to the venue as \"Comerica National Park\".\n\nBefore the start of the 2003 MLB season, the club moved the distance from left-center field from . This also removed the flagpole from the field of play, originally incorporated as an homage to Tiger Stadium. Two years later, the bullpens were moved from right field to an empty area in left field created when the fence was moved in. In place of the old bullpens in right field, about 950 seats were added. This made one of the most pitcher-friendly ballparks transform into the third most batter-friendly (with extra bases also taken into account).\n\nAlso of note, the current layout of the playing field at Comerica Park means that when a player is at bat, the direction he is facing looks farther to the south than at any other Major League Baseball park.\n\nIn 2005, Comerica Park hosted the 76th MLB All-Star Game, the first to be played in Detroit since 1971. In the Home Run Derby, held the day before, Bobby Abreu slammed 24 home runs in the first round, breaking the previous record of 15. Abreu won the Derby over Tiger Iván Rodríguez, hitting a then record 41 homers during the event. In the All-Star Game, the American League won 7–5 with Miguel Tejada winning the game's MVP Award.\n\nThe first playoff game at Comerica Park was played on October 6, 2006 against the New York Yankees. On October 21, 2006, Comerica Park hosted the first World Series game in the history of the ballpark (Game 1 of the 2006 World Series).\n\nOn June 12, 2007, the first no-hitter was thrown at Comerica Park by Justin Verlander. The Tigers won the game 4–0 against the Milwaukee Brewers. It was also the first no-hitter thrown by a Tiger in the city of Detroit since Virgil Trucks accomplished the feat in 1952.\n\nOn May 24, 2008, the Tiger statue at the main entrance to the ballpark was dressed with a Detroit Red Wings jersey as the Red Wings were playing against the Pittsburgh Penguins in the Stanley Cup Finals during that time. Detroit defeated Pittsburgh in 6 games for the Stanley Cup. The jersey is usually worn by the Spirit of Detroit, but it was undergoing restoration during that time.\n\nOn August 15, 2011, Minnesota Twins slugger Jim Thome became the 8th player in baseball history to hit 600 career home runs.\n\nComerica Park hosted its second World Series in 2012, with the Tigers getting swept by the San Francisco Giants.\n\nOn February 9, 2012, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman announced that Comerica Park would host many events leading up to the 2013 NHL Winter Classic. These events would have included the NHL alumni game, as well as outdoor games from all levels, including youth, the Ontario Hockey League, the American Hockey League, and the Great Lakes Invitational. Due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout, the event was cancelled. Instead, the festival took place in December 2013 where an outdoor rink was set up on the infield of the ballpark for public skating and hockey games.\n\nOn July 19, 2017, Comerica Park hosted its first ever soccer game between Roma of the Italian Serie A League against Paris Saint-Germain of France's Ligue 1 in the 2017 International Champions Cup tournament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24550325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24550325", "title": "Commercial Real Estate Women", "text": "Commercial Real Estate Women\n\nCommercial Real Estate Women (CREW) Network is a professional association for women in the real estate profession. There are various chapters of CREW throughout the United States which create programming focused on business networking, social and educational programs and the advancement of women in commercial real estate. \n\nCommercial Real Estate Women (CREW) Network works to educate women about opportunities in commercial real estate. The organization was founded in 1989. CREW has over 11,000 members worldwide, and the organization has four main initiatives: Business Development, Industry Research, Leadership Development, and Career Outreach.\n\nVarious chapters of CREW exist throughout the United States. Most chapters focus on networking, social and educational activities for members. By 2007, there were 61 individual chapters in various states.\n\nIn 1998, CREW created a fund-raising and philanthropic program called CREW Foundation. CREW also has a national conference. \n\n"}
{"id": "40177149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40177149", "title": "Dave Crenshaw", "text": "Dave Crenshaw\n\nDave Crenshaw (born 1975) is an American author, public speaker, small business and time management expert. His books \"The Myth of Multitasking: How \"Doing It All\" Gets Nothing Done\" and \"Invaluable: The Secret to Becoming Irreplaceable\" have been adapted for teaching by some universities and cited or referenced in the works of some writers.\n\nCrenshaw earned his Bachelor of Science in Business Management with emphasis in Entrepreneurship from the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University in 2000.\n\nA clinical psychologist once diagnosed Crenshaw with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). According to Cathy Allred in the Daily Herald of Utah, Crenshaw was able to harness his own chaos and through his career choice as a business coach, has helped others manage time well through coaching and self-help books dealing with time management and productivity.\n\nCrenshaw began his career in 1998 as an independent consultant for a large consulting firm for small businesses. He is also a Lynda.com's author and presenter of over 10 business skills courses, including \"Time Management Fundamentals\" and \"Small Business Secrets\".\n\nThe BBC News described Crenshaw as a multitasking expert, and wrote that Crenshaw says that to be productive it is best not to multi-task at all. Crenshaw is described by Mark Lewis in Forbes as a productivity consultant, and wrote that Crenshaw says that multitaskers think they are doing two or more things simultaneously, when actually they are switching rapidly back and forth between tasks. Joyce E.A. Russell wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that Crenshaw says that multitasking should be called switchtasking because if you really examined what you are doing you would see that people are just rapidly switching from one task to another, and as we are not very good at it, it can have some consequences, actually hurting our productivity because of the time lost making even fast switches.\n\n\"The Myth of Multitasking: How \"Doing It All\" Gets Nothing Done\" was written by Crenshaw and published in 2008 by Jossey-Bass, an imprint of Wiley. Dennis Lythgoe described \"The Myth of Multitasking: How \"Doing It All\" Gets Nothing Done\" in the Deseret News as a candid and satirical little book that takes on one of the most talked about social myths of the modern scene – multitasking. Jossey-Bass also published Crenshaw's book, \"Invaluable: The Secret to Becoming Irreplaceable\" in 2010. Jim Pawlak summarized \"Invaluable: The Secret to Becoming Irreplaceable\" in the Silicon Valley Business Journal that Crenshaw provides a number of fill-in-the-blanks templates that help you identify your most valuable activities (MVAs) and manage time effectively. Crenshaw's book on entrepreneurship, \"The Focused Business: How Entrepreneurs Can Triumph Over Chaos\" was published in 2013.\n\nCrenshaw has been a keynote speaker for many small business events, including EO Alchemy 2012 — Seattle, Crown Council's 18th Annual Event, Schnizzfest 2013, Behind Every Leader, TiE Silicon Valley and LTB 2014.\n\nSome of the books written by Crenshaw are:\n\n"}
{"id": "48878291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48878291", "title": "Dmitry Gerasimenko", "text": "Dmitry Gerasimenko\n\nDmitry Petrovich Gerasimenko (; born 29 September 1978) is a Russian businessman, owner of steel company Krasny Oktyabr Closed Joint-Stock Company and of basketball clubs BC Krasny Oktyabr and Pallacanestro Cantù.\n\nOf Ukrainian origin, Gerasimenko became a multimillionaire thanks to steel (actually he owns Krasny Oktyabr Closed Joint-Stock Company, the second largest steelmill in Russia) and gas.\n\nIn 2012 he founded the club of the same name of the factory, who got a wild card for the VTB United League.\n\nIn November 2015 has also acquired 65% of the shares of Pallacanestro Cantù.\n"}
{"id": "46918285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46918285", "title": "Domenico Scala (manager)", "text": "Domenico Scala (manager)\n\nDomenico Scala (born 1965 in Basel, Switzerland) is a Swiss-Italian manager in the biopharmaceutical industry, and the former chairman of the FIFA Audit & Compliance Committee.\n\nScala has a university degree in economics from the University of Basel. After his studies he worked for Nestlé, Panalpina and Roche, where he held various senior leadership positions.\n\nIn 2003, he became CFO of Syngenta AG and in 2007 CEO of the Swedish-Swiss dental company Nobel Biocare, specializing in dental implants. He is on the advisory board of Tufts University in Boston, the second largest dental faculty in North America. Since November 2011 he is Vice-Chairman of Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. and since January 2015 Chairman of i-net innovation networks Switzerland. In 2004, he was one of a selected few executives to be named \"Young Global Leader\" by the World Economic Forum (WEF).\n\nIn May 2013 the FIFA congress elected Scala as chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee of FIFA, association football's international governing body. The committee has the task of overseeing FIFA's business practices. In June 2, 2015, he assumed the oversight/leadership of a reform program within FIFA. On September 10, 2015, he published a comprehensive governance reform report on FIFA. On February 26, 2016 the FIFA congress approved significant governance reforms, which have largely been devised by Domenico Scala along his reform \"blueprint\" published in September 2015. Scala's proposals are essentially looking to reshape FIFA along the lines of a modern corporation. Scala's most significant reforms are to introduce term limits and to split the governing executive committee along the lines of large corporations. They have a board to set strategy and oversee the work of an executive board, which conducts the day-to-day business. Domenico Scala has also called for the six confederations to themselves undergo reforms, including integrity checks for their officials along the lines of those introduced at FIFA for all elected officials.\n\nIn an interview published on 7 June 2015, Scala stated that Russia and Qatar would possibly no longer be eligible to host the FIFA World Cup competitions in 2018 and 2022 if evidence of bribery was proven, saying \"Should there be evidence that the awards to Qatar and Russia came only because of bought votes, then the awards could be cancelled.\"\n\nScala resigned from his position at FIFA on May 14, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "42802461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42802461", "title": "Doubling (textiles)", "text": "Doubling (textiles)\n\nDoubling is a textile industry term synonymous with combining. It can be used for various processes during spinning. During the carding stage, several sources of roving are doubled together and drawn, to remove variations in thickness. After spinning, yarn is doubled for many reasons. Yarn may be doubled to produce warp for weaving, to make cotton for lace, crochet and knitting. It is used for embroidery threads and sewing threads, for example: sewing thread is usually 6-cable thread. Two threads of spun 60s cotton are twisted together, and three of these double threads are twisted into a cable, of what is now 5s yarn. This is mercerised, gassed (AKA flamed) and wound onto a bobbin. \n\nIn a wider sense carding can refer to the four processes of willowing, lapping, carding and drawing. During willowing the fibres are loosened; in lapping the dust is removed to create a flat sheet or lap of fibres. Carding combs the tangled lap into a thick rope or sliver of 1/2 inch in diameter, and removes the shorter fibres creating a stronger yarn.\n\nDuring the carding process the staples are separated and then assembled into a loose strand (sliver or tow).\nThe carders line up the staples to prepare them for spinning. The carding machine consists mainly of one big roller with smaller ones surrounding it. All of the rollers are covered in small teeth, and as the cotton progresses further on the teeth get finer (i.e. closer together). The cotton leaves the carding machine in the form of a sliver; a large rope of fibres.\"\n\nIn drawing, 4 slivers are combined into one. Repeated drawing decreases the quality of the sliver drastically, disabling finer counts from being spun. Each sliver will have thin and thick spots. By combining, or doubling several slivers together a more consistent size can be reached. The slivers are separated into rovings. These rovings (or slubbings) are then what are used in the spinning process. \n\nFor machine processing, a roving is about the width of a pencil. The rovings are collected in a drum and proceed to the slubbing frame which adds twist, and winds onto bobbins. Intermediate Frames are used to repeat the slubbing process to produce a finer yarn, and then the roving frames reduces it to a finer thread, gives more twist, makes more regular and even in thickness, and winds onto a smaller tube.\nOver time the processes were refined. At Masson Mill and at Helmshore, there are Derby Doublers. The Masson machine, built by Platts of Oldham in 1902, doubled rovings from the breaker cards into card lap. This was then passed through the finisher card to produce the rovings This process was known as double carding. The Derby Doubler was patented by Evan Leigh of Ashton-under-Lyne (21 December 1810 - 2 February 1876) and, though superseded, still continued in service in condensing coarse counts.\n\nDoubling of yarn where two or more stands or ends of yarn are twisted together. There are many purposes where doubled yarn is used. Sometimes thread is doubled to make warp, and it is invariably used for the manufacture of knitting yarn, crochet yarn and sewing yarn. All these yarns must be smooth and free from knots. In a sewing thread, the treads are doubled in two phases. Two or three strands are twisted together then three of these threads are twisted together, to form a six or nine cord.\nThe spun yarn is wound onto a bobbin using a \"doubling winding machine\", and two or more of these bobbins are placed on doubling frame (doubling winding machine). The ends pass through a series of rollers and twisted together onto one bobbin using a spindle and flyer. The process here is similar to that found in one of Arkwrights Water frames, though the size of the ring, spindle and traveller are predictably larger. Alternatively a 'twiner' is used: this is a modified spinning mule and is mainly consigned to the doubling of warp thread \nHigh quality doubling depended on keeping the tension correct and feeding the produced thread evenly and tightly on a bobbin or flangeless paper tubes\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12383932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12383932", "title": "Employment testing", "text": "Employment testing\n\nEmployment testing is the practice of administering written, oral, or other tests as a means of determining the suitability or desirability of a job applicant. The premise is that if scores on a test correlate with job performance, then it is economically useful for the employer to select employees based on scores from that test.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has decided several cases clarifying the place of employment testing in the context of discrimination law. In particular, these cases have addressed the discriminatory use of tests when promoting employees by requiring tests beyond the education required for the job. A central finding in Griggs v. Duke Power Co. was that the employer must demonstrate (or be prepared to demonstrate) that its selection process is related to the job being filled.\n\nDifferent types of assessments may be used for employment testing, including personality tests, intelligence tests, work samples, and assessment centers. Some correlate better with job performance than with others; employers often use more than one to maximize predictive power.\n\nPerformance-based assessment testing is a process to find out if applicants can do the job for which they are applying. It is done through tests, which are directly administered and judged by Hiring Managers who will be supervising the potential hire. \nPerformance assessments can be used as a pre-screening tool to test applied knowledge, skills-job match and commitment of the applicant towards the job position.\n\nThe tests are peer-to-peer and reflect real business tasks that candidates have to perform, should they be selected for the role. The tests are open ended, time bound, business related questions which applicants need to submit their responses for in order to prove their abilities.\n\nThe most important question that performance testing, seeks to answer is: How would you solve this problem?\nWeb tools like, HireVue, GapJumpers and CodeEval allow candidate responses to be judged directly by Hiring Managers of the respective departments to select the ones most suited for the role, thus making the process efficient for the company.\n\nPersonality tests may potentially be useful in personnel selection. Of the well-known Big Five personality traits, only conscientiousness correlates substantially with traditional measures of job performance, and that correlation is strong enough to be predictive. However, other factors of personality can correlate substantially with non-traditional aspects of job performance, such as leadership and effectiveness in a team environment. The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) is also used.\n\nThe Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) is a highly validated psychopathology test that is generally used in a clinical psychology setting and may reveal potential mental health disorders. However, this can be considered by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as the employer having knowledge of a medical condition prior to an offer of employment. This is an illegal basis for a hiring decision in the United States. Employers considering personality tests should focus on tests designed for job purposes and do not provide any information regarding an applicant's mental health or stability.\n\nNotable situations in which the MMPI may be used are in final selection for police officers, fire fighters, and other security and emergency personnel, especially when the employees are required to carry weapons. An assessment of mental stability and fitness can be reasonably related and necessary in the performance of the job.\n\nEmployment integrity testing is used to determine an applicant's honesty and integrity.\n\nTests of cognitive ability can assess general intelligence and correlate very highly with overall job performance. Individuals with higher levels of cognitive ability tend to perform better on their jobs. This is especially true for jobs that are particularly intellectually demanding.\n\nEmployers administer job-knowledge tests when applicants must already possess a body of knowledge before being hired. Job-knowledge tests are particularly useful when applicants must have specialized or technical knowledge that can only be acquired through extensive experience or training. Job-knowledge tests are commonly used in fields such as computer programming, law, financial management.and electrical or mechanical maintenance.\n\nLicensing exams and certification programs are also types of job-knowledge tests. Passing such exams indicates competence in the exam's subject area. Tests must be representative of the tested field, otherwise litigation can be brought against the test-giver.\n\nSituational judgment tests are commonly used as employee-selection and employee-screening tools and have been developed to predict employment success. These tests present realistic hypothetical scenarios in a multiple-choice format. Applicants are asked to state what they would do in a difficult job-related situation.\n\nSituational judgment tests measure the suitability of job applicants by assessing attributes such as problem solving, service orientation, and striving for achievement.\n\nPre-employment testing companies:\n\nBelow organisations are providing employment testing services to companies & helping them with the employment tests to solve their hiring problems.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581063", "title": "Engine Alliance", "text": "Engine Alliance\n\nThe Engine Alliance (EA) is an American aircraft engine manufacturer based in East Hartford, Connecticut. The company is a 50/50 joint venture between GE Aviation, a subsidiary of General Electric, and Pratt & Whitney, a subsidiary of United Technologies. Engine Alliance was established in August 1996 to develop, manufacture, sell, and support a family of modern technology aircraft engines for new high-capacity, long-range aircraft.\n\nThe main application for such an engine, the GP7200, was originally the Boeing 747-500/600X projects, before these were cancelled due to lack of demand from airlines.\n\nInstead, the GP7000 has been re-optimized for use on the Airbus A380 superjumbo. In that market it is competing with the Rolls-Royce Trent 900, the launch engine for the aircraft. The two EA variants are the GP7270 and the GP7277.\n\nOn September 30, 2017, an Engine Alliance GP7270 engine suffered from an uncontained failure during a passenger flight. \n"}
{"id": "11073626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11073626", "title": "Evangelos Papastratos", "text": "Evangelos Papastratos\n\nEvangelos Papastratos (, 1910 – 1973) was a Greek businessman born in the city of Agrinio in Aetolia-Acarnania, Greece. \n\nAlthough the youngest of his brothers, he was the first in his family to become involved with the tobacco trade. Along with his brother Sotirios he founded the Papastratiou Brothers firm, one of the biggest tobacco companies in Greece until the rise in foreign cigarette imports in the 1970s and the 1980s. Papastratos also wrote a book called \"I douleia kai o kopos tis\" (\"Η δουλειά και ο κόπος της\").\n\n"}
{"id": "24786351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786351", "title": "Faces of Freedom", "text": "Faces of Freedom\n\nThe \"Faces of Freedom\" photo exhibition is a collection of photographs captured by photo-journalist, filmmaker and human rights educator U. Roberto (Robin) Romano, during his travels to India, Nepal and Pakistan. Romano explores the exploitation of child labor in the production of handmade rugs in coordination with multiple international organizations, such as the World Bank, UNICEF, International Labour Organization and others to reduce the number of child laborers in that industry. The exhibit has been shown in many United States cities since its first exhibit in 2009. Faces of Freedom has been included in CNN Freedom Projects of modern slavery.\n\nTo combat exploitation of child labor, The World Bank with UNICEF, International Labour Organization (ILO) and Understanding Children's Work Initiative to bring awareness of the scope of the problem. The World Bank estimates that there are 218 million children who are victim to unfair child labor practices. The children's ages range from five to seventeen years of age. The handmade rug industry is one of industries involved in exploitation of child labor. The World Bank works with country-based and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in an effort to \"combat child labor.\"\n\nThe United Nations and the International Labour Organization consider child labor exploitative, with the UN stipulating, in article 32 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that:\"...States Parties recognize the right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child's education, or to be harmful to the child's health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.\" Although globally there is an estimated 250 million children working.\nAccording to the census in 1990 nearly 18% of all the children in America are working in different organizations. The Supreme Court banned child labor in 1916 but the law became visible in 1941. The labor department is also not paying attention to the child labor in USA therefore children are still employed in the organizations. The age of the children who are employed is between 15 years to 17 years. They are nearly 3.7 million children who work in different factories. There is an interesting fact that more than 600 children died in work related accidents.\n\nU. Roberto Romano, a photographer, filmmaker and humans right activist, traveled to India, Nepal and Pakistan to record the plight of child laborers in the handmade rug industry. He also gathered photographs and stories of children who have been rescued by the GoodWeave organization, previously known as Rugmark.\n\nThe Faces of Freedom exhibit is a collection of photos by U. Roberto Romano that provides insight into the lives, poor living conditions and faces of child rug-weavers of South Asia. Messages of hope are portrayed in the photographs and stories of children that were assisted by the GoodWeave program to attain school education. A selection of handmade rugs made without child labor is also exhibited.\n\nAfter initial showings in San Francisco, New York and Washington, D.C., the collection has been exhibited in major cities across the United States since 2009.\n\nIn late 2010, the Faces of Freedom exhibit was featured the ABC television network show Good Morning America. On April 18, 2011, Faces of Freedom was covered in CNN Freedom Project’s of modern slavery. The piece appears on CNN website with a slideshow of images of GoodWeave’s Faces of Freedom photo exhibition.\n\nU. Roberto (Robin) Romano is an investigative filmmaker, where he has been director, director of photography, still photographer and/or producer in the following efforts:\n\nThe Harvest\n\nDark Side of Chocolate\n\nFields of Peril\n\nChildren in the Fields\n\nStolen Childhoods\n\n"}
{"id": "37104178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37104178", "title": "Ferran Soriano", "text": "Ferran Soriano\n\nFerran Soriano i Compte (born June 16, 1967 in Barcelona) is the Chief Executive Officer of the Premier League's Manchester City F.C., Major League Soccer's New York City F.C., and the A-League's Melbourne City FC. Between 2003 and 2008, he was the Vice-President and General Manager of FC Barcelona.\n\nFerran Soriano is an MBA and Business studies graduate at ESADE, the New York RPI and Université Catholique de Louvain of Belgium.\n\nHe speaks Catalan, Spanish, English, French and Portuguese.\n\nSoriano has held a number of positions in companies in a variety of industries, such as consumer products, telecommunications and entertainment, and has held senior positions at The Mac Group, Reckitt Benckiser, and Cluster Consulting, a management consulting firm he co-founded in 1993.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2008, Soriano was Economy Vice President of Barcelona, having been elected with the Joan Laporta’s ticket to the club's Board of Directors. He also acted as interim CEO. Barcelona's revenues, during Soriano's tenure, increased from €123 million to €308m, while a €73m loss was turned into an €88m profit. On July 6th, 2008, Soriano and seven other Board Members resigned, after a vote of non-confidence against the Board, amidst growing disagreement with Laporta’s \"leadership style.\"\n\nIn April 2009, Soriano was elected Chairman of the Catalonia-based airline Spanair, rescued by the Catalan government from SAS with the objective of creating a hub in the Barcelona airport. Revenue improved and the company started cutting costs, but, on 27 January 2012, after a deal with Qatar Airways fell through, the airline ceased operations.\n\nOn 1 September 2012, Soriano was appointed Manchester City F.C. CEO. In the first year and months of his tenure, Manchester City has cut its losses in half and he claims the club will break even in the 2013-14 season. Soriano replaced Manager Roberto Mancini with Manuel Pellegrini and tasked him to win “five trophies in five years”. \nIn the same period City has bought an MLS franchise in New York to create New York City FC and an existing football club in Australia (Melbourne Heart FC) initiating the club’s expansion strategy.\n\nIn January 2013, Barcelona president Sandro Rosell claimed that \"Manchester City have attempted to entice a number of staff from the Camp Nou\", but added \"there were no fish left\". Rosell alleged that the Manchester club tried, in an \"offensive\" approach, to sign players \"from all levels of Barcelona's structure,\" and also other employees of the Catalan side. These allegations were not pursued.\n\nIn February 2013, Soriano was accused by the FC Barcelona board, led by Rosell, of authorising a £1.7 million e-mail surveillance of club employees suspected of \"working against\" Barca's then president Joan Laporta. In March 2014, a judge cleared Soriano of these allegations.\n\nRosell resigned from the post of Barcelona president in January 2014, one day after a Spanish court opened an investigation into Barca's €57.1 million signing of Brazilian Neymar, for an alleged \"misappropriation of funds.\" In 2017, Rosell was jailed without bail after being accused of misappropriation of funds from the €57m signing of Neymar.\n\nIn September 2014, Soriano was found guilty in Spanair’s bankruptcy case and fined with £8.6 million. In May 2016, the decision was overturned by the appeal court judges who concluded that Spanair’s executives were acting in trying to \"save the company,\" and its subsequent bankruptcy was “fortuitous”.\n\n"}
{"id": "33132428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33132428", "title": "Financial Advisor (magazine)", "text": "Financial Advisor (magazine)\n\nFinancial Advisor is a monthly financial services magazine which delivers market information for financial advisors. Its articles focus on strategies and management advice for advisors of affluent clients. Its targeted readership includes financial planners, investment advisors, and broker-dealers.\n\n\"Financial Advisor\" is published by Charter Financial Publishing Network, Shrewsbury, New Jersey and has a circulation of 110,000 copies. The magazine is headquartered in Shrewsbury, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "30729200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30729200", "title": "Francisco Seeber", "text": "Francisco Seeber\n\nFrancisco Seeber (November 15, 1841 – December 13, 1913) was an Argentine military officer, businessman and Mayor of Buenos Aires.\n\nFrancisco Seeber was born in Buenos Aires to Sophia Taut and Magnus Seeber, both German Argentine immigrants. He completed his studies in Hamburg, Germany, and returned in 1859. He joined the Argentine Army, and fought in the Battle of Cepeda (1859) and as a Captain in the Paraguayan War in 1865 and 1866. Upon his return, he joined the editorial board of \"La Libertad\", and was elected to the Buenos Aires Province Legislature. He married Fanny Agrelo in 1868, and they had nine children.\n\nSeeber established a construction firm, Catalinas Warehouses and Pier Company, Ltd., in 1872. The firm obtained a municipal contract to construct the Catalina Docks (located along what later became the Catalinas Norte office park). Needing a large and steady supply of soil to level and grade the hitherto flood-prone site for the wharf, Seeber bought land in the then-desolate northwest end of the city with the intent of hauling soil to Catalinas for land reclamation. He recruited his workers mostly from Entre Ríos Province; they established a neighborhood (Villa Urquiza) there in 1887.\n\nSeeber was named President of the Buenos Aires Western Railway in 1887. He commissioned the construction of the important rail link between Córdoba and Buenos Aires. He invested in the city's first large-scale department store, \"Bon Marché\", and was appointed Mayor of Buenos Aires on May 10, 1889, by President Miguel Juárez Celman.\n\nHe continued his immediate predecessors' emphasis on public works, having 400 blocks of city streets paved, installing sanitation services in the impoverished La Boca district, establishing right-of-way ordinances for the city's growing traffic, and initiating the development of what later became Florida Street (today Buenos Aires' best known pedestrianized street). He also approved plans for what, during the 1920s, became Diagonal Norte Avenue as part of larger (never realized) design for a series of diagonal avenues downtown. Another plan approved during his tenure ultimately became Nueve de Julio Avenue in the 1930s, and his administration also began or completed the creation or improvement of numerous city parks and recreational and cultural sites, among them the Buenos Aires Zoo and the National Historical Museum.\n\nThe Panic of 1890 led to Seeber's resignation on June 4, and on June 22, he traveled to Germany. He represented Argentina in the 1894 Universal Peace Congress in Antwerp, where he was an early advocate for free trade. Seeber returned that year and took part in a commission to organize the nation's far-flung territories in Patagonia and the far north. Following an 1897 stay in Europe to study the organization of the Quartermaster Corps, he toured South America for an appreciation of prevailing conditions, about which he wrote in his 1903 survey, \"Argentina, Brasil, Chile, Uruguay, Perú, Bolivia y Paraguay: estudios comparativos\". Seeber, who also wrote numerous articles on his military studies in Europe, was named head of the Quartermaster's Advisory Board in Argentina.\n\nFrancisco Seeber retired in Buenos Aires, and died there in 1913 at age 72. He was interred in La Recoleta Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "57079939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57079939", "title": "Gavin Robinson (model agent)", "text": "Gavin Robinson (model agent)\n\nLawrence Gavin Bertran Robinson (25 October 1935 – 2002) was a South African model agent in London's Old Bond Street in the 1960s and 70s who was part of the Swinging London scene. His show at Mare Moda in Capri in 1969 was described by \"The Times\" as \"as zippy, as nippy and as hippy as anything seen in London's West End\", while a show for Harrods in 1970 was noted for his technique of making his models move to music like machines.\n\nLawrence Robinson was from Durban, South Africa, born on 25 October 1935. He worked as a male model early in his life.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, Robinson established a business as a model agent at 30 Old Bond Street in London where he traded as Gavin L. B. Robinson. According to the memoirs of Jo Wood, who was signed to the agency as a teenager in the mid 1960s, it was \"one of the hottest\" in London at the time and Robinson was \"very slim, trendy and had startlingly blond hair\". Wood recalled that she \"couldn't work out why he was so flamboyant, so ...\"feminine\"\". Other models on Robinson's books in the 1960s included Nikki Ross and Sonia Pugin. Barbara Molyneux claimed that the first ever head sheet was created for Robinson by Peter Marlowe by 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Robinson put on a show for 1,000 people in the courtyard of the Certosa di San Giacomo, a Carthusian monastery in Capri, for the finale of the Mare Moda festival. It was described by Antony King-Deacon of \"The Times\" as \"as zippy, as nippy and as hippy as anything seen in London's West End\". According to King-Deacon, Maria Antonelli's models \"were thrashing about with their arms and legs in a sort of frenzied apathy. On they ran, harem-scarem, wiggle, scream and they were gone.\" No one really saw or remembered the clothes, he complained. Robinson also produced the finale for the 1970 Mare Moda.\n\nIn March 1970, he put on a show at the Harrods department store titled \"Return of the Blues\" that King-Deacon saw as unusual in giving a major role to men's clothes, although the female models still outnumbered the men. King-Deacon praised Robinson for his ability to put on \"without apparent effort a fashion show of unparalleled chic\" and noted his technique of using models \"as though they were machines by making them walk, turn, bend and even bat their eyelids to the beat of the music\".Gavin continued to produce Harrods Fashion Shows throughout the 70's using many of the same models, Christer, Greg Sherriff, Brian King, Ian Buchanan, Alan McVie, Georgie, Iona Skye, Charlie Brown (former Miss South Africa) and Christian Fletcher. He Drove an old Bentley and held weekends for his models and a few photographers at his retreat \"the Barn\" in Horsmonden near Goudhurst, Kent. He loved cooking, collecting Owls (ceramic etc) and renovating his various houses in the Chelsea area. [11]\n\nRobinson later traded as Gavin's Models. In the mid 1970s, the male models at Gavin's were run by the former male model Gil Barber.\n\nRobinson died in Camden, London, in 2002. In 2013, he featured as a character in Raymond Russell's novel \"Deadly Endings\".\n"}
{"id": "255232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255232", "title": "Graduate Management Admission Test", "text": "Graduate Management Admission Test\n\nThe Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT ( ())) is a computer adaptive test (CAT) intended to assess certain analytical, writing, quantitative, verbal, and reading skills in written English for use in admission to a graduate management program, such as an MBA. It requires knowledge of certain specific grammar and knowledge of certain specific algebra, geometry, and arithmetic. According to the test owning company, the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC), the GMAT assesses analytical writing and problem-solving abilities, while also addressing data sufficiency, logic, and critical reasoning skills that it believes to be vital to real-world business and management success. It can be taken up to five times a year. Attempts must be at least 16 days apart.\n\nGMAT is a registered trademark of the Graduate Management Admission Council. More than 7,000 programs at approximately 2,300 graduate business schools around the world accept the GMAT as part of the selection criteria for their programs. Business schools use the test as a criterion for admission into a wide range of graduate management programs, including MBA, Master of Accountancy, Master of Finance programs and others. The GMAT is administered in standardized test centers in 114 countries around the world. According to a survey conducted by Kaplan Test Prep, the GMAT is still the number one choice for MBA aspirants despite the increasing acceptability of GRE scores. According to GMAC, it has continually performed validity studies to statistically verify that the exam predicts success in business school programs.\n\nIn 1953, the organization now called the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) began as an association of nine business schools, whose goal was to develop a standardized test to help business schools select qualified applicants. In the first year it was offered, the assessment (now known as the Graduate Management Admission Test), was taken just over 2,000 times; in recent years, it has been taken more than 230,000 times annually. Initially used in admissions by 54 schools, the test is now used by more than 7,000 programs at approximately 2,300 graduate business schools around the world. On June 5, 2012, GMAC introduced an integrated reasoning section to the exam that aims to measure a test taker’s ability to evaluate information presented in multiple formats from multiple sources.\n\nThe intended purpose of the GMAT is to predict student success in graduate business programs. According to GMAC, there is a .459 correlation (21% variance) between total GMAT scores and mid-program student grades based on data it collected between 1997 and 2004. Independent research has shown significantly different results. Independent research has shown that the GMAT can explain only 4.4% of the variance in final MBA GPA (Grade Point Average) while undergraduate GPA can explain 17.4% of the variance in final MBA GPA. Additionally, more recent independent research has shown that the GMAT does not add predictive validity after undergraduate GPA and work experience have been considered and that even undergraduate GPA alone can be used in lieu of considering the GMAT.\n\nThe GMAT exam consists of four sections: an analytical writing assessment, an integrated reasoning section, a quantitative section, and a verbal section. Total testing time is three hours and seven minutes. Test takers have 30 minutes for the analytical writing assessment and another 30 minutes to work through 12 questions, which often have multiple parts, on the integrated reasoning section and are given 62 minutes to work through 31 questions in the quantitative section and another 65 minutes to get through 36 questions in the verbal section.\n\nThe quantitative and verbal sections of the GMAT exam are both multiple-choice and are administered in the computer-adaptive format, adjusting to a test taker’s level of ability. At the start of the quantitative and verbal sections, test takers are presented with a question of average difficulty. As questions are answered correctly, the computer presents the test taker with increasingly difficult questions and as questions are answered incorrectly the computer presents the test taker with questions of decreasing difficulty. This process continues until test takers complete each section, at which point the computer will have an accurate assessment of their ability level in that subject area and come up with a raw score for each section.\n\nOn July 11, 2017, the GMAC announced that from now on the order in which the different parts of the GMAT are taken can be chosen at the beginning of the exam.\n\nThree options will be available at the test center:\n\nIn April 2018, the GMAC officially shortened the test by half an hour, shortening the verbal and quant sections from 75 minutes each to 65 and 62 minutes, respectively, and shortening some of the instruction screens.\n\nThe AWA consists of one 30-minute writing task—analysis of an argument. It is important to be able to analyze the reasoning behind a given argument and write a critique of that argument. The essay will be given two independent ratings and these ratings are averaged together to determine the test taker's AWA score. One rating is given by a computerized reading evaluation and another is given by a person at GMAC who will read and score the essay themselves without knowledge of what the computerized score was. The automated essay-scoring engine is an electronic system that evaluates more than 50 structural and linguistic features, including organization of ideas, syntactic variety, and topical analysis. If the two ratings differ by more than one point, another evaluation by an expert reader is required to resolve the discrepancy and determine the final score.\n\nThe analytical writing assessment is graded on a scale of 0 (minimum) to 6 (maximum) in half-point intervals (a score of zero means the answer was gibberish or obviously not written on the assigned topic or the test taker failed to write anything at all on the AWA).\n\nIntegrated Reasoning (IR) is a section introduced in June 2012 and is designed to measure a test taker’s ability to evaluate data presented in multiple formats from multiple sources. The skills being tested by the integrated reasoning section were identified in a survey of 740 management faculty worldwide as important for today’s incoming students. The integrated reasoning section consists of 12 questions (which often consist of multiple parts themselves) in four different formats: graphics interpretation, two-part analysis, table analysis, and multi-source reasoning. Integrated reasoning scores range from 1 to 8. Like the Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA), this section is scored separately from the quantitative and verbal section. Performance on the IR and AWA sections do not contribute to the total GMAT score.\n\nThe integrated reasoning section includes four question types: table analysis, graphics interpretation, multi-source reasoning, and two-part analysis. In the table analysis section, test takers are presented with a sortable table of information, similar to a spreadsheet, which has to be analyzed. Each question will have several statements with opposite-answer options (e.g., true/false, yes/no), and test takers click on the correct option. Graphics interpretation questions ask test takers to interpret a graph or graphical image. Each question has fill-in-the-blank statements with pull-down menus; test takers must choose the options that make the statements accurate. Multi-source reasoning questions are accompanied by two to three sources of information presented on tabbed pages. Test takers click on the tabs and examine all the relevant information, which may be a combination of text, charts, and tables to answer either traditional multiple-choice or opposite-answer (e.g., yes/no, true/false) questions. Two-part analysis questions involve two components for a solution. Possible answers are given in a table format with a column for each component and rows with possible options. Test takers have to choose one response per column.\n\nThe quantitative section of the GMAT seeks to measure the ability to reason quantitatively, solve quantitative problems, interpret graphic data, and analyze and use information given in a problem. Questions require knowledge of certain algebra, geometry, and arithmetic. There are two types of quantitative questions: problem solving and data sufficiency. The use of calculators is not allowed on the quantitative section of the GMAT. Test takers must do their math work out by hand using a wet erase pen and laminated graph paper which are given to them at the testing center. Scores range from 0 to 60, although GMAC only reports scores between 6 and 51.\n\nProblem solving questions are designed to test the ability to reason quantitatively and to solve quantitative problems. Data sufficiency is a question type unique to the GMAT designed to measure the ability to understand and analyze a quantitative problem, recognize what information is relevant or irrelevant and determine at what point there is enough information to solve a problem or recognize the fact that there is insufficient information given to solve a particular problem.\n\nThe verbal section of the GMAT exam includes the following question types: reading comprehension, critical reasoning, and sentence correction. Each question type gives five answer options from which to select. Verbal scores range from 0 to 60; however, scores below 9 or above 44 are rare.\n\nAccording to GMAC, the reading comprehension question type tests ability to analyze information and draw a conclusion. Reading comprehension passages can be anywhere from one to several paragraphs long. According to GMAC, the critical reasoning question type assesses reasoning skills. According to GMAC, the sentence correction question type tests grammar and effective communication skills. From the available answer options, the test taker should select the most effective construction that best expresses the intent of the sentence.\n\nThe total GMAT score ranges from 200 to 800 and measures performance on the quantitative and verbal sections together (performance on the AWA and IR sections do not count toward the total score, those sections are scored separately). Scores are given in increments of 10 (e.g. 540, 550, 560, 570, etc.).\n\nThe score distribution conforms to a bell curve with a standard deviation of approximately 120 points, meaning that about 68% of examinees score between 430 and 670. More precisely, over the three-year period 2014--2017 the mean score was 556.04 with a standard deviation of 120.45 points.\n\nThe final score is not based solely on the last question the examinee answers (i.e. the level of difficulty of questions reached through the computer adaptive presentation of questions). The algorithm used to build a score is more complicated than that. The examinee can make a mistake and answer incorrectly and the computer will recognize that item as an anomaly. If the examinee misses the first question his score will not necessarily fall in the bottom half of the range.\n\nAfter previewing his/her unofficial GMAT score, a GMAT test taker has two minutes to decide whether to keep or cancel a GMAT score at the test center. A test taker can also cancel a score online within the 72 hours after the scheduled exam start time. A cancelled score can be reinstated for 4 years and 11 months after the date of the test for a fee of $50.\n\nTest takers may register for the GMAT either online at mba.com or by calling one of the test centers. To schedule an exam, an appointment must be made at one of the designated test centers. The GMAT may not be taken more than once within 16 days but no more than five times in a rolling 12-month period and no more than eight times total, even if the scores are canceled. Official GMAT exam study materials are available on the mba.com online store and through third-party vendors. The cost of the exam is $250. All applicants are required to present valid ID when taking the test. Upon completion of the test, test takers have the option of canceling or reporting their scores. As of July 2014, test takers were allowed to view their score before making this decision.\n\nThere are test preparation companies that offer GMAT courses. Other available test preparation resources include university text books, GMAT preparation books, sample tests, and free web resources.\n\nIn order to effectively evaluate all candidates, some graduate schools offer GMAT Waivers. A GMAT waiver is designed for working professionals who have multiple years of experience and would like to forego taking the GMAT. If requesting a GMAT waiver, you must include a letter with your professional experience. The programs evaluate GMAT waivers on a case-by-case basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1962747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962747", "title": "HCL Technologies", "text": "HCL Technologies\n\nHCL Technologies Limited (Hindustan Computers Limited) is an Indian multinational technology company, headquartered in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. It is a subsidiary of HCL Enterprise. Originally a research and development division of HCL, it emerged as an independent company in 1991 when HCL ventured into the software services business.\n\nThe company has offices in 39 countries including the United States, France and Germany, and the United Kingdom with a worldwide network of R&D, \"innovation labs\" and \"delivery centers\", and 120,000+ employees and its customers include 250 of the Fortune 500 and 650 of the Global 2000 companies. It operates across sectors including aerospace and defense, automotive, banking, capital markets, chemical and process industries, consumer goods, energy and utilities, healthcare, hi-tech, industrial manufacturing, insurance, life sciences, manufacturing, media and entertainment, mining and natural resources, oil and gas, retail, telecom, and travel, transportation, logistics & hospitality.\n\nHCL Technologies is on the Forbes Global 2000 list. It is among the top 20 largest publicly traded companies in India with a market capitalisation of $18.7 billion as of May 2017. As of May 2018, the company, along with its subsidiaries, had a consolidated revenue of $7.8 billion.\n\nHCL Enterprise was founded in 1976.\n\nThe first three subsidiaries of parent HCL Enterprise were:\n\nThe company tried to stay focused on hardware, but, via HCL Technologies, software and services is a main focus.\n\nRevenues for 2007 were US$4.9 billion. \nRevenues for 2017 were US$6.5 billion, and HCL employed over 105,000 professionals in 31 countries.\n\nA unit named HCL Enterprise Solutions (India) Limited was formed in July 2001.\nIn 1976, a group of six engineers, all former employees of Delhi Cloth & General Mills, led by Shiv Nadar, started a company that would make personal computers. Initially floated as Microcomp Limited, Nadar and his team (which also included Arjun Malhotra, Ajai Chowdhry, D.S. Puri, Yogesh Vaidya and Subhash Arora) started selling teledigital calculators to gather capital for their main product. On 11 August 1976, the company was renamed Hindustan Computers Limited (HCL).\n\nOn 12 November 1991, a company called HCL Overseas Limited was incorporated as a provider of technology development services. It received the certificate of commencement of business on 10 February 1992 after which it began its operations. Two years later, in July 1994, the company name was changed to HCL Consulting Limited and eventually to HCL Technologies Limited in October 1999.\n\nHCL Technologies is one of the four companies under HCL Corporation, the second company being HCL Infosystems. In February 2014 HCL launched HCL Healthcare. HCL TalentCare is the fourth and latest venture of HCL Corporation.\n\nHCL Technologies began as the R&D Division of HCL Enterprise, a company which was a contributor to the development and growth of the IT and computer industry in India. HCL Enterprise developed an indigenous microcomputer in 1978, and a networking OS and client-server architecture in 1983. On 12 November 1991, HCL Technologies was spun off as a separate unit to provide software services.\n\nHCL Technologies was originally incorporated as HCL Overseas Limited. The name was changed to HCL Consulting Limited on 14 July 1994. On 6 October 1999, the company was renamed 'HCL Technologies Limited' for \"a better reflection of its activities.\" Between 1991 and 1999, the company expanded its software development capacities to the US, European and APAC markets.\n\nThe company went public on 10 November 1999, with an issue of 14.2 million shares, valued at ₹4 each. During 2000, the company set up an offshore development centre in Chennai, India, for KLA-Tencor Corporation.\n\nIn 2002, it acquired Gulf Computers Inc.\n\nOn April 12, 2018 USA-based Actian announced that it will be acquired by HCL Technologies for $330 million.\n\nOn 23 July 2015, CSC (NYSE: CSC) and HCL Technologies (BSE: HCLTECH) announced a joint venture agreement to form a banking software and services company, Celeriti FinTech.\n\nIn October 2017, IBM struck a \"strategic partnership\" with HCL Technologies that had the latter firm take over development of the IBM Lotus Software's Notes, Domino, Sametime and Verse collaboration tools.\n\nIn May 2018, HCL Technologies announced that it has joined hands with Transportation Alliance (BITA), known for incorporating blockchain in the transportation industry, to implement blockchain.\n\nOn 16 June 2015 PC maker DELL announced a strategic distribution partnership with HCL Infosystems\n\nHCL Technologies operate in 34 countries, including its headquarters in Noida, India. It has establishments in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. In Europe it covers Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In the Americas, the company has offices in Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and the United States.\n\n\nA subsidiary of HCL Technologies, HCL Infrastructure Services Division (ISD) is an IT services company. Headquartered in Delhi, NCR, India, HCL ISD was instituted in 1993 with the objective to address the demand for cost-effective management of technology infrastructure across geographically dispersed locations. \nHCL ISD, also known as HCL Comnet Systems and Services Ltd. in India, diversified its portfolio to provide end-to-end enterprise IT infrastructure solutions globally in 1993 winning the first order to establish India's first floorless stock exchange in order to achieve superior infrastructure performance and significantly reduced costs\n\n\nHCL ISD's services span across stages of IT infrastructure lifecycle, including data center design, migration & rollout planning, process design, service delivery structure design, implementation & rollouts, and day-to-day operations across infrastructure elements such as servers, storage, mainframes, databases, end user devices, network devices, security devices, web services, applications, mainframes, infrastructure applications & process and tools.\n\nThe company's vertical reach spans across industries including automotive, energy (oil & gas) and utilities, financial services, high-tech, insurance, manufacturing, retail, travel, tourism and logistics, banking, life science, health care and pharmaceuticals, telecom and media, publishing and entertainment.\n\nOn 7 September 2005, HCL Technologies expanded its operations base in County Armagh and Belfast in Northern Ireland. At the 2006 UK Trade and Investment India Business Awards in New Delhi, the then UK Prime Minister Tony Blair announced the expansion, which was aimed at creating more IT and BPO jobs in the area. HCL acquired the Armagh-based Answer all Direct earlier in 2005. HCL BPO services in Ireland are carried out through its main delivery centres in Armagh and Belfast. In November 2011, after HCL revealed an expansion plan in County Kilkenny in the Irish Republic, its Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) division in Northern Ireland won a contract for back-office services from the Department of Health. It was aimed at increasing the number of jobs and other employment opportunities in the region.\n\nHCL Enterprise's Infosystems subsidiary, as of 2015, was still active.\n\nThis part of HCL was formed in 1976 to produce calculators.\n\nAdditionally, since 2006, the company conducts monthly and biennial concerts to provide a platform for upcoming young Indian classical artists to showcase their talent.\n\nHCL runs a multi-layered program \"Go Green\" as a part of its continued sustainability initiatives.\n\nIn addition, it is also:\n\nHCL has been involved in criticism and litigation involving the H-1B visa program to replace U.S. Workers with cheaper foreign labor, including the Disney collusion lawsuit, and the heavily reported case of replacing University of California's San Francisco Medical Center IT workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "15593021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15593021", "title": "Hammerjack's", "text": "Hammerjack's\n\nHammerjacks Concert Hall and Nightclub was a large concert hall in downtown Baltimore through the 1980s and into the 1990s owned by Louis J. Principio III The club attracted many big-name national acts, but also showcased many rising stars in the music world. The bands ranged from punk, glam, and heavy metal acts most commonly associated with the venue (e.g., Guns n Roses, Kix, Ratt, Skid Row or Extreme) to pop (e.g., Badfinger) and alternative rock groups (e.g., Goo Goo Dolls). The club was often frequented by hard core patrons and musicians donning big hair, leather, lace, spandex, and heavy makeup, and was considered a \"hard rock shrine.\" Hamerjacks, however, attracted audiences with other attire as well. It was torn down on June 12, 1997 to make way for M&T Bank Stadium parking lot. Hammerjacks was billed as \"The largest nightclub on the east coast.\"\n\nA third version of Hammerjacks opened in a different location, which had formerly been used as a car wash, in Baltimore. It was then put under new management in 2004, but has now been closed.\n\nThe club was featured in the John Waters' 1994 film \"Serial Mom\", with grunge band L7 playing the band Camel Lips. It was the location where Kathleen Turner's character Beverly Sutphin was arrested for murder. Interior and exterior views of the club have been featured in music videos, including the band Kix. An image of a sign for the club appeared on the Iron Maiden album \"Somewhere In Time\".\n\nAs of July 2, 2011, the Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) listed five different records pertaining to the trademark \"Hammerjacks.\" The only active application for the trademark was by Hammerhouse Designs LLC. The attorney of record was Lawrence E. Laubscher, Jr. The resident agent was listed as Kevin Butler. The application for this trademark was filed January 27, 2011 and published for opposition April 19, 2011. The other records pertain to abandoned applications and registrations. Official merchandise can still be purchased on the Hammerjacks' website, which is operated by Hammerhouse Designs. In 2010 Kevin Butler acquired the lapsed trademark. Kevin Butler has made extensive plans and investment to open a new 57,000 sq. foot nightclub nearby the old location.\n\nOn Saturday 11/7/15 at the “Hammerjacks Rocks the Red Carpet” party held at Game, Hammerjacks Entertainment Group (HEG) Owner and Anne Arundel County resident Kevin Butler, along with partner Andy Hotchkiss, announced that the music venue and club will open at 1300 Russell St. across from M&T Bank Stadium. The 48,000 sq. ft. club will take the place of Paradox as well as a currently vacant warehouse facing Ostend St. that was most recently the home to a ceramic tile company. Paradox recently announced it will be closing.\n\nHammerjacks originally announced a $20 million new-construction project for the club at Lot N by M&T Bank Stadium. However, as the city was studying the impacts to the adjacent Carroll-Camden Industrial Area to change the zoning at the property, a better opportunity across the street at 1300 Russell St. came about. The site already had the zoning needed for a liquor license and live entertainment. The new project is expected to cost $8 million to complete.\n\nThe new Hammerjacks will feature a 2,500-person concert area that can be modified down for smaller shows, a club/sports bar area that will feature smaller 300-person live music shows, and an outdoor courtyard area. Butler told SouthBMore.com he has been contacted by several national entertainment companies interested in booking shows at Hammerjacks. The club can also be modified to various sizes for corporate events, business meetings, high school reunions, weddings, and private events. HEG will also be leasing 4,000 sq. ft. of retail space on the property that will face Ostend St. Butler said “plenty” of parking will be available.\n\nThere will also be what Butler is calling “a large outdoor courtyard for seasonal events, sports events, and tailgating” at the venue.\n\n“The process that led up to this announcement has been long and, at times, tedious,” said Butler in a press release, “but that was all part of the effort, by myself and our partners, to make the new Hammerjacks an entertainment facility and a destination that is worthy of the name. I know that our fans and the area business community will be impressed and excited by our plans as we write the next chapter of our long, successful story.”\n\nButler added that Hammerjacks will be “a cornerstone” of the new Warner St. entertainment corridor.\n\nLots H and J at M&T Bank Stadium are a tribute to the former Hammerjacks music venue that once stood at its second and most popular location at 1101 S. Howard St. Hammerjacks’ original location was at 1024 S. Charles St. in Federal Hill, the current home of Nobles Bar and Grill, and a later version opened at 316 Guilford Ave. downtown. Butler was unaffiliated with either of the previous three locations, but obtained the rights to the Hammerjacks trademark in 2009 for $1,000.\n\nHammerjacks’ heyday was from 1987 to 1990 according to Butler when it garnered the title of one of VH1’s Top 5 rock venues. Butler was there for many shows in that era, seeing Guns N’ Roses, The Ramones, L.A. Guns, Warrant, Joan Jett, KIX, and more. “Hammerjacks was so popular that bands like Journey and Def Leppard would hang out there when they were in town for bigger shows,” said Butler. Iron Maiden even had a picture of Hammerjacks in their record sleeve at one point, Butler noted.\n\nTo honor Hammerjacks’ former glory, Butler told SouthBMore.com that a large dedication piece with pictures and items from the old venue will be well represented and that they are definitely planning some 1980s events. While honoring its roots, the new Hammerjacks will be a venue for all genres of music.\n\nButler is very excited about the future of the area. “In one area you are going to have a world-class baseball stadium, a world-class football stadium, a world-class casino and, now, a world-class concert venue,” he said.\n\nButler has developed a good relationship with Caesars Entertainment (Horseshoe Baltimore) and believes the public will soon see many new taverns and developments joining them in the area as well.\n\nConstruction is expected to start in early 2016 and Hammerjacks is slated to open in time for a New Year’s Eve celebration next year.\n\nThe original owner, Louis J. Principio Jr, is not affiliated in any way with the new Venture, the new Majority owner is Kevin Butler.\n\n"}
{"id": "683797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683797", "title": "Human Events", "text": "Human Events\n\nHuman Events was a conservative American political news and analysis newspaper and website. Founded in 1944 as a print newspaper, \"Human Events\" became a digital-only publication in 2013.\n\n\"Human Events\" takes its name from the first sentence of the United States Declaration of Independence: \"When in the course of human events...\".\n\nThe magazine was published in Washington, D.C., most recently by Eagle Publishing, the owner of Regnery Publishing, a subsidiary of Phillips Publishing. Thomas S. Winter was editor-in-chief and Cathy Taylor was editorial director of the print edition.\n\nRegular writers included Robert Novak, Ann Coulter, Terence P. Jeffrey, Pat Buchanan, and John Gizzi, its chief political editor. Occasional contributors have included Sean Hannity, Newt Gingrich, and Paul Craig Roberts, and Cliff Kincaid. Many prominent conservative journalists wrote for \"Human Events\" before moving on to other publications, such as Neil W. McCabe, now a national political reporter at Breitbart News and Brian H. Darling, who wrote the very influential \"Legislative Lowdown\" column, and is now a columnist at \"The New York Observer\".\n\n\"Human Events\" was founded in 1944 by Felix Morley, who was from 1933 to 1940 the editor of \"The Washington Post\"; Frank Hanighen, veteran journalist James Wick and former New Dealer Henry Regnery.\n\nIn June 1949, \"Human Events\" published a letter written by Josée Laval, the daughter of Vichy France Prime Minister Pierre Laval and wife of attorney René de Chambrun, addressed to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill in 1948. In the letter, she was critical of Churchill's support for the French resistance, and she suggested the firing squad who killed her father \"wore British uniforms\".\n\nIn 1951, Frank Chodorov, former director of the Henry George School of Social Science in New York, replaced Morley as editor, merging his newsletter, \"analysis\", into \"Human Events\". In June 1953 Freda Utley wrote an article for the publication where she criticized the awarding of the Sudetenland to Czechoslovakia, stating: \"all that much-abused Neville Chamberlain did was agree to the self-determination of the people of the Sudentenland...which never would have been awarded to the Czechs if Wilson's Fourteen Points had been adhered to\".\n\nBy the early 1960s, Allan Ryskind (son of Morrie Ryskind) and Winter had acquired the publication. Contributors to \"Human Events\" from the 1960s to the 1980s included Spiro Agnew, James L. Buckley, Peter Gemma, Pat Buchanan, Ralph de Toledano, Russell Kirk, Phyllis Schlafly, Murray Rothbard and Henry Hazlitt. \"Newsweek\" noted although \"Human Events\" did not have a large readership outside the Washington D.C. area, \"the tough little tabloid enjoys an impact out of all proportion to its circulation\".\n\n\"Human Events\" backed US military intervention in the Vietnam War; after the war ended, the publication blamed American liberals for the collapse of South Vietnam.\n\n\"Human Events\" gave qualified support to Apartheid South Africa, describing the country as \"a pro-Western bulwark that provides more in the way of freedom and wealth to its blacks than the vast majority of black African states\". \"Human Events\" also described Nelson Mandela as the main obstacle to peace in South Africa: \"While President Botha is moving at a fast and furious pace to end the apartheid system, Mandela remains as adamant a revolutionary as ever. He's still a Marxist, still a man of violence, still a supporter of the Communist-run ANC\". It was not without sympathy for the plight of blacks under the system however, giving black power activist Steve Biko a thoughtful obituary. The perspective offered throughout was that Marxist rule in South Africa was the worst option, however bad others might be.\n\nEagle Publishing placed the magazine up for sale in February 2013, when it announced that it would close the publication if no buyer could be found. On February 27, 2013, \"Human Events\" announced that, after 69 years, it would halt publication of the print edition but would continue to maintain the websites HumanEvents.com and RedState.com with original reporting. Eagle Publishing, which acquired the magazine in 1993, said that it had been subsidizing the publication for several years but could no longer afford to do so: \"the realities of the 24-hour news cycle and the brutal economics of a weekly print publication have become insurmountable.\"\n\n\"Human Events\" printed 40,000 copies per week and had a staff of 15 full-time employees. A \"restructuring\" plan that involved layoffs had already been attempted but was insufficient to allow continuation of the print edition.\n\nIn January 2014, Eagle Publishing was acquired by Salem Communications.\n\n\"Human Events\" was former U.S. President Ronald Reagan's \"favorite reading for years,\" writes biographer Richard Reeves. A loyal subscriber since 1961, Reagan said it “helped me stop being a liberal Democrat,” calling it \"must reading for conservatives who want to know what is really going on in Washington, D.C.\" Reagan contributed some articles to \"Human Events\" in the 1970s. During the 1980 presidential campaign, Democrats released a document entitled \"Ronald Reagan, Extremist Collaborator—An Exposé,\" in which, according to biographer Lee Edwards, \"[a]mong the proofs of Reagan's extremism was that he read the conservative weekly \"Human Events\".\" After being elected President, Reagan would occasionally write or call Winter or Ryskind.\n\n\"\"Human Events\", however, was no favorite of the new men around Reagan,\" writes Reeves. \"Baker and Darman, and Deaver too, did their best each week to keep it out of the reading material they gave the President.\" \"When he discovered White House aides were blocking its delivery, President Reagan arranged for multiple copies to be sent to the White House residence every weekend,\" writes Edwards, who adds that Reagan took care \"marking and clipping articles and passing them along to his assistants.\"\n\nJust before his 1982 tax hike, Reagan met with what he called \"some of my old friends from \"Human Events\"\" (he mentioned Ryskind and M. Stanton Evans), who warned him about \"disloyal\" White House staff (in particular James Baker) who favored making a deal on taxes with the Democratic Congress. (Reagan subsequently made such a deal, in which for each $1 in higher taxes Congress promised $3 in spending cuts. Ultimately, both taxes and spending increased.)\n\nAt the 1986 Reykjavík Summit, Reagan told Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev that he could not give up the Strategic Defense Initiative because \"'...the people who were the most outspoken critics of the Soviet Union over the years’—he mentioned his favorite paper, \"Human Events\",\" according to Reeves, \"‘They’re kicking my brains out’.\"\n\nIn 2005, \"Human Events\" published a list of \"Ten Most Harmful Books of the 19th and 20th Centuries\":\n\nBeing voted on by two or more of their judges, twenty additional books received \"honorable mention\", including \"The Origin of Species\", by Charles Darwin; \"Unsafe at Any Speed\", by Ralph Nader; and \"Silent Spring\", by Rachel Carson.\n\n"}
{"id": "28893229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28893229", "title": "I-VMS", "text": "I-VMS\n\nThe I-VMS Model (Integrated Value-added Management System) is emphasizes the surplus-value creation of to achieves the radically new approach in economics science by in practice applicable, the management of human resources potential based.\nIn the collaboration implemented company's management model is able to increase efficiency in the management of organizational / structural unit without their conversion. The model is a value-enhancing, integrated, networked, three-dimensional complex -internal value-based- control system, which allows for more efficient management.\n\nIn the management's world the principles, basic competences and basic priority's identifications are the key-importance, because these determine the values of internal relations and concepts, which derive a reasonable activities of the organizations and ultimately the company's earnings.\nThe management researchers over the past several decades, the theoretical concept have been created, which model-like-uses given much impetus to the perception of business managers, the value of corporate processes and more accurate perceptions of the various interests involved in a more realistic choice. This thesis presents a new management model theoretical concept's which is eliminates the main mistakes of the previous models and combining the management's resources in a radically new integrated system oriented approach, while allowing the management's higher level control ever then before.\n\nThe I-VMS management model would like to do to central idea the value-creating process therefore it remain be competitive, however would be built to an advanced, integrated networked-system-model. The developed management model fit to the most modern challenges and demands with the following requirements:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSummary: the new management model for the linear functional approach instead of to be function as a network, system approach model, which is much more advanced in the present age is much better suited to the challenges of the management approach lends perspective. The main advantages of the new management concept can be allow the cooperation between organization's traditional structures and can help to remove the organization's functional barriers.\n\nThe integrated value-creating and value-adding management system’s (as I-VMS) essence is: do not concentrate to value-creating activities chain but allows a new three pillar system-approach which is realize the activities integrated conception.\n\nThe system-model is finding basic- and support focus areas synergy.\n\n\"„This technology place the conscious management to center and give back the control to management’s hands overall values and processes more in complex systems too.”\"\n\nIn the model applied an integrated systematic-approach is breaking the previous function-approach so it allows the cooperation of certain areas activity without domination, competing in cooperation of the value-dimension increase, but some areas set to center (to focus point) and creates increase and concentration of the value-dimension. In the presented model system approach's advantages is the multi-granularity, which has a result of all the system-constituents with the same of modeling technique to analyze further in the desired depth. The subsystems are integrated into broader scheme, while are exploring the inner structure and are set up network connections.\nThe synthesizable advantage is that the individual components are building as blocks, or molecular way to more complicated structures to form, while its preserves in the simply a transparent structure through the focus-triples.\n\nOn demand developed dynamic relationships are shaping the model's variability, i.e. is built a logical system which is adapt to the testing organization or it is give a new approach and new perspectives to management in the value's coordination.\n\nThe basic idea of the model structure can be traced back to the so-called focus triplets. All of system unit based on three core-functions (i.e. the main or primary focus-area), and three support operations (i.e., complementary or supporting focus-area).The core and supporting activities are not linked to the chain-like, but targeted to the same focus areas. The core and supporting activities can be represents by two interlocked triangles, which are constitute goal-directed focus-triplets.\n\nThe management is on the focus point of model's first level which performance can be primarily maximized. The management function's maximize is means the management can be able to understand and recognizing the consumer needs, so can be able to convert to optimized organization-function, so that during the process generate maximum customer-value.\n\nThe model's second level is based on the main-function's analysis which primarily contributes to the management's performance.\n\n\"The effective innovation’s bases:\"\n\n\"The effective human resource’s bases:\"\n\n\"The bases of effective financial:\"\n\nThe functional analysis in an integrated approach to provide an interesting perspective which are legible and explore from dimension of support-activities links. Some of the functions multiple appearance attention at multifunctionality and multi-dimensional goal-system.\n\nThe model's third level based on the support activity’s deeper analysis which is themselves contribution greatly to the base-activities core power level or through the base-activities edges of triangles manifested synergy.\n\nComplex model (total dimensional of ganglion network structure): \nAlthough the new model is not directly intended, but it can be the complex system's system elements integrity and complex representation which provides profitable links and management perspectives through the analysis.\n\nThe model is suitable to show the complex network of activities and the management can be find more useful interfaces with their analysis. Further modeling aspect can be realize points represent the modeling aspect, if we step out of a two-dimensional representation's constraint and we will create a real three-dimensional network model.\n\nPossible to show the logistics functions with three-dimensional shift which is overlap with management's previously shown support activities. The resulting layout highlights is shows the necessary central role of the logistics management which is gives projection of entire organization operational material and information flows.\n\nThe integrated system-approach management model has a primary merit: central role of logistics in the Model by I-VMS's structural advantage.\nManagement, as managing, organizing and strategic focus area, cannot function without adequate information and support. Management needs to have a basic support, but at the same time cooperating organizational units, such as logistics, which is driving the quality and strategic value of information set will perform.\n\n– Over the logistics function, focus-triplet model's examination we are obtaining the management's projection, which is the same as the support functions of management's extension. In other words, the management's support activities are consistent with logistics core functions.\n\nBy placing the logistics into a high priority, i.e. key position the model can be properly manage the interoperability between the value dimensions. The model is can be capable to mapping the complex activity-network and with analysis of interfaces the management can be found for further valuable intervention points. The aforementioned three-dimensional network model provides give additional modeling aspect to analysis.\n\nA graphical spatial offset representation of the logistics function can be possible, which is overlap by the logistics core functions over the management's previously shown support functions. The received layout is necessarily highlights the central role of logistics management, which can be representing the overall organizational financial and operational information flow. In other words, the logistics can be integrating the other management (information and financial) functions.\nThis approach in practice is useful because it helps to understand the real value-formation and flow structure, while avoiding the previously mentioned value torsion, which stems from some features (for example: marketing) excessive emphasis.\n\nThe logistics department has a central role in the management to give a new approach to management which the information and material type of market structure in a useful gain first mover advantage. A new kind of light will be on strategic planning, which includes not only the material things in management, but also the values and surplus-value recognition and also deal with the integration strategy.\nAccording to the model are often rated at the bottom of logistics has no longer a secondary role in a company by strategic planning and key performing unit, but also has serious and formers harmony-creator function.\n\nThe model's innovation is that: over the two-dimensional can be increase the value dimensions and with endowed key-position role can be bring new concept into the company management.\n"}
{"id": "1117197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117197", "title": "ISO 15022", "text": "ISO 15022\n\nISO 15022 is an ISO standard for messaging used in transactions between financial institutions. Participants in the financial industry need a common representation of the financial transactions they perform and this standard defines general message schema, which in turn are used by organizations to define messages in a complete and unambiguous way. This results in efficiency, lower costs, and the avoidance of errors. Prior to standardization in this area, there were overlapping standards, or ad hoc approaches where there was a functional gap and no standard.\n\nISO 15022 replaces the previous securities messaging standard ISO 7775. It provides two syntaxes: one compatible with the preceding standards, and one fairly compatible with EDIFACT. ISO 20022 is the successor to ISO 15022.\nSWIFT is the Registration Authority for ISO 15022. In SWIFT Financial messages, the standard is applied to variety of .\n\nISO 15022 was developed in 1995 to provide the securities industry with a better tool to create message standards. The previous standard ISO 7775 contained the actual message standards themselves (like the SWIFT message types MT 520 or MT 534), which did not make it easy to make changes to these standards (because each time one needs to pass a number of time-consuming standard cycles). To avoid this, ISO 15022 does not contain the actual messages, but contains a set of rules and guidelines to build messages. If these rules and guidelines are adhered to (checked by the registration authority) the resulting message (format) is automatically an ISO 15022-compliant standard. Examples are the MT103, MT202 Cov, MT540, MT542, MT548, etc.\n\nISO 15022 is split into two parts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1411421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411421", "title": "Iain Murray, 10th Duke of Atholl", "text": "Iain Murray, 10th Duke of Atholl\n\n(George) Iain Murray, 10th Duke of Atholl DL (19 June 1931 – 27 February 1996), known as \"Wee Iain\", was a Scottish peer and landowner.\n\nMurray was the only surviving child of Lieutenant-Colonel George Anthony Murray (1907–1945), who was killed in action in the Second World War, and the Honourable Angela Pearson (1910–1981), daughter of Weetman Pearson, 2nd Viscount Cowdray. He was a great-grandson of Sir George Murray, grandson of the Right Reverend George Murray, son of the Right Reverend Lord George Murray, second son of John Murray, 3rd Duke of Atholl who in turn was eldest son of renowned Scottish Jacobite Lord George Murray. Through his American great grandfather General Daniel Frost he was a descendant of the Winthrop family and a distant cousin to former Secretary of State John Kerry.\n\nHe attended both Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, before succeeding the 9th duke, his fourth cousin twice removed James Stewart-Murray, 9th Duke of Atholl, as 10th Duke of Atholl in 1957. With a height of six feet, five inches, he was one of the tallest Scottish peers, leading to the whimsical name of \"Wee Iain\".\n\nAtholl inherited an estate of approximately 120,000 acres (496 km)—although this was a decline from the 190,000 acres (769 km) in the 19th century, it was still a smaller decline than many other Scottish estates. Under his stewardship, the estate in and around Blair Castle became a significant area for tourism and forestry, on which he was an acknowledged expert and spoke many times in the House of Lords, having been elected a Scottish Representative Peer in 1958. In addition, he resurrected the Atholl Highlanders, the ceremonial private army of the dukedom composed of estate workers and family friends, as a tourist attraction.\n\nHe was an active member of the Conservative Monday Club. He also held several business appointments, notably as Chairman of BPM Holdings between 1972 and 1983 and of Westminster Press Group between 1974 and 1996 and as a director of Pearson Longman between 1975 and 1983. In 1980 he was appointed a Deputy Lieutenant of Perth and Kinross.\n\nAtholl died unmarried in February 1996, aged 64, with the titles passing to his second cousin, once removed John Murray, a South African land surveyor. The day before the death of the 10th Duke, it was announced that he had given Blair Castle and most of his estates to a charitable trust, thus effectively disinheriting his heir. The new duke had indicated he had little interest in leaving South Africa, and though he honoured the land of his origins, felt \"I am a South African, not a Scotsman.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13718558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718558", "title": "Isyaku Ibrahim", "text": "Isyaku Ibrahim\n\nIsyaku Ibrahim (also spelled Isiaku) is a Kano-based Nigerian politician and businessman. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) and is President of the Nigeria Universities Games Association (NUGA). \n\nIbrahim was a member of Nigeria's parliament in the early 1960s, before the nation's first military coup.\n\nIbrahim was a founding member of the PDP, and remains on its Board of Trustees. He initially backed Alex Ekwueme for the PDP presidential nomination in the 1999 elections, but Ekweume lost out to Olusegun Obasanjo. Ibrahim switched to supporting Obasanjo, who won the nomination and election. However, he has since criticized Obasanjo for showing \"no respect for the rule of law\", and said that although Umaru Yar'Adua has taken over as President, Obasanjo is still \"the de facto ruler of Nigeria\".\n\nHe also criticized the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, fellow PDP member Patricia Etteh, diverging from his party's official policy of supporting her amidst corruption allegations.\n"}
{"id": "32374459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32374459", "title": "Mayer Lehman", "text": "Mayer Lehman\n\nMayer Lehman (January 9, 1830 – June 21, 1897) was a German-born American businessman, banker, and philanthropist. He was one of the three founding brothers of the investment bank Lehman Brothers.\n\nMayer Lehman was born in 1830 to a German Jewish family in the small Franconian town of Rimpar near Würzburg. He was the son of a cattle merchant, Abraham Löw Lehmann.\n\nIn 1850, Mayer emigrated to the United States, joining his brothers, Henry Lehman (b. 1822) and Emanuel Lehman in Montgomery, Alabama. His brother Henry had left Germany in 1844 and opened a dry goods store named \"H. Lehman\". His brother Emanuel left Germany in 1847 and joined Henry in his business endeavor, which they renamed \"H. Lehman and Bro.\" With the arrival of Mayer in 1850, it became Lehman Brothers.\n\nAs cotton was the most important crop of the Southern United States and global demand led to profitable business, the Lehman brothers became cotton factors, accepting cotton bales from customers as payment for their merchandise. Cotton trading eventually became the main thrust of their business. Mayer was also one of twenty men who established the first important iron furnace in the South before the war.\n\nMayer Lehman supported the Southern cause during the American Civil War. Mayer was listed as the owner of seven slaves (\"three males and four females ranging in age from 5 to 50\") in the U.S. Census of 1860. In 1864, the Governor of Alabama, Thomas H. Watts, appointed Mayer as a Commissioner to visit and look after the interests of Alabama Confederate soldiers being held as prisoners of war in the North. Other offers of public position were made to him but he declined.\n\nIn 1855, his brother Henry died from yellow fever while travelling in New Orleans. In 1867, Mayer and Emanuel moved the company's headquarters to New York City, eventually building it into an important American investment bank, which was in operation for over 150 years until its September 2008 collapse.\n\nMayer Lehman was one of the organizers of the New York Cotton Exchange, the oldest commodities exchange in New York City, and served as its director. Mayer Lehman concentrated on the railroad, land, industrial and mining enterprises of the business. He served as the director of The Hamilton Bank, The American Cotton Oil Company, The Union Oil Company of Providence, Rhode Island, and The N.K. Fairbank Company of Chicago.\n\nMayer Lehman took an active interest in philanthropic work and was a trustee of Temple Emanu-El as well as a generous giver to the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City.\nHe was also a member of the Harmonie Club.\n\nIn 1858, Mayer Lehman married Babetta Newgass, the daughter of Isaac Newgass. Together they had eight children of which seven survived childhood:\n\nThe couple were Reform Jews who, although they always observed the religious holidays, frowned on many other religious traditions and practices, instead focusing on educating their children in language, history and culture. The one tradition that Mayer emphasized was the Jewish tradition of tsedaka or the joy of giving. In order to instill the importance of charity into his children, Mayer would take his three youngest — Arthur, Irving and Herbert — to Mount Sinai Hospital every Sunday to see the great needs of the less fortunate.\n\nMayer Lehman died in 1897.\n"}
{"id": "26334840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334840", "title": "Michael Vasileiou", "text": "Michael Vasileiou\n\nMichael Vasileiou () was a Greek 19th-century merchant and benefactor. He was born in Ottoman occupied Gjirokastër, in modern Albania.\n\nHe was the brother of Alexandros Vasileiou, merchant, scholar and student of Adamantios Korais, a major figure of the Greek Enlightenment movement. Michael Vasileiou ran his trade business in Constantinople (modern Istambul), where he lived most of his life and succeeded in becoming one of the most successful businessmen among the members of the Greek community in the Ottoman capital.\n\nHe supported financially several issues of the \"Hermes o Logios\" () literary newspaper, published in Vienna as well the Greek translation of the \"French codex for merchants\" (, in 1817).\n\nTwo of his daughters (Efrosyni and Smaragda) married members of the Mellas family, which was also financially strong in the local Greek community of that time.\n"}
{"id": "37428256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37428256", "title": "Nicholas Nahas", "text": "Nicholas Nahas\n\nNicholas Nahas (born 28 November 1946) is a Lebanese businessman, politician and the current minister of economy.\n\nNahas was born in Tripoli on 28 November 1946. He received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from Saint Joseph University in Lebanon in 1972 Then he attended the postgraduate ISMP program at Harvard Business School in 1992. and received a degree in business administration there.\n\nNahas began his career as a businessman in varied fields. In 2005, he was appointed by then prime minister Najib Mikati as the chief economical counsellor. Nahas was appointed minister of economy and trade on 13 June 2011 to the cabinet led by Najib Mikati. He is one of the government ministers appointed by the prime minister in the cabinet.\n\nNahas is married to Antoinette Haidar and has three children.\n"}
{"id": "1925618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925618", "title": "Olive oil extraction", "text": "Olive oil extraction\n\nOlive oil extraction is the process of extracting the oil present in olive drupes, known as olive oil. Olive oil is produced in the mesocarp cells, and stored in a particular type of vacuole called a lipo vacuole, i.e., every cell contains a tiny olive oil droplet. Olive oil extraction is the process of separating the oil from the other fruit contents (vegetative extract liquid and solid material). It is possible to attain this separation by physical means alone, i.e., oil and water do not mix, so they are relatively easy to separate. This contrasts with other oils that are extracted with chemical solvents, generally hexane. The first operation when extracting olive oil is washing the olives, to reduce the presence of contaminants, especially soil which can create a particular flavor effect called \"soil taste\".\n\nPeople have used olive presses since Greeks first began pressing olives over 5,000 years ago. Roman olive presses survive to the present time, with a notable collection present at Volubilis in Morocco. An olive press works by applying pressure to olive paste to separate the liquid oil and vegetation water from the solid material. The oil and vegetation water are then separated by standard decantation.\n\nThis basic method is still widely used today, and it is still a valid way of producing high quality olive oil if adequate precautions are taken.\n\nFirst the olives are ground into an olive paste using large millstones at an oil mill. The olive paste generally stays under the stones for 30‑40 minutes. This has three objectives:\n\nOlive oil mills very rarely use a modern crushing method with a traditional press.\n\nAfter grinding, the olive paste is spread on fiber disks, which are stacked on top of each other, then placed into the press. Traditionally the disks were made of hemp or coconut fiber, but in modern times they are made of synthetic fibers which are easier to clean and maintain.\n\nThese disks are then put on a hydraulic piston, forming a pile. Pressure is applied on the disks, thus compacting the solid phase of the olive paste and percolating the liquid phases (oil and vegetation water). The applied hydraulic pressure can go to 400 atm. To facilitate separation of the liquid phases, water is run down the sides of the disks to increase the speed of percolation. The liquids are then separated either by a standard process of decantation or by means of a faster vertical centrifuge.\n\nThe traditional method is a valid form of producing high-quality olive oil, if after each extraction the disks are properly cleaned from the remains of paste; if not the leftover paste will begin to ferment, thereby producing inconsistencies of flavors (called defects) that will contaminate the subsequently produced olive oil. A similar problem can affect the grindstones that, in order to assure perfect quality, also require cleaning after each usage.\n\nProper cleaning produces higher-quality oil. Grindstones, while ancient in design, are a suitable way to grind olives, because this method breaks up the drupe's pulp while only slightly touching the nut and the skin. This reduces the release of the oil oxidation enzymes present in these organs. In addition, in this extraction method, the introduction of water is minimal when compared to the modern one, thus reducing the washing-off of the polyphenols. The exhausted paste, called pomace, has a low content of water, making it an easier residue to manage.\n\nAdvantages\n\nDisadvantages\n\nThe modern method of olive oil extraction uses an industrial decanter to separate all the phases by centrifugation. In this method the olives are crushed to a fine paste. This can be done by a hammer crusher, disc crusher, depitting machine or knife crusher. This paste is then malaxed for 30 to 60 minutes in order to allow the small olive droplets to agglomerate. The aromas are created in these two steps through the action of fruit enzymes.\n\nAfterwards the paste is pumped into an industrial decanter where the phases will be separated. Water is added to facilitate the extraction process with the paste.\n\nThe decanter is a large capacity horizontal centrifuge rotating approximately 3,000 rpm, the high centrifugal force created allows the phases to be readily separated according to their different densities (solids > vegetation water > oil). Inside the decanter's rotating conical drum there is a coil that rotates more slowly, pushing the solid materials out of the system.\n\nThe separated oil and vegetation water are then rerun through a vertical centrifuge, working around 6,000 rpm that will separate the small quantity of vegetation water still contained in oil and vice versa.\n\nWith the three phases oil decanter, a portion of the oil polyphenols is washed out due to the higher quantity of added water (when compared to the traditional method), producing a larger quantity of vegetation water that needs to be processed.\n\nThe two phases oil decanter was created as an attempt to solve these problems. Sacrificing part of its extraction capability, it uses less added water thus reducing the phenol washing. The olive paste is separated into two phases: oil and wet pomace. This type of decanter, instead of having three exits (oil, water, and solids), has only two. The water is expelled by the decanter coil together with the pomace, resulting in a wetter pomace that is much harder to process industrially. Many pomace oil extraction facilities refuse to work with these materials because the energy costs of drying the pomace for the hexane oil extraction often make the extraction process sub-economical. In practice, then, the two phases decanter solves the phenol washing problem but increases the residue management problem. This residue management problem has been reduced by the collection of this wetter pomace and being transported to specialized facilities called extractors which heat the pomace between 45ºc and 50ºc and can extract up to a further 2 litres per 100 kilos of pomace using adapted two-phase decanters.\n\nThe two-and-a-half-phase oil decanter is a compromise between the two previous types of decanters. It separates the olive paste into the standard three phases, but has a smaller need for added water and also a smaller vegetation water output. Therefore, the water content of the obtained pomace comes very close to that of the standard three-phase decanter, and the vegetation water output is relatively small, minimizing the residue management issues.\n\nDepending on the olives and processing, the Decanter or Tricanter can extract between 85 and 90% of the olive oil in the 1st extraction. The yield from olive oil manufacture can be increased even further with a 2nd extraction. The olive oil yield increases to as much as 96% by combining the 1st and 2nd extractions. \n\nAdvantages\n\nDisadvantages\n\nThe Sinolea method to extract oil from the olives was introduced in 1972; in this process, rows of metal discs or plates are dipped into the paste; the oil preferentially wets and sticks to the metal and is removed with scrapers in a continuous process. It is based on the different surface tension of the vegetation water and the oil, these different physical behaviors allow the olive oil to adhere to a steel plaque while the other two phases remain behind.\n\nSinolea works by continuously introducing several hundreds of steel plaques into the paste thus extracting the olive oil. This process is not completely efficient leaving a large quantity of oil still in the paste, so the remaining paste has to be processed by the standard modern method (industrial decanter).\n\nAdvantages\n\nDisadvantages\n\nMany oils are marketed as first cold pressed or cold extraction. \"Cold\" means no heat is added during extraction. \"Pressed\" means that the olives are crushed in a mill to extract the oil. \n\nIn the EU, these designations are regulated by Article 5 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1019/2002 of 13 June 2002 on marketing standards for olive oil. This article states that in order to use these designations the olive oil bottler must prove that the temperature of malaxation and extraction was under 27 °C (80 °F).\n\nFor olive oil bottled outside EU countries, this regulation does not apply, and thus the consumer has no assurance that these statements are true.\n\nThe temperature of malaxation and extraction is crucial due to its effect on olive oil quality. When high temperatures are applied, the more volatile aromas are lost and the rate of oil oxidation is increased, producing therefore lower quality oils. In addition, the chemical content of the polyphenols, antioxidants, and vitamins present in the oil is reduced by higher temperatures. The temperature is adjusted basically by controlling the temperature of the water added during these two steps. High temperatures are used to increase the yield of olive oil obtained from the paste.\n\nSome producers, in order to maximise product quality, choose to combine the traditional grinding method, the stone mill, with a modern decanter. This technique produces more selective grinding of the olives, reduces the malaxation time olive paste, and avoids the complicated cleaning of the olive press fibre disks. Because the use of the stone mill requires a loading and unloading phase, this extraction method is discontinuous, i.e., there are times when all the machinery is stopped, therefore it is generally not used on a large commercial scale, being applied only by small scale olive mills producing high quality olive oil.\n\nHigh quality olive oil can be obtained by all the methods if proper measures are taken. Olive oil quality is equally dependent on the quality of the olives themselves and on the time they have to wait from harvesting to extraction, in addition to the extraction method itself.\n\nThe two main agents that cause the degradation of olive oil are oxygen and light. Once an olive is harvested, it should be pressed within 24 hours. Oxidation begins immediately upon harvesting. In the period between harvest and grinding, the fruits' enzymes are very active and increasingly degrade the endogenous oil, and therefore oil obtained after a longer wait is of lower quality, presenting higher acidity (free fatty acids percentage).\n\nIn addition, if additional oxygen is allowed to interact with the olive paste during the extraction process, the acidity level will increase further. Sealed extraction methods are best to prevent the continued introduction of oxygen, as well as light to the oil.\n\nAfter extraction is complete, in most cases unfiltered olive oil appears somewhat cloudy, mainly due to the presence of minute amounts of water and suspended solids of olive pulp and seed. This type of oil is therefore sometimes called \"cloudy\" or \"veiled olive oil\".\n\nIt is common practice that unfiltered olive oils are then \"racked\" for a time, i.e. stored in cool stainless steel silos with a conical bottom that are pumped free of oxygen to enable the precipitation and separation of the two phases and facilitate later filtration; it will also contribute in the integrity and stability of the oil.\n\nThe future of olive extraction points to reducing the negative aspects of the present methods, decreasing the degradation oil produced by the extraction process in itself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000361", "title": "Omid Kordestani", "text": "Omid Kordestani\n\nOmid R. Kordestani (, born 1963) is an Iranian-Kurdish American businessman who has been the Executive Chairman at Twitter since October 2015. He was previously a Senior Vice President, the Chief Business Officer, and a special advisor to the CEO and founders at Google during July 2014 to October 2015 and was a director of Vodafone from March 2013 to October 2014. Kordestani had also previously been at Google from May 1999 to April 2009, reaching the position of Senior Vice President for Worldwide Sales and Field Operations.\n\nOmid Kordestani was born in Tehran, Iran to a Kurdish family and grew up there attending Andisheh Don Bosco School, an Italian Catholic school in Tehran that emphasised education and language skills. He moved to San Jose, California after the death of his father in 1976.\n\nKordestani graduated from Buchser High school in 1980. He later received an electrical engineering degree from San Jose State University and went to work for Hewlett Packard as an engineer. Several years later in order to pursue a business degree, he entered Stanford Business School and earned his MBA in 1991.\n\nKordestani has more than a dozen years of high-technology consumer and enterprise experience, including key positions at Internet pioneer Netscape Communications. He was also vice president of Business Development and Sales and grew Netscape's website revenue from an annual run-rate of $88 million to more than $200 million in 18 months. He started his career at Netscape as director of OEM Sales, and during his four-year career at that company he was responsible for establishing major customer relationships with Citibank, AOL, Amazon, Intuit, Travelocity, Intel, @Home, eBay, and Excite. Prior to Netscape, Kordestani held positions in marketing, product management, and business development at The 3DO Company, Go Corporation, and Hewlett-Packard.\nHe joined Google in May 1999, leading the development and implementation of the company's initial business model and was Google's senior vice president of worldwide sales and field operations until April 16, 2009. Kordestani played a part in Google's worldwide revenue generation efforts as well as the day-to-day operations of the company’s sales organization.\n\nOn July 18, 2014, Kordestani came back to Google to fill the vacancy of Chief Business Officer at Google after Nikesh Arora, who was recruited to Google by Kordestani himself, left for SoftBank. Initially interim, his post became permanent in October.\n\nOn October 14, 2015, Kordestani left Google and became Executive Chairman at Twitter.\n\nKordestani is one of the founders of PARSA Community Foundation, a Persian heritage, entrepreneurship and philanthropic society.\n\nKordestani is considered one of the wealthiest residents in Northern California. His net worth is estimated to be $1.9 billion. Kordestani has a son, Milan, who is a competitive equestrian.\n\nIn the May 8, 2006 issue of \"Time Magazine\", Kordestani was named one of Time's \"100 People who shape our world\".\n\nKordestani was selected as the Persian Person of the Year in 2007 by Persian Awards despite not being ethnicically Persian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4443522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4443522", "title": "Opposition to trade unions", "text": "Opposition to trade unions\n\nOpposition to trade unions comes from a variety of groups in society and there are many different types of argument on which this opposition is based.\n\nThe economist Milton Friedman, advocate of laissez-faire capitalism, believed that unionization frequently produces higher wages at the expense of fewer jobs, and that, if some industries are unionized while others are not, wages will decline in non-unionized industries.\n\nBy raising the price of labor, the wage rate, above the equilibrium price, unemployment rises. This is because it is no longer worthwhile for businesses to employ those laborers whose work is worth less than the minimum wage rate set by the unions.\n\nTrade unions often benefit \"insider\" workers, those having a secure job and high productivity, at the cost of \"outsider\" workers, consumers of the goods or services produced, and the shareholders of the unionized business. The ones who are likely to lose the most from a trade union are those who are unemployed or at the risk of unemployment or who are not able to get the job that they want in a particular field.\n\nAdvocates of unions claim that the higher wages that unions demand can be paid for through company profits. However, as Milton Friedman pointed out, profits are only very rarely high enough. 80% of national income is wages, and only about 6% is profits after tax, providing very little room for higher wages, even if profits could be totally used up. Moreover, profits are invested leading to an increase in capital: which raises the value of labor, increasing wages. If profits were totally removed, this source of wage increase would be removed.\n\nAccording to The New York Times, wages in 2012 fell to a record low of 43.5 percent of GDP.\n\nFriedrich Hayek argued that the effect of union activities to influence pricing is potentially very harmful, making the market system ineffective.\n\nBy causing wage increases above the market rate, unions increase the cost to businesses, causing them to raise their prices, leading to a general increase in the price level. Austrian economists such as Robert P. Murphy, however, dispute this, arguing that the increase in the cost of labor simply means that less of other goods can be bought. He writes:\n\nIf unions succeed in wage hikes, and employers raise the prices they charge consumers to maintain their own profit margins, and the supply of money remains the same, then something else has to \"give.\" Either the prices of goods and services in nonunion sectors have to fall and offset the union sector hikes, or people's cash balances need to fall, in terms of their purchasing power.\n\nSome trade unions, such as the Teamsters, have been criticized for involvement with organized crime.\n\nThe argument that unionized workers raise their own wages above their natural rate at the expense of their businesses or other workers assumes that unions never raise productivity to compensate for higher wages. Unions are capable of raising productivity by reducing turnover, by increasing coordination between workers and management, and by increasing workers' motivation. Many unions raise the productivity of their workers, and some even raise it enough to make up for wage increases.\n\nAnother argument raised by union supporters is that unionized workers will spend their higher wages, driving economic growth and creating new jobs. Union opponents respond that this is an example of the broken window fallacy; union supporters assume that money is more valuable in the hands of unionized workers than in the hands of whoever else would obtain it in the union's absence. There is some evidence that this is not a fallacy, as greater wealth equality seems to be correlated with greater economic growth. Union supporters counter that unions, if organized without violence or government help, are part of the free market; if unions can win higher wages for their workers without coercion, those wages are legitimate.\n\nTrade unions take strike actions that result in the disruption of public services – as demonstrated in the British Winter of Discontent. However, where applicable, this may be logically inferred to be the very purpose of strike action \"per se\".\n\nIn some cases, unions' strike have led to violent clashes with police and with strikebreakers. See the article on the UK miners' strike of the 1980s.\n\nA consequence of unions' zeal to guard their special interests is that some unions have actively lobbied for racist and anti-immigration policies. An example is the creation of the notorious Asiatic Exclusion League, which was composed mainly of the various labor unions. The \"Pictorial History of American Labor\" observes,\n\nThe early A.F. of L. did not draw the color line, but expressed an \"ideal of solidarity irrespective of race.\" Before long, however, the feeling changed. Whether a tendency to exclude black workers from craft unions was based more on fear of competition or racial prejudice carried over from slave days, it is difficult to decide. But the developing exclusion of the Negro worker from many neighbor unions brought with it serious problems—not just for the black worker seeking job security, but for the white worker seeking the same end...<br>\nThe record shows that black workers...have been used to break strikes. This availability has usually ended when the black worker has been shown that the union is open to black as well as white.\n\nHowever, in a study called \"The Black Worker\", Spero and Harris observe that more strikes [in American labor history] have been broken by white workers than by black workers. Most blacks were barred from membership in the AFL not because of their skin color, but because they never had a chance to learn a skill, and \"most A.F. of L. unions did not admit unskilled mass-production workers.\" While the AFL-CIO is the modern version of the AFL, it is much more open to membership by women, immigrants, and different nationalities. Other unions, such as the Industrial Workers of the World and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, were created without regard to race from the very start.\n\nSpecific countries, especially undemocratic countries, while still having unions in \"name\", do not allow for independent trade unions, just as they rarely allow for independent businesses. These state-run trade unions do not function in the same way as independent trade unions and generally do not hold any kind of collective bargaining power, acting to ensure the smooth running of Government industry.\n\nAttempts to reduce the effects of trade unions may include union busting activities by private companies or state action including governments of authoritarian regimes such as in Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany and Burma's military dictator, Ne Win. Many democratic governments have also attempted to limit the effects of unions, although success has been mixed.\n\nIt has been argued, particularly by market anarchists, that government intervention in the economy has been decidedly anti-union, even in economies like the United States or the European Union. Kevin Carson maintains that the most effective union tactics are either criminalized or displaced by state policy in most countries. Trade unions established themselves through sitdown strikes, sympathy strikes, secondary boycotts, and hot cargo agreements; these tactics are all illegal in most industrialized countries. Similarly, the original unions doubled as social welfare organization, using union funds to provide healthcare and pensions to workers and welfare to the unemployed. By adopting various welfare-state measures, governments made the populace less dependent on unions.\n\nThe political left is often associated with support for trade unionism. However, some groups and individuals have taken a less positive view. In the nineteenth century, a belief in the iron law of wages led some socialists to reject trade unionism and strike action as ineffective. In this view, any increase in wages would lead manufacturers to raise \"prices\" leaving workers no better off in real terms. Karl Marx wrote a pamphlet, \"Wages, Price and Profit\", to counter this idea, which had been put forward in the International Workingmen's Association by a follower of Robert Owen.\n\nSome early Social Democrats were also skeptical of trade unionism. Usual criticisms were that unions split workers into sections rather than organising them as a class; that they were dominated by relatively privileged skilled workers who were mainly concerned to defend their sectional interests; and that industrial action and organisation were incapable of bringing about fundamental social change. H. M. Hyndman of the Social Democratic Federation summed up some of these views when he wrote in \"The Historical Basis of Socialism in England\" (1883):\nHyndman went on to urge workers to devote \"the Trade Union funds wasted on strikes or petty funds\" instead to the building up of a strong Socialist Party on the German model. Other social democrats however were more convinced than Hyndman of the utility of Trade Union action.\n\nTrade unionism is criticised by those of council communist and left communist tendencies. Here, trade unionism is seen as being more useful to capitalists than to workers, and as a kind of \"safety-valve\" that helps to keep working-class discontent within reformist channels and prevent it from evolving into revolutionary action. They consider a global state composed of workers' councils to be the ultimate union to which all workers in the world belong; unions that organize based on trade further divide the working class and act as a mechanism to allow the working class to vent concerns without actually uniting and becoming revolutionary. In contrast to other left critiques of trade unionism, these tendencies do not accept that the problems they identify could be remedied by changing the structure, leadership or objectives of trade unions. They argue that trade unionism is inherently reformist because it is sectarian and is not founded in the workplace itself and that revolutionary action is possible only if workers act outside trade unionism through workers' councils or other channels.\n\nThere is also a philosophical difference between the craft unionism of many AFL-type unions, and the industrial unionism of organizations such as the Industrial Workers of the World. Industrial unionists decry a practice that they call \"union scabbing,\" in which craft unionists are required by the no-strike clause in their contracts to cross the picket lines of other unions.\n\nThere is also the left critique of the tendencies of some labor unions to become bureaucratic and for the union leaders and staff to become detached from the needs and interests of the rank and file union members, in contrast to the practices of union democracy. The Labor Notes, in the United States, is an example of an organization that attempts to fight this bureaucratic tendency.\n\nViolence:\n\n\nThe Free Market 24, no. 10 (October 2004) Mises Institute\n"}
{"id": "33153742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33153742", "title": "Order of Aeronautical Merit (Brazil)", "text": "Order of Aeronautical Merit (Brazil)\n\nThe Order of Aeronautical Merit () is an award of the Brazilian Air Force, established on 1 November 1943 by President Getúlio Vargas. The order is presented in five grades and recognizes distinguished service and exceptional contributions to the Brazilian Air Force.\n\nThe order is awarded in the following grades:\n\n"}
{"id": "37696365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37696365", "title": "Petar Matić", "text": "Petar Matić\n\nPetar Matić (; born on 3 September 1966) is a Serbian businessman and the owner of MPC Holding and MPC Properties. He is believed to be one of the richest people in Serbia.\n\nMatić was born in Maribor, Slovenia and studied at the Faculty of Hotel Management in Opatija, Croatia. Before moving to Belgrade, Serbia, he had already developed a business on the Croatian coast mainly involved in retail footwear and apparel.\n\nAfter moving to Belgrade in 1989 Matić founded the company MPC (incorporating his initials into the name), which went on to be very successful in the following years. In 1991 MPC was transformed into the MPC Group with significant growth and expanded activities. In 2003 it had two main divisions: Real Estate and Trade.\n\nSoon afterwards, Matić went on to establish MPC Holding and MPC Properties, a leading companies in trade and real estate development in the region. In 2007 MPC Properties entered into the strategic partnership with Merrill Lynch / Bank of America. This was the first investment made by Merill Lynch in the territory of former Yugoslavia.\n\nMatić's companies are now market leaders in that part of Europe. They currently employ over 1,000 people and are some of the most significant investors in Serbia. The companies have been awarded retail, commercial, residential and logistics projects that are of immense importance in the region for example the Business Center Ušće, the Usce Shopping Center (the first regional shopping mall), IMMO outlet Centers, Business Center “Tri Lista Duvana” and residential/condominium “OASIS”. \n\nMatić chooses to stay out of the public eye, as he does not give interviews to the press, and his photographs cannot be found in local newspapers.\n\nMatić is also a member of ICSC - International Council of Shopping Centres.\n"}
{"id": "239887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239887", "title": "Pricing", "text": "Pricing\n\nPricing is the process whereby a business sets the price at which it will sell its products and services, and may be part of the business's marketing plan. In setting prices, the business will take into account the price at which it could acquire the goods, the manufacturing cost, the market place, competition, market condition, brand, and quality of product.\n\nPricing is a fundamental aspect of financial modeling and is one of the four Ps of the marketing mix, the other three aspects being product, promotion, and place. Price is the only revenue generating element amongst the four Ps, the rest being cost centers. However, the other Ps of marketing will contribute to decreasing price elasticity and so enable price increases to drive greater revenue and profits.\n\nPricing can be a manual or automatic process of applying prices to purchase and sales orders, based on factors such as: a fixed amount, quantity break, promotion or sales campaign, specific vendor quote, price prevailing on entry, shipment or invoice date, combination of multiple orders or lines, and many others. Automated pricing systems require more setup and maintenance but may prevent pricing errors. The needs of the consumer can be converted into demand only if the consumer has the willingness and capacity to buy the product. Thus, pricing is the most important concept in the field of marketing, it is used as a tactical decision in response to comparing market situations.\n\nThe objectives of pricing should consider:\n\nPrice is influenced by the type of distribution channel used, the type of promotions used, and the quality of the product. Where manufacturing is expensive, distribution is exclusive, and the product is supported by extensive advertising and promotional campaigns, then prices are likely to be higher. Price can act as a substitute for product quality, effective promotions, or an energetic selling effort by distributors in certain markets.\n\nFrom the marketer's point of view, an efficient price is a price that is very close to the maximum that customers are prepared to pay. In economic terms, it is a price that shifts most of the consumer economic surplus to the producer. A good pricing strategy would be the one which could balance between the price floor (the price below which the organization ends up in losses) and the price ceiling (the price by which the organization experiences a no-demand situation).\n\nMarketers develop an overall pricing strategy that is consistent with the organisation's mission and values. This pricing strategy typically becomes part of the company's overall long-term strategic plan. The strategy is designed to provide broad guidance for price-setters and ensures that the pricing strategy is consistent with other elements of the marketing plan. While the actual price of goods or services may vary in response to different conditions, the broad approach to pricing (i.e., the pricing strategy) remains a constant for the planning outlook period which is typically 3–5 years, but in some industries may be a longer period of 7–10 years. The pricing strategy established the overall, long-term goals of the pricing function, without specifying an actual price-point. \n\nBroadly, there are six approaches to pricing strategy mentioned in the marketing literature:\n\nWhen decision-makers have determined the broad approach to pricing (i.e., the pricing strategy), they turn their attention to pricing tactics. Tactical pricing decisions are shorter term prices, designed to accomplish specific short-term goals. The tactical approach to pricing may vary from time to time, depending on a range of internal considerations (e.g. such as the need to clear surplus inventory) or external factors (e.g. a response to competitive pricing tactics). Accordingly, a number of different pricing tactics may be employed in the course of a single planning period or across a single year. Typically line managers are given the latitude necessary to vary individual prices providing that they operate within the broad strategic approach. For example, some premium brands never offer discounts because the use of low prices may tarnish the brand image. Instead of discounting, premium brands are more likely to offer customer value through price-bundling or give-aways.\n\nWhen setting individual prices, decision-makers require a solid understanding of pricing economics, notably break-even analysis, as well as an appreciation of the psychological aspects of consumer decision-making including reservation prices, ceiling prices and floor prices. The marketing literature identifies literally hundreds of pricing tactics. It is difficult to do justice to the variety of tactics in widespread use. Rao and Kartono carried out a cross-cultural study to identify the pricing strategies and tactics that are most widely used. The following listing is largely based on their work.\n\nA traditional tactic used in outsourcing that uses a fixed fee for a fixed volume of services, with variations on fees for volumes above or below target thresholds. Charges for additional resources (“ARC’s”) above the threshold are priced at rates to reflect the marginal cost of the additional production plus a reasonable profit. Credits (“RRC’s”) granted for reduction in resources consumed or provided offer the enterprise customer some comfort, but the savings on credits tend not to be equivalent to the increased costs when paying for incremental resources in excess of the threshold.\n\nComplementary pricing is a collective term used to describe `captive-market' pricing tactics. It refers to a method in which one of two or more complementary products (a deskjet printer, for example) is priced to maximise sales volume, while the complementary product (printer ink cartridges) are priced at a much higher level in order to cover any shortfall sustained by the first product.\n\nContingency pricing describes the process where a fee is only charged contingent on certain results. Contingency pricing is widely used in professional services such as legal services and consultancy services. In the United Kingdom, a contingency fee is known as a conditional fee.\n\nDifferential pricing, also known as \"flexible pricing\", \"multiple pricing\" or \"price discrimination\" , occurs where different prices are charged to different customers or market-segments, and may be dependent on the service provider's assessment of the customer's willingness or ability to pay. There are various forms of price difference including: the type of customer, the geographic area served, the quantity ordered, delivery time, payment terms, etc.\n\nDiscrete Pricing occurs when prices are set at a level that the price comes within the competence of the decision making unit (DMU). This method of pricing is often used in B2B contexts where the purchasing officer may be authorised to make purchases up to a predetermined level, beyond which decisions must go to a committee for authorisation.\n\nDiscount pricing is where the marketer or retailer offers a reduced price. Discounts in a variety of forms - e.g. quantity rebates, loyalty rebates, seasonal discounts, periodic or random discounts etc.\n\nDiversionary Pricing is a variation of loss leadering used extensively in services; a low price is charged on a basic service with the intention of recouping on the extras; can also refer to low prices on some parts of the service to develop an image of low price.\n\nEveryday low prices refers to the practice of maintaining a regular low price-low price - in which consumers are not forced to wait for discounting or specials. This method is used by supermarkets.\n\nExit Fees refer to a fee charged for customers who depart from the service process prior to natural completion. The objective of exit fees is to deter premature exit. Exit fees are often found in financial services, telecommunications services and aged care facilities. Regulatory authorities, around the globe, have often expressed their discontent with the practice of exit fees as it has the potential to be anti-competitive and restricts consumers' abilities to switch freely, but the practice has not been proscribed.\n\nExperience curve pricing occurs when a manufacturer prices a product or service at a low rate in order to obtain volume and with the expectation that the cost of production will decrease with the acquisition of manufacturing experience. This approach which is often used in the pricing of high technology products and services, is based on the insight that manufacturers learn to trim production costs over time in a phenomenon known as experience effects.\n\nGeographic pricing occurs when different prices are charged in different geographic markets for an identical product. For example, publishers often make text-books available at lower prices in Asian countries because average wages tend to be lower with implications for the customer's ability to pay. In other cases, geographic variations in prices may reflect the different costs of distribution and servicing certain markets. \n\nGuaranteed pricing is a variant of contingency pricing. It refers to the practice of including an undertaking or promise that certain results or outcomes will be achieved. For instance, some business consultants undertake to improve productivity or profitability by 10%. In the event that the result is not achieved, the client does not pay for the service.\n\nHigh-low pricing refers to the practice of offering goods at a high price for a period of time, followed by offering the same goods at a low price for a predetermined time. This practice is widely used by chain stores selling homewares. The main disadvantage of the high-low tactic is that consumers tend to become aware of the price cycles and time their purchases to coincide with a low-price cycle.\n\nHoneymoon Pricing refers to the practice of using a low introductory price with subsequent price increases once relationship is established. The objective of honeymoon pricing is to \"lock\" customers into a long-term association with the vendor. This approach is widely used in situations where customer switching costs are relatively high such as in home loans and financial investsments. It is also common in categories where a subscription model is used, especially if this is coupled with automatic regular payments, such as in newspaper and magazine subscriptions, cable TV, broadband and cell phone subscriptions and in utilities and insurance.\n\nA loss leader is a product that has a price set below the operating margin. Loss leadering is widely used in supermarkets and budget-priced retail outlets where the store as a means of generating store traffic. The low price is widely promoted and the store is prepared to take a small loss on an individual item, with an expectation that it will recoup that loss when customers purchase other higher priced-higher margin items. In service industries, loss leadering may refer to the practice of charging a reduced price on the first order as an inducement and with anticipation of charging higher prices on subsequent orders. Loss leadering is often found in retail, where the loss leader is used to drive store traffic and generate sales of complementary items. \n\nOffset pricing (also known as \"diversionary pricing\") is the service industry's equivalent of loss leadering. A service may price one component of the offer at a very low price with an expectation that it can recoup any losses by cross-selling additional services. For example, a carpet steam cleaning service may charge a very low basic price for the first three rooms, but charges higher prices for additional rooms, furniture and curtain cleaning. The operator may also try to cross-sell the client on additional services such as spot-cleaning products, or stain-resistant treatments for fabrics and carpets.\n\nParity pricing refers to the process of pricing a product at or near a rival's price in order to remain competitive.\n\nPrice bundling (also known as product bundling) occurs where two or more products or services are priced as a package with a single price. There are several types of bundles: \"pure bundles\" where the goods can only be purchased as package or \"mixed bundles\" where the goods can be purchased individually or as a package. The prices of the bundle is typically less than when the two items are purchased separately.\n\nPeak and off-peak pricing is a form of price discrimination where the price variation is due to some type of seasonal factor. The objective of peak and off peak pricing is to use prices to even out peaks and troughs in demand. Peak and off-peak pricing is widely used in tourism, travel and also in utilities such as electricity providers. Peak pricing has caught the public's imagination since the ride-sharing service provider, Uber, commenced using \"surge pricing\" and has sought to patent the technologies that support this approach.\n\nPrice discrimination is also known as variable pricing or \"differential pricing\".\n\n\"Price lining\" is the use of a limited number of prices for all product offered by a business. Price lining is a tradition started in the old five and dime stores in which everything cost either 5 or 10 cents. In price lining, the price remains constant but quality or extent of product or service adjusted to reflect changes in cost. The underlying rationale of this tactic is that these amounts are seen as suitable price points for a whole range of products by prospective customers. It has the advantage of ease of administering, but the disadvantage of inflexibility, particularly in times of inflation or unstable prices. Price lining continues to be widely used in department stores where customers often note racks of garments or accessories priced at predetermined price points e.g. separate racks of men's ties, where each rack is priced at $10, $20 and $40.\n\nPenetration pricing is an approach that can be considered at the time of market entry. In this approach, the price of a product is initially set low in an effort to penetrate the market quickly. Low prices and low margins also act as a deterrent, preventing potential rivals from entering the market since they would have to undercut the low margins to gain a foothold.\n\nPrestige pricing is also known as \"premium pricing\" and occasionally \"luxury pricing\" or \"high price maintenance\" refers to the deliberate pursuit of a high price posture to create an image of quality.\n\nPrice signalling is where the price is used as an indicator of some other attribute. For example, some travel resorts promote that when two adults make a booking, the kids stay for free. This type of pricing is designed to signal that the resort is a family friendly operation. \n\nPrice skimming, also known as \"skim-the-cream pricing\" is a tactic that might be considered at market entry. The objective is to charge relatively high prices in order to recoup the cost of product development early in the life-cycle and before competitors enter the market.\n\nPromotional pricing is a temporary measure that involves setting prices at levels lower than normally charged for a good or service. Promotional pricing is sometimes a reaction to unforeseen circumstances, as when a downturn in demand leaves a company with excess stocks; or when competitive activity is making inroads into market share or profits.\n\nTwo-part pricing is a variant of captive-market pricing used in service industries. Two part pricing breaks the actual price into two parts; a fixed service fee plus a variable consumption rate. Two- part pricing tactics are widely used by utility companies such as electricity, gas and water and services where there is a quasi- membership type relationship, credit cards where an annual fee is charged and theme parks where an entrance fee is charged for admission while the customer pays for rides and extras. One part of the price represents a membership fee or joining fee, while the second part represents the usage component.\n\nPsychological pricing is a range of tactics designed to have a positive psychological impact. Price tags using the terminal digit \"9\", ($9.99, $19.99 or $199.99) can be used to signal price points and bring an item in at just under the consumer's reservation price. Psychological pricing is widely used in a variety of retail settings.\n\n\"Premium pricing\" (also called prestige pricing) is the strategy of consistently pricing at, or near, the high end of the possible price range to help attract status-conscious consumers. The high pricing of a premium product is used to enhance and reinforce a product's luxury image. Examples of companies which partake in premium pricing in the marketplace include Rolex and Bentley. As well as brand, product attributes such as eco-labelling and provenance (e.g. 'certified organic' and 'product of Australia') may add value for consumers and attract premium pricing. A component of such premiums may reflect the increased cost of production. People will buy a premium priced product because:\nThe old association of luxury only being for the kings and queens of the world is almost non-existent in today’s world. People have generally become wealthier, therefore the mass marketing phenomenon of luxury has simply become a part of everyday life, and no longer reserved for the elite. Since consumers have a larger source of disposable income, they now have the power to purchase products that meet their aspirational needs. This phenomenon enables premium pricing opportunities for marketers in luxury markets. Luxurification in society can be seen when middle class members of society, are willing to pay premium prices for a service or product of the highest quality when compared with similar goods. Examples of this can be seen with items such as clothing and electronics. Charging a premium price for a product also makes it more inaccessible and helps it gain an exclusive appeal. Luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton and Gucci are more than just clothing and become more of a status symbol. (Yeoman, 2011).\n\nPrestige goods are usually sold by companies that have a monopoly on the market and hold competitive advantage. Due to a firm having great market power they are able to charge at a premium for goods, and are able to spend a larger sum on promotion and advertising. According to Han, Nunes and Dreze (2015) figure on “signal preference and taxonomy based on wealth and need for status” two social groups known as “Parvenus” and “Poseurs” are individuals generally more self-conscious, and base purchases on a need to reach a higher status or gain a social prestige value. Further market research shows the role of possessions in consumer’s lives and how people make assumptions about others solely based on their possessions. People associate high priced items with success. (Han et al., 2010). Marketers understand this concept, and price items at a premium to create the illusion of exclusivity and high quality. Consumers are likely to purchase a product at a higher price than a similar product as they crave the status, and feeling of superiority as being part of a minority that can in fact afford the said product. (Han et al., 2010).\n\nA price premium can also be charged to consumers when purchasing eco-labelled products. Market based incentives are given in order to encourage people to practice their business in an eco-friendly way in regard to the environment. Associations such as the MSC’s fishery certification programme and seafood ecolabel reward those who practice sustainable fishing. Pressure from environmental groups have caused the implementation of Associations such as these, rather than consumers demanding it. The value consumer’s gain from purchasing environmentally conscious products may create a premium price over non eco-labelled products. This means that producers have some sort of incentive for suppling goods worthy of eco-labelling standard. Usually more costs are incurred when practicing sustainable business, and charging at a premium is a way businesses can recover extra costs.\n\n\"Demand-based pricing\", also known as dynamic pricing, is a pricing method that uses consumer demand - based on perceived value - as the central element. These include price skimming, price discrimination and yield management, price points, psychological pricing, bundle pricing, penetration pricing, price lining, value-based pricing, geo and premium pricing.\n\nPricing factors are manufacturing cost, market place, competition, market condition, quality of product.\n\nPrice modeling using econometric techniques can help measure price elasticity, and computer based modeling tools will often facilitate simulations of different prices and the outcome on sales and profit. More sophisticated tools help determine price at the SKU level across a portfolio of products. Retailers will optimize the price of their private label SKUs with those of National Brands.\n\nUber's pricing policy is an example of demand-based dynamic pricing. It uses an automated algorithm to increase prices to \"surge price\" levels, responding rapidly to changes of supply and demand in the market. By responding in realtime, an equilibrium between demand and supply of drivers can be approached. Customers receive notice when making an Uber reservation that prices have increased. The company applied for a U.S. patent on surge pricing in 2013, though airlines are known to have been using similar techniques in seat pricing for years.\n\nThe practice has often caused passengers to become upset and invited criticism when it happens as a result of holidays, inclement weather, natural disasters or other factors. During New Year's Eve 2011, Uber prices were as high as seven times normal rates, causing outrage. During the 2014 Sydney hostage crisis, Uber implemented surge pricing, resulting in fares of up to four times normal charges; while it defended the surge pricing at first, it later apologized and refunded the surcharges. Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has responded to criticism by saying: \"...because this is so new, it's going to take some time for folks to accept it. There's 70 years of conditioning around the fixed price of taxis.\"\n\n\"Multidimensional pricing\" is the pricing of a product or service using multiple numbers. In this practice, price no longer consists of a single monetary amount (e.g., sticker price of a car), but rather consists of various dimensions (e.g., monthly payments, number of payments, and a downpayment). Research has shown that this practice can significantly influence consumers' ability to understand and process price information.\n\nMicromarketing is the practice of tailoring products, brands (microbrands), and promotions to meet the needs and wants of microsegments within a market. It is a type of market customization that deals with pricing of customer/product combinations at the store or individual level.\n\nThe \"price/quality relationship\" comprises consumers' perceptions of value. High prices are often taken as a sign of quality, especially when the product or service lacks search qualities that can be inspected prior to purchase. Understanding consumers’ perceptions of the price/quality relationship is most important in the case of complex products that are hard to test, and experiential products that cannot be tested until used (such as most services). The greater the uncertainty surrounding a product, the more consumers depend on the price/quality signal and the greater premium they may be prepared to pay.\n\nConsumers can have different perceptions on premium pricing, and this factor makes it important for the marketer to understand consumer behaviour. According to Vigneron and Johnson’s figure on “Prestige-Seeking Consumer Behaviours”, Consumers can be categorised into four groups. These groups being; Hedonist & Perfectionist, snob, bandwagon and veblenian. These categories rank from level of self-consciousness, to importance of price as an indicator of prestige. The Veblen Effect explains how this group of consumers makes purchase decisions based on conspicuous value, as they tend to purchase publicly consumed luxury products. This shows they are likely to make the purchase to show power, status and wealth. Consumers that fall under the “Snob Effect” can be described as individuals that search for perceived unique value, and will purchase exclusive products in order to be the first or very few who has it. They will also avoid purchasing products consumed by a general mass of people, as it is perceived that items in limited supply hold a higher value than items that do not. (Vigneron & Johnson, 1999). The bandwagon effect explains that consumers that fit into this category make purchasing decisions to fit into a social group, and gain a perceived social value out of purchasing popular products within said social group at premium prices. Research shows that people will often conform to what the majority of the group they are a member of thinks when it comes to the attitude of a product. Paying a premium price for a product can act as a way of gaining acceptance, due to the pressure placed on them by their peers. The Hedonic effect can be described as a certain group of people whose purchasing decisions are not affected by the status and exclusivity gained by purchasing a product at a premium, nor susceptible to the fear of being left out and peer pressure. Consumers who fit into this category base their purchasing decisions on a perceived emotional value, and gain intangible benefits such as sensory pleasure, aesthetic beauty and excitement. Consumers of this type have a higher interest on their own wellbeing. (Vigneron & Johnson, 1999). The last category on Vigneron and Johnson’s figure of “Prestige-Seeking Consumer Behaviours” is the perfectionism effect. Prestige brands are expected to show high quality, and it’s this reassurance of the highest quality that can actually enhance the value of the product. According to this effect, those that fit into this group value the prestige’s brands to have a superior quality and higher performance than other similar brands. Research has indicated that consumer’s perceive quality of a product to be relational to its price. Consumers often believe a high price of a product indicates a higher level of quality.\n\nEven though it is suggested that high prices seem to make certain products more desirable, consumers that fall in this category have their own perception of quality and make decisions based upon their own judgement. They may also use the premium price as an indicator of the product’s level of quality.\n\nIn their book, \"The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing\", Thomas Nagle and Reed Holden outline nine laws or factors that influence how a consumer perceives a given price and how price-sensitive s/he is likely to be with respect to different purchase decisions:\n\n\nPricing is the most effective profit lever.\nPricing can be approached at three levels: the industry, market, and transaction level.\n\n\nA \"price waterfall\" analysis helps businesses and sales personnel to understand the differences which arise between the reference or list price, the invoiced sale price and the actual price paid by a customer taking account of contract, sales and payment discounts.\n\nMany companies make common pricing mistakes. Jerry Bernstein's article \"Use Suppliers' Pricing Mistakes\" outlines several sales errors, which include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1434618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1434618", "title": "Propane refrigeration", "text": "Propane refrigeration\n\nPropane refrigeration is a type of compression refrigeration. Propane (R290) has been used successfully in industrial refrigeration for many years, and is emerging as an increasingly viable alternative for homes and businesses. Propane's operating pressures and temperatures are well suited for use in air conditioning equipment, but because of propane’s flammability, great care is required in the manufacture, installation and servicing of equipment that uses it as a refrigerant.\n\nPropane that is supplied for general use – such as in barbeques and patio heaters – is not suitable for use in refrigeration systems because it can contain high levels of contaminants, including moisture and unsaturated hydrocarbons. Only propane produced specifically for use in refrigeration systems – with a purity of at least 98.5% and moisture content below 10ppm (by weight) – should be used.\n\nWith a global warming potential (GWP) of 3 and an ozone depletion potential (ODP) of 0, R-290 is of very little threat to the environment. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has listed R-290 as an acceptable refrigerant substitute under its Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP), and recently exempted it from the venting prohibition in Section 608 of the Clean Air Act.\n"}
{"id": "26232621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26232621", "title": "Public relations in India", "text": "Public relations in India\n\nPublic relations, despite being over a century old across the world, began in India in the early 1990s. Though there were several individuals and small companies which started even before that, they offered PR with the limited scope of media relations only. It was only natural that the entrepreneurs who began these services came from a background of journalism, seen as a natural hunting ground for the nascent PR industry.\n\nIndia came with many advantages in the context of PR - it showed a consistently high growth rate of the economy; the initial penetration of PR had been low leaving much scope for growth, the internet & traditional media also penetrated exponentially giving rise to the quick rise of PR in India. Though some international PR agencies (usually offshoots of advertising agencies) like Ogilvy PR set base in India in the mid-1980s, they floundered to find a firm footing especially since their core focus remained mainly in advertising services. By the early 1990s, after the opening up of the Indian economy, several other PR agencies started with a core focus on PR alone like Lexicon PR in 1996. This decade also saw the advent of Indian IPO agencies offshoots like Ad factors PR began to offer PR services as a freebee along with their IPO services. These recent past b2p relations has been emerging as a best PR practice in Chennai. And media monitoring across South India is now made possible through b2p relations.\n\nIf the 90s were the starting block for the Indian PR sector, the next decade was the growth era. Significant in this time was the full buyout of Genesis by Burson Marsteller, and the investment in [Hanmer & Partners] by MS&L, a Publicis company. Edelman entered India with by taking over Roger Periera, the grand old man of PR. In 2002, specialist agencies like Blue Lotus Communications took birth with a focus on specialized sectors like Healthcare, Technology, Finance and Brands. With the decade almost coming to a close, 2008 saw the birth of i9 Communications, as a specialist in consumer communication, with special focus on Brands, Lifestyle, Entertainment and Hospitality PR. Several such boutique agencies also started in other parts of the country.\n\nAfter the economic slowdown and the resultant market crashes worldwide, several international PR agencies suffered enormous losses when clients cut back marketing budgets. This forced these agencies to turn to higher growth markets like India and China. India naturally took a higher priority due to its large English-speaking base, stable political governance and consistent legal structure. The color of the market has flowered from grey to blue in this decade and the corporate's need for image building and strategic PR is very well understood and accepted.\n\nAccording to the 2007 report on The State of the Public Relations Industry prepared by Paul Holmes (author of the Holmes Report), the western growth of PR has almost plateaued to a stable range of 9% to 11%, with the growth geographies being India (as too China) growing at four times the Western pace. To quote the report, \"The greatest future in growth is expected to come in China and India, with good prospects for growth in Eastern Europe (particularly those countries recently admitted to the European Union) and in the Middle East (albeit from a very small base)\". However, in 2012, the PR market has slowed down due to the overcrowding of the market.\nThe recession of 2008 &2009 gave birth to another terminology in India -Regional PR and the companies who were once upon a time hooked to pink papers, looking for presence in regional dailies. Regional Public Relations set up country's first such agency where core focus was on Tier-II & Tier-III cities. \nNaturally then, India and similar paced economies have become favored destinations for global PR firms keen to extract their share of growth from this market. The late realization by many global majors that India has an equal or superior potential than China, has left quite a few panting in the race for market-share. However, in 2012, the PR market has slowed down due to the overcrowding of the market with too many fighting for too few.\nyear 2009 again witness the rising of this industry but more over in tier II markets. Some regional specialist came up very fast to serve the vast PR business in secondary markets. Regional Public Relations was first such PR agency who rolled down from tier-II market only.\n\nSparkling Stories, a well known Pune based PR agency was also founded in this decade and in small time it took a giant step in the movies and consumer products area.\n\nThe first Public Relations agency of North East India, Cabsford PR, was set up in 2002 by Nurul Islam Laskar, former Chief Manager (PR & Community Services Banking) State Bank of India. Life's Purple is now among one of the big agencies operating from Guwahati, working across Northeast India.\n\nNow PR has started touching the boundaries of advertising & marketing. In early 2016, digital consulting company #ARM Worldwide started their dedicated PR unit and within a year emerged as an organisation for executing most creative PR stunt apart from getting various accolades from reputed organisation like IPRCA 2016, Fulcrum Awards 2017 & IAMAI. There is a list of top PR agency which started in 2000s, APCO Worldwide India, Concept, H+K Strategies India, Golinopinion, Cohn & Wolfe Six Degrees, Communincate India, PR Pundit, Aim High Consulting, Madison Public Relations, Integral are few of them.\n\nOn January 7, 2009, Ramalinga Raju, the erstwhile chairman of Satyam Ltd., India's leading IT firm, made an admission of conscious fraud & misreporting perpetrated by him over several years. The media who had eulogized him till then, suddenly turned on him with a vengeance, conscious that they had also failed in their duty as watchdogs of businesses. This crisis, coincided with the peak of the global crisis and held the potential to snowball into a credibility & trust issue for brand India and its IT firms, where several billion dollars worth of services were being outsourced every year. The crisis also impacted several companies associated with Satyam including EMRI (Emergency Medical Response Insititute ), a not-for-profit endeavour (for running free ambulance services) in which Satyam had committed 5% of running costs with the balance 95% coming from various state governments.\n\nHowever, the Indian government took quick action and set up an interim board consisting of industry stalwarts for the company to assess the true worth of Satyam and to seek a suitable investor & management.The swiftly conducted and fiercely contested bid was won by Mahindra & Mahindra and Satyam was merged with a group IT company.\n\nAfter the global slowdown that hit Indian Public relation agencies in 2008, it took a further hit in November 2010 due to what has come to be known as the 'Radiagate' scam. Open Magazine in an exposé, covered the story of Niira Radia's nefarious power-dealings. An Income Tax phone tap collected more than 5000 tapes and hundreds of these tapes were leaked and found their way into Outlook magazine's website. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) interrogated Radia several times and as a fallout of the tapes, the Telecom minister, A. Raja, with whom Radia had close links was also forced to resign. Several prominent journalists like Barkha Dutt and Vir Sanghvi were also in the middle of the quagmire, caught in power-lobbying conversations with Radia.\n\nPublic Relations has been taught as a curriculum for the last decade or so in India.\n\nSchool of Communications & Reputation (SCoRe) is India's only public relations institute endorsed by the Public Relations Consultants Association of India (PRCAI). It is the brainchild of communications professionals and veterans who felt the need for a school that offers a practice-oriented programme for graduates entering the profession. SCoRe has an Advisory Board and an Academic Council comprising eminent global and India PR professionals.\n\nThe 10-months programme commences from July with sessions running full-time and is designed to cover both fundamental and advanced aspects of Public Relations (PR) which includes Brand management, campaign planning, media relations, strategic storytelling, client servicing and business development. Political Communications and Public Affairs are also covered as disciplines. From case studies, live projects and workshops SCoRe offers candidates a complete overview of the Public relations and communication discipline. Once enrolled for the programme, the candidates will get a chance to be a part of India's biggest Communications conferences and seminars including PRAXIS - the world's largest Public Relations summit.\n\nIn June 2015, it became the only institute in India to be endorsed by the Public Relations Consultants Association of India (PRCAI). As a part of this endorsement At least four representatives from PRCAI member firms become part of the Academic Council of SCoRe, along with PRCAI scholarships, where the seats are offered at half the fee.\n\nIn 2018, SCoRe launched The ‘PR Talent Hunt Scholarship in association with PRCAI’ to identify scholars to the programme, who possess exceptional abilities and commitment towards building a career in Public Relations. Under the ‘PR Talent Hunt Scholarship in association with PRCAI’, 15 ‘PRCAI Scholars’ will qualify for a 50% scholarship to the Post Graduate Programme in Public Relations by SCoRe. In addition to that, scholars receive certificates endorsing this achievement along with access to several learning and networking platforms co-created by SCoRe \n\nSome of the leading PR firms that have tied up for placement with SCoRe include Adfactors PR, MSLGROUP, Genesis Burson-Marsteller, Ketchum Inc. Sampark, Golinopinion, ZenoGroup, Madison Public Relations, Kaizzen Communications, Value 360, PR Pundit, Ideosphere and Mavcomm among others. The school will assist in one internship per student in a PR firm, or a corporate house or the office of an elected political leader. However, students have the choice to secure a second internship and do two internships of two months each\n\nStella Maris College (Chennai) a well known women's college in Chennai provides with a full-fledged Masters in Public Relations for two year's, the department has completed ten years.\n\nUniversity of Mumbai's Department of Communication and Journalism offers a two-year (full-time) Master of Arts (M.A) degree course in Public Relations. Whistling Woods International's School of Communication (SOC) in Mumbai has a post graduate program that allows one to specialize in PR and Corporate Communications along with an MBA(global) degree in Media and Entertainment. Stella Maris College provides with a full-fledged Masters in Public Relations.\n\nLoyola College, Chennai's Department of Visual Communication at has been offering PR related classes for a semester at PG level where PR campaign is considered as an annual venture for students.Some of the notable PR campaigns conducted by Loyola PG students are Road Safety, Right to Vote, Cybersafe, FOBO an internet addiction campaign, and Detox -a Media Education Campaign.\n\nBharathidasan Institute of Management, Trichy - also offers a course elective - Public Relations & Corporate Communications. The PR campaigns here are woven around social concerns and on public awareness.\n\nNIMCJ - National Institute of Mass Communication and Journalism, provides specialization in Public Relation. PR helps in building confidence while dealing with media people, whether verbally or in written form which helps in drafting press releases.\n\nThe Delhi School of Communication (Delhi), Xavier's Institute of Communications (Mumbai) and Symbiosis Institute of Media and Communication (Pune and Banglore), most of the courses are combined with Journalism or Mass Communications. The Mudra Institute of Communications (MICA) is mainly focused on advertising and AICAR (Asian Institute of Communications & Research) started with an MBA and communication which soon became limited to advertising only. Makhanlal Chaturvedi National University Of Journalism and Communication, Bhopal offers a two-year MA in PR course. Also, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB) spread across the country offers PR courses. BVBs are located in all major cities that includes New Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.\n\nThe Brand Trust Report, India Study, 2011 () and its subsequent reports in 2012, 2013 and 2014, published by Trust Research Advisory (TRA) was designed to give unique insights to brands on messages of communication. The report is a result of a syndicated primary research on Brand Trust that generated 10,00,000 data points and 16,000 unique brands, from over 10,000 hours of fieldwork conducted in 9 cities. The subsequent reports were a result of a primary research conducted in 16 Indian cities.\n\nThe leading Indian blogs and mangazines on public relations are PR moment and Reputation Today\n\nThe basis of the study is the proprietary 61-components of Brand Trust, and the 2310 respondents targeted in this study have an influencers’ profile. The report has a detailed analysis the 50 Most Trusted Brands in India and has listings of the All-India 300. This first edition of this study, published in January 2011, has listed Most Trusted Brands out of 16000 unique brands that were generated. A 2012 book titled Decoding Communication authored by N.Chandramouli, covering the theories and practice of communication was launched.\n\nWith several initiatives and boost support taking into account the rise in Digital Innovation many Indian PR Agencies started expanding their viewpoint via integrating more expertise with respect to Image Management needs of Indian Corporations seeking PR Support. The Assocham report released in March 2010 shows the growth of the PR industry in India to grow to US$6 billion by end of 2010 with a CAGR of approximately 32%. The study reports the biggest challenges of the PR industry to be the following: \n\nConsidering this, for this fledgling, but fast growing sector to flourish, the need of academic rigor and theoretical pedagogy is essential\n\nIn 2010, The Holmes Report, an international report that rates PR agencies across the globe awarded Blue Lotus Communications the Indian Consultancy of the year for 2010.\n\nThe Holmes Report also awarded the consultancy of the year award for 2011 to Corporate Voice | Weber Shandwick. Corporate Voice Weber Shandwick's campaign for Gillette India won India's first PR Lion at Cannes in 2010.\n\nIn 2011, IPRCCA, India Public Relations and Corporate Communications Awards (IPRCCA), instituted an award for PR agencies.\n\nIn 2016, IPRCA awarded S.P.A.G for ‘Time to Un'burden' - Commitment to reduce the NCD burden in India through a multi-sectoral approach’ for Partnership to Fight Chronic Diseases, ARM Digital Media Pvt. Ltd. for “A hilarious attempt by TE-A-ME to \"Purify\" Donald Trump\" for TE-A-ME, 20:20 MSL for Saffolalife's “Saffolalife Walk together to #protectherheart”, Value360 Communications for Paytm's “Building a National Leader - Vijay Shekhar Sharma”, Golinopinion for Lifebuoy's \"Help a Child Reach 5\" and Text 100 for Telenor's Webwise Programme.\n\nIn 2017, Marketing Interactive awarded \"Most Creative PR Stunt - South East Asia\" in PR Awards 2017 to an emerging Indian origin digital and communication consulting firm, #ARM Worldwide for executing \"Tea for Trump\" campaign.\n"}
{"id": "46753689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46753689", "title": "Rescale", "text": "Rescale\n\nFounded in 2011 in San Francisco, California by Joris Poort (CEO) and Adam McKenzie (CTO), Rescale is a startup that develops a cloud computing simulation platform. Rescale was a Y Combinator company and has received $6.4M in funding from high-profile investors including Sam Altman, Jeff Bezos, Richard Branson, Chris Dixon, Paul Graham, and Peter Thiel.\n\nThe founders previously built a software technology stack at Boeing saving the company over $180M through weight improvements on the 787 Dreamliner.\n\nThe Rescale platform combines engineering and science software tools with high performance computing (HPC) to create a cloud simulation environment. \"Design Engineering\" magazine describes Rescale as \"...a good fit for manufacturers who need to run complex simulation and optimization jobs, but don't have the HPC hardware required.\" \n\n\"The Platform\" noted in May, 2015 that Rescale claims the largest known globally available commercial HPC network with \"...eight million servers globally with a potential 1,400 petaflops of compute capacity ... across 30 global datacenters.\" \n\nRescale has partnerships with engineering software companies in the computer aided engineering space including: ANSYS, CD-adapco, Dassault Systemes, MSC Software, and Siemens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1652128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1652128", "title": "Reunion Tower", "text": "Reunion Tower\n\nReunion Tower is a observation tower in Dallas, Texas and one of the city's most recognizable landmarks. Located at 300 Reunion Boulevard in the Reunion district of downtown Dallas, the tower is part of the Hyatt Regency Hotel complex, and is the city's 15th tallest building. A free-standing structure until the construction of an addition to the Hyatt Regency Dallas in 1998, the tower was designed by architectural firm Welton Becket & Associates.\n\nReunion Tower, also known locally as \"The Ball,\" was completed on February 2, 1978, along with the Hyatt Regency Dallas at Reunion, as part of an urban redevelopment project that also renovated the historic Union Station, which today services Amtrak, Dallas Area Rapid Transit, and the Trinity Railway Express to Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport and Fort Worth.\n\nWhen it first opened, the tower included radio station KOAX-FM, now KRLD-FM 105.3 FM, once owned by Westinghouse Broadcasting (\"Live twenty-four hours a day from five-hundred feet above the city\"). Because it is not used as a broadcast tower it is not listed in the FCC Database.\n\nReunion Tower reopened its restaurant level on February 9, 2009, after it was closed for major renovations on November 16, 2007. The observation deck reopened October 5, 2013, just in time for the Tower's 35th anniversary.\n\nThe tower is located about 1,000 feet from Dealey Plaza and the site of the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nThe tower contains three floors with circular floor plans on top of four shafts of poured-in-place concrete. A central cylindrical shaft houses both stairs and mechanical equipment. Three rectangular shafts, featuring elevators, rise parallel to the central shaft. Each shaft's outfacing wall is made up of glass panels, providing tourists views of the city during the 68-second elevator ride to the top. Before renovations in 2008, the first level housed the observation deck, the second a revolving restaurant called \"Antares\", and the third level a club called \"The Dome\". The top three floors are encased in an open-air sphere, which is a geodesic dome formed with aluminum struts. Every one of the struts' 260 intersections is covered by aluminum circles with lights in the center.\n\nAt night, the globe at the building's top is illuminated with 259 custom LED fixtures, manufactured by Altman Lighting and Color Kinetics, a division of Philips Solid State Lighting. Wiedamark, a Dallas-based LED lighting company, led the development, installation and programming of the lights. The original lighting fixtures were conventional incandescent and every unit used 130 watts of electricity. Similarly, the new LED lighting system with all of its color and animation capabilities requires less than 1/5 of the electricity of the old system. Each point on the Reunion Tower is, in fact, using as much electricity as an average nightlight and as much 2 nightlights at its brightest setting.\nEvery fixture has a collaboration of several red, green and blue (RGB) LED lights that are diffused behind a 3/4-inch thick opaque glass cover. While each fixture is very large at nearly 16 inches in diameter, they function in the exact same way as a pixel on the screen of a cellular phone. By varying the intensity of red, green and blue, the system is able to create every visible color from pinks and purples to white. By moving these colors around the globe at a fluid rate, animations and movement are perceived. All 259 fixtures are controlled by Color Kinetics hardware to execute various computer-generated patterns and colors along the surface of the sphere. The DMX512 lighting protocol is used to communicate with the fixtures. Each fixture is manufactured from solid cast stainless steel and weighs over 20 pounds. Making the tower an iconic landmark on the Dallas skyline, lighting on the globe is also used for special events and holidays across the city (for example, the winter season will feature seasonal colors and animations; for St. Patrick's Day, it will be illuminated in green; for patriotic events, it will be lit in red, white and blue; etc.) The globe was lit up in rainbow colors on June 26, 2015 to celebrate the supreme court ruling which legalized same sex marriage.\n\nCelebrity chef Wolfgang Puck opened the fine-dining, revolving restaurant, \"Five Sixty\" on the tower's rotating top level on February 11, 2009. The name is a reference to the restaurant's elevation. The middle floor of the tower is used for special events managed by Wolfgang Puck Catering, which is based at nearby Union Station.\n\nThe Observation level is called the \"GeO-Deck\". The interior facility includes an interactive digital experience featuring information about Dallas landmarks, Reunion Tower itself, the events of November 22, 1963, live view high-definition cameras and more. The exterior of the observation deck features telescopes with views in every direction.\n\nThe Cloud 9 Cafe is accessible from the observation deck, serving meals and snacks with a 360-degree view from behind glass.\n\nThe gift shop at the tower's base features souvenirs related to Reunion Tower, Dallas and Texas and other novelty items.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11976535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11976535", "title": "Sergio Ortiz-Luis Jr.", "text": "Sergio Ortiz-Luis Jr.\n\nSergio R. Ortiz-Luis Jr. is a management practitioner in the Philippines. He is the Chairman of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI), the official chamber of commerce of the Philippines.\n\nOrtiz-Luis holds degrees in Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from De La Salle College (now De La Salle University-Manila College of Business and Economics). He also obtained a Master of Business Administration from De La Salle Graduate School (now De La Salle Professional Schools Graduate School of Business). He was conferred Doctor of Humanities(honoris Causa) by the Central Luzon State University in 2006.\n\nOrtiz-Luis is the President of the Philippine Exporters Confederation, Inc. (PHILEXPORT). He is concurrently the Chairman of the Export and Industry Bank, a Philippine-based bank catering to the export industries.\n\nHe is the Chairman of the EIB Realty & Development Corporation, the real estate subsidiary of the Export and Industry Bank. He is the Founding Director of the Manila Exposition Complex, Inc., now popularly known as the World Trade Center in the Philippines.\n\nOrtiz-Luis is the Chairman of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI). He is also a Commissioner of the Social Security System, the official social service provider of private companies in the country.\n\nHe is the Vice-Chairman of the Export Development Council of the Philippines; Vice-Chairman, Philippine Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Foundation; and Vice President and Governor of the Employers Confederation of the Philippines, the largest association of employers in the country.\n\nOrtiz-Luis has been appointed Honorary Consul General of the Consulate of Romania in the Philippines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14148321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14148321", "title": "Sluggo Boyce", "text": "Sluggo Boyce\n\nRobert Doucet Boyce, better known as Sluggo, is a professional skateboarder, snowboarder, break-dancer, gymnast, stuntman, and businessman from Vancouver, British Columbia. Sluggo is best known for his skateboarding. He is also the first person to perform a back flip to fakie on a vertical skate ramp. Sluggo currently shares ownership of a skateboarding distribution company, Centre Distribution, and oversees the day to day operations of RDS Skate Supply and Red Dragon Apparel. He has two children, Liam and Araya.\n\nSluggo was born in Victoria, British Columbia where he started as a gymnast winning the Western Canadian Championships at age 13. Rob also took up break-dancing where he won several competitions and placed 5th in a North American break-dance contest.\n\nHe began his skateboard career at the age of 15 on the advice of a classmate. At age 16, a friend suggested the name \"Sluggo\", because of his supposed resemblance to the character in the comic strip \"Nancy\". Sluggo honed his vertical skateboard skills at the Richmond Skate Ranch, owned by Kevin Harris, a local pro skater for Powell Peralta. This is where he would also meet his future crew, best friends, and business partners Colin McKay, and Moses Itkonen. The crew came to be known as the \"Red Dragons\".\n\nSluggo caught the eye of Stacey Peralta, director of the Dog-town documentary, and owner of Powell Peralta Skateboards. Stacey introduced Sluggo to Henry Hester, a skateboard legend from Southern California who ran G&S. Sluggo rode for G&S from 1988 till 1990. Later Sluggo would ride for Real Skateboards owned by Tommy Guererro and Jim Thiebaud from Peralta’s world famous \"Bones Brigade\".\n\nSluggo turned pro in 1991 and traveled to the World Championships in Munster, Germany and competed for the first time against his childhood heroes Chris Miller, Tony Hawk and a long list of highly regarded veteran skaters. Sluggo placed 5th in his first international competition.\n\nSkateboarding took a down turn in the public eye from 1993 - 1996. Sluggo still continued to skate and compete all over the world but the industry had down-sized. Vertical skateboarding had fallen out of favor and street skating had taken over.\nThe Red Dragons have always prided themselves on being well rounded skaters who skated everything that they had at their disposal which was usually downtown Vancouver, the breeding ground for some of the best skateboarders in the world.\n\nIn 1992, Sluggo’s younger brother Dave Boyce introduced him to snowboarding, and he quickly rose to success in that sport as well. After two seasons under his belt, he became one of Canada’s most published snowboarders showing up in almost every snowboard magazine that came out in 1994. This opened the doors to many sponsorship deals and trips all over the world to film and shoot photos. Was sponsored by snowboard manufacture, World Industries and had a signature board. Not many boards were produced and are impossible to find in good condition. \n\nSluggo is now a full UBCP union stunt performer in the Canadian movie industry. He started his stunt career doubling Dean Cain in a Wesley Snipes production, \"Future Sport\". Sluggo has over 60 TV and feature credits to his name either acting or stunting.\n\nHe was skate coordinator on the NBC TV series \"Sk8\".\n\nSluggo retired from snowboarding professionally in 2000 but continued to skateboard professionally until 2004. He came out of retirement briefly to compete in the Canadian Half-Pipe Championship in March 2005 and won the event.\n"}
{"id": "18541336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18541336", "title": "Spring Street Financial District", "text": "Spring Street Financial District\n\nThe Spring Street Financial District, referred to as the Wall Street of the West, is a historic district in Downtown Los Angeles. The historic district includes 23 financial structures, including the city's first skyscraper, and three hotels all located along a stretch of South Spring Street from just north of Fourth Street to just south of Seventh Streets. In the first half of the 20th Century, this stretch of Spring Street was the financial center of Los Angeles, with the important banks and financial institutions being concentrated there. At least ten of the buildings in the district were designed in whole or in part by John Parkinson, who designed many of the city's landmark buildings in the early 20th Century, including the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, Los Angeles City Hall, Bullocks Wilshire, and Union Station. Ten of the buildings in the district have been designated as Historic-Cultural Monuments by the Los Angeles Cultural Heritage Commission.\n\nIn the 1890s, the city's business center was further north near South Spring and Temple Streets. The street can claim credit as the birthplace of the motion picture business in Los Angeles. In 1898, Thomas Edison filmed a 60-second film titled \"South Spring Street Los Angeles California\", mounting a giant camera on a wagon to film the bustling action along South Spring Street.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the city center began spreading south, and the city's banks and financial institutions began concentrating along South Spring Street. The first two important buildings to make the move south were the Hellman and Continental Buildings, with the Continental Building being considered the city's first skyscraper. In 1911, the \"Los Angeles Times\" boasted about the building boom on Spring Street:\n\nThe visitor to this city can at this moment observe skyscrapers in all stages of construction. It is a study which will provide the most comprehensible kind of answer to the query as to why Los Angeles is leading San Francisco, Portland, Seattle, St. Louis, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Baltimore, Detroit, Minneapolis, New Orleans, Boston, Buffalo and all other cities of anything near her in building activity as revealed by the monthly expenditures for construction work.\n\nThe building boom along South Spring Street continued into the 1920s as the population and economy of Los Angeles boomed. South Spring Street remained the city's financial center even after World War II.\n\nIn the 1960s, many of the banks and financial institutions began moving to the western part of the downtown area, along Figueroa Street and Wilshire Boulevard. By the early 1980s, South Spring Street had become known for \"transients who sleep in doorways and urinate on sidewalks.\" In 1982, the \"Los Angeles Times\" commented on the district's decline from \"Wall Street of the West\" to a blighted area with empty office buildings lining both sides of the street:\"When the banks and law firms moved to the 'Gold Coast' typified by Arco Towers, six blocks to the west, Spring Street plummeted to become a neighborhood of hoodlums, derelicts and winos—a neighborhood of echoing buildings full of absolutely nothing above the ground floor.\" \n\nSince the early 1980s, South Spring Street has been the subject of numerous redevelopment projects. In recent years, numerous art galleries have moved into the old financial district, which is now known as Gallery Row. Many of the old bank buildings have also been converted into upscale lofts. As wealthier residents have moved into the district's lofts, older residents and artists have complained about the increased rents. One artist who had lived in the district for years said:\n\nThe real problem with downtown lately, Gronk and his friends half-jokingly agreed is 'those people.' Westsiders. Trust-fund babies. New tenants who demand their bohemian pleasures be liberally sweetened with suburban amenities. Landlords who previously recruited artists to help make downtown 'safe' for gentrification, then jacked up their rents so only lawyers and screenwriters could afford it.\n\nThe strength of the district remains its period architecture. Many of the Beaux Arts facades along Spring Street remain virtually intact, making the district a popular shooting location for motion picture and television productions seeking authentic period cityscapes. In 1985, noted \"Los Angeles Times\" columnist Jack Smith pointed to the Spring Street Financial District as proof that \"Los Angeles was never the cultural wasteland it was alleged to be.\" He hailed the district's \"financial palaces\" as \"a solid architectural achievement\" which give the street \"beauty, strength, unity and dignity.\"\n\nNotable buildings in the district (from north to south) include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDue to the large percentage of historic bank and financial buildings that remain intact in the district, the area was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. The Los Angeles Conservancy offers walking tours of the Spring Street Financial District on the fourth Saturday of each month at 10 a.m.; the tour lasts approximately 2-1/2 hours and costs $10 for the general public (reduced rate for Conservancy members).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47307775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47307775", "title": "Stine Bosse", "text": "Stine Bosse\n\nChristine 'Stine' Bosse is a Danish businesswoman.\n\nBosse gained a Masters of Law degree from the University of Copenhagen in 1987.\n\nUpon graduation, Bosse began working for TrygVesta, a Nordic insurance agency, rising up the ranks until she became an executive manager in 1999. In 2003 she was appointed CEO, and in 2009 the \"Financial Times\" identified her as \"the 22nd most influential businesswoman in the world\".\n\nThe United Nations appointed Bosse as an Advocate for the Millennium Development Goals in 2010, and she left TrygVesta in 2011, becoming a professional board member and subject-matter expert. In 2015 she was appointed President of the European Movement in Denmark, taking over from Anne E. Jensen, and separately became the new Chair of the Board of BankNordik. She is also President of the Royal Danish Theatre, a Member of the Board of Allianz, a non-executive director of Aker, and serves as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Copenhagen in the Department of Operations Management.\n\n"}
{"id": "2416041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2416041", "title": "The Prague Post", "text": "The Prague Post\n\nThe Prague Post was an English language newspaper covering the Czech Republic and Central and Eastern Europe which published its first weekly issue on October 1, 1991. It published a printed edition weekly until July, 2013 when it dropped the printed product to focus on its online platforms, including the website PraguePost.com, a Kindle edition and online subscriptions.. In 2016 Prague Post filed for bankruptcy.\n\nCompared to other Prague-based English newspapers, Prognosis 1991-1995 and Prague Pill 2001-2003 —the Prague Post was the longest running English-language newspaper in the Czech Republic. Its target audience included English-speaking expatriates living in the Czech Republic or neighboring countries, Czech readers seeking news from an international perspective and tourists visiting the Czech Republic. With a print run of about 19,000 copies, The Prague Post reached approximately 40,000 readers a week with its print edition published every Wednesday. In 2013, The Prague Post ceased its print edition and moved to an online-only format. Its website at its peak had 40,000 unique users generating 150,000 page views per month.\n\nThe history of the newspaper began in Prague, two years after the Velvet Revolution, specifically in 1991.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" was an English-language information source in the Czech Republic through its newspaper, and related products and services.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" newspaper was published by Prague Post, spol. s r.o. (spol. s r.o. = Ltd.).\n\nIn July 1991, Lisa Frankenberg and Kent Hawryluk, two employees of \"Prognosis\", an English-language monthly newspaper in Prague which began publication in March 1991, came to the realization that there was a ripe market in the then Czechoslovakia for a weekly broadsheet newspaper.\n\nTogether with Monroe Luther, an investor from Houston, Texas, they formed Lion’s Share Group, a privately held, Czech limited-liability company (spol s r.o.) that was created to be the information leader in the region. Kent Hawryluk served as Founding Publisher and Lisa Frankenberg as Founding General Manager. Other programs introduced at that time were the Business Network, Lion’s Share Group Publishing and the Prague Post Foundation (set up separately as a Czech-registered, non-profit foundation, and which later became The Prague Post Endowment Fund with the change in Czech nonprofit laws).\n\nThe mission of \"The Prague Post\" was simple and direct: to publish the best possible English-language newspaper for and about the rapidly changing Czechoslovakia and more broadly, Central Europe. The aim was to place particular emphasis on news, business, and cultural listings.\n\nAlan Levy, a foreign correspondent for the International Herald Tribune and author of \"So Many Heroes\", an eyewitness account of the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, was hired as the Founding Editor-in-Chief. The original staff hired by Levy included former reporters and editors from a wide range of magazines and daily newspapers, including the \"Sacramento Bee\", \"Sacramento Union\", \"The New York Review of Books\", \"Business International\", the \"Grinnell Herald-Register\", \"Fortune\" magazine and the \"Tampa Tribune\".\n\nLion’s Share Group established the wholly owned subsidiary company Prague Post s.r.o. in March 1994 to take over the publishing of the newspaper, while Lion’s Share Group became a holding company.\n\n1991\n\n\"The Prague Post\", located in a small room off Old Town Square in Prague, debuted with a 12-page issue on 1 October 1991. The first paper covered news and business, offered a weekly calendar of listings and included a regular pub guide.\n\nIn late 1991, the paper moved to larger offices on Politických vězňů, off Wenceslas Square, and increased to 16 pages.\n\n1992\nIn February 1992, \"Night & Day\", a redesigned and enlarged cultural listings section, was introduced. A regular features page concentrating on in-depth news, culture and lifestyle articles debuted in early May 1992.\n\nThe paper underwent extensive redesign, increased to 24 pages, switched street delivery days from Tuesdays to Wednesdays and moved printing operations to Frankfurt, Germany, on 18 November 1992. This enabled it to offer color capability to advertisers, higher quality print resolution and more timely international distribution. Several new regular sections appeared at this time including sports, \"The Big Picture\", a page devoted to news from Central and Eastern European regions and \"East View\", a column of material from other English-language newspapers in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nKent Hawryluk’s day-to-day involvement with the newspaper ended in December 1992, and Lisa Frankenberg took over the responsibilities of publisher. An additional suite of rooms was added to the offices at Politických vězňů and the staff continued to expand, along with the company’s investment in computers and publishing equipment.\n\n1993\nA monthly supplement devoted to special news coverage about Slovakia and entertainment listings for Bratislava was introduced in January, 1993, but was later curtailed as reporting became more difficult in Slovakia. In July 1993, \"Summer in the City\" was published as a tabloid insert for the remaining weeks of the summer. The tabloid included up-to-the-minute travel information for tourists, filling in where the guidebooks left off.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" launched special pullout sections on 1 September 1993: \"Money & Markets,\" \"Travel & Leisure\" and \"Real Estate.\" These sections, aimed at providing expert, specialized coverage, appeared on the first, second and third weeks of the month, respectively. The remaining week(s) of each month were filled with a series of special topics, including \"Computers & Technology\", \"The Modern Office\", \"Human Resources\" and \"Fashion.\" The special sections have changed and evolved over the years in response to readers’ needs.\n\nThe newspaper moved into newly reconstructed offices in the historic YMCA building at Na Poříčí 12 on 1 December 1993.\n\n1994\n\"The Prague Post\" underwent a significant redesign on January 19, 1994, transforming the second section into the tabloid-size pullout \"Night & Day\". This newly designed pullout consisted of articles detailing culture, features, listings, and a Prague Profile. It also introduced several new additions such as the Service Page, Ask Eva (an advice column), My Gene Pool (a cartoon strip) and reviews. The front section of the paper, consisting of news, business, sports and opinion also received a design improvement at this time.\n\nLater in 1994, \"Night & Day\" increased in size to include the classifieds section. At this time, the business editorial department also began publishing weekly researched industry lists that are included in the annual Book of Lists.\n\n1995\nThe 1995 \"Book of Lists\", under development throughout 1994, was published in early 1995. An updated version of the \"Book of Lists\" was published annually until 2000.\n\nIn 1995 the paper continued to grow in all areas as advertising revenue increased. The Prague Post began sponsoring two well-known events: the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival and the Valtice Arts Festival.\n\n1996\n\"The Prague Post\" celebrated its 5th Anniversary on 28 September 1996, with a black-tie, gala evening at Národní Dům na Vinohradech, attended by over 1,000 guests with dignitaries, including five ambassadors, past and present employees and clients. This Gala event was a memorable evening, aptly marking a significant occasion in the life of the newspaper and its importance in the market.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" added sponsorship of the Prague International Marathon in the summer of 1996, and published a 12-page, four-color tabloid Holiday Shopping Guide for the month of December.\n\n1997\nIn April 1997, \"The Prague Post\" was awarded first place for ‘Excellence in Newspaper Marketing’ by the International Newspaper Marketing Association for an in-house marketing campaign.\n\nOn 1 April 1997, \"The Prague Post\" launched its website at www.praguepost.cz (today it is \"www.praguepost.com\"). The initial site offered several top stories from the weekly newspaper as well as information for tourists and relocation information for people planning to move to Prague. It quickly gained a significant following, particularly with readers based outside the Czech Republic.\n\n1998\nIn May, 1998, Lisa Frankenberg returned from business school to resume an active role in the day-to-day operations of the newspaper as President and Publisher.\n\n1999\nThe newspaper underwent another significant redesign near the end of 1999. Randy Stano, winner of two Pulitzer prizes for design, was recruited to undertake the process of re-designing the newspaper. \"The Prague Post\" was granted an Award of Excellence for re-design by the Society of News Design.\n\nThe offices of \"The Prague Post\" were relocated to a two-story office space at Štěpánská 20 in Prague 1.\n\n2000\nSince its strong debut, \"The Prague Post\" has attracted much international media coverage, with articles about the paper and its staff appearing in \"USA Today\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\", \"Smithsonian\", \"Fortune\", \"The Columbia Journalism Review\", \"Advertising Age\", \"The European\" and \"Telegraph\" of London. In addition, the newspaper was profiled on BBC, NBC, CBS (60 Minutes and the CBS Evening News) and ABC (Prime Time Live and the ABC Evening News).\n\n\"The Prague Post\" was re-launched with its new design and format on 19 January 2000. Printing of the newspaper was moved from Frankfurt to a printing house in Prague.\n\n2001\n\"The Prague Post\" received three design awards from the Society of News Design in 2001. The website was re-designed and re-launched in the autumn 2001. Its new face attracted new and existing readers with an estimated 10,000 hits per day.\n\n2002-2003\n\"The Prague Post\" introduced a successful new product – \"Dining Out Guide\" – first published in 2003. It is a guide to the finest culinary experiences in Prague.\n\n2004\nOn 2 April 2004 Alan Levy died, aged 72. Two weeks later, \"The Prague Post\" said goodbye to its founding editor-in-chief in a public memorial service attended by numerous personalities of Czech political, business and cultural life.\n\n2005\nThe company also worked toward improving the quality of the paper and the services provided, including the rest of its publishing portfolio – the \"Book of Lists\" and \"Dining Out Guide\".\n\n2006\nIn 2006, \"The Prague Post\" proudly celebrated its 15th birthday. The night was in recognition of The Prague Post’s long-standing tradition as a reputable English-language newspaper in the Czech Republic.\n\nFormer and current staff were recognized on the night for their contributions to the development and growth of the Czech Republic’s oldest and most popular English-language newspaper. Alan Levy was remembered and recognized on the night for his years of service and dedication to the paper.\n\n2007\nIn 2007, two new supplements were added to the newspaper. The \"Luxury Hotel Guide\" was designed to provide an in-depth look into the luxury hotels around Prague, while the \"Weddings\" supplement offers insight into all facets of wedding planning.\n\nIn 2007, \"The Prague Post\" also helped with the revival of English-language theater in Prague with the launching of the first annual Prague Post Playwriting Contest.\n\n2008\nThe Prague Post launches a digital edition for Amazon Kindle, the first paper in the Czech Republic to do so. Web vendor Amazon ranks it as the best-selling Czech newspaper in the Czech Republic on the device.\n\n2010\nThe Prague Post Blogs section was launched, offering additional content not published in the newspaper on topics including politics, food, film, books, music, news and education.\n\n2013\n\"The Prague Post\" stops issuing a print version and moves to online-only distribution.\n\n2016\n\"The Prague Post\" files with the Czech insolvency registry Prague Post closes operations due to bankruptcy. PraguePost.Com is no longer an active website.\n\nThe \"Prague Post\" has won a number of European awards for its innovative newspaper design. In November 2007, the paper saw a fifth consecutive win in the category of “Front Page Weekly Newspaper” as well as a Portfolio award for Design Editor Caroline Wren at the European Newspaper Awards.\n\n“Layout has always been very important for us,” commented then managing editor Will Tizard. “It is necessary to reflect our progressive reporting style from various fields in the layout,\" he said, adding “we are very proud of Caroline Wren's work.” \n\nIn 2010, the paper won Best Sectional Front Page at the same event for its Tempo cover story on guerrilla knitting, \"Going Rogue\".\n\nPast writers and other staff of The Prague Post have gone on to a wide range of positions in the international media as well as in other sectors. Here are some examples.\n\nMark Baker, the paper's first business editor, is the author of a number of travel guides, including books for \"Lonely Planet\" on Prague, the Czech Republic and Slovakia as well as guides for \"Frommer's\", \"Fodor's\" and \"National Geographic Society\" among others.\n\nDouglas Lytle served various roles at The Prague Post from 1991 until 1994 including managing editor. He is the author of Pink Tanks & Velvet Hangovers (North Atlantic Books/Frog Ltd) and bureau chief for \"Bloomberg News\" in the Czech Republic and Slovakia and an editor for Eastern Europe.\n\nWill Tizard, former managing editor, is Central/Eastern Europe correspondent for \"Variety\" and the author and editor of several travel guides including the \"Time Out Prague Guide\" and \"\". He is also a journalism and documentary professor at Anglo-American University and documentary film maker based in the Czech Republic.\n\nRoss Larsen was deputy news editor, news editor and senior editor at the Prague Post from 1992 to 1999. He later worked for search engine AltaVista in California and Dow Jones Newswires in London. He now works as an editor for Bloomberg News' EMEA Real Estate team in London.\n\nMichael Mainville was a reporter at The Prague Post from 2001 to 2002. He now works as the Caucasus correspondent for \"Agence France-Presse\".\n\nDean Calbreath was business editor of The Prague Post from 1993 to 1996. He is currently a reporter and columnist with \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\" and was part of an investigative reporting team that won the 2006 Pulitzer Prize.\n\nMichael Wann, the technology and science editor for \"Msnbc.com\", is a former managing editor of The Prague Post.\n\nSiegfried Mortkowitz was a news reporter and columnist for The Prague Post from 1996 to 2001. He went on to work for \"Newsweek\" and later returned to Prague after working for 10 years as the Paris correspondent for the German Press Agency (\"Deutsche Presse-Agentur\").\n\nDinah A. Spritzer served a variety of editorial roles for The Prague Post from 2001 to 2005. She presently writes on Central and Eastern Europe for \"The New York Times\", \"USA Today\" and the \"Jewish Telegraphic Agency\". She also teaches international reporting at New York University in Prague.\n\nJames Pitkin was a former copy editor, culture editor and news reporter with The Prague Post. He went on to work for \"Willamette Week\", an alternative newspaper in Portland, Oregon.\n\nRichard Andrade was a designer with The Prague Post from 1993-1996. Since 1999 he has been the Founder and CEO of BarristerBooks, Inc., the entity which operates the Internet's largest network of independent legal academic bookstores.\n\nMichele Legge was a Prague Post reporter from 1995 to 1999. She now manages media for the Australian \"Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs\" in Canberra.\n\nAndrew Greene was a business reporter and news reporter with The Prague Post from 2012-2013. He has resumed his position as a political reporter with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in Canberra.\n\nThe Prague Post Endowment Fund began as the Prague Post Foundation, a local non-profit organization founded in 1992. The goals were to enrich education and foster a place for the non-profit sector in the Czech Republic. Originally the PPF published a weekly column, \"Networking,\" which was the only source of news and information about the newly developing Czech Civil Society and non-profit sector. It also provided bi-weekly English-language education programs based on \"The Prague Post\" newspaper for secondary schools throughout the Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\nIn 1997, Czech laws changed to recognize the increasing role of non-profit organizations. The Prague Post Foundation became The Prague Post Endowment Fund. Educational materials were sent along with \"The Prague Post\" to more than 60 schools throughout the Czech Republic. The Fund provided scholarships and supported young journalists.\n\n\"The Prague Post\" Playwriting Contest started in 2007 with the goal of bringing together artists and the theater-going community. For its inaugural year, more than 100 scripts were submitted. Organized in conjunction with The Prague Playhouse, a local English-language theater company, the contest theater entertainment for the expat community and also sought to help galvanize local writers, actors, producers and directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "14937790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14937790", "title": "William Andrew Paton", "text": "William Andrew Paton\n\nWilliam Andrew Paton (July 19, 1889 - April 26, 1991) was an American accountancy scholar, known as founder of the American Accounting Association in 1916, and was founder and first editor of its flagship journal \"The Accounting Review\".\n\nPaton was born near Calumet, Michigan to Andrew Patton, teacher and superintendent of the local school system, and Mary Nowlin Paton, also teacher. The family settled on a farm, engaging Patton with farm work in his youth. Paton studied at the University of Michigan, where he obtained his AB and PhD in economics in 1917. In 1927 he obtained his Certified Public Accountant license for the State of Michigan.\n\nAfter graduation Paton started his academic career at the University of Michigan in 1914. After a year as Assistant Professor at the University of Minnesota in 1916-17, he returned to the University of Michigan, where he was Professor of accounting and of economics from 1921 to his retirement in 1958. He has been visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley (1937-28), at Harvard University (1939–40, at the University of Chicago (1959–60), and at the University of Kentucky (1968–69). Over the years he has been practicing consulting accountant, especially during vacation periods.\n\nIn 1916 Paton co-founded the American Accounting Association, and served as its president in 1922-23. He was founding editor-in-chief of its \"The Accounting Review\" from 1926 to 1929. In 1940 he and A. C. Littleton edited for the American Accounting Association the publication of \"An Introduction to Corporate Accounting Standards.\" Over the years Patton also participated in American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in several positions.\n\nPaton received the AICPA's Gold Medal Award in 1944 and was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in its first year, 1950. He was the recipient of the one-time \"Outstanding Educator of the Century\" prize by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, at the AICPA's 100th annual meeting in 1987. He was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 1950. Paton died at the age of 101 on April 26, 1991.\n\nPaton published more than 150 articles and numerous books, on his own or with co-authors, including:\n\n"}
