{"id": "30688587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30688587", "title": "Admission to the Union", "text": "Admission to the Union\n\nThe Admission to the Union Clause of the United States Constitution, often called the New States Clause, found at Article IV, Section 3, , authorizes the Congress to admit new states into the United States beyond the thirteen already in existence at the time the Constitution went into effect.\n\nThe Constitution went into effect on June 21, 1788, after ratification by 9 of the 13 states, and the federal government began operations under it on March 4, 1789. Since then, 37 additional states have been admitted into the Union. Each new state has been admitted on an equal footing with those already in existence.\n\nOf the 37 states admitted to the Union by Congress, all but six have been established within an existing U.S. organized incorporated territory. A state so created might encompass all or a portion of a territory. When the people of a territory or a region thereof would make their desire for statehood known to the federal government, in most cases Congress passed an enabling act authorizing the people of that territory or region to frame a proposed state constitution as a step toward admission to the Union. Although the use of an enabling act was a common historic practice, a number of states were admitted to the Union without one.\n\nIn many instances, an enabling act would detail the mechanism by which the territory would be admitted as a state following ratification of their constitution and election of state officers. Although the use of such an act is a traditional historic practice, a number of territories have drafted constitutions for submission to Congress absent an enabling act and were subsequently admitted. The broad outline for this process was established by the Land Ordinance of 1784 and the 1787 Northwest Ordinance, both of which predate the present U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe Admission to the Union Clause also forbids the creation of new states from parts of existing states without the consent of both the affected states and Congress. The primary intent of this caveat was to give Eastern states that still had western land claims (there were four at that time) a veto over whether their western counties could become states. This clause has served the same function since, each time a proposal to partition an existing state or states has arisen.\n\nArticle IV, Section 3, Clause 1:\n\nBetween 1781 and 1789 the United States was governed by a unicameral Congress, the Congress of the Confederation, which operated under authority granted to it by the Articles of Confederation, the nation's first constitution. The 11th Article authorized Congress to admit new states to the Union provided nine states consented. Under the Articles, each state cast one vote on each proposed measure in Congress.\n\nDuring this period, the Confederation Congress enacted two ordinances governing the admission of new states into the Union. The first such ordinance was the Land Ordinance of 1784, enacted April 23, 1784. Thomas Jefferson was its principal author. The Ordinance called for the land (recently confirmed as part of the United States by the Treaty of Paris) west of the Appalachian Mountains, north of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River to eventually be divided into ten separate states. Once a given area reached 20,000 inhabitants, it could call a constitutional convention and form a provisional government. Then, upon enacting a state constitution which affirmed that the new state would forever be part of the Confederation, would be subject to the Articles of Confederation and acts of Congress, would be subject to payment for federal debts and would not tax federal properties within the state border or tax non-residents at a rate higher than residents, and would have a republican form of government, and also after reaching a population equal to that of the least-populated of the established states, it would be admitted, on an equal footing with all other states, based on a majority vote in Congress. Jefferson's original draft of the ordinance gave names to the proposed states, and also contained a provision that \"After the year 1800 there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of them.\"\n\nThe 1784 ordinance was superseded three years later by the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. Enacted by the Confederation Congress on July 13, 1787, it created the Northwest Territory, the first organized incorporated territory of the United States. The Northwest Ordinance (Article V) provided for the admission of several new states from within its bounds:\nConsidered one of the most important legislative acts of the Confederation Congress, it established the precedent by which the Federal government would be sovereign and expand westward with the admission of new states, rather than with the expansion of existing states and their established sovereignty under the Articles of Confederation.\n\nNo new states were formed in the Northwest Territory under either ordinance. In August, 1789, the ordinance was replaced by the Northwest Ordinance of 1789, in which the new Congress (under the present Constitution) reaffirmed the Ordinance with slight modifications. The territory itself remained in existence until 1803, when the southeastern portion of it was admitted to the Union as the State of Ohio, and the remainder was reorganized.\n\nWhile the articles of Confederation were in effect, the Congress considered various ordinances admitting particular new states into the Union, none of which were approved:\n\n\n\n\nAt the 1787 Constitutional Convention, a proposal to include the phrase, \"new States shall be admitted on the same terms with the original States\", in the \"new states\" clause was defeated. That proposal would have taken the policy articulated in the Ordinance of 1784 and made it a constitutional imperative. Many delegates objected to including the phrase however, fearing that the political power of future new western states would ultimately overwhelm that of the established eastern states.\n\nDelegates, understanding that the number of states would inevitably increase, did agree to include wording into this clause to preclude formation of a new state out of an established one without the consent of the established state as well as the Congress. It was anticipated that Kentucky (which was a part of Virginia), Franklin (which was a part of North Carolina, and later became part of the Southwest Territory), Vermont (to which New York asserted a disputed claim), and Maine (which was a part of Massachusetts), would become states. As a result of this compromise, new breakaway states are permitted to join the Union, but only with the proper consents.\n\nShortly after the new Constitution went into effect Congress admitted Vermont and Kentucky on equal terms with the existing 13 states, and thereafter formalized the condition in its acts of admission for subsequent states. Thus the Congress, utilizing the discretion allowed by the framers, adopted a policy of equal status for all newly admitted states. The constitutional principle derived from these actions is known as the equal footing doctrine. With the growth of states' rights advocacy during the antebellum period, the Supreme Court asserted, in \"Lessee of Pollard v. Hagan\" (1845), that the Constitution mandated admission of new states on the basis of equality.\n\nHistorically, most new states brought into being by Congress have been established from an organized incorporated U.S. territory, created and governed by Congress in accord with its plenary power under Article IV, Section 3, of the Constitution. In some cases, an entire territory became a state; in others some part of a territory became a state. In most cases, the organized government of a territory made known the sentiment of its population in favor of statehood, usually by referendum. Congress then directed that government to organize a constitutional convention to write a state constitution. Upon acceptance of that constitution, by the people of the territory and then by Congress, Congress would adopt a joint resolution granting statehood and the President would issue a proclamation announcing that a new state has been added to the Union. While Congress, which has ultimate authority over the admission of new states, has usually followed this procedure, there have been occasions (due to unique case-specific circumstances) where it did not.\n\nCongress is under no obligation to admit states, even in those areas whose population expresses a desire for statehood. In one instance, Mormon pioneers in Salt Lake City sought to establish the state of Deseret in 1849. It existed for slightly over two years and was never approved by the United States Congress. In another, leaders of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek, and Seminole) in Indian Territory proposed to establish the state of Sequoyah in 1905, as a means to retain control of their lands. The proposed constitution ultimately failed in the U.S. Congress. Instead, the Indian Territory was incorporated into the new state of Oklahoma in 1907.\n\nSome U.S. territories existed only a short time before becoming states, while others remained territories for decades. The shortest-lived was Alabama Territory at 2 years, while New Mexico and Hawaii territories both were in existence for more than 50 years. The entry of several states into the Union has been delayed due to complicating factors. Among them, Michigan Territory, which petitioned Congress for statehood in 1835, was not admitted to the Union until 1837, due to a boundary dispute with the adjoining state of Ohio. The Republic of Texas requested annexation to the United States in 1837, but fears about potential conflict with Mexico delayed the admission of Texas for nine years. Also, statehood for Kansas Territory was held up for several years (1854–61) due to a series of internal violent conflicts involving anti-slavery and pro-slavery factions.\n\nOnce established, most state borders have, with few exceptions, been generally stable. Notable exceptions include: the various portions (the Western land claims) of several original states ceded over a period of several years to the federal government, which in turn became the Northwest Territory, Southwest Territory, and Mississippi Territory; the 1791 cession by Maryland and Virginia of land to create the District of Columbia (Virginia's portion was returned in 1847); and the creation, on at least three separate occasions, of a new state (Kentucky, Maine and West Virginia) from a region of an existing state (Vermont was created from what was disputedly claimed to be a part of New York and was not admitted until New York consented); two large additions to Nevada, which became a state in 1864, were made in 1866 and 1867. However, there have been numerous minor adjustments to state boundaries over the years due to improved surveys, resolution of ambiguous or disputed boundary definitions, or minor mutually agreed boundary adjustments for administrative convenience or other purposes. One notable example is the case \"New Jersey v. New York\", in which New Jersey won roughly 90% of Ellis Island from New York in 1998.\n\nIn addition to the original 13, six subsequent states were never part of an organized incorporated U.S. territory. Kentucky, Maine, and West Virginia were each set off from already existing states. Texas and Vermont both entered the Union after having been sovereign states (only \"de facto\" sovereignty in Vermont's case, as the region was claimed by New York). California was set off from unorganized land ceded to the United States by Mexico in 1848 at the end of the Mexican–American War.\n\n"}
{"id": "18472634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18472634", "title": "Asian Hispanic and Latino Americans", "text": "Asian Hispanic and Latino Americans\n\nAsian Hispanic and Latino Americans are Hispanic and Latino Americans having Asian ancestry and for those Hispanics who consider themselves or were officially classified by the United States Census Bureau, Office of Management and Budget, and other U.S. government agencies as Asian Americans.\n\nHispanicity, which is independent of race, is the only ethnic category, as opposed to racial category, which is officially unified by the U.S. Census Bureau. The distinction made by government agencies for those within the population of any official race category, including \"Asian American\", is between those who report Hispanic or Latino ethnic backgrounds and all others who do not. In the case of Asian Americans, these two groups are respectively termed Asian Hispanics and non-Hispanic Asian Americans, the former being those who say Asian ancestry from Spanish-speaking Latin America, and the latter consisting of an ethnically diverse collection of all others who are classified as Asian Americans that do not report Hispanic ethnic backgrounds.\n\nIn the 2000 US Census, 119,829 Hispanic or Latino Americans identified as being of Asian race alone. In 2006, the Census Bureau's American Community Survey estimated them at 154,694, while its Population Estimates, which are official, put them at 277,704. In the 2010 Census, there were 598,146 Asian Hispanic or Latino Americans, including those who are multiracial in origin.\n\nFilipino Americans, often have Spanish surnames from the Alphabetical Catalog of Surnames, due to an 1849 decree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7704651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7704651", "title": "Bad quarto", "text": "Bad quarto\n\nA bad quarto, in Shakespearean scholarship, is a quarto-sized publication of one of Shakespeare's plays that is considered spurious, pirated from a theatre without permission by someone in the audience writing it down as it was spoken or written down later by an actor or group of actors, which, according to a theory, has been termed \"memorial reconstruction\". Since the quarto derives from performance and lacks a direct link to the author's original manuscript, the text would be expected to contain corruptions, abridgements and paraphrasings.\n\nThat is in contrast to a \"good quarto\", which is considered to be a text that is authorised, one that may have been printed from the author's manuscript, or a scribal copy or prompt copy that is based on the author's manuscript. \"Bad quartos\" are considered to include the first quartos of \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Henry V\", \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\", and \"Hamlet\".\n\nThe concept has expanded to include quartos of plays by other Elizabethan authors, including Peele's \"The Battle of Alcazar\", Greene's \"Orlando Furioso\", and the collaborative script, \"Sir Thomas More\".\n\nThe theory has been accepted, studied and expanded by many scholars, but some scholars do not accept it and those, such as Eric Sams, consider the entire theory to be without foundation. Jonathan Bate states that \"late twentieth- and early twenty-first century scholars have begun to question the whole edifice\".\n\nThe concept of the \"bad quarto\" as a category of text was created by bibliographer Alfred W. Pollard in his book \"Shakespeare Folios and Quartos\" (1909). The idea came to him in his reading of the address by the editors, John Heminges and Henry Condell, which appears at the beginning of Shakespeare's First Folio and is titled, \"To the Great Variety of Readers\". Heminges and Condell refer to \"diuerse stolne, and surreptitious copies\" of the plays. It had been thought that that reference was generally to quarto editions of the plays.\n\nPollard, however, claims that Heminges and Condell meant to refer only to \"bad\" quartos, and Pollard lists as \"bad\" the first quartos of \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1597), \"Henry V\" (1600), \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" (1602), \"Hamlet\" (1603), and \"Pericles\" (1609). Pollard pointed out that not only the texts contained \"badness\" but also there was badness in those who pirated the plays.\n\nScholar W. W. Greg worked closely with Pollard and published the bad quarto of \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\", which is a work that is significant in the history of the \"bad quarto\" theory. Greg described how the text may have been copied, and he identified the actor who played the role of \"Host\" as the culprit. Greg called the process that the actor may have used \"memorial reconstruction\", a phrase later used by other scholars.\n\nFor Shakespeare, the First Folio of 1623 is the crucial document; of the 36 plays contained in that collection, 18 have no other source. The other 18 plays had been printed in quarto form at least once between 1594 and 1623, but since the prefatory matter in the First Folio itself warns against earlier texts, which are termed \"stol'n and surreptitious copies, maimed and deformed by frauds and stealths of injurious impostors\", 18th- and 19th-century editors of Shakespeare tended to ignore the quarto texts and preferred the Folio.\n\nIt was at first suspected that the bad quarto texts represented shorthand reporting, a practice mentioned by Thomas Heywood in the Prologue to his 1605 play \"If You Know Not Me, You Know Nobody\"; reporters would surreptitiously take down a play's text in shorthand during a performance and pirate a popular play for a competing interest. Greg and R. C. Rhodes argued instead for an alternative theory: since some of the minor speeches varied less than those of major characters, their hypothesis was that the actors who played the minor roles had reconstructed the play texts from memory and gave an accurate report of the parts that they themselves had memorized and played but a less correct report of the other actors' parts.\n\nThe idea caught on among Shakespeare scholars. Peter Alexander added \"The First Part of the Contention Betwixt the Two Famous Houses of York and Lancaster\" (1594) and \"The True Tragedy of Richard Duke of York\" (1595), the earliest versions of \"Henry VI, Part 2\" and \"Henry VI, Part 3,\" to the roster of bad quartos; they had been previously thought to be source plays for Shakespeare's later versions of the same stories. The concept of the bad quarto was extended to play texts by authors other than Shakespeare, and by the second half of the 20th century, the idea was widely being used. However, by the end of the century, dissenting views had been published, such as the work of Laurie Maguire, then at the University of Ottawa.\n\nSome problems exist with the bad quarto hypothesis. The first quarto of \"Richard III\" is considered a bad quarto \"even though it is an unusually 'good' bad quarto\". Alexander himself recognised that the idea of memorial reconstruction did not apply perfectly to the two plays that he studied, which possessed problematical features that could not be explained. He maintained that the quartos of the two early histories were \"partial\" memorial reconstructions.\n\nSome critics, including Eric Sams and Hardin Craig, dispute the entire concept of memorial reconstruction by pointing out that unlike shorthand reporting, no reliable historical evidence exists that actors reconstructed plays from memory. They believe that memorial reconstruction is a modern fiction. Individual scholars have sometimes preferred alternative explanations for variant texts such as revision. Steven Urkowitz has argued the hypothesis that \"King Lear\" is a revised work in \"Shakespeare's Revision of \"King Lear\"\". Some scholars have argued that the more challenging plays of the Shakespearean canon, like \"All's Well That Ends Well\" and \"Troilus and Cressida\", make sense as works that Shakespeare wrote at one time and later revised.\n\nSteven Roy Miller considers a revision hypothesis in preference to a bad-quarto hypothesis for \"The Taming of a Shrew\", the alternative version of Shakespeare's \"The Taming of the Shrew.\"\n\nRobert Burkhart's 1975 study \"Shakespeare's Bad Quartos: Deliberate Abridgements Designed for Performance by a Reduced Cast\" provides another alternative to the hypothesis of bad quartos as memorial reconstruction. Other studies have questioned the \"orthodox view\" on bad quartos, as in David Farley-Hills's work on \"Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nIn 1996, Laurie Maguire of the Department of English at the University of Ottawa published a study of the concept of memorial reconstruction, based on the analysis of errors made by actors taking part in the BBC TV Shakespeare series, broadcast in the early 1980s. She found that actors typically add, drop or invert single words. However, the larger-scale errors that would be expected if actors were attempting to piece together the plays some time after their performance failed to appear in all but a few of the bad quartos. The study, however, uncovered some circumstantial evidence for memorial reconstruction in the bad quartos of \"Hamlet\", \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" and \"Pericles\". According to Maguire, virtually all the bad quartos appear to be accurate renditions of original texts that \"merit our attention as valid texts in their own right\".\n\nThough the bad quarto concept originated in reference to Shakespearean texts, scholars have also applied it to non-Shakespearean play texts of the English Renaissance era. In 1938, Leo Kirschbaum published \"A Census of Bad Quartos\" and included 20 play texts. Maguire's 1996 study examined 41 Shakespearean and non-Shakespearean editions that have been categorised as bad quartos, including the first editions of \"Arden of Feversham\", \"The Merry Devil of Edmonton\", and \"Fair Em\", plays of the Shakespeare Apocrypha, plus George Chapman's \"The Blind Beggar of Alexandria\", Christopher Marlowe's \"Doctor Faustus\" and \"The Massacre at Paris\", \"Part 1\" of Heywood's \"If You Know Not Me, You Know Nobody\" and Beaumont and Fletcher's \"The Maid's Tragedy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32550736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32550736", "title": "Baha'i Studies Review", "text": "Baha'i Studies Review\n\nBaha'i Studies Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers contemporary issues regarding the principles, history, and philosophy of the Bahá'í Faith. The journal is published by Intellect on behalf of the Association for Bahá'í Studies.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "52769541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52769541", "title": "Bibliography of George H. W. Bush", "text": "Bibliography of George H. W. Bush\n\nThis is a list of books by or about George H. W. Bush.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523280", "title": "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee", "text": "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\n\nBury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West is a 1970 book by American writer Dee Brown that covers the history of Native Americans in the American West in the late nineteenth century. The book expresses details of the history of American expansionism from a point of view that is critical of its effects on the Native Americans. Brown describes Native Americans' displacement through forced relocations and years of warfare waged by the United States federal government. The government's dealings are portrayed as a continuing effort to destroy the culture, religion, and way of life of Native American peoples. Helen Hunt Jackson's \"A Century of Dishonor\" is often considered a nineteenth-century precursor to Dee Brown's writing.\n\nBefore the publication of \"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee,\" Dee Brown had become well versed in the history of the American frontier. Having grown up in Arkansas, he developed a keen interest in the American West, and during his graduate education at George Washington University and his career as a librarian for both the US Department of Agriculture and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, he wrote numerous books on the subject. Brown's works maintained a focus on the American West, but ranged anywhere from western fiction to histories to even children's books. Many of Brown's books revolved around similar Native American topics, including his \"Showdown at Little Bighorn\" (1964) and \"The Fetterman Massacre\" (1974).\n\n\"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\" was first published in 1970 to generally strong reviews. Published at a time of increasing American Indian activism, the book has never gone out of print and has been translated into 17 languages. The title is taken from the final phrase of a twentieth-century poem titled \"American Names\" by Stephen Vincent Benet. The full quotation – \"I shall not be there. I shall rise and pass. Bury my heart at Wounded Knee.\" – appears at the beginning of Brown's book. Although Benet's poem is not about the plight of Native Americans, Wounded Knee was the location of the last major confrontation between the US Army and Native Americans. It is also the vicinity of where Crazy Horse's parents buried his heart and some of his bones after his murder in 1877.\n\nIn the first chapter, Brown presents a brief history of the discovery and settlement of America, from 1492 to the Indian turmoil that began in 1860. He stresses the initially gentle and peaceable behavior of Indians toward Europeans, especially given their apparent lack of resistance to early colonial efforts at Europeanization. It was not until the further influx of European settlers, gradual encroachment, and eventual seizure of American lands by the \"white man\" that the Native people were shown to exhibit forms of major resistance.\n\nBrown completes his initial overview by briefly describing incidents up to 1860 that involve American encroachment and Indian removal, beginning with the defeat of the Wampanoags and Narragansetts, Iroquois, and Cherokee Nations, as well as the establishment of the West as the \"permanent Indian frontier\" and the ultimate breaches of the frontier as a means to achieve Manifest Destiny.\n\nIn each of the following chapters, Brown provides an in-depth description of a significant post-1860 event in American Western expansion or Native American eradication, focusing in turn on the specific tribe or tribes involved in the event. In his narrative, Brown primarily discusses such tribes as the Navajo Nation, Santee Dakota, Hunkpapa Lakota, Oglala Lakota, Cheyenne, and Apache people. He touches more lightly upon the subjects of the Arapaho, Modoc, Kiowa, Comanche, Nez Perce, Ponca, Ute, and Minneconjou Lakota tribes.\n\nBrown discusses the plights of Manuelito and the Navajo people in New Mexico, who make treaties and other efforts to maintain peace with Euro-Americans despite their encroachment upon Navajo land, stealing livestock and burning entire villages as punishment for perceived misbehavior. The second, third and fourth generation European immigrants occupy land in Navajo country not only to build their own forts, the first of which was Fort Defiance, but also claim rights to the surrounding prized Navajo lands as pasture for their livestock. Various disputes occur between the Navajo and the Euro-Americans, culminating in a horse race between Manuelito and a US Army lieutenant who wins as a result of dishonesty and trickery. The consequence is a massacre of Navajo bystanders.\n\nThe US Army General James Carleton orders the Navajos to relocate to a reservation at Bosque Redondo, where the Apaches had recently been moved, but is met with resistance. Employing a scorched-earth campaign, Kit Carson and Carleton force a large majority of resistant Navajos and Apaches to surrender and flee to the reservation. Manuelito and a few other Navajo leaders refuse to surrender but finally agree to relocate to the Bosque in 1866 \"for the sake of the women and children\", signing a peace treaty on June 1, 1868.\n\nThe narrative of the Sioux begins with Brown's discussion of the Santee Dakota tribe. Following a poor harvest and lack of promised support from the US government in the early 1860s, members of the tribe became angry at white people. After the murder of several white men and women by young Dakota, the frustrated Santee tribe, led by Chief Little Crow, attacked Fort Ridgely and a nearby town. When the Santees refuse to surrender their white hostages to Colonel Sibley, they are forced into battle again at Yellow Medicine River. The Santees lose and over three dozen Santee warriors are executed in December 1862. Santee chiefs, including Chief Little Crow, were killed during the following six months, and the remaining Santees are removed to a Missouri River and Crow Creek reservation.\n\nBrown's discussion of the Oglala Lakota begins with the US Army's 1865 invasion of the Powder River country in Montana. The army is confronted with opposition from the local Lakota and Cheyenne tribes. This and other skirmishes result in heated conflict between the US Army and the Oglala Lakotas led by Chiefs Red Cloud and Roman Nose, forcing the US Army to retreat for the winter. The high death toll among US troops fostered great confidence in the Native Americans who began a journey to the Black Hills.\n\nBy the US Army's request, the Sioux chiefs and approximately 2000 other warriors arrived at Fort Laramie in May 1866 for treaty talks. The tribes quickly learned of the army's intent to build roads and railroads through Sioux land. As construction progresses, the Sioux plan an attack on the white men and harass white traffic through the Powder River country. Red Cloud unknowingly leads approximately 3,000 Lakota into an ambush, later called the Fetterman Massacre, at Peno Creek where 81 white men and 200 Lakotas are killed. Conflict continues between the US Army and the Lakota for years despite peace commissioners being sent to Powder River to address differences. In 1868 the US Army retreats upon the signing of the peace treaty with Red Cloud.\n\nIn 1869 Red Cloud is invited to Washington D.C. to speak with Donehogawa, a member of the Iroquois tribe who is serving as the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in the US government. Chief Red Cloud and his tribe members express their discontent with the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie which defined their reservation land as bordered by the Missouri River rather than the Powder River. Commissioner Donehogawa corrected this mistake by declaring the Powder River country as reserved for Lakota hunting grounds. Donehogawa's agency was later accused of being like a \"savage Indian\" and the agency was unable to purchase supplies for the reservations. Donehogawa was subsequently forced to resign his commission.\n\nIn 1874, when rumors of gold in the Black Hills were delivered by Custer and his men to the white settlers on the plains, miners and panhandlers flooded the Black Hills, angering the Lakota and Dakota living there. A peace council in 1875 tried to arrange for the US government to either purchase the mineral rights or outright ownership of the Black Hills, but both proposals were rejected by the Sioux. In 1876, a series of battles occur between the Sioux and US troops which initially ends when the Sioux defeat General Custer and his troops at the Battle of Little Bighorn on June 25. The humiliated US Army sends a peace council to sign a treaty that forces the Sioux out of the Black Hills to the Missouri River. The troops follow this treaty with numerous attacks on Lakota villages.\n\nFollowing the removal of the Lakota from the Black Hills to the Missouri River Reservation, Sitting Bull, in exile in Canada and participating in unsuccessful peace talks, returns to American soil and surrenders at Fort Buford. He is removed to the Hunkpapa reservation at Standing Rock; he subsequently joins Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show. The Lakota were ultimately forced to sign a treaty in 1890 that further divided and limited their reservation.\n\nSitting Bull is later arrested in an attempt by US authorities to suppress Sitting Bull's endorsement of the Ghost Dance which they considered a religious disturbance. The two Native American policemen sent to arrest Sitting Bull killed him. Following the death of Sitting Bull, a conflict arose that resulted in the Hunkpapas and Minneconjous tribes fleeing Standing Rock. Deciding against further resistance, the tribes join Red Cloud at Pine Ridge where they encounter Major Whitside in late December 1890. The tribes are subsequently directed to Wounded Knee, where a member of the Minneconjou tribe called Black Coyote refuses to surrender his rifle. The US Army reacts with violence which results in the deaths of 150–350 Native Americans and 25–31 US Army soldiers. The Lakota that survived the assault fled to Pine Ridge, and returned to Wounded Knee the next day only to bury their families and comrades.\n\nThe 1858 Pikes Peak gold rush in Colorado creates a swarm of white settlers onto Cheyenne and Arapaho lands and instigates treaty talks that result in removal of Cheyenne and Arapaho territory to any area between Sand Creek and the Arkansas River. When the Civil War brings the US Army into Cheyenne and Arapaho territory, the resulting conflict endorses the murder of \"hostile Indians\". The Cheyenne tribe responds with numerous strikes on the army outposts.\n\nIn early 1866, the Southern Cheyenne Dog Soldiers are asked to sign the treaty that would relocate them to the south with Black Kettle and his tribe. When they refuse, Roman Nose organizes an attack which is thwarted by the coming of winter. In the following year a peace council is held between the General Hancock's army and the Cheyenne which ends when Hancock's army burns the Cheyenne camp to force their cooperation. After a series of retaliatory assaults, a treaty is signed by the Cheyenne, Arapaho, Kiowa, and Comanche tribes which relocates them to the reservation south of Arkansas River. Roman Nose doesn't sign the treaty. Instead he leads his Dog Soldiers on more war parties and is eventually killed. Generals Custer and Sheridan burn Black Kettle's village and the remaining band of Dog Soldiers are killed.\n\nAfter the surrender and removal, the Northern Cheyenne tribe led by Little Wolf and Dull Knife are unable to sustain themselves on the poor land at Fort Reno, and they form a hunting party to hunt buffalo north of their reservation. Their hunt was unsuccessful, and the tribe continues to suffer severe losses due to health problems from malnutrition and a measles epidemic. Chiefs Little Wolf and Dull Knife decide to move north but this leads to more violent encounters with the US Army. The tribes are reduced to nearly 10% of their earlier population. Dull Knife and his tribe try to join Red Cloud, and they defy orders to return to their southern, buffalo-depleted reservation. Battles ensue, and Dull Knife's tribe is pursued north until the majority of the tribe are killed. The survivors take refuge at Red Cloud's reservation.\n\nThe friendly relations between the Apaches and Euro-Americans, that were once signified by the Apaches allowing white travelers to pass through their land unmolested, began to diminish when Apache Chief Cochise was imprisoned for allegedly stealing cattle and kidnapping a white boy from a settler's farm. When Cochise escaped, he and his warriors killed three white men, and the army responded by hanging male members of Cochise's family. Cochise spent the next two years leading attacks on the Euro-Americans. In 1865, after Cochise refuses a treaty designed to relocate his Chiricahua tribe to a reservation, the Apaches successfully avoid contact with white men for a number of years. But in 1871, a group of settlers, Mexicans, and warriors from competing tribes massacre an Apache village, and Cochise and his followers retreat into the mountains. They stay there until the chief agrees to move the Apache to a reservation in the Chiricahua Mountains in Arizona. He dies soon thereafter in 1874.\n\nThe Apache nation was divided after Cochise's death, and they soon become infamous for raiding white villages. The Chiricahua Apaches, avoiding attempts to relocate to a reservation, flee into Mexico. Victorio and his Warm Springs Apaches are removed to the San Carlos agency in southeastern Arizona in 1877. The entire tribe is eventually killed, to stop their raids on white settlers. Geronimo and his tribe leave their reservation only to return heavily armed and determined to free their fellow Apaches. This results in the stationing of Apache guerillas in Mexico. Negotiations with Geronimo and the guerillas continue over the next few years as alleged stories of the guerillas’ brutalities and atrocities circulate. In 1886, Geronimo flees once again before being incarcerated and transported to a reservation in Florida with the remaining Chiricahua Apaches.\n\nCaptain Jack, the Chief of the Modoc tribe located in Northern California, is described as a Native American friendly to the \"white people\" who settled in his country. As larger numbers of settlers trespass onto Modoc land and small disputes arise between the Modocs and white settlers, the US government coerces a treaty, over Captain Jack's reluctance, that will relocate the Modocs to a reservation in Oregon and shared with the Klamaths. Conflicts between the two tribes quickly begin, and the Modocs return south to California. Their return is halted by a skirmish between the tribe and an army battalion in 1872, and the Modocs divert to the California lava beds. Another group of Modocs, led by Hooker Jim, murdered 12 white settlers and forced Captain Jack to lead his tribe into a battle against the US Army. A peace commission led by General Canby, conducts peace talks with Captain Jack who eventually, under pressure from Hooker Jim's Modocs, agrees to kill Canby should the original Modoc land not be returned to the tribe. As feared, Canby refuses to return the land to the Modocs, and he is killed by Captain Jack. Hooker Jim betrays Captain Jack to the army, and he is hanged on October 3, 1873.\n\nAfter the Battle of Washita in 1868, General Sheridan ordered all tribes involved to surrender at Fort Cobb; the Kiowa tribe refused. The Kiowa chiefs are arrested and both the Kiowa and Comanche people are forced onto the Fort Cobb reservation. The Kiowas and Comanches, led by Satanta and Big Tree, decide to attack the white men, and they kill 7 teamsters. This results in the arrest and imprisonment of both chiefs. Lone Wolf, another Kiowa Chief, arranges for the release of White Bear and Big Tree so they can attend the peace talks at Fort Sill. In early 1874, while on parole, White Bear and Big Tree lead the Kiowa and Comanche tribes on an attack against white settlers in order to preserve the buffalo. When both tribes flee their reservations, they are hunted down by the US Army. Upon their surrender in early 1875, they are exiled in Florida.\n\nDespite maintaining peaceful relations with whites, the Nez Perces are forced to sign a treaty in 1863 which removes them to a small reservation in Idaho. Chief Joseph and his tribe designated this agreement as the \"thief treaty\". Being highly offended by the treaty terms, and the sudden influx of gold miners and cattle farmers onto Nez Perce land, the tribe refused to move to the Lapwai Reservation, choosing instead to fight the US Army at White Bird Canyon in June 1877. After winning that battle, the tribe fled to Montana, trying to join Sitting Bull in Canada, but then they lost the battle at the Bear Paw Mountains in August and were forced to surrender. Some members of the tribe managed to find refuge in Canada, but those that surrendered were split between the Lapwai reservation and the Colville reservation in Washington.\n\nDespite having previously signed treaties guaranteeing their ownership of the land on the Niobrara River, the Ponca land was taken from via a subsequent US treaty and given to the Lakota, Dakota, and Nakota tribes just before they were added to a list of tribes to be exiled to Indian Territory following Custer's defeat. Ponca Chief Standing Bear was arrested along with other chiefs for refusing to leave voluntarily. The Ponca tribe was forced onto the Quapaw reservation, where over one quarter of their population died. Standing Bear returned to the Niobrara and takes his case to a white man's court in 1879 arguing that he is a person protected by the US Constitution. Standing Bear won his case but is informed by General Sherman that the case is specific to him and does not maintain validity for the other Poncas, who were forced to remain in Indian Territory.\n\nThe Utes are a Colorado tribe whose land was gradually overrun by mineral and gold miners. Chief Ouray signed a treaty in 1863 allowing settlers to mine Ute land and relinquishing all mineral rights. He signed another treaty in 1868 that allotted 16 million acres of forests and meadows in the Rockies as a personal reservation that prohibited white trespass. When disputes arose, Nathan Meeker attempted to assimilate the Utes into Euro-American culture, but William Vickers opposed the idea and started \"The Utes Must Go!\" campaign in 1879. Vickers called on the US cavalry to prevent an uprising by the Utes. The Utes responded by killing all the white men at the White River Indian agency. In 1881, as a result of outrage over the White River Massacre, the Utes were removed to a marginal reservation in Utah.\n\n\"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\" was published less than three years following the establishment of AIM, the American Indian Movement, formed in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1968. AIM moved to promote modern Native American issues and to unite America's dividing Native American population, similar to the Civil Rights and Environmental Movements that gained support at that time. The publication of Brown's book came at the height of the American Indian Movement's activism. In 1969, in AIM occupied Alcatraz Island for 19 months in hopes of reclaiming Native American land after the San Francisco Indian Center burned down. In 1973, less than three years after the book's release, AIM and local Oglala and neighboring Sicangu Lakota took part in a 71-day occupation at Wounded Knee in protest of the government of Richard Wilson, the chairman of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, which resulted in the death of two Indians and injury of the US Marshal. The resulting 1974 trial ended in the dismissal of all charges due to the uncovering of various incidents of government misconduct.\n\nAt the time of the publication of Brown's book, the United States was engaged in the Vietnam War. The actions of the United States Army in Vietnam were frequently criticized in the media and critics of Brown's narrative often drew comparisons between its contents and what was seen in the media. The primary comparison made was the similarity between the massacre and atrocities against Native Americans in the late nineteenth century as portrayed by Dee Brown's book and the 1968 massacre of hundreds of civilians in Southern Vietnam at My Lai for which twenty-five US Army members were indicted. Native American author N. Scott Momaday, in his review of the narrative, agreed with the viability of the comparison, stating \"Having read Mr. Brown, one has a better understanding of what it is that nags at the American conscience at times (to our everlasting credit) and of that morality which informs and fuses events so far apart in time and space as the massacres at Wounded Knee and My Lai.\" Thirty years later, in the foreword of a modern printing of the book by Hampton Sides, it is argued that My Lai had a powerful impact on the success of Brown's narrative, as \"\"Bury My Heart\" landed on America's doorstep in the anguished midst of the Vietnam War, shortly after revelations of the My Lai massacre had plunged the nation into gnawing self-doubt. Here was a book filled with a hundred My Lais, a book that explored the dark roots of American arrogance while dealing a near-deathblow to our fondest folk myth.\"\n\n\"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\" received ultimately positive reviews upon its publication. \"TIME\" magazine reviewed the book saying: \"In the last decade or so, after almost a century of saloon art and horse operas that romanticized Indian fighters and white settlers, Americans have been developing a reasonably acute sense of the injustices and humiliations suffered by the Indians. But the details of how the West was won are not really part of the American consciousness ... Dee Brown, Western historian and head librarian at the University of Illinois, now attempts to balance the account. With the zeal of an IRS investigator, he audits US history's forgotten set of books. Compiled from old but rarely exploited sources plus a fresh look at dusty Government documents, \"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\" tallies the broken promises and treaties, the provocations, massacres, discriminatory policies and condescending diplomacy.\" The Pulitzer-Prize winning Native American author N. Scott Momaday noted the book contains strong documentation of original sources, such as council records and firsthand descriptions. Stating that \"it is, in fact, extraordinary on several accounts,\" he further compliments Brown's writing by saying that \"the book is a story, whole narrative of singular integrity and precise continuity; that is what makes the book so hard to put aside, even when one has come to the end.\"\n\nPeter Farb reviewed the book in 1971, in the \"New York Review of Books\", writing \"The Indian wars were shown to be the dirty murders they were.\" Other critics could not believe that the book was not written by a Native American and that Dee Brown was a white man, as the book's Native perspective felt so real. Remaining on bestseller lists for over a year following its release in hardback, the book remains in print 40 years later. Translated into at least 17 languages, it has sold nearly four million copies and remains popular today.\n\nDespite the book's widespread acceptance by journalists and the general public, scholars such as Francis Paul Prucha criticized it for lacking sources for much of the material, except for direct quotations; he said that content was selected to present a particular point of view, rather than to be balanced, and that the narrative of government-Indian relations suffered from not being placed within the perspective of what else was occurring within the government and the country at the time.\n\nBrown was candid about his intention to present the history of the settlement of the West from the point of view of the Indians - \"its victims,\" as he wrote. He noted, \"Americans who have always looked westward when reading about this period should read this book facing eastward.\"\n\nHBO Films produced a made-for-television film adaptation by the same title of the Brown's book for the HBO television network. The film stars Adam Beach, Aidan Quinn, Anna Paquin, and August Schellenberg with a cameo appearance by actor and former US Senator Fred Thompson as President Grant. It debuted on the HBO television network Sunday, May 27, 2007 and covers roughly the last two chapters of Brown's book, focusing on the narrative of the Lakota tribes leading up to the death of Sitting Bull and the Massacre at Wounded Knee. The film received 17 Primetime Emmy nominations and went on to win six awards, including the category of Outstanding Made For Television Movie. It also garnered nominations for three Golden Globe Awards, two Satellite Awards, and one Screen Actors Guild Award.\n\nBestselling author of \"Lincoln's Last Days,\" Dwight Jon Zimmerman adapted Brown's book for children in his work entitled \"The Saga of the Sioux.\" The narrative deals solely with the Sioux tribe as the representatives of the story told in \"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee,\" written from the perspective of the Sioux chiefs and warriors from 1860 to the events at the Massacre at Wounded Knee. The book includes copious photographs, illustrations, and maps in support of the narrative and to appeal to its middle school demographic.\n\n"}
{"id": "48193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48193", "title": "Camera obscura", "text": "Camera obscura\n\nCamera obscura (plural \"camera obscura\" or \"camera obscuras\"; from Latin, meaning \"dark room\": \"camera\" \"(vaulted) chamber or room,\" and \"obscura\" \"darkened, dark\"), also referred to as pinhole image, is the natural optical phenomenon that occurs when an image of a scene at the other side of a screen (or for instance a wall) is projected through a small hole in that screen as a reversed and inverted image (left to right and upside down) on a surface opposite to the opening. The surroundings of the projected image have to be relatively dark for the image to be clear, so many historical camera obscura experiments were performed in dark rooms.\n\nThe term \"camera obscura\" also refers to constructions or devices that make use of the principle within a box, tent or room. Camerae obscurae with a lens in the opening have been used since the second half of the 16th century and became popular as an aid for drawing and painting. The camera obscura box was developed further into the photographic camera in the first half of the 19th century when camera obscura boxes were used to expose light-sensitive materials to the projected image.\n\nThe camera obscura was used as a means to study eclipses, without the risk of damaging the eyes by looking into the sun directly. As a drawing aid, the camera obscura allowed tracing the projected image to produce a highly accurate representation, especially appreciated as an easy way to achieve a proper graphical perspective.\n\nBefore the term \"camera obscura\" was first used in 1604, many other expressions were used including \"cubiculum obscurum\", \"cubiculum tenebricosum\", \"conclave obscurum\" and \"locus obscurus\".\n\nA camera obscura device without a lens but with a very small hole is sometimes referred to as a \"pinhole camera\", although this more often refers to simple (home-made) lens-less cameras in which photographic film or photographic paper is used.\n\nRays of light travel in straight lines and change when they are reflected and partly absorbed by an object, retaining information about the color and brightness of the surface of that object. Lit objects reflect rays of light in all directions. A small enough opening in a screen only lets through rays that travel directly from different points in the scene on the other side and these rays form an image of that scene when they are collected on a surface opposite the opening. In simple, the way your retina sees a specific image through your eye is vertically switched to the object you see and how pieces in your brain are shown to switch that object right-side up to the way you see normally\n\nThe human eye (as well as those of other animals including birds, fish reptiles etc.) works much like a camera obscura with an opening (pupil), a biconvex lens and a surface where the image is formed (retina).\n\nA camera obscura device consists of a box, tent or room with a small hole in one side. Light from an external scene passes through the hole and strikes a surface inside, where the scene is reproduced, inverted (thus upside-down) and reversed (left to right), but with color and perspective preserved. \n\nIn order to produce a reasonably clear projected image, the aperture has to be about 1/100th the distance to the screen, or less.\n\nAs the pinhole is made smaller, the image gets sharper, but the projected image becomes dimmer. With too small a pinhole, however, the sharpness worsens, due to diffraction.\n\nMany camerae obscurae use a lens rather than a pinhole (as in a pinhole camera) because it allows a larger aperture, giving a usable brightness while maintaining focus.\n\nIf the image is caught on a semi-transparent screen, it can be viewed from the back so that it is no longer reversed (but still upside-down).\n\nUsing mirrors it is possible to project a right-side-up image. The projection can also be diverted onto a horizontal surface (e.g. a table). The 18th-century overhead version in tents used mirrors inside a kind of periscope on the top of the tent . \n\nThe box-type camera obscura often has an angled mirror projecting an upright image onto tracing paper placed on the glass top. Although the image is viewed from the back, it is now reversed by the mirror.\n\nThere are theories that occurrences of camera obscura effects (through tiny holes in tents or in screens of animal hide) inspired paleolithic cave paintings. Distortions in the shapes of animals in many paleolithic cave artworks might be inspired by distortions seen when the surface on which an image was projected was not straight or not in the right angle.\nIt is also suggested that camera obscura projections could have played a role in Neolithic structures.\nPerforated gnomons projecting a pinhole image of the sun were described in the Chinese Zhoubi Suanjing writings (1046 BCE—256 BCE with material added until circa 220 CE). The location of the bright circle can be measured to tell the time of day and year. In Arab and European cultures its invention was much later attributed to Egyptian astronomer and mathematician Ibn Yunus around 1000 CE.\n\nSome ancient sightings of gods and spirits, especially in temple worship, are thought to possibly have been conjured up by means of camera obscura projections.\n\nThe earliest known written record of the camera obscura is to be found in Chinese writings called Mozi and dated to the 4th century BCE, traditionally ascribed to and named for Mozi (circa 470 BCE-circa 391 BCE), a Han Chinese philosopher and the founder of Mohist School of Logic. In these writings it is explained how the inverted image in a \"collecting-point\" or \"treasure house\" is inverted by an intersecting point (a pinhole) that collected the (rays of) light. Light coming from the foot of an illuminated person would partly be hidden below (strike below the pinhole) and partly form the top part of the image. Rays from the head would partly be hidden above (strike above the pinhole) and partly form the lower part of the image. This is a remarkably early correct description of the camera obscura; there are no other examples known that are dated before the 11th century.\n\nThe Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 BCE), or possibly a follower of his ideas, touched upon the subject in the work \"Problems - Book XV\", asking: and further on: \n\nMany philosophers and scientists of the Western world would ponder this question before it became accepted that the circular and crescent-shapes described in this \"problem\" were actually pinhole image projections of the sun. Although a projected image will have the shape of the aperture when the light source, aperture and projection plane are close together, the projected image will have the shape of the light source when they are further apart.\n\nEuclid is sometimes reported to have mentioned the camera obscura phenomenon as a demonstration that light travels in straight lines in his very influential \"Optics\" (circa 300 BCE). However, in common translations no remarks of anything that resembles camera obscura can be found. Claims could be based on later versions, since Ignazio Danti added a description of camera obscura in his 1573 annotated translation.\n\nIn the 4th century, Greek scholar Theon of Alexandria observed that \"candlelight passing through a pinhole will create an illuminated spot on a screen that is directly in line with the aperture and the center of the candle.\"\n\nIn the 6th century, the Byzantine-Greek mathematician and architect Anthemius of Tralles (most famous as co-architect of the Hagia Sophia), experimented with effects related to the camera obscura. Anthemius had a sophisticated understanding of the involved optics, as demonstrated by a light-ray diagram he constructed in 555 CE.\n\nIn the 9th century, Al-Kindi (Alkindus) demonstrated that \"light from the right side of the flame will pass through the aperture and end up on the left side of the screen, while light from the left side of the flame will pass through the aperture and end up on the right side of the screen.\"\n\nIn the 10th century Yu Chao-Lung supposedly projected images of pagoda models through a small hole onto a screen to study directions and divergence of rays of light.\n\nArab physicist Ibn al-Haytham (known in the West by the Latinised Alhazen) (965–1039) explained in his Book of Optics (circa 1027) that rays of light travel in straight lines and are distinguished by the body that reflected the rays and then wrote:\nHe described a 'dark chamber' and did a number of trials of experiments with small pinholes and light passing through them. This experiment consisted of three candles in a row and seeing the effects on the wall after placing a cutout between the candles and the wall. \n\nAl-Haytham also analyzed the rays of sunlight and concluded that they make a conic shape where they meet at the hole, forming another conic shape reverse to the first one from the hole to the opposite wall in the dark room. Ibn al-Haytham is reported to have stated about the camera obscura: \"We did not invent this\". al-Haytam's writings on optics became very influential in Europe through Latin translations since circa 1200. Among those he inspired were Witelo, John Peckham, Roger Bacon, Leonardo Da Vinci, René Descartes and Johannes Kepler.\n\nIn his 1088 book \"Dream Pool Essays\" the Song Dynasty Chinese scientist Shen Kuo (1031–1095) compared the focal point of a concave burning-mirror and the \"collecting\" hole of camera obscura phenomena to an oar in a rowlock to explain how the images were inverted:\nShen Kuo also responded to a statement of Duan Chengshi in \"Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang\" written in about 840 that the inverted image of a Chinese pagoda tower beside a seashore, was inverted because it was reflected by the sea: \"This is nonsense. It is a normal principle that the image is inverted after passing through the small hole.\"\n\nEnglish statesman and scholastic philosopher Robert Grosseteste (c. 1175 – 9 October 1253) commented on the camera obscura.\nEnglish philosopher and Franciscan friar Roger Bacon (c. 1219/20 – c. 1292) falsely stated in his \"De Multiplicatione Specerium\" (1267) that an image projected through a square aperture was round because light would travel in spherical waves and therefore assumed its natural shape after passing through a hole. He is also credited with a manuscript that advised to study solar eclipses safely by observing the rays passing through some round hole and studying the spot of light they form on a surface. \n\nA picture of a three-tiered camera obscura (see illustration) has been attributed to Bacon, but the source for this attribution is not given. A very similar picture is found in Athanasius Kircher's \"Ars Magna Lucis et Umbrae\" (1646).\n\nPolish friar, theologian, physicist, mathematician and natural philosopher Erazmus Ciołek Witelo (also known as Vitello Thuringopolonis and by many different spellings of the name \"Witelo\") wrote about the camera obscura in his very influential treatise \"Perspectiva\" (circa 1270-1278), which was largely based on Ibn al-Haytham's work.\n\nEnglish archbishop and scholar John Peckham (circa 1230 – 1292) wrote about the camera obscura in his \"Tractatus de Perspectiva\" (circa 1269-1277) and \"Perspectiva communis\" (circa 1277-79), falsely arguing that light gradually forms the circular shape after passing through the aperture. His writings were influenced by Roger Bacon.\n\nAt the end of the 13th century, Arnaldus de Villa Nova is credited with using a camera obscura to project live performances for entertainment.\n\nFrench astronomer Guillaume de Saint-Cloud suggested in his 1292 work \"Almanach Planetarum\" that the eccentricity of the sun could be determined with the camera obscura from the inverse proportion between the distances and the apparent solar diameters at apogee and perigee.\n\nKamāl al-Dīn al-Fārisī (1267–1319) described in his 1309 work \"Kitab Tanqih al-Manazir\" (\"The Revision of the Optics\") how he experimented with a glass sphere filled with water in a camera obscura with a controlled aperture and found that the colors of the rainbow are phenomena of the decomposition of light.\n\nFrench Jewish philosopher, mathematician, physicist and astronomer/astrologer Levi ben Gershon (1288–1344) (also known as Gersonides or Leo de Balneolis) made several astronomical observations using a camera obscura with a Jacob's staff, describing methods to measure the angular diameters of the sun, the moon and the bright planets Venus and Jupiter. He determined the eccentricity of the sun based on his observations of the summer and winter solstices in 1334. Levi also noted how the size of the aperture determined the size of the projected image. He wrote about his findings in Hebrew in his treatise \"Sefer Milhamot Ha-Shem\" (\"The Wars of the Lord\") Book V Chapters 5 and 9.\n\nItalian polymath Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519), familiar with the work of Alhazen in Latin translation and after an extensive study of optics and human vision, wrote the oldest known clear description of the camera obscura in mirror writing in a notebook in 1502, later published in the collection \"Codex Atlanticus\" (translated from Latin):\n\nThese descriptions, however, would remain unknown until Venturi deciphered and published them in 1797.\n\nDa Vinci was clearly very interested in the camera obscura: over the years he drew circa 270 diagrams of the camera obscura in his notebooks . He systematically experimented with various shapes and sizes of apertures and with multiple apertures (1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 16, 24, 28 and 32). He compared the working of the eye to that of the camera obscura and seemed especially interested in its capability of demonstrating basic principles of optics: the inversion of images through the pinhole or pupil, the non-interference of images and the fact that images are \"all in all and all in every part\".\nThe oldest known published drawing of a camera obscura is found in Dutch physician, mathematician and instrument maker Gemma Frisius’ 1545 book \"De Radio Astronomica et Geometrica\", in which he described and illustrated how he used the camera obscura to study the solar eclipse of January 24, 1544\n\nItalian polymath Gerolamo Cardano described using a glass disc - probably a biconvex lens - in a camera obscura in his 1550 book \"De subtilitate, vol. I, Libri IV\". He suggested to use it to view \"what takes place in the street when the sun shines\" and advised to use a very white sheet of paper as a projection screen so the colours wouldn't be dull.\n\nSicilian mathematician and astronomer Francesco Maurolico (1494-1575) answered Aristotle's problem how sunlight that shines through rectangular holes can form round spots of light or crescent-shaped spots during an eclipse in his treatise \"Photismi de lumine et umbra\" (1521-1554). However this wasn't published before 1611, after Johannes Kepler had published similar findings of his own.\n\nItalian polymath Giambattista della Porta described the camera obscura, which he called \"obscurum cubiculum\", in the 1558 first edition of his book series \"Magia Naturalis\". He suggested to use a convex mirror to project the image onto paper and to use this as a drawing aid. Della Porta compared the human eye to the camera obscura: \"For the image is let into the eye through the eyeball just as here through the window\". The popularity of Della Porta's books helped spread knowledge of the camera obscura.\n\nIn his 1567 work \"La Pratica della Perspettiva\" Venetian nobleman Daniele Barbaro (1513-1570) described using a camera obscura with a biconvex lens as a drawing aid and points out that the picture is more vivid if the lens is covered as much as to leave a circumference in the middle.\nIn his influential and meticulously annotated Latin edition of the works of Al-Haytam and Witelo \"Opticae thesauru\" (1572) German mathematician Friedrich Risner proposed a portable camera obscura drawing aid; a lightweight wooden hut with lenses in each of its four walls that would project images of the surroundings on a paper cube in the middle. The construction could be carried on two wooden poles. A very similar setup was illustrated in 1645 in Athanasius Kircher's influential book \"Ars Magna Lucis Et Umbrae\".\n\nAround 1575 Italian Dominican priest, mathematician, astronomer, and cosmographer Ignazio Danti designed a camera obscura gnomom and a meridian line for the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella, Florence and he later had a massive gnomon built in the San Petronio Basilica in Bologna. The gnomon was used to study the movements of the sun during the year and helped in determining the new Gregorian calendar for which Danti took place in the commission appointed by Pope Gregorius XIII and instituted in 1582.\n\nIn his 1585 book \"Diversarum Speculationum Mathematicarum\" Venetian mathematician Giambattista Benedetti proposed to use a mirror in a 45 degree angle to project the image upright. This leaves the image reversed, but would become common practice in later camera obscura boxes.\n\nGiambattista della Porta added a “lenticular crystal” or biconvex lens to the camera obscura description in the 1589 second edition of \"Magia Naturalis\". He also described use of the camera obscura to project hunting scenes, banquets, battles, plays or anything desired on white sheets. Trees, forests, rivers, mountains \"that are really so, or made by Art, of Wood, or some other matter\" could be arranged on a plain in the sunshine on the other side of the camera obscura wall. Little children and animals (for instance handmade deer, wild boars, rhinos, elephants and lions) could perform in this set. \"Then by degrees they must appear, as coming out of their dens, upon the Plain: The Hunter he must come with his hunting Pole, Nets, Arrows, and other necessaries, that may represent hunting: Let there be Horns, Cornets, Trumpets sounded: those that are in the Chamber shall see Trees, Animals, Hunters Faces, and all the rest so plainly, that they cannot tell whether they be true or delusions: Swords drawn will glister in at the hole, that they will make people almost afraid.\" \nDella Porta claimed to have shown such spectacles often to his friends. They admired it very much and could hardly be convinced by Della Porta's explanations that what they had seen was really an optical trick. \n\nThe earliest use of the term \"camera obscura\" is found in the 1604 book \"Ad Vitellionem Paralipomena\" by German mathematician, astronomer, and astrologer Johannes Kepler. Kepler discovered the working of the camera obscura by recreating its principle with a book replacing a shining body and sending threads from its edges through a many-cornered aperture in a table onto the floor where the threads recreated the shape of the book. He also realized that images are \"painted\" inverted and reversed on the retina of the eye and figured that this is somehow corrected by the brain. \nIn 1607 Kepler studied the sun in his camera obscura and noticed a sunspot, but he thought it was Mercury transiting the sun.\nIn his 1611 book \"Dioptrice\" Kepler described how the projected image of the camera obscura can be improved and reverted with a lens. It is believed he later used a telescope with three lenses to revert the image in the camera obscura.\n\nIn 1611 Frisian/German astronomers David and Johannes Fabricius (father and son) studied sunspots with a camera obscura, after realizing looking at the sun directly with the telescope could damage their eyes. They are thought to have combined the telescope and the camera obscura into camera obscura telescopy.\n\nIn 1612 Italian mathematician Benedetto Castelli wrote to his mentor, the Italian astronomer, physicist, engineer, philosopher and mathematician Galileo Galilei about projecting images of the sun through a telescope (invented in 1608) to study the recently discovered sunspots. Galilei wrote about Castelli's technique to the German Jesuit priest, physicist and astronomer Christoph Scheiner.\nFrom 1612 to at least 1630 Christoph Scheiner would keep on studying sunspots and constructing new telescopic solar projection systems. He called these \"Heliotropii Telioscopici\", later contracted to helioscope. For his helioscope studies Scheiner built a box around the viewing/projecting end of the telescope, which can be seen as the oldest known version of a box-type camera obscura. Scheiner also made a portable camera obscura.\n\nIn his 1613 book \"Opticorum Libri Sex\" Belgian Jesuit mathematician, physicist and architect François d'Aguilon described how some charlatans cheated people out of their money by claiming they knew necromancy and would raise the specters of the devil from hell to show them to the audience inside a dark room. The image of an assistant with a devil's mask was projected through a lens into the dark room, scaring the uneducated spectators.\nBy 1620 Kepler used a portable camera obscura tent with a modified telescope to draw landscapes. It could be turned around to capture the surroundings in parts.\n\nDutch inventor Cornelis Drebbel is thought to have constructed a box-type camera obscura which corrected the inversion of the projected image. In 1622 he sold one to the Dutch poet, composer and diplomat Constantijn Huygens who used it to paint and recommended it to his artist friends. Huygens wrote to his parents (translated from French):\nGerman Orientalist, mathematician, inventor, poet, and librarian Daniel Schwenter wrote in his 1636 book \"Deliciae Physico-Mathematicae\" about an instrument that a man from Pappenheim had shown him, which enabled movement of a lens to project more from a scene through the camera obscura. It consisted of a ball as big as a fist, through which a hole (AB) was made with a lens attached on one side (B). This ball was placed inside two halves of part of a hollow ball that were then glued together (CD), in which it could be turned around. This device was attached to a wall of the camera obscura (EF). This universal joint mechanism was later called a scioptric ball.\n\nIn his 1637 book \"Dioptrique\" French philosopher, mathematician and scientist René Descartes suggested placing an eye of a recently dead man (or if a dead man was unavailable, the eye of an ox) into an opening in a darkened room and scraping away the flesh at the back until one could see the inverted image formed on the retina.\nItalian Jesuit philosopher, mathematician and astronomer Mario Bettini wrote about making a camera obscura with twelve holes in his \"Apiaria universae philosophiae mathematicae\" (1642). When a foot soldier would stand in front of the camera, a twelve person army of soldiers making the same movements would be projected.\n\nFrench mathematician, Minim friar, and painter of anamorphic art Jean-François Nicéron (1613-1646) wrote about the camera obscura with convex lenses. He explained how the camera obscura could be used by painters to achieve perfect perspective in their work. He also complained how charlatans abused the camera obscura to fool witless spectators and make them believe that the projections were magic or occult science. These writings were published in a posthumous version of \"La Perspective Curieuse\" (1652).\n\nThe use of the camera obscura to project special shows to entertain an audience seems to have remained very rare. A description of what was most likely such a show in 1656 in France, was penned by the poet Jean Loret. The Parisian society were presented with upside-down images of palaces, ballet dancing and battling with swords. The performance was silent and Loret was surprised that all the movements made no sound. Loret felt somewhat frustrated that he did not know the secret that made this spectacle possible. There are several clues that this was a camera obscura show, rather than a very early magic lantern show, especially in the upside-down image and the energetic movements. \n\nGerman Jesuit scientist Gaspar Schott heard from a traveler about a small camera obscura device he had seen in Spain, which one could carry under one arm and could be hidden under a coat. He then constructed his own sliding box camera obscura, which could focus by sliding a wooden box part fitted inside another wooden box part. He wrote about this in his 1657 \"Magia universalis naturæ et artis\" (volume 1 - book 4 \"Magia Optica\" pages 199-201).\n\nBy 1659 the magic lantern was introduced and partly replaced the camera obscura as a projection device, while the camera obscura mostly remained popular as a drawing aid. The magic lantern can be seen as a development of the (box-type) camera obscura device.\n\nThe 17th century Dutch Masters, such as Johannes Vermeer, were known for their magnificent attention to detail. It has been widely speculated that they made use of camerae obscurae, but the extent of their use by artists at this period remains a matter of considerable controversy, recently revived by the Hockney–Falco thesis.\nGerman philosopher Johann Sturm published an illustrated article about the construction of a portable camera obscura box with a 45° mirror and an oiled paper screen in his book \"Collegium experimentale: sive curiosum\" (1676).\n\nJohann Zahn's \"Oculus Artificialis Teledioptricus Sive Telescopium\", published in 1685, contains many descriptions, diagrams, illustrations and sketches of both the camera obscura and the magic lantern. A hand-held device with a mirror reflex mechanism was first proposed by Johann Zahn in 1685, a design that would later be used in photographic cameras.\n\nThe scientist Robert Hooke presented a paper in 1694 to the Royal Society, in which he described a portable camera obscura. It was a cone-shaped box which fit onto the head and shoulders of its user.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 18th century craftsmen and opticians would make camera obscura devices in the shape of books, which were much appreciated by lovers of optical devices.\n\nOne chapter in the Conte Algarotti's \"Saggio sopra Pittura\" (1764) is dedicated to the use of a camera ottica (\"optic chamber\") in painting.\n\nBy the 18th century, following developments by Robert Boyle and Robert Hooke, more easily portable models in boxes became available. These were extensively used by amateur artists while on their travels, but they were also employed by professionals, including Paul Sandby and Joshua Reynolds, whose camera (disguised as a book) is now in the Science Museum in London. Such cameras were later adapted by Joseph Nicephore Niepce, Louis Daguerre and William Fox Talbot for creating the first photographs.\n\nWhile the technical principles of the camera obscura have been known since antiquity, the broad use of the technical concept in producing images with a linear perspective in paintings, maps, theatre setups and architectural and later photographic images and movies started in the Western Renaissance and the scientific revolution. While e.g. Alhazen (Ibn al-Haytham) had already observed an optical effect and developed a state of the art theory of the refraction of light, he was less interested to produce images with it (compare Hans Belting 2005); the society he lived in was even hostile (compare Aniconism in Islam) towards personal images. Western artists and philosophers used the Arab findings in new frameworks of epistemic relevance. E.g. Leonardo da Vinci used the camera obscura as a model of the eye, René Descartes for eye and mind and John Locke started to use the camera obscura as a metaphor of human understanding per se. The modern use of the camera obscura as an epistemic machine had important side effects for science. While the use of the camera obscura has dwindled away, for those who are interested in making one it only requires a few items including: a box, tracing paper, tape, foil, a box cutter, a pencil and a blanket to keep out the light.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38802958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38802958", "title": "Canaanism", "text": "Canaanism\n\nCanaanism was a cultural and ideological movement founded in 1939 that reached its peak in the 1940s among the Jews of Palestine. It has had significant effect on the course of Israeli art, literature and spiritual and political thought. Its adherents were called Canaanites (). The movement's original name was the \"Council for the Coalition of Hebrew Youth\" (); \"Canaanism\" was originally a pejorative term. It grew out of Revisionist Zionism and according to Ron Kuzar had \"its early roots in European extreme right-wing movements, notably Italian fascism\" which was not anti-Semitic like German national socialism. Most of its members were part of the Irgun or Lehi. Canaanism never had more than around two dozen registered members, but because most of these were influential intellectuals and artists, the movement had an influence far beyond its size, Its members believed that much of the Middle East had been a Hebrew-speaking civilization in antiquity. Kuzar also says they hoped to revive this civilization, creating a \"Hebrew\" nation, disconnected from the Jewish past, which would embrace the Middle East's Arab population as well. They saw both \"world Jewry and world Islam\" as backward and medieval; Ron Kuzar writes that the movement \"exhibited an interesting blend of militarism and power politics toward the Arabs as an organized community on the one hand and a welcoming acceptance of them as individuals to be redeemed from medieval darkness on the other.\"\n\nThe movement was founded in 1939. In 1943 the Jewish-Palestinian poet Yonatan Ratosh published an \"Epistle to the Hebrew Youth\", the first manifesto of the Canaanites. In this tract, Ratosh called upon Hebrew youth to disaffiliate themselves from Judaism, and declared that no meaningful bond united Hebrew youth residing in Palestine and Judaism. Ratosh argued that Judaism was not a nation but a religion, and as such it was universal, without territorial claims; one could be Jewish anywhere. For a nation to genuinely arise in Palestine, he maintained, the youth must uncouple from Judaism and form a Hebrew nation with its own unique identity. (The term \"Hebrew\" had been associated with the Zionist aspiration to create a strong, self-confident \"new Jew\" since the late nineteenth century). The birthplace and geographical coordinates of this nation is the Fertile Crescent.\n\nThe Council for the Coalition of Hebrew Youth calls upon you as a Hebrew, as one for whom the Hebrew homeland is a homeland in actuality: not as vision, nor as desire; and not as solution for the Jewish question, nor as solution to cosmic questions, and not as solution to the variegated neuroses of those stricken by the diaspora. As one for whom the Hebrew language is a language in actuality and practicality, a mother tongue, a language of culture and of the soul; the one and only language for emotion and thought. As one whose character and intellect were determined in the Hebrew reality, whose internal landscape is the landscape of the nation and whose past is the past of the nation alone. As one who, despite the best efforts of rootless parents, teachers, statesmen and religious leaders, could not be made to like and affiliate with the Shtetl and the history of the diaspora, the pogroms and expulsions and martyrs, and whose natural estrangement from all prophets of Zionism, the fathers of Jewish Literature in the Hebrew tongue, and the diaspora mentality and the diaspora problem, cannot be expunged. Whereas all these were conferred upon you by force, like a borrowed cloth, faded and tattered and too-tight.\nOut of their estrangement from Judaism the Canaanites were also estranged from Zionism. The State of Israel ought to be, they argued, a Hebrew state, not a solution to the Jewish Question. Following the first Aliyot, a generation arose in Palestine that spoke Hebrew as a native language and did not always identify with Judaism. Designating the Israeli People as a \"Jewish People\", the Canaanites argued, was misleading. If it was possible to be a Jew anywhere, then the State of Israel was merely an anecdote in the history of Judaism. A nation must be rooted in a territory and a language—things which Judaism, in its very nature, could not provide.\n\nThe movement promoted the idea that the Land of Israel was that of ancient Canaan (or, according to others, the whole of the Fertile Crescent) in which ancient peoples and cultures had lived, and that the historical occasion of the reemergence of an Israeli people constituted a veritable revival of these selfsame ancient Hebrews and their civilization, and consequently a rejection of religious Judaism in favor of a native and rooted Hebrew identity.\n\nBecause the Canaanites sought to create in Israel a new people, they mandated the dissociation of Israelis from Judaism and the history of Judaism. In their stead they placed the culture and history of the Ancient Near East, which they considered the true historical reference. They argued that the people of the Land of Israel in the days of the biblical monarchs had not been Jewish but Hebrew, and had shared a cultural context with other peoples of the region. Citing contemporary biblical criticism, the Canaanites argued that the Tanakh reflected this ancient history, but only partly, since it had been compiled in the period of the Second Temple by Jewish scribes who had rewritten the history of the region to suit their world-view.\n\nMuch of the Canaanite effort was dedicated to researching the history of the Middle East and its peoples. The Canaanites cited approvingly the work of Umberto Cassuto, who translated Ugaritic poetry into Hebrew. (Ugarit was an ancient city located in modern-day northern Syria, where in the early 20th century many important ancient texts, written in the Ugaritic language, were discovered.) Ugaritic verse bore an uncanny resemblance to the language of the Tanakh. The Canaanites argued that these texts proved that the people of the Land of Israel had been much closer socially and culturally to other peoples of the region than they had been to Judaism.\n\nIn his book, \"Sifrut Yehudit ba-lashon ha-ʻIvrit\" (Jewish Literature in the Hebrew Tongue), Yonatan Ratosh sought to differentiate between Hebrew literature and Jewish literature written in the Hebrew language. Jewish literature, Ratosh claimed, could be and was written in any number of languages. The ideas and writing style that characterize Jewish literature in Hebrew were not substantially different from those of Jewish literature in other languages. Ratosh and his fellow Canaanites (especially Aharon Amir) thought that Hebrew literature should be rooted to its historical origins in the Land of Israel and the Hebrew language. As an example they noted American literature, which in their mind was newly created for the new American people.\n\nCanaanite verse is often obscure to those unfamiliar with ancient Ugaritic and Canaanite mythology. One of the principal techniques used by the Canaanites to produce Hebrew literature was to adopt words and phrases (especially hapax legomena, which the Canaanites regarded as traces of the original unedited Hebraic Tanakh) from the Tanakh, and use them in a poetic that approximated biblical and Ugaritic verse, especially in their use of repetitive structures and parallelism. The Canaanites did not rule out the use of new Hebrew words, but many of them did avoid Mishnaic Hebrew. However, these characteristics represent only the core of the Canaanite movement, and not its full breadth.\n\nThe late literary scholar Baruch Kurzweil argued that the Canaanites were not \"sui generis\", but a direct continuation (albeit a radical one) of the literature of Micha Josef Berdyczewski and Shaul Tchernichovsky.\n\nRatosh and his brother, Uzzi Ornan, also sought for the Romanization of Hebrew in order to further divorce the language from the older Hebrew alphabet. Writing articles in the Hebrew-language press in the 1960s and 1970s, they criticized the Hebrew alphabet for its graphical shortcomings and relationship with Judaism, and proposed for official Romanization of the language in order to further free secular Hebrew Israelis from the hold of religion and integrate them into the larger Levantine region. Their proposals for wholesale Romanization met condemnation from various public figures due to the perception that Romanization was a means of assimilation and Levantinization.\n\nAytürk later compared the Canaanite proposal for Romanization to the more successful reform of the Turkish alphabet as undertaken by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in Turkey; the reform of Turkish spelling, which had previously been written in the Arabic-based Ottoman Turkish alphabet for over 1,000 years until the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, was similarly motivated by Atatürk's attempts to secularize and modernize post-Ottoman Turkish society.\n\nThe Coalition published a journal, \"Aleph\", which ran from 1948-1953, featuring the works of several luminaries of the movement including Ratosh, Adia Horon, Uzzi Ornan, Amos Kenan and Benjamin Tammuz. It was edited by Aharon Amir, and the journal circulated erratically throughout its existence.\n\nThe history of the Coalition and the movement was fraught with controversy and opposition. In 1951, leaflets were distributed by self-identified Canaanites in opposition to Zionism during the World Zionist Congress in Jerusalem that year. Later that year, the Coalition was formally organized at a conference of ideologues, but the permit to formally register as an NGO was deliberately delayed by the Interior Ministry; the ministry's representative explained that the approval has been delayed because \"the group did not complete the standard inquiry of the granting of approvals for political societies\". The group claimed as many as 500 members at its height, although outside commentators only assessed the membership at around 100.\n\nAfter the arrest of Amos Kenan in June 1952 on suspicion of throwing a bomb onto the doorstep of David-Zvi Pinkas, newspaper editorials were lodged against the Canaanite movement and its members. The Coalition claimed to have no connection to Kenan or his act, and both Amir and Ratosh filed a libel suit against Isaiah Bernstein of \"HaTzofe\" and Ezriel Carlebach from \"Maariv\" on behalf of the Coalition, but the suit was rejected for technical reasons.\n\nIn the 1960s, the movement's members participated in group discussions called \"Hebrew Thought Clubs\" and issued a booklet of their discussions as \"the first claw.\" Among participants in the discussions were also identified individuals who were Canaanites, as Rostam Bastuni, an Israeli Arab who was a member of the second Knesset for Mapam, and Yehoshua Palmon.\n\nThe political influence of the Canaanites was limited, but their influence on literary and intellectual life in Israel was great. Among the avowed Canaanites were the poet Yonatan Ratosh and thinkers such as Edya Horon. A series of articles which Horon published in the journal \"Keshet\" in 1965 were compiled after his death into a book and published in 2000. These articles constituted political and cultural manifestos that sought to create a direct connection between Semitic culture from the second millennium BCE and contemporary Israeli culture, relying on advancements in the fields of archeology and research of Semitic languages in linguistics.\n\nSome of the artists who took after the movement were the sculptor Yitzhak Danziger (whose \"Nimrod\" became a visual emblem of the Canaanite idea), novelist Benjamin Tammuz, writer Amos Kenan, novelist and translator Aharon Amir, thinker and linguist Uzzi Ornan and many others.\n\nThe journalist Uri Avnery praised Horon's journal \"Shem\" in 1942 but did not subscribe to Ratosh's orthodoxy; in 1947 he derided the Canaanites as romantic, anachronistic, and divorced from reality. However, the influence of Canaanism is still evident in some of his political thought, such as his 1947 proposal for a pan-Semitic union of Middle Eastern states. Avnery, along with several former Canaanites (notably Kenan and Boaz Evron) later changed positions drastically, becoming advocates for a Palestinian state. Israeli leftists and secularists are sometimes accused of Canaanism or Canaanite influence by their opponents.\n\nThe idea of creating a new people in Palestine different from the Jewish life in the diaspora which preceded it never materialized in purist Canaanite conception, but nevertheless had a lasting effect on the self-understanding of many spheres of Israeli public life.\n\nThe Canaanite movement, since soon after its inception, has met with heavy criticism. In 1945 Nathan Alterman published the poem \"Merivat Kayitz\" (later included in the collection \"Yr HaYona\", published in 1958), which took issue with the central tenets of the Canaanite movement. Alterman and others claimed that so many years in the diaspora cannot be simply expunged. Alterman argued that no one should coerce the Jewish settlement to adopt an identity; its identity will be determined through its experience in time.\n\nRatosh responded with an article in 1950 in which he claimed that Alterman was dodging important questions about Israeli identity. He argued that a return to ancient Hebrew traditions is not only feasible but necessary.\n\nAlterman was not the only person to speak out against the Canaanites. Among the important critics of the movement was Baruch Kurzweil, who published \"The Roots and Quintessence of the 'Young Hebrews' Movement\" in 1953, which analyzed and sharply criticized Canaanite ideas. Kurzweil argued that the Canaanite ambition to motivate the variegated ethnography of the region in a single direction was not as easy as the Canaanites believed. Kurzweil believed the Canaanites replaced logos with mythos, producing a religious delusion:\n\nSince it itself neglects the historical continuity of its people, introduces obscure concepts into their political vision in its declarations of a 'Hebrew Land on the Euphrates', and relies on increasingly irrational argumentation, the movement is liable to find itself an escape into the realm of myth.\n\nThe Young Hebrews are not the first to launch themselves into the task of mythic renewal. Their original contribution is rather stale. For over a hundred years, the world has pined for a return to the lap of myth. The escapes into various myths have hitherto inflicted disasters upon humanity. In the spirit of good faith, it is best to assume that the whole chapter of mythic renewal in European thought is unclear to them. For the moment, we shall content ourselves with this quotation from Huizinga: \"Barbarization sets in when, in an old culture… the vapors of the magic and fantastic rise up again from the seething brew of passions to cloud the understanding: when the mythos supplants the logos.\"\nIn the same article Kurzweil argues that, if no viable alternative was found, the Canaanite movement might become the leading political ideology in Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92379", "title": "Catachresis", "text": "Catachresis\n\nCatachresis (from Greek , \"abuse\"), originally meaning a semantic misuse or error—e.g., using \"militate\" for \"mitigate\", \"chronic\" for \"severe\", \"anachronism\" for \"anomaly\", \"alibi\" for \"excuse\", etc.—is also the name given to many different types of figures of speech in which a word or phrase is being applied in a way that significantly departs from conventional (or traditional) usage.\n\nThere are various subdefinitions of catachresis.\n\nDead people in a graveyard being referred to as inhabitants is an example of catachresis.\n\nCatachresis is often used to convey extreme emotion or alienation. It is prominent in baroque literature and, more recently, in dadaist and surrealist literature.\n\nExample from Alexander Pope's \"Peri Bathous, Or the Art of Sinking in Poetry\":\nMasters of this [Catachresis] will say,\n\nIn Jacques Derrida's ideas of deconstruction, catachresis refers to the original incompleteness that is a part of all systems of meaning. He proposes that metaphor and catachresis are tropes that ground philosophical discourse. Postcolonial theorist Gayatri Spivak applies this word to \"master words\" that claim to represent a group, \"e.g.\", women or the proletariat, when there are no \"true\" examples of \"woman\" or \"proletarian\". In a similar way, words that are imposed upon people and are deemed improper thus denote a catachresis, a word with an arbitrary connection to its meaning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6804939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804939", "title": "Cathedral Quarter, Belfast", "text": "Cathedral Quarter, Belfast\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter in Belfast, Northern Ireland, is a developing area of the city, roughly situated between Royal Avenue near where the Belfast Central Library building is, and the Dunbar Link in the city centre. From one of its corners, the junction of Royal Avenue, Donegall Street and York Street, the Cathedral Quarter lies south and east. Part of the area, centred on Talbot Street behind the cathedral, was formerly called the Half Bap. The \"Little Italy\" area,was on the opposite side of Great Patrick Street centred on Little Patrick Street and Nelson Street \n\nThe Cathedral Quarter extends out to the edge of what can be referred as the old merchant quarter of the city. Past where the merchant area meets the Cathedral Quarter is still mostly merchant trade and services orientated and undeveloped for visitor services.\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter is so called because St Anne's Cathedral lies at its heart. St. Anne's or Belfast Cathedral is a Church of Ireland cathedral.\n\nTraditionally, the Cathedral Quarter was the centre of Belfast's trade and warehousing district, which sprung up directly from the prosperous linen and shipbuilding industries. The quarter still retains some of Belfast's oldest buildings and thoroughfares, including Waring Street and Hill Street.\n\nThe area fell into decline in the last century, but more recently it has re-emerged as a dedicated 'cultural quarter' of Belfast. Areas such as North Street are still in a state of dilapidation, but are likely to be redeveloped along with the rest of the quarter.\n\nThe definition of the area as a cultural quarter mostly came about because of the recent significant growth in arts- and culture-based organisations that are located there. As is the case with London's Covent Garden and Dublin's Temple Bar in the years before they became as renowned as they are, low rent and a central city location attracted to the area a wide variety of tenants. Some examples include Northern Visions TV (a.k.a. Belfast Community Television), The Safehouse Arts Gallery (and its parent organisation Community Visual Images), Belfast Print Workshop and Belfast's small Zen Meditation community, which has its headquarters at Black Mountain Zen Centre (a.k.a. Belfast Meditation Centre) in rooms in Cathedral Buildings, opposite St. Anne's. Dilapidated infrastructure, however, prevented any sort of mass repopulation of the area until recently. Development and repopulation may further have been hindered from a time since the North Street Arcade, a listed building from the 1930s in the traditional Art Deco style, burned down in what many people believe were suspicious circumstances in 2004.\n\nA rich literary heritage is evident in the area. \"The Northern Whig\" was a popular satirical newspaper in the 19th century (very much in the same vein as \"Punch\"), with its headquarters on the corner of Waring Street and Bridge Street, opposite the Assembly Rooms. Today, \"The Northern Whig\" building is a pub and restaurant, but the tradition of satirical writing still has a home in Cathedral Quarter through \"The Vacuum\", which has its offices in the area. Cathedral Quarter is very close to both the Belfast Central Library building and the headquarters of local newspaper publication the \"Belfast Telegraph\". (Central Library photo link.) The \"Sunday World\" has its Belfast offices in Commercial Court in the Cathedral Quarter. Another newspaper, the \"Belfast News Letter\", formerly had its headquarters on Donegall Street. \"The Irish News\", another well-known newspaper, still has its head office on Donegall Street.\n\nAs if to connect with this literary flavour, a popular pub in the area is named after Belfast poet John Hewitt. The John Hewitt houses noteworthy and interesting artwork and photographs in changing exhibitions, sometimes of political subjects, often with the art being for sale. As well there is a particular small-but-significant political display installation, and some cuttings about the poet John Hewitt.\n\nBelfast's Custom House, situated on the very edge of Cathedral Quarter by the city's central Laganside bank, was a popular site for public speakers during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In those times, in the vein of London's Speakers' Corner, the city's citizens often participated in the art of lively and spontaneous debate on any given subject. Today, in the site's reincarnation as Custom House Square, activities can be widely varied, from more pedestrian and family-orientated performances and activities to large-scale music concerts, D.J. performances and circus-style performance events for both adults and children. In autumn 2008, a showcase style afternoon with a succession of performers of roots, modern folk and country music from all over the world was hosted in tents. This is a characteristic type of occasion in Custom House Square which happens quite a number of times each year. This occasion was the closing day of the internationally highly acclaimed annual Open House Festival of the city. The festival takes place in many venues, including others within Cathedral Quarter, and its presence within marquees in Custom House Square in 2008 included an international festival of chilli peppers and chilli dishes.\n\nThe annual Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival in late Spring is one of the larger of the city's many cultural festivals. This festival has become internationally recognised and attracts a good number of international performers. Though the CQAF is a notably smaller affair than the Belfast Festival at Queen's which has been known at times as the second largest international European arts Festival (second in size to the Edinburgh Festival). An offshoot of this festival which is organised by the same Cathedral Quarter festival company is a smaller annual cultural festival, which however has a duration of most of the month: The Out to Lunch Arts Festival happens in The Cathedral Quarter in January.\n\nAlso central to the area is the Belfast campus of the University of Ulster, incorporating the Art College. Nearby North Street is home to many of Belfast's most notorious bars and venues, particularly renowned during the punk movement of the 1970s. These include The Front Page and Giro's (closed 2004). Derry rockers The Undertones were regular visitors to the University of Ulster's student union building, the Conor Hall, as well as The Assembly Rooms (a building which currently houses a Central Belfast gallery of The Emer Gallery, and has been known as The Northern Bank theatre). Local punk producer Terri Hooley ran a record store called Cathedral Records in the North Street Arcade before 2004's fire.\n\nOther arts organisations active in the area include:\n\nThe area hosts a good number of various kinds of artists' spaces, though these are generally not open to the public. There are meetings in and around the area of various cultural and community organisations which members of the public can attend; for example the Belfast Humanist Group meet a couple of times a month at the Community Arts Forum opposite the cathedral.\n\nThe cathedral itself remains a venue for cultural events, including evening and sometimes lunchtime music concerts. Concerts can be given by the musical performers associated with the cathedral and, more often, by independent musicians. The services of the cathedral frequently include sung services by the cathedral choir, and organ playing by the cathedral organist or sometimes a visiting organist. Evensong is also sung here. The Sunday sung service is at 11 am. There is also a youth choir of the cathedral which performs, of persons in their late teens and early twenties who are thought to be of a high standard of music making. Their aim is to perform and produce marketed recordings and radio recordings. Persons of any religion or none are welcome to attend services, musical or otherwise. Concerts given by independent musicians are given in a lovely venue and are not connected with the spiritual affairs of the Church of Ireland cathedral.\n\nThe Northern Ireland War Memorial is a quite recently established commemorative museum and exhibition space in Talbot Street (along one side of the cathedral). Prince Michael of Kent was Guest of Honour at a commemorative service in re-dedication of the War Memorial on November 4, 2008.\n\nOn the corner of Donegall Street and Waring Street, a former bank building had become known as the Northern Bank Theatre, having housed irregular dramatic performances, mostly limited to festival times. This fine city building had been known in a former incarnation as the Exchange and Assembly Rooms. In 2008's Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival, a monologue production about the Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, \"The Lady of Burma\", was a popular play, it also proving a good use of this building. There has been much comment about the desire for this building to have a cultural use, given its excellent location and spatial quality. A future permanent function of the building is not known publicly.\n\nLate in 2008, the former Northern Bank building has become a city centre location for The Emer Gallery, an established Belfast gallery which is based near the northern edge of Belfast in the Cavehill vicinity. A large retrospective of the work of Armagh artist J. B. Vallely was programmed here until early 2009. This exhibition also demonstrated the suitability of the building as a gallery space. The Emer Gallery is named after a female Irish mythological character.\n\nIn recent years, Belfast based public-private body Laganside Corporation has announced plans to revitalise the area. Their sponsored initiatives have included a 'Managed Workspace' scheme, in which artists are invited to inhabit workshop space owned and refurbished by Laganside. The first such scheme was the refurbishment in 2002 of an old cotton warehouse, named Cotton Court. Other Managed Workspaces are at 23-25 Donegall Street and 9-13 Royal Avenue. It was at this time that Cathedral Quarter was given its name. Such was the popularity of the scheme that many other quarters have subsequently emerged in Belfast, both spontaneously and by design, such as the Gaeltacht Quarter, Titanic Quarter and Queen's Quarter.\n\nThe new-found enthusiasm for the Cathedral Quarter has seen the commitment of a number of private investors, resulting in a number of hotel and bar developments appearing in recent years. Three competing commercial developments are currently in progress in the area. Public investment, mostly on the part of Belfast City Council, has also been apparent. In 2003, the council began a programme of street landscaping that began with laying new paving stones in Hill Street and Talbot Street, and which culminated in the opening in 2004 of Custom House Square, a council-managed public square in front of Belfast's old Custom House building.\n\nThe extent of private development in the Cathedral Quarter has led to criticism from the area's residents as to the intentions of Laganside Corporation in the area. A mixture of public and private developments initiatives has resulted in a general groundswell of support for the area, but critics have noted that Cathedral Quarter suffers from a lack of general leadership and accountability. The majority of the land in the area is owned by private developers, and the area fronting Royal Avenue and Donegall Street, which has been earmarked for a development due to open in 2010, was recently center of a controversy between the planners Dunloe-Ewart and coalition of the residents fronted by the Community Arts Forum. Eventually, the argument had to be mediated by the Northern Ireland Office, though the N.I.O. have no more of a say in the future of the area as any other party.\n\nSome of these problems may be ironed out when Laganside closes its offices in 2009, when it has promised to split responsibility for its development briefs, including Cathedral Quarter, between the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure for Northern Ireland (D.C.A.L., usually pronounced as 'Dee-Kal') and Belfast City Council. The future of the area in the favour of public ownership over private development is hoped to become clear by a reasonable time after the planned transfer.\n\nDisappointingly, a once touted planned development of \"The Four Corners\" site into a new major arts and entertainment space with cafe and bar provision did not materialise and it seems much of the great potential of such a significant site has not been heeded. Many will have been or are disappointed; the proposed arts development was advertised with illustrations outside the building. This historic Belfast building has been redeveloped as the second hotel in Belfast of the lower mid-price hotel chain, Premier Inn, and includes a large restaurant and bar, as also at Premier Inn, Alfred Street.\n\nIn the meantime, it can be seen that Cathedral Quarter has been developing, neither very quickly nor very slowly, into a quite diverse and in part, and at times, lively area, with an attractive variety of eateries and drinking hostelries. The close vicinity to The Merchant Hotel, extending to include the area from Malmaison Hotel, past McHughs Bar, to Mynt Bar and Club, can be one of the liveliest city districts on a weekend night.\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter is clearly a developing area of the city. While it has considerable good attractions presently, it is also true that its designation as a cultural quarter may easily lead to an apprehension of a usually busy and significantly developed cultural area of Belfast presently, which may bring some disappointment to visitors.\n\nThe good number of established attractions and their collection in this area of spirit and good interest are to any visitor likely to be found as well appreciated, rewarding establishments. The collection here makes the area attractive to residents and visitors certainly, and also assures great potential of the area for sensitive, hopefully unrestricted cultural development. However, presently, the area can also be reasonably quiet, and can seem a fractionally developed, half alive and half neglected world, weekend nights near The Merchant Hotel and the few main city arts festivals times aside.\n\nMany properties in this prime area lie dormant and neglected. The increasing popularity of the quarter is apparent, while there is some development: at this time (mid-Autumn '08) at the junction of Waring Street and Donegall Street, Belfast's second, new Premier Inn hotel has opened, which has connected the public bar \"The Four Corners\" and restaurant attached at street level. It seems that this area is ripe for rapid, sensitive cultural redevelopment.\n\nThe Future Belfast web site provides information about developments, completed, in progress and planned, within The Cathedral Quarter. (Link to Future Belfast Cathedral Quarter web page.)\n\nIn 2006, Belfast's Old Museum Arts Centre arts company and the Northern Ireland Arts Council announced plans to develop a dedicated arts venue for the city on the site of the Talbot Street car park. N.I.A.C. and Belfast City Council provided funds for a temporary arts venue on Hill Street, named 'The Black Box', until the Talbot Street development was finished. Currently referred to as The Metropolitan Arts Centre, or The M.A.C., the building opened in 2012 following an architectural design competition managed by RIBA Competitions where Hackett Hall McKnight Architects were appointed. There was some high-profile publicizing of the anticipated arts centre, including an involvement with Hollywood actress, Meryl Streep. The MAC has since been awarded the Downes Medal, by the Architectural Association of Ireland for an individual project and received an RIBA National Award. The building was nominated for the European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture – Mies van der Rohe Award and the Design Museum Designs of the Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52571593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52571593", "title": "Chris Mason (artist)", "text": "Chris Mason (artist)\n\nChris Mason (born 1976) is an Australian artist. Mason resides in Melbourne. His work is held in several public collections, including those of the National Gallery of Australia and the State Library of Victoria.\n\nBoth Mason's lack of formal training and autism have identified him as one of the key figures within the Outsider Art category in Australia. This categorisation is confirmed by his repeated inclusion in Outsider Art exhibitions and fairs, both in Australia and in the USA. However, in recent years his work has also achieved success in more conventional art institutions and has been acquired for major collections at the National Gallery of Australia and the State Library of Victoria.\n\nMason cites as a major influence the artist Ron Mueck, with whom his work shares the Hyperrealist style that emerged from photorealism, and whose subject matter is derived from reinterpretations of photographic imagery. His signature depictions of voluptuous women are sourced from images collected from the Internet and various publications; in his search for reference material he aims for women whose dimensions result in the figures being \"almost as tall as they are wide,\" dimensions which he views as \"perfect\" and \"archetypal.\" In recent years Mason has developed a tendency towards smaller-scale ceramic pieces and has expressed a strong interest in pursuing taxidermy in his work, which APA Studio Manager James McDonald describes as \"a logical next step.\" Mason has exhibited at Gertrude Contemporary, c3 Contemporary Art Space and Linden New Art. He has also held a solo exhibition at Sydney's prestigious Darren Knight Gallery in 2014.\n\nAnne Stonehouse, \"So Far… Eight Artists / Eight Stories\", Arts Project Australia, Melbourne, 2014. \n\nSim Luttin & Melissa Petty, \"Wild Lands\", exhibition catalogue, Linden New Art, Melbourne, 2016\n\n\"Chris Mason Solo\", Darren Knight Gallery, Sydney, 2014\n\n\"Michelle,\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2007\n\n\"The Chris Mason Show\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2002\n\n\"Clay: it’s a matter of substance\", Arts Project Australia, Melbourne, 2016\n\n\"Wild Lands\", Linden New Art, St Kilda, Melbourne, 2016\n\n\"Manningham Victorian Ceramic Award 2015,\" Manningham Art Gallery, 2015\n\n\"Deakin University Contemporary Small Sculpture Award,\" Deakin University Melbourne, 2015\n\n\"That’s Funny\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2015\n\n\"Melbourne Art Fair 2014,\" Royal Exhibition Building, Melbourne, 2000 - 2014\n\n\"Renegades: Outsider Art\", Moree Plains Gallery, national touring exhibition, 2013 - \"Into the Vault and Out of the Box\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2014 \n\n\"Turning the Page\", Gallery 101, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, 2014\n\n\"Manningham Victorian Ceramic Art Award\", Manningham Art Gallery, Melbourne, 2013\n\n\"Repeat. Restate… Reiterate,\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2013\n\n\"Outsiderism\" Fleisher Ollman Gallery, Philapelphia, USA, 2013\n\n\"World In My Eyes\", C3 Gallery, Melbourne, 2013\n\n\"In the making\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2012\n\n\"This Sensual World\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2011\n\n\"Erotica,\" James Makin Gallery, Collingwood, Melbourne, 2011\n\n\"Portrait Exchange,\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2010\n\n\"Pacifica\", Gallery Impaire, Paris, France, 2010\n\n\"The Agents,\" Gertrude Contemporary Art Spaces, Melbourne, 2010\n\n\"Off the Edge:\" Ceramics Triennale, Chrissie Cotter Gallery, Sydney \n\n\"Reinvention: Creativity and Self Identity\", Bundoora Homestead Art Centre, Melbourne\n\n\"Location Location Location!\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne\n\n\"Pearls of Arts Project Australia: Stuart Purves Collection\", national touring exhibition, 2007 - 2009\n\n\"Wild Things\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2008\n\n[null \"In Everyone’s Company\"], Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2006\n\n\"Leo Cussen with Selected Artists\", Australian Galleries, Collingwood, 2005\n\n\"South of the Border\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2005\n\n\"Sydney Art on Paper Fair\", Byron Kennedy Hall, Sydney, 2005\n\n\"Hitch a Ride\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2005\n\n\"Outsider Art Fair\", New York, United States. Hosted by the Phyllis Kind Gallery, New York, 2005\n\n\"Home Sweet Home: Works from the Peter Fay Collection\", National Gallery of Australia Travelling exhibition (Australia and New Zealand), 2004 – 2005\n\n\"2nd Annual Intuit Show of Folk and Outsider Art\", Chicago, United States, hosted by the \"Phyllis Kind Gallery\", New York, 2004\n\n\"Visual Disobedience,\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2004\n\n\"Printed Matter\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2004\n\n\"From vacuum cleaning to Plumpers Dance Party\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 2002\n\n\"Five Artists From Arts Project Australia\", Australian Galleries Works on Paper, Sydney, 2000\n\n\"Six Artists from Arts Project Australia\", Australian Galleries Works on Paper, Sydney, 1999\n\n\"Profile,\" Manningham City Gallery, Melbourne, 1999\n\n\"Transport\", Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 1998\n\n\"The Autistic Eye,\" Vic Health Access Gallery, National Gallery of Victoria, 1998\n\n\"Off the Wall,\" Arts Project Australia Gallery, Melbourne, 1998\n\n\"Manningham Victorian Ceramic Award 2015,\" Manningham Art Gallery, Finalist\n\n\"2015 Deakin University Small Sculpture Award\", Deakin University, Finalist\n\nPeople’s Choice Award, Moving Galleries, \"Observerance\" exhibition, Melbourne, 2012\n\nAnne Stonehouse, \"So Far… Eight Artists / Eight Stories\", Arts Project Australia, Melbourne, 2014. \n\nSim Luttin & Melissa Petty, \"Wild Lands\", exhibition catalogue, Linden New Art, Melbourne, 2016\n\nChris Mason's work is represented in National Gallery of Australia, State Library of Victoria, Stuart Purves Collection and private collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "25983145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25983145", "title": "Claude Calame", "text": "Claude Calame\n\nClaude Calame (born in Lausanne 1943) is a Swiss writer on Greek mythology and the structure of mythic narrative from the perspective of a Hellenist trained in semiotics and ethnology as well as philology. He is a professor of Greek language and literature at the University of Lausanne and Director of Studies at the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences, in Paris.\n\nAmong his works, several have been translated into English.\n"}
{"id": "44423058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44423058", "title": "Costa–Hawkins Rental Housing Act", "text": "Costa–Hawkins Rental Housing Act\n\nThe Costa–Hawkins Rental Housing Act (\"Costa–Hawkins\") is a California state law, enacted in 1995, which places limits on municipal rent control ordinances. Costa–Hawkins preempts the field in two major ways. First, it prohibits cities from establishing rent control over certain kinds of residential units, e.g., single family dwellings and condominiums, and newly constructed apartment units; these are deemed exempt. Second, it prohibits \"vacancy control\", also called \"strict\" rent control.\n\nIf an apartment is under \"vacancy control\", the city's ordinance works to deny or limit an owner's ability to increase its rent to new tenant(s). It works this way even in cases where the prior tenant voluntarily vacated the apartment or was evicted for a 'just cause' (such as failure to pay rent). In other words Costa–Hawkins, by now prohibiting \"vacancy control\" in the above voluntary or 'just cause' circumstances, mandates that cities allow an apartment owner the right to rent the vacancy at any price (i.e., usually the market price).\n\nRent control in California is largely the creation of its municipalities. This ability of city governments is limited by the federal and state constitutions, as well as federal and state laws. Costa–Hawkins is a key state statute enacted to manage the power of California cities to regulate their rental markets.\n\nThe late 1970s saw the second wave of rent control ordinances in California, and nationwide. Rising real estate values and surging interest rates made single family homes in California less affordable. Disappointed buyers often moved into apartments. A rental housing shortage appeared, rents went up. For chiefly non-housing reasons (e.g., land use), cities began restricting the building of new dwelling units. As prices rose for rental housing properties, return on investment and cash flow motivated new landlords with mortgages to raise rents. State and federal low-income housing assistance fell. Inflation was economy-wide, yet wages and salaries also fell. The consumer movement and Proposition 13 effects then stimulated tenant activism in municipal politics. \n\nThe issues involved in rent control are complex and compelling, with multiple dimensions: personal, social, economic, political, legal. Often debates and discussions are at risk of provoking a competition between overstatements. Some proponents may call every raise \"rent gouging\" while some opponents say rent control leads to slums. \"The range of assertions by rent control combatants [can be] astonishing.\" In the worse case, the \"debate becomes a hollow clash of extremes, and the results are an uninformed electorate, rash policy, and a divided community.\" In 'second generation rent control' the issues have become more articulated, yet still contested.\n\nIn 1972 Berkeley became the first California city to adopt a second-wave rent control ordinance. In 1976 Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat, vetoed state legislation (AB 3788) that would have preempted local rent control laws. It had been supported by a mainstream real estate group, the California Housing Council (CHC). In response to the veto, the real estate industry managed to get an initiative, Proposition 10, on the state ballot for 1980. It was soundly defeated, however, 65% to 35%.\n\nIn the meantime, in June 1978 Proposition 13 had been approved two to one by California voters. Before the election Howard Jarvis, the leader of the Prop. 13 'taxpayer revolt', as well as of the California Apartment Association, had suggested that landlords would lower rents if Prop. 13 passed. Many voters were said to have thought that Prop. 13, by lowering landlord property taxes, meant lower rents. The CHC, fearful of a tenant backlash if landlords failed to follow through, decided to oppose Prop. 13. Despite post-election efforts by Gov. Brown and the CHC, few landlords lowered their rents.\n\nAcross California urban tenants suddenly felt their numbers, formed local groups, which quickly grew in intensity and strength. Tenant activists organized political agitation directed at state and city government. Gov. Brown's new 'tenant hot line' was getting 12,000 calls a day. \"In response to tenant pressure, rent strikes, and steady news coverage about rent increases and angry tenants, especially seniors, the Los Angeles City Council passed a six month rent freeze in August 1978.\" By 1988, fourteen cities had adopted full rent control, and sixty-four cities rent control for mobile home parks.\nThe strength of the tenants groups, however, eventually began to dissipate. Yet CHC attempts to partially 'preempt' rent control were thwarted by Democrats, led by State Senator David Roberti, until term limits forced his retirement in 1995. On the other hand, Democrat Jim Costa in the Assembly had unsuccessfully carried 'preemption' bills for the real estate industry since 1983. He was now in the Senate, where his 1995 bill passed the Judiciary Committee; absent Roberti, it drew Democratic votes. The bill then passed the Senate with one vote \"more than the majority required.\"\n\nThe Costa–Hawkins Rental Housing Act became law in 1995. The statute became codified as Civil Code, §§ 1954.50 to 1954.535. The legislation's sponsors were Democratic Senator Jim Costa (Fresno) and Republican Assemblymember Phil Hawkins (Bellflower).\n\nIntroduced first in the Senate, the text of the legislation later became Assembly Bill 1164. After enduring several negotiated changes, it had passed in both chambers. The Republican Governor Pete Wilson then signed AB 1164 into law.\n\nAlthough understood as limiting rent control, an agenda more favored by Republicans, some Democrats supported the Act. The pro-tenant Western Center on Law and Poverty (WCLP) had endorsed several features of the Bill that served tenant interests: the prohibition of rent increases \"if serious health, safety, fire, or building code violations were discovered and not corrected for six months,\" and some claims by subtenants to lower rent under an existing tenancy.\n\nThe WCLP especially sought to organize the opposition, to \"piece together a coalition\" of scattered local groups (tenants, senior citizens, religion affiliated), together with California cities with rent control. Accordingly Santa Monica, Berkeley, and West Hollywood contributed funds to hire a lobbyist. A concession obtained was the 3-year phase-in of vacancy decontrol. Yet the capitol consensus was that Costa–Hawkins was a \"done deal\" and the opposition a \"last gasp\". With defeat and what they viewed as a rollback of some tenant advantages, rent control advocates became uneasy at the challenge to their victories of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe Costa–Hawkins legislation is found in the California Civil Code, sections 1954.50 to 1954.535.\n\nThe Act exempts from rent control: single family dwellings, condos, and new construction. It prohibits local government regulations re \"vacancy control\" in most situations. For the five cities with \"vacancy control\" in 1995 the Act is phased-in. It situates government contracts with owners about rent charged (e.g., provisions for low income housing), and the effects of a notice of violation, e.g., about health or safety. Costa–Hawkins also addresses subtenancies, and other issues.\n\nThe Act prohibits rent control on single family homes, on condominiums, and on newly built rental units. Generally, 'new' means any building constructed after February 1, 1995 (per the 1995 Costa-Hawkins Act). But for cities with existing rent control, 'new' is back-dated per the local rent control ordinance.\n\nIn those cities the enactment date of rent control determines what is 'new'. Only rental units constructed before then will remain subject to the city's rent control. Those built after will remain exempt under Costa-Hawkins. Hence, in San Francisco only construction older than 1979 can be rent controlled, and older than 1980 in Oakland and Berkeley, the years those cities passed their rent control laws. In the City of Los Angeles, the date is October, 1978.\n\nThese exemptions, however, may leave most of a city's total rental stock under rent control. For example, in San Francisco, as of 2014, about 75% of all rental units were rent controlled.\n\nThe Act was amended in 2002 to close a loophole related to condominium conversions after the 1995 Act. Owners of an apartment building may obtain a new certificate of occupancy due to a condo conversion even without then selling any converted units. In such case, the rental units do not become exempt from rent control under the Act.\n\nCosta-Hawkins is the key state legislation which serves to guide the operative provisions and practice of rent control in California. Yet it is the local governments, for the most part the cities, which actually write and adopt the specific rent control laws. \n\nA local rent control ordinance may explicitly declare its purpose. Stated or implied is the finding, or assumption, that the rent control being enacted will in fact improve the community's well-being. \nUsually rent control is a city-made law (a municipal ordinance) aimed at mitigating the disruptive effect, on neighborhoods and on individual renters, of escalating or fluctuating prices in the residential rental market. It may also seek to promote the maintenance of safe and habitable dwelling units during housing shortages.\n\nAn example of such city intent is San Francisco's \"Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance\" (SFRO), enacted in 1979 as an emergency ordinance amending the San Francisco Administrative Code. It found that, in the face of tight markets and significant rental increases prior to rent control, \"some tenants attempt to pay requested rent increases, but as a consequence must expend less on other necessities of life. This situation has had a detrimental effect on substantial numbers of renters in the City, especially creating hardships on senior citizens, persons on fixed incomes and low and moderate income households\".\n\nFor the California State Assembly its analyst Stephen Holloway commented on the constitutional and legal context of rent control, specifically between the state and local governments (e.g., cities). When Costa–Hawkins was enacted, existing California law made \"no statutory provision for, but does not prohibit, the adoption of local rent control ordinances. Case law, \"Birkenfeld v. City of Berkeley\" (1976) 17 Cal. 3d 129, held that rent control is a proper exercise of a local government's police power if it is reasonably calculated to eliminate excessive rents and at the same time provide landlords with just and reasonable returns on their properties.\"\n\nIn the 1997 \"Kavanau\" case, a rental property owner challenged the City of Santa Monica's rent control law as a form of \"taking\" or inverse condemnation prohibited by the federal Constitution. The California Supreme Court affirmed the rulings by lower state courts in favor of the City. In the 2005 \"Berger Foundation\" case, the California Court of Appeal upheld an ordinance which provided that the city council sitting as a rent board would determine what was fair, just, and reasonable regarding an owner's comparable return on investment. The ordinance did not establish a specific formula or procedure to apply when faced with a requested rent increase, but instead stated eleven factors to consider. Here the board had then relied on an expert's opinion.\n\nIts chief provisions regulate the dollar amount charged the tenant each month. The political intent of most rent control ordinances, usually the sine qua non, directs the city's attention at the ownership, and limits its ability to raise the rent.\n\nPercentage. A maximum permitted price increase may be expressed as a percentage of the existing rent. For example, Alameda 5%, Hayward 5%, Los Angeles 3%, Los Gatos 5%. In 2016 San Jose lowered the allowable annual rent increase from 8% to 5% of existing rent. In 2017 in Beverly Hills by an emergency ordinance, the rent raise maximum plunged from 10% to 3%.\nCPI. Alternatively, rent raise limits may be directly keyed to changes in the cost of living, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Since 1980 in California the CPI has generally been lower than 5%. Examples of rent control ordinances using CPI as an index: Oakland, Mountain View, Richmond. In San Francisco the SFRO limits annual increases to the lesser of 60% of the CPI or 7% of existing rent. Similarly, the Berkeley Rent Board allows an annual increase of 65% of CPI.\n\nVacancy control, in which the amount of rent charged for a rental unit (rather than for a tenancy) is strictly regulated by local government, is discussed below in \"Vacancy control prior to the Act\".\n\nEvery city or county with some variety of 'rent control' has its own, crafted law which may differ significantly in scope and content. Among the other issues a 'rent control' law might address:\n\n\nJust cause terminations. A no-cause (or no-fault) rental termination by the owner is one that does not state a \"just cause\" (such as non-payment of rent, or a tenant-created nuisance). A city may require some form of \"just cause\" be noticed by an owner in order to terminate. But \"just cause\" is not required of evictions under state law. Other justifications may constitute \"just cause\", e.g.: (a) pursuant to government order; (b) to allow the owner's family to occupy the unit. Owners claim these laws limit their ability to deal with problem tenants who disturb their neighbors, e.g., by nuisance, domestic violence, criminal activity.\n\nRelocation allowance. A city ordinance \"may\" require the owner to pay the departing tenant an allowance for moving and similar expenses, e.g., in event of no-fault termination. Each city has its own specifics. The tenant will not receive such an allowance in the event of \"just cause\" terminations, where the tenant is at fault (such as non-payment of rent, or creating a nuisance). But an owner's decision to end an existing tenancy (by written notice, by a court's eviction order) without the tenant being at fault, \"might\" trigger an owner's duty to pay the allowance. Withdrawal of a unit from the residential rental market is governed by the Ellis Act.\n\nVacancy control. Discussed below at \"Vacancy control prior to the Act\".\n\nGenerally economists find fault with how rent control works over time: it reduces the supply of housing. In making the opposition argument, such general principles have been applied to California. Pro-rent control arguments are usually adopted by cities when enacting ordinances establishing rent control (see above).\n\nOriginal rent control efforts sought to provide the public with affordable housing, but caused a fall in the number of new units being built, thus aggravating the housing shortage. Subsequent rent control laws exempted new construction. Yet such regulation also removes incentives to improve, or even maintain, older housing stock. It encourages owners to convert rentals to condos for sale or to other uses. Rent control laws provide short-term benefits without distinction: what is relief to low-income citizens, is windfall to wealthy renters. In dwelling units where municipal controls have set the rent below market, tenants stay longer, reducing the number of rentals available. Then market rents charged to new tenants go higher: (a) as owners counterbalance their rent-control losses, or (b) as builders of new units price the market demand versus supply. In brief, rent control reduces housing supply.\n\nEconomic conclusions are subject to interpretation by the public. Rent control that lowers rents for some can work to raise rents for others. Is it to be deemed 'good for society' if the total benefit amount to those favored with lower rents via rent control is cancelled by the program's unintended affect of raising the rent to others? What if its primary effect is merely to redistribute the cost of rent unequally rather than to reduce it overall. Is there an alternative? The authors of a recent 'Stanford paper' state, \"If society desires to provide social insurance against rent increases, it would be more desirable to offer this subsidy in the form of a government subsidy or tax credit.\"\n\nOver the last fifty years, out of a total of 482 California cities, perhaps two-dozen have enacted rent control ordinances, or lesser laws. A city may later discontinue its rent control, e.g., Santa Rosa voted to repeal its new rent control law in 2017.\n\nFifteen cities are currently listed as rent controlled by the State of California:\n\nThese are: Alameda, Berkeley, Beverly Hills, East Palo Alto, Hayward, Los Angeles, Los Gatos, Mountain View, Oakland, Palm Springs, Richmond. San Francisco, San Jose, Santa Monica, West Hollywood,\n\nAdditionally, Campbell (does not have rent control \"per se\", but offers a mediation service), Fremont (rejected rent control in 2017), and Thousand Oaks (has limited rent control: mostly just for mobile home parks).\n\nTwo examples of the many cities with rent control only for mobile home parks: Cotati, Thousand Oaks.\n\nSome cities have rental housing laws that do not control the amount of rent per se. Accordingly, these six have a mediation service: Campbell, Fremont, Gardena, Palo Alto, San Leandro, Union City. Definitions differ as to whether this would even count as \"rent control\". As noted above, Palo Alto declares that it has no rent control, but it does offers mediation over rent raises. On the other hand, Fremont lists as the third of six purposes for its mediation services: \"Limit rent increases to fair and reasonable amounts.\"\n\nGlendale's ordinance prohibits an eviction without just cause. But, like Palo Alto, Glendale declined 'rent control'. Almost all rent-controlled cities also prohibit evictions without just cause. Among California cities which do not control the rent amount, but do prohibit no-cause evictions: Glendale, San Diego, Union City.\n\nWithin the last few years, these cities either voted to repeal a rent control ordinance, or otherwise decided against rent control: Fremont (2017), Glendale (2013), Palo Alto (2017), Santa Rosa (2017).\n\nFrom the section on non-rent elements (mediation and just cause eviction), depending on definitions, these cities might be added here (to those that refuse to actually control the rent amount): Campbell, Gardena, San Leandro, and Union City.\n\nDuring the years from 1977 to 1983, the \"voters of 22 cities [rejected] 27 proposed rent control initiatives.\" Among those cities that then avoided rent control: Pasadena (1977), Santa Barbara (1978), Santa Cruz (1979), Long Beach (1980), San Diego (1980).\n\nThe \"major\" purposes of the Act were: to eliminate \"vacancy control\" and thereby reestablish an intermittent role for market forces (supply and demand) in setting the rental price; and, to exempt certain categories of rental units from rent control, e.g., new construction, and single family dwellings and condominiums. The exemption for new units sought to encourage housing supply.\n\nMost rent control ordinances (deemed \"moderate\") limit an owner's ability to increase the rent to \"an existing tenant\". Yet some \"strict\" rent control regimes also limited the rent a landlord could charge on the open market, that is, after the apartment became vacant by the voluntary exit of the prior tenant, or vacant by a just-cause eviction. Hence, \"strict\" was also called \"vacancy control\". The controlled rental amount thus became specific not only to a particular tenancy, but also to a specific rental unit.\n\nUnder such a \"strict\" regime, market forces are excluded from price determination (except for exempt categories, such as newly built units). Prior to the enactment of Costa–Hawkins, such strict \"vacancy control\" had existed in five cities: Berkeley, Santa Monica, Cotati, East Palo Alto and West Hollywood.\n\nCosta–Hawkins preempted local laws to allow 'vacancy decontrol', i.e., it abolished \"vacancy control\". Accordingly, the Act permits landlords to \"establish the initial rental rate for a dwelling or unit\" following voluntary departure by the prior tenants or following \"for cause\" evictions. For cities then with vacancy control, this preemption started the process of \"vacancy decontrol\" which was phased-in over three years. Accordingly, on January 1, 1999, it went into full effect.\n\nThe Act additionally exempted from municipal rent control certain kinds of dwelling units, namely, \"separately alienable\" units, i.e., single family houses and condominiums. The Act also exempted new construction, i.e., dwelling units with a certificate of occupancy issued after February 1, 1995.\n\nThe power to determine most of the elements of rent control (mentioned above) were left to the cities by the Act. Cities remain in control of changes to the rental amount of a tenancy, under constitutional limits. Cities possess a substantive jurisdiction to regulate evictions, and an owner's ability to otherwise end a tenancy. Accordingly, cities could prohibit an owner from terminating a tenant without \"just cause\". Also in terminations, the city by ordinance may place costs on an owner, and grant rights to a tenant, e.g., the relocation allowance.\n\nEach California city may independently adopt and enact its own rent control ordinance. Those in force range across the spectrum. Counties in California may also enact rent control laws, in accordance with state law.\n\nIn the two decades the Act has been on the books, a number of lawsuits have been filed citing it. Of those appealed, some became written case law. The 2009 \"Palmer\" case 'unexpectedly' upset local laws for inclusionary zoning per rental units. A few other cases are also discussed here. There remain questions about how to apply the Costa–Hawkins statute within the larger legal framework, e.g., its possible interaction with various, adjacent state statutes, and with varieties of municipal rent control and other ordinances.\n\nIn \"Palmer/Sixth Street Properties LP v. City of Los Angeles\" (2009), the issue involved how to apply Costa–Hawkins to an inclusionary housing ordinance of the City of Los Angeles. Inclusionary housing laws (also called inclusionary zoning) apply to the construction of new multi-unit developments and seek to mandate the inclusion of some affordable units with price controls, along with a larger number of units to be sold on the free market. About one-third of California cities and counties have inclusionary zoning ordinances. Such laws might require, beside affordable units for sale, units for rent. In this case, a Los Angeles housing ordinance in effect mandated that sixty \"rentals\" for low-income tenants be included in Geoff Palmer's 350-unit development west of downtown.\n\nThe appellate court held, however, that the exemption from rent control of new construction under Costa–Hawkins applied to the particular facts of this case. Thus the city could not enforce its housing mandate against the real estate developer.\n\nThe \"Palmer\" case thus removed rentals from the usual formula of inclusionary housing. Critics claimed, however, that the appellate court's opinion was \"widely viewed as a misapplication of the Costa–Hawkins Act to a situation it was never meant to address.\" It sparked a political response in 2013 that aimed to adjust the Act. Accordingly, Assembly Bill 1229 was passed by the California legislature \"to re-establish the legitimacy of affordable housing requirements for rentals.\"\n\nIn October 2013 Governor Jerry Brown vetoed the bill. He said, \"As Mayor of Oakland I saw how difficult it can be to attract developments to low and middle income communities. Requirements to developers to include below-market units in their projects can exacerbate these challenges, even while not meaningfully increasing the amount of affordable housing in a given community.\"\n\nAdvocates of affordable housing felt stymied. Yet there were alternatives that avoided the exemption for new construction under Costa–Hawkins: \"the builder receives either financial assistance\" or other valuable consideration such as a density bonus, and \"agrees by contract with the city to restrict rents.\"\n\nThe legislature in 2017 approved a bill (AB 1505) that modified the court's ruling in \"Palmer\". This bill restores to local governments the ability to require inclusionary \"rental\" housing for low income households, hence in effect setting their rent amount. Yet it allows for state oversight by a review (per a feasibility study) of such municipal requirements if applicable to over 15% of the units of a development project. Governor Brown then signed the bill which was among a package of fifteen housing bills for California in 2017.\n\nIn 2014 the California Court of Appeals clarified the Act's provision concerning a rent-control exemption based on a \"certificate of occupancy issued after February 1, 1995.\" The provision was held to apply only to certificates of occupancy that preceded the residential use of the unit.\n\nIn \"Burien, LCC v. James A. Wiley\" the Landlord contended that this Costa–Hawkins exemption applies to buildings converted from apartments to condominiums (both residential uses), when a new certificate is issued for the latter. The court reasoned that the purpose of the statute's exemption is to promote construction and development that increase the supply of rental housing, not to promote token reclassification without such a result. \"We conclude that section 1954.52, subdivision (a)(1), refers to certificates of occupancy issued prior to residential use of the unit.\"\n\nIn January 2015, the First District Court of Appeals decided that, while Costa–Hawkins allows a landlord to establish a new rental rate where the \"original occupants\" on the lease no longer permanently reside at the premises, this decontrol was not available to the landlord where a minor child, who moved in with his parents at the commencement of the lease, remained there after they had vacated. In \"Mosser Companies v. San Francisco Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Board\", the appellate court affirmed the trial court's judgment. Commentary on the case states that Costa–Hawkins, \"as written, does not permit vacancy decontrol until all lawful occupants vacate the premises.\" This, despite the landlord's argument that this constituted an intergenerational tenancy of a rent-controlled premises.\n\nThe \"Mosser\" rule was then expanded in July 2015 by the First District Court of Appeals, in \"T & A Drolapas v. San Francisco Residential Rent Stabilization and Arb. Bd.\". This decision dealt with similar facts (a landlord attempting to raise the rent of the son of original lessees who had moved out). The court first found that, as the family had moved in prior to the enactment of Costa–Hawkins, even if the son was merely a subtenant, he would have been \"grandfathered in\". Such a \"subtenant\" could be an \"original occupant\". The court, however, went on to find that he was also an original occupant under the \"Mosser\" rule, even though, unlike in \"Mosser\", there was no evidence that the landlord knew about the son when the tenancy commenced.\n\nIn the September 2015 case \"Jason Mak v. City of Berkeley Rent Stabilization Board\", the First District Court of Appeals interpreted Costa–Hawkins in the context of an evidentiary presumption in Berkeley's rent ordinance that presumes that, where a tenant has moved out after a termination notice, the tenant moved out \"because\" of the notice. One accepted way for a landlord to take possession of a rental unit is to use an \"owner move-in\" eviction, which is recognized as \"just cause\" to terminate a rent-controlled tenancy. Of course, the landlords are then required to move in and make the rental unit their residence for some minimum period (e.g., 36 continuous months). In such event, the Costa–Hawkins Act will thereafter decontrol the unit, i.e., allow it to be rented at market rate. Such decontrol is limited to \"just cause\" terminations, or where the prior tenant freely decides to moves out. The owner cannot, therefore, without \"just cause\" initiate the termination of a rent-controlled tenancy, then rent it at market rate to a new tenant.\n\nThe landlord in \"Mak\" served the tenant a notice of termination for an 'owner move-in'. But the landlord rescinded the notice, then entered into an move-out agreement with the tenant, in which the tenant recited that he was not moving out because of the prior notice. The landlord, however, did not move-in, but instead rented the premises to a new tenant. The Berkeley ordinance in question, when applied to these facts, raised the presumption that the prior tenant moved out because of the owner move-in notice. The landlords were not able to rebut this presumption when their new tenants challenged the validity of their market-rate rent. Accordingly, the vacant unit was still linked to the amount of the previous controlled rent, a situation to which the new tenants were entitled.\n\nThe housing cycle that began with the crisis of the 1970s and 1980s has apparently come full circle. A housing shortage has recurred and apparently reached the crisis stage (See: California housing shortage). In a 2014 California treatise on real estate development, the authors opined that \"[C]ommunities across California continue to confront the challenge posed by a scarcity of housing, particularly of affordable housing. In the last several decades, housing production in the state has lagged behind population and job growth, resulting in a housing deficit. ... While all citizens feel the impact of this housing shortage at some level, those with incomes at the lowest end of the economic spectrum of often bear the brunt of the shortage.\"\n\nRegarding the shortage in California, the Housing Accountability Act (HAA) was recently strengthened by amendments. Its 2016 version states: \"(a) The legislature finds and declares all of the following: ¶(1) The lack of housing, including emergency shelters, is a critical problem that threatens the economic, environmental, and social quality of life in California. ¶(2) California housing has become the most expensive in the nation. ... .\"\n\nHere the legislature aims to overcome the shortage by increasing the housing supply. The HAA imposes detailed limits on a city's power to restrict new housing construction. The recent HAA amendments, signed by Gov. Brown, were sponsored by three Democrats: Nancy Skinner, Senate – East Bay, Raul Bocanegra, Assembly – Pacoima, and Tom Daly, Assembly – Santa Ana. \n\nYet it's said that the HAA and similar bills subsequently introduced will not be enough.\n\nOn February 17, 2017, in the California Assembly, Democratic members Richard Bloom, Rob Bonta, and David Chiu introduced AB 1506, a bill that if passed would simply repeal wholesale the Costa–Hawkins Rental Housing Act of 1995. Given the vacancy decontrol and exclusions of Costa–Hawkins, its repeal would leave local governments free to control much of the residential rental pricing regulations, their reach, and similar issues. By April the bill was facing stiff opposition and bleak prospects in the legislature. It was then \"parked in committee\" until next year.\n\nOn January 11, 2018, chairperson Chiu (San Francisco) of the Assembly's Housing and Community Development Committee put Bloom's bill to a vote. It failed to pass. The two Republicans voted against. Democrats Ed Chau (Arcadia) and Jim Wood (Healdsburg) abstained. Apparently the thinking was that the statewide housing shortage gave legislative priority to increasing the construction of new housing. Perhaps a thousand proponents representing the opposing sides attended the vote.\n\nOn October 23, 2017, the Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment (ACCE) filed papers with the state Attorney General for a ballot measure which would repeal wholesale the 1995 Costa–Hawkins Act. ACCE calls the current rents across California too high, and out of control. To qualify for a November 2018 vote by the public, 365,880 signatures are said to be required.\n\nProponents announced in late April that they have enough signatures to qualify an initiative to repeal Costa Hawkins. Its supporters named it the \"Affordable Housing Act\". The initiative was Proposition 10 on the General Election ballot of November 2018.\n\nOn November 6, Prop 10 was decisively defeated, reported the \"Los Angeles Times\"; it endorsed the measure. The preliminary results with 100% of precincts reporting: 38% or 2,675,378 voted for, and 62% or 4,310,298 voted against.\n\nCarol Galante, a professor of urban policy at UC Berkeley’s Terner Center for Housing Innovation postulated that Prop 10 may have been defeated because it would have opened the door for government regulation of rents on single-family homes; because 40% of the rental housing stock nationwide consists of single-family homes (predominantly owned by private individuals), this resulted in a large number of owners with the ability to vote against this proposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827929", "title": "Cupid (Michelangelo)", "text": "Cupid (Michelangelo)\n\nThe Cupid was a sculpture created by Renaissance artist\nMichelangelo, which he artificially aged to make it look like an antique on the advice of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco. It was this sculpture which first brought him to the attention of patrons in Rome. The work is now lost.\n\nIn 1496, Michelangelo made a sleeping cupid figure and treated it with acidic earth to make it seem ancient. He then sold it to a dealer, Baldassare del Milanese, who in turn sold it to Cardinal Riario of San Giorgio who later learned of the fraud and demanded his money back. However, Michelangelo was permitted to keep his share of the money. When Michelangelo offered to take the sculpture back from Baldassarre, the latter refused, saying he would rather destroy it.\n\nThe \"Cupid\" was a significant work in establishing the reputation of the young Michelangelo, who was about 20 years old at the time. The sculpture was later donated by Cesare Borgia to Isabella d'Este, and was probably collected by Charles I of England when all the Gonzaga collections were bought and taken to London in the seventeenth century.\n\nIn 1698, the \"Cupid\" was probably destroyed in the great fire in the Palace of Whitehall, London.\n\nAnother sculpture of Cupid, in a standing position, was created for Riario's banker, Jacopo Galli.\n"}
{"id": "6689374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689374", "title": "Descent (The Outer Limits)", "text": "Descent (The Outer Limits)\n\n\"Descent\" is an episode of \"The Outer Limits\" television show. It first aired on 25 June 1999, during the fifth season.\n\nShy, unassertive researcher Dr. Arthur Zeller (Leland Orser) routinely admires a Homo erectus display in the Life Sciences department of his university and daydreams about what it would be like if he could only unlock the animal within him. It turns out his real life is that of a pushover, a \"doormat\" for his co-workers. Even a bum shakes him down regularly for \"lunch money\". All his brilliance and scientific accomplishments take a backseat to his meek personality and no one seems to take him seriously. One of his only solaces is his love of the classical works of a favored composer. He begins to try to make his dreams a reality by developing a kind of gene therapy which involves injecting himself with the genes for dominance extracted from primitive primates. This starts changing his entire personality. Zeller suffers from occasional lapses in which he reverts to the mind of a caveman and attacks his boss (John Novak), and kills and eats a dog.\n\nUnfortunately, the changes may improve his life on many levels but they are doing nothing for his love life. His affection towards his co-worker Dr. Laura White (Jenny Levine) remains unrequited and so he decides to tip the scales. During a routine flu shot session, he surreptitiously injects Laura with the genes for submissiveness. The injection has severe side effects for Laura because her basic personality is not submissive at all, so she starts to pass out. Arthur takes her to his place and attempts to attack her, but regains control of his senses and begs her for help.\n\nHe tells her what he has been up to and the shocked Laura decides to help him develop a way of reversing the process. Together they come up with an experimental antidote, but things go really bad when he reveals to Laura that he had injected her with the submissiveness genes.\n\nSeeing that he has blown his chance with her forever, Arthur escapes into the night with a batch of his syringes. Laura has a change of heart and follows him to offer her help, but it's too late for Arthur who had already injected himself with a megadose of the ape genes. She desperately tries to appeal to his humanity with his favorite classical music, but he smashes the tape player; he rejects his thinking, brilliant mind and only wants to feel the senses of his primitive self.\n\nArthur has now permanently become a caveman in both mind and physical form, finding some food out in the wilderness. However, his primitive mind is unable to comprehend that he is not in fact outdoors, but now living inside the very Homo erectus display he so admired. In her work clothes, Laura watches him in silence on the other side of the glass, then sadly turns and walks away.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13002730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13002730", "title": "Dušan T. Bataković", "text": "Dušan T. Bataković\n\nDušan T. Bataković (; 23 April 1957 – 27 June 2017) was a Serbian historian and diplomat. His specialty was modern and contemporary Serbian and Balkan history. The last post he held was that of Director of the Institute for Balkan Studies at the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nBataković graduated with a degree in history from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy in 1982. He holds an M.A. in history from the same institution (1988). He received his Ph.D. in history from the in 1997 with the thesis \"La France et la formation de la démocratie parlementaire en Serbie 1830-1914\" (France and the Formation of Parliamentary Democracy in Serbia, 1830-1914).\n\nBataković is a specialist for nineteenth- and twentieth-century Balkan history, as well as for the French-Serbian relations. He has written and published extensively on the modern and contemporary history of Serbia, in particular Kosovo and Albania–Serbia relations, focusing on nationalism, and the origins of religious and ethnic strife. Another area of his research is the impact of communism on the contemporary history of Serbia, Yugoslavia and the Balkans. Bataković writes in Serbian, English and French and his bibliography includes dozens of historical monographs, edited volumes and more than a hundred articles published in various languages.\n\nBataković is also the author of the historical TV documentary \"Crveno doba\" (The Red Epoch), which aired on Serbia's public broadcaster, RTS, in 2004. Combining testimonies of witnesses with historic narrative the film was the first to open the question of the crimes of the communist Yugoslav authorities (the \"red terror\") against their political and class enemies in post-World War II Serbia and Montenegro (1944-1947).\n\nIn October 2005 Bataković became Director of the Institute for Balkan Studies of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and editor-in-chief of the Institute’s annual \"Balcanica\" journal as well as of its \"Special editions\". In October 2008 he was elected president of the Serbian Committee of AIESEE (\"Association Internationale d'Etudes du Sud-Est Europeen\").\n\nIn 2010 Bataković was elected fellow of the World Academy of Art and Science(WAAS).\n\nParallel to his academic life, Dušan T. Bataković has also pursued a career in politics and diplomacy. As the president of the Council for Democratic Changes in Serbia (a pro-democracy NGO), he campaigned against Slobodan Milošević \nin the late 1990s. From 2001 to 2005 he served as Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (later Serbia and Montenegro) to the Hellenic Republic. In July 2005 he became Advisor for political issues to the President of Serbia Boris Tadić. In that capacity he became a member, in November 2005, of the Serbian negotiating team at the UN-sponsored talks on the future status of the province of Kosovo in Vienna. He was a head of the Serbian Delegation at the International Court of Justice, regarding the advisory opinion on Kosovo status (2009-2011).\n\nBataković was appointed Ambassador of Serbia to Canada in July 2007 and Ambassador of Serbia in Paris, France in January 2009, where he took office in March 2009 and has completed his mandate in December 2012.\n\nBataković was reelected Director of the Institute for Balkan Studies of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in February 2013.\n\nIn 2006, a study by Frederick Anscombe looked at issues surrounding scholarship on Kosovo which noted that in the 1980s and 1990s Dušan Bataković from a nationalistic perspective published nationalist works on Kosovo that gained generous support. Of those were works such as \"The Kosovo Chronicles\" (1992) and \"Kosovo, la spirals de la haine\" (1993) and in all several of those works have been translated into other languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1781619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1781619", "title": "Ecological anthropology", "text": "Ecological anthropology\n\nEcological anthropology is a sub-field of anthropology and is defined as the \"study of cultural adaptations to environments\". The sub-field is also defined as, \"the study of relationships between a population of humans and their biophysical environment\". The focus of its research concerns \"how cultural beliefs and practices helped human populations adapt to their environments, and how people used elements of their culture to maintain their ecosystems\". Ecological anthropology developed from the approach of cultural ecology, and it provided a conceptual framework more suitable for scientific inquiry than the cultural ecology approach. Research pursued under this approach aims to study a wide range of human responses to environmental problems.\n\nIn the 1960s, ecological anthropology first appeared as a response to cultural ecology, a sub-field of anthropology led by Julian Steward. Steward focused on studying different modes of subsistence as methods of energy transfer and then analyzed how they determine other aspects of culture. Culture became the unit of analysis. The first ecological anthropologists explored the idea that humans as ecological populations should be the unit of analysis, and culture became the means by which that population alters and adapts to the environment. It was characterised by systems theory, functionalism and negative feedback analysis.\n\nBenjamin S. Orlove has noted that the development of ecological anthropology has occurred in stages. \"Each stage is a reaction to the previous one rather than merely an addition to it\". The first stage concerns the work of Julian Steward and Leslie White, the second stage is titled 'neofunctionalism' and/or 'neoevolutionism', and the third stage is termed 'processual ecological anthropology'. During the first stage, two different models were developed by both White and Steward. \"The distinction is not as rigid as some critics have made it out to be, White's models of cultural evolution were unilinear and monocausal, whereas Steward admitted a number of different lines of cultural development and a number of different causal factors. During the second stage, it was noted that the later group agreed with Steward and White, while the other disagreed. 'Neoevolutionists' borrowed from the work of Charles Darwin. The general approach suggested that \"evolution is progressive and leads towards new and better forms in succeeding periods\". 'Neofunctionalists' \"see the social organization and culture of specific populations as functional adaptations which permit the populations to exploit their environments successfully without exceeding their carrying capacity\". 'Processual ecological anthropology' is noted to be new. Studies based on this approach \"seek to overcome the split in the second stage of ecological anthropology between excessively short and long time scales\". The approach more specifically, examines \"shifts and changes in individual and group activities, and they focus on the mechanism by which behavior and external constraints influence each other\".\n\nOne of the leading practitioners within this sub-field of anthropology was Roy Rappaport. He delivered many outstanding works on the relationship between culture and the natural environment in which it grows, especially concerning the role of ritual in the processual relationship between the two. He conducted the majority, if not all, of his fieldwork amongst a group known as the Maring, who inhabit an area in the highlands of Papua New Guinea.\n\nPatricia K. Townsend's work highlights the difference between ecological anthropology and environmental anthropology. In her view, some anthropologists use both terms in an interchangeable fashion. She states that, \"Ecological anthropology will refer to one particular type of research in environmental anthropology – field studies that describe a single ecosystem including a human population\". Studies conducted under this sub-field \"frequently deal with a small population of only a few hundred people such as a village or neighbourhood\".\n\nStudies under the discipline are concerned with the ethnoecologies of indigenous populations. Due to various factors associated with globalization, indigenous ethnoecologies are facing increasing challenges such as, \"migration, media, and commerce spread people, institutions, information, and technology\". \"In the face of national and international incentives to exploit and degrade, ethnological systems that once preserved local and regional environments increasingly are ineffective or irrelevant\". Threats also exist of \"commercial logging, industrial pollution, and the imposition of external management systems\" on their local ecosystems. These threats to indigenous ways of life are a familiar occurrence in the field of anthropology. Conrad Phillip Kottak states that, \"Today's ecological anthropology , aka environmental anthropology, attempts not only to understand but also to find solutions to environmental problems\". The discipline's one of the approaches for finding such solutions is contemplating which aspects of human nature lead to environmental degradations. Such features of human nature can include a desire for technological innovations, aspiration for higher social status, and preoccupied or biased inclination to social justice. Another approach to deal with contemporary climate issue is applying a norm of traditional ecological knowledge. Long-term ecological knowledge of an indigenous group can provide valuable insight into adaptation strategies, community-based monitoring, and dynamics between culturally important species and human.\n\nFrom the beginning various scholars criticised the discipline, saying it inherently was too focused on static equilibrii which ignored change, that it used circular reasoning, and that it oversimplified systems. One of the current criticisms is that, in its original form, ecological anthropology relies upon cultural relativism as the norm. However, in today's world, there are few cultures that are isolated enough to live in a true culturally relative state. Instead, cultures are being influenced and changed by media, governments, NGOs, businesses, etc. In response, the discipline has seen a shift towards applied ecological anthropology, political ecology and environmental anthropology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8597417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8597417", "title": "El Zotz", "text": "El Zotz\n\nEl Zotz () is a Mesoamerican archaeological site of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization, located in the Petén Basin region around west of the major center of Tikal and approximately west of Uaxactun. It is so called because of the large number of bats living in caves in the nearby cliffs (the original Mayan name was Pa'Chan). The site is located within the San Miguel la Palotada National Park bordering the Tikal National Park in the present-day department of Petén, Guatemala. It is a large Classic Period site and contains many unexcavated mounds and ruins.\n\nEl Zotz shared its Emblem Glyph with the powerful city of Yaxchilan in Chiapas, Mexico, and it is likely that the Yaxchilan royal dynasty had its origin in El Zotz.\n\nThe tallest temple structure is approximately 45 m (148 ft) high and is known as \"El Diablo\" (the devil), allegedly because the sides of the temple are dangerously steep. Conservation work has been carried out here by the University of San Carlos of Guatemala, including the construction of a rudimentary campsite for tourists. The area has caves and swamps and is a protected biotope. It is known for the hundreds of thousands of bats that fly out from under the cliffs at sunset.\n\nThe name \"El Zotz\" may have been chosen by Marco Antonio Bailey when he visited the site in 1977, with the name appearing on the map he produced. The site had previously been named \"Dos Aguadas\" (Two Springs) and Bailey may have changed the name to distinguish the site from other places in the region bearing the same name. \"Zotz\" and its variations mean \"bat\" in a variety of Mayan languages, for example \"sotz' \" in K'iche' Maya, \"zodz\" in Yucatec Maya and \"suts' \" in Ch'ol Maya. The new name derives from the fact that the El Diablo complex possesses a cave that is the habitat of an enormous quantity of the animals.\n\nThe site is located within the municipality of San José in the department of Petén. El Zotz falls within the San Miguel La Palotada biotope, a part of the Maya Biosphere Reserve that is bordered on the east by the Tikal National Park and surrounded on all other sides by designated multiple-use zones of the Reserve.\n\nThe site is southwest of Bejucal, another Maya site that was subsidiary to El Zotz.\n\nEl Zotz is a medium-sized site covering an area of perhaps that includes a variety of large and small architectural remains in a style typical of the Early Classic. The site is crossed by low ridges that run from southwest to northeast. The maximum height of the ridges is approximately above mean sea level, with the troughs between them having an elevation of about . The local bedrock is limestone. The site overlooks a valley occupied by seasonal swampland.\n\nThe site is covered with tropical moist forest and includes areas of seasonal inundated forest. The average annual temperature is with the actual temperature varying between and . Average annual rainfall varies between with a dry season lasting from January to April.\n\nLocal wildlife includes the following species, some of which are highly endangered: jaguar (\"Panthera onca\"), puma (\"Felis concolor\"), ocelot (\"Leopardus wiedii\"), Baird's tapir (\"Tapirus bairdii\"), red brocket deer (\"Mazama americana\"), howler monkey (\"Alouatta pigra\"), red snook (\"Petenia splendida\"), Morelet's Crocodile (\"Crocodylus moreletii\") and the ocellated turkey (\"Agriocharis ocellata\").\n\nAlthough Preclassic ceramic fragments are abundant at El Zotz, the site appears to have undergone significant expansion during the 6th century AD, in the Early Classic, the location of the site together with its architectural style suggest that this may have been due to the influence of the important city of Tikal. The apogee of El Zotz appears to have been brief, spanning about one hundred years during the later Early Classic and the early part of the Late Classic, experiencing an intense burst of construction activity including the building of palaces and pyramids, followed by a rapid decline.\n\nThe ruling dynasty of El Zotz appears to have originated at Bejucal and to later have relocated its capital to El Zotz. The reading of hieroglyphic texts associated with the site suggest that El Zotz was founded by enemies of Tikal in order to exploit a period of weakness of the latter city. The city possessed the same Emblem Glyph as Yaxchilan on the Mexican side of the Usumacinta River and it is supposed that the royal dynasty of that city had its origin in El Zotz.\n\nA stela from Bejucal indicates that the Teotihuacan-linked general Siyaj K'ak' (\"Fire is Born\") was the overlord (yajaw) of the king of El Zotz. This general was implicated in a major Teotihuacan-backed military intervention in the central Petén during the 4th century AD. A bowl found in Bagaces in Costa Rica bears a hieroglyphic text indicating that it was a gift from the king of El Zotz to the king of El Perú, a city west of El Zotz. This, in combination with other texts, indicates that El Zotz was subordinate to El Perú. El Perú was in turn a vassal of the great city of Calakmul, the sworn enemy of Tikal, and a jade plaque from a royal tomb at Calakmul refers to an event at El Zotz.\n\nEl Zotz appears to have passed through a period of renewed prosperity during the Late Classic and the city would have had close interactions with its near neighbours, such as Tikal, Uaxactun, Motul de San José and El Tintal. El Zotz appears to have been particularly densely inhabited during the Terminal Classic. Although El Zotz appears to have received strong influences from Tikal, it appears to have taken its place in the larger political rivalry between Tikal and Calakmul and to have aligned itself with Tikal's great enemy in order to gain local advantage. When Tikal recovered from its misfortunes it appears that El Zotz was unable to survive its attentions.\n\nHostile relations between El Zotz and its huge neighbour Tikal are evidenced on the ground by an earthwork of unknown date that served to mark the territorial division between the two polities. In the 8th century AD, according to a text at Tikal, El Zotz and Naranjo were jointly engaged in battle against Tikal. This battle took place on 4 February 744. The last known hieroglyphic inscription to refer to El Zotz describes the city as being the target of an attack by Tikal.\n\nThe earliest visits to the site were carried out in response to reports of archaeological looting. Archaeologist Marco Antonio Bailey visited the site in 1977 on behalf of the recently founded Departamento de Monumentos Prehispánicos (DEMOPRE - Department of Prehispanic Monuments) of the Instituto de Antropología e Historia (Institute of Anthropology and History), this was the first official visit to the site on behalf of the Guatemalan government. Bailey did not produce any written report but he did map the site. Although he George F. Andrews briefly visited the site in 1978, with his written report appearing in the magazine \"Mexicon\" in 1986. This was the first mention of the site in print. The Proyecto Nacional Tikal briefly investigated the site in May 1983, although its report was not published until 20 years later, in 2006.\n\nThe Departamento de Monumentos Prehispánicos remapped the site in 1995, with the new map being published in 2001. The Tikal Project's Programa de Arqueología Regional (Regional Archaeology Programme) sunk some test pits at the site in 2000 but the results had still not been published as of 2006. A further survey was undertaken during two weeks of January 2006 by the Departamento de Monumentos Prehispanicos in conjunction with Archaeologist Stephen D. Houston and Brown University.\n\nThe Denver Art Museum has returned a carved wooden lintel stolen from the site, one of the few such artifacts in existence. It dates to 550–650 A.D. and was taken from Temple I, the northern pyramid in the main plaza, in the 1960s. It shows a son of a ruler from Tikal. It is now in National Archeology Museum in Guatemala City.\n\nA three-year investigation was begun at El Zotz in May 2008. Later studies in the late-2010's using LIDAR, have revealed a far larger site than previously envisaged. The studies revealed houses, palaces, elevated highways, and defensive fortifications. Ithaca College archaeologist, Thomas Garrison, says he believes the scale and population density has been \"grossly underestimated and could in fact be three or four times greater than previously thought\".\n\nAccording to Global Heritage Fund and World Monuments Fund, El Zotz is endangered by insufficient management, looting, deforestation, and natural disaster, as well as general threats (agriculture, poaching, forest-fires, and illegal extraction) to the Maya Biosphere.\n\nEl Zotz has at least two principal ceremonial centres. The main ceremonial centre lies within the site core while the second of these is in an area known as El Diablo. The architecture at the site is massive and the stonework of excellent quality, which has undoubtedly helped in the preservation of the structures at the site. The structures were packed with rubble and mortar together with layers of clay, this last element likely brought from the lowland troughs near the site. The superstructures of the buildings at the site were built with large well-finished limestone blocks sealed with mortar, these were then covered with stucco and painted in a variety of colours, some traces of pigment still remain. Rooms within the superstructures were narrow and supported vaulted ceilings.\n\nFour \"chultunob\" were found cut into the limestone bedrock of the plazas at the site. These are artificial subterranean chambers that were probably used to store water.\n\nThe site core is set out around a Central Plaza bordered by structures on the north and west sides. The Acropolis lies to the north of the Central Plaza with the East Plaza lying directly east of the Acropolis. The Plaza of the Five Temples lies to the west of the Central Plaza and the South Plaza lies to the south of both. The site core lies upon flatter terrain at the site, close to the two springs. The Proyecto Nacional Tikal carried out rescue works in the site core in 1983.\n\nThe site core of El Zotz contains 49 buildings divided between four main groups.\n\nThe East Group or Group 1 has various structures laid out around a wide plaza, including two mortuary pyramids on the north side.\n\nThe East Causeway is a sacbe that begins near Temple 1 in the Central Group and runs eastwards to the East Group.\n\nStructure M7-1 is a high temple pyramid with a base measuring . The temple shrine is fashioned from well-finished stones and is of a similar style to that of Tikal Temple I. The pyramid has two smaller mounds attached to it at the base, forming a triadic temple group. Both of the smaller mounds have been damaged by looters' trenches. A wooden lintel was illegally removed from the temple in the late 1960s and sold to the Denver Art Museum in the United States, provoking the first official visits and explorations of the site. The looted lintel was returned to Guatemala in 1998. The lintel was carved from five planks of sapodilla wood, forming a panel long and wide. The lintel is incomplete but depicts a standing human figure holding a ceremonial staff. The figure is surrounded by hieroglyphic writing on both sides and above it. The style of dress of the figure has been used to date the lintel to the late 6th century AD.\n\nStructure M7-2 is located across the plaza from Structure M7-1. Its base measures {convert|21|by|33|m|ft)) and it is high. The pyramid was probably accessed from the south, plaza, side. No clear evidence remains of any superstructure and the east side of the temple is damaged by two looters' trenches.\n\nThe Central Plaza is bordered on the north by the acropolis, on the south by the ballcourt and on the west by a variety of low platforms and pyramids. Six stelae and an altar were placed in the Central Plaza, the stelae are mostly plain monuments arranged in two north-south rows, the westernmost containing four monuments and the parallel eastern row containing only two.\n\nThe Acropolis is an elite residence, probably a palace, laid out around three patios and encompassing Structures L7-1 through to L7-10 and including some large buildings among them. Eighteen looters' pits have been counted within the Acropolis.\n\nStela 1 is a carved limestone monument immediately south of Temple 1, it is the northernmost of the two stelae in the eastern row of monuments in the Central Plaza. It is the only sculpted stela currently known from the site and is carved on all four sides. The front of the monument has a human figure facing to the left, the back of the stela has a hieroglyphic panel consisting of 39 glyphic blocks. Ceramic fragments dating to the Late Classic were found near the stela, they have been interpreted as the result of ritual activity.\n\nTemple 1 (or Structure L7-11) is a large pyramid with a corbel-vaulted superstructure situated on the northeast side of the Central Plaza. It is the principal structure at the site and has been heavily looted. The structure is a high funerary temple measuring at the base. In 1989 the Proyecto Nacional Tikal undertook rescue works at the temple, installing replacement lintels, sealing some of the chambers and closing the more dangerous looters' tunnels.\n\nThe Ballcourt is located on the south side of the Central Plaza. Considering the massive architecture at El Zotz, the ballcourt is unusually small and appears to have been more symbolic than practical.\n\nThe Plaza of the Five Temples is a wide plaza flanked on the north and south sides by two pyramids of similar height, while a long triadic temple complex occupies the east side of the plaza. The name of the plaza derives from the temples that line the plaza and the complex resembles the Plaza of the Seven Temples at Tikal and is also similar to architecture at Yaxha. Two plain stelae occupy the centre of the plaza, three more are placed in front of the temples on the east side of the plaza, together with an altar.\n\nStructure L7-18 is a small pyramid on the west side of the Central Plaza. It has a base measuring and with a height of . It has been damaged by two looters' pits, one of which was sunk into the summit resulting in serious structural damage and exposing a vaulted chamber with an intact doorjamb on its north side. The corbel vault and parts of the walls still retain their original stucco covering, the remains of which have revealed that the chamber was originally painted red, possibly together with other colours. Structure L7-18 has been dated to the Early Classic based on its architectural style. A looted tomb was found under the temple, it was roughly rectangular in shape with a curved roof, similar to tombs at the site of Río Azul.\n\nStructure L8-13 is the north pyramid on the Plaza of the Five Temples. The pyramid stands high and measures at the base. It still has traces of a wooden lintel supported on thick door jambs. One of the jambs is marked with prehispanic graffiti. The pyramid once contained a royal tomb but it has been completely looted. The tomb was carved directly from the limestone bedrock under the pyramid, it is thought to have been the source of various fine quality ceramic vessels painted with images of \"wayob\" (spirit companions).\n\nThe South Causeway begins at the southeastern extreme of the Plaza of the Five Temples and runs south to the South Group.\n\nThe South Group consists of a large acropolis-type complex laid out around an internal patio. The group consists of ten or more structures built on a raised platform and covered by dense vegetation.\n\nA further complex was identified by Bailey when he mapped the site. It consisted of a rectangular platform measuring located to the southeast of the site core. The platform supports a tall pyramid in its centre. Although appearing on Bailey's plan, in 2006 the complex had not yet been investigated on the ground.\n\nEl Diablo is located about west of the site core, it is the smaller of the two known main ceremonial centres at El Zotz. The name \"El Diablo\" means \"the Devil\" in Spanish. It is situated in a defensive position on the highest outcrop at El Zotz and is visible from Temple IV at Tikal. The El Diablo complex contains the cave containing the large quantity of bats that gave rise to the name of the site. The El Diablo complex is believed to date to the Late Classic.\n\nThe El Diablo hill was artificially reshaped with the addition of terraces, upon which an acropolis was built that consisted of large platforms laid out around at least two plazas. Looters' tunnels have exposed decorated substructures within the El Diablo acropolis, which have been tentatively dated to the Early Classic. The main plaza of El Diablo is small when compared to the plazas of the site core and the architecture is less impressive.\n\nThe discovery of a royal tomb in the El Diablo complex was announced in July 2010. The tomb is believed to contain the remains of a king named as Chak who ruled in the late 4th century AD. The ruler was aged in his fifties or sixties at the time of his death and was interred with the remains of six sacrificed children aged between 1 and 5 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "33832430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33832430", "title": "Fuck-me shoes", "text": "Fuck-me shoes\n\nFuck-me shoes, alternatively fuck-me boots, is a slang term for women's high-heeled shoes that exaggerate a sexual image. The term can be applied to any women's shoes that are worn with the intention of arousing others. It is sometimes used to imply condemnation against the women who choose to wear them or in a misogynistic fashion toward the women who wear them.\n\nThe term is similar in meaning to \"kinky boots\", although typically \"kinky boots\" refer more specifically to boots suited to a particular fetish.\n\nThe phrase possibly originated in the United States, where two similar terms are used: fuck-you shoes' implying a disregard for convention or propriety, or 'fuck-off shoes' where 'fuck-off' means both outsize and aggressive\". Tight trousers were called \"come fuck-me's\" as listed in a 1972 British dictionary of slang, while a 1974 book is cited as making a reference to a person wearing \"a pair of fabulous 1940s-Joan Crawford-fuck-me's\". The song \"We are the Dead\" from David Bowie's 1974 \"Diamond Dogs\" album mentions \"fuck-me pumps.\"\n\nProminent feminist Germaine Greer brought what had been an \"obscure\" term to more mainstream notoriety when she used it in 1995. Greer used the term in referring to British journalist Suzanne Moore's alleged \"hair bird's-nested all over the place, fuck-me shoes and three fat inches of cleavage\". Greer made the remark in response to a column Moore had written about Greer in \"The Guardian\", where Moore had mistakenly repeated an incorrect rumor that Greer had a hysterectomy as a voluntary decision to have herself sterilized.\n\nGreer was also quoted during the 1990s as criticizing a number of women writers that she termed \"lifestyle feminists\" who were, in her view, espousing feminism at nothing more than a superficial level. Moore's response was that her fashion choices were dictated by her own tastes and not to please men: \"as someone who grew up with punk and Madonna, I take it for granted that women dress to please themselves and not men...\" \n\nMoore has said her footwear is \"not worn just for the benefit of men\", implying that the intention is twofold, to please both her and observers, although she also says \"Most of the pleasure [of buying shoes] involves a private fantasy that begins with me and ends at my feet. Men don't get a look in\".\n\nThe incident, and the term, received coverage in British media and beyond, and the term has become associated with Greer in popular culture. Greer had been denouncing stiletto shoes as symbols of women's subordination as early as 1971. She continues to use the phrase \"fuck me shoes\" in public speaking when discussing gender and clothing styles society deems appropriate.\n\nThe expression was further popularized when British jazz singer Amy Winehouse released the single \"Pumps\" (originally titled \"Fuck Me Pumps\" on her 2003 album \"Frank\"), a song about gold diggers.\n\nIn January 2011, in a forum with teenaged students in Cartagena, Colombia, Greer noticed the popularity of silicone breast implants in the audience. She asked students why they thought women tennis players wore skirts, and asked why a young woman would choose to wear stiletto shoes: \"So you think the shoes are her fetish? ... I call them fuck-me shoes\", she said, \"because you can't walk in them but you can wear them in bed.\"\n\nThe underlying conflict arises from the question of what is considered an appropriate way for women to present their bodies in public spaces. Some feminists have come to view criticisms of fashion choices to be what they term \"slut-shaming\", an action they view as misogynist, even when coming from other women. The development of the SlutWalk protest demonstrations against dress codes is influenced by this position. \n\nWhen punk fashion was on the rise during the late 1970s, young women consciously played with the symbolism inherent in their accessorizing, mixing choices that created a jarring visual clash; leather was combined with lace, steel spikes with velvet, stiletto heels with heavy ankle chains. The result was to exaggerate a look of sexual aggression, turning fuck me' shoes into signifiers of 'fuck you. The punk influenced youth counterculture continues with this trend, part of the wider trend of fetish fashion.\n\n "}
{"id": "21026235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21026235", "title": "Functional generative description", "text": "Functional generative description\n\nFunctional generative description (FGD) is a linguistic framework developed at Charles University in Prague since the 1960s by a team led by Petr Sgall. Based on the dependency grammar formalism, it is a stratificational grammar formalism that treats the sentence as a system of interlinked layers: phonological, morphematical, morphonological, analytical (surface syntax) and tectogrammatical (deep syntax). Continuing the tradition of Prague School, special attention is paid to the phenomenon of topic–focus articulation.\n\nThe Prague Dependency Treebank (PDT) is a treebank consisting of a subset of the Czech National Corpus annotated along the lines of FGD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57413466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57413466", "title": "Félix-Marie Abel", "text": "Félix-Marie Abel\n\nFélix-Marie Abel (December 29, 1878 – March 24, 1953) was a French archaeologist, a geographer, and a professor at the École Biblique in Jerusalem. A Dominican priest, he was one of the most prominent bible scholars in the end of Ottoman era and British Mandate era. His work \"remains even today the authority on the Greek sources for Palestine\", according to Benedict T. Viviano.\n\nAbel was born in Saint-Uze, in the Drôme department, on December 29, 1878. He was ordained on February 1, 1897 at Saint-Maximin. In 1897 he arrived in Jerusalem to study in the École Biblique founded by Marie-Joseph Lagrange; Lagrange had recruited him (and ) to help him get \"a clear grasp of physical environment and the cultural framework of the Bible\". Abel graduated in 1900. In 1905 he became a professor at the École Biblique and served there until his death in 1953.\n\nHe published a number of studies in various disciplines—linguistics, geography, and history. His \"Grammaire du Grec Biblique\" is a grammar of Biblical Greek (1927). Preceded by a volume on Palestine in the Guide Bleu series of travel guides, his \"Géographie de la Palestine\" (Paris, 1933–1938) treats the political, historical and physical geography from the most remote times until the Byzantine period. The book has two volumes, the first a physical geography, and the second a historical geography. The study supports, for instance, the theory of William F. Lynch that the Essenes lived in a set of small caves directly above Ein Gedi (which Lynch had visited in 1848), a theory later discredited by scholarship. The topographical quality of his work was quite influential: according to Jerome Murphy-O'Connor, \"The ten maps he prepared have served as the prime, but often unacknowledged, source of much subsequent topographical identification\". In 1952 he published \"Histoire de la Palestine depuis la conquête d'Alexandre jusqu'à l'invasion arabe\", a comprehensive history. He also edited and translated the Book of Joshua for the École Biblique's edition of the bible, translated the Books of the Maccabees and identified several battle sites of the Maccabean Revolt and other places that related to Hasmonean dynasty.\n\nWith Louis-Hugues Vincent he published a number of works, the most famous of which are the three volumes of topographic-archaeological-historical studies on the city of Jerusalem. They worked together also at the excavations of Emmaus, on research on the Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron, and at the Church of the Nativity. With Savignac he argued that archeological remains beneath the St. Stephen's Basilica, Jerusalem, which houses the École Biblique, were those of the basilica built by Empress Eudocia in the 5th century CE, but not that this was also the site of the stoning of Saint Stephen the Protomartyr.\n\n"}
{"id": "51320158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51320158", "title": "God's Own Drunk", "text": "God's Own Drunk\n\n\"God's Own Drunk\" is a monologue by Lord Buckley that musicians have since adapted into different types of songs; most notably, Jimmy Buffett, who first recorded his rendition for \"Living and Dying in ¾ Time\" and has since released a single of a live performance in 2011. Buffett's version was a concert staple and even regarded as his theme before \"Margaritaville\"'s popularity, until he was forced to stop playing it after being sued by Buckley's son, Dick Buckley Jr., for copyright infringement.\n\nBuckley's monologue and Buffett's rendition both tell a story in the first-person of a recovering alcoholic who finds himself taking care of his brother-in-law's still, eventually giving into his temptation and drinking its whiskey. In the midst of his bender, he crosses paths with a bear; who, from the narrator's drunken perspective, is a male Kodiak about 16 feet (Buckley) or 19 feet (Buffett) tall. The narrator's fearlessness interests the bear, and out of mutual curiosity, the narrator gives the bear some whiskey and names him \"Buddy\". The two drink the night away, and the narrator awakens to find that both Buddy and the still are gone; implying that the bear liked the whiskey so much that he stole the still.\n\nAlthough Buffett did not officially record his rendition until 1974, he had been performing it since 1966 after two friends played him Buckley's 1959 Hollywood recording of \"Lord Buckley in Concert\". Buffett and his friends were living in New Orleans at the time and were playing at a bar where the performers were required to do a rendition of Buckley's \"God's Own Drunk\".\n\nIn the \"Names and Faces\" section in newspapers all over the country on August 30, 1983, the following story ran: \n\nThough few details of the lawsuit are known, it inspired a song titled \"The Lawyer and the Asshole\". Because \"God's Own Drunk\" was a concert staple before the lawsuit, the song's sudden absence from the setlist was a disappointment to fans, so Buffett played \"The Lawyer and the Asshole\" instead, to explain why \"God's Own Drunk\" couldn't and wouldn't be performed.\n\nBuffett had been performing \"God's Own Drunk\" on an occasional basis since learning it in 1966, but the song became a concert staple after its recording in 1974 and remained a standard until 1978, to which he only performed it on a frequent basis because it did not mesh well with the softer sound he was promoting with \"Son of a Son of a Sailor\". A live version was released on \"You Had to Be There\", capturing the crowd's demand for its performance and its acclaim when Buffett finally played it after teasing some fans before the preceding song \"Grapefruit—Juicy Fruit\". By 1983, when Dick Buckley Jr. sued Buffett for copyright infringement, the song was dropped completely.\n\nWhen Buffett was obligated to stop performing it during the lawsuit, he instead occasionally played \"The Lawyer and the Asshole\" as a substitute, with the earliest known performance being in Telluride, Colorado on August 27, 1983 and the last being November 16, 1986 in Gainesville, Florida. Sometimes, in lieu of playing \"God's Own Drunk\" due to the litigation, he would heave a boxful of little \"Buddy Bears\" to the audience or did trivia about the song, where he would ask the questions and the crowd would shout the answer.\n\nThe outcome of the court case is unknown, but Buffett had brought \"God's Own Drunk\" back to the setlist in 1988 and since then has only played it rarely. Aside from the \"You Had to Be There\" performance, other notable live versions are: at the Palladium on March 14, 1980 (captured on \"Ringling Ringling\"); in George, WA on August 22, 1992, with several references to the Gorge Amphitheatre; at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Illinois on July 23, 2011, using the Chicago Bears as a plot device for the Kodiak bear in the song, going on to release this performance as a single; and its most recent performance at the Riverbend Music Theater on June 21, 2016.\n\nIn Buffett's studio take, one of the types of drunks listed off is \"Reggie Younging\", a reference to Reggie Young.\n\nIn the song \"Semi-True Story\" from \"Beach House on the Moon\", Buffett sings about the day in 1974 when he recorded \"God's Own Drunk\".\n\nMike Harding does a faithful rendition of Lord Buckley's monologue, using it as the title track of his 1989 album.\n"}
{"id": "53942254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53942254", "title": "Guaytán", "text": "Guaytán\n\nGuaytán is an archaeological site of the Maya civilization in the municipality of San Agustín Acasaguastlán, in the department of El Progreso, in Guatemala. It is the most important pre-Columbian archaeological site of the middle drainage of the Motagua River.\n\nThe site is located south of San Agustín Acasaguastlán, and to the north of the Motagua River, built on both banks of the Lato River. The site was inhabited from the Late Preclassic Period (c. 250 BC – 250 AD) to the Late Classic Period (c. 300 – 900 AD). The city controlled an important source of jadeite.\n\nThe site is distributed in a number of groups on both sides of the Lato River, but hasn't been completely mapped. The principal groups include the Acropolis, El Castillo, Carrillo, La Escuela, and La Estela.\n\nGuaytán features an unusual Late to Terminal Classic ballcourt with an attached temple. Fragments of Classic period codices have been recovered from tombs at the site.\n\nA number of zoomorphic sculptures have been recovered from Guaytán; five of these are believed to represent the heads of snakes and have been labelled as Monuments 1 through to 5. Although they have been described as ballcourt markers, they may have been set into the corners of buildings. Monument 6 represents a seated monkey with its arms curving around its front, with its left leg behind them. Only the right eye has been carved into the monument.\n\nGuaytán features a number of large cists and extensive crypts containing multiple burials. Most were found under the remains of large structures that formed closed plazas. The crypts were built with large slabs of stone to form chambers that measured approximately high. The largest slabs were set to form vaulted roofs to the chambers. A tomb under Structure 24 features small niches that contained vessels left as funerary offerings. Some of the crypts contained an antechamber used for additional burials.\n\nTomb 3 has a chamber that measures wide by long, accessed by a long passage with a width of and a height of .\n\nDuring the Late Preclassic, Guaytán was densely populated, although buildings were generally of perishable materials. At the time, the site had contacts with the Guatemalan Highlands and with the Pacific coastal lowlands. Guaytán was one of two sites (the other being La Vega de Cobán, in Zacapa) that controlled most of the trade passing along the Motagua River. In the Early Classic, the city underwent a population explosion and there was contact with the great metropolis of Teotihuacan, in the distant Valley of Mexico. By the Late Classic, contacts extended to the Petén lowlands, the Yucatán Peninsula, and the western portions of Honduras and El Salvador.\n\nThe site was first reported in 1926 by archaeologist Gustavo Espinoza, although no serious investigations were undertaken until 1943. Projects to partially map the site were undertaken in 2001 and 2013.\n"}
{"id": "462675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462675", "title": "Imprint (trade name)", "text": "Imprint (trade name)\n\nAn imprint of a publisher is a trade name under which it publishes a work. A single publishing company may have multiple imprints, often using the different names as brands to market works to various demographic consumer segments.\n\nAn imprint of a publisher is a trade name—a name that a business uses for trading commercial products or services—under which a work is published. Imprints typically have a defining character or mission. In some cases, the diversity results from the takeover of smaller publishers (or parts of their business) by a larger company. In the case of Barnes & Noble, imprints have been used to facilitate the venture of a bookseller into publishing.\n\nIn the video game industry, some game companies operate various publishing labels with Take-Two Interactive credited as \"the father of label\" in their case the labels are wholly owned incorporated entities with their own publishing and distributing, sales and marketing infrastructure and management teams and their own respective subsidiaries also incorporated (Rockstar North Limited, 2K Vegas, Inc.). This model have influenced rivals including Activision Blizzard, Zenimax, Electronic Arts from 2008-2018, Warner Bros. Interactive, and Koei Tecmo. Take-Two have had such model in place since 1997-1998, and is seen as a \"a game holding company with autonomous game publishing and development subsidiaries\"\nIndependently-owned game publishers like Devolver Digital also use the word label to describe itself.\n\nA single publishing company may have multiple imprints, with the different imprints often used by the publisher to market works to different demographic consumer segments. For example, the objective of Viking—an imprint of the Penguin Group—is \"[t]o publish a strictly limited list of good nonfiction, such as biography, history and works on contemporary affairs, and distinguished fiction with some claim to permanent importance rather than ephemeral popular interest.\"\n"}
{"id": "16683256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16683256", "title": "Ingressive sound", "text": "Ingressive sound\n\nIn phonetics, ingressive sounds are sounds by which the airstream flows inward through the mouth or nose. The three types of ingressive sounds are lingual ingressive or velaric ingressive (from the tongue and the velum), glottalic ingressive (from the glottis), and pulmonic ingressive (from the lungs).\n\nThe opposite of an ingressive sound is an egressive sound, by which the air stream is created by pushing air out through the mouth or nose. The majority of sounds in most languages, such as vowels, are both pulmonic and egressive.\n\nLingual ingressive, or velaric ingressive, describes an airstream mechanism in which a sound is produced by closing the vocal tract at two places of articulation in the mouth, rarifying the air in the enclosed space by lowering the tongue and then releasing both closures. Such sounds are called \"clicks\".\n\nGlottal ingressive is the term generally applied to the implosive consonants, which actually use a mixed glottalic ingressive–pulmonic egressive airstream. True glottalic ingressives are quite rare and are called \"voiceless implosives\" or \"reverse ejectives.\"\n\nPulmonic ingressive describes ingressive sounds in which the airstream is created by the lungs and are generally paralinguistic. They may be found as phonemes, words, and entire phrases on all continents and in genetically-unrelated languages, most frequently in sounds for agreement and backchanneling.\n\nPulmonic ingressive sounds are extremely rare outside paralinguistics. A pulmonic ingressive phoneme was found in the ritual language Damin; its last speaker died in the 1990s. ǃXóõ has a series of nasalized click consonants in which the nasal airstream is pulmonic ingressive. Ladefoged & Maddieson (1996:268) state, \"This ǃXóõ click is probably unique among the sounds of the world's languages that, even in the middle of a sentence, it may have ingressive pulmonic airflow.\"\n\nIn the extensions to the International Phonetic Alphabet, ingressive sounds are indicated with so the Norwegian backchanneling particles \"ja\" and \"nei\" would be transcribed and .\n\nLaver uses instead for and .\n\nIngressive speech sounds are produced while the speaker breathes in, in contrast to most speech sounds, which are produced as the speaker breathes out. The air that is used to voice the speech is drawn in rather than pushed out. Ingressive speech can be glottalic, velaric, or pulmonic.\n\nIngressive sounds occur in many languages, being frequently associated with Scandinavian languages despite being a common phenomenon. Most words that are subject to ingressive speech are feedback words (\"yes, no\") or very short or primal (a cry of pain or sobbing). It sometimes occurs in rapid counting to maintain a steady air flow throughout a long series of unbroken sounds. It is also very common in animals, frogs, dogs, and cats (purring).\n\nIn English, ingressive sounds include when one says \"Huh!\" (a gasping sound) to express surprise or \"Sss\" (an inward hiss) to express empathy when another is hurt.\n\nTsou and Damin have both been claimed to possess an ingressive phoneme, but neither claim has been validated to date, and the Tsou claim has been nearly disproved.\nThere are claims of Tohono O'odham women speaking entirely ingressively.\n\nThere are examples of ingressive sounds that belong to paralanguage. Japanese has what has been described an apicoprepalatal fricative approximant, similar to an inbreathed [s], as a response to statements that are upsetting or as a sign of deference. Japanese-speakers also use an ingressive bilateral bidental friction as a \"pre-turn opening in conversation\" or to begin a prayer.\n\nSpeech technologist Robert Eklund has found reports of ingressive speech in around 50 languages worldwide, dating as far back as Cranz's (1765) \"Historie von Grönland, enthaltend…,\" which mentions it in female affirmations among the Eskimo.\nSeveral languages include an affirmative \"yeah,\" \"yah,\" \"yuh,\" or \"yes\" that is made with inhaled breath, which sounds something like a gasp. That is an example of a pulmonic ingressive and is found as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53594947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53594947", "title": "Ivan Franko International Prize", "text": "Ivan Franko International Prize\n\nIvan Franko International Prize is an honourable acknowledgment of scientific discoveries, significant achievements and considerable efforts of world scientists in the field of Ukrainian Studies and social and humanitarian sciences. The prize is awarded by Ivan Franko International Foundation. The researchers, whose scientific works have been submitted to the Prize Committee and acknowledged to be the best pursuant to the judgement of the International Juries, are awarded with the Prize.\n\nThe International Prize is awarded annually on the 27th of August, on birthday of Ivan Franko.\n\nEach laureate receives a monetary reward, a golden medal with an image of Ivan Franko and the diploma.\n\nThe International Jury, members of which are elected upon the recommendations of the Board of the Fund and the members of the International Experts Council is entrusted to make decisions upon award of the prize.\n\nThe first Laureate award ceremony took place on August 27, 2016 on the 160th anniversary of birth of Ivan Franko in Drohobych.\n\nThe solemn ceremony is considered to be one of the major cultural events in Ukraine. The Head of the Board and the members of the Board of the Fund, the laureates of the prize, nominees, famous Ukrainian and foreign scientists, public figures are participating in it. The ceremony has been held in two languages and accompanied by the symphony orchestra and chorus.\n\nThe prize is established to promote an overall study of creative, scientific and public activity of Ivan Franko and inspire scientists from different countries of the world to carry out urgent researches in the field of social and humanitarian sciences and Ukrainian Studies, which emphasize humanist, national, spiritual, state-creative meaning for perception and establishment of the scientific and cultural heritage of Ukraine in the global context.\n\nThe prize is awarded annually on the 27th of August, on birthday of Ivan Yanovych Franko in two nominations:\n\nAccording to the Charter of the Ivan Franko International Fund, academic institutions, higher educational establishments of Ukraine and of the world having diplomatic relationships with Ukraine, as well as prize laureates of the previous years may submit the scientists’ works for the Prize. The same person may be the Laureate of the Prize only once.\n\nThe prize fund is formed on the basis of the contribution payments. The prize fund of 2016 amounts to five hundred thousand hryvnias.\n\nBeside the monetary award, the Laureates are awarded with the diploma and Golden Mark of the Laureate (medal).\n\n\nThe Archbishop-Emeritus, the former Head of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, Lubomyr Husar with his scientific monograph \"Andrii Sheptytsky, the Galician Metropolitan (1901-1944), forerunner of ecumenism\" became the first Laureate of the prize.\n\nThe International Jury announced the Laureate of Ivan Franko International Prize of 2016 at the Vienna University on August 5, 2016. Blessed Lubomyr Huzar defenced his monograph in English in 1972 at the Pontifical Urbaniana University in Rome. The work was translated and published in Lviv in 2015.\n\nThe International Jury granted Ivan Franko Prize in Drohobych on August 27, 2016. Since Lubomyr Huzar could not participate in the ceremony due to reasonable causes, he authorized Archbishop Yaroslav, Bishop of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church of Sambir-Drohobych, to accept the award, and read the word of gratitude on his behalf, as well.\n\nGranting of Ivan Franko International Prize took place at the residence of the Blessed Liubomyr on August 30, 2016. The grandson of the Great Kameniar (Bricklayer), Roland Franko personally granted the golden medal, certificate and monetary award to the Laureate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "675488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675488", "title": "Janet Evanovich", "text": "Janet Evanovich\n\nJanet Evanovich (born Janet Schneider; April 22, 1943) is an American writer. She began her career writing short contemporary romance novels under the pen name Steffie Hall, but gained fame authoring a series of contemporary mysteries featuring Stephanie Plum, a former lingerie buyer from Trenton, New Jersey, who becomes a bounty hunter to make ends meet after losing her job. The novels in this series have been on \"The New York Times\", USA Today, \"Wall Street Journal\" and Amazon bestseller lists. Evanovich has had her last seventeen Plums debut at #1 on the \"NY Times\" Best Sellers list and eleven of them have hit #1 on \"USA Today\" Best-Selling Books list. She has over two hundred million books in print worldwide and is translated into over 40 languages.\n\nEvanovich is a second-generation American born in South River, New Jersey to a machinist and a housewife. After attending South River High School, she became the first in her family to attend college when she enrolled at Douglass College, part of Rutgers University, to study art.\n\nWhen Evanovich had children, she chose to become a housewife like her mother. In her thirties, she began writing novels. To learn the art of writing dialog, Evanovich took lessons in improv acting. For ten years, she attempted to write the Great American Novel, finishing three manuscripts that she was unable to sell. After someone suggested she try writing romance novels, Evanovich read several romances and discovered that she enjoyed the genre. She wrote two romances and submitted them for publishing. Still unable to find a publisher, Evanovich stopped writing and signed with a temporary employment agency. Several months after beginning work for them, she received an offer to buy her second romance manuscript for $2,000, which she considered an \"astounding sum.\"\n\nThat novel, \"Hero at Large\", was published in 1987 in the Second Chance Love category line under the pseudonym Steffie Hall. The following year she began writing for Bantam Loveswept under her own name. For the next five years she continued to write category romances for Loveswept. Her work within the romance novel genre helped her learn to create likable characters and attractive leading men. In this time, Evanovich also became known for the humor that filled her novels. She believes that \"it's very important to take a comic approach. If we can laugh at something, we can face it.\"\n\nAfter finishing her twelfth romance, however, Evanovich realized that she was more interested in writing the action sequences in her novels than the sex scenes. Her editors were not interested in her change of heart, so Evanovich took the next eighteen months to formulate a plan for what she actually wanted to write.\n\nShe quickly decided that she wanted to write romantic adventure novels. Unlike the style of romance novels, her books would be told in first person narrative. Her new type of writing should contain heroes and heroines, as well as \"a sense of family and community.\" In that vein, she intended her new style of writing to be based on the TV sitcom model. Like Seinfeld, her new books would have a central character that the rest of the cast of characters revolve around.\n\nInspired by the Robert De Niro movie \"Midnight Run\", Evanovich decided that her heroine would be a bounty hunter. This occupation provided more freedom for Evanovich as a writer, as bounty hunters do not have a set work schedule and are not forced to wear a uniform. The profession is also \"romanticised to some extent.\" To become acquainted with the demands of the career, Evanovich spent a great deal of time shadowing bond enforcement agents. She also researched more about the city of Trenton, where she wanted her books to be set.\n\nIn 1994, her initial romantic adventure, \"One for the Money\", was published to good reviews. This was the first of a light-hearted series of mysteries starring barely competent bounty hunter Stephanie Plum. \"One for the Money\" was named a \"New York Times\" notable book, a \"Publishers Weekly\" Best Book of 1994 and a \"USA Today\" Best Bet.\n\nEvanovich has continued to write romantic adventures starring Stephanie Plum. The sixth book in the series, \"Hot Six\", was the first of her novels to reach number one on the New York Times Best Seller List. Her subsequent Plum novels have each debuted at number one. \"All About Romance\" has described her as the \"rare breed of romance author who has left the genre and yet not alienated her many romance fans.\"\n\nThe Plum novels have taken many attributes from Evanovich's own life. Evanovich shares many commonalities with her character Stephanie Plum. Both are from New Jersey, both devour Cheetos, both had owned a hamster, and both have shared \"similar embarrassing experiences.\" The character Grandma Mazur is loosely based on Evanovich's \"Grandma Fanny\" and \"Aunt Lena.\" Evanovich claims the spirited elderly lady is \"who I want to be when I grow up.\"\n\nShortly before \"One for the Money\" was released, Evanovich sold the movie rights to Columbia TriStar for $1 million. Lions Gate Entertainment released \"One for the Money\" on January 27, 2012. The film stars Katherine Heigl as Stephanie Plum, Sherri Shepherd from \"The View\" as Lula, Debbie Reynolds as Grandma Mazur, Jason O'Mara as Joe Morelli, and Daniel Sunjata as Ranger. It was directed by Julie Anne Robinson.\n\nHer latest Stephanie Plum novel, \"Hardcore Twenty-Four\", was released November 21, 2017 and it reached number one on The New York Times Fiction Best Sellers of 2017 for December 3.\n\nIn 2016 Evanovich released the first book, \"Curious Minds\", in her new Knight & Moon mystery series. Co-authored with Phoef Sutton, the book introduces two new characters, Emerson Knight and Riley Moon. Emerson Knight is a rich, eccentric introvert with little-to-no sense of social etiquette. He is also brilliant and handsome. Riley Moon is a recent Harvard Law and Harvard Business graduate. Her aggressive Texas spitfire attitude helped her land her dream job as a junior analyst at Blane-Grunwald where Emerson is a client. Together this unlikely duo finds themselves thrust into solving the most difficult of mysteries.\n\n\"Dangerous Minds\", the second book in the series, was written by Evanovich and released in June 2017.\n\nIn 2010 Evanovich published \"Wicked Appetite\", spinning off the character Diesel from the between-the-numbers Plum books. The heroine of \"Wicked Appetite\" is sweet cupcake baker Lizzie Tucker, who, unlike Stephanie Plum, can cook. The \"Wicked\" series is set in Salem, Massachusetts. In the series, Diesel & Lizzie search for the seven stones of power, each representing a different deadly sin. Lizzie & Diesel are \"Unmentionables\", humans with additional powers. Their rivals for the stones are Diesel's dark cousin, Gerwulf \"Wulf\" Grimoire, introduced in \"Plum Spooky\" and his medieval-esque minion Hatchet. Lizzie's animal companions are one-eyed Cat 7143 and Carl the Monkey, from \"Fearless Fourteen\" and \"Plum Spooky\". Her friends include Glo, a \"Questionable,\" and Clara Dazzle, an \"Unmentionable\" who lost her powers after congress with another \"Unmentionable.\" In \"Wicked Appetite\", the stone sought is that incarnating the sin of gluttony.\n\nIn 2012 Evanovich published \"Wicked Business\", the second in the series. In \"Wicked Business\", the stone embodies the sin of lust. A new villain is introduced, deranged candy heiress Deirdre Early, or Anarchy. Lizzie, through a selfless act and exchange of body fluids with Wulf, converts the lust stone into the \"icky true love stone\", implying that in the right circumstances, the stones of sin can be converted into stones of virtue.\n\nIn 2015 Evanovich teamed up with Phoef Sutton for the third novel in the series, \"Wicked Charms\". The Stone of Avarice (Greed) is the focus of this installment.\n\nIn June 2013, Evanovich published the novella \"Pros & Cons\" and the novel \"The Heist\", the first two works in a new series co-written with Lee Goldberg. Since then the series has grown to five novels (The Heist, The Chase, The Job, The Scam, and The Pursuit), two novellas (Pros & Cons and The Shell Game) and one online short-story, The Caper.\n\nThe protagonist is FBI special agent Kate O’Hare who has devoted her career to taking down one of the FBI’s most wanted con men and master thieves, Nick Fox. That is until the FBI pairs Kate with the most unlikely person, Nick Fox, to take down criminals. Together they travel the globe skirting on the edge of what is legal and illegal. Kate’s father, Jake O’Hare, a retired Special Forces operative, often aids in their quest. In June 2016, the fifth novel in the series, The Pursuit, was released.\n\nEvanovich began a collaborative effort with Charlotte Hughes because she wanted to see some of her other ideas on paper but did not have the time to write them. This resulted in the \"Full\" series. The \"Full\" series is set in Beaumont, South Carolina and features Jamie Swift and Maximillian Holt, who meet in the second \"Full\" book, \"Full Tilt\".\n\nThe \"Elsie Hawkins\" novels are stand alone romances with a supporting character Elsie Hawkins, who is a gun totin' retiree, with tight grey curls, who \"doesn't take sass from no one.\" Elsie drives a 1957 powder blue Cadillac that never seems to sustain damage. In the Stephanie Plum series, Grandma Mazur and Stephanie drive Uncle Sandor's 1953 powder blue Buick, which has similar indestructibility.\n\nIn 2004, Evanovich launched another series with \"Metro Girl.\" This book debuted at Number 2 on the New York Times Best Seller List. The heroine is Alexandra Barnaby, an auto mechanic. Her love interest is Sam Hooker, a hedonistic NASCAR driver. The \"Motor\" series is set in the southern U.S. states. Further books in the series include \"Motor Mouth\" and \"Troublemaker 1 & 2\" (graphic novels).\n\nEvanovich collaborated with Stephen J. Cannell, noted T.V. writer and producer (\"A Team, Rockford Files, Baretta, 21 Jump Street\"), on a book entitled \"No Chance\", which was to be the first book in a new series. It was supposed to be released in October 2007. However, in July 2007, the book was canceled. Stephen J. Cannell died in 2010 of melanoma.\n\nDuring the week, Evanovich works eight or more hours per day. On weekends she generally works for an additional four hours each day. She generally creates a brief outline before beginning a new book, with one or two sentences about what will happen in each chapter. Upon the release of a new book, Evanovich regularly goes on book tours. Her book signings attracted thousands of people. Beginning with her third Stephanie Plum book, \"Three to Get Deadly,\" and ending with \"Smokin' Seventeen\", all of the titles have been chosen from fan submissions.\n\nEvanovich lives in Florida with her husband, Pete, whom she married in 1964. Pete is of Serbian ancestry. Members of Evanovich's family are employed by her company, Evanovich Inc., including her husband, Pete, son, Peter, and daughter Alexandra.\n\nEvanovich's niece (by marriage) is author Stephanie Evanovich. (Stephanie's father is the brother of Janet's husband, Pete.)\n\nOriginally written under the name Steffie Hall\n\n\n\nCo-written with Lee Goldberg\n\n\n\n\nCo-written with Charlotte Hughes\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3774480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3774480", "title": "Kazuyo Sejima", "text": "Kazuyo Sejima\n\nKazuyo Sejima, along with and Ryue Nishizawa, has worked on several projects in Germany, Switzerland, France, England, the Netherlands, United States, and Spain. Many of their designs like the Rolex Learning Center at EPFL the New Museum in the Bowery District in New York City as well as the Glass Pavilion for the Toledo Museum of Art involve glass and public open space to interact with the world around the architecture. Such design elements can be found abundantly in their designs.\n\nIn 2010, Sejima was the second woman to receive the Pritzker Prize, which was awarded jointly with Ryue Nishizawa.\n\nSejima was born on 29 October 1956 at Mito, Ibaraki, Japan. She graduated from Japan Women's University in 1979. She then went on to complete the Master's Degree course in architecture in 1981. In the same year, she began working with the architecture firm Toyo Ito and Associates until 1987.\n\nAfter apprenticing with Toyo Ito, Sejima established Kazuyo Sejima & Associates in 1987. One of her first hires was Ryue Nishizawa, a student who had worked with Sejima at Toyo Ito and Associates. After working for Sejima for several years, Sejima asked him to form a partnership. In 1995, the two founded the Tokyo-based firm SANAA (Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates). In 2010, Sejima was appointed director of architecture sector for the Venice Biennale, which she curated for the 12th Annual International Architecture Exhibition. She was the first woman ever selected for this position. In 2010, she was awarded the Pritzker Prize, together with Ryue Nishizawa.\n\nWhen describing Sejima's work, a viewer would notice that she mostly uses glass in all of her work. She likes slick surfaces such as marble, and her buildings mainly display an arrange of curves within the architecture of the building as well as on the surface. Kazuyo successfully combines the building with the surrounding areas. The use of a lot of sheer glasses and clear glass is used, allowing for a person to look at the outdoors, while also looking at themselves and the reflections the outside world creates on the inside of the building.\n\nSejima intentionally overturns outmoded stereotypical housing models as they are based on assumptions instead of reality. These assumptions include housing models that illustrate the proper living condition for a nuclear family, etc. Her idea is not to initiate a complete rejection to tradition, but rather to challenge the conventional process of design. Instead of unconsciously applying assumptions to a design, she tries to confront them consciously as best as she can. She thinks it is impossible to let a building completely based on a fictional idea or theory of what something should be.\n\nJapan\n\nKazuyo Sejima\nSANAA\n\nSejima teaches as a Visiting Professor, both at Tama Art University and Japan Women's University in Tokyo. In Vienna she leads an architectural design studio at the University of Applied Arts Vienna, where she succeeded Zaha Hadid in 2015. From 2005 to 2008, together with Nishizawa, she held the Jean Labatut Professorship at the School of Architecture at Princeton University, where she also served on the advisory council for several years. Kazuyo Sejima has also taught at the Polytechnique de Lausanne and Keio University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2882789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882789", "title": "Kütahya", "text": "Kütahya\n\nKütahya () is a city in western Turkey with 237,804 inhabitants (2011 estimate), lying on the Porsuk river, at 969 metres above sea level. It is the capital of Kütahya Province, inhabited by some 564 294 people (2011 estimate). The region of Kütahya has large areas of gentle slopes with agricultural land culminating in high mountain ridges to the north and west.\nThe city's Greek name was Kotyaion, Latinized in Roman times as Cotyaeum.\n\nKütahya is remembered as Cotyaeum during classical times. It later became part of the Roman province of Phrygia Salutaris, but in about 820 became the capital of the new province of Phrygia Salutaris III. Its bishopric thus changed from being a suffragan of Synnada to a metropolitan see, although with only three suffragan sees according to the \"Notitia Episcopatuum\" of Byzantine Emperor Leo VI the Wise (886-912), which is dated to around 901-902. According to the 6th-century historian John Malalas, Cyrus of Panopolis, who had been prefect of the city of Constantinople, was sent there as bishop by Emperor Theodosius II (408-50), after four bishops of the city had been killed. Two other sources makes Cyrus bishop of Smyrna instead. The bishopric of Cotyaeum was headed in 431 by Domnius, who was at the Council of Ephesus, and in 451 by Marcianus, who was at the Council of Chalcedon. A source cited by Lequien says that a bishop of Cotyaeum named Eusebius was at the Second Council of Constantinople in 553. Cosmas was at the Third Council of Constantinople in 680–681. Ioannes, a deacon, represented an unnamed bishop of Cotyaeum at the Trullan Council in 692. Bishop Constantinus was at the Second Council of Nicaea in 692, and Bishop Anthimus at the Photian Council of Constantinople (879), No longer a residential bishopric, Cotyaeum is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\nUnder the reign of Byzantine Emperor Justinian I the town was fortified with a double-line of walls and citadel. In 1071 Cotyaeum (or Kotyaion) fell to the Seljuk Turks and later switched hands, falling successively to the Crusaders, Germiyanids, Timur-Leng (Tamerlane), until finally being incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1428. During this time a large number of Christian Armenians settled in Kotyaion/Kütahya, where they came to dominate the tile-making and ceramic ware production. With this, Kütahya emerged as a renowned center for the Ottoman ceramic industry, producing tiles and faience for mosques, churches, and official buildings in places all over the Middle East. It was initially center of Anatolia Eyalet till 1827, when Hüdavendigâr Eyalet was formed. It was later sanjak centre in Hüdavendigâr Vilayet in 1867. It was briefly occupied by troops of Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt in 1833.\n\nThe fortifications of the city and its environs, which were vital to the security and economic prosperity of the region, have been built and rebuilt from antiquity through the Ottoman Period. However, the dates assigned to the many periods of construction and the assessment of the military architecture are open to various interpretations.\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century, Kütahya's population was counted at 120,333, of which 4,050 were Greeks, 2,533 Armenians, 754 Catholics, and the remainder Turks and other Muslims. It is noteworthy that Kütahya and the district itself were spared the ravages of the Armenian Genocide of 1915, when the Turkish governor went to extreme lengths to protect the Armenian population from being uprooted and sent away on death marches. Kütahya was occupied by Greek troops on 17 July 1921 after Battle of Kütahya–Eskişehir during Turkish War of Independence and captured in ruins after the Battle of Dumlupınar during the Great Offensive on 30 August 1922.\n\nThe industries of Kütahya have long traditions, going back to ancient times. Kütahya is famous for its kiln products, such as tiles and pottery, which are glazed and multicoloured. Modern industries are sugar refining, tanning, nitrate processing and different products of meerschaum, which is extracted nearby. The local agricultural industry produces cereals, fruits and sugar beet. In addition stock raising is of much importance. Not far from Kütahya there are important mines extracting lignite.\n\nKütahya is linked by rail and road with Balıkesir to the west, Konya to the southeast, Eskişehir northeast and Ankara east.\n\nA small ewer, now in the British Museum, gave its name to a category of similar blue and white fritware pottery known as 'Abraham of Kütahya ware'. It has an inscription in Armenian script under the glaze on its base stating that it commemorated Abraham of Kütahya with a date of 1510. In 1957 Arthur Lane published an influential article in which he reviewed the history of pottery production in the region and proposed that 'Abraham of Kütahya' ware was produced from 1490 until around 1525, 'Damascus' and 'Golden Horn' ware were produced from 1525 until 1555 and 'Rhodian' ware from around 1555 until the demise of the İznik pottery industry at the beginning of the 18th century. This chronology has been generally accepted.\n\nKütahya has a warm summer mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification C\"sb\"), with cool winters and warm, dry summers. Rainfall occurs mostly during the spring and autumn, but can be observed throughout the year.\n\nKütahya is forecast to be the city most affected by global warming in Turkey.\n\nKütahya's old neighbourhoods are dominated by traditional Ottoman houses made of wood and stucco, some of the best examples being found along Germiyan Caddesi. It has many historical mosques such as Ulu Camii, Cinili Camii, Balikli Camii and Donenler Camii. The Şengül Hamamı is a famous Turkish bath located in the city\n\nThe town preserves some ancient ruins, a Byzantine castle and church. During late centuries Kütahya has been renowned for its Turkish earthenware, of which fine specimens may be seen at the national capital. The Kütahya Museum has a fine collection of arts and cultural artifacts from the area, the house where Hungarian statesman Lajos Kossuth lived in exile between 1850-1851 is preserved as a museum.\n\nThe Main Campus and the Germiyan Campus of the Kütahya Dumlupınar University are located in the city.\n\nThe main bus station has bus links to most major Turkish cities. Zefer Airport is active. Kastamonu is also the main railroad endpoint for the Aegean region.\n\nKütahya is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31294700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31294700", "title": "LGBT demographics of the United States", "text": "LGBT demographics of the United States\n\nThe demographics of sexual orientation and gender identity in the United States have been studied in the social sciences in recent decades. A 2017 Gallup poll concluded that 4.5% of adult Americans identified as LGBT with 5.1% of women identifying as LGBT, compared with 3.9% of men. A different survey in 2016, from the Williams Institute, estimated that 0.6% of U.S. adults identify as transgender.\n\nStudies from several nations, including the U.S., conducted at varying time periods, have produced a statistical range of 1.2 to 6.8 percent of the adult population identifying as LGBT. Online surveys tend to yield higher figures than other methods, a likely result of the higher degree of anonymity of Internet surveys, which elicit reduced levels of socially desirable responding. The U.S. Census Bureau does not ask about sexual orientation in the United States Census.\n\nThe American cities with the highest gay populations are New York City with 272,493, Los Angeles with 154,270, Chicago with 114,449, and San Francisco with 94,234, as estimated by the Williams Institute in 2006. However, one is much more likely to encounter gay residents in San Francisco, Seattle, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Boston as a higher \"percentage\" of those cities' residents are gay or lesbian.\n\nThe U.S. metropolitan areas with the most gay residents are the New York, New York–Northern New Jersey–Long Island, New York metro with 568,903; followed by Los Angeles–Long Beach–Santa Ana, California with 442,211; and the Chicago-Naperville-Joliet, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin metro with 288,748.\n\nThe charts below show a list of the top U.S. cities (in alphabetical order), metropolitan areas, and states with the highest population of gay residents and the highest percentage of gay residents (GLB population as a percentage of total residents based on available census data). The numbers given are estimates based on American Community Survey data for the year 2000.\n\n\"Homosexuality/Heterosexuality: Concepts of Sexual Orientation\" published findings of 13.95% of males and 4.25% of females having had either \"extensive\" or \"more than incidental\" homosexual experience.\n\nAn extensive study on sexuality in general was conducted in the United States. A significant portion of the study was geared towards homosexuality. The results found that 8.6% of women and 10.1% of men had at one point in their life experienced some form of homosexuality. Of these, 87% of women and 76% of men reported current same-sex attractions, 41% of women and 52% of men had sex with someone of the same gender, and 16% of women and 27% of men identified as LGBT.\n\nThe American National Health Interview Survey conducts household interviews of the civilian non-institutionalized population. The results of three of these surveys, done in 1990–91 and based on over 9,000 responses each time, found between 2–3% of the people responding said yes to a set of statements which included \"You are a man who has had sex with another man at some time since 1977, even one time.\"\n\nThe National Health and Social Life Survey asked 3,432 respondents whether they had any homosexual experience. The findings were 1.3% for women within the past year, and 4.1% since 18 years; for men, 2.7% within the past year, and 4.9% since 18 years.\n\nThe Alan Guttmacher Institute of sexually active men aged 20–39 found that 2.3% had experienced same-sex sexual activity in the last ten years, and 1.1% reported exclusive homosexual contact during that time.\n\nResearchers Samuel and Cynthia Janus surveyed American adults aged 18 and over by distributing 4,550 questionnaires; 3,260 were returned and 2,765 were usable. The results of the cross-sectional nationwide survey stated men and women who reported frequent or ongoing homosexual experiences were 9% of men and 5% of women.\n\nLaumann et al. analyzed the National Health and Social Life Survey of 1992 which had surveyed 3,432 men and women in the United States between the ages of 18 and 59 and reported that the incidence rate of homosexual desire was 7.7% for men and 7.5% for women.\n\nA random survey of 1672 males (number used for analysis) aged 15 to 19. Subjects were asked a number of questions, including questions relating to same-sex activity. This was done using two methods—a pencil and paper method, and via computer, supplemented by a verbal rendition of the questionnaire heard through headphones—which obtained vastly different results. There was a 400% increase in males reporting homosexual activity when the computer-audio system was used: from a 1.5% to 5.5% positive response rate; the homosexual behavior with the greatest reporting difference (800%, adjusted) was to the question \"Ever had receptive anal sex with another male\": 0.1% to 0.8%.\n\nDuring the 2000 US presidential election campaign, market research firm Harris Interactive studied the prevalence of a gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender identity employing three distinct methods. In phone interviews, 2% of the population self-identified as LGBT. Using in-person surveys with a blind envelope, that grew to 4%, and using online polls 6%. The group concluded that the difference between methods was due to the greater level of anonymity and privacy to online surveys, which provides more comfort to respondents to share their experiences.\n\nSmith's 2003 analysis of National Opinion Research Center data states that 4.9% of sexually active American males have had a male sexual partner since age 18, but that \"since age 18 less than 1% are [exclusively] gay and 4+% bisexual\". In the top twelve urban areas however, the rates are double the national average. Smith adds, \"It is generally believed that including adolescent behavior would further increase these rates.\" The NORC data has been criticised because the original design sampling techniques were not followed, and depended upon direct self-report regarding masturbation and same sex behaviors. (For example, the original data in the early 1990s reported that approximately 40% of adult males had never masturbated—a finding inconsistent with some other studies.)\n\nIn a telephone survey of 4,193 male residents of New York City, 91.3% of men identified as straight, 3.7% as gay, and 1.2% as bisexual. 1.7% said they were in doubt or were not sure and 2.1% declined to answer. 12.4% of men who responded to the sexual orientation question, reported sex exclusively with men in the 12 months prior to the survey. Most of them (~70%) identified as heterosexual.\n\nThe American Community Survey from the U.S. Census estimated 776,943 same-sex couples in the country as a whole, representing about 0.5% of the population.\n\nFried's 2008 analysis of General Social Survey data shows the percentage of United States males reporting homosexual activity for three time periods: 1988–92, 1993–98, and 2000–06. These results are broken out by political party self-identification, and indicate increasing percentages, particularly among Democrats (perhaps reflecting, in the authors' view, either a shift of political allegiance among gay Americans, or increasing likelihood of acknowledging a homosexual orientation).\n\nCornell University, carrying out research into sexuality amongst a representative sample of more than 20,000 young Americans, published that 14.4% of young women were not strictly heterosexual in behavior, a group that included lesbian and bisexual women; 5.6% of young men self-identified as being gay or bisexual.\n\nNational Election Pool's exit polling showed self-identified gay, lesbian, and bisexual voters at 4% of the voting population in the United States presidential election, 2008.\n\nThe National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys interviewed a nationally representative sample of 11,744 adults aged 20 to 59 between 2003 and 2010. One hundred and eighty (1.5%) self-reported a homosexual orientation and 273 (2.3%) a bisexual one.\n\nThe National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior surveyed nearly 6,000 people nationwide between the ages of 14 and 94 through an online methodology and found that 7 percent of women and 8 percent of men identify as gay, lesbian or bisexual.\n\nUsing a phone methodology, the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey found, in a sample of about 10,000 women and 8,000 men, that 1.3% of women and 2% of men identify as gay or lesbian, and 1.2% of men and 2.2% of women identify as bisexual.\n\nA Gallup report published in October 2012 by the Williams Institute reported that 3.4% of US adults identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. Minorities were more likely to identify as non-heterosexual; 4.6% of blacks, 4.0% of Hispanics and 3.2% of whites. Younger people, aged 18–29, were three times more likely to identify as LGBT than seniors over the age of 65, the numbers being 6.4% and 1.9%, respectively.\n\nThe National Election Pool found that, among voters on Election Day, 5% identify as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.\n\nIn the first large-scale government survey measuring Americans’ sexual orientation, the NHIS reported in July 2014 that 1.6 percent of Americans identify as gay or lesbian, and 0.7 percent identify as bisexual. 1.5 percent of women self-identify as lesbian and 0.9 consider themselves bisexual, while 1.8 percent of men consider themselves gay and 0.4 percent identify as bisexual.\n\nThe National Survey of Family Growth is a nationally representative, multi-year survey of teenagers and adults aged 15–44. The sexual orientation items are presented only to interviewees over age 18. Results are presented separately for women and men.\n\nIn an experiment, National Bureau of Economic Research concluded that the share of the population that is non-heterosexual has been significantly underestimated in surveys using traditional questioning methods, even if anonymous. In this study, it was found that, in all three facets of sexual orientation (identity, attraction, and behavior), the percentage of individuals who recognized themselves as non-heterosexual was larger when the survey method in use was the item randomized response, known to reduce socially desirable responding, in lieu of questions with direct responses. However, because the study was based on online volunteer samples and was therefore not nationally representative, researchers make no suggestion as to the real size of the LGBT population.\n\nWriting in the opinion section of \"The New York Times\" in 2013, Seth Stephens-Davidowitz estimated that roughly 5 percent of American men are \"primarily attracted to men\". First, using Facebook data and Gallup poll results, he correlated the percentage of men who are openly gay with their state of birth and residence. Second, he measured what percentage of Google pornographic searches were for gay porn. The first method gave between 1 and 3 percent. The second showed that roughly 5 percent of men search for gay porn in every state. The figure was slightly higher in states considered gay-tolerant than in others.\n\nA study has also found that, based on the GSS, the proportion of men and women who self-report ever having had a same-sex sexual partner has steadily increased since the early 1990s. In the 1989-1994 period, 4.53% of men and 3.61% of women self-reported homosexual sex ever, which grew to 8.18% of men and 8.74% of women in the 2010-2014 period. The augmentation is mainly due to those who self-report sex with both genders; among those who have only had sex with the same gender, no clear pattern of increase emerged throughout the periods analyzed.\n\nIn a nationally representative telephone survey of 35,071 Americans, Pew Research found that 1,604, or 4.6%, of the sample identified as gay, lesbian or bisexual, and 32,439 (or 92.4%) as heterosexual, with the remainder refusing or being unable to provide an answer, or identifying as something else.\n\nIn a nationally representative survey of 2,021 Americans carried out by Indiana University, it was found that 89.8% of men and 92.2% of women identify as heterosexual, 1.9% of men and 3.6% of women are bisexual, 5.8% of men and 1.5% of women consider themselves gay or lesbian, 0.5% of men and 1.3% of women identify as asexual, and 0.7% of men and 0.9% of women as other.\n\nThe Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI) survey of 2,314 Millennials found that 88% identified as heterosexual, 4% as bisexual, 2% as gay, and 1% as lesbian. In a separate question, 1% identified as transgender. In total, 7% of Millennials identified as LGBT. Three percent refused to identify their sexual orientation. The unaffiliated were more likely to identify as LGBT than the religious, as were Democratic-leaning Millennials compared to the Republican-leaning. No differences were found among the races.\n\nIn a Yougov survey of 1,000 adults, 2% of the sample identified as gay male, 2% as gay female, 4% as bisexual (of either sex), and 89% as heterosexual.\n\nIn National Election Pool's exit poll of over 24,500 Election Day voters, 5% identified as LGBT.\n\nGallup's daily tracking phone survey found that the proportion of Americans who identify as LGBT in 2016 was 4.1% — which represents growth over the 3.6% registered when the question started being asked in 2012. Growth was highest among women, Millennials, the non-religious, Hispanics, and Asians, and happened across income and educational categories. Among the religious, and older generations than Millennials, the share of those self-identifying as LGBT remained stable or varied negatively.\n\nA female-only survey found that 7% of American women identify as gay or bisexual.\n\nAccording to a national survey organized by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and Harris Poll, 12% of the US adult population is either a sexual minority (i.e., gay, lesbian, bisexual, asexual or pansexual) or identifies as something other than cisgender. This proportion was highest among Millennials (20%) and decreased with age, reaching 5% among those who were aged 72 or more.\n\nThe Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI) conducted a survey of over 100,000 U.S. residents from January 2016 to January 2017 asking, among a variety of attitude and demographic questions, whether or not they consider themselves LGBT. 4.4% of respondents answered affirmatively to that question, and 90.4% responded negatively. The remainder 5.3% didn't know or refused to answer.\n\nIn a nationally representative survey organized by Kantar TNS, 87% of American men aged 18 to 30 years identified as heterosexual, 7% as homosexual, 4% as bisexual, and 1% as other.\n"}
{"id": "37314750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37314750", "title": "Le Pinacle", "text": "Le Pinacle\n\nLe Pinacle is a protruding pinnacle of rock, at the coastal edge of a Les Landes in the north-west of Jersey, with remains and ruins at its base dating from five periods including the Neolithic and Chalcolithic periods, the Bronze Age, and the Iron Age. There is also evidence of a rectangular Gallo-Roman temple.\n\nThe dolerite stratum has been mined, and used to make axe heads during the Neolithic period and Bronze Age.\n\nThe megalithic rock is a natural formation, and a prominent landmark which can be seen from St Ouen's bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "28517794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28517794", "title": "List of Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries of London", "text": "List of Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries of London\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries of London. The honour, denoted by the post-nominal FSA, is awarded to members of the Society of Antiquaries of London, a learned society founded in 1707.\n\n"}
{"id": "26878272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26878272", "title": "List of meteor air bursts", "text": "List of meteor air bursts\n\nMany explosions recorded in Earth's atmosphere are likely caused by the air burst that results from a meteor exploding as it hits the thicker part of the atmosphere. These types of meteors are also known as fireballs or bolides with the brightest known as superbolides. Before entering Earth's atmosphere, these larger meteors were originally asteroids and comets of a few to several tens of meters in diameter, contrasting with the much smaller and much more common \"shooting stars\".\n\nThe most powerful recorded air burst is the 1908 Tunguska event. Extremely bright fireballs traveling across the sky are often witnessed from a distance, such as the 1947 Sikhote-Alin meteor and the 2013 Chelyabinsk meteor, both in Russia. If the bolide is large enough, fragments may survive such as the Chelyabinsk meteorite. Modern developments in infrasound detection by the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization and infrared Defense Support Program satellite technology have increased the likelihood of detecting airbursts.\n\nThe table from Earth Impact Effects Program (EIEP) estimates the average frequency of airbursts and their energy yield in kilotons (kt) or megatons (Mt) of TNT equivalent.\n\nWhile airbursts undoubtedly happened prior to the 20th century, reliable reports of such are quite scanty. A relatively well-documented case is the 1490 Ch'ing-yang event which has an unknown energy yield but was apparently powerful enough to cause 10,000 deaths. Modern researchers are skeptical about the figure, but had the Tunguska event occurred over a highly populous district, it could have caused similar destruction.\n\nDepending on the estimate, there were only 3-4 known airbursts in the 20th century with energy yield greater than 80 kilotons (in 1908, 1930, 1932, and 1963), roughly consistent with the estimate of the EIEP table. Most values for the 1930 Curuçá River event put it below 1 megaton.\n\nThe first airburst of the 21st century with yield greater than 100 kilotons came from the 2013 Chelyabinsk meteor, which had an estimated diameter of 20 meters.\n\nThe Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization and modern technology has improved \"multiple\" detection of airbursts with energy yield 1-2 kilotons every year within the last decade. The table below contains a chronological list of events with yield at least 3 kilotons since 2005, with earlier or smaller events included if widely covered in the media.\n\nAs of January 2018, the number of airbursts each year since 2005, as reported in the \"JPL Fireball and Bolide Reports\" are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4967305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4967305", "title": "Maya architecture", "text": "Maya architecture\n\nA unique and intricate style, the tradition of Mayan architecture spans several thousands of years. Often, the buildings most dramatic and easily recognizable as Mayans are the stepped pyramids of the\nTerminal Pre-classic period and beyond. Being based on the general Mesoamerican architectural traditions, these pyramids relied on intricate carved stone in order to create a stairstep design. Each pyramid was dedicated to a deity whose shrine sat at its top. During this \"height\" of Maya culture, the centers of their religious, commercial and bureaucratic power grew into large cities, namely Tikal and Uxmal. Through observation of the numerous consistent elements and stylistic distinctions, remnants of Maya architecture have become an important key to understanding the evolution of their ancient temples.\n\nAs Maya cities spread throughout the varied geography of Mesoamerica, the extent of site planning appears to have been minimal; their cities having been built somewhat haphazardly as dictated by the topography of each independent location. Maya architecture tends to integrate a great degree of natural features. For instance, some cities existing on the flat limestone plains of the northern Yucatán grew into great sprawling municipalities, while others built in the hills of Usumacinta utilized the natural loft of the topography to raise their towers and temples to impressive heights. However, some semblance of order, as required by any large city, still prevailed.\nAt the onset of large-scale construction, a predetermined axis was typically established in congruence with the cardinal directions. Depending upon the location and availability of natural resources such as fresh-water wells, or \"cenotes\", the city grew by connecting great plazas with the numerous platforms that created the sub-structure for nearly all Maya buildings, by means of \"sacbeob\" causeways. As more structures were added and existing structures re-built or remodeled, the great Maya cities seemed to take on an almost random identity that contrasts sharply with other great Mesoamerican cities such as Teotihuacan and its rigid grid-like construction.\nAt the heart of the Maya city existed the large plazas surrounded by their most valued governmental and religious buildings such as the royal acropolis, great pyramid temples, and occasionally ballcourts. Though city layouts evolved as nature dictated, careful attention was placed on the directional orientation of temples and observatories so that they were constructed in accordance with Maya interpretation of the orbits of the stars. Immediately outside this ritual center were the structures of lesser nobles, smaller temples, and individual shrines: the less sacred and less important structures had a greater degree of privacy. Outside the constantly evolving urban core were the less permanent and more modest homes of the common people.\n\nClassic Era Maya urban design could easily be described as the division of space by great monuments and causeways. In this case, the open public plazas were the gathering places for the people and the focus of the urban design, while interior space was entirely secondary. Only in the Late Post-Classic era did the great Maya cities develop into more fortress-like defensive structures that lacked, for the most part, the large and numerous plazas of the Classic.\n\nAll evidence seems to suggest that most stone buildings existed on top of a platform sub-structure that varied in height from less than a meter, in the case of terraces and smaller structures, to 45 meters in the case of great temples and pyramids. A flight of often steep stone steps split the large stepped platforms on at least one side, contributing to the common bi-symmetrical appearance of Maya architecture. Depending on the prevalent stylistic tendencies of an area, these platforms most often were built of a stucco and cut stone exterior filled with densely packed gravel. As is the case with many other Maya reliefs, those on the platforms often were related to the intended purpose of the residing structure. Thus, as the sub-structural platforms were completed, the grand residences and temples of the Maya were constructed on the solid foundations of the platforms. As all structures were built, little attention seems to have been given to their utilitarian functionality and much to external aesthetics; however, a certain repeated aspect, the corbeled arch, was often utilized to mimic the appearance and feel of the simple Maya hut. Though not an effective tool to increase interior space, as it required thick stone walls to support the high ceiling, some temples utilized repeated arches, or a corbelled vault, to construct what the Maya referred to as \"pibnal\", or sweatbath, such as those in the Temple of the Cross at Palenque. As structures were completed, typically extensive relief work was added, often to the covering of stucco used to smooth any imperfections; however, many lintel carvings have been discovered, as well as actual stone carvings used as a facade. Commonly, these would continue uninterrupted around an entire structure and contain a variety of artwork pertaining to the inhabitants or purpose of a building. Though not the case in all Maya locations, broad use of painted stucco has been discovered as well.\n\nIt has been suggested that, in conjunction to the Maya Long Count Calendar, every fifty-two years, or cycle, temples and pyramids were remodeled and rebuilt. It appears now that the rebuilding process was often instigated by a new ruler or for political matters, as opposed to matching the calendar cycle. However, the process of rebuilding on top of old structures is indeed a common one. Most notably, the North Acropolis at Tikal seems to be the sum total of 1,500 years of architectural modifications.\n\nBuilding Materials                                                                                                                                                                                \n\nThe Mayan civilization used very simple tools for building their structures.  The most common tools use were made of stone found in surrounding areas.  Limestone was a huge part of the Mayan tool making, as limestone was geographically very abundant in most settlements.  Locations of the Mayan cities were chosen with the access to necessary stones in mind.  This allowed most quarries to be right outside the city for easy access to blocks needed for construction.  Top Limestone quarries used were Palenque and Tikal.  Though Limestone was the most important material they still collected sandstone from Quiriguá and volcanic tuff from Copan. \n\nThe Mayan people had taken advantage of mortar on most structural projects.  The Mayans used a very difficult process of limestone under large amounts of heat to create their mortar.  The mortar was so widely used, the Mayans even used it for sculptures, facades, and floor layers.  Their mortar was very effective on a large building lifetime, but humid climates can have a negative effect on the mortar. \n\nFor more important construction projects the Mayans would cover the entire structures exterior with stucco, followed by bright paintings, prioritizing red, yellow, green, and blue.\n\nThese were commonly limestone platforms of typically less than four meters in height where public ceremonies and religious rites were performed. Constructed in the fashion of a typical foundation platform, these were often accented by carved figures, altars and perhaps \"tzompantli\", a stake used to display the heads of victims or defeated Mesoamerican ballgame opponents.\n\nLarge and often highly decorated, the palaces usually sat close to the center of a city and housed the population's elite. Every exceedingly large royal palace, or one consisting of many chambers on different levels might be referred to as an acropolis. However, often these were one-story and consisted of small chambers and typically at least one interior courtyard; these structures appear to take into account the needed functionality required of a residence, as well as the decoration required for their inhabitants stature. Archaeologists seem to agree that many palaces are home to various tombs. At Copán, beneath over four-hundred years of later remodeling, a tomb for one of the ancient rulers has been discovered and the North Acropolis at Tikal appears to have been the site of numerous burials during the Terminal Pre-classic and Early Classic periods.\n\n\"E-Group\" is a classification given by Mayanists to certain structure complexes present at a number of Maya sites located in the central and southern Maya lowlands (e.g., the Petén region). Complexes of this type consist of a stepped pyramid main structure, situated on the western side of a quadrilateral plaza or platform. A raised but rather elongated structure appears along the eastern side of the plaza, running north-south; a variation has three smaller temple mounds on top of or replacing this platform, the middle of these substructures placed directly opposite the main structure. Often, two other subsidiary structures appear on the north and south sides of the plaza, respectively. The main western structure is typically terraced (i.e. has several levels), with inset stairways on each of its four sides, with only the eastern stairway, leading from the plaza, providing access to the summit. The stairways have large balustrades which protrude from the pyramid, which were decorated with large stucco masks and panels of architectural art. In other examples, believed to be of a later date, this quadripartite stairway configuration is lacking.\n\nE-group complexes are named after their prototypical example, Structure E-VII-sub at the site of Uaxactun. They were first identified as a meaningful complex by archaeologist Frans Blom in 1924, who excavated the site under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution of Washington.\n\nIt has been theorized that these E-groups are observatories, because the eponymous group at Uaxactun contains alignments corresponding approximately to sunrises on the solstices and equinoxes. However, all other E-groups have different orientations, which pertain to widespread groups of astronomical alignments that are also embedded in a number of buildings of other types; hence the term \"observatory\" applied to these assemblages is hardly warranted. Other ideas seem to stem from the possible creation story told by the relief and artwork that adorns these structures.\n\nThey consist of an elevated platform (either an extensive acropolis or a steep pyramid) with a monumental stairway, with a central building facing the stairs, and two lateral structures facing each other on both sides of the platform. This formal complex has been attributed to the earthly re-creation of the Celestial Hearth (modern-day constellation of Orion), or a stage for enthronement rituals. Most recently Triadic Groups have been interpreted as sanctuaries commemorating Maize God's resurrection upon the Flowery Mountain. Such complexes appear during the Late Preclassic times and gradually decrease in number until their disappearance in the Early Postclassic.\n\nOften the most important temples sat atop towering Maya pyramids, some of over two-hundred feet, such as that at El Mirador. The sanctuary on top commonly was heightened by a crest or roof comb. While recent discoveries point toward the extensive use of pyramids as tombs, the temples themselves seem to rarely, if ever, contain burials. \n\nAt Chichén Itzá there is a pyramid called El Castillo ('the castle'). With four stairways, each with 91 steps (with the upper platform they sum up to 365), and having other architectural elements appearing in astronomically significant numbers, it is a good example of Maya myth and astronomical cycles joined in architecture. Also referred to as the Pyramid of Kukulcán, the structure provides a remarkable display, observed by thousands of modern visitors at the equinoxes. The setting sun's rays are projected on the northern balustrade, create the illusion of a snake winding its way down the steps of the pyramid. The snake is composed of several triangle shapes giving it the appearance of a diamond back snake. At the base of the northern stairway there are massive snake head sculptures, making this effect even more persuasive. While it is a widespread belief that this light-and-shadow effect was achieved on purpose to record the equinoxes, the idea is highly unlikely: it has been shown that the phenomenon can be observed, without major changes, during several weeks around the equinoxes, making impossible to determine any date by observing this effect alone.\n\nMaya architecture is vastly different from the others in Meso-American cultures. The blend of mythology and astronomical events can be found in nearly all Maya palace or pyramid structures. One will also notice the heavy influence of the Toltecs in the architecture at Chichén Itzá. The Toltecs invaded the Maya and merged their cultural traditions around the year 1000.\n\nThe Maya were keen astronomers and had mapped out the phases of celestial objects, especially the Sun, Venus and the Moon. Many temples have doorways and other features aligning to celestial events. Round temples, often dedicated to Kukulcan, are perhaps those most often described as \"observatories\" by modern ruin tour-guides. It is now known, however, that many buildings of different types and uses were oriented on astronomical grounds, mostly to sunrises and sunsets on specific dates. The dates recorded are concentrated in four agriculturally significant seasons and tend to be separated by multiples of elementary periods of the calendrical system (13 and 20 days), suggesting that the orientations allowed the use of observational calendars intended to facilitate a proper scheduling of agricultural and associated ceremonial activities. Although most of the important Maya buildings were oriented on the basis of astronomical criteria, their primary functions were religious, residential or administrative; the label \"observatory\" applied to any structural type is thus hardly warranted.\n\nAs an integral aspect of the Mesoamerican lifestyle, the courts for their ritual ballgame were constructed throughout the Maya realm, often on a grand scale. The playing alleys of ballcourts were defined by two long walls. Courts built earlier in Maya history (as at Cobá) had sloped sides, while ones built later (as at Chichén Itzá) had vertical sides. Frequently, the ends were enclosed so as to create an -shaped court when viewed from above.\n\nWhen the Maya played games in the Ballcourts, the ball was made of solid rubber and was sometimes as much as a foot in diameter. It was passed between teams ranged on opposite ends of the court. The players could hit it only with their knees or hips, much like football or soccer today. Points could be scored when the opponents failed to return the ball correctly. In central Mexico, and in late times in Yucatán, rings of stone were set high up in the side walls of the court. It was considered a particular triumph for a player to knock the ball through the ring.\n\nThere are also cave sites that are important to the Maya. Maya cave sites include Jolja Cave, the cave site at Naj Tunich, the Candelaria Caves, and the Cave of the Witch. There are also cave creation myths among the Maya. Some cave sites are still used by the modern Maya in the Chiapas highlands in Mexico.\n\n\n. O'Kon, James A.,\"The Lost Secrets of Maya Technology\", New York. Career Press, 2012\n\n"}
{"id": "44935218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44935218", "title": "Mickie Caspi", "text": "Mickie Caspi\n\nMickie Caspi is an Israeli-American calligrapher and artist specializing in Judaica. \n\nCaspi was raised in Highland Park, Illinois by two artists, Thelma and Philip Padawer, who encouraged creativity from a young age. She lived in Israel on Kibbutz Nachshon for three years (1970–73). After returning to Highland Park, she studied art at Columbia College in Chicago.\n\nCaspi worked as an artist-in-residence at the Kohl Jewish Teacher Center in Wilmette, Illinois. After graduating from Columbia College in 1982, she returned to Israel, living on Kibbutz Harel and then in Jerusalem. She spent seven years as a freelance artist and calligrapher in Israel before returning to the United States in 1989 and establishing Caspi Cards & Art. Her hundreds of original designs have been reproduced on greeting cards, Judaic art prints, calendars and is known for her innovations as a Ketubah artist. She introduced the first pre-printed Same Sex Ketubah text in 1994 , predating Same-sex marriage laws in the United States.\n\nCaspi derives her inspiration from many sources, including traditional Jewish motifs, Persian and Arabic illumination, contemporary graphics, as well as art nouveau and art deco. Her art has been exhibited in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Chicago, San Francisco and Boston, and her illustrations have appeared in Hebrew children’s books and English publications. According to Marc Michael Epstein (scholar of religion, focusing on Jewish religious culture), \"Examples by American artist... Mickie Caspi are among the best and brightest examples of motifs often found in ketubot from the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.\"\n\nCaspi volunteered at the Horace Mann School in Newton, Massachusetts. In 2011, the Oakland Hebrew Day School used her artwork as a stepping off point for the students to create their own works of art. She has illustrated books including the 1987 reprint of The Sea's Gift, 1930 [Matnat Ha-Yam] by Levin Kipnis, which represented Israel at the International Children's Book Invitational.\n\nAn avid organic gardener, Caspi incorporates the beauty of nature into much of her artwork. Originally known as Micha Klugman, since her return to the United States she has used either Mickie Caspi or simply Mickie. She currently resides in Newton, Massachusetts, is married, and has three children and two grandsons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31843003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31843003", "title": "National Churches Trust", "text": "National Churches Trust\n\nThe National Churches Trust, formerly the Historic Churches Preservation Trust, is a British registered charity whose aim is \"promoting and supporting church buildings of historic, architectural and community value across the UK\". It carries out this aim by providing financial grants to repair and modernise church buildings, supporting projects to enable churches to remain open, collaborating with local Churches Trusts and volunteer bodies, providing practical advice, support and information, and working to promote public awareness of the needs of churches. Its forerunner was the Historic Churches Preservation Trust, whose functions it has taken over, together with those of the Incorporated Church Building Society.\n\nBy the middle of the 20th century, the fabric of many British church buildings was in a poor state of repair. This had followed socioeconomic changes in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, including population changes, followed by neglect during the Second World War. Matters came to a head in 1950 with public statements, including an editorial in \"The Times\". About this time the Pilgrim Trust declared that it was ceasing to give grants for repairs to individual churches. The Church of England Assembly (now the General Synod of the Church of England) established the Repair of Churches Commission to decide what should be done about the problem. This resulted in the creation of the Historic Churches Preservation Trust, which was registered as a charity in 1953. Its first Secretary and Executive Committee Chairman was Ivor Bulmer-Thomas, a Conservative politician, the role of Secretary being taken over later in 1953 by Hugh Llewellyn Jones. In order to ensure that the grants it gave were appropriate, local advisory panels of architects were established, later replaced by the Committee of Honorary Consultant Architects, who continued to advise the Trust until 2002. At the time of its foundation, it was estimated that a total of £4 million was necessary to fulfil its aims. Money was raised in a variety of ways, including appeals on radio and television, exhibitions, concerts, individual and corporate donations, and a benefit dinner. Support was received from charitable trusts, including the Pilgrim Trust, the Dulverton Trust, the Manifold Trust, and the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation.\n\nFrom the time of its creation, the Trust gave grants for the repair of both active and redundant churches, although the care of redundant churches was strictly beyond its remit. In 1960 the Bridges Commission recommended that \"a new fund be set up under a new Pastoral Measure to preserve churches of acknowledged historic or architectural worth\". The Pastoral Measure of 1968 led to the creation of the Redundant Churches Fund (later the Churches Conservation Trust), which provided money from both the Church of England and the State for the preservation of redundant churches.\n\nIt took until 1984 to raise the first £4 million. After that the size of donations tended to be larger. and by the end of 2005 a total of over £27 million had been raised. In 2000 alone over £2.2 million was received. The size of grants made to churches has varied greatly. Up to 2005 the smallest grant had been £33 4s 4d to a church in Mileham, Norfolk, in 1957, and the largest grants were of £100,000 each to a church in Portsea, Portsmouth, Hampshire, in 2000, and to Selby Abbey in 2005. The criterion for the award of a grant was \"for essential repairs to any place of worship (with the exception of cathedrals) over 100 years old which is of a recognized Christian denomination and is open for public worship\". Initially available only to churches in England, the scheme was extended to churches and chapels in Wales in 1987. The decision to award a grant is made by the Trust's Grants committee. Some of the churches that have been helped are now closed and have been declared redundant. These are now cared for by the Churches Conservation Trust. In 1983 the Historic Churches Preservation Trust took over the management of the Incorporated Church Building Society. This had been founded in 1818 to assist Anglican churches of any age, sometimes giving grants for new churches. In the early 1990s a Friends' scheme was instituted. In 2006 the Trust took over the functions of the Open Churches Trust. The Historic Churches Preservation Trust was succeeded by the National Churches Trust in 2007.\n\nThe National Churches Trust is a registered charity. The full definition of its objectives and activities are \"to promote the conservation, repair, maintenance, improvement, and reconstruction of churches (to mean any recognised Christian places of worship, chapel or meeting house in the UK), and of such monuments, fittings, stained glass, furniture, organs, bells, in such churches and to promote the building, development of churches in the United Kingdom\". In the year ending 31 December 2009 its income was £1,895,258, of which 87.4% came from voluntary sources, and it spent £2,712,564, of which 89.4% was used for its charitable activities. It employed eight people. The Trust is managed by a board of Trustees, and decisions to award grants are decided by the Grants Committee. Grants of £10,000 and above are made for urgent structural repairs, and grants of between £5,000 and £25,000 are made towards the installation of facilities for such functions as toilets and catering. Since 2005, the Trust has distributed over £9 million to over 1,000 churches. It supports church buildings of any denomination that are members of Churches Together in Britain and Ireland, and covers the whole of the United Kingdom. It does not own churches, and does not support redundant churches. It receives no funding from the Government or from church authorities. Its income is derived from individual donations, and from parishes, Trusts and Foundations, and from investment income. As of 2011 the Trust is not contributing towards the building of new places of worship. The Trust works in conjunction with a network of Local Churches Trusts that cover most of the country. Members of the public can become a Friend of the National Churches Trust.\n\nIn 2013 BBC journalist Huw Edwards was appointed as Vice-President of the trust.\n\nIn July 2017 the trust launched an online competition, \"Sacred Wales - Cymru Sanctaidd\", to find the favourite church or chapel in Wales from a list of 50 buildings suggested by religious and heritage organisations. The competition was devised to \"celebrate and raise awareness of Wales’ religious heritage\".\n\nThe King of Prussia Gold Medal for church architecture is awarded for innovative, high quality repair. It was the gift of King Frederick William IV of Prussia (1795 – 1861) to the Incorporated Church Building Society in 1857. The award has been made annually since the early 1980s, when the medal was re-discovered during an office move. The medal is held for one year and afterwards a silver replica is provided.\n\nThe Presidents' Award for church architecture dates from 1999 and is presented on behalf of the Presidents of the Ecclesiastical Architects and Surveyors Association and the National Churches Trust. The award comprises a chalice and paten, originally commissioned by the Incorporated Church Building Society, and made after World War II, to be loaned to a new or seriously war damaged church. They are lent to the winning parish to be held by them for the next year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14458641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14458641", "title": "National liberalism", "text": "National liberalism\n\nNational liberalism is a variant of liberalism, combining liberal policies and issues with elements of nationalism and/or a term used to describe a series of European political parties that have been especially active in the 19th century in several national contexts such as Central Europe, the Nordic countries and Southeast Europe.\n\nNational liberalism, whose goals were the pursuit of individual/economic freedom and national sovereignty, refers primarily to an ideology and a movement of the 19th century, but national-liberal parties exist also today.\n\nJózsef Antall, a historian and Christian democrat who served as the first post-communist Prime Minister of Hungary, described national liberalism as \"part and parcel of the emergence of the nation state\" in 19th-century Europe.\n\nAccording to Oskar Mulej, \"in terms of both ideologies and political party traditions it may be argued that in the Central European lands a distinct type of liberalism, peculiar to this region evolved through the nineteenth century\" and citing Maciej Janowski, \"the word 'national' acted as more or less synonymous with 'liberal'\" (\"'national' alone was sufficient to arouse suspicions of liberal associations\"). Also according to Mulej, in Southeast Europe \"'national liberals' also played visible if not central roles, but with rather different, region-specific characteristics, which to a considerable extent distinguished them from their Central European counterparts\".\n\nIn his book \"Up From Conservatism,\" Michael Lind defines \"national liberalism\" in a way that \"The Progressive\" describes as matching historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s use of the expression \"Vital Center\". Lind himself defines \"national liberalism\" as uniting \"moderate social conservatism with moderate economic liberalism\".\n\nGordon Smith, a leading scholar of comparative European politics, understands national liberalism as a political concept that lost popularity when the success of nationalist movements in creating nation states rendered it no longer necessary to specify that a liberal ideal, party or politician was \"national\".\n\nThe roots of national liberalism are to be found in the 19th century, when conservative liberalism and/or classical liberalism was the ideology of the political classes in most European countries and in particular those of Central Europe, then governed by hereditary monarchies.\n\nAt their origin, national liberals, although pro-business, were not necessarily advocates of free trade and economic liberalism per se and sometimes favoured cooperation between the government and the national industry, moderate levels of protectionism, the establishment of preferential custom unions, subsidies for infant industry or companies considered of national strategic importance and various forms of industrial planning.\n\nNational liberalism was popular in a number of countries including Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Romania during the 19th century. In Germany, Austria and Romania, national liberals and/or \"National Liberal\" parties were long in government. More specifically, in German-speaking countries national liberals were also in favour of a more authoritarian or conservative political regime because of the multi-ethnic character or heterogeneous nature of countries like the Austrian Empire (later officially renamed Austria-Hungary) or the newly created Germany under Chancellor Otto von Bismarck.\n\nIn 19th-century Germany, believers in national liberalism differed from liberal nationalists in that they believed in a more authoritarian presence in Europe and a strong German Empire. Liberal nationalists, such as Max Weber, were looking towards a democratic Germany in cooperation with the other European powers.\n\nAt the time of the German Empire, national liberalism was represented by the National Liberal Party (NLP), the largest in the Reichstag for several years. National Liberals supported Bismarck, who served as Chancellor from 1871 (unification of Germany) to 1890, until the late 1870s when the Chancellor reversed his early free trade policies, became a proponent of protectionism, opposed increasing parliamentary powers and ultimately pandered for the support of the German Conservative Party (largely representing the wealthy landowning elite Junkers of Prussia). Additionally, the NLP (which had obtained around 30% in the first three federal elections, including 30.1% in the 1871 federal election) suffered huge losses in the 1878 federal election and especially the 1881 federal election (when it was reduced to 14.6%). Later, the party experienced a steady decline in its share of vote, contextually with the rise of the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party at the turn of the century.\n\nDuring the Weimar Republic, the NLP was succeeded by the German People's Party (DVP), whose main leader was Gustav Stresemann, Chancellor (1923) and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1923–1929). The DVP, which was joined by some moderate elements of the Free Conservative Party (FKP) and the Economic Union (WV), was generally thought to represent the interests of the great German industrialists and has been classified as a national-liberal party by several observers. Its platform stressed Christian family values, secular education, lower tariffs, opposition to welfare spending and agrarian subsidies and hostility to \"Marxism\" (that is to say, both the Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party). After Stresemann's death, the DVP, whose ranks included several anti-republicans, veered sharply to the right.\n\nThe current Free Democratic Party (FDP), which was the joint successor of the DVP and the social liberal German Democratic Party (DDP), originally featured conservative and partly nationalist efforts, which were particularly strong in some state associations until the 1950s and more occasionally after that (an interesting example is that of Jürgen Möllemann, FDP leader in North Rhine-Westphalia in 1983–1994 and 1996–2002) and still includes a national-liberal faction, which holds a consistently Eurosceptic position, differently from the rest of the party. Some right-wing elements, including Sven Tritschler (former leader of the Stresemann Club), have more recently joined the Alternative for Germany (AfD), which has in turn been characterised by some observers as national liberal.\n\nIn Austria-Hungary, the Constitutional Party was the main representative of national liberalism. In Austria, national liberalism has remained the basis of one of the three \"Lager\", or ideological camps, in the country, dating back to the Revolutions of 1848 in the Austrian Empire. During the interwar period, the national-liberal camp was gathered into the Greater German People's Party. By 1938, with the \"Anschluss\" of Austria into Nazi Germany, the national-liberal camp had been swallowed whole by Austrian National Socialism and all other parties were eventually absorbed into Nazi totalitarianism. Both Socialists and Christian Socials were persecuted under the Nazi regime and the national-liberal camp was scarred after the war due to guilt by association with National Socialism.\n\nIn 1949, the Federation of Independents (VdU) was founded as a national-liberal alternative to the main Austrian parties. It incorporated an array of political movements, including free market liberals, populists, former Nazis and German nationalists, all of whom had been unable to join either of the two main parties. The VdU evolved into the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) in 1955–1956. When Jörg Haider was chosen as new FPÖ leader in 1986, the party started an ideological turn towards right-wing populism, which resulted in the split of most liberals, who formed the Liberal Forum (LiF), which took over the FPÖ's membership in the Liberal International and would later eventually merge into NEOS. Haider himself would split from the party and form the Alliance for the Future of Austria in 2005.\n\nIn Denmark, from the 1840s the core concept of national liberalism was that the nation and the state should have the same extent. National liberals supported the union the Kingdom of Denmark and the Duchy of Schleswig under a common constitutional framework. On the economy, the state should not interfere with trade and the national-liberal economic vision was transposed in the 1857 Law on Freedom of Business, which abolished the last remnants of the feudal monopolies which had previously formed the framework for the craft of the cities. Danish national liberals supported Scandinavism and thus Scandinavian unity.\n\nIn Sweden, in the 1860s liberals described themselves as national liberals (\"nationalliberaler\") and constituted a coalition of monarchists and liberal reformists in support of parliamentary reforms. Swedish national liberals also supported Scandinavism.\n\nIn the Grand Duchy of Finland, an autonomous part of the Russian Empire, where as many as 80% of the population was Protestant and Finnish-speaking, somewhat under 20% Protestant Swedish speakers (Sweden ruled Finland until 1809) and a small number Russian Orthodox, the term \"national liberal\" was used by the elite Swedish-speakers of the Svecoman movement who advocated liberal ideals, but wanted to keep Swedish as the dominant language, an idea opposed by Finnish-speaking nationalists of the Fennoman movement. The Svecoman movement gave birth to the Swedish Party, which was later renamed Swedish People's Party in Finland, which has since moved to mainstream liberalism and social liberalism and is often a party of government in the country.\n\nIn Russia, \"national liberalism\" was a 1990s movement claiming to be redefining \"liberal\" principles as understood in the Western tradition to produce a \"national liberalism\" better suited to Russian culture, being practically a variety of Russian nationalism.\n\nPresidential candidate in 2018 presidential election, Ksenia Sobchak of Civic Initiative, considers herself a national liberal.\n\nIn Romania, the National Liberal Party (PNL), founded in 1875, revived in 1990 and enlarged in 2014 (when it absorbed the Democratic Liberal Party, PDL), has also been part of the national-liberal tradition. Today, it is one of the country's two main parties. President Klaus Iohannis hails from it. The PNL is now mainly liberal-conservative and pro-Europeanist placed on the centre-right of the political spectrum concerning economy, society, culture, freedom of expression and civil liberties.\n\nFreedom and Solidarity (SaS), the liberal and libertarian main opposition party after the 2016 parliamentary election in Slovakia, has been shifting from liberalism to Euroscepticism and nationalism and/or combining liberalism and nationalism. As a fact, SaS is not a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party, but of the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, along with conservative and Eurosceptic parties. SaS leader Richard Sulík described himself both as a liberal and as a nationalist, but later corrected himself by saying that he was a liberal and a patriot while condemning chauvinism, racism and religious fanaticism and opposing the withdrawal of Slovakia from the European Union. However, the party has never been classified as national-liberal by third-party sources.\n\nIn Austria-Hungary the Young Czech Party, emerged in 1874 after a split from the Old Czech Party, was a national-liberal force. During Czechoslovakia's era (1918–1992), a few parties were described as national-liberal: Czechoslovak National Democracy, the National Labour Party and, after 1989, the Czech National Social Party.\n\nToday, the conservative Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in the Czech Republic has been described as a national-liberal party. The ODS is a member of the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, as Slovakia's Freedom and Solidarity, and the International Democrat Union.\n\nSeveral political parties have included \"national liberal\" in their names or ideology. A list is available at National Liberal Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54017", "title": "Ngo Dinh Diem", "text": "Ngo Dinh Diem\n\nNgô Đình Diệm (; ; 3 January 1901 – 2 November 1963) was a South Vietnamese politician. A former mandarin of the Nguyễn dynasty, he was named Prime Minister of the State of Vietnam by Head of State Bảo Đại in 1954. In October 1955, after winning a heavily rigged referendum, he deposed Bảo Đại and established the first Republic of Vietnam (RVN), with himself as president. He was a leader of the Catholic element and was opposed by Buddhists. In November 1963, after constant Buddhist protests and non-violent resistance, Diệm was assassinated during a CIA-backed coup d'état, along with his brother, Ngô Đình Nhu, by Nguyễn Văn Nhung, the aide of the leader of the Army of Republic of Vietnam (ARVN), General Dương Văn Minh. Diệm has been a controversial historical figure in historiography on the Vietnam War. Some historians portrayed him as a tool of the U.S. policymakers, some considered him an avatar of Vietnamese tradition. Nevertheless, some recent studies have portrayed Diệm from a more Vietnamese-centred perspective as a competent leader with his own vision on nation building and modernisation of South Vietnam.\n\nNgô Đình Diệm was born in 1901 in Quảng Bình, a province in central Vietnam. His family originated in Phú Cam Village, a Catholic village adjacent to Huế City. His clan had been among Vietnam's earliest Catholic converts in the 17th century. Diệm was given a saint's name at birth, Gioan Baotixita (a Vietnamized form of Jean Baptiste), following the custom of the Catholic Church. The Ngô-Đình family suffered under the anti-Catholic persecutions of Emperors Minh Mạng and Tự Đức. In 1880, while Diệm's father, Ngô Đình Khả (1850–1925), was studying in British Malaya, an anti-Catholic riot led by Buddhist monks almost wiped out the Ngô-Đình clan. Over 100 of the Ngô clan were \"burned alive in a church including Khả's parents, brothers, and sisters.\" Note that while he is usually referred to as Diệm in English, his family name is actually Ngô.\n\nNgô Đình Khả was educated in a Catholic school in British Malaya, where he learned English and studied the European-style curriculum. He was a devout Catholic and scrapped plans to become a Roman Catholic priest in the late 1870s. He worked for the commander of the French armed forces as an interpreter and took part in campaigns against anti-colonial rebels in the mountains of Tonkin during 1880. He rose to become a high-ranking Mandarin, the first headmaster of the National Academy in Huế (founded in 1896) and a counselor to Emperor Thành Thái under the French colonial regime. He was appointed minister of the rites and chamberlain and keeper of the eunuchs. Despite his collaboration with the French colonizers, Khả was \"motivated less by Francophilia than by certain reformist ambitions\". Like Phan Châu Trinh, Khả believed that independence from France could be achieved only after changes in Vietnamese politics, society and culture had occurred. In 1907, after the ouster of emperor Thành Thái, Khả resigned his appointments, withdrew from the imperial court, and became a farmer in the countryside.\n\nAfter the tragedy of his family, Khả decided to abandon preparation for the priesthood and married. After his first wife died childless, Khả remarried and had nine children—six sons and three daughters—by his second wife, Phạm Thị Thân. These were Ngô Đình Khôi, Ngô Đình Thị Giao, Ngô Đình Thục, Ngô Đình Diệm, Ngô Đình Thị Hiệp, Ngô Đình Thị Hoàng, Ngô Đình Nhu, Ngô Đình Cẩn, Ngô Đình Luyện. As a devout Roman Catholic, Khả took his entire family to Mass each morning and encouraged his sons to study for the priesthood. Having learned both Latin and classical Chinese, Khả strove to make sure his children were well educated in both Christian scriptures and Confucian classics. During his childhood, Diệm laboured in the family's rice fields while studying at a French Catholic primary school (Pellerin School) in Huế, and later entered a private school started by his father, where he studied French, Latin, and classical Chinese. At the age of fifteen he briefly followed his elder brother, Ngô Đình Thục, who would become Vietnam's highest-ranking Catholic bishop, into a monastery. Diệm swore himself to celibacy to prove his devotion to his faith, but found monastic life too rigorous and decided not to pursue a clerical career. According to Moyar, Diệm's personality was too independent to adhere to the discipline of the Church. Diem also inherited his father's antagonism toward the French colonialists who occupied his country.\n\nAt the end of his secondary schooling at Lycée Quốc học, the French lycée in Huế, Diem's outstanding examination results elicited the offer of a scholarship to study in Paris. He declined and, in 1918, enrolled at the prestigious School of Public Administration and Law in Hanoi, a French school that prepared young Vietnamese to serve in the colonial administration. It was there that he had the only romantic relationship of his life, when he fell in love with one of his teacher's daughters. After she chose to persist with her vocation, entering a convent, he remained celibate for the rest of his life. Diệm's family background and education, especially Catholicism and Confucianism, had influences on his life and career, on his thinking on politics, society, and history. According to Miller, Diệm \"displayed Christian piety in everything from his devotional practices to his habit of inserting references to the Bible into his speeches\"; he also enjoyed showing off his knowledge of classical Chinese texts.\n\nAfter graduating at the top of his class in 1921, Diệm followed in the footsteps of his eldest brother, Ngô Đình Khôi, joining the civil service in Thừa Thiên as a junior official. Starting from the lowest rank of mandarin, Diệm steadily rose over the next decade. He first served at the royal library in Huế, and within one year was the district chief in both Thừa Thiên and nearby Quảng Trị province, presiding over seventy villages. Diệm was promoted to be a provincial chief (Tuần phủ) in Ninh Thuận at the age of 28, overseeing 300 villages.\n\nDuring his career as a mandarin, Diệm was known for his workaholism and incorruptibility, and as a Catholic leader and nationalist. Catholic nationalism in Vietnam during the 1920s and 1930s facilitated Diệm's ascent in his bureaucratic career. Diệm's rise was also facilitated through Ngô Đình Khôi's marriage to the daughter of Nguyễn Hữu Bài (1863–1935), the Catholic head of the Council of Ministers at the Huế court and also supported the indigenization of the Vietnamese Church and more administrative powers to the monarchy. Nguyễn Hữu Bài was highly regarded among the French, and Diệm's religious and family ties impressed him and he became Diệm's patron. The French were impressed by his work ethic but were irritated by his frequent calls to grant more autonomy to Vietnam. Diệm replied that he contemplated resigning but encouragement from the populace convinced him to persist. In 1925, he first encountered communists distributing propaganda while riding horseback through the region near Quảng Trị. Revolted by calls for violent socialist revolution contained in the propaganda leaflets, Diệm involved himself in anti-communist activities for the first time, printing his own pamphlets.\n\nIn 1929, he was promoted to the governorship of Bình Thuận Province and was known for his work ethic. In 1930 and 1931, he helped the French suppress the first peasant revolts organized by the communists. According to Fall, Diệm put the revolution down because he thought it could not sweep out the French, but might threaten the leadership of the mandarins. In 1933, with the ascension of Bảo Đại to the throne, Diệm accepted Bảo Đại's invitation to be his interior minister following lobbying by Nguyễn Hữu Bài. Soon after his appointment, Diệm headed a commission to advise on potential administration reforms. After calling for the French to introduce a Vietnamese legislature and many other political reforms, he resigned after three months in office when his proposals were rejected. Diệm denounced Emperor Bảo Đại as \"nothing but an instrument in the hands of the French,\" and renounced his decorations and titles from Bảo Đại. The French then threatened him with arrest and exile.\n\nFor the next decade, Diệm lived as a private citizen with his family in Huế, although he was kept under surveillance. He spent his time reading, meditating, attending church, gardening, hunting, and in amateur photography. Diệm also conducted extensive nationalist activities during those 21 years, engaging in meetings and correspondence with various leading Vietnamese revolutionaries, such as his friend, Phan Bội Châu, a Vietnamese anti-colonial activist, whom Diệm respected for his knowledge of Confucianism and argued that Confucianism's teachings could be applied to a modern Vietnam. With the start of the Second World War in the Pacific, seeing an opportunity for Vietnam to challenge French colonization, he attempted to persuade the Japanese forces to declare independence for Vietnam in 1942 but was ignored. Diệm also tried to establish relationships with Japanese diplomats, army officers, and intelligence operatives who supported Vietnam's independence. In 1943, Diệm's Japanese friends helped him to contact Prince Cường Để, an anti-colonial activist, who was in exile in Japan. After contacting Cường Để, Diệm formed a secret political party, the Association for the Restoration of Great Vietnam (Việt Nam Đại Việt Phục Hưng Hội), which was dominated by his Catholic allies in Hue. When its existence was discovered in the summer of 1944, the French declared Diệm to be a subversive and ordered his arrest. He flew to Saigon under Japanese military protection, staying there until the end of WWII.\n\nIn 1945, after the coup against French colonial rule, the Japanese offered Diệm the post of prime minister in the Empire of Vietnam under Bảo Đại, which they organized on leaving the country. He declined initially, but reconsidered his decision and attempted to reverse the refusal. However, Bảo Đại had already given the post to Trần Trọng Kim. In September 1945, after the Japanese withdrawal, Hồ Chí Minh proclaimed the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and in the Northern half of Vietnam, his Việt Minh began fighting the French. Diệm attempted to travel to Huế to dissuade Bảo Đại from joining Hồ, but was arrested by the Việt Minh along the way and exiled to a highland village near the border. He might have died of malaria, dysentery, and influenza had the local tribesmen not nursed him back to health. Six months later, he was taken to meet Hồ, who recognized Diệm's virtues and, wanting to extend the support for his new government, asked Diệm to be minister of the interior. Diệm refused to join the Việt Minh, assailing Hồ for the murder of his brother Ngô Đình Khôi by Việt Minh cadres.\n\nDuring the Indochina War, Diệm and other non-communist nationalists had to face a dilemma: they did not want to restore colonial rule and did not want to support the Việt Minh. Diệm proclaimed his neutrality and attempted to establish a Third Force movement that was both anti-colonialist and anti-communist In 1947, he became the founder and chief of the National Union Bloc (Khối Quốc Gia Liên Hiệp) and then folded it into the Vietnam National Rally (Việt Nam Quốc Gia Liên Hiệp), which united non-communist Vietnamese nationalists. He also established relationships with some leading Vietnamese anti-communists like Nguyễn Tôn Hoàn (1917–2001), a fellow Catholic and political activist. His other allies and advisors were dominated by Catholics, especially his family members and their friends.\n\nDiệm also secretly maintained contact with high-ranking leaders of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, attempting to convince them to leave Hồ Chí Minh's government and join him. At the same time, he lobbied French colonial officials for a \"true independence\" for Vietnam, Diệm was disappointed when in June 1948, Bảo Đại signed an agreement to grant Vietnam status as an \"associated state\" within the French Union, which allowed France to maintain its diplomatic, economic, and military policies in Vietnam. In the meantime, the French had created the State of Vietnam and Diệm refused Bảo Đại's offer to become the Prime Minister. On 16 June 1949, he then published a new manifesto in newspapers proclaiming a third force different from Vietminh and Bảo Đại, but it raised little interest and further, his statement provided evidence to both the French and Việt Minh that Diệm was a dangerous rival. In 1950, the Việt Minh lost patience and sentenced him to death in absentia, and the French refused to protect him. Hồ Chí Minh's cadres tried to assassinate him while he was traveling to visit his elder brother Thục, bishop of the Vĩnh Long diocese in the Mekong Delta. Recognizing his political status, Diệm decided to leave Vietnam in 1950.\n\nAccording to Miller, during his early career, there were at least three ideologies which influenced Diệm's social and political views in the 1920s and 1930s. The first of these was Catholic nationalism, which Diệm inherited from his family's tradition, especially from Cardinal Ngô Đình Thục, his brother, and Nguyễn Hữu Bài, who advised him to \"return the seal\" in 1933 to oppose French policies. The second was Diệm's understanding of Confucianism, especially through his friendship with Phan Bội Châu who argued that Confucianism's teachings could be applied to a modern Vietnam. Lastly, instructed by Ngô Đình Nhu, Diệm began to examine Personalism, which originated from French Catholicism's philosophy and then applied this doctrine as the main ideology of his regime.\n\nDiệm applied for permission to travel to Rome for the Holy Year celebrations at the Vatican. After gaining French permission, he left in August 1950 with his older brother, Bishop Ngô Đình Thục. Before going to Europe, Diệm went to Japan, where he met with Prince Cường Để, his former ally, and discussed Cường Để's efforts to return to Vietnam and his capacity to play some roles in his homeland. Diệm's friend also managed to organize a meeting between him and Wesley Fishel, an American political science professor at the University of California, who was working for the CIA in Japan. Fishel was a proponent of the anti-colonial, anti-communist third force doctrine in Asia and was impressed with Diệm and helped him organize connections in the United States. In 1951, Diệm flew to the United States to seek the support of government officials. Nevertheless, Diệm was not successful in winning US support for Vietnamese anti-communists.\n\nIn Rome, Diệm obtained an audience with Pope Pius XII at the Vatican before undertaking further lobbying across Europe. He also met with French and Vietnamese officials in Paris and sent a message indicating that he was willing to be the Prime Minister of the State of Vietnam to Bảo Đại. But Bảo Đại then refused to meet him. Diệm returned to the United States to continue building support among Americans. Nonetheless, to Americans, the fact that Diệm was an anti-communist was not enough to distinguish him from Bảo Đại and other State of Vietnam leaders. Some American officials worried that his devout Catholicism could hinder his ability to mobilize support in a predominantly non-Catholic country. Diệm recognized that concern and broadened his lobbying efforts to include a development focus in addition to anti-communism and religious factors. Diệm was motivated by the knowledge that the US was enthusiastic in applying their technology and knowledge to modernize postcolonial countries. With the help of Fishel, then at Michigan State University (MSU), Diệm was appointed as a consultant to MSU's Government Research Bureau. MSU was administering government-sponsored assistance programs for cold war allies, and Diệm helped Fishel to lay the foundation for a program later implemented in South Vietnam, the Michigan State University Vietnam Advisory Group.\n\nThe Americans' assessments of Diệm were varied. Some were unimpressed with him, some admired him. Diệm gained favor with some high-ranking officials, such as Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, Roman Catholic cardinal Francis Spellman, Representative Mike Mansfield of Montana, and Representative John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts along with numerous journalists, academics, and the legendary spy chief of the CIA William J. Donovan. Although he did not succeed in winning official support from the US, his personal interactions with American political leaders promised the prospect of gaining more support in the future. Mansfield remembered after the luncheon with Diệm held on 8 May 1953, he felt that \"if anyone could hold South Vietnam, it was somebody like Ngô Đình Diệm\".\n\nDuring Diệm's exile, his brothers Ngô Đình Nhu, Ngô Đình Cẩn, and Ngô Đình Luyện played important roles in helping him to build international and internal networks and support in different ways for his return to Vietnam. In the early 1950s, Nhu established the Cần Lao Party, which played a key role in helping Diệm attain and consolidate his power.\n\nUntil 1953, the State of Vietnam was nominally independent from Paris. Since dissatisfaction with France and Bảo Đại was rising among non-communist nationalists, and support from non-communist nationalists and Diệm's allies was rising for his \"true independence\" point of view, Diệm sensed that it was time for him to come to power in Vietnam.\n\nIn early 1954, Bảo Đại offered Diệm the position of Prime Minister in the new government in Vietnam. In May 1954, the French surrendered at Điện Biên Phủ and the Geneva Conference began in April 1954. On 16 June 1954, Diệm met with Bảo Đại in France and agreed to be the Prime Minister if Bảo Đại would give him military and civilian control. On 25 June 1954, Diệm returned from exile, arriving at Tân Sơn Nhứt airport in Saigon. On 7 July 1954, Diệm established his new government with a cabinet of 18 people.\nOn 21 July 1954, the Geneva accords temporarily partitioned Vietnam at the 17th parallel, pending elections in 1956 to reunify the country. The Democratic Republic of Vietnam controlled the north, while the French-backed State of Vietnam controlled the south with Diệm as the Prime Minister. Diệm criticized the French for abandoning North Vietnam to the Communists at Geneva, claimed that the terms did not represent the will of the Vietnamese people, and refused French suggestions to include more pro-French officials in the government.\n\nIn the first period of his premiership, Diệm did not have much power in the government; he lacked control of the military and police forces, and the civil system's key positions were still held by French officials. He also could not control the Bank of Indochina. Besides, Diệm had to face massive obstacles: refugee issues; the French colonists wanting to remove Diệm to protect France's interest in South Vietnam; general Nguyễn Văn Hinh, a Francophile, the leader of National Army was ready to oust Diệm; the leaders of the Hòa Hảo and Cao Đài sectarian armies wanted positions in Diệm's cabinet and complete administrative control over the areas in which they had large numbers of followers; and the major threat of Bình Xuyên, an organized crime syndicate that controlled the National Police led by Lê Văn Viễn, whose power was focused in Saigon In summer 1954, the three organizations controlled approximately one-third of the territory and population of South Vietnam. In that situation, besides his own political skills, Diệm had to trust in his relatives and the backing of his American supporters to overcome the obstacles and neutralize his opponents.\n\nThe Geneva accords allowed for freedom of movement between the two zones until October 1954; this put a large strain on the south. Diệm had only expected 10,000 refugees, but by August, there were more than 200,000 waiting for evacuation from Hanoi and Hải Phòng. Nevertheless, the migration helped to strengthen Diệm's political base of support. To deal with the refugee situation, Diem's government arranged for their relocation into fertile and under-populated provinces in the western Mekong Delta. The Diệm regime also provided them with food and shelter, farm tools, and housing material. The government also dug irrigation canals, built dikes, and dredged swamp-lands to help stabilise their lives.\n\nIn August 1954, Diệm also had to face the \"Hinh crisis\" when Nguyễn Văn Hinh launched a series of public attacks on Diệm, proclaiming that South Vietnam needed a \"strong and popular\" leader. Hinh also bragged that he was preparing a coup. However, at the end of 1954, Diệm successfully forced Hinh to resign from his post. Hinh had to flee to Paris and hand over his command of the national army to general Nguyễn Văn Vỹ. But the National Army officers favoured Diệm's leadership over General Vỹ, which forced him to flee to Paris. Despite the failure of Hinh's alleged coup, the French continued to encourage Diệm's enemies in an attempt to destabilize him.\n\nOn 31 December 1954, Diệm established the National Bank of Vietnam and replaced the Indochinese banknotes with new Vietnamese banknotes. In early 1955, although American advisors encouraged Diệm to negotiate with the leaders of the political-religious forces who threatened to overthrow his position and to forge an anti-communist bloc, he was determined to attack his enemies to consolidate his power. In April 1955, Diệm's army forces took most of Bình Xuyên's posts in Saigon after a victory in the Battle of Saigon. Within a few months, Diệm's troops wiped out the Bình Xuyên's remnants, leaving only a few small bands, who then joined forces with the communists. The failure of Bình Xuyên marked the end of French efforts to remove Diệm. After the defeat of Bình Xuyên, the authority and prestige of Diệm's government increased. Most of the Cao Đài leaders chose to rally to Diệm's government. Diệm then dismantled the private armies of the Cao Đài and Hòa Hảo religious sects. By the end of 1955, Diệm had almost taken control of South Vietnam, and his government was stronger than ever before. In April 1956, along with the capture of Ba Cụt, the leader of the last Hòa Hảo rebels, Diệm almost subdued all of his non-communist enemies, and could focus on his Vietnamese communist opponents. According to Miller, Diệm's capacity in subduing his enemies and consolidating his power strengthened US support of his government, although the US government had planned to withdraw its backing from Diệm during his early difficult years of leadership.\n\nIn South Vietnam, a referendum was scheduled for 23 October 1955 to determine the future direction of the south, in which the people would choose Diệm or Bảo Đại as the leader of South Vietnam. During the election, Diệm's brother Ngô Đình Nhu and the Cần Lao Party supplied Diệm's electoral base in organizing and supervising the elections, especially the propaganda campaign for destroying Bảo Đại's reputation. Supporters of Bảo Đại were not allowed to campaign. Official results showed 98.2 per cent of voters favoured Ngô Đình Diệm, an implausibly high result that was condemned as fraudulent. The total number of votes far exceeded the number of registered voters by over 380,000, further evidence that the referendum was heavily rigged. For example, only 450,000 voters were registered in Saigon, but 605,025 were said to have voted for Diệm.\n\nOn 26 October 1955, Diệm proclaimed the formation of the Republic of Vietnam, with himself as its first President, although only until 26 October 1956, the first Constitution provided articles to establish the republic and organize the election of its president. The 1954 Geneva Accords prescribed elections to reunify the country in 1956. Diệm refused to hold these elections, claiming that a free election was not possible in the North. According to Taylor, Diệm's rejection of the Geneva accords was a way of objecting to the French colonization of Vietnam. Diệm's disposition of Bảo Đại and the establishment of the First Republic of Vietnam was a way to claim Vietnamese independence from France. At the same time, the first Constitution of the Republic of Vietnam was promulgated. According to the Constitution, Diệm had almost absolute power over South Vietnam. His governance style became increasingly dictatorial over time.\n\nThe Can Lao Party played a key role in Diệm's regime. Initially, the party acted secretly based on a network of cells, and each member only knew the identities of a few other members. When necessary, the Party could assume the role of the government. After 1954, the existence of the party was recognized, but its activities were hidden from public view. In the early 1950s, Diệm and Nhu used the party to mobilize support for Diệm's political movements. According to the decree 116/BNV/CT of the Republic of Vietnam, the Can Lao Party was established on 2 September 1954. Personalism (\"Vietnamese: Chủ nghĩa nhân vị\") officially became the basic doctrine of Diệm's regime since the Constitution's preface declared that \"Building Politics, Economy, Society, Culture for the people based on respecting Personalism\".\n\nAccording to Miller, democracy, to Diệm, was rooted in his dual identity as Confucian and Catholic, and was associated with communitarianism and the doctrine of Personalism. He defined democracy as \"a social ethos based on certain sense of moral duty\", not in the US sense of \"political right\" or political pluralism and in the context of an Asian country like Vietnam, Confucian values were relevant to deal with contemporary problems in politics, governance, and social change. In this sense, Diệm was not a reactionary mandarin lacking an interest in democracy as he has been portrayed by some scholars. His way of thinking about democracy became a key factor of his approach to political and administrative reform. On 4 March 1956, the elections for the first RVN National Assembly were held in a more free and fair manner than the 1955 referendum.\n\nHowever, Diệm's regime of \"democratic one man rule\" faced increasing difficulties. After coming under pressure from within Vietnam and from the United States, Diệm agreed to hold legislative elections in August 1959 for South Vietnam. But in reality, newspapers were not allowed to publish names of independent candidates or their policies, and political meetings exceeding five people were prohibited. Candidates who ran against government-supported opponents faced harassment and intimidation. In rural areas, candidates who ran were threatened using charges of conspiracy with the Việt Cộng, which carried the death penalty. Phan Quang Đán, the government's most prominent critic, was allowed to run. Despite the deployment of 8,000 ARVN plainclothes troops into his district to vote, Đán still won by a ratio of 6–1. The busing of soldiers occurred across the country, and when the new assembly convened, Đán was arrested.\n\nIn May 1961, U.S. Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson visited Saigon and enthusiastically declared Diệm the \"Winston Churchill of Asia.\" Asked why he had made the comment, Johnson replied, \"Diệm's the only boy we got out there.\" Johnson assured Diệm of more aid in molding a fighting force that could resist the communists.\n\nDuring his presidency, Diệm imposed programs to reform Saigon society in accordance with Catholic and Confucian values. Brothels and opium dens were closed, divorce and abortion were made illegal, and adultery laws were strengthened. Besides, Diệm's government established many schools and universities, such as the National Technical Center at Phú Thọ in 1957, the University of Saigon (1956), the University of Hue (1957), and the University of Dalat (1957) Diệm also paid attention to the preservation of Vietnamese traditional culture. Diệm restored and organized some traditional festivals, such as Hung kings ancestor festival (No, but on the contrary, Ngo Dinh Diệm during his nine years in power did not allow any celebration of the Hung kings, the Vietnam National founding fathers, and), The Trưng sisters festival ... According to Diệm, the values of traditional culture, along with Catholic and Confucian values were powerful in the fight against Materialism.\n\nRegarding economic development, Diệm and Nhu, in the political program of the Can Lao party and National Revolutionary Movement, pointed out the key factors of the RVN economy: a developed and independent economy, support for local capitalists, stabilized currency and reduced budget deficits; enhanced building infrastructure to meet military needs and create a prosperous South Vietnam. In 1957, Diệm's government suggested the 5-year plan (1957–1961), which aimed at expanding cultivated area to 20 percent and improving agricultural production to 25%, restoring exploitative industry and developing infrastructure. On 31 December 1955, Diệm promulgated Decree 48 on RVN independence on currency and banknotes (This is not in accordance with the first sentence of the last paragraph under \"Being Prime Minister and consolidation of power\" subtitle, with ref 54).\n\nDiệm's government also encouraged the development of handicrafts, industry, and commerce. In October 1957, Diệm established the Center for Technological Development for Investment, Instruction, and Cooperation and supported private technological activities to gradually diminish the role of foreign capitalists, especially French capitalists in industry and to enhance the role of indigenous capitalists in the RVN economy. In 1961, Diệm suggested the second 5-year plan (1962–1966) to continue the first 5-year plan. During the first Republic of Vietnam, some indigenous industrial zones or factories were founded, such as the Cogido paper factory in An Hảo (1961), Vinatexco and Vimytex textile factories, the Khánh Hội glassware factory, the Hà Tiên and Thủ Đức cement factories, the Đa Nhim hydroelectric facility (1961), Đà Lạt nuclear research centre (1963), and the Biên Hòa industrial zone (1963). During 1956–1960, Diệm built a relatively stable RVN with a stable economy along with development of infrastructure and people's standards of living due to export of home comforts. Nevertheless, Diệm also admitted the dependence of RVN's economy on US assistance: \"Today, the country is not self-sufficient. We can say that foreign assistance is a kind of compensation for the services our people have provided to the free world to protect SEA market, and to fight against manipulations of international communism\".\n\nDuring Diệm's reign, the Commissariat General for Civic Action (\"Vietnamese: Công Dân vụ\") was established in March 1955 to \"improve the intellectual level of the rural population and to raise the standard of living in rural areas in view to setting up a democratic basis and to promote a rural and material rearmament among the people\". The Civic Action was considered a practical tool of Diệm's government to serve \"the power vacuum\" and make a rural influence for Diệm's government in countryside due to the departure of Việt Minh cadres after the Geneva Accords (1954). Steward's study provides a clearer picture of Diệm's domestic policies and a further understanding of his government's efforts in reaching and connecting with local communities in South Vietnam that shows \"an indigenous initiative\" of South Vietnam government in building an independent and viable nation.\n\nLand Reform: In South Vietnam, especially in Mekong Delta, landholdings in rural areas were concentrated in small number of rich landlord families. Thus, it was urgent to implement land reform in South Vietnam. Diệm had two attempts to control the excesses of the land tenancy system by promulgating the Ordinance 2 on 28 January 1955 to reduce land rent between 15% to 25% of the average harvest and the Ordinance 7 on 5 February 1955 to protect the rights of tenants on new and abandoned land and enhancing cultivation. In October 1956, with the urge from Wolf Ladejinsky, Diệm's personal adviser on agrarian reform, Diệm promulgated a more serious ordinance on the land reform, in which he proclaimed a \"land to the tiller\" program to put a relatively high 100 hectares limit on rice land and 15 hectares for ancestral worship. However, this measure had no real effect because many landlords evaded the redistribution by transferring the property to the name of family members. Besides, during the 1946–54 war against the French Union forces, the Việt Minh had gained control of parts of southern Vietnam, initiated land reform, confiscated landlords' land and distributed it to the peasants. Additionally, the ceiling limit was more than 30 times that allowed in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, and the 370,000 acres (1,500 km) of the Catholic Church's landownings in Vietnam were exempted. The political, social, and economic influences of the land reform was minimal. From 1957 to 1963, only 50 percent of expropriated land was redistributed, and only 100,000 out of approximately one million tenant farmers in South Vietnam benefited from the reform.\n\nResettlement: According to Miller, Diệm, who described tenant farmer as \"real proletariat\" and pursued the goal of \"middle peasantization\", was not a beholden of large landowners, instead of vigorously implementing Land Reform, Diệm had his own vision in Vietnamese rural development based on resettlement, which focused on redistribution of people (rather than land), could reduce overpopulation and lead to many benefits in socio-economic transformation as well as military affairs and security, especially anti-communist infiltration. Moreover, Diệm was ambitious to envision Resettlement as a tactic to practice the government's ideological goals. The US and Diệm's differences over nation building in countryside shaped the clashes in their alliance.\n\nThe Cái Sắn resettlement project: In late 1955, with the help of US material support and expertise, Diệm's government implemented the project Cái Sắn in An Giang province, which aimed to resettle one hundred thousand northern refugees.\n\nLand Development program (\"Khu dinh điền\"): In early 1957, Diệm started a new program called the \"Land Development\" to relocate poor inhabitants, demobilized soldiers, and minority ethnic groups in central and southern Vietnam into abandoned or unused land in Mekong Delta and Central Highland, and cultivating technological and scientific achievements to transform South Vietnam and ensure security and prevent communist infiltration. Diệm believed that the program would help improve civilians' lives, teach them the values of being self-reliant and hard working. At the end of 1963, the program had built more than two hundred settlements for a quarter of a million people. Nevertheless, the lacks of conditions in these areas along with the corruption and mercilessness of local officials failed the program.\n\nAgroville program (\"khu trù mật\"): During late 1959 and early 1960, motivated by the idea of population regroupment, Diệm introduced the Agroville Program, which he intended to physically relocate residents who lived in remote and isolated regions in Mekong delta into new settlements in \"dense and prosperous areas\"—proposing to offer them urban modernity and amenities without leaving their farms, and to keep them far away from the communists. Nonetheless, by late 1960, Diệm had to admit that the program's objective failed since the residents were not happy with the program and the communists infiltrated the program, and he had to discard it.\n\nAccording to Miller, The US and Diệm's disagreement in their approaches to agrarian reform in countryside made their alliance \"moved steadily from bad to worse\".\n\nDuring his presidency, Diệm strongly focused on his central concern: internal security to protect his regime as well as maintain order and social change: staunch anti-subversion and anti-rebellion policies. After the Bình Xuyên was defeated and the Hòa Hảo, Cao Đài were subdued, Diệm concentrated on his most serious threat: the communists. Diệm's main measures for internal security were threats, punishment and intimidation. According to Gabriel Kolko about 12,000 suspected opponents of Diệm were killed between 1955 and 1957 and by the end of 1958 an estimated 40,000 political prisoners had been jailed. At the end of 1959, Diệm was able to entirely control each family and the communists had to suffer their \"darkest period\" in their history. The number of membership declined by two thirds and had almost no power in the countryside of South Vietnam. Diệm's repression extended beyond communists to anti-communist dissidents and anti-corruption whistleblowers. In 1956, after the \"Anti-Communist Denunciation Campaign\", Diệm issued Ordinance No. 6, which placed anyone who was considered a threat to the state and public order in jail or house arrest.\n\nNevertheless, Diệm's hard policies led to fear and resentment in many quarters in South Vietnam and negatively affected his relations with the US in terms of counter-insurgent methods. On 22 February 1957, when Diệm delivered a speech at an agricultural fair in Buôn Ma Thuột, a communist cadre named Hà Minh Tri attempted to assassinate the president. He approached Diệm and fired a pistol from close range, but missed, hitting the Secretary for Agrarian Reform's left arm. The weapon jammed and security overpowered Tri before he was able to fire another shot. Diệm was unmoved by the incident. The assassination was the response of the desperation of the communists to Diệm's relentless anti-communist policies.\n\nAs opposition to Diệm's rule in South Vietnam grew, a low-level insurgency began to take shape there in 1957. Finally, in January 1959, under pressure from southern Viet Cong cadres who were being successfully targeted by Diệm's secret police, Hanoi's Central Committee issued a secret resolution authorizing the use of armed insurgency in the South with supplies and troops from the North. On 20 December 1960, under instructions from Hanoi, southern communists established the Viet Cong (NLF) in order to overthrow the government of the south. On 11 November 1960, \"a failed coup attempt against President Ngô Đình Diệm of South Vietnam was led by Lieutenant Colonel Vương Văn Đông and Colonel Nguyễn Chánh Thi of the Airborne Division of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN)\". There was a further attempt to assassinate Diệm and his family in February 1962 when two air force officers—acting in unison—bombarded the Presidential Palace.\n\nIn 1962, the cornerstone of Diệm's counterinsurgency effort – the Strategic Hamlet Program (\"Vietnamese:\" \"Ấp Chiến lược\"), \"the last and most ambitious of Diem's government's nation building schemes\", was implemented, calling for the consolidation of 14,000 villages of South Vietnam into 11,000 secure hamlets, each with its own houses, schools, wells, and watchtowers supported by South Vietnamese government. The hamlets were intended to isolate the National Liberation Front (NLF) from the villages, their source for recruiting soldiers, supplies, and information, and to transform the countryside. In the end, because of many shortcomings, the Strategic Hamlet Program was not as successful as had been expected and was cancelled after the assassination of Diệm. However, according to Miller, the Strategic Hamlet Program created a remarkable turnabout in Diệm's regime in their war against communism.\n\nMany historians have claimed that Diệm's religious policies favored Catholics and that he persecuted many Buddhists. The distribution of weapons to village self-defense militias intended to repel Việt Cộng guerrillas saw weapons only given to Catholics. Some Buddhist villages converted en masse to Catholicism in order to receive aid or to avoid being forcibly resettled by Diệm's regime. The Catholic Church was the largest landowner in the country, and the \"private\" status imposed on Buddhism by the French required official permission to conduct public Buddhist activities and was never repealed by Diệm. Catholics were also \"de facto\" exempt from the \"corvée\" labor that the government obliged all citizens to perform; US aid was disproportionately distributed to Catholic majority villages. Nonetheless, Diệm had contributed to Buddhist communities in South Vietnam by giving them permission to carry out activities that were banned by French and supported money for Buddhist schools, ceremonies, and building more pagodas. Among eighteen members of Diệm cabinet ministers, there were five Catholics, five Confucians, and eight Buddhists, including a vice-president and a foreign minister. Only three of the top nineteen military officials were Catholics.\n\nIf Diệm's government has always denied any allegation of persecution against Buddhists and presented these immolations and revolts as the fruit of infiltration of communist guerrillas disguised as bonzes; some French-Vietnamese authors support this thesis of infiltration, which then empowered a large instrumentalization of these disorders by the American and North Vietnamese propaganda in order to destabilize and demonize the South Vietnamese government. Police raids have enabled the South Vietnamese authorities to find out presence of war's weapons in a number of pagodas, resulting in the closure of 12 of them.\n\nThe regime's relations with the United States worsened during 1963, as discontent among South Vietnam's Buddhist majority was simultaneously heightened. In May, in the heavily Buddhist central city of Huế, where Diệm's elder brother was the Catholic Archbishop, the Buddhist majority was prohibited from displaying Buddhist flags during Vesak celebrations commemorating the birth of Gautama Buddha when the government cited a regulation prohibiting the display of non-government flags. A few days earlier, however, a Catholic flag flew at the 25th commemoration for Ngô Đình Thục's elevation to the rank of bishop. According to Miller, Diệm then proclaimed the flag embargo because he was annoyed with the commemoration for Thục. However, the ban on religious flag led to a protest led by Thích Trí Quang against the government, which was suppressed by Diệm's forces, and unarmed civilians were killed in the clash. Diệm and his supporters blamed the Việt Cộng for the deaths and claimed the protesters were responsible for the violence. Although the provincial chief expressed sorrow for the killings and offered to compensate the victims' families, they resolutely denied that government forces were responsible for the killings and blamed the Viet Cong. According to Diệm, it was the communists who threw a grenade into the crowd.\n\nThe Buddhists pushed for a five-point agreement: freedom to fly religious flags, an end to arbitrary arrests, compensation for the Huế victims, punishment for the officials responsible, and religious equality. Diệm then banned demonstrations and ordered his forces to arrest those who engaged in civil disobedience. On 3 June 1963, protesters attempted to march towards the Từ Đàm pagoda. Six waves of ARVN tear gas and attack dogs failed to disperse the crowds. Finally, brownish-red liquid chemicals were doused on praying protesters, resulting in 67 being hospitalised for chemical injuries. A curfew was subsequently enacted.\n\nThe turning point came in June when a Buddhist monk, Thích Quảng Đức, set himself on fire in the middle of a busy Saigon intersection in protest of Diệm's policies; photos of this event were disseminated around the world, and for many people these pictures came to represent the failure of Diệm's government. A number of other monks publicly self-immolated, and the US grew increasingly frustrated with the unpopular leader's public image in both Vietnam and the United States. Diệm used his conventional anti-communist argument, identifying the dissenters as communists. As demonstrations against his government continued throughout the summer, the special forces loyal to Diệm's brother, Nhu, conducted an August raid of the Xá Lợi pagoda in Saigon. Pagodas were vandalised, monks beaten, and the cremated remains of Quảng Đức, which included his heart, a religious relic, were confiscated. Simultaneous raids were carried out across the country, with the Từ Đàm pagoda in Huế looted, the statue of Gautama Buddha demolished, and the body of a deceased monk confiscated. When the populace came to the defense of the monks, the resulting clashes saw 30 civilians killed and 200 wounded. In all 1,400 monks were arrested, and some thirty were injured across the country. The United States indicated its disapproval of Diệm's administration when ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. visited the pagoda. No further mass Buddhist protests occurred during the remainder of Diệm's rule (which would amount to less than five months).\n\nMadame Nhu Trần Lệ Xuân, Nhu's wife, inflamed the situation by mockingly applauding the suicides, stating, \"If the Buddhists want to have another barbecue, I will be glad to supply the gasoline.\" The pagoda raids stoked widespread public disquiet in Saigon. Students at Saigon University boycotted classes and rioted, which led to arrests, imprisonments, and the closure of the university; this was repeated at Huế University. When high school students demonstrated, Diệm arrested them as well; over 1,000 students from Saigon's leading high school, most of them children of Saigon civil servants, were sent to re-education camps, including, reportedly, children as young as five, on charges of anti-government graffiti. Diệm's foreign minister Vũ Văn Mẫu resigned, shaving his head like a Buddhist monk in protest. When he attempted to leave the country on a religious pilgrimage to India, he was detained and kept under house arrest.\n\nThere have been many interpretations of the Buddhist crisis and the immolation of Thích Quảng Đức in 1963. Relating the events to the larger context of Vietnamese Buddhism in the twentieth century and looking at the interactions between Diệm and Buddhist groups, the Buddhist protests during Diệm's regime were not only the struggles for discrimination in religious practices and religious freedom, but also the resistance of Vietnamese Buddhism to Diệm's nation building policies centered by Personalist revolution that Buddhists considered a threat to the revival of Vietnamese Buddhist power. Until the end of his life, Diệm, along with his brother Nhu still believed that their nation building was successful and they could resolve the Buddhist crisis in their own way, like what they had done with the Hinh crisis in 1954 and the struggle with the Bình Xuyên in 1955.\nThe foreign policy of the Republic of Vietnam (RVN), according to Fishel, \"to a very considerable extent\", was the policy of Ngo Dinh Diem himself during this period. He was the decisive factor in formulating foreign policies of RVN, besides the roles of his adviser – Ngô Đình Nhu and his foreign ministers: Trần Văn Độ (1954–1955), Vũ Văn Mẫu (1955–1963) and Phạm Đăng Lâm (1963) who played subordinate roles in his regime. Nevertheless, since Diệm had to pay much attention to domestic issues in the context of the Vietnam War, foreign policies did not receive appropriate attention from him. Diệm paid more attention to countries that affected Vietnam directly and he seemed to personalize and emotionalize relations with other nations. The issues Diệm paid more attention in foreign affairs were: the Geneva Accords, the withdrawal of the French, international recognition and the cultivation of legitimacy of RVN and the relations with the United States, Laos (good official relations) and Cambodia (complicated relations, especially in border disputes, minority ethnics), and especially North Vietnam. Besides, RVN also focused on the diplomatic relations with other Asian countries to secure its international recognition.\n\nDiệm's attitude toward India was not harmonized due to India's non-alignment policy, which Diệm assumed favor of communism. It was not until in 1962, since India voted on a report to criticize the communists for supporting invasion South Vietnam, Diệm eventually reviewed his opinions toward India. For Japan, Diệm's regime established the diplomatic relations for the recognition of war reparations, which led to a reparation agreement in 1959 with the amount of $49 million. Diệm also established friendly relations with non-communist states especially the Republic of Korea, the Republic of China, the Republic of the Philippines, the Kingdom of Thailand, the Kingdom of Laos and the Federation of Malaya where Diệm's regime shared the common recognition of communist threats. RVN established diplomatic relations with Cambodia, India, Burma, Indonesia, Hong Kong and Singapore. RVN also established diplomatic relations with Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Morocco, and Tunisia ...\n\nRegarding the relations with Democratic Republic of Vietnam, Diệm maintained total hostility and never had serious effort to establish any relations with them. In relations with France, as an anti-colonialism nationalist, Diệm did not believe in France and France was always a negative factor in his foreign policy. He also never \"looked up on France as a counterweight to American influence\".\n\nConcerning relations with the US, although Diệm admitted the importance of the US-RVN alliance, he perceived that the US's assistance to RVN was primarily serving its own national interest, rather than the RVN's. Keith Taylor adds that Diệm's distrust of the US grew because of its Laotian policy, which gave North Vietnam access to South Vietnam's border through southern Laos. Diệm also feared the escalation of American military personnel in South Vietnam, which threatened his nationalist credentials and the independence of his government. In early 1963, the Ngô brothers even revised their alliance with the US. Moreover, they also disagreed with the US on how to best react to the threat from North Vietnam. While Diệm believed that before opening the political system for the participation of other political camps, military, and security matters should be taken into account; the US wanted otherwise and was critical of Diệm's clientelistic government, where political power based on his family members and trusted associates. The Buddhist crisis in South Vietnam decreased American confidence in Diệm, and eventually led to the coup d'état sanctioned by the US. Ultimately, nation-building politics \"shaped the evolution and collapse of the US-Diem alliance\". The different visions in the meanings of concepts – democracy, community, security, and social change – were substantial, and were a key cause of the strains throughout their alliance.\n\nAs the Buddhist crisis deepened in July 1963, non-communist Vietnamese nationalists and the military began preparations for a coup. Bùi Diễm, later South Vietnam's Ambassador to the United States, reported in his memoirs that General Lê Văn Kim requested his aid in learning what the United States might do about Diệm's government. Diễm had contacts in both the embassy and with the high-profile American journalists then in South Vietnam, David Halberstam (\"New York Times\"), Neil Sheehan (United Press International), and Malcolm Browne (Associated Press).\n\nThe coup d'état was designed by a military revolutionary council including ARVN generals led by General Dương Văn Minh. Lucien Conein, a CIA operative, had become a liaison between the US Embassy and the generals, who were led by Trần Văn Đôn. They met each other for the first time on 2 October 1963 at Tân Sơn Nhất airport. Three days later, Conein met with General Dương Văn Minh to discuss the coup and the stance of the US towards it. Conein then delivered the White House's message of American non-intervention, which was reiterated by Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., the US ambassador, who gave secret assurances to the generals that the United States would not interfere.\n\nThe coup was chiefly planned by the Vietnamese generals. Unlike the coup in 1960, the plotters of the 1963 coup knew how to gain broad support from other ARVN officer corps. They obtained the support of General Tôn Thất Định, General Đỗ Cao Trí, General Nguyễn Khánh, and the I Corps and II Corps Commanders. Only General Huỳnh Văn Cao of IV Corps remained loyal to Diệm.\n\nOn 1 November 1963, Minh and his co-conspirators overthrew the government in a swift coup. With only the palace guard remaining to defend Diệm and his younger brother Nhu, the generals called the palace offering Diệm exile if he surrendered. That evening, however, Diệm and his entourage escaped via an underground passage to Cha Tam Catholic Church in Cholon, where they were captured the following morning, 2 November. The brothers were assassinated together in the back of an M113 armoured personnel carrier with a bayonet and revolver by Captain Nguyễn Văn Nhung, under orders from Minh given while en route to the Vietnamese Joint General Staff headquarters. Diệm was buried in an unmarked grave in a cemetery next to the house of the US Ambassador.\n\nUpon learning of Diệm's ouster and assassination, Hồ Chí Minh reportedly stated: \"I can scarcely believe the Americans would be so stupid.\" The North Vietnamese Politburo was more explicit:\n\nThe consequences of the 1 November coup d'état will be contrary to the calculations of the US imperialists ... Diệm was one of the strongest individuals resisting the people and Communism. Everything that could be done in an attempt to crush the revolution was carried out by Diệm. Diệm was one of the most competent lackeys of the US imperialists  ... Among the anti-Communists in South Vietnam or exiled in other countries, no one has sufficient political assets and abilities to cause others to obey. Therefore, the lackey administration cannot be stabilized. The coup d'état on 1 November 1963 will not be the last.\n\nAfter Diệm's assassination, South Vietnam was unable to establish a stable government and several coups took place after his death. While the United States continued to influence South Vietnam's government, the assassination bolstered North Vietnamese attempts to characterize the South Vietnamese as \"supporters of colonialism\".\n\nDiệm's assassination led to the collapse of his regime and the end of the first Republic of Vietnam. Nevertheless, Diệm's contribution over his nine years of power from 1954 to 1963 can be appreciated at many levels due to his part in resolving the northern refugees issue, establishing and consolidating the power of his regime, subduing the sects, and pacifying the country, Diệm stabilised an independent South Vietnam that had suffered in the first Indochina war and built a relatively stable government in Saigon during the late 1950s. The normalcy and domestic security created conditions for economic recovery and development of education in South Vietnam, which contributed educated human resources to serve the nation. Many universities were established during Diệm's presidency, such as: Huế University, Đà Lạt University, University of Pedagogy, the University of Saigon, University of Agriculture and Forestry, Medical University of Huế, and the National Institute of Administration, which applied the methods of European and American-style vocational schools, contributing to education in the Republic of Vietnam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2719346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2719346", "title": "Once on a Time", "text": "Once on a Time\n\nOnce On A Time is a fairy tale created by A. A. Milne.\n\nWritten in 1917, Milne's own introduction begins 'This is an odd book', and indeed it is very difficult to classify. Ostensibly a typical fairytale, it tells the story of the war between the kingdoms of Euralia and Barodia and the political shenanigans which take place in Euralia in the king's absence, all supposedly rewritten by Milne from the writings of the fictional historian \"Roger Scurvilegs\".\n\nMilne created the story to contain believable, three-dimensional characters, rather than the stereotypes which will satisfy children. Hence the book introduces us to a princess who is far from helpless; a prince who, whilst handsome, is also pompous and vain; an enchantment which is almost entirely humorous; a villain who is not entirely villainous and receives no real comeuppance; a good king who is not always good; an evil king who is not always evil, and so on. The result is a book which children may not enjoy as much as adults.\n\nThe book was written by Milne partly for his wife, upon whom the character of the Countess Belvane was partially based.\n\nWhen the King of Barodia receives a pair of seven-league boots as a birthday present, his habit of flying over the King of Euralia's castle during breakfast provokes a series of incidents which escalate into war. While the King of Euralia is away, his daughter Hyacinth tries to rule in his stead and counter the machiavellian ambitions of the king's favourite, the Countess Belvane.\n\nKing Merriwig of Euralia: fat, jolly if occasionally pompous and easily led. He nevertheless can show great strength of mind, as related in an anecdote in which he outwitted a fairy, mostly by sheer stubbornness.\n\nPrincess Hyacinth: Merriwig's daughter. Rather more savvy than her father, she is nevertheless at first out of her depth when trying to rule the kingdom in his absence. Despite this, she grows into the role.\n\nThe King of Barodia: Bombastic, proud and arrogant, and takes inordinate pride in his moustache.\n\nThe Countess Belvane: A difficult character. Beautiful, proud and haughty, she is inclined to melodramatics and emotional self-indulgence. Ostensibly the villain of the piece, her motives are complex and subtle.\n\nLady Wiggs: Hyacinth's closest friend; helpful and dreamy.\n\nLady Woggs: A palace servant; well-meaning but terribly dim.\n\nPrince Udo of Araby: Prince of a neighbouring realm, invited by Hyacinth to help her in her troubles with Belvane. He turns out to be very little help at all, partly due to suffering an embarrassing enchantment, but mostly due to his personality.\n\nCoronel: Udo's companion-at-arms and best friend. Far more laid-back and likeable than the prince.\n\nRoger Scurvilegs: Noted historian of Euralia, author of the monumental work \"Euralia Past and Present\". The narrator gives him credit for the basic facts of the story whilst gently lampooning him for his stuffiness.\n\nMilne himself resisted characterising the book. In his foreword to the 1922 edition he wrote of it:\n\n\"For whom, then, is the book intended? That is the trouble. Unless I can say, \"For those, young or old, who like the things which I like,\" I find it difficult to answer. Is it a children's book? Well, what do we mean by that? Is \"The Wind in the Willows\" a children's book? Is \"Alice in Wonderland\"? Is \"Treasure Island\"? These are masterpieces which we read with pleasure as children, but with how much more pleasure when we are grown-up. In any case, what do we mean by \"children\"? A boy of three, a girl of six, a boy of ten, a girl of fourteen - are they all to like the same thing? And is a book \"suitable for a boy of twelve\" any more likely to please a boy of twelve than a modern novel is likely to please a man of thirty-seven; even if the novel be described truly as \"suitable for a man of thirty-seven\"? I confess that I cannot grapple with these difficult problems. But I am very sure of this: that no one can write a book which children will like, unless he write it for himself first. That being so, I shall say boldly that this is a story for grown-ups. [...] But, as you see, I am still finding it difficult to explain just what sort of book it is. Perhaps no explanation is necessary. Read in it what you like; read it to whomever you like; be of what age you like; it can only fall into one of the two classes. Either you will enjoy it, or you won't.\n\n\"It is that sort of book.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23234887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23234887", "title": "Pin-ups for Vets", "text": "Pin-ups for Vets\n\nPin-ups For Vets is a non-profit charitable organization dedicated to helping injured and ill American Soldiers, Marines, Airmen, Guards, and Sailors—and current active-duty personnel. The project is the work of Gina Elise who sells and distributes the Pin-ups For Vets Calendar, which hearkens back to 1940s and 1950-style vintage pretty-girl images. The calendars are considered very tasteful by today's standards; they contain no frontal nudity, or nudity of any kind. Elise appears in various types of period costume and lingerie. Several other women are involved in the project as models besides Elise. Some of these women have served in the U.S. Armed Forces themselves. To date, the organization has donated over $50,000 to veterans hospitals.\n\nVintage hardware often features in Pin-ups For Vets photography, including old bikes, aircraft and military tanks. Elise also takes the time to travel to stateside military hospitals personally, delivering the calendars, posters, and T-shirts to wounded vets, soldiers, airmen, Marines, and seamen at their bedsides, and thanking them for their service. \nElise was awarded the Volunteer of the Year award by the Los Angeles Business Journal on May 5, 2009 (as part of the newspaper's \"Women Making a Difference\" award series). In November 2010, Gina was featured on an Oprah Winfrey Show episode honoring American volunteers. Also in 2010, the movie Red (Bruce Willis and Helen Mirren, Summit Entertainment) featured Gina Elise in a scene showing her pin-up in a locker in the CIA headquarters.\n\nElise has so far raised over $50,000 for rehab programs that have gone to military and VA hospitals, and in 2007 won the Outstanding Young Californian award from the Junior Chamber of Commerce and California Jaycees. Eight flags have been flown in honor of the \"Pin-ups For Vets\" calendar project on various military bases worldwide. Gina hopes to eventually visit a VA hospital in each of the fifty States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14551867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551867", "title": "Psychoanalytic conceptions of language", "text": "Psychoanalytic conceptions of language\n\nPsychoanalytic conceptions of language refers to the intersection of psychoanalytic theory with linguistics and psycholinguistics. Language has been an integral component of the psychoanalytic framework since its inception, as evidenced by the fact that Anna O. (pseud. for Bertha Pappenheim), whose treatment via the cathartic method influenced the later development of psychoanalytic therapy, referred to her method of treatment as the \"talking cure\" (Freud & Breuer, 1895; de Mijolla, 2005).\n\nLanguage is relevant to psychoanalysis in two key respects. First, it is important with respect to the therapeutic process, serving as the principal means by which unconscious mental processes are given expression through the verbal exchange between analyst and patient (e.g., free association, dream analysis, transference-countertransference dynamics). Secondly, psychoanalytic theory is linked in many ways to linguistic phenomena, such as parapraxes and the telling of jokes. According to Freud (1915, 1923), the essential difference between modes of thought characterized by \"primary\" (irrational, governed by the id) as opposed to \"secondary\" (logical, governed by the ego and external reality) thought processes is one of preverbal vs. verbal ways of conceptualizing the world.\n\nAccording to Freud (1940), \"...the function of speech…brings material in the ego into a firm connection with the residues of visual, but more particularly of auditory, perceptions\" (p. 35). In other words, the mind is able to assimilate perceptual information through language - we are able to make sense of our perceptions by thinking about them in the form of words.\n\nOne of Freud's earliest papers, \"On Aphasia\" (1891), was concerned with the speech disorder the neurological mechanisms of which had been investigated earlier in the century by Paul Broca and Carl Wernicke. Freud was skeptical of Wernicke's findings, citing a paucity of clinical observation as his reason. Although he conceded the fact that language is linked to neurological processes, Freud repudiated a model of localization of brain function, according to which specific regions of the brain are responsible for certain cognitive functions. In contrast to most of his contemporaries, Freud rejected the notion that in most cases pathological phenomena are manifestations of physiological dysfunctions (Lanteri-Laura, 2005a).\n\nIn the same paper, Freud (1891) distinguishes between \"word-presentations\", the mental images of words, and \"thing-presentations\", the representations of actual objects. Word-presentations involve the linking of a conscious idea to a verbal stimulus, are associated with the secondary processes, and are oriented towards reality. Thing-presentations are essentially pre- or nonverbal images of objects, are associated with the primary processes, and are not necessarily connected with reality (Rycroft, 1995; Gibeault, 2005a, 2005b; Lanteri-Laura, 2005b). The influence of the external world on the ego is apparent here in that mental processes and word-presentations become connected only gradually as the ego differentiates from the id as a result of contact with the environment (Rycroft, 1995; Freud, 1923). The idea of thing vs. word-presentations is also evident in Freud's hypotheses concerning schizophrenia (Rycroft, 1995; Freud, 1894, 1896). It is suggested that, as a defense against intrapsychic conflict, schizophrenics divest thing-presentations of significance and come to treat word-presentations as actual things (cf. mental functioning in Piaget's preoperational stage of cognitive development).\n\nThe parapraxes (e.g., slips of the tongue and pen) and humor were two other areas related to language that Freud investigated. He conceptualized speech errors as discrepancies between what a speaker intended to say and what he or she actually said, indicating that the intention was unconscious and prevented from being expressed accurately due to intrapsychic conflict (Freud, 1901). In terms of humor, Freud (1905) believed that jokes were an innocuous way of expressing sexual and/or aggressive impulses and easing psychic tension, thereby producing a degree of pleasure. Like dreams and neurotic symptoms, jokes serve as compromise-formations and are indicative of many of the same fundamental processes characteristic of the unconscious, e.g., condensation and displacement. However, unlike dreams and symptoms, jokes occur in an inter- rather than intrapersonal context and are dependent on the listener's ability to discern the ways in which the sense of the joke has been distorted through the condensation of words, multiple use of the same words or phrases, and the double meaning of words (cf. Paul Grice's cooperative principle, cf. also Ephratt 2004). The humorous quality of the following joke by Viennese journalist Daniel Spitzer is the result of simple phrase rearrangement:\n\nIn this joke, we see multiple use of the same phrase with words in a different order, as well as the double meaning of the words \"lay\" and \"lain.\" Ostensibly about a couple's financial status, this joke is effective because it allows for the overcoming of inhibition and the indirect expression of sexual impulses through the double meaning of words.\n\nOver the past half century, there have been efforts by psychoanalysts and cognitive psychologists to bridge the gap between their two respective disciplines. Rizzuto (2002) has discussed the nature of the verbal exchange between analyst and patient in the context of Roman Jakobson's (1976, 1990) typology of the six functions of \"the speech event\": (1) referential, involving contextual information; (2) poetic, referring to the construction of the form of the message; (3) emotive, or the speaker's emotional influence vis-a-vis the receiver; (4) conative, or the speaker's orientation toward the receiver; (5) phatic, or the attempt to establish and maintain contact between speaker and receiver (e.g., \"Can you hear me?\"); and (6) metalingual, or the application of language to itself (e.g.,\"What do you mean with that word?\"). Rizzuto (2002) suggests that by paying an equal amount of attention to each of the six functions of the speech act, the analyst can obtain a more comprehensive picture of the patient's affective life. Conversely, by focusing on one function at a time, the analyst can ascertain the patient's different ways of mitigating anxiety or coping with stress.\n\nIn a symposium paper on psychoanalysis and linguistics, Harris (1995) offers a variety of reasons why the mutual exchange of ideas between the two disciplines is an important enterprise. The theoretical shift in psychoanalysis from libidinal development and drive states to object relations and attachment, first initiated around the middle of the twentieth century, is now incorporating more and more elements of cognitive science and psycholinguistics. The framework of intersubjectivity and model of the therapeutic alliance as a reciprocal exchange constructed by both analyst and patient call for a modification to both theory and practice, the ultimate aim of which is to think of the analytic process more in terms of interpersonal relations and \"complex language worlds\" (p. 616). Furthermore, over the past twenty years infancy research has greatly informed psychoanalytic theory, and the concepts of symbolism and mental representation have influenced both frameworks. According to Harris (1995), the processes involved in the transition from nonverbal to verbal ways of thinking about and experiencing the world, first investigated in infancy research, have pointed to the relevance of language with respect to psychoanalytic thinking. A closer interdisciplinary relationship between psychoanalysis and linguistics could potentially bolster the former's status as a research paradigm at the intersection of hermeneutics and natural science, a reformulation that some analysts have suggested (Strenger, 1991).\n\nThe new journal \"Language and Psychoanalysis\" is just devoted to research in the intersection between psychoanalysis and linguistics.\n\n"}
{"id": "18374162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18374162", "title": "Serial art", "text": "Serial art\n\nSerial art is an art movement in which uniform elements or objects were assembled in accordance with strict modular principles. The composition of serial art is a systematic process.\n\nAn early example of serial art is Constantin Brâncuși's sculpture \"Endless Column\".\n\nOne type of serial art is the production of multiple objects (paintings, sculptures, etc.) in sets or series, for example Josef Albers's well-known series of “square” paintings, where a single, repeating image creates a variation series. This technique later became associated with minimalism, the “multiple”, and “ABC art”. However, there is a different type, which may be regarded as more essentially “serial” because it is “characterized by the nonhierarchical juxtaposition of equivalent representations, which only yield their complete meaning on the basis of their mutual relationship”. This produces sequential structures defined similarly to those of a twelve-tone row, found for example in Max Bill's series, \"Fünfzehn Variationen über ein Thema\" (1934–38), and in Richard Paul Lohse's \"30 vertikale systematische Farbreihen in gelber Rautenform\" (1943–70) and \"Konkretion III\" (1947).\n\nSol LeWitt wrote that \"the serial artist does not attempt to produce a beautiful or mysterious object but functions merely as a clerk cataloguing the results of his premise.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27987696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27987696", "title": "Shihsanhang Museum of Archaeology", "text": "Shihsanhang Museum of Archaeology\n\nThe 13th Site Museum of Archaeology (Het Dertiende Plaats Museum van de Archeologie/十三行博物館) is an archaeological museum in Bali District, New Taipei, Taiwan. The museum conserves and displays artifacts from the 13th archaeological site.\n\nThe origins of the museum date back to excavations undertaken at the 13th site in 1990. The 13th Site Museum was built in 1998. It includes a \"Bridge of Time\" or Tijd Brug, that allows visitors to travel back through time to explore its civilization and culture.\n\nIn 2017, the museum became the first museum exhibiting its artifacts outside Taiwan when they held an exhibition in Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan at the Saitobaru Archaeological Museum displaying 105 artifact sets from the museum in Taiwan. The exhibition was jointly organized by scholars and experts from both sides.\n\nThe museum is located at the foot of Guanyin Mountain near Däamzui, old Dutch administrative region (see Dutch Red Haus, Fort Äarmmo-Schee). The archaeological site dates back from 1,800 years ago (Iron Age).\n\nThe architecture of the museum has an archaeological theme, reflecting ancient civilization in Taivan (Taiwan) islandwide and in its outlying minor islands.\n\nThe museum is accessible by bus from Guandu Station of Taipei Metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22106001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22106001", "title": "The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism", "text": "The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\n\nThe Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the study of aesthetics and art criticism. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the American Society for Aesthetics.\n\nc\n"}
{"id": "3698518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698518", "title": "The Lonely Crowd", "text": "The Lonely Crowd\n\nThe Lonely Crowd is a 1950 sociological analysis by David Riesman, Nathan Glazer, and Reuel Denney. Together with \"\" (1951), written by Riesman's friend and colleague, C. Wright Mills, it is considered a landmark study of American character.\n\nRiesman et al. identify and analyze three main cultural types: tradition-directed, inner-directed, and other-directed. They trace the evolution of society from a tradition-directed culture, one that moved in a direction defined by preceding generations. Tradition-directed social types obeyed rules established a long time in the past and rarely succeeded in modern society, with its dynamic changes. This earliest social type was succeeded by people who were inner-directed. They discovered the potential within themselves to live and act not according to established norms but based on what they discovered using their own inner gyroscope. Inner-directed people live as adults what they learned in childhood, and tend to be confident, sometimes rigid. After the Industrial Revolution in America had succeeded in developing a middle-class state, institutions that had flourished within the tradition-directed and the inner-directed social framework became secondary to daily life. Instead of living according to traditions, or conforming to the values of organized religion, of the family, or societal codes, the new middle class gradually adopted a malleability in the way people lived with each other. The increasing ability to consume goods and afford material abundance was accompanied by a shift away from tradition to inner-directedness. How to define one's self became a function of the way others lived.\n\nGradually an other-direction took hold, that is, the social forces of how others were living—what they consumed, what they did with their time, what their views were toward politics, work, play, and so on. Riesman and his researchers found that other-directed people were flexible and willing to accommodate others to gain approval. Because large organizations preferred this type of personality, it became indispensable to the institutions that thrived with the growth of industry in America. As Riesman writes, \"The other-directed person wants to be loved rather than esteemed\", not necessarily to control others but to relate to them. Those who are other-directed need assurance that they are emotionally in tune with others. By the 1940s, the other-directed character was beginning to dominate society. Today the triumph of this type of social personality is complete. If one applies the other-direction criteria to everyday actors as portrayed in modern culture, for example, the other-directed person is easy to identify.\n\nThis defined the middle class that no longer had the material needed to cling to past life standards to form a cohesive society. But since the other-directed could only identify themselves through references to others in their communities (and what they earned, owned, consumed, believed in) they inherently were restricted in their ability to know themselves. Riesman's book argues that although other-directed individuals are crucial for the smooth functioning of the modern organization, the value of autonomy is compromised. \"The Lonely Crowd\" also argues that society dominated by the other-directed faces profound deficiencies in leadership, individual self-knowledge, and human potential. The book's title was chosen by the publisher, not by Riesman or his co-authors (Nathan Glazer and Reuel Denney).\n\n"}
{"id": "4345848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4345848", "title": "The Philosophical Review", "text": "The Philosophical Review\n\nThe Philosophical Review is a quarterly journal of philosophy edited by the faculty of the Sage School of Philosophy at Cornell University and published by Duke University Press (since September 2006). The journal publishes original work in all areas of analytic philosophy, but emphasizes material that is of general interest to academic philosophers. Each issue of the journal contains approximately two to four articles along with several book reviews. It was ranked the best English-language general philosophy journal in a poll conducted on the popular philosophy blog Leiter Reports.\n\nThe journal has been in continuous publication since 1892. Volume I contained articles by William James and John Dewey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4174285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174285", "title": "The Real", "text": "The Real\n\nIn philosophy, the Real is that which is the authentic, unchangeable truth. It may be considered a primordial, external dimension of experience, referred to as the infinite, absolute or noumenal, as opposed to a reality contingent on sense perception and the material order. The Real is often considered irreducible to the symbolic order of lived experience, but may be gestured to in certain cases, such as the experience of the sublime.\n\nFor Jacques Lacan, the order of the real is not only opposed to the imaginary but is also located beyond the symbolic. Unlike the symbolic, which is constituted in terms of oppositions such as \"presence\" and \"absence\", there is no absence in the real. The symbolic opposition between \"presence\" and \"absence\" implies the possibility that something may be missing from the symbolic, the real is \"always in its place: it carries it glued to its heel, ignorant of what might exile it from there.\" If the symbolic is a set of differentiated signifiers, the real is in itself undifferentiated: \"it is without fissure.\" The symbolic introduces \"a cut in the real,\" in the process of signification: \"it is the world of words that creates the world of things.\" Thus the real emerges as that which is outside language: \"it is that which resists symbolization absolutely.\" The real is impossible because it is impossible to imagine, impossible to integrate into the symbolic order. This character of impossibility and resistance to symbolization lends the real its traumatic quality.\n\nThe primordial Real in which a (pre-Oedipal) human subject is born is differentiated from the real which a subject integrated into the symbolic order experiences. In the former, the real is the continuous, “whole” reality without categories and the differential function of language. Following the mirror stage, however, and the eventual entrance of the imaginary and the symbolic (the split of the subject between the conscious imaginary and the unconscious symbolic), the real may only be experienced as traumatic gaps in the symbolic order. An example of this are traumatic events such as natural disasters, which effectively break down the signification of everyday life and cause a rupture of something alien and unrecognizable, without the usual grammar of the symbolic that conditions how to make meaning of something and how to proceed.\n\nOne of the main methods of psychoanalysis is to drain the traumatic experiences of the real into the symbolic through free association. The analyst searches the analysand’s discourse for sounds, words, or images of fixation and through dialectization attempt to bring these fixations to the regular metonymic flow of the (unconscious) symbolic order, thereby integrating the subject further into their fantasy, usually referred to as “traversing the fantasy.”\n\nContemporary Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Žižek has expanded on Lacan's theories and described (at least) three modalities of the Real:\n\n\"Reality, says Rudolf Christoph Eucken, is an independent spiritual world, unconditioned by the apparent world of sense. To know it and to live in it is man's true destiny. His point of contact with it is personality: the inward fount of his being: his heart, not his head. Man is real, and in the deepest sense alive, in virtue of this free personal life-principle within him; but he is bound and blinded by the ties set up between his surface-intelligence and the sense-world. The struggle for reality must be a struggle on man's part to transcend the sense-world, escape its bondage. He must renounce it, and be 're-born' to a higher level of consciousness; shifting his centre of interest from the natural to the spiritual plane. According to the thoroughness with which he does this, will be the amount of real life he enjoys. The initial break with the 'world,' the refusal to spend one’s life communing with one’s own cinematograph picture, is essential if the freedom of the infinite is to be attained. We are amphibious creatures: our life moves upon two levels at once—the natural and the spiritual. The key to the puzzle of man lies in the fact that he is \"the meeting point of various stages of Reality.\" All his difficulties and triumphs are grounded in this. The whole question for him is, which world shall be central for him—the Real, vital, all-embracing life we call spirit, or the lower life of sense? Shall 'Existence,' the superficial obvious thing, or 'Substance,' the underlying verity, be his home? Shall he remain the slave of the senses with their habits and customs, or rise to a plane of consciousness, of heroic endeavour, in which—participating in the life of spirit—he knows reality because he is real?\" (Evelyn Underhill (1911), \"Mysticism\", p. 40)\n\n\"There are,\" says Plotinus, \"different roads by which this end [apprehension of the Infinite] may be reached. The love of beauty, which exalts the poet; that devotion to the One and that ascent of science which makes the ambition of the philosopher; and that love and those prayers by which some devout and ardent soul tends in its moral purity towards perfection. These are the great highways conducting to that height above the actual and the particular, where we stand in the immediate presence of the Infinite, who shines out as from the deeps of the soul.\" (Plotinus, Letter to Flaccus)\n\nÉdouard Récéjac states: \nIf the mind penetrates deeply into the facts of aesthetics, it will find more and more, that these facts are based upon an ideal identity between the mind itself and things. At a certain point the harmony becomes so complete, and the finality so close that it gives us actual emotion. The Beautiful then becomes the sublime; brief apparition, by which the soul is caught up into the true mystic state, and touches the Absolute, the Real. It is scarcely possible to persist in this Esthetic perception without feeling lifted up by it above things and above ourselves, in an ontological vision which closely resembles the Absolute of the Mystics. (Édouard Récéjac, \"Fondements de la Connaissance Mystique\" (1897), p. 74)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15094032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15094032", "title": "Triangle of reference", "text": "Triangle of reference\n\nThe triangle of reference (also known as the triangle of meaning and the semiotic triangle) is a model of how linguistic symbols are related to the objects they represent. The triangle was published in \"The Meaning of Meaning\" (1923) by Ogden and Richards. While often referred to as the \"Ogden/Richards triangle\" the idea is also expressed in 1810, by Bernard Bolzano, in his \"Beiträge zu einer begründeteren Darstellung der Mathematik\". However, the triangle can be traced back to the 4th century BC, in Aristotle's \"Peri Hermeneias\" (often referred to in its Latin translation \"De Interpretatione\", second book of his \"Organon\"). The Triangle relates to the problem of universals, a philosophical debate which split ancient and medieval philosophers (mainly realists and nominalists).\n\nThe triangle describes a simplified form of relationship between the speaker as subject, a concept as object or referent, and its designation (sign, signans). For more elaborated research see Semiotics. \n\nThe relations between the triangular corners may be phrased more precisely in causal terms as follows:\n\n\nSuch a triangle represents ONE person, whereas communication takes place between TWO (objects, not necessarily persons). So imagine another triangle and consider that for the two to understand each other, the content that the \"triangles\" represent must fit or be aligned. Clearly, this calls for synchronisation and an interface as well as scale among other things. Notice also, that we perceive the world mostly through our eyes and in alternative phases of seeing and not seeing with change in the environment as the most important information to look for. Our eyes are lenses and we see a surface (2D) in ONE direction (focusing) if we are stationary and the object is not moving either. This is why you may position yourself in one corner of the triangle and by replicating (mirroring) it, you will be able to see the whole picture, your cognitive epistemological and the ontological existential or physical model of life, the universe, existence, etc. combined.\n\nJohn Searle used the notion of \"direction of fit\" to create a taxonomy of illocutionary acts.\n\nActually the arrows indicate that there is something exchanged between the two parties and it is a feedback cycle. Especially, if you imagine that the world is represented in both persons' mind and used for reality check. If you look at the triangle above again, then remember that reality check is not what is indicated there between the sign and the referent and marked as \"true', because a term or a sign is allocated \"arbitrarily'. What you check for is the observance of the law of identity which requires you and your partner to sort out that you are talking about the same thing. So the chunk of reality and the term are replaceable/interchangeable within limits and your concepts in the mind as presented in some appropriate way are all related and mean the same thing. Usually the check does not stop there, your ideas must also be tested for feasibility and doability to make sure that they are \"real\" and not \"phantasy\". Reality check comes from consolidating your experience with other people's experience to avoid solipsism and/or by putting your ideas (projection) in practice (production) and see the reaction. Notice, however how vague the verbs used and how the concept of a fit itself is left unexplained in details.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181811", "title": "Watling Street", "text": "Watling Street\n\nWatling Street is a route in England that began as an ancient trackway first used by the Britons, mainly between the areas of modern Canterbury and using a natural ford near Westminster. The Romans later paved the route, which then connected the Kentish ports of Dubris (Dover), Rutupiae (Richborough), Lemanis (Lympne), and Regulbium (Reculver) to their bridge over the Thames at Londinium (London). The route continued northwest past Verulamium (St Albans) on its way to Viroconium (Wroxeter). The Romans considered the continuation on to Blatobulgium (Birrens) beyond Hadrian's Wall to be part of the same route, leading some scholars to call this Watling Street as well, although others restrict it to the southern leg. \n\nWatling Street was the site of Boudica's defeat by the Romans and was later the southwestern border of the Danelaw. In the early 19th century, the course between London and the Channel was paved and became known as the Great Dover Road: today, the route from Dover to London forms part of the A2 road. The route from London to Wroxeter forms much of the A5 road. At various points along the historic route, the name Watling Street remains in modern use.\n\nThe original Celtic and Roman name for the road is unknown and the Romans may not have viewed it as a single path at all, dividing it amongst two separate itineraries in one 2nd-century list. The modern name instead derives from the Old English ', from a time when \"street\" referred to any paved road and had no particular association with urban thoroughfares. The ' (\"people of \") were a tribe in the St Albans area in the early medieval period with an early name of the town being ‘Waetlingacaester’ which would translate into modern English as ‘Watlingchester’.\n\nIt is uncertain whether they were considered part of Middlesex or Essex or a British remnant (' being a possible variation of Old English ', \"foreigners\", which gave the Welsh their English name).\n\nThe original Anglo-Saxon name for the section of the route between Canterbury and London was \"\" or Key Street, a name still borne by a hamlet on the road near Sittingbourne. This section only later became considered part of Watling Street.\n\nWatling Street has been used as a boundary of many historic administrative units, and some of these are still in existence today, either through continuity or the adoption of these as by successor areas.\nExamples include:\n\nThe broad, grassy trackway found by the Romans had already been used by the Britons for centuries. The main path led from Richborough on the English Channel to a natural ford in the Thames at Thorney Island near Westminster to a site near Wroxeter, where it split. The western continuation went on to Holyhead while the northern ran to Chester and on to the Picts in Scotland.\n\nThe Romans began constructing paved roads shortly after their invasion in  43. The London portion of Watling Street was rediscovered during Christopher Wren's rebuilding of St Mary-le-Bow in 1671–73, following the Great Fire. Modern excavations date its construction to the winter from  47 to 48. Around London, it was wide and paved with gravel. It was repeatedly redone, including at least twice before the sack of London by Boudica's troops in 60 or 61. The road ran straight from the bridgehead on the Thames to what would become Newgate on the London Wall before passing over Ludgate Hill and the Fleet and dividing into Watling Street and the Devil's Highway west to Calleva (Silchester). Some of this route is preserved beneath Old Kent Road.\n\nThe 2nd-century Antonine Itinerary gives the course of Watling Street from \"Urioconium\" (Wroxeter) to \"Portus Ritupis\" (Richborough) as a part of its Second Route (\"\"), which runs for 501 MP from Hadrian's Wall to Richborough:\n\nSome site in the middle section of this route is supposed by most historians to have been the location of G. Suetonius Paulinus's decisive victory over Boudica's Iceni in  61.\n\nThe two routes of the Antonine Itinerary immediately following (' & ') list the stations from Londinium to \"Portus Dubris\" (Dover) and to \"Portus Lemanis\" (Lympne) at the western edge of the Romney Marsh, suggesting that they may have been considered interchangeable terminuses. They only differ in the distance to Durovernum: 14 and 17 Roman miles, respectively. The route to Lemanis was sometimes distinguished by the name ; it now forms most of the B2068 road that runs from the M20 motorway to Canterbury. The route between Durovernum and the fortress and port at Regulbium (Reculver) on Kent's northern shore is not given in these itineraries but was also paved and is sometimes taken as a fourth terminus for Watling Street. The Sixth Route (\"\") also recorded an alternate path stopping at Tripontium (Newton and Biggin) between Venonis (High Cross) and Bannaventa (Norton); it is listed as taking 24 Roman miles rather than 17.\n\nThe more direct route north from Londinium (London) to Eboracum (York) was Ermine Street. The stations between Eboracum and Cataractonium (Catterick) were shared with Dere Street, which then branched off to the northeast. Durocobrivis (Dunstable) was the site of the path's intersection with the Icknield Way. The Maiden Way ran from Bravoniacum (Kirkby Thore) to the lead and silver mines at Epiacum (Whitley Castle) and on to Hadrian's Wall.\n\nBy the time of the Saxon invasions, the Roman bridge across the Thames had presumably fallen into disrepair or been destroyed. The Saxons abandoned the walled Roman site in favour of Lundenwic to its west, presumably because of its more convenient access to the ford on the Thames. They did not return to Lundenburh (the City of London) until forced to do so by the Vikings in the late 9th century. Over time, the graveling and paving itself fell into disrepair, although the road's course continued to be used in many places as a public right of way. \"Watlingestrate\" was one of the four roads protected by the king's peace in the Laws of Edward the Confessor.\n\nA number of Old English names testify to route of Watling Street at this time: Boughton Street in Kent; Colney Street in Hertfordshire; Fenny Stratford and Stony Stratford in Buckinghamshire; Old Stratford in Northamptonshire; Stretton under Fosse and Stretton Baskerville in Warwickshire; the three adjacent settlements of All Stretton, Church Stretton, and Little Stretton in Shropshire; and Stretton Sugwas in Herefordshire.\n\nFollowing the Viking invasions, the 9th-century Treaty of Alfred and Guthrum mentions Watling Street as a boundary.\n\nIt is assumed that the pilgrims in Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" used the southeastern stretch of Watling Street when journeying from Southwark to Canterbury.\n\nThe first turnpike trust in England was established over Watling Street northwest of London by an Act of Parliament on 4 March 1707 in order to provide a return on the investment required to once more pave the road. The section from Fourne Hill north of Hockliffe to Stony Stratford was paved at a cost of £7000 over the next two years. Revenue was below expectations; in 1709, the trust succeeded in getting a new act extending the term of their monopoly but not permitting their tolls to be increased. In 1711, the trust's debts had not been discharged and the creditors took over receivership of the tolls. In 1716, a new act restored the authority of the trust under the supervision of another group appointed by the Buckinghamshire justices of the peace. The trust failed to receive a further extension of their rights in 1736 and their authority ended at the close of 1738. In 1740, a new act named new trustees to oversee the road, which the residents of Buckinghamshire described as being \"ruined\".\n\nThe road was again paved in the early 19th century at the expense of Thomas Telford. He operated it as a turnpike road for mail coaches from Ireland. To this purpose, he extended it to the port of Holyhead on Anglesey in Wales. During this time, the section southeast of London became known as the Great Dover Road. The tolls ended in 1875.\n\nMuch of the road is still in use today, apart from a few sections where it has been diverted. The A2 road between Dover and London runs over or parallel to the old path. A section of Watling Street still exists in the City of London close to Mansion House underground station on the route of the original Roman road which traversed the River Thames via the first London Bridge and ran through the City in a straight line from London Bridge to Newgate. The sections of the road in Central London possess a variety of names, including Edgware Road and Maida Vale. At Blackheath, the Roman road ran along Old Dover Road, turning and running through the area of present-day Greenwich Park to a location perhaps a little north of the current Deptford Bridge. The stretch between London and Shrewsbury (continuing to Holyhead) is known as the A5. Through Milton Keynes, the A5 is diverted onto a new dual carriageway while Watling Street proper remains and forms part of the Milton Keynes grid road system.\n\nThe name Watling Street is still used along the ancient road in many places, for instance in Bexleyheath in southeast London and in Canterbury, Gillingham, Strood, Gravesend, and Dartford in Kent. A major road joining the A5 in northwest London is called Watling Avenue. North of London, the name Watling Street still occurs in Hertfordshire (including St Albans), Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire (including Milton Keynes), Northamptonshire (including Towcester), Leicestershire (Hinckley), Warwickshire (including Nuneaton and Atherstone), Staffordshire (including Cannock, Wall, Tamworth and Lichfield), Shropshire (including in Church Stretton along the A49), and even Gwynedd in north Wales.\n\nDere Street, the Roman road from Cataractonium (Catterick in Yorkshire) to Corstopitum (now Corbridge, Northumberland) to the Antonine Wall, was also sometimes known as Watling Street. A third Watling Street was the Roman road from Mamucium (Manchester) to Bremetennacum (Ribchester) to Cumbria. Preston, Lancashire, preserved a Watling Street Road between Ribbleton and Fulwood, passing the Sharoe Green Hospital. Both of these may preserve a separate derivation from the Old English \"wealhas\" (\"foreigner\") or may have preserved the memory of the long Roman road while misattributing its upper stages to better-preserved roads.\n\n\n\n"}
