{"id": "51456081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51456081", "title": "Act for the relief of Indian Slaves and Prisoners", "text": "Act for the relief of Indian Slaves and Prisoners\n\nThe Act for the relief of Indian Slaves and Prisoners, which was passed on March 7, 1852 in the Utah Territory, dealt with Indian slavery. A similar law, the Act in Relation to Service, which had made slavery legal in the territory, had been passed on Feb 4, 1852.\n\nAlthough illegal throughout Mexico, the Indian slave trade was well established when the Mormon pioneers arrived in Utah. At the encouragement of Mormon leaders, the Mormon pioneers began buying Indians slaves. They also acquired other prisoners through wars such as Battle at Fort Utah. At the end of the Mexican–American War, Utah became a part of the United States, and the issue of slavery in the new territories became a highly political subject. Finally, members of Congress passed the Compromise of 1850, which allowed the Territories of Utah and New Mexico to choose by popular sovereignty whether to make slavery legal in those territories. Brigham Young began seeking to stop the Mexican slave trade while encouraging the local market, and notified the Mexicans.\n\nMany of Walker's Band were upset by the interruption with the Mexican slave trade. In one graphic incident, Ute Indian Chief Arrapine, a brother of Chief Walkara, insisted that because the Mormons had stopped the Mexicans from buying these children, the Mormons were obligated to purchase them. In his book, \"Forty Years Among the Indians\", Daniel Jones wrote, \"[s]everal of us were present when he took one of these children by the heels and dashed its brains out on the hard ground, after which he threw the body towards us, telling us we had no hearts, or we would have bought it and saved its life.\"\n\nIn 1851, Don Pedro Leon Lujan, who had been trading slaves with a New Mexico license, sought a Utah license from Brigham Young but he refused. Later, Lujan was discovered with Indian slaves and was charged with trading with Indians without a license. The trial was in progress and the ambiguous status of slavery had become an issue in the trial.\n\nWhile the Mormons were not opposed to using the slaves for their own purposes, they opposed the harsh conditions of Mexican slavery. \nOn January 5, 1852, Brigham Young addressed the joint session of the Utah Territory legislature. He discussed the ongoing trial of Don Pedro Leon Lujan and the importance of explicitly indicating the true policy for slavery in Utah. He explained that although he didn't think people should be treated as property, he felt because Indians were so low and degraded, that transferring them to \"the more favored portions of the human race\", would be a benefit and relief. He argued that it is proper for persons thus purchased to owe a debt to the man or woman who saved them, and that it was \"necessary that some law should provide for the suitable regulations under which all such indebtedness should be defrayed\". He said this was superior to drudgery of Mexican slavery, because the Mexicans were \"scarcely superior\" to the Indians. He argued that this type of service was necessary and honorable to improve the condition of Indians.\n\nThe Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah legalized slavery in February 1852 and dealt with Indian slavery in March 1852. The act was divided into four sections.\n\nThe first section required that an Indian slave be in possession of a white person and be either a prisoner, a woman or a child. The prospective slave owner would bring the slave to the probate judge, who was then required to verify the slave owner was \"properly qualified to raise or retain said Indian\". If approved, the slave was then bound for up to twenty years. This could be renewed.\n\nThe second section mandated that the probate officer record the slave's name, age, place of birth, name of parents, tribe, name of slave owner, name of slave trader, and date of being bound.\n\nThe third section gave the probate officer power to obtain additional Indian prisoners and find slave owners for them.\n\nThe fourth section required the master to send children between the ages of seven and sixteen years to school for a period of three months each year if a school was available. Masters were also required to clothe them \"in a comfortable and becoming manner, according to his, said master’s, condition in life.\" Masters were answerable to the probate judge for the treatment of these slaves.\n\nThe total education requirement was significantly greater than for blacks, and slightly less than white indentured servants, whose masters were required to send them to school at age six.\n\nAs a result of this act, many Mormon families took small Indian children into their homes to protect them from Mexican slavery or from being left destitute. John D. Lee, for example, wrote in his journal about a group of Indians who \"brought me two more girls for which I gave them two horses. I named the girls Annette and Elnora.\"\n\nThis act concerned the Republican Party, who had made anti-slavery one of the pillars of their platform. While considering appropriations for Utah Territory, Representative Justin Smith Morrill criticized The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for its laws on Indian slavery. He said that the laws were unconcerned about the way the Indian slaves were captured, noting that the only requirement was that the Indian be possessed by a white person through purchase or otherwise. He said that Utah was the only American government to enslave Indians, and said that state-sanctioned slavery \"is a dreg placed at the bottom of the cup by Utah alone\". The Republicans' abhorrence of slavery in Utah delayed Utah's entrance as a state into the Union.\n\nIn 1857, Representative Justin Smith Morrill estimated that there were 400 Indian slaves in Utah. Richard Kitchen has identified at least 400 Indian slaves taken into Mormon homes, but estimates, even more, went unrecorded because of the high mortality rate of Indian slaves. Many of them tried to escape.\n\nOn the following day, March 8, 1852, the Act in relation to the assembling of Indians was passed, which prohibited the assembling of Indians near white settlements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11160073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11160073", "title": "Adlecti", "text": "Adlecti\n\nDuring the Roman Kingdom, Roman Republic and later, adlecti, or allecti were those who were chosen to fill up a vacancy in any office or collegium, and especially those who were chosen to fill up the proper number of the senate. As these would be generally equites, Festus defines the \"adlecti\" to be equites added to the senate: and he appears in this passage to make a distinction between the \"adlecti\" and the \"conscripti\". This distinction is supported by the summons form used to call the senate which reads \"pares\" and \"conscripti\" beginning in 509 BC. Others argue that they were the same; for in another passage, Festus gives the same definition of the conscripti as he had done of the adlecti, and Livy (ii.1) says \"conscriptos in novum senatum appellabant lectos\".\n\nThe adelecti were also those persons under the empire who were admitted to the privileges and honours of the praetorship, quaestorship, aedileship, and other public offices, without having any duties to perform (\"Historia Augusta\", \"Helvius Pertinax\", 6). In inscriptions we constantly find, \"adlectus inter tribunos\", \"inter quaestores\", \"inter praetores\", etc.\n"}
{"id": "18581389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18581389", "title": "Antidisestablishmentarianism", "text": "Antidisestablishmentarianism\n\nAntidisestablishmentarianism (, ) is a political position that developed in 19th-century Britain in opposition to Liberal proposals for the disestablishment of the Church of England—meaning the removal of the Anglican Church's status as the state church of England, Ireland, and Wales. The establishment was maintained in England, but in Ireland, the Church of Ireland (Anglican) was disestablished in 1871. In Wales, four Church of England dioceses were disestablished in 1920 and became the Church in Wales.\n\nAntidisestablishmentarianism is also referred to as one of the longest non-scientific words in the English language.\n\nThe matter of disestablishment of the Church of England is an ongoing issue, often tied with the position of the Monarchy of the United Kingdom as \"Supreme Governor\" of the Church (see Act of Settlement 1701).\n\nIn April 2014, Nick Clegg, then Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Liberal Democrats, said that he thought the Church of England and the British state should be separated \"in the long run\". David Cameron, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom at the time, responded to Clegg's comments by stating that the position was \"a long-term Liberal idea, but it is not a Conservative one\", adding that he believed the existence of an established church is beneficial.\n\nThe word \"antidisestablishmentarianism\" is notable for its unusual length of 28 letters and 12 syllables (an-ti-dis-es-tab-lish-ment-ar-i-an-is-m), and is one of the longest words in the English language.\n\nIt is also the longest non-technical, non-coined word.\n"}
{"id": "691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691", "title": "Articles of Confederation", "text": "Articles of Confederation\n\nThe Articles of Confederation, formally the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, was an agreement among the 13 original states of the United States of America that served as its first constitution. It was approved, after much debate (between July 1776 and November 1777), by the Second Continental Congress on November 15, 1777, and sent to the states for ratification. The Articles of Confederation came into force on March 1, 1781, after being ratified by all 13 states. A guiding principle of the Articles was to preserve the independence and sovereignty of the states. The central government established by the Articles received only those powers which the former colonies had recognized as belonging to king and parliament.\n\nThe Articles formed a war-time confederation of states, with an extremely limited central government. While unratified, the document was used by the Congress to conduct business, direct the American Revolutionary War, conduct diplomacy with foreign nations, and deal with territorial issues and Native American relations. The adoption of the Articles made few perceptible changes in the federal government, because it did little more than legalize what the Continental Congress had been doing. That body was renamed the Congress of the Confederation; but Americans continued to call it the \"Continental Congress\", since its organization remained the same.\n\nAs the Confederation Congress attempted to govern the continually growing American states, delegates discovered that the limitations placed upon the central government rendered it ineffective at doing so. As the government's weaknesses became apparent, especially after Shays' Rebellion, individuals began asking for changes to the Articles. Their hope was to create a stronger national government. Initially, some states met to deal with their trade and economic problems. However, as more states became interested in meeting to change the Articles, a meeting was set in Philadelphia on May 25, 1787. This became the Constitutional Convention. It was quickly realized that changes would not work, and instead the entire Articles needed to be replaced. On March 4, 1789, the government under the Articles was replaced with the federal government under the Constitution. The new Constitution provided for a much stronger federal government by establishing a chief executive (the President), courts, and taxing powers.\n\nThe political push to increase cooperation among the then-loyal colonies began with the Albany Congress in 1754 and Benjamin Franklin's proposed Albany Plan, an inter-colonial collaboration to help solve mutual local problems. The Articles of Confederation would bear some resemblance to it. Over the next two decades, some of the basic concepts it addressed would strengthen and others would weaken, particularly the degree of deserved loyalty to the crown. With civil disobedience resulting in coercive, and what the colonials perceived as intolerable acts of Parliament, and armed conflict resulting in dissidents being proclaimed rebels and outside the King's protection, any loyalty remaining shifted toward independence and how to achieve it. In 1775, with events outpacing communications, the Second Continental Congress began acting as the provisional government that would run the American Revolutionary War and gain the colonies their collective independence.\n\nIt was an era of constitution writing—most states were busy at the task—and leaders felt the new nation must have a written constitution, even though other nations did not. During the war, Congress exercised an unprecedented level of political, diplomatic, military and economic authority. It adopted trade restrictions, established and maintained an army, issued fiat money, created a military code and negotiated with foreign governments.\n\nTo transform themselves from outlaws into a legitimate nation, the colonists needed international recognition for their cause and foreign allies to support it. In early 1776, Thomas Paine argued in the closing pages of the first edition of \"Common Sense\" that the \"custom of nations\" demanded a formal declaration of American independence if any European power were to mediate a peace between the Americans and Great Britain. The monarchies of France and Spain in particular could not be expected to aid those they considered rebels against another legitimate monarch. Foreign courts needed to have American grievances laid before them persuasively in a \"manifesto\" which could also reassure them that the Americans would be reliable trading partners. Without such a declaration, Paine concluded, \"[t]he custom of all courts is against us, and will be so, until, by an independence, we take rank with other nations.\"\n\nBeyond improving their existing association, the records of the Second Continental Congress show that the need for a declaration of independence was intimately linked with the demands of international relations. On June 7, 1776, Richard Henry Lee introduced a resolution before the Continental Congress declaring the colonies independent; at the same time he also urged Congress to resolve \"to take the most effectual measures for forming foreign Alliances\" and to prepare a plan of confederation for the newly independent states. Congress then created three overlapping committees to draft the Declaration, a Model Treaty, and the Articles of Confederation. The Declaration announced the states' entry into the international system; the model treaty was designed to establish amity and commerce with other states; and the Articles of Confederation, which established \"a firm league\" among the thirteen free and independent states, constituted an international agreement to set up central institutions for the conduct of vital domestic and foreign affairs.\n\nOn June 12, 1776, a day after appointing a committee to prepare a draft of the Declaration of Independence, the Second Continental Congress resolved to appoint a committee of 13 to prepare a draft of a constitution for a union of the states. The committee met repeatedly, and chairman John Dickinson presented their results to the Congress on July 12, 1776. There were long debates on such issues as sovereignty, the exact powers to be given the confederate government, whether to have a judiciary, and voting procedures. The final draft of the Articles was prepared in the summer of 1777 and the Second Continental Congress approved them for ratification by the individual states on November 15, 1777, after a year of debate. Consensus was achieved by dividing sovereignty between the states and the central government, with a unicameral legislature that protected the liberty of the individual states.\n\nThe Articles of Confederation was submitted to the states for ratification in November 1777. The first state to ratify was Virginia on December 16, 1777; 12 states had ratified the Articles by February 1779, 14 months into the process. The lone holdout, Maryland, refused to go along until the landed states, especially Virginia, had indicated they were prepared to cede their claims west of the Ohio River to the Union. It would be two years before the Maryland General Assembly became satisfied that the various states would follow through, and voted to ratify. During this time, Congress observed the Articles as its de facto frame of government. Maryland finally ratified the Articles on February 2, 1781. Congress was informed of Maryland's assent on March 1, and officially proclaimed the Articles of Confederation to be the law of the land. \n\nThe several states ratified the Articles of Confederation on the following dates:\n\nThe Articles of Confederation contain a preamble, thirteen articles, a conclusion, and a signatory section. The individual articles set the rules for current and future operations of the confederation's central government. Under the Articles, the states retained sovereignty over all governmental functions not specifically relinquished to the national Congress, which was empowered to make war and peace, negotiate diplomatic and commercial agreements with foreign countries, and to resolve disputes between the states. The document also stipulates that its provisions \"shall be inviolably observed by every state\" and that \"the Union shall be perpetual\". \n\nSummary of the purpose and content of each of the 13 articles:\n\nUnder the Articles, Congress had the authority to regulate and fund the Continental Army, but it lacked the power to compel the States to comply with requests for either troops or funding. This left the military vulnerable to inadequate funding, supplies, and even food. Further, although the Articles enabled the states to present a unified front when dealing with the European powers, as a tool to build a centralized war-making government, they were largely a failure; Historian Bruce Chadwick wrote:\n\nThe Continental Congress, before the Articles were approved, had promised soldiers a pension of half pay for life. However Congress had no power to compel the states to fund this obligation, and as the war wound down after the victory at Yorktown the sense of urgency to support the military was no longer a factor. No progress was made in Congress during the winter of 1783–84. General Henry Knox, who would later become the first Secretary of War under the Constitution, blamed the weaknesses of the Articles for the inability of the government to fund the army. The army had long been supportive of a strong union. Knox wrote:\n\nAs Congress failed to act on the petitions, Knox wrote to Gouverneur Morris, four years before the Philadelphia Convention was convened, \"As the present Constitution is so defective, why do not you great men call the people together and tell them so; that is, to have a convention of the States to form a better Constitution.\"\n\nOnce the war had been won, the Continental Army was largely disbanded. A very small national force was maintained to man the frontier forts and to protect against Native American attacks. Meanwhile, each of the states had an army (or militia), and 11 of them had navies. The wartime promises of bounties and land grants to be paid for service were not being met. In 1783, George Washington defused the Newburgh conspiracy, but riots by unpaid Pennsylvania veterans forced Congress to leave Philadelphia temporarily.\n\nThe Congress from time to time during the Revolutionary War requisitioned troops from the states. Any contributions were voluntary, and in the debates of 1788 the Federalists (who supported the proposed new Constitution) claimed that state politicians acted unilaterally, and contributed when the Continental army protected their state's interests. The Anti-Federalists claimed that state politicians understood their duty to the Union and contributed to advance its needs. Dougherty (2009) concludes that generally the States' behavior validated the Federalist analysis. This helps explain why the Articles of Confederation needed reforms.\n\nThe 1783 Treaty of Paris, which ended hostilities with Great Britain, languished in Congress for several months because too few delegates were present at any one time to constitute a quorum so that it could be ratified. Afterward, the problem only got worse as Congress had no power to enforce attendance. Rarely did more than half of the roughly sixty delegates attend a session of Congress at the time, causing difficulties in raising a quorum. The resulting paralysis embarrassed and frustrated many American nationalists, including George Washington. Many of the most prominent national leaders, such as Washington, John Adams, John Hancock, and Benjamin Franklin, retired from public life, served as foreign delegates, or held office in state governments; and for the general public, local government and self-rule seemed quite satisfactory. This served to exacerbate Congress's impotence.\n\nInherent weaknesses in the confederation's frame of government also frustrated the ability of the government to conduct foreign policy. In 1786, Thomas Jefferson, concerned over the failure of Congress to fund an American naval force to confront the Barbary pirates, wrote in a diplomatic correspondence to James Monroe that, \"It will be said there is no money in the treasury. There never will be money in the treasury till the Confederacy shows its teeth.\"\n\nFurthermore, the 1786 Jay–Gardoqui Treaty with Spain also showed weakness in foreign policy. In this treaty, which was never ratified, the United States was to give up rights to use the Mississippi River for 25 years, which would have economically strangled the settlers west of the Appalachian Mountains. Finally, due to the Confederation's military weakness, it could not compel the British army to leave frontier forts which were on American soil — forts which, in 1783, the British promised to leave, but which they delayed leaving pending U.S. implementation of other provisions such as ending action against Loyalists and allowing them to seek compensation. This incomplete British implementation of the Treaty of Paris would later be resolved by the implementation of Jay's Treaty in 1795, after the federal Constitution came into force.\n\nUnder the Articles of Confederation, the central government's power was kept quite limited. The Confederation Congress could make decisions, but lacked enforcement powers. Implementation of most decisions, including modifications to the Articles, required unanimous approval of all thirteen state legislatures.\n\nCongress was denied any powers of taxation: it could only request money from the states. The states often failed to meet these requests in full, leaving both Congress and the Continental Army chronically short of money. As more money was printed by Congress, the continental dollars depreciated. In 1779, George Washington wrote to John Jay, who was serving as the president of the Continental Congress, \"that a wagon load of money will scarcely purchase a wagon load of provisions.\" Mr. Jay and the Congress responded in May by requesting $45 million from the States. In an appeal to the States to comply, Jay wrote that the taxes were \"the price of liberty, the peace, and the safety of yourselves and posterity.\" He argued that Americans should avoid having it said \"that America had no sooner become independent than she became insolvent\" or that \"her infant glories and growing fame were obscured and tarnished by broken contracts and violated faith.\" The States did not respond with any of the money requested from them.\n\nCongress had also been denied the power to regulate either foreign trade or interstate commerce and, as a result, all of the States maintained control over their own trade policies. The states and the Confederation Congress both incurred large debts during the Revolutionary War, and how to repay those debts became a major issue of debate following the War. Some States paid off their war debts and others did not. Federal assumption of the states' war debts became a major issue in the deliberations of the Constitutional Convention.\n\nNevertheless, the Confederation Congress did take two actions with long-lasting impact. The Land Ordinance of 1785 and Northwest Ordinance created territorial government, set up protocols for the admission of new states and the division of land into useful units, and set aside land in each township for public use. This system represented a sharp break from imperial colonization, as in Europe, and it established the precedent by which the national (later, federal) government would be sovereign and expand westward—as opposed to the existing states doing so under their sovereignty.\n\nThe Land Ordinance of 1785 established both the general practices of land surveying in the west and northwest and the land ownership provisions used throughout the later westward expansion beyond the Mississippi River. Frontier lands were surveyed into the now-familiar squares of land called the township (36 square miles), the section (one square mile), and the quarter section (160 acres). This system was carried forward to most of the States west of the Mississippi (excluding areas of Texas and California that had already been surveyed and divided up by the Spanish Empire). Then, when the Homestead Act was enacted in 1867, the quarter section became the basic unit of land that was granted to new settler-farmers.\n\nThe Northwest Ordinance of 1787 noted the agreement of the original states to give up northwestern land claims, organized the Northwest Territory and laid the groundwork for the eventual creation of new states. While it didn't happen under the articles, the land north of the Ohio River and west of the (present) western border of Pennsylvania ceded by Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, eventually became the states of: Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, and the part of Minnesota east of the Mississippi River. The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 also made great advances in the abolition of slavery. New states admitted to the union in this territory would never be slave states.\n\nNo new states were admitted to the Union under the Articles of Confederation. The Articles provided for a blanket acceptance of the Province of Quebec (referred to as \"Canada\" in the Articles) into the United States if it chose to do so. It did not, and the subsequent Constitution carried no such special provision of admission. Additionally, ordinances to admit Frankland (later modified to Franklin), Kentucky, and Vermont to the Union were considered, but none were approved.\n\nUnder the Articles of Confederation, the presiding officer of Congress—referred to in many official records as \"President of the United States in Congress Assembled\"—chaired the Committee of the States when Congress was in recess, and performed other administrative functions. He was not, however, an executive in the way the later President of the United States is a chief executive, since all of the functions he executed were under the direct control of Congress.\n\nThere were 10 presidents of Congress under the Articles. The first, Samuel Huntington, had been serving as president of the Continental Congress since September 28, 1779.\n\nThe peace treaty left the United States independent and at peace but with an unsettled governmental structure. The Articles envisioned a permanent confederation, but granted to the Congress—the only federal institution—little power to finance itself or to ensure that its resolutions were enforced. There was no president, no executive agencies, no judiciary and no tax base. The absence of a tax base meant that there was no way to pay off state and national debts from the war years except by requesting money from the states, which seldom arrived. Although historians generally agree that the Articles were too weak to hold the fast-growing nation together, they do give credit to the settlement of the western issue, as the states voluntarily turned over their lands to national control.\n\nBy 1783, with the end of the British blockade, the new nation was regaining its prosperity. However, trade opportunities were restricted by the mercantilism of the British and French empires. The ports of the British West Indies were closed to all staple products which were not carried in British ships. France and Spain established similar policies. Simultaneously, new manufacturers faced sharp competition from British products which were suddenly available again. Political unrest in several states and efforts by debtors to use popular government to erase their debts increased the anxiety of the political and economic elites which had led the Revolution. The apparent inability of the Congress to redeem the public obligations (debts) incurred during the war, or to become a forum for productive cooperation among the states to encourage commerce and economic development, only aggravated a gloomy situation. In 1786–87, Shays' Rebellion, an uprising of dissidents in western Massachusetts against the state court system, threatened the stability of state government.\n\nThe Continental Congress printed paper money which was so depreciated that it ceased to pass as currency, spawning the expression \"not worth a continental\". Congress could not levy taxes and could only make requisitions upon the States. Less than a million and a half dollars came into the treasury between 1781 and 1784, although the governors had been asked for two million in 1783 alone.\n\nWhen John Adams went to London in 1785 as the first representative of the United States, he found it impossible to secure a treaty for unrestricted commerce. Demands were made for favors and there was no assurance that individual states would agree to a treaty. Adams stated it was necessary for the States to confer the power of passing navigation laws to Congress, or that the States themselves pass retaliatory acts against Great Britain. Congress had already requested and failed to get power over navigation laws. Meanwhile, each State acted individually against Great Britain to little effect. When other New England states closed their ports to British shipping, Connecticut hastened to profit by opening its ports.\n\nBy 1787 Congress was unable to protect manufacturing and shipping. State legislatures were unable or unwilling to resist attacks upon private contracts and public credit. Land speculators expected no rise in values when the government could not defend its borders nor protect its frontier population.\n\nThe idea of a convention to revise the Articles of Confederation grew in favor. Alexander Hamilton realized while serving as Washington's top aide that a strong central government was necessary to avoid foreign intervention and allay the frustrations due to an ineffectual Congress. Hamilton led a group of like-minded nationalists, won Washington's endorsement, and convened the Annapolis Convention in 1786 to petition Congress to call a constitutional convention to meet in Philadelphia to remedy the long-term crisis.\n\nThe Second Continental Congress approved the Articles for distribution to the states on November 15, 1777. A copy was made for each state and one was kept by the Congress. On November 28, the copies sent to the states for ratification were unsigned, and the cover letter, dated November 17, had only the signatures of Henry Laurens and Charles Thomson, who were the President and Secretary to the Congress.\n\nThe Articles, however, were unsigned, and the date was blank. Congress began the signing process by examining their copy of the Articles on June 27, 1778. They ordered a final copy prepared (the one in the National Archives), and that delegates should inform the secretary of their authority for ratification.\n\nOn July 9, 1778, the prepared copy was ready. They dated it, and began to sign. They also requested each of the remaining states to notify its delegation when ratification was completed. On that date, delegates present from New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and South Carolina signed the Articles to indicate that their states had ratified. New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland could not, since their states had not ratified. North Carolina and Georgia also were unable to sign that day, since their delegations were absent.\n\nAfter the first signing, some delegates signed at the next meeting they attended. For example, John Wentworth of New Hampshire added his name on August 8. John Penn was the first of North Carolina's delegates to arrive (on July 10), and the delegation signed the Articles on July 21, 1778.\n\nThe other states had to wait until they ratified the Articles and notified their Congressional delegation. Georgia signed on July 24, New Jersey on November 26, and Delaware on February 12, 1779. Maryland refused to ratify the Articles until every state had ceded its western land claims. Chevalier de La Luzerne, French Minister to the United States, felt that the Articles would help strengthen the American government. In 1780 when Maryland requested France provide naval forces in the Chesapeake Bay for protection from the British (who were conducting raids in the lower part of the bay), he indicated that French Admiral Destouches would do what he could but La Luzerne also “sharply pressed” Maryland to ratify the Articles, thus suggesting the two issues were related.\nOn February 2, 1781, the much-awaited decision was taken by the Maryland General Assembly in Annapolis. As the last piece of business during the afternoon Session, \"among engrossed Bills\" was \"signed and sealed by Governor Thomas Sim Lee in the Senate Chamber, in the presence of the members of both Houses... an Act to empower the delegates of this state in Congress to subscribe and ratify the articles of confederation\" and perpetual union among the states. The Senate then adjourned \"to the first Monday in August next.\" The decision of Maryland to ratify the Articles was reported to the Continental Congress on February 12. The confirmation signing of the Articles by the two Maryland delegates took place in Philadelphia at noon time on March 1, 1781, and was celebrated in the afternoon. With these events, the Articles were entered into force and the United States of America came into being as a sovereign federal state.\n\nCongress had debated the Articles for over a year and a half, and the ratification process had taken nearly three and a half years. Many participants in the original debates were no longer delegates, and some of the signers had only recently arrived. The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union were signed by a group of men who were never present in the Congress at the same time.\nThe signers and the states they represented were:\nConnecticut\n\nDelaware\n\nGeorgia\n\nMaryland\n\nMassachusetts Bay\n\nNew Hampshire\nNew Jersey\n\nNew York\n\nNorth Carolina\n\nPennsylvania\n\nRhode Island and Providence Plantations\n\nSouth Carolina\n\nVirginia\nRoger Sherman (Connecticut) was the only person to sign all four great state papers of the United States: the Continental Association, the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.\n\nRobert Morris (Pennsylvania) signed three of the great state papers of the United States: the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.\n\nJohn Dickinson (Delaware), Daniel Carroll (Maryland) and Gouverneur Morris (New York), along with Sherman and Robert Morris, were the only five people to sign both the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution (Gouverneur Morris represented Pennsylvania when signing the Constitution).\n\nOriginal parchment pages of the Articles of Confederation, National Archives and Records Administration.\nOn January 21, 1786, the Virginia Legislature, following James Madison's recommendation, invited all the states to send delegates to Annapolis, Maryland to discuss ways to reduce interstate conflict. At what came to be known as the Annapolis Convention, the few state delegates in attendance endorsed a motion that called for all states to meet in Philadelphia in May 1787 to discuss ways to improve the Articles of Confederation in a \"Grand Convention.\" Although the states' representatives to the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia were only authorized to amend the Articles, the representatives held secret, closed-door sessions and wrote a new constitution. The new Constitution gave much more power to the central government, but characterization of the result is disputed. The general goal of the authors was to get close to a republic as defined by the philosophers of the Age of Enlightenment, while trying to address the many difficulties of the interstate relationships. Historian Forrest McDonald, using the ideas of James Madison from \"Federalist 39\", describes the change this way:\n\nIn May 1786, Charles Pinckney of South Carolina proposed that Congress revise the Articles of Confederation. Recommended changes included granting Congress power over foreign and domestic commerce, and providing means for Congress to collect money from state treasuries. Unanimous approval was necessary to make the alterations, however, and Congress failed to reach a consensus. The weakness of the Articles in establishing an effective unifying government was underscored by the threat of internal conflict both within and between the states, especially after Shays' Rebellion threatened to topple the state government of Massachusetts.\n\nHistorian Ralph Ketcham comments on the opinions of Patrick Henry, George Mason, and other Anti-Federalists who were not so eager to give up the local autonomy won by the revolution:\n\nHistorians have given many reasons for the perceived need to replace the articles in 1787. Jillson and Wilson (1994) point to the financial weakness as well as the norms, rules and institutional structures of the Congress, and the propensity to divide along sectional lines.\n\nRakove (1988) identifies several factors that explain the collapse of the Confederation. The lack of compulsory direct taxation power was objectionable to those wanting a strong centralized state or expecting to benefit from such power. It could not collect customs after the war because tariffs were vetoed by Rhode Island. Rakove concludes that their failure to implement national measures \"stemmed not from a heady sense of independence but rather from the enormous difficulties that all the states encountered in collecting taxes, mustering men, and gathering supplies from a war-weary populace.\" The second group of factors Rakove identified derived from the substantive nature of the problems the Continental Congress confronted after 1783, especially the inability to create a strong foreign policy. Finally, the Confederation's lack of coercive power reduced the likelihood for profit to be made by political means, thus potential rulers were uninspired to seek power.\n\nWhen the war ended in 1783, certain special interests had incentives to create a new \"merchant state,\" much like the British state people had rebelled against. In particular, holders of war scrip and land speculators wanted a central government to pay off scrip at face value and to legalize western land holdings with disputed claims. Also, manufacturers wanted a high tariff as a barrier to foreign goods, but competition among states made this impossible without a central government.\n\nPolitical scientist David C. Hendrickson writes that two prominent political leaders in the Confederation, John Jay of New York and Thomas Burke of North Carolina believed that \"the authority of the congress rested on the prior acts of the several states, to which the states gave their voluntary consent, and until those obligations were fulfilled, neither nullification of the authority of congress, exercising its due powers, nor secession from the compact itself was consistent with the terms of their original pledges.\"\n\nAccording to Article XIII of the Confederation, any alteration had to be approved unanimously: \n[T]he Articles of this Confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union shall be perpetual; nor shall any alteration at any time hereafter be made in any of them; unless such alteration be agreed to in a Congress of the United States, and be afterwards confirmed by the legislatures of every State.\n\nOn the other hand, Article VII of the proposed Constitution stated that it would become effective after ratification by a mere nine states, without unanimity:\nThe Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same.\n\nThe apparent tension between these two provisions was addressed at the time, and remains a topic of scholarly discussion. In 1788, James Madison remarked (in \"Federalist No. 40\") that the issue had become moot: \"As this objection...has been in a manner waived by those who have criticised the powers of the convention, I dismiss it without further observation.\" Nevertheless, it is an interesting historical and legal question whether opponents of the Constitution could have plausibly attacked the Constitution on that ground. At the time, there were state legislators who argued that the Constitution was not an alteration of the Articles of Confederation, but rather would be a complete replacement so the unanimity rule did not apply. Moreover, the Confederation had proven woefully inadequate and therefore was supposedly no longer binding.\n\nModern scholars such as Francisco Forrest Martin agree that the Articles of Confederation had lost its binding force because many states had violated it, and thus \"other states-parties did not have to comply with the Articles' unanimous consent rule\". In contrast, law professor Akhil Amar suggests that there may not have really been any conflict between the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution on this point; Article VI of the Confederation specifically allowed side deals among states, and the Constitution could be viewed as a side deal until all states ratified it.\n\nOn July 3, 1788, the Congress received New Hampshire's all-important ninth ratification of the proposed Constitution, thus, according to its terms, establishing it as the new framework of governance for the ratifying states. The following day delegates considered a bill to admit Kentucky into the Union as a sovereign state. The discussion ended with Congress making the determination that, in light of this development, it would be \"unadvisable\" to admit Kentucky into the Union, as it could do so \"under the Articles of Confederation\" only, but not \"under the Constitution\".\n\nBy the end of July 1788, 11 of the 13 states had ratified the new Constitution. Congress continued to convene under the Articles with a quorum until October. On Saturday, September 13, 1788, the Confederation Congress voted the resolve to implement the new Constitution, and on Monday, September 15 published an announcement that the new Constitution had been ratified by the necessary nine states, set the first Wednesday in February 1789 for the presidential electors to meet and select a new president, and set the first Wednesday of March 1789 as the day the new government would take over and the government under the Articles of Confederation would come to an end.\n\nOn that same September 13, it determined that New York would remain the national capital.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "635905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635905", "title": "Carlsbad Decrees", "text": "Carlsbad Decrees\n\nThe Carlsbad Decrees were a set of reactionary restrictions introduced in the states of the German Confederation by resolution of the Bundesversammlung on 20 September 1819 after a conference held in the spa town of Carlsbad, Bohemia. They banned nationalist fraternities (\"Burschenschaften\"), removed liberal university professors, and expanded the censorship of the press. They were aimed at quelling a growing sentiment for German unification and were passed during ongoing Hep-Hep riots which ended within a month after the resolution was passed.\n\nThe meeting of the state's representatives was called by the Austrian Minister of State Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich after the liberal Burschenschaft student Karl Ludwig Sand had murdered the conservative writer August von Kotzebue on 23 March 1819, and an attempt had been made by apothecary Karl Löning on the life of Nassau president Karl von Ibell on 1 July 1819. In the course of the European Restoration Metternich feared liberal and national tendencies at German universities which might conduct revolutionary activities threatening the monarchistic order. At this time, the two outrages cited were a welcome pretext to take action.\n\nThe Carlsbad Decrees had consequences not only for the rights of the member states but also for the independent Academic Jurisdiction that had partially been in existence for centuries. An important instrument for the application of the Decrees for these and other purposes was the Mainzer Zentraluntersuchungskommission.\n\nAn essential attribute of the decrees was that the reactionary German Confederation understood liberal and nationalistic ideas as sedition and persecuted those spreading these ideas as demagogues. This persecution of demagogues, \"Demagogenverfolgung\", was especially vigorous in Prussia.\n\nAfter the Hambach Festival in 1832 the persecution was renewed for the last time. Only after the March Revolution of 1848 were the Carlsbad Decrees abrogated by the German Bundestag, on 2 April 1848.\n\nThe decrees effectively dissolved the Burschenschaften Studentenverbindungen as well as the Turnerschaften and also provided for university inspectors and press censors. Reformers in many local governments were forced out and by 1820 all significant German reform movements had come to an end. The decrees were organized into three sections.\nRef: \n\n1. A special representative of the ruler of each state shall be appointed for each university, with appropriate instructions and extended powers, and shall reside in the place where the university is situated. This office may devolve upon the existing curator or upon any other individual whom the government may deem qualified.The function of this agent shall be to see to the strictest enforcement of existing laws and disciplinary regulations ; to observe carefully the spirit which is shown by the instructors in the university in their public lectures and regular courses, and, without directly interfering in scientific matters or in the methods of teaching, to give a salutary direction to the instruction, having in view the future attitude of the students. Lastly, he shall devote unceasing attention to everything that may promote morality, good order, and outward propriety among the students.\n\n2. The confederated governments mutually pledge themselves to remove from the universities or other public educational institutions all teachers who, by obvious deviation from their duty, or by exceeding the limits of their functions, or by the abuse of their legitimate influence over the youthful minds, or by propagating harmful doctrines hostile to public order or subversive of existing governmental institutions, shall have unmistakably proved their unfitness for the important office entrusted to them.\n\nNo teacher who shall have been removed in this manner shall be again appointed to a position in any public institution of learning in another state of the union.\n\n3. Those laws which have for a long period been directed against secret and unauthorized societies in the universities shall be strictly enforced. These laws apply especially to that association established some years since under the name Universal Students' Union (Allgemeine Burschenschaft), since the very conception of the society implies the utterly unallowable plan of permanent fellowship and constant communication between the various universities. The duty of especial watchfulness in this matter should be impressed upon the special agents of the government.\n\nThe governments mutually agree that such persons as shall hereafter be shown to have remained in secret or unauthorized associations, or shall have entered such associations, shall not be admitted to any public office.\n\n4. No student who shall be expelled from a university by a decision of the university senate which was ratified or prompted by the agent of the government, or who shall have left the institution in order to escape expulsion shall be received in any other university.\n\nRef: \n\n§1: So long as this decree shall remain in force no publication which appears in the form of daily issues, or as a serial not exceeding twenty sheets of printed matter, shall go to press in any state of the union without the previous knowledge and approval of the state officials.\n\nWritings which do not belong to one of the above-mentioned classes shall be treated according to the laws now in force, or which may be enacted, in the individual states of the union.\n\n§2: Each state of the union is responsible, not only to the state against which the offense is directly committed, but to the whole Confederation, for every publication appearing under its supervision in which the honor or security of other states is infringed or their constitution or administration attacked.\n\n§3: The Diet shall have the right, moreover, to suppress on its own authority, without being petitioned, such writings included in Article I, in whatever German state they may appear, as, in the opinion of a commission appointed by it, are inimical to the honor of the union, the safety of individual states, or the maintenance of peace and quiet in Germany. There shall be no appeal from such decisions, and the governments involved are bound to see that they are put into execution.\n\n§7: When a newspaper or periodical is suppressed by a decision of the Diet, the editor thereof may not within a period of five years edit a similar publication in any state of the union.\n\nRef: \n\n1. Within a fortnight, reckoned from the passage of this decree, there shall convene, under the auspices of the Confederation, in the city and federal fortress of Mainz, an extraordinary commission of investigation to consist of seven members, including the chairman.\n\n2. The object of the commission shall be a joint investigation, as thorough and extensive as possible, of the facts relating to the origin and manifold ramifications of the revolutionary plots and demagogical associations directed against the existing constitution and the internal peace both of the union and of the individual states; of the existence of which plots more or less clear evidence is to be had already, or may be produced in the course of the investigation.\n\n10. The central investigating commission is to furnish the Diet from time to time with a report of the results of the investigation, which is to be carried out as speedily as possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21955073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21955073", "title": "Centre for Appropriate Rural Technology", "text": "Centre for Appropriate Rural Technology\n\nThe Centre for Appropriate Rural Technology (CART) is a community-driven sustainable development project located in the Eastern Cape of South Africa. It functions as a life skills centre in the heart of Sicambeni Village, a rural village near Port St Johns.\n\nThe Eastern Cape is South Africa’s poorest region and has for many years been a victim of massive skill loss due to the migration of workers to the larger cities in seek of work. Invariably these migrants find themselves living in the already overcrowded Township (South Africa) compounding South Africa’s desperate slum culture.\nHaving accrued 15 years of experience working in several African Countries, building communities with the homeless, CART was formed as a centre to tackle poverty in a more holistic way. CART aims to give the local population the skills and technology to allow them to live self-sustainably without the need to seek work outside of their own villages, ultimately allowing the migrants to return to their homelands.\n\nCART’s primary goal is to complete the self sustainable model, serving as the epicentre to the surrounding village of over four hundred families. Technology developed here is being taught to and implemented within the community to produce a fully sustainable village. CART ensures that any technology implemented can be replicated in other rural environments, allowing this sustainable village to become a living example to other communities around South Africa and Globally. \n\nCART operates numerous other initiatives, including innovative farming techniques, to provide much needed nutritional enrichment and a HIV support group offering nutritional, physical and spiritual healing. \n\nOne of the primary goals of CART is to experiment with and implement technologies that can be used sustainably in a rural environment. This includes effective water, waste, energy and building systems.\n\nThe aerated, raised beds can be implemented anywhere but are ideally suited to areas that have high clay content in the soil structure. Though clay-rich soil is ideal for keeping nutrients in the soil, it can also retain too much water. The raised structure design allows better drainage, minimizes the threat of root rot, and enables rooting vegetables (carrots, beets, onions, etc.) to grow significantly larger than when planted in the ground. The structure's unique shape also makes monitoring the fertility easier and the overall planting surface is greatly improved.\n\nThe garden resembles a compost heap with green matter placed on the very bottom of the structure, which is made from lengths of thin poles (latte). Decomposed material (wood chips, leaves, etc.) is layered on top of the green matter, followed by a mix of soil and compost. Seedlings are planted and mulched on top of the bed while herbs are planted on the sides, creating a network of strong roots to help contain the soil in the garden structure.\n\nA hand-operated mechanical press creates stabilised bricks. Clay based soil mixed with five percent cement is used to form the base of the bricks.\n\nWater management problems mean that only one crop per year is grown. Sometime the community has little choice but to drink from contaminated rivers. The project aims to improve on this by using year round planting and more effective water management techniques.\n\nOne of the most common problems facing rural communities around the world is that of waste disposal. The incorrect disposal of animal and human waste can lead to the poisoning of waterways, render land un-farmable and cause numerous fatal diseases such as Cholera, Typhoid and Diphtheria. CART needed a way to not only dispose of its waste but also to find a way of actually making this waste useful. After much research it was decided that a Biodigester could provide the solution to this problem, however no design existed that could be cheaply replicated in rural areas – so CART made one. Conventional Biodigesters cost in the region of US$30,000, CART’s costs about US$500.\n\nThe simple design consists of a hole 7m x 1.5m x 1.5m into which a reinforced PVC cylindrical black bag is placed. At one end is the ‘inlet’ situated at the bottom of the bag, a pipe from the toilet block brings all human waste into the bag together with a hatch for animal and kitchen waste. Two outlet pipes are situated at the other end of the bag, one at the top for gas removal the other is 1/3 of the way up for liquid removal. The design incorporates a black colour so as to attract solar heat to accelerate decomposition. The placement of the outlet pipe is important as it is necessary to maintain 1/3 liquids : 2/3 gas.\n\nDue to the sealed nature of the bag all this waste begins to decompose anaerobically releasing methane gas, water and sludge waste whilst also killing harmful pathogens such as E-Coli. The methane gas is released and captured using the valve at the top of the outlet end of the bag, this gas can be used for cooking, lighting and heating (although CART currently intend to use the gas solely for cooking.) The water is released through the outlet pipe, this water is known as ‘High nutrient’ or ‘Black’ water. Less than 10% of the products are solids and therefore only need removing from the bag every few years, these solids can be used as a high nutrient fertiliser for fruit trees or for plants where the fertiliser does not come into direct contact with the crop. The black water is mixed with grey waters, such as shower or washing water (N.B CART only uses organic, bio-degradable washing products to ensure no toxins are introduced to the cycle.) This water is filtered through sand and charcoal and used to irrigate the food gardens. Excess water, together with runoff from the gardens is collected in the Dam, from which it can be used to water gardens in the dry season or filtered further making it safe for drinking (see water cycle).\n\nThe indoor garden is a conceptual design for a compact, portable garden that can be put in almost any living space. Ideally, the garden would be put under a south-facing window (in the northern hemisphere), and would provide enough food to sustain a family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49032230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49032230", "title": "Competition Tribunal", "text": "Competition Tribunal\n\nThe Competition Tribunal is an federal adjudicative body in Canada that makes findings in regard to competition laws under the Competition Act.\n\nThe tribunal was first known under its former name, the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission. The Commission was empowered to investigate suspected offenses under the \"Combines Investigation Act\", the precursor to the modern \"Competition Act\".\n\nIn 1986, the Government of Canada introduced simultaneously the \"Competition Act\" and the \"Competition Tribunal Act\". The Act dissolved the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission and created the Competition Tribunal and the Competition Bureau. Unlike the Commission, the Competition Tribunal has no authority to investigate offenses. Rather, it simply can make findings and issue remedial orders. The Competition Bureau carries out investigations.\n\nThe Tribunal is made up of both judges and expert lay people. Judges adjudicate issues of law, while judges and lay people may adjudicate issues of mixed law and fact. The Tribunal's decisions may be appealed to the Federal Court of Appeal.\n\nAs of 2012, the Competition Tribunal had adjudicated only six contested merger cases. The vast majority of cases are resolved by the Bureau prior to reaching the Tribunal.\n\nIn 2015, the Tribunal ruled in favour of Canadian Real Estate Association in a case brought by the Bureau. The Bureau argued that a number of restrictions imposed by the CREA on private sellers hoping to list their homes on multiple listing service were contrary to a 2010 deal. The Tribunal later scheduled a rehearing on the issue in September 2015.\n\nCompetition Tribunal website\n"}
{"id": "27178386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27178386", "title": "Compulsory prosecution", "text": "Compulsory prosecution\n\nCompulsory prosecution is an aspect of certain justice systems in which the prosecutor is required to press charges when he has sufficient evidence to support a conviction. This system is used in Germany. It has also been required by the Constitution of Italy since 1948. The lack of such a requirement in the United States tends to encourage plea bargaining.\n"}
{"id": "30372453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30372453", "title": "Consumer Protection Act", "text": "Consumer Protection Act\n\nConsumer Protection Act may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50718899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50718899", "title": "Criminal Justice Act 1953", "text": "Criminal Justice Act 1953\n\nThe Criminal Justice Act 1953 () is a Malaysian law which enacted relating to penal servitude, methods of imprisonment and whipping; and for purposes connected therewith.\n\nSection 3 provides that a sentence of imprisonment for life is deemed as 30 years imprisonment. Previously, a life sentence was deemed to be 20 years until the Act was amended by the Criminal Justice (Amendment) Act 2007. However, there are some Acts (e.g. Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act 1971) that provides for the imprisonment for the duration of the natural life of the person sentenced, notwithstanding Section 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 1953.\n\nThe Criminal Justice Act 1953, in its current form (1 June 2013), consists of 6 sections and no schedule (including 3 amendments), without separate Part.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44808126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44808126", "title": "Crumbling skull rule", "text": "Crumbling skull rule\n\nThe crumbling skull rule is a well-established legal doctrine used in some tort law systems. It holds that where a plaintiff had a condition or injury that predates the tort and would have naturally deteriorated or worsened over time (e.g. a crumbling skull), the defendant is not responsible to the degree that the condition or injury would have naturally worsened over time. A defendant is only liable for the degree the injury was worsened or the hastening or acceleration of the damage caused by the tort. The crumbling skull rule should not be confused with the related thin skull rule.\n\nThe concept is sometimes applied without specific reference to the crumbling skull rule, instead being expressed as a non-absolute application of the thin skull rule.\n"}
{"id": "26415234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26415234", "title": "Customs valuation", "text": "Customs valuation\n\nCustoms valuation is the process where customs authorities assign a monetary value to a good or service for the purposes of import or export. Generally, authorities engage in this process as a means of protecting tariff concessions, collecting revenue for the governing authority, implementing trade policy, and protecting public health and safety. Customs duties, and the need for customs valuation, have existed for thousands of years among different cultures, with evidence of their use in the Roman Empire, the Han Dynasty and the Indian sub-continent. The first recorded customs tariff was from 136 in Palmyra, an oasis city in the Syrian desert. Beginning near the end of the 20th century, the procedures used throughout most of the world for customs valuation were codified in the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1994.\n\nArticle VII of the GATT outlines the requirements for Valuation for Customs Purposes, and is applicable to all members of the World Trade Organization. The Agreement on Implementation of Article VII (known as the WTO Agreement on Customs Valuation or the “Valuation Agreement”) ensures that determinations of the customs value for the application of duty rates to imported goods are conducted in a neutral and uniform manner, precluding the use of arbitrary or fictitious customs values.\n\nThe Agreement was negotiated during the Tokyo Round, but at that time its acceptance was voluntary. Adherence to the Agreement became mandatory as part of membership in the WTO subsequent to the Uruguay Round. The Agreement is administered by the WTO Committee on Customs Valuation, which holds two formal meetings a year. The Agreement also established a Technical Committee on Customs Valuation, which operates under the auspices of the World Customs Organization (WCO), with a view to ensuring, at the technical level, uniformity in interpretation and application of the Agreement. The Technical Committee also meets twice a year.\n\nThe Agreement has four major parts in addition to a preamble and three annexes. Part I sets out substantive rules of customs valuation. Part II provides for the international administration of the Agreement and for dispute resolution. Part III provides for special and differential treatment for developing countries, and Part IV contains the so-called final provisions dealing with matters such as acceptance and accession of the Agreement, reservations, and servicing of the Agreement.\n\nThe agreement gives customs administrations the right to request further information of importers where they have reason to doubt the accuracy of the declared value of imported goods. If the administration maintains a reasonable doubt, despite any additional information, it may be deemed that the customs value of the imported goods cannot be determined on the basis of the declared value, and customs would need to establish the value taking into account the provisions of the Agreement.\n\nThe primary basis for customs valuation under the Agreement is “transaction value” as defined in Article 1. Article 1 defines transaction value as “the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation.” Article 1 must be read together with Article 8, which lets Customs authorities make adjustments to the transaction value in cases where certain specific parts of the good - considered to be a part of the value for customs purposes - are incurred by the buyer but are not actually included in the price paid or payable for the imported goods. Article 8 also allows for the inclusion in transaction value of exchanges (\"considerations\") between the buyer and seller in forms other than money. Articles 2 through 7 provide methods of determining the customs value whenever it cannot be determined under the provisions of Article 1.\n\nThe methods of customs valuation, in descending order of precedence, are:\nThis hierarchy is codified in domestic legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044451", "title": "Duty to warn", "text": "Duty to warn\n\nA duty to warn is a concept that arises in the law of torts in a number of circumstances, indicating that a party will be held liable for injuries caused to another, where the party had the opportunity to warn the other of a hazard and failed to do so.\n\nThe duty to warn arises in product liability cases, as manufacturers can be held liable for injuries caused by their products if the product causes an injury to a consumer and the manufacturer fails to supply adequate warnings about the risks of using the product (such as side effects from pharmacy prescriptions) or if they fail to supply adequate instructions for the proper use of the product (such as a precaution to use safety glasses when using a drill). If the manufacturer fails to supply these warnings, the law will consider the product itself to be defective.\n\nA lawsuit by a party injured by a product, where the manufacturer failed to properly warn, is usually brought as a \"negligence\" action, but it could be filed as a \"strict liability\" claim or as a \"breach of warranty of merchantability\" case.\n\nSamsung issued a warning with respect to its Galaxy Note 7 smart phone because of concerns about the product's safety.\n\nMost notably, a property owner has a duty to warn persons on the property of various hazards, depending on the status of the person on the property. For example, the property owner must warn an anticipated or discovered trespasser of deadly conditions known to the property owner, but that would be hidden from the trespasser. The property owner must warn licensees of \"all\" known hazards (whether deadly or not), and must warn invitees of all dangers that the property owner can discover through a reasonable inspection of the property.\n\nIn clinical psychological practice in the United States, duty to warn requires a clinician who has reasonable grounds to believe that a client may be in imminent danger of harming himself or others to warn the possible victims. Duty to warn is among the few exceptions to a client's right to confidentiality and the therapist's ethical obligation to maintain confidential information related in the context of the therapeutic relationship. In the American Psychological Association's Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct, the therapist's duty to warn is implicitly contained within the guidelines for disclosure of confidential information without the consent of the client: \"Psychologists disclose confidential information without the consent of the individual only as mandated by law, or where permitted by law for a valid purpose such as to … protect the client/patient, psychologist, or others from harm.\" In situations when there is cause for serious concern about a client harming someone, the clinician must breach confidentiality to warn the identified victim/third party about imminent danger. Although laws vary somewhat in different states, in general, the danger must be imminent and the breach of confidentiality should be made to someone who is in a position to reduce the risk of the danger. People who would be appropriate recipients of such information would include the intended victim and law enforcement.\n\nDuty to warn is embedded in the historical context of two rulings (1974 and 1976) of the California Supreme Court in the case of \"Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California\". The legal case was brought by the Tarasoff family after their daughter, Tatiana Tarasoff, was murdered by Prosenjit Poddar, who had received psychological services in the university counseling center. Poddar had made it known to his psychologist, during a session, that he wanted to kill Tarasoff, and his psychologist informed the campus police, following the session, of the danger that Poddar posed to himself and others and suggested that hospitalization might be necessary. The psychologist also wrote a letter requesting assistance to the chief of campus police. Upon investigation by the police, during which Poddar was briefly detained for questioning, he was released because his mental state seemed to be stable and rational. Shortly thereafter, the director of the department of psychiatry at Cowell Hospital asked for the police to return the letter and ordered that Poddar's therapy notes should be destroyed. No one ever warned Tatiana Tarasoff. Poddar killed Tatiana Tarasoff on October 27, 1969, and her parents filed suit against several of the organizations and individuals who had been involved. The case was initially dismissed by a lower court, but her parents appealed to the California Supreme Court, which upheld the appeal in 1974 and reaffirmed the ruling in 1976. The case was settled out of court when Tarasoff's parents received a substantial sum of money.\n\nExplicit in the court's decision was the principle that the confidentiality of the therapeutic relationship is subordinate to the safety of society and its members. Despite the value and importance of protecting the client and their feelings, and thus the physician-client relationship, the court decided that the clinician's duty to society as a citizen of that society places certain limitations on the clinician's loyalty to a client's secrets, divulged in the context of the therapeutic relationship.\n\nSome have decried the court's decision as a limitation of the foundation for the therapeutic relationship and progress, the client's expectation of confidentiality. Max Siegel, a former president of the American Psychological Association, defended the therapist's right to confidentiality as sacrosanct, under any circumstances. Furthermore, he suggested that had Poddar's psychologist maintained confidentiality, instead of alerting the police, Poddar might have remained in counseling and Tarasoff's death might have been averted through Poddar's psychological treatment. Limitations to confidentiality are a critical concern for clinicians, because a relationship of trust between the therapist and client is the prerequisite context for therapeutic growth. Without the client's expectation that the therapist will honor the client's confidences divulged in the therapeutic dialogue, the client will not have the freedom to unveil the most troublesome and private issues that are matters of the utmost concern and need for intervention. Some argue that if clients cannot depend on confidentiality in all matters that are related in therapy, potentially dangerous clients, who may be most in need of psychological services, will avoid therapy, thus missing the opportunity for intervention. If a trend of restrictions on confidentiality develops in legislation, some argue that the ability of therapists and counselors to effectively practice and facilitate clients' growth may be significantly impaired.\n\nOther cases similar to the issues addressed in the Tarasoff case have been brought to the attention of the courts, such as the \"Jablonski by Pahls v. United States\". The conclusion of that case extended the responsibility entailed in the duty to warn with the judgment that the clinician may be liable for failure to review previous records, which may contain history of previous violent behavior, a predictor of potential future violence.\n\nRecent consideration of applying the duty to warn has raised questions regarding therapists' responsibility to breach confidentiality in order to report clients' nonviolent behaviors which may pose danger to others, as in the case of clients with HIV/AIDS. Clients with HIV/AIDS who are sexually promiscuous or share needles may pose risks to their companions, who may be unaware of the client's health condition. Although the possibility of infection that may result is a factor of concern, the duty to warn currently does not prescribe breaking confidentiality in these cases. In such cases, there may be uncertainty regarding potential victims and, perhaps, ignorance about the occurrence of behaviors that would pose the danger of transmission. Furthermore, many states prohibit the disclosure of information about HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe application of duty-to-warn laws places clinicians in the uneasy situation of breaching the client's confidentiality or of placing others in potential danger of the client. In either case, the therapist's decision may make place himself at risk, professionally and legally, especially since the clinician has no certain method for determining a client's potential for violent behavior. The application of the principle may be difficult in particular situations; however, if the clinician has reasonable cause to think that danger is imminent, the clinician is required to break confidentiality for the safety of others.\n\nIn \"Jane Doe No. 14 v. Internet Brands, Inc.\", the Jane Doe plaintiff alleged that Internet Brands, Inc.'s failure to warn users of its networking website, modelmayhem.com, caused her to be a victim of a rape scheme. She alleged that Defendant Internet Brands knew about the rapists but did not warn her or the website's other users. She filed an action against Internet Brands alleging liability for negligence under California law based on that failure to warn. On May 31, 2016, the US Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled that the Communications Decency Act does not bar Jane Doe's failure to warn claim.\n\nIn the early morning hours of August 24, 1986, a woman who lived in a second-floor apartment in Toronto was raped at knifepoint by Paul Callow, who had broken into her apartment from a balcony. At the time, the plaintiff was the fifth victim of similar crimes by Callow, who would become known as the \"balcony rapist\". In 1998, this woman was successful in her lawsuit against the Metropolitan Toronto Police Force for damages on the grounds that the police force had conducted a negligent investigation and failed to warn women of the risk of an attack by Callow.\n\nIn December 2012, a woman, who later became a Jane Doe plaintiff, was attacked by Sofyan Boalag, an Algerian immigrant, in St. John's, Newfoundland. This assault was the last of six assaults between September and December 2012. Boalag was charged with 23 criminal offences in relation to complaints from multiple victims. In 2016, he was convicted of multiple offences including robbery, three counts of sexual assault with a weapon, and choking Doe until she passed out. \nIn January 2016, Doe commenced a lawsuit against the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary, alleging police failed to properly warn the public that a predator was stalking young women. According to the statement of claim, all of the attacks took place in a similar part of the city and involved people with similar characteristics — six young women, including one girl under 16 years of age.\n\nIn 1986, 19-year-old Jeanne Clery was raped and murdered in her Lehigh University dorm room. Her parents noted:\nBecause her parents' efforts, the Clery Act was enacted which requires colleges and universities in the United States to publish campus crime reports.\n\nIn 2008, Eastern Michigan University was fined $357,500 for violating the Clery Act. US federal officials cited the university for \"an egregious violation\" for failing to notify the public of the murder of Laura Dickinson in her residence hall room.\n\nThe South African Police Service and community groups publish the locations which are prone to \"smash and grab\" crimes. At these \"hot spots\", criminals smash through car windows to grab valuables while vehicles are stationary at traffic lights or stuck in slow moving traffic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1344439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1344439", "title": "Green building", "text": "Green building\n\nGreen building (also known as green construction or sustainable building) refers to both a structure and the application of processes that are environmentally responsible and resource-efficient throughout a building's life-cycle: from planning to design, construction, operation, maintenance, renovation, and demolition. This requires close cooperation of the contractor, the architects, the engineers, and the client at all project stages. The Green Building practice expands and complements the classical building design concerns of economy, utility, durability, and comfort.\n\nLeadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a set of rating systems for the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of green buildings which was Developed by the U.S. Green Building Council. Other certificates system that confirms the sustainability of buildings is the British BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) for buildings and large-scale developments. Currently, World Green Building Council is conducting research on the effects of green buildings on the health and productivity of their users and is working with World Bank to promote Green Buildings in Emerging Markets through EDGE (Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies) Market Transformation Program and certification. There are also other tools such as Green Star in Australia and the Green Building Index (GBI) predominantly used in Malaysia.\n\nAlthough new technologies are constantly being developed to complement current practices in creating greener structures, the common objective of green buildings is to reduce the overall impact of the built environment on human health and the natural environment by:\n\nA similar concept is natural building, which is usually on a smaller scale and tends to focus on the use of natural materials that are available locally. Other related topics include sustainable design and green architecture. Sustainability may be defined as meeting the needs of present generations without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Although some green building programs don't address the issue of the retrofitting existing homes, others do, especially through public schemes for energy efficient refurbishment. Green construction principles can easily be applied to retrofit work as well as new construction.\n\nA 2009 report by the U.S. General Services Administration found 12 sustainably-designed buildings that cost less to operate and have excellent energy performance. In addition, occupants were overall more satisfied with the building than those in typical commercial buildings. These are eco-friendly buildings.\n\nGlobally, buildings are responsible for a huge share of energy, electricity, water and materials consumption. The building sector has the greatest potential to deliver significant cuts in emissions at little or no cost. Buildings account for 18% of global emissions today, or the equivalent of 9 billion tonnes of CO2 annually. If new technologies in construction are not adopted during this time of rapid growth, emissions could double by 2050, according to the United Nations Environment Program. Green building practices aim to reduce the environmental impact of building. Since construction almost always degrades a building site, not building at all is preferable to green building, in terms of reducing environmental impact. The second rule is that every building should be as small as possible. The third rule is not to contribute to sprawl, even if the most energy-efficient, environmentally sound methods are used in design and construction.\n\nBuildings account for a large amount of land. According to the National Resources Inventory, approximately of land in the United States are developed. The International Energy Agency released a publication that estimated that existing buildings are responsible for more than 40% of the world’s total primary energy consumption and for 24% of global carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nThe concept of sustainable development can be traced to the energy (especially fossil oil) crisis and environmental pollution concerns of the 1960s and 1970s. The Rachel Carson book, “Silent Spring”, published in 1962, is considered to be one of the first initial efforts to describe sustainable development as related to green building. The green building movement in the U.S. originated from the need and desire for more energy efficient and environmentally friendly construction practices. There are a number of motives for building green, including environmental, economic, and social benefits. However, modern sustainability initiatives call for an integrated and synergistic design to both new construction and in the retrofitting of existing structures. Also known as sustainable design, this approach integrates the building life-cycle with each green practice employed with a design-purpose to create a synergy among the practices used.\n\nGreen building brings together a vast array of practices, techniques, and skills to reduce and ultimately eliminate the impacts of buildings on the environment and human health. It often emphasizes taking advantage of renewable resources, e.g., using sunlight through passive solar, active solar, and photovoltaic equipment, and using plants and trees through green roofs, rain gardens, and reduction of rainwater run-off. Many other techniques are used, such as using low-impact building materials or using packed gravel or permeable concrete instead of conventional concrete or asphalt to enhance replenishment of ground water.\n\nWhile the practices or technologies employed in green building are constantly evolving and may differ from region to region, fundamental principles persist from which the method is derived: siting and structure design efficiency, energy efficiency, water efficiency, materials efficiency, indoor environmental quality enhancement, operations and maintenance optimization and waste and toxics reduction. The essence of green building is an optimization of one or more of these principles. Also, with the proper synergistic design, individual green building technologies may work together to produce a greater cumulative effect.\n\nOn the aesthetic side of green architecture or sustainable design is the philosophy of designing a building that is in harmony with the natural features and resources surrounding the site. There are several key steps in designing sustainable buildings: specify 'green' building materials from local sources, reduce loads, optimize systems, and generate on-site renewable energy.\n\nA life cycle assessment (LCA) can help avoid a narrow outlook on environmental, social and economic concerns by assessing a full range of impacts associated with all cradle-to-grave stages of a process: from extraction of raw materials through materials processing, manufacture, distribution, use, repair and maintenance, and disposal or recycling. Impacts taken into account include (among others) embodied energy, global warming potential, resource use, air pollution, water pollution, and waste.\n\nIn terms of green building, the last few years have seen a shift away from a \"prescriptive\" approach, which assumes that certain prescribed practices are better for the environment, toward the scientific evaluation of actual performance through LCA.\n\nAlthough LCA is widely recognized as the best way to evaluate the environmental impacts of buildings (ISO 14040 provides a recognized LCA methodology), it is not yet a consistent requirement of green building rating systems and codes, despite the fact that embodied energy and other life cycle impacts are critical to the design of environmentally responsible buildings.\n\nIn North America, LCA is rewarded to some extent in the Green Globes® rating system, and is part of the new American National Standard based on Green Globes, \"ANSI/GBI 01-2010: Green Building Protocol for Commercial Buildings\". LCA is also included as a pilot credit in the LEED system, though a decision has not been made as to whether it will be incorporated fully into the next major revision. The state of California also included LCA as a voluntary measure in its 2010 draft \"Green Building Standards Code\".\n\nAlthough LCA is often perceived as overly complex and time consuming for regular use by design professionals, research organizations such as BRE in the UK and the Athena Sustainable Materials Institute in North America are working to make it more accessible.\n\nIn the UK, the BRE \"Green Guide to Specifications\" offers ratings for 1,500 building materials based on LCA.\n\nIn North America, the ATHENA® \"EcoCalculator for Assemblies\" provides LCA results for several hundred common building assembles based on data generated by its more complex parent software, the ATHENA® \"Impact Estimator for Buildings\". (The EcoCalculator is available free at www.athenasmi.org.) Athena software tools are especially useful early in the design process when material choices have far-reaching implications for overall environmental impact. They allow designers to experiment with different material mixes to achieve the most effective combination.\n\nThe foundation of any construction project is rooted in the concept and design stages. The concept stage, in fact, is one of the major steps in a project life cycle, as it has the largest impact on cost and performance. In designing environmentally optimal buildings, the objective is to minimize the total environmental impact associated with all life-cycle stages of the building project. However, building as a process is not as streamlined as an industrial process, and varies from one building to the other, never repeating itself identically. In addition, buildings are much more complex products, composed of a multitude of materials and components each constituting various design variables to be decided at the design stage. A variation of every design variable may affect the environment during all the building's relevant life-cycle stages.\n\nGreen buildings often include measures to reduce energy consumption – both the embodied energy required to extract, process, transport and install building materials and operating energy to provide services such as heating and power for equipment.\n\nAs high-performance buildings use less operating energy, embodied energy has assumed much greater importance – and may make up as much as 30% of the overall life cycle energy consumption. Studies such as the U.S. LCI Database Project show buildings built primarily with wood will have a lower embodied energy than those built primarily with brick, concrete, or steel.\n\nTo reduce operating energy use, designers use details that reduce air leakage through the building envelope (the barrier between conditioned and unconditioned space). They also specify high-performance windows and extra insulation in walls, ceilings, and floors. Another strategy, passive solar building design, is often implemented in low-energy homes. Designers orient windows and walls and place awnings, porches, and trees to shade windows and roofs during the summer while maximizing solar gain in the winter. In addition, effective window placement (daylighting) can provide more natural light and lessen the need for electric lighting during the day. Solar water heating further reduces energy costs.\n\nOnsite generation of renewable energy through solar power, wind power, hydro power, or biomass can significantly reduce the environmental impact of the building. Power generation is generally the most expensive feature to add to a building.\n\nReducing water consumption and protecting water quality are key objectives in sustainable building. One critical issue of water consumption is that in many areas, the demands on the supplying aquifer exceed its ability to replenish itself. To the maximum extent feasible, facilities should increase their dependence on water that is collected, used, purified, and reused on-site. The protection and conservation of water throughout the life of a building may be accomplished by designing for dual plumbing that recycles water in toilet flushing or by using water for washing of the cars. Waste-water may be minimized by utilizing water conserving fixtures such as ultra-low flush toilets and low-flow shower heads. Bidets help eliminate the use of toilet paper, reducing sewer traffic and increasing possibilities of re-using water on-site. Point of use water treatment and heating improves both water quality and energy efficiency while reducing the amount of water in circulation. The use of non-sewage and greywater for on-site use such as site-irrigation will minimize demands on the local aquifer.\n\nLarge commercial buildings with water and energy efficiency can qualify for an LEED Certification. Philadelphia's Comcast Center is the tallest building in Philadelphia. It's also one of the tallest buildings in the USA that is LEED Certified. Their environmental engineering consists of a hybrid central chilled water system which cools floor-by-floor with steam instead of water. Burn's Mechanical set-up the entire renovation of the 58 story, 1.4 million square foot sky scraper.\n\nBuilding materials typically considered to be 'green' include lumber from forests that have been certified to a third-party forest standard, rapidly renewable plant materials like bamboo and straw, dimension stone, recycled stone, recycled metal \"(see: copper sustainability and recyclability)\", and other products that are non-toxic, reusable, renewable, and/or recyclable. For concrete a high performance or Roman self-healing concrete is available. The EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) also suggests using recycled industrial goods, such as coal combustion products, foundry sand, and demolition debris in construction projects. Energy efficient building materials and appliances are promoted in the United States through energy rebate programs.\n\nThe Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ) category in LEED standards, one of the five environmental categories, was created to provide comfort, well-being, and productivity of occupants. The LEED IEQ category addresses design and construction guidelines especially: indoor air quality (IAQ), thermal quality, and lighting quality.\n\nIndoor Air Quality seeks to reduce volatile organic compounds, or VOCs, and other air impurities such as microbial contaminants. Buildings rely on a properly designed ventilation system (passively/naturally or mechanically powered) to provide adequate ventilation of cleaner air from outdoors or recirculated, filtered air as well as isolated operations (kitchens, dry cleaners, etc.) from other occupancies. During the design and construction process choosing construction materials and interior finish products with zero or low VOC emissions will improve IAQ. Most building materials and cleaning/maintenance products emit gases, some of them toxic, such as many VOCs including formaldehyde. These gases can have a detrimental impact on occupants' health, comfort, and productivity. Avoiding these products will increase a building's IEQ. LEED, HQE and Green Star contain specifications on use of low-emitting interior. Draft LEED 2012 is about to expand the scope of the involved products. BREEAM limits formaldehyde emissions, no other VOCs. MAS Certified Green is a registered trademark to delineate low VOC-emitting products in the marketplace. The MAS Certified Green Program ensures that any potentially hazardous chemicals released from manufactured products have been thoroughly tested and meet rigorous standards established by independent toxicologists to address recognized long term health concerns. These IAQ standards have been adopted by and incorporated into the following programs: (1) The United States Green Building Council (USGBC) in their LEED rating system (2) The California Department of Public Health (CDPH) in their section 01350 standards (3) The Collaborative for High Performance Schools (CHPS) in their Best Practices Manual and (4) The Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) in their level® sustainability standard.\n\nAlso important to indoor air quality is the control of moisture accumulation (dampness) leading to mold growth and the presence of bacteria and viruses as well as dust mites and other organisms and microbiological concerns. Water intrusion through a building's envelope or water condensing on cold surfaces on the building's interior can enhance and sustain microbial growth. A well-insulated and tightly sealed envelope will reduce moisture problems but adequate ventilation is also necessary to eliminate moisture from sources indoors including human metabolic processes, cooking, bathing, cleaning, and other activities.\n\nPersonal temperature and airflow control over the HVAC system coupled with a properly designed building envelope will also aid in increasing a building's thermal quality. Creating a high performance luminous environment through the careful integration of daylight and electrical light sources will improve on the lighting quality and energy performance of a structure.\n\nSolid wood products, particularly flooring, are often specified in environments where occupants are known to have allergies to dust or other particulates. Wood itself is considered to be hypo-allergenic and its smooth surfaces prevent the buildup of particles common in soft finishes like carpet. The Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America recommends hardwood, vinyl, linoleum tile or slate flooring instead of carpet. The use of wood products can also improve air quality by absorbing or releasing moisture in the air to moderate humidity.\n\nInteractions among all the indoor components and the occupants together form the processes that determine the indoor air quality. Extensive investigation of such processes is the subject of indoor air scientific research and is well documented in the journal Indoor Air.\n\nNo matter how sustainable a building may have been in its design and construction, it can only remain so if it is operated responsibly and maintained properly. Ensuring operations and maintenance(O&M) personnel are part of the project's planning and development process will help retain the green criteria designed at the onset of the project. Every aspect of green building is integrated into the O&M phase of a building's life. The addition of new green technologies also falls on the O&M staff. Although the goal of waste reduction may be applied during the design, construction and demolition phases of a building's life-cycle, it is in the O&M phase that green practices such as recycling and air quality enhancement take place. O&M staff should aim to establish best practices in energy efficiency, resource conservation, ecologically sensitive products and other sustainable practices. Education of building operators and occupants is key to effective implementation of sustainable strategies in O&M services.\n\nGreen architecture also seeks to reduce waste of energy, water and materials used during construction. For example, in California nearly 60% of the state's waste comes from commercial buildings During the construction phase, one goal should be to reduce the amount of material going to landfills. Well-designed buildings also help reduce the amount of waste generated by the occupants as well, by providing on-site solutions such as compost bins to reduce matter going to landfills.\n\nTo reduce the amount of wood that goes to landfill, Neutral Alliance (a coalition of government, NGOs and the forest industry) created the website dontwastewood.com. The site includes a variety of resources for regulators, municipalities, developers, contractors, owner/operators and individuals/homeowners looking for information on wood recycling.\n\nWhen buildings reach the end of their useful life, they are typically demolished and hauled to landfills. Deconstruction is a method of harvesting what is commonly considered \"waste\" and reclaiming it into useful building material. Extending the useful life of a structure also reduces waste – building materials such as wood that are light and easy to work with make renovations easier.\n\nTo reduce the impact on wells or water treatment plants, several options exist. \"Greywater\", wastewater from sources such as dishwashing or washing machines, can be used for subsurface irrigation, or if treated, for non-potable purposes, e.g., to flush toilets and wash cars. Rainwater collectors are used for similar purposes.\n\nCentralized wastewater treatment systems can be costly and use a lot of energy. An alternative to this process is converting waste and wastewater into fertilizer, which avoids these costs and shows other benefits. By collecting human waste at the source and running it to a semi-centralized biogas plant with other biological waste, liquid fertilizer can be produced. This concept was demonstrated by a settlement in Lubeck Germany in the late 1990s. Practices like these provide soil with organic nutrients and create carbon sinks that remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, offsetting greenhouse gas emission. Producing artificial fertilizer is also more costly in energy than this process.\n\nElectricity networks are built based on peak demand (another name is peak load). Peak demand is measured in the units of watts (W). It shows how fast electrical energy is consumed. Residential electricity is often charged on electrical energy (kilowatt hour, kWh). Green buildings or sustainable buildings are often capable of saving electrical energy but not necessarily reducing peak demand.\n\nWhen sustainable building features are designed, constructed and operated efficiently, peak demand can be reduced so that there is less desire for electricity network expansion and there is less impact onto carbon emission and climate change. These sustainable features can be good orientation, sufficient indoor thermal mass, good insulation, photovoltaic panels, thermal or electrical energy storage systems, smart building (home) energy management systems.\n\nThe most criticized issue about constructing environmentally friendly buildings is the price. Photo-voltaics, new appliances, and modern technologies tend to cost more money. Most green buildings cost a premium of <2%, but yield 10 times as much over the entire life of the building. In regards to the financial benefits of green building, “Over 20 years, the financial payback typically exceeds the additional cost of greening by a factor of 4-6 times. And broader benefits, such as reductions in greenhouse gases (GHGs) and other pollutants have large positive impacts on surrounding communities and on the planet.” The stigma is between the knowledge of up-front cost vs. life-cycle cost. The savings in money come from more efficient use of utilities which result in decreased energy bills. It is projected that different sectors could save $130 billion on energy bills.\nAlso, higher worker or student productivity can be factored into savings and cost deductions.\n\nNumerous studies have shown the measurable benefit of green building initiatives on worker productivity. In general it has been found that, \"there is a direct correlation between increased productivity and employees who love being in their work space.” Specifically, worker productivity can be significantly impacted by certain aspects of green building design such as improved lighting, reduction of pollutants, advanced ventilation systems and the use of non-toxic building materials. In “The Business Case for Green Building”, the U.S. Green Building Council gives another specific example of how commercial energy retrofits increase worker health and thus productivity, “People in the U.S. spend about 90% of their time indoors. EPA studies indicate indoor levels of pollutants may be up to ten times higher than outdoor levels. LEED-certified buildings are designed to have healthier, cleaner indoor environmental quality, which means health benefits for occupants.\"\n\nStudies have shown over a 20-year life period, some green buildings have yielded $53 to $71 per square foot back on investment. Confirming the rentability of green building investments, further studies of the commercial real estate market have found that LEED and Energy Star certified buildings achieve significantly higher rents, sale prices and occupancy rates as well as lower capitalization rates potentially reflecting lower investment risk.\n\nAs a result of the increased interest in green building concepts and practices, a number of organizations have developed standards, codes and rating systems that let government regulators, building professionals and consumers embrace green building with confidence. In some cases, codes are written so local governments can adopt them as bylaws to reduce the local environmental impact of buildings.\n\nGreen building rating systems such as BREEAM (United Kingdom), LEED (United States and Canada), DGNB (Germany), CASBEE (Japan), and VERDE (Spain) help consumers determine a structure’s level of environmental performance. They award credits for optional building features that support green design in categories such as location and maintenance of building site, conservation of water, energy, and building materials, and occupant comfort and health. The number of credits generally determines the level of achievement.\n\nGreen building codes and standards, such as the International Code Council’s draft International Green Construction Code, are sets of rules created by standards development organizations that establish minimum requirements for elements of green building such as materials or heating and cooling.\n\nSome of the major building environmental assessment tools currently in use include:\n\nIPCC Fourth Assessment Report\n\nClimate Change 2007, the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), is the fourth in a series of such reports. The IPCC was established by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to assess scientific, technical and socio-economic information concerning climate change, its potential effects and options for adaptation and mitigation.\n\nUNEP and Climate change\n\nUnited Nations Environment Program UNEP works to facilitate the transition to low-carbon societies, support climate proofing efforts, improve understanding of climate change science, and raise public awareness about this global challenge.\n\nGHG Indicator\n\nThe Greenhouse Gas Indicator: UNEP Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Businesses and Non-Commercial Organizations\n\nAgenda 21\n\nAgenda 21 is a programme run by the United Nations (UN) related to sustainable development. It is a comprehensive blueprint of action to be taken globally, nationally and locally by organizations of the UN, governments, and major groups in every area in which humans impact on the environment. The number 21 refers to the 21st century.\n\nFIDIC's PSM\n\nThe International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) Project Sustainability Management Guidelines were created in order to assist project engineers and other stakeholders in setting sustainable development goals for their projects that are recognized and accepted by as being in the interests of society as a whole. The process is also intended to allow the alignment of project goals with local conditions and priorities and to assist those involved in managing projects to measure and verify their progress.\n\nThe Project Sustainability Management Guidelines are structured with Themes and Sub-Themes under the three main sustainability headings of Social, Environmental and Economic. For each individual Sub-Theme a core project indicator is defined along with guidance as to the relevance of that issue in the context of an individual\nproject.\n\nThe Sustainability Reporting Framework provides guidance for organizations to use as the basis for disclosure about their sustainability performance, and also provides stakeholders a universally applicable, comparable framework in which to understand disclosed information.\n\nThe Reporting Framework contains the core product of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, as well as Protocols and Sector Supplements.\nThe Guidelines are used as the basis for all reporting. They are the foundation upon which all other reporting guidance is based, and outline core content for reporting that is broadly relevant to all organizations regardless of size, sector, or location. The Guidelines contain principles and guidance as well as standard disclosures – including indicators – to outline a disclosure framework that organizations can voluntarily, flexibly, and incrementally, adopt.\n\nProtocols underpin each indicator in the Guidelines and include definitions for key terms in the indicator, compilation methodologies, intended scope of the indicator, and other technical references.\n\nSector Supplements respond to the limits of a one-size-fits-all approach. Sector Supplements complement the use of the core Guidelines by capturing the unique set of sustainability issues faced by different sectors such as mining, automotive, banking, public agencies and others.\n\nIPD Environment Code\n\nThe IPD Environment Code was launched in February 2008. The Code is intended as a good practice global standard for measuring the environmental performance of corporate buildings. Its aim is to accurately measure and manage the environmental impacts of corporate buildings and enable property executives to generate high quality, comparable performance information about their\nbuildings anywhere in the world. The Code covers a wide range of building types (from offices to airports) and aims to inform and support\nthe following;\n\nIPD estimate that it will take approximately three years to gather significant data to develop a robust set of baseline data that could be used across a typical corporate estate.\n\nISO 21931 \n\nISO/TS 21931:2006, Sustainability in building construction—Framework for methods of assessment for environmental performance of construction works—Part 1: Buildings, is intended to provide a general framework for improving the quality and comparability of methods for assessing the environmental performance of buildings. It identifies and describes issues to be taken into account when using methods for the assessment of environmental performance for new or existing building properties in the design, construction, operation, refurbishment and deconstruction stages. It is not an assessment system in itself but is intended be used in conjunction with, and following the principles set out in, the ISO 14000 series of standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20277284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20277284", "title": "Indian Education and Self-Assistance Act (Snyder Act)", "text": "Indian Education and Self-Assistance Act (Snyder Act)\n\nIn United States federal legislation, the Indian Education and Self-Assistance Act (Snyder Act) was passed in 1917 and sponsored by Rep. Homer P. Snyder (R) of New York. \n\nIt empowered the Bureau of Indian Affairs, under the Secretary of the Interior, to appropriate money for the general improvement of the quality of life among Native Americans on reservations including adult literacy programs and health care facilities. Although a step in the right direction, the appropriations provided for the next several decades still proved inadequate to what was needed.\n"}
{"id": "25793726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793726", "title": "Joe Driver", "text": "Joe Driver\n\nJoe Driver (born September 29, 1946 in Rockwall, Texas) is a Republican politician from the U.S. state of Texas. From 1993 to 2013, he represented the 113th district in the Texas House of Representatives, a seat that he initially won in the 1992 elections.\n\nHe served on the House committees on (1) Appropriations and (2) Public Safety. He was a leading conservative in the legislature who sponsored bills to allow concealed carry on college campuses and generally favored lowering taxes over government expenditures.\n\nOn August 16, 2010, Driver admitted to billing the Texas House for certain expenses for which he had already been reimbursed by his own campaign fund. On December 19, 2011 Driver pleaded guilty to a third-degree felony of abuse in his official capacity as a state lawmaker as a consequence of the double-billing. He was fined $5,000 and given five years' probation. The maximum penalty for the crime is ten years in prison plus a $10,000 fine. Driver's plea bargain allowed him to keep his voting rights in the legislature, avoid being a convicted felon, and to collect his state retirement of $57,000 a year when he retired as a legislator in 2013.\n\nHe did not seek re-nomination in 2012, and the seat was handily won by the outgoing District 101 representative, Republican Cindy Burkett of Mesquite.\n\n"}
{"id": "6016271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6016271", "title": "Jus exclusivae", "text": "Jus exclusivae\n\nJus exclusivae (Latin for \"right of exclusion\"; sometimes called the papal veto) was the right claimed by several Catholic monarchs of Europe to veto a candidate for the papacy. The French monarch, the Spanish monarch, the Holy Roman Emperor, and the Emperor of Austria claimed this right at various times, making known to a papal conclave, through a crown-cardinal, that the monarch deemed a particular candidate for the papacy objectionable.\n\nThe right exercised by Byzantine emperors and Holy Roman Emperors to confirm the election of a Pope, which was last exercised in the Early Middle Ages, appears unrelated to the legal claim of \"jus exclusivae\", during the 17th century, when treatises in defence of this right first appear. Spain, which ruled much of Italy at the time, raised the claim in 1605 and again in 1644 at the conclave that elected Cardinal Giovanni Battista Pamphili (who became Pope Innocent X) to exclude Cardinal Sacchetti.\n\n\nAt the 1846 conclave, Austrian Chancellor Klemens von Metternich confided Austria's veto of Cardinal Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti to Cardinal Carlo Gaetano Gaisruck, Archbishop of Milan, who arrived too late.\n\nThe right has never been formally recognized by the papacy, though conclaves have considered it expedient to recognize secular objections to certain \"papabili\", that is, candidates for the papacy, and to accept secular interference as an unavoidable abuse. By the papal bull \"In eligendis\" of 9 October 1562 Pope Pius IV ordered the cardinals to elect a pope without deference to any secular power. The bull \"Aeterni Patris Filius\" (of 15 November 1621) forbids cardinals to conspire to exclude any candidate. These pronouncements however, did not specifically condemn the \"jus exclusivae\". In the apostolic constitution \"In hac sublimi\" of 23 August 1871 Pope Pius IX forbad any kind of secular interference in papal elections.\n\nThe most recent attempt to exercise the right to exclude Cardinal Rampolla in 1903 was rejected by the conclave, although over the course of several ballots Rampolla, who had been the leading candidate, lost support until the conclave elected Cardinal Sarto, Pius X. The following year, Pius X forbad the \"jus exclusivae\" in the apostolic constitution \"Commissum Nobis\" of 20 January 1904:\n\nSince then the cardinals in conclave have been enjoined to take this oath: \"We shall never in any way accept, under any pretext, from any civil power whatever, the office of proposing a veto of exclusion even under the form of a mere desire… and we shall never lend favour to any intervention, or intercession, or any other method whatever, by which the lay powers of any grade or order may wish to interfere in the election of a pontiff.\"\n\nNo power has openly attempted to exercise the right since 1903. France had become a republic in 1870. After World War I, there was no German Empire and no Austrian Empire. Spain became a republic and eventually became a constitutional monarchy. During the 1963 conclave, Generalissimo Francisco Franco made an unsuccessful attempt to block the election of Cardinal Giovanni Montini. He sent the College of Cardinals some \"advice\" through Cardinal Arcadio Larraona, a native of Spain who was then the Prefect of the Congregation of Rites. It was carefully drafted to fall outside the forms of influence that Pius X had prohibited, but the cardinals nevertheless thought it outrageous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11950636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11950636", "title": "Last antecedent rule", "text": "Last antecedent rule\n\nThe last antecedent rule is a doctrine of interpretation of a statute, by which \"Referential and qualifying phrases, where no contrary intention appears, refer solely to the last antecedent.\" The rule is typically bound by \"common sense\" and is flexible enough to avoid application that \"would involve an absurdity, do violence to the plain intent of the language, or if the context for other reason requires a deviation from the rule.\".\n\nA more formulaic approach to the rule requires, \"Evidence that a qualifying phrase is supposed to apply to all antecedents instead of only to the immediately preceding one may be found in the fact that it is separated from the antecedents by a comma.\" Kenneth A. Adams, author of \"A Manual of Style for Contract Drafting\", has criticized this canon of construction as being applied inconsistently and contrary to the guidance of many manuals of style:\n\nManuals of style recognize that the comma is used to indicate a slight break in a sentence. But according to the Rule of the Last Antecedent, adding a comma after a series of antecedents not only doesn't sever the modifier from the last noun or phrase in the series, it in fact operates remotely on all the antecedents, binding them to the modifier. Nothing in the general literature on punctuation suggests such a mechanism.\n\nThe last antecedent rule is also applied to contract interpretation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6245226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6245226", "title": "Legal purge in Norway after World War II", "text": "Legal purge in Norway after World War II\n\nThe legal purge in Norway after World War II took place between May 1945 and August 1948 against anyone who was deemed to have collaborated with the German occupation of the country. Several thousand Norwegians and foreign citizens were tried and convicted for crimes committed in Scandinavia during the Second World War. However the scope, legal basis, and fairness of these trials has since been a matter of some debate. A total of 40 people—including Vidkun Quisling, the Minister President of Norway during the occupation—were executed after capital punishment was reinstated in Norway. A further five were sentenced to death in Poland in 1947 for their actions in Norway.\n\nThe German invasion of Norway during World War II created a number of constitutional issues, chiefly related to what was the legitimate Norwegian government, and whether the constitution and Norwegian code of law remained in effect during the occupation. Although the occupying power, under Reichskommissar Josef Terboven and the puppet Norwegian regime under Vidkun Quisling claimed that the Norwegian government had abandoned its authority in the spring of 1940, the Norwegian government claimed that it had merely capitulated in the military struggle for the homeland, while the executive branch had been given special powers by the Norwegian parliament through the Elverum Authorization. The Norwegian government's claim was upheld both by parliament and the Norwegian Supreme Court after the war, which in turn led to an extensive set of indictments and convictions against Norwegian citizens for treason, and German citizens for war crimes.\n\nAs early as 1941 and 1942, the Norwegian government in exile put into effect a number of decrees regarding treasonous acts. Capital punishment was reinstated as an option, prison sentences with hard labor were approved, higher upper limits for financial penalties introduced, and a controversial, new measure known as \"loss of public confidence” (tap av almenn tillit) adopted, which would effectively deprive those convicted of various civil privileges. These decrees reached a final, workable form on 15 December 1944, the so-called Landssvikanordning. Crimes defined in these decrees notably included membership of Nasjonal Samling, the Norwegian fascist party that collaborated with the Nazis.\n\nIn autumn 1940 the Nazi-supporting Norwegian fascist party, Nasjonal Samling, was made the only legal political organization in Norway. Its claim to be the government was based on the premise that the pre-war leadership had abdicated its responsibilities by leaving Norway. As Nasjonal Samling had taken the responsible course by assuming the mantle of power, it was therefore the legal administration. However it never achieved any level of support justifying its claim to be the legitimate Norwegian government.\n\nThis was the view taken in London by Norway's government-in-exile. It saw the Nazi Party and its Third Reich to be the \"enemy of war\". Anything that aided or encouraged the German occupation of Norway was to be considered in principle an act of treason, this included membership of Nasjonal Samling. Norway's exiled government also considered it to be a criminal act to assist the Nazi regime through economic support and commercial activities.\n\nNorwegians who had volunteered for military service with the Wehrmacht, and especially Germanic-SS were subject to criminal prosecution after the war. Police officers who worked with the RSHA in the Sikkerhetspolitiet (Norwegian Secret State Police) or joined the Gestapo faced charges relating to war crimes, torture, executions, and the mistreatment of prisoners.\n\nIn May 1945, at the close of World War II, the paramilitary Milorg (Norway's official resistance movement in the war) joined units of the Norwegian police that had been trained in Sweden. Both had been well briefed and prepared ahead of the official liberation on 8 May 1945. The Norwegian government-in-exile assembled this force because it viewed it as paramount to avoid lynching or other extrajudicial punishment against former members of the Nazi regime. Nevertheless, during the summer of 1945, there was a fierce debate reported in Norwegian newspapers about the prosecution and punishment of war criminals and traitors. Many spoke openly of retaliation, but others argued that death penalty was a \"drawback for a civilized community\". As tensions hardened, those fighting against the death penalty for humanitarian reasons were stigmatized as \"the silk front\". Those who favored harsh penalties were known as \"the ice front\". The editorial pages of Norwegian newspapers (\"Dagbladet\" being one of the most prominent) demanded harsh penalties reminiscent of a witch-hunt.\n\nWithin just a few days of the war ending, up to 28,750 people were arrested for questioning. Although many were released quickly, between 5,000 and 6,000 individuals were still detained in custody in August 1946.\n\nFormer wartime resistance leader Sven Arntzen was made acting chief barrister of the Norwegian Prosecuting Authority. He was given the responsibility for bringing the cases to trial. Arntzen played a highly public role in establishing the principles that should drive the trials. This led to considerable public and internal debate about the nature of the legal purges.\n\nAltogether prosecutors called for the death penalty in 200 cases of treason; of these only 30 were passed down, with 25 being carried out. From the beginning the application of capital punishment was controversial in Norway, in part because the country's first government instituted the death penalty before the Norwegian parliament had reconvened after the war.\n\nA great deal of sensitivity continues to surround this subject in Norwegian society. In later years, studies and inquiries have shown that justice was administered unevenly and—by today's standards—harshly.\n\nFor example, the volunteers who joined the Waffen-SS and served on the Eastern Front were only tried for treason, never for war crimes. People who sided with \"Nasjonal Samling\" were often publicly shamed and ostracised well beyond the punishment their crimes merited, such as fines or a prison sentence.\nThe prosecution of individuals who served with the German Red Cross has also been questioned. Among those to be convicted was Hanna Kvanmo, who later rose to fame as a socialist politician.\n\n† Erich Hoffmann was brought to in Germany and hanged by British executioner, Albert Pierrepoint. He was executed by hanging because he was sentenced to death by an Allied war tribunal and not in a Norwegian court.\n\n"}
{"id": "4095064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095064", "title": "List of largest United Kingdom-based law firms", "text": "List of largest United Kingdom-based law firms\n\nThe following is a list of the 100 largest United Kingdom-based law firms measured by worldwide revenues, as well as their PEP, lawyer numbers and profit margins. The list only includes law firms which are headquartered, co-headquartered or maintain a large network of offices in the United Kingdom. The list does not include the QualitySolicitors network of British law firms, which has system-wide revenues of around £300 million.\n\nThe table is up to date as of September 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "47016452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47016452", "title": "List of law schools attended by Australian High Court Justices", "text": "List of law schools attended by Australian High Court Justices\n\nThere have been 48 men and five women who have been appointed as Justices of the High Court of Australia. Together, the judges are alumni of five Australian universities, two universities in the United Kingdom, three in the United States of America and one Barristers' Admission Board.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2525586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525586", "title": "List of law schools in New Zealand", "text": "List of law schools in New Zealand\n\nThis is a list of law schools in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "54353107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54353107", "title": "List of murdered musicians", "text": "List of murdered musicians\n\nMany musicians have been killed during their active career. Some of them have received extensive media attention, including the murder of John Lennon in 1980 and the murder of rappers Tupac and Biggie Smalls less than one year apart. Others have received less media attention, including the murder of Bryan Harvey, who was killed during the 2006 Richmond spree murders.\n\nChristina Grimmie's shooting murder became more publicized because the Pulse nightclub shooting occurred the following night and also took place in Orlando, Florida.\nBelow is a list of notable murders of musicians.\n"}
{"id": "72245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72245", "title": "Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury", "text": "Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury\n\nMargaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury (14 August 1473 – 27 May 1541), was an English peeress. She was the daughter of George, Duke of Clarence, the brother of kings Edward IV and Richard III. Margaret was one of two women in 16th century England to be a peeress in her own right with no titled husband. One of the few surviving members of the Plantagenet dynasty after the Wars of the Roses, she was executed in 1541 at the command of Henry VIII, who was the son of her first cousin Elizabeth of York. Pope Leo XIII beatified her as a martyr for the Catholic Church on 29 December 1886.\n\nMargaret was born at Farleigh Hungerford Castle in Somerset, the only surviving daughter of George Plantagenet, 1st Duke of Clarence, and his wife Isabel Neville, who was the elder daughter of Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick, and his wife Anne de Beauchamp, Countess of Warwick. Her maternal grandfather was killed fighting against her uncle, Edward IV of England, at the Battle of Barnet. Her father, already Duke of Clarence, was then created Earl of Salisbury and of Warwick. Edward IV declared that Margaret's younger brother Edward should be known as Earl of Warwick as a courtesy title, but no peerage was ever created for him. Margaret would have had a claim to the Earldom of Warwick, but the earldom was forfeited on the attainder of her brother Edward.\n\nMargaret's mother and youngest brother died when she was three, and her father had two servants killed who he thought had poisoned them. George plotted against his brother, Edward IV, and was attainted and executed for treason; his lands and titles were forfeited. Edward IV died when Margaret was ten, and her uncle Richard, Duke of Gloucester, declared that Edward's marriage was invalid, his children illegitimate, and that Margaret and her brother Edward were debarred from the throne by their father's attainder. Married to Anne Neville, younger sister to Margaret's mother Isabel, Richard assumed the throne himself as Richard III.\n\nRichard III sent the children to Sheriff Hutton Castle in Yorkshire. He was defeated and killed in 1485 at the Battle of Bosworth by Henry Tudor, who succeeded him as Henry VII. The new king married Margaret's cousin Elizabeth of York, Edward IV's daughter, and Margaret and her brother were taken into their care. Soon young Edward, technically a potential York claimant to the throne, was moved to the Tower of London. Edward was briefly displayed in public at St Paul's Cathedral in 1487 in response to the presentation of the impostor Lambert Simnel as the \"Earl of Warwick\" to the Irish lords. Shortly thereafter, probably in November 1487, Henry VII gave Margaret in marriage to his cousin, Sir Richard Pole, whose mother was half-sister of the king's mother, Margaret Beaufort. When Perkin Warbeck impersonated Edward IV's presumed-dead son Richard of Shrewsbury, 1st Duke of York, in 1499, Margaret's brother Edward was attainted and executed for involvement in the plot. Richard Pole held a variety of offices in Henry VII's government, the highest being Chamberlain for Arthur, Prince of Wales, Henry's elder son. When Arthur married Catherine of Aragon, Margaret became one of her ladies-in-waiting, but her entourage was dissolved when the teenaged Arthur died in 1502.\n\nWhen her husband died in 1504, Margaret was a widow with five children, a limited amount of land inherited from her husband, no salary and no prospects. Henry VII paid for Richard's funeral. To ease the situation, Margaret devoted her third son Reginald Pole to the Church, where he was to have an eventful career as a papal Legate and later Archbishop of Canterbury. Nonetheless, he was to resent her abandonment of him bitterly in later life. Additionally, Margaret, without adequate means to support herself and her children, was forced to live at Syon Abbey among Bridgettine nuns after her husband's death. She was to remain there until she returned to favour at the ascension of Henry VIII in 1509.\n\nWhen Henry VIII came to the throne in 1509, he married Catherine of Aragon himself. Margaret was again appointed one of her ladies-in-waiting. In 1512, Parliament restored to her some of her brother's lands of the earldom of Salisbury (only), for which she paid 5000 marks (£2666.13s.4d). Henry VII had controlled them, first during her brother's minority and then during his imprisonment, and had confiscated them after his trial. The same Act also restored to Margaret the Earldom of Salisbury. The Warwick and Spencer [Despencer] lands remained crown property.\n\nAs Countess of Salisbury, Margaret managed her lands well, and by 1538, she was the fifth richest peer in England. She was a patron of the new learning, like many Renaissance nobles; Gentian Hervet translated Erasmus' \"de immensa misericordia Dei\" (\"The Great Mercy of God\") into English for her. Her first son, Henry Pole, was created Baron Montagu, another of the Neville titles; he spoke for the family in the House of Lords. Her second son, Arthur Pole, had a generally successful career as a courtier, becoming one of the six Gentlemen of the Privy Chamber. He suffered a setback when his patron Edward Stafford, 3rd Duke of Buckingham, was convicted of treason in 1521, but he was soon restored to favour. He died young about 1526, having married the heir of Roger Lewknor; the Countess and her son Henry pressed Arthur's widow to a vow of perpetual chastity to preserve her inheritance for her Pole children. Margaret's daughter Ursula married the Duke of Buckingham's son, Henry Stafford, but after the Duke's fall, the couple was given only fragments of his estates.\n\nMargaret's third son, Reginald Pole, studied abroad in Padua; he was dean in Exeter and Wimborne Minster, Dorset as well canon in York. He had several other livings, although he had not been ordained a priest. He represented Henry VIII in Paris in 1529, persuading the theologians of the Sorbonne to support Henry's divorce from Catherine of Aragon. Her youngest son Geoffrey Pole also married well, to Constance, daughter of Edmund Pakenham, and inherited the estate of Lordington in Sussex.\n\nMargaret's own favour at Court varied. She had a dispute over land with Henry VIII in 1518; he awarded the contested lands to the Duchy of Somerset, which had been held by his Beaufort grandfather—and were now in the possession of the Crown. In 1520, Margaret was appointed Governess to Henry's daughter, Princess Mary; the next year, when her sons were mixed up with Buckingham, she was removed, but she was restored by 1525. When Mary was declared a bastard in 1533, Margaret refused to give Mary's gold plate and jewels back to Henry. Mary's household was broken up at the end of the year, and Margaret asked to serve Mary at her own cost, but was not permitted. The Imperial Ambassador Eustace Chapuys suggested two years later that Mary be handed over to Margaret, but Henry refused, calling her \"a fool, of no experience.\" When Henry's queen Anne Boleyn was arrested, and eventually executed, in 1536, Margaret was permitted to return to Court, albeit briefly.\n\nIn May 1536, Reginald Pole finally and definitively broke with the king. In 1531, he warned of the dangers of the Boleyn marriage. He returned to Padua in 1532, and received a last English benefice in December of that year. Chapuys suggested to Emperor Charles V that Reginald marry Mary and combine their dynastic claims. Chapuys also communicated with Reginald through his brother Geoffrey. Reginald replied to books Henry sent him with his own pamphlet, \"pro ecclesiasticae unitatis defensione\", or \"de unitate\", which denied Henry's position on the marriage of a brother's wife and denied the royal supremacy. Reginald also urged the princes of Europe to depose Henry immediately. Henry wrote to Margaret, who in turn wrote to her son a letter reproving him for his \"folly\".\n\nIn 1537, Reginald (still not ordained) was created a Cardinal. Pope Paul III put him in charge of organising assistance for the Pilgrimage of Grace (and related movements), an effort to organise a march on London to install a conservative Catholic government instead of Henry's increasingly ‘protestant’ leaning one. Neither Francis I of France nor the Emperor supported this effort, and the English government tried to have him assassinated. In 1539, Reginald was sent to the Emperor to organise an embargo against England — the sort of countermeasure he had himself warned Henry was possible.\n\nGeoffrey Pole was arrested in August 1538; he had been corresponding with Reginald, and the investigation of Henry Courtenay, Marquess of Exeter (Henry VIII's first cousin and Geoffrey's second cousin) had turned up his name. Geoffrey had appealed to Thomas Cromwell, who had him arrested and interrogated. Under interrogation, Geoffrey said that his eldest brother, Lord Montagu, and the Marquess had been parties to his correspondence with Reginald. Montagu, Exeter, and Margaret were arrested in November 1538.\n\nIn January 1539, Geoffrey was pardoned, but Margaret's son Henry, Baron Montagu (and cousin Exeter) were later executed for treason after trial. In May 1539, Henry, Margaret, Exeter and others were attainted, as Margaret's father had been. This conviction meant they lost their titles and their lands—mostly in the South of England, conveniently located to assist any invasion. As part of the evidence for the Bill of Attainder, Cromwell produced a tunic bearing the Five Wounds of Christ, symbolising Margaret's support for Catholicism and the rule of her son Reginald and the king's Catholic daughter Mary. The supposed discovery, six months after her house and effects were searched at her arrest, is likely to have been a fabrication. She was sentenced to death, and could be executed at the king's will.\n\nMargaret Pole, as she now was styled, was held in the Tower of London for two and a half years. She, her grandson Henry (son of her own son Henry), and Exeter's son were held together and supported by the king. She was attended by servants and received an extensive grant of clothing in March 1541. In 1540, Cromwell himself fell from favour and was attainted and executed.\n\nThe following poem was found carved on the wall of her cell:\n<poem style=\"font-style:italic; margin-left:1.6em\">\nFor traitors on the block should die;\nI am no traitor, no, not I!\nMy faithfulness stands fast and so,\nTowards the block I shall not go!\nNor make one step, as you shall see;\nChrist in Thy Mercy, save Thou me!\n</poem>\n\nOn the morning of 27 May 1541, Margaret was told she was to die within the hour. She answered that no crime had been imputed to her. Nevertheless, she was taken from her cell to the place within the precincts of the Tower of London where a low wooden block had been prepared instead of the customary scaffold. As she was of noble birth, she was not executed before the populace. Two written reports survive of her execution, both being eye witnesses: by Marillac, the French ambassador; and by Chapuys, ambassador to the Holy Roman Emperor. Their accounts differ slightly, with Marillac's report, dispatched two days afterwards, recording that the execution took place in a corner of the Tower with so few people present that in the evening news of her execution was doubted. Chapuys wrote two weeks after the execution that 150 witnesses had been present including the Lord Mayor of London. He wrote that, \"at first, when the sentence of death was made known to her, she found\nthe thing very strange, not knowing of what crime she was accused, nor how she had been sentenced\" and that, because the main executioner had been sent North to deal with rebels, the execution was performed by \"a wretched and blundering youth who literally hacked her head and shoulders to pieces in the most pitiful manner.\" An apocryphal account, described in Burke's Peerage as an invention to explain the appalling circumstances of her death, states that Margaret refused to lay her head on the block, declaiming, \"So should traitors do, and I am none;\" according to the account, she turned her head \"every which way,\" instructing the executioner that, if he wanted her head, he should take it as he could. Margaret was buried in the chapel of St. Peter ad Vincula within the Tower of London.\n\nBoth Margaret's father and her mother's father were Earls of Salisbury. It is unclear whether they held the same earldom, and if not, which of the earldoms was restored to her. The Act of Parliament does not say, and respectable authorities differ; the chief effect of these verbal issues is whether she is eighth or second holder of the earldom (in shorthand, \"8th Countess\" or \"2nd Countess\"; other numbers are also defensible).\n\nWhen Margaret's grandfather (Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick) died, leaving no sons and two daughters, his lands were divided between them, and when the younger daughter, Anne Neville, Richard III's queen, died without surviving children, Edward Plantagenet, as her nephew, inherited the lot. In the fifteenth century, the elder daughter's husband, George of Clarence, would have inherited the chief estate of the family and the earldoms. By modern law, it would have required a new creation for George to be an earl, although the law of abeyance, first devised under the Stuarts, would permit the king to declare one of the daughters a countess in her own right; however this did not happen. In the fifteenth century, an only daughter would have inherited — this is how the title came to the Nevilles in the first place — but when a peer left several daughters, the title immediately reverted to the Crown, which might very well regrant it to a member of the family.\n\nJ. Horace Round, as followed by the \"Complete Peerage\", holds, therefore, that her brother was representative of his father, and not of her grandfather, and that what was restored to his estate was his father's Earldom of Salisbury; so she is second Countess.\n\nHer son, Reginald Pole, said that he would \"...never fear to call himself the son of a martyr\". She was later regarded by Catholics as such and was beatified on 29 December 1886 by Pope Leo XIII.\n\nWhen not at Court, Margaret lived chiefly at Warblington Castle in Hampshire and Bisham Manor in Berkshire. She and her husband were parents to five children:\n\nMargaret appears in William Shakespeare's 16th century play \"Richard III\" as the young daughter of the murdered Duke of Clarence.\n\nThe character of Lady Salisbury in the Showtime series \"The Tudors\", played by Kate O'Toole in 2007 and 2009, is loosely based on Margaret Pole. Janet Henfrey portrays Margaret in Episode 4 (\"The Devil's Spit\") of \"Wolf Hall\", the 2015 BBC adaptation of Hilary Mantel's novels \"Wolf Hall\" (2009) and \"Bring Up the Bodies\" (2012).\n\nMargaret is the main character of Philippa Gregory's 2014 novel \"The King's Curse\". She also appears in Gregory's 2013 novel \"The White Princess\" as well as \"The Kingmaker's Daughter\" about her mother, Isabel Neville and her aunt, Anne Neville, and was portrayed by Rebecca Benson in the television adaptation of \"The White Princess\". She will be portrayed by Laura Carmichael in an upcoming series titled \"The Spanish Princess\", a sequel to \"The White Princess\"\n\nMargaret is the main character of Samantha Wilcoxson's 2016 novel, \"Faithful Traitor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4191298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4191298", "title": "Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952", "text": "Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952\n\nMaternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1952, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to maternity protection...\n\nThe convention revised Convention C3 on definition of women, to be also irrespective of race and creed, not only of age, marriage status and nationality, and was subsequently revised in 2000 by Convention C183 on minimum condition of maternity leave (from 12 weeks to 14 weeks) and women's rights.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 41 states. Subsequently, the treaty has been denounced by 17 of the ratifying states, some automatically due to ratification of conventions that trigger automatic denunciation of the 1952 treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "31197929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31197929", "title": "Media cross-ownership in the United States", "text": "Media cross-ownership in the United States\n\nMedia cross-ownership is the ownership of multiple media businesses by a person or corporation. These businesses can include broadcast and cable television, film, radio, newspaper, magazine, book publishing, music, video games, and various online entities. Much of the debate over concentration of media ownership in the United States has for many years focused specifically on the ownership of broadcast stations, cable stations, newspapers and websites.\n\nOver time the amount of media merging has increased and the number of media outlets have increased. That translates to fewer companies owning more media outlets, increasing the concentration of ownership.\nIn 1983, 90% of US media was controlled by 50 companies; today, 90% is controlled by just 6 companies.\n\n\nThe former News Corporation was split into two separate companies on June 28, 2013, with publishing assets and Australian media assets going to New News Corp, and broadcasting and media assets going to 21st Century Fox. Both companies remain under the control of Rupert Murdoch In 2018, most of 21st Century Fox, with the exception of its broadcast licenses and news and sports assets, will be sold to The Walt Disney Company.\n\n\nThe First Amendment to the United States Constitution included a provision that protected \"freedom of the press\" from Congressional action. For newspapers and other print items, in which the medium itself was practically infinite and publishers could produce as many publications as they wanted without interfering with any other publisher's ability to do the same, this was not a problem.\n\nThe debut of radio broadcasting in the first part of the 20th century complicated matters; the radio spectrum is finite, and only a limited number of broadcasters could use the medium at the same time. The United States government opted to declare the entire broadcast spectrum to be government property and license the rights to use the spectrum to broadcasters. After several years of experimental broadcast licensing, the United States licensed its first commercial radio station, KDKA, in 1920.\n\nPrior to 1927, public airwaves in the United States were regulated by the United States Department of Commerce and largely litigated in the courts as the growing number of stations fought for space in the burgeoning industry. In the earliest days, radio stations were typically required to share the same standard frequency (833 kHz) and were not allowed to broadcast an entire day, instead having to sign on and off at designated times to allow competing stations to use the frequency.\n\nThe Federal Radio Act of 1927 (signed into law February 23, 1927) nationalized the airwaves and formed the Federal Radio Commission, the forerunner of the modern Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to assume control of the airwaves. One of the first moves of the FRC was General Order 40, the first U.S. bandplan, which allocated permanent frequencies for most U.S. stations and eliminated most of the part-time broadcasters.\n\nThe Communications Act of 1934 was the stepping stone for all of the communications rules that are in place today. When first enacted, it created the FCC (Federal Communications Commission). It was created to regulate the telephone monopolies, but also regulate the licensing for the spectrum used for broadcasting. The FCC was given authority by Congress to give out licenses to companies to use the broadcasting spectrum. However, they had to determine whether the license would serve \"the public interest, convenience, and necessity\". The primary goal for the FCC, from the start, has been to serve the \"public interest\". A debated concept, the term \"public interest\" was provided with a general definition by the Federal Radio Commission. The Commission determined, in its 1928 annual report, that \"the emphasis must be first and foremost on the interest, the convenience, and the necessity of the listening public, and not on the interest, convenience, or necessity of the individual broadcaster or the advertiser.\" Following this reasoning, early FCC regulations reflected the presumption that \"it would not be in the public's interest for a single entity to hold more than one broadcast license in the same community. The view was that the public would benefit from a diverse array of owners because it would lead to a diverse array of program and service viewpoints.\"\n\nThe Communications Act of 1934 refined and expanded on the authority of the FCC to regulate public airwaves in the United States, combining and reorganizing provisions from the Federal Radio Act of 1927 and the Mann-Elkins Act of 1910. It empowered the FCC, among other things, to administer broadcasting licenses, impose penalties and regulate standards and equipment used on the airwaves. The Act also mandated that the FCC would act in the interest of the \"public convenience, interest, or necessity.\" The Act established a system whereby the FCC grants licenses to the spectrum to broadcasters for commercial use, so long as the broadcasters act in the public interest by providing news programming.\n\nLobbyists from the largest radio broadcasters, ABC and NBC, wanted to establish high fees for broadcasting licenses, but Congress saw this as a limitation upon free speech. Consequently, \"the franchise to operate a broadcasting station, often worth millions, is awarded free of charge to enterprises selected under the standard of 'public interest, convenience, or necessity.'\"\n\nNevertheless, radio and television was dominated by the Big Three television networks until the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 1975, the FCC passed the newspaper and broadcast cross-ownership rule. This ban prohibited the ownership of a daily newspaper and any \"full-power broadcast station that serviced the same community\". This rule emphasized the need to ensure that a broad number of voices were given the opportunity to communicate via different outlets in each market. Newspapers, explicitly prohibited from federal regulation because of the guarantee of freedom of the press in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, were out of the FCC's jurisdiction, but the FCC could use the ownership of a newspaper as a preclusion against owning radio or television licenses, which the FCC could and did regulate.\n\nThe FCC designed rules to make sure that there is a diversity of voices and opinions on the airwaves. \"Beginning in 1975, FCC rules banned cross-ownership by a single entity of a daily newspaper and television or radio broadcast station operating in the same local market.\" The ruling was put in place to limit media concentration in TV and radio markets, because they use public airwaves, which is a valuable, and now limited, resource.\n\nThe Telecommunications Act of 1996 was an influential act for media cross-ownership. One of the requirements of the act was that the FCC must conduct a biennial review of its media ownership rules \"and shall determine whether any of such rules are necessary in the public interest as the result of competition.\" The Commission was ordered to \"repeal or modify any regulation it determines to be no longer in the public interest.\"\n\nThe legislation, touted as a step that would foster competition, actually resulted in the subsequent mergers of several large companies, a trend which still continues. Over 4,000 radio stations were bought out, and minority ownership of TV stations dropped to its lowest point since the federal government began tracking such data in 1990.\n\nSince the Telecommunications Act of 1996, restrictions on media merging have decreased. Although merging media companies seems to provide many positive outcomes for the companies involved in the merge, it might lead to some negative outcomes for other companies, viewers and future businesses. The FCC even found that they were indeed negative effects of recent merges in a study that they issued.\n\nIn September 2002, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking stating that the Commission would re-evaluate its media ownership rules pursuant to the obligation specified in the Telecommunications Act of 1996. In June 2003, after its deliberations which included a single public hearing and the review of nearly two-million pieces of correspondence from the public opposing further relaxation of the ownership rules the FCC voted 3-2 to repeal the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and to make changes to or repeal a number of its other ownership rules as well. In the order, the FCC noted that the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule was no longer necessary in the public interest to maintain competition, diversity or localism. However, in 2007 the FCC revised its rules and ruled that they would take it \"case-by-case and determine if the cross-ownership would affect the public interest. The rule changes permitted a company to own a newspaper and broadcast station in any of the nation's top 20 media markets as long as there are at least eight media outlets in the market. If the combination included a television station, that station couldn't be in the market's top four. As it has since 2003, Prometheus Radio Project argued that the relaxed rule would pave the way for more media consolidation. Broadcasters, pointing to the increasing competition from new platforms, argued that the FCC's rules—including other ownership regulations that govern TV duopolies and radio ownership—should be relaxed even further. The FCC, meanwhile, defended its right to change the rules either way.\" That public interest is what the FCC bases its judgments on, whether a media cross-ownership would be a positive and contributive force, locally and nationally.\n\nThe FCC held one official forum, February 27, 2003, in Richmond, Virginia in response to public pressures to allow for more input on the issue of elimination of media ownership limits. Some complain that more than one forum was needed.\n\nIn 2003 the FCC set out to re-evaluate its media ownership rules specified in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.\nOn June 2, 2003, FCC, in a 3-2 vote under Chairman Michael Powell, approved new media ownership laws that removed many of the restrictions previously imposed to limit ownership of media within a local area. The changes were not, as is customarily done, made available to the public for a comment period.\n\n\nThe decision by the FCC was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in \"Prometheus Radio Project v. FCC\" in June, 2004. The Majority ruled 2-1 against the FCC and ordered the Commission to reconfigure how it justified raising ownership limits. The Supreme Court later turned down an appeal, so the ruling stands.\n\nIn June 2006, the FCC adopted a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (FNPR) to address the issues raised by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and also to perform the recurring evaluation of the media ownership rules required by the Telecommunications Act. The deliberations would draw upon three formal sources of input:(1) the submission of comments, (2) ten Commissioned studies, and (3) six public hearings.\n\nThe FCC in 2007 voted to modestly relax its existing ban on newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership. \nThe FCC voted December 18, 2007 to eliminate some media ownership rules, including a statute that forbids a single company to own both a newspaper and a television or radio station in the same city. FCC Chairman Kevin Martin circulated the plan in October 2007. Martin's justification for the rule change is to ensure the viability of America's newspapers and to address issues raised in the 2003 FCC decision that was later struck down by the courts. The FCC held six hearings around the country to receive public input from individuals, broadcasters and corporations. Because of the lack of discussion during the 2003 proceedings, increased attention has been paid to ensuring that the FCC engages in proper dialogue with the public regarding its current rules change. FCC Commissioners Deborah Taylor-Tate and Robert McDowell joined Chairman Martin in voting in favor of the rule change. Commissioners Michael Copps and Jonathan Adelstein, both Democrats, opposed the change.\n\nBeginning in 1985, the FCC implemented a rule stating that television stations broadcasting on UHF channels would be \"discounted\" by half when calculating a broadcaster's total reach, under the market share cap of 39% of U.S. TV households. This rule was implemented because the UHF band was generally considered inferior to VHF for broadcasting analog television. The notion became obsolete since the completion of the transition from analog to digital television in 2009; the majority of television stations now broadcast on the UHF band because, by contrast, it is generally considered superior for digital transmission.\n\nThe FCC voted to deprecate the rule in September 2016; the Commission argued that the UHF discount had become technologically obsolete, and that it was now being used as a loophole by broadcasters to contravene its market share rules and increase their market share through consolidation. The existing portfolios of broadcasters who now exceeded the cap due to the change were grandfathered, including the holdings of Ion Media Networks, Tribune Media, and Univision.\n\nHowever, on April 21, 2017, under new Trump administration FCC commissioner Ajit Pai, the discount was reinstated in a 2-1 vote, led by Pai and commissioner Michael O'Rielly. The move, along with a plan to evaluate increasing the national ownership cap, is expected to trigger a wider wave of consolidation in broadcast television. A challenge to the rule's restoration was filed on May 15 by The Institute for Public Representation (a coalition of public interest groups comprising Free Press, the United Church of Christ, Media Mobilizing Project, the Prometheus Radio Project, the National Hispanic Media Coalition and Common Cause), which requested an emergency motion to stay the UHF discount order – delaying its June 5 re-implementation – pending a court challenge to the rule. The groups re-affirmed that the rule was technologically obsolete, and was restored for the purpose of allowing media consolidation. The FCC rejected the claims, stating that the discount would only allow forward a regulatory review of any station group acquisitions, and that the Institute for Public Representation's criteria for the stay fell short of meeting adequate determination in favor of it by the court; it also claimed that the discount was \"inextricably linked\" to the agency's media ownership rules, a review of which it initiated in May of that year.\n\nThe challenge and subsequent stay motion was partly filed as a reaction to Sinclair Broadcast Group's proposed acquisition of Tribune Media (announced on May 8), which – with the more than 230 stations that the combined company would have, depending on any divestitures in certain markets where both groups own stations – would expand the group's national reach to 78% of all U.S. households with at least one television set with the discount. On June 1, 2017, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals issued a seven-day administrative stay to the UHF discount rulemaking to review the emergency stay motion. The D.C. Court of Appeals denied the emergency stay motion in a one-page memorandum on June 15, 2017, however, the merits of restoring the discount is still subject to a court appeal proceeding scheduled to occur at a later date.\n\nA 2008 study found that news stations operated by a small media company produced more local news and more locally produced video than large chain-based broadcasting groups. It was then argued that the FCC claimed, in 2003, that larger media groups produced better quality local content. Research by Philip Napoli and Michael Yan showed that larger media groups actually produced less local content. In a different study, they also showed that \"ownership by one of the big four broadcast networks has been linked to a considerable decrease in the amount of televised local public affairs programming\"\n\nThe major reasoning the FCC made for deregulation was that with more capital, broadcasting organizations could produce more and better local content. However, the research studies by Napoli and Yan showed that once teamed-up, they produced less content. Cross ownership between broadcasting and newspapers is a complicated issue. The FCC believes that more deregulation is necessary. However, with research studies showing that they produced less local content - less voices being heard that are from within the communities. While less local voices are heard, more national-based voices do appear. Chain-based companies are using convergence, the same content being produced across multiple mediums, to produce this mass-produced content. It's cheaper and more efficient than having to run different local and national news. However, with convergence and chain-based ownership you can choose which stories to run and how the stories are heard - being able to be played in local communities and national stage.\n\n Robert McChesney is an advocate for media reform, and the co-founder of Free Press, which was established in 2003. His work is based on theoretical, normative, and empirical evidence suggesting that media regulation efforts should be more strongly oriented towards maintaining a healthy balance of diverse viewpoints in the media environment. However, his viewpoints on current regulation are; \"there is every bit as much regulation by government as before, only now it is more explicitly directed to serve large corporate interests.\"\n\nMcChesney believes that the Free Press' objective is a more diverse and competitive commercial system with a significant nonprofit and noncommercial sector. It would be a system built for the citizens, but most importantly - it would be accessible to anyone who wants to broadcast. Not only specifically the big corporations that can afford to broadcast nationally, but more importantly \"locally\". McChesney suggests that to better our current system we need to \"establish a bona fide noncommercial public radio and television system, with local and national stations and networks. The expense should come out of the general budget\"\n\nBenjamin Compaine believes that the current media system is \"one of the most competitive major industries in U.S. commerce.\" He believes that much of the media in the United States is operating in the same market. He also believes that all the content is being interchanged between different media.\n\nCompaine believes that due to convergence, two or more things coming together, the media has been saved. Because of the ease of access to send the same message across multiple and different mediums, the message is more likely to be heard. He also believes that due to the higher amount of capital and funding, the media outlets are able to stay competitive because they are trying to reach more listeners or readers by using newer media.\n\nBenjamin Compaine's main argument is that the consolidation of media outlets, across multiple ownerships, has allowed for a better quality of content. He also stated that the news is interchangeable, and as such, making the media market less concentrated than previously thought, the idea being that since the same story is being pushed across multiple different platforms, then it can only be counted as one news story from multiple sources. Compaine also believed the news is more readily available, making it far easier for individuals to access than traditional methods.\n\nA 2012 Gallup poll found that Americans' distrust in the mass media had hit a new high, with 60% saying they had little or no trust in the mass media to report the news fully, accurately, and fairly. Distrust had increased since the previous few years, when Americans were already more negative about the media than they had been in the years before 2004.\n"}
{"id": "5315927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5315927", "title": "National Action Charter of Bahrain", "text": "National Action Charter of Bahrain\n\nThe National Action Charter of Bahrain is a document put forward by King Hamad ibn Isa Al Khalifah of Bahrain in 2001 in order to end the popular 1990s Uprising and return the country to constitutional rule. It was approved in a national referendum in 2001, in which 98.4% of the voters voted in favor of the document.\n\nThe referendum took place on 14 and 15 February. Voter turnout was 90.2%, with 98.41% voting in favour.\n"}
{"id": "36252416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36252416", "title": "Niuean constitutional referendum, 1974", "text": "Niuean constitutional referendum, 1974\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Niue on 3 September 1974. The referendum was approved by the Niue Assembly on 16 July 1974. The new constitution would make Niue an autonomous region under the sovereignty of New Zealand; islanders would gain New Zealand citizenship and be able to settle freely in New Zealand. The constitution was approved by 65.4% of voters, and came into force on 19 October.\n"}
{"id": "37080898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37080898", "title": "Niuean constitutional referendum, 1992", "text": "Niuean constitutional referendum, 1992\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Niue on 13 June 1992. The proposed amendments to the constitution were the first since the country's original constitution was approved in a 1974 referendum. The changes were approved by a large majority of voters.\n\nThe changes to the constitution included the introduction of the Niuean High Court and Court of Appeal, replacing the use of the equivalent courts in New Zealand. The reforms also abolished the Niue Land Court and the Niue Land Appeal Court, instead creating a Land Division in the new High Court.\n\nQualifications for political candidates were amended to require New Zealand citizenship. It also removed article 31, a requirement for the Chief Justice to approve any legislative proposal that would affect criminal law or personal status. This effectively removed the human rights element of the constitution.\n\nFollowing the approval of the changes, there was subsequent criticism that the individual changes should have been voted on separately, as well as of the removal of article 31.\n"}
{"id": "20277009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20277009", "title": "Otto von Corvin", "text": "Otto von Corvin\n\nOtto Julius Bernhard von Corvin-Wiersbitzki (12 October 1812 – 2 March 1886) was a German author.\n\nCorvin was born in Gumbinnen (Prussia) to the Rittmeister, and later director of the postal administration, of Gumbinnen Friedrich August Heinrich von Corvin-Wiersbitzki. His parents divorced in his childhood and after his father's death in 1822 Corvin was raised by his mother, who had moved to Halberstadt. He attended military school in Potsdam and Berlin-Lichterfelde, eventually becoming a lieutenant in the Prussian Army.\n\nHe left the military in 1835 to devote himself to writing. His novels and dramas did not attract notice, but a book of instruction on swimming — he was very talented in this area having organized the swimming pool at his army post and taught the people there how to dive and swim — was quite popular. He also founded magazines on outdoor life and horses, the first of their kind in Germany, and they did well. With this success, he was able to marry. In Leipzig, he put out a sports almanac for 1844 and \"Taschenbuch für Jäger und Naturfreunde\" (\"Handbook for Hunters and Friends of Nature\").\n\nHis circle of friends crystallized into the first literary club in Germany, and they waged a small war against the police and bureaucracy. An enthusiastic Protestant, he wrote historical studies of which \"Historische Denkmale des christlichen Fanatismus\" (\"Historical Monuments to Christian Fanaticism\"; 1845) is a typical title. This particular book was released in conjunction with the inauguration of the German Catholic movement in Leipzig, and was later republished as \"Der Pfaffenspiegel\" (1869) and supplemented by \"Die Geissler\" (3d ed., 1892-1893). A political magazine, \"Die Locomotive\", was shut down by the government censors. His \"Illustrirte Weltgeschichte für das Volk\" (\"Popular Illustrated History of the World\") did very well. In search of an effective and cheap reproduction technology for the illustrations in his \"History\", he developed a process eventually called \"Corviniello,\" later fine-tuned while he was in prison, which became widely used.\n\nIn 1848, he fought in the barricades in the French uprising. The French provisional government then offered him generous support for democratic uprisings in Germany, however his offer to the Frankfurt parliament to form a national army was sharply rebuffed. In 1848-1849, after participating in the Berlin uprising, he took part in the Baden revolt, first as a colonel of militia under Mieroslawski in Mannheim, then as chief of the general staff in Rastatt. In Rastatt, he along with many others, found himself trapped there on June 30 by the Prussians. In September 1849, a court martial condemned him to death, but the sentence was commuted to six years' solitary confinement, which he passed at Bruchsal.\n\nOn his release, he went to London where he taught German and worked for Charles Dickens on \"All the year round\" and \"Household Words\". In 1857 in Soden, he finished the memoirs of his prison experience. An attempted return to Germany at Hamburg was frustrated by police chicanery, and he returned to London, his memoirs finally being published in 1861 in Amsterdam. That year he traveled to the United States of America to cover the Civil War for \"The Times\" and Augsburg \"Allgemeine Zeitung\", returning to Berlin in 1867 as a special correspondent for the New York \"Times\".\n\nIn Berlin, the Corvins lived with Prince Felix Salm and his wife Agnes Salm-Salm, whom they had met in America. Corvin edited the Salms' memoirs of Mexico and Emperor Maximilian. He covered the Franco-Prussian War for the Vienna \"Neue Freie Presse\", and papers in America, London and Germany. His experiences are described in his book \"In France with the Germans\" (1872). In 1878, he founded an association of German writers in Leipzig.\n\nHe died in 1886 in Wiesbaden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36026262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36026262", "title": "Price Media Law Moot Court Competition", "text": "Price Media Law Moot Court Competition\n\nThe Price Media Law Moot Court Competition or Price Moot in short, is an annual international moot court competition. Described as a competition \"for raising the profile of freedom of expression by bringing informed and effective debate and discussion on significant issues of information flows and technology to many parts of the world\", the Price Moot focuses on international media law and related human rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of association, and various facets of privacy. The main sources of law engaged include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, European Convention on Human Rights, and the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights.\n\nThe moot was created and continues to be organised by the Programme in Comparative Media Law and Policy at the University of Oxford, and is named after the programme's founding director, Monroe E. Price. In 2017, the Bonavero Institute of Human Rights joined as a partner. The international rounds of the competition are held at the University of Oxford, while national and regional rounds were introduced in 2010 and have since taken place in Afghanistan, the Americas, Asia-Pacific, China, Africa, East Africa, West Africa, Middle East, South Asia, Northeast Europe, and Southeast Europe. As of the tenth edition of the moot (2017), 130 universities from 52 countries have taken part in the competition. Singapore Management University, which made its debut in 2010, has the best track record in the moot, having reached the finals on five occasions (2010, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 (winning the 2010, 2016, and 2017 editions)), won Best Memorials thrice (2010, 2016, and 2018), won Best Finals Oralist twice (2017 and 2018), and won Best Oralist once (2017). In addition, Singapore Management University is the only champion school to have won both Best Finals Oralist and Best Oralist (2017), whether in the same year or otherwise.\n\nUnder the current rules, each university may send a team comprising up to six members. National and regional round procedures may vary, but in Oxford, each team will compete in between three and four preliminary rounds. The top 16 teams then advance to the knockout rounds, and the final two teams compete in the international championship round following the octo-finals, quarter-finals, and semi-finals. In every round, each team has 45 minutes (rebuttals inclusive) to plead a case. Each team also has to prepare a set of written submissions for applicant and respondent before the oral phase of the competition begins; the scores for the written submissions count toward qualification up till a certain point. With around a hundred teams taking part annually, the Price Moot is the world's largest competition in its field and is considered one of the grand slam or major moots.\n"}
{"id": "40640624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40640624", "title": "Protocol on Mines, Booby-Traps and Other Devices", "text": "Protocol on Mines, Booby-Traps and Other Devices\n\nThe Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby-Traps and Other Devices is a United Nations treaty that restricts the use of land mines, remotely delivered mines, and booby traps. It is Protocol II to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons.\n\nThe Protocol prohibits the use of land mines, remotely delivered mines, or booby traps to kill civilians or to cause superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering to soldiers. It also prohibits the use of booby traps that are \"attached to or associated with\" any of the following features: (a) internationally recognized protective emblems, signs or signals; (b) sick, wounded or dead persons; (c) burial or cremation sites or graves; (d) medical facilities, medical equipment, medical supplies or medical transportation; (e) children's toys or other portable objects or products specially designed for the feeding, health, hygiene, clothing or education of children; (f) food or drink; (g) kitchen utensils or appliances except in military establishments, military locations or military supply depots; (h) objects clearly of a religious nature; (i) historic monuments, works of art or places of worship which constitute the cultural or spiritual heritage of peoples; and (j) animals or their carcasses.\n\nThe Protocol applies to both international and internal armed conflicts. It prohibits the use of non-detectable anti-personnel mines and their transfer; prohibits the use of non-self-destructing and non-self-deactivating mines outside fenced, monitored and marked areas; broadens obligations of protection in favour of peacekeeping and other missions of the United Nations and its agencies; requires States to enforce compliance with its provisions within their jurisdiction; and calls for penal sanctions in case of violation.\n\nThe original Protocol was an annex to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons and entered into force on 2 December 1983. The Protocol was amended in Geneva on 3 May 1996. The amended version entered into force on 3 December 1998 and as of November 2018 has 105 state parties, which includes 104 United Nations member states plus the Holy See.\n\n"}
{"id": "56164962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56164962", "title": "REDMAP", "text": "REDMAP\n\nREDMAP (short for Redistricting Majority Project) is a project of the Republican State Leadership Committee of the United States to increase Republican control of Congressional seats as well as state legislators, largely through determination of electoral district boundaries. The project has reportedly made effective use of partisan gerrymandering, by relying on previously unavailable mapping software such as Maptitude to improve the precision with which district lines are strategically drawn. The strategy was focused on swing blue states like Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, and Wisconsin where there was a Democratic majority but which they could swing towards Republican with appropriate redistricting. The project was launched in 2010 and estimated to have cost the Republican party around .\n\n\"Salon\" editor David Daley, author of the 2016 book \"Ratf**ked\", argues that beginning in 2010, the GOP sought control of governorships and state legislatures for the express purpose of controlling redistricting to protect House Republican seats. This push was led by the Republican Senate Leadership Committee, and organized by Chris Jankowski as the Redistricting Majority Project. GOP strategist Karl Rove discussed this strategy with \"The Wall Street Journal\". \n\nThe effects of REDMAP came about in the 2012 election, in which the Republicans were able to secure several districts and retain control of the United States House of Representatives by a 33-seat margin, despite Democratic candidates having had more of the general vote.\n\nThe redistricting of Wisconsin became the basis of a case before the Supreme Court of the United States, \"Gill v. Whitford\", brought to challenge if the redistricting of that state was considered unconstitutional partisan gerrymandering.\n"}
{"id": "32502550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32502550", "title": "Research Society of International Law", "text": "Research Society of International Law\n\nThe Research Society of International Law (RSIL) was founded by Mr. Ahmer Bilal Soofi in 1993. RSIL works in policy and research, its mission is to conduct research on the dynamic between Pakistan and its international legal obligations. RSIL is apolitical and unbiased, and conducts dedicated research on a range of important issues of law, both international and domestic. This research supports debates on matter of national importance and provides integral input towards the development of the domestic legal environment.\n\nRSIL’s activities are focused on providing specialized advisory services to both non-governmental and governmental organisations. Developing the capacity of various stakeholders in the policy making community. And carrying out research as part of various legal reform initiatives in partnership with numerous different stakeholders at the Federal and Provincial levels.\n\nRSIL also conducts research into a variety of modern legal challenges faced by Pakistan through the Conflict Law Centre (CLC). This unique and specially designated research centre focuses on the function of International Humanitarian Law (the Law of Armed Conflict) in Pakistan.\nStaffed by a team of researchers in offices in both Lahore and Islamabad, RSIL is the first and largest legal think-tank in Pakistan. RSIL staffers possess a diverse array of specializations in both domestic and international law. This allows the Society to undertake innovative research to provide out-of-the-box solutions for Pakistan. \nThe Society also has an in-house legislative drafting team which enables RSIL to apply its proposals into readily implementable options for both Federal and Provincial Governments. RSIL also works extensively with government officials by conducting trainings, workshops, and seminars, giving RSIL a unique role in the development of legal reform for more than two decades.\n\nRSIL is a tool for the advancement and publicity of international law research and capacity building in Pakistan. It upholds its role as a private sector organisation that is unbiased, apolitical, international law think tank that promotes awareness of international law.\n\nThe Society aims to improve the understanding of the importance of Pakistan’s international legal commitments. This is essential as greater awareness will assist Pakistan in remaining compliant with its international legal obligations, thus cementing its reputation as a responsible member of the international community.\n\nThe environment at RSIL purposefully encourages the development of in-depth, original and wide-ranging research and analysis. RSIL aims to educate and to create an appreciation of international law and its application. It also supports a disciplined approach to the interpretation and implementation of international law.\n\nRSIL has also sought and continues to seek to establish a network of similar organizations within and beyond Pakistan that share its dedication to international law. However, the Society’s real asset is its constantly developing team.\n\nThe idea for RSIL was developed in the late 1980s when its founder and President Mr. Ahmer Bilal Soofi was pursuing a Master of Laws at the University of Cambridge.\n\nAfter returning from the United Kingdom Mr. Soofi registered the Society in 1993 under the Societies Registration Act 1860 in Lahore, Pakistan.\n\nRSIL acquired permanent premises on Fane Road near the Lahore High Court in March 2003. Though motivated, RSIL’s initial team members were first and foremost lawyers employed by Mr Soofi’s law firm ABS & Co. In 2004, through a private grant, RSIL was able to hire dedicated research staff.\n\nIn 2011 RSIL established a foothold in Islamabad, within the Islamabad Offices of ABS & Co. The Society’s growth led RSIL to move into its own space in 2014. In 2015, RSIL established its first Research Unit, the Conflict Law Centre, under Director, Mr. Oves Anwar. The Centre focuses on the application of International Humanitarian Law in Pakistan. In 2016, RSIL created its second unit by formalizing its capacity building activities under the stewardship of Director, Saad-ur-Rehman Khan.\n\nRSIL’s Specialized Advisory Division operates more like a traditional law firm. RSIL provides legal services in the form of legal opinions, drafting of agreements and supporting negotiations. RSIL has also represented various clients domestically and internationally. Some examples of this include: United Nations in Geneva, before the International Court of Justice (ICJ), the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), and arbitrations at the International Chamber of Commerce\nRSIL also provides support to donor-driven projects by advising on the suitability and legal viability of suggested proposals. Additionally, with regard to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) RSIL’s unique skill set is perfect for advising potential investors and businesspersons on Pakistan’s regulatory framework.\n\nAn integral part of RSIL’s core mandate is the development of the capacity of domestic and international policy makers. From its creation, RSIL has sought to educate and train stakeholders on the importance of the part that international law plays within a state’s legal framework. \nAs RSIL expanded, it was felt necessary to create a dedicated platform for RSIL’s capacity building activities. In June 2016, Mr. Ahmer Bilal Soofi established the International Law Training Centre (ILTC) at RSIL, so as to formalize RSIL’s capacity building activities under one roof so to speak. \nTo this end, a large space has also been designated within RSIL’s Islamabad Office for the ILTC. The ILTC can comfortably fit 35 participants or training attendees.\n\nThe Conflict Law Centre at the Research Society of International Law, Pakistan was established in September 2015 with the aim of studying Pakistan’s domestic law applicable to situations of armed hostilities and enhancing the capacity of State actors in relation to the State’s international legal obligations under International Humanitarian Law (IHL). \nAgainst the backdrop of several internal military operations to counter militancy and terrorism in the country, it was felt that a dedicated research unit was urgently needed to assess the effectiveness of domestic law. This included exploring the Constitutional mandate afforded to the Armed Forces of Pakistan under the rubric of Article 245 in relation to ‘actions in aid of civil power’, as well as law enforcement powers available under Pakistan’s counter-terrorism laws.\n\nAs mentioned above, one of RSIL’s core functions is the dissemination of international law in Pakistan. Increasing the awareness and importance of international amongst both practitioners and students. This includes both classroom style lectures on international law and training in its practical application.\nTo this end, RSIL conducts a variety of formalized training activities throughout the year.\n\nRSIL’s annual Fellowship Program is specifically designed for mid-career professionals representing both public and private sector organisations. The week-long course is specifically designed to deliver both theoretical and practical knowledge on international law and its application and implementation in Pakistan. \nLectures and simulations are conducted by RSIL staff and independent professionals, experts in their fields.\nThe Fellowship Program is RSIL’s longest running training activity and is recognised as a valuable qualification for advanced professionals, especially those involved in policy making.\n\nThe International Law Certification Course is a weeklong internship program for students and younger professionals who wish to gain an understanding of international law and in-depth analyses of areas of international law that are significant to Pakistan. The Course, usually conducted in the summer is meant to introduce international law to a whole new crop of professionals just starting out in their careers. It also includes sessions in writing and critical analysis. As with the Fellowship Program, the lectures are given by both RSIL team members and experts from all over the world.\n"}
{"id": "3291371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291371", "title": "S-Alternative", "text": "S-Alternative\n\nS-Alternative (in Swedish: \"S-Alternativet\") is a splinter-group of the Social Democrats in Pajala, Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1587168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587168", "title": "Sessions Court", "text": "Sessions Court\n\nA Sessions Court is a lesser court of law which exists in several democratic countries, including Bangladesh, India, Malaysia, and the United States of America. The session court is the highest criminal court in the district.\n\nSessions Court is a type of lower court in Bangladesh that deals with criminal cases. The Code of Criminal Procedure enables government to establish sessions court in every district or metropolitan city of Bangladesh. Based on location of establishment, Sessions courts are two type, namely\n\nWith the introduction of Metropolitan Police, the amended version of CrPC made it essential for the government to establish separate courts for metropolitan cities. Since then, Metropolitan Sessions Courts have been established in Bangladesh. For districts, both of criminal and civil courts are housed in same facility. Those are usually called District and Session Judge Court.\n\nBased on the type of adjudicator, Sessions Courts are two type, those are Court of Sessions Judge and Court of Magistrate. Court of Sessions Judge is presided by a Judge appointed by the government and Court of Magistrate are presided by a Judicial Magistrate. Court of Magistrate is under control of and subordinate to Sessions Judge. \n\nThe CrPC enables Sessions Judge to pass any sentence authorized by law. But any death sentence passed by such judge needs the confirmation from the High Court Division.\n\nDistrict court is referred to as sessions court when it exercises its jurisdiction on criminal matters under Code of Criminal procedure (CrPc) \n\nAs per section 9 of CrPc, the court is established by the State Government for every sessions division. The court is presided over by a Judge, appointed by the High Court of that particular state. The High Court may also appoint Additional Sessions Judges and Assistant Sessions Judges in this court.\n\nIn Indian cities, the Sessions Court is responsible for adjudicating matters related to criminal cases. The court is responsible for cases relating to murders, theft, dacoity, pick-pocketing and other such cases.\n\nIn Mumbai (Bombay) there are two courts, the main one being in the Kala Ghoda region of South Mumbai second at in Dindoshi in the suburban area of Goregaon.\n\nSessions court has the power to impose the full range of penalties for criminal acts, including the death penalty.\n\nOriginally, the Sessions Courts heard each case continuously in sessions and delivered judgements immediately on completion of arguments. Hence the name 'Sessions Court' meant that the cases would be disposed off expeditiously. One of the important reasons for delays in the Indian Judicial System, is that the concept of 'Sessions' is observed only in breach due to repeated adjournments, loop holes in the case papers and backlog of cases. The Government of India has not found a solution to this endemic problem.\n\nSomewhat like the former Quarter Sessions in England, but does not exceed RM1,000,000 as per ss 65(1)(b), 73(b), 93(1) of the Subordinate Courts Act 1948 (SCA). The exception however is in matters relating to motor vehicle accidents, landlord and tenant and distress, where the Sessions Courts have unlimited jurisdiction pursuant to s 65(1)(a)SCA. Also, by virtue of s 65(3) SCA, the parties to a legal action may enter into an agreement in writing to grant jurisdiction to the Sessions Court to try an action beyond its prescribed monetary jurisdiction aforesaid.\n\n"}
{"id": "146566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146566", "title": "Sex and the law", "text": "Sex and the law\n\nSex and the law deals with the regulation by law of human sexual activity. Sex laws vary from one place or jurisdiction to another, and have varied over time, and unlawful sexual acts are also called sex crimes.\n\nSome laws regulating sexual activity are intended to protect one or all participants, while others are intended to proscribe behavior that has been defined as a crime. For example, a law may proscribe unprotected sex if one person knows that he or she has a sexual disease or to protect a minor; or it may proscribe non-consensual sex, or because of a relationship between the participants, etc. In general, laws may proscribe acts which are considered either sexual abuse or behavior that societies consider to be inappropriate and against the social norms. Sexual abuse is unwanted sexual contact between two or more adults or two or more minors, and, depending on laws with regard to age of consent, sexual contact between an adult and a minor.\n\nSex crimes are forms of human sexual behavior that are crimes. Someone who commits one is said to be a \"sex offender\". Some sex crimes are crimes of violence that involve sex. Others are violations of social taboos, such as incest, sodomy, indecent exposure or exhibitionism. There is much variation among cultures as to what is considered a crime or not, and in what ways or to what extent crimes are punished.\n\nWestern cultures are often far more tolerant of acts, such as oral sex, that have traditionally been held to be crimes in some cultures, but combine this with lesser tolerance for the remaining crimes. By contrast, many cultures with a strong religious tradition consider a far broader range of activities to be serious crimes.\n\nAs a general rule, the law in many countries often intervenes in sexual activity involving young or adolescent children below the legal age of consent, non-consensual deliberate displays or illicit watching of sexual activity, sex with close relatives (incest), harm to animals, acts involving the deceased (necrophilia), and also when there is harassment, nuisance, fear, injury, or assault of a sexual nature, or serious risk of abuse of certain professional relationships. Separately, the law usually regulates or controls the censorship of pornographic or obscene material as well. A rape charge can only be issued when a person(s) of any age does not provide consent for sexual activity.\n\nThe activities listed below carry a condition of illegality in some jurisdictions if acted upon, though they may be legally role-played between consenting partners of legal age:\n\nA variety of laws aim to protect children by making various acts with children a sex crime. For example, the \"corruption of minors\" by introducing material or behaviors that are intended to groom a minor for future sexual conduct. The materials or behavior can involve sexual content but does not necessarily have to. Depending on the jurisdiction, this conduct can be charged as a felony or a misdemeanor. Sometimes these laws overlap with age of consent laws, laws preventing the exposure of children to pornography, laws making it a crime for a child to be involved in (or exposed to) certain sexual behaviors, and the production and ownership of child pornography (sometimes including simulated images). In some countries such as the UK, the age for child pornography is higher than the age of consent, hence child pornography laws also cover images involving consenting adults.\n\nSadomasochistic conduct among adults can fall into a legal grey area. Some jurisdictions criminalize some or all sadomasochistic acts, regardless of legal consent and impose liability for any injuries caused. \"(See Consent (BDSM))\" Other jurisdictions permit sadomasochistic conduct so long as the participants consent to the conduct.\n\nWhile the phrases \"age of consent\" or \"statutory rape\" typically do not appear in legal statutes, when used in relation to sexual activity, the age of consent is the minimum age at which a person is considered to be legally competent of consenting to engage in sexual acts. This should not be confused with the age of majority, age of criminal responsibility, or the marriageable age.\n\nThe age of consent varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The median seems to range from 16 to 18 years, but laws stating ages ranging from 9 to 21 do exist. In some jurisdictions, the age of consent takes account of a mental or functional age, so that victims can be of any chronological age if their mental age is below the age of consent.\n\nSome jurisdictions forbid sexual activity outside of legal marriage completely. The relevant age may also vary by the type of sexual act, the sex of the actors, or other restrictions such as abuse of a position of trust. Some jurisdictions may make allowances for minors engaged in sexual acts with each other, rather than a hard and fast single age. Charges resulting from a breach of these laws may range from a relatively low-level misdemeanor such as \"corruption of a minor\", to \"statutory rape\" (which is considered equivalent to rape, both in severity and sentencing).\n\nIn some states, sex between members of the same sex, or between men, is illegal. In a report done in 2013, the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, and Intersex Association (ILGA) indicated that homosexuality is still criminalized in some form in 76 states, with a high concentration of these states in the Middle East, Africa, and parts of Asia. Scholars have found that religion plays an important role in the legislation criminalizing sodomy. Countries that are predominately Muslim, for example, are less likely to decriminalize acts of sodomy as these acts are in direct contradiction with Islamic traditions. While quantitative research has not proven a link between the continued criminalization of sodomy and Christianity, there are many Protestant denominations, as well as the Roman Catholic Church, that hold rancorous policies toward homosexuality. While one might expect that the decriminalization of sodomy laws would support the mobilization of lesbian and gay rights, this is not necessarily the case, as there is debate on whether or a direct link exists between the two. In legislation regarding sodomy, there is typically no explicit statements given in the support of gay and lesbian rights since the reforms generally the result of a large emendation to penal code. There is some evidence in support of the opposite effect, as the re-criminalization of sodomy in India in 2013 caused a resurgence of gay rights activism.\n\nIn studying the changes of sodomy statutes, Frank et al. (2009) found that between 1945 and 2005, “90 percent of all modifications involved liberalization in some way” of non-heterosexual acts. This was seen as evidence of a “sodomy-law reform wave.” During the same period, however, eight countries expanded their laws regarding sodomy. In January 2014, Nigeria expanded their criminalization of homosexuality by passing legislation to enforce more severe penalties including a ban against same-sex marriage and participation in any gay organizations. Sodomy laws, however, are rarely used to penalize consensual acts, involving adults, that occur in private. In the 1970s, the only arrests (in the US) involving consensual, non-heterosexual acts were in public or quasi-public. While many sodomy laws are concerned with sexual acts as opposed to sexual orientations, the legislation is often interpreted as if being gay or lesbian is sufficient enough evidence to deem someone guilty as to having engaged in criminal acts. This led US judges to deny parents' custody of their children, student groups were not granted recognition by university officials, and many legislators were opposed to civil rights bills that included sexual orientation.\n\nMany revisions to sodomy laws were not a part of large government transitions, but rather included as a part of other general revisions of criminal legislation. There are two main pathways in which sodomy laws have been decriminalized: judicial invalidation and repeal of the law by vote of legislation. The United States did not decriminalize sodomy nationwide until 2003; however, many states, based on the council of judges and lawyers, did decriminalize sodomy as early as 1961.\n\nDuring the rise of Putin, Russia has seen a resurgence in \"religious conservativism\" which has resulted in the indirect re-criminalizing homosexuality. An amendment was made to Russian legislation in 2013 that emphasizes the protection of children from information that could be deemed as damaging to their mental health and development. In the amendment to the Federal Law of Russian Federation no. 436-FZ, “propaganda” of non-traditional sexual relationships were classified as harmful, and while the law does not criminalize homosexuality directly, it has created a hostile environment for LGBT activism. The US and Europe have condemned Russia’s actions, but despite the domestic and international pushback, the Russian anti-LGBT propaganda law still stands.\n\nSexual activity between family members or close relatives is often considered incest, which is illegal in many jurisdictions, though what constitutes an \"incestuous relationship\" varies by jurisdiction, and may depend on the type of sexual activity and whether the relationship is one of consanguinity, affinity or other relationship, such as by adoption. In law, the proscribed sexual activity is usually limited to sexual intercourse, though terminology varies, and which in some jurisdictions is limited to penile-vaginal sexual intercourse. Incestuous sexual activity, as defined by each jurisdiction, is usually unlawful irrespective of the consent of the parties and irrespective of their age. This prohibition usually also extends to the marriage of people in the proscribed incestuous relationships.\n\nOne author argued that use of particular language devices and rhetoric in the legislation surrounding these laws manipulates the viewer to automatically deem such sexual acts to be immoral and criminal. In this view, the law is attempting to morally control society, which is not one of the purposes of the law. This means that people will condemn those who partake in familial sexual activities, even if all parties are consenting adults.\n\nAdultery is a crime in many countries, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Oman, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Sudan, and Yemen.\n\nCustom and tradition are the most frequently cited reasons for female genital mutilation (FGM). FGM is the removal of the genitals in cultures perpetuating male domination. Approximately 125 million girls and women are victims of female genital mutilation throughout the world. With the practices often being performed to exert control over the sexual behavior of girls and women or as a perceived aesthetic improvement to the appearance of their genitalia. The World Health Organization (WHO) is one of many health organizations that have campaigned against the procedures on behalf of human rights, stating that \"FGM has no health benefits\" and that it is \"a violation of the human rights of girls and women\" and \"reflects deep-rooted inequality between the sexes\".\n\nMost countries prohibit female genital mutilation, including prohibiting the procedure to be performed on its citizens and residents while outside their jurisdictions, and the New York State Penal Law lists female genital mutilation as a sexual offense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9275274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9275274", "title": "Small but significant and non-transitory increase in price", "text": "Small but significant and non-transitory increase in price\n\nIn competition law, before deciding whether companies have significant market power which would justify government intervention, the test of small but significant and non-transitory increase in price (SSNIP) is used to define the relevant market in a consistent way. It is an alternative to ad hoc determination of the relevant market by arguments about product similarity.\n\nThe SSNIP test is crucial in competition law cases accusing abuse of dominance and in approving or blocking mergers. Competition regulating authorities and other actuators of anti-trust law intend to prevent market failure caused by cartel, oligopoly, monopoly, or other forms of market dominance.\n\nIn 1982 the U.S. Department of Justice Merger Guidelines introduced the SSNIP test as a new method for defining markets and for measuring market power directly. In the EU it was used for the first time in the \"Nestlé/Perrier\" case in 1992 and has been officially recognized by the European Commission in its \"Commission's Notice for the Definition of the Relevant Market\" in 1997.\n\nThe original concept is believed to have been proposed first in 1959 by economist David Morris Adelman of the Aston University. Several other individuals formulated, apparently independently, similar conceptual approaches during the 1970s. The SSNIP approach was implemented by F. M. Scherer in three antitrust cases: in a 1972 Justice Department attempt to enjoin the merger of Associated Brewing Co. and G. W. Heileman Co., in 1975 during hearings on the U.S. government's monopolization case against IBM, and in a 1981 proceeding precipitated by Marathon Oil Company's effort to avert takeover by Mobil Oil Corporation. Scherer also proposed the basic concept underlying SSNIP along with limitations posed by what has come to be known as \"the cellophane fallacy\" in the second (1980) edition of his industrial organization textbook. Historical retrospectives suggest that early proponents were unaware of other individuals' conceptual proposals.\n\nThe SSNIP test seeks to identify the smallest relevant market within which a hypothetical monopolist or cartel could impose a profitable significant increase in price. The relevant market consists of a \"catalogue\" of goods and/or services which are considered substitutes by the customer. Such a catalogue is considered \"worth monopolising\" if should only one single supplier provided it, that supplier could profitably increase its price without its customers turning away and choosing other goods and services from other suppliers.\n\nThe application of the SSNIP test involves interviewing consumers regarding buying decisions and determining whether a hypothetical monopolist or cartel could profit from a price increase of 5% for at least one year (assuming that \"the terms of sale of all other products are held constant\"). If sufficient numbers of buyers are likely to switch to alternative products and the lost sales would make such price increase unprofitable, then the hypothetical market should not be considered a relevant market for the basis of litigation or regulation. Therefore, another, larger, basket of products is proposed for a hypothetical monopolist to control and the SSNIP test is performed on that relevant market.\n\nThe SSNIP test can be applied by estimating empirically the critical elasticity of demand. In the case of linear demand information on firms' price cost margins is sufficient for the calculation. If the pre-merger elasticity of demand exceeds the critical elasticity then the decline in sales arising from the price increase will be sufficiently large to render the price increase unprofitable and the products concerned do not constitute the relevant market.\n\nAn alternative method for applying the SSNIP test where demand elasticities cannot be estimated, involves estimating the \"critical loss.\" The critical loss is defined as the maximum sales loss that could be sustained as a result of the price increase without making the price increase unprofitable. Where the likely loss of sales to the hypothetical monopolist (cartel) is less than the Critical Loss, then a 5% price increase would be profitable and the market is defined.\n\nThe test consists of observing whether a small increase in price (in the range of 5 to 10 percent) would provoke a significant number of consumers to switch to another product (in fact, substitute product). In other words, it is designed to analyse whether that increase in price would be profitable or if, instead, it would just induce substitution, making it unprofitable.\n\nIn general, one uses databases from the firms which may include data on variables such as costs, prices, revenue or sales and over a sufficiently long period (generally over at least two years).\n\nIn economic terms, what the SSNIP test does is to calculate the residual elasticity of demand of the firm. That is, how a change in prices by the firm affects its own demand.\n\nAs an example, let's suppose the following situation for a firm:\nIn this case, the firm would make profits equal to 5000: formula_1.\n\nNow suppose the firm decides to increase its price by a 10 percent, which would imply that the new price would be 11 (10 percent increase). Suppose that the new situation facing the firm is therefore:\nIn this case, the firm would make profits equal to 4800: formula_1.\n\nAs can be seen, such an increase in prices would induce a certain substitution for our hypothetical firm, in fact, 200 units less will be sold. This may be so because some consumers have started to buy a substitute product, the same consumers have bought a smaller quantity of the product given its price increase or maybe because they have stopped from buying that type of product.\n\nIf we want to know whether such price increase has been profitable, we should solve the following equation:<br>\nformula_3\n\nIn our example, the increase in price produces too much consumer substitution which is not compensated by the increase in price nor the reduction in costs. Overall, the firm would make less profits (4800 compared to 5000). In other words, there are other substitute products that should be included in the relevant market and the product of the firm does not constitute by itself a separate relevant market. The \"market\" formed by this only product is not \"worth monopolising\" as an increase in prices would not be profitable. The investigation should continue by including new products which we may guess are substitutes of the one under investigation.\n\nWe already know that the previous product is not by itself a relevant market because there do exist other substitute products. Lets suppose that the previous firm (A) tells us that it considers as competitors the products of B and C. In this case, in the second phase we should include these products to our analysis and repeat the exercise.\n\nThe situation can be described as follows:\nGiven that we want to know if products A, B and C constitute a relevant market, the exercise would consist in supposing that an hypothetical monopolist X would control all three products. In that case, the monopolist would make profits of:<br>\nformula_4\n\nNow suppose that monopolist X decides to increase the price of product A, maintaining the price of B and C constant. Suppose that a 10 percent increase in the price of A provokes the following situation:\nThis means that the price increase of A would provoke that 200 units less of A be sold and instead, 100 more units of B and C will be sold respectively. Given that our hypothetical monopolist controls all three products, its profits will be:<br>\nformula_5\n\nAs can be seen, the monopolist controlling A, B and C would profitably increase the price of A by 10 percent, in other words, these three products do constitute a market \"worth monopolising\" and therefore constitutes a relevant market. This result is because X controls all three products which are the only substitutes of A. Thus, X knows that even if its increase in price of A will generate some substitution, a significant share of these consumers will end up buying other products which he controls, therefore overall, his profits will not be reduced but rather increased.\n\nIf we had found that such an increase would not have been profitable, we should further include new products which we may imagine are substitutes in a third phase until we arrive at a situation in which such an increase in price would have been profitable, indicating that those products do constitute a relevant market.\n\nDespite its widespread usage, the SSNIP test is not without problems. Specifically:\n\n\nFurthermore, many economists have noted an important pitfall in the use of demand elasticities when inferring both the market power and the relevant market. The problem arises from the fact that economic theory predicts that any profit-maximizing firm will set its prices at a level where demand for its product is elastic. Therefore, when a monopolist sets its prices at a monopoly level it may happen that two products appear to be close substitutes whereas at competitive prices they are not. In other words, it may happen that using the SSNIP test one defines the relevant market too broadly, including products which are not substitutes.\n\nThis problem is known in the literature as the cellophane paradox after the celebrated Du Pont case. In this case, Du Pont (a cellophane producer) argued that cellophane was not a separate relevant market since it competed with flexible packaging materials such as aluminum foil, wax paper and polyethylene. The problem was that Du Pont, being the sole producer of cellophane, had set prices at the monopoly level, and it was at this level that consumers viewed those other products as substitutes. Instead, at the competitive level, consumers viewed cellophane as a unique relevant market (a small but significant increase in prices would not have them switching to goods like wax or the others). In the case, the US Supreme Court failed to recognise that a high own-price elasticity may mean that a firm is already exercising monopoly power.\n\n"}
{"id": "646170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646170", "title": "Stamp Act Congress", "text": "Stamp Act Congress\n\nThe Stamp Act Congress, or First Congress of the American Colonies, was a meeting held between October 7 and 25, 1765, in New York City, consisting of representatives from some of the British colonies in North America; it was the first gathering of elected representatives from several of the American colonies to devise a unified protest against new British taxation. Parliament had passed the Stamp Act, which required the use of specially stamped paper for legal documents, playing cards, calendars, newspapers and dice for virtually all business in the colonies, and was going into effect on November 1, 1765.\n\nThe Congress was organized in response to a circular letter distributed by the colonial legislature of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, and consisted of delegates from nine of the eighteen British colonies in North America. All nine of the attending delegations were from the Thirteen Colonies that eventually formed the United States of America. Although sentiment was strong in some of the other colonies to participate in the Congress, a number of royal governors took steps to prevent the colonial legislatures from meeting to select delegates.\n\nThe Congress met in the building now known as Federal Hall, and was held at a time of widespread protests in the colonies, some of which were violent, against the Stamp Act's implementation. The delegates discussed and united against the act, issuing a Declaration of Rights and Grievances in which they claimed that Parliament did not have the right to impose the tax because it did not include any representation from the colonies. Members of six of the nine delegations signed petitions addressed to Parliament and King George III objecting to the Act's provisions.\n\nThe extra-legal nature of the Congress caused alarm in Britain, but any discussion of the congress's propriety were overtaken by economic protests from British merchants whose business with the colonies suffered as a consequence of the protests and their associated non-importation of British products. These economic issues prompted the British Parliament to repeal the Stamp Act, but it passed the Declaratory Act the same day, to express its opinion on the basic constitutional issues raised by the colonists; it stated that Parliament could make laws binding the American colonies \"in all cases whatsoever.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the French and Indian War, the British Parliament sought to increase revenues from its overseas colonies, where the cost of stationing troops had become significant. Parliament first passed the Sugar and Currency Acts in 1764, specifically aimed at raising money for the Crown, through the tighter regulation of colonial trade. These acts had brought protests from colonial legislatures, but had skirted the idea of direct taxation by structuring their revenues as trade-related excise duties. Prime Minister George Grenville noted at the time of the Sugar Act's passage that a stamp tax might also be necessary, immediately raising concern and protest in the colonies.\n\nWith the Stamp Act of 1765, Parliament attempted to raise money through direct taxation on the colonies for the first time. The act required that all sorts of printed material carry a stamp (purchased from a government agent) to show that the tax had been paid. Use of the stamped paper was required for newspapers, books, court documents, commercial papers, land deeds, almanacs, dice, and playing cards. The revenue was to help finance the operations of the empire, including the cost of stationing troops in the colonies, without seeking revenue through the established colonial assemblies (a method that had a history of failure).\n\nIn June 1765, the Massachusetts Assembly drafted a letter, which was sent to the legislatures of \"the several Colonies on this Continent\" to \"consult together on the present circumstances of the colonies\". Nine colonies ultimately selected delegates to attend the congress: Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina. All of the delegates selected were members of their colonial legislative bodies.\n\nThe methods by which delegates were selected were in some cases unorthodox. In Delaware, then known as the \"Three Lower Counties\" of the Penn proprietors, assembly members held informal meetings in each of the three counties, in each case selecting the same three delegates. In New York, the assembly had been prorogued and was judged unlikely to be summoned by Lieutenant Governor Colden to consider the Massachusetts letter. The assembly's committee of correspondence, consisting of its New York City delegates, discussed the letter and decided under the circumstances to assume the authority to represent the colony. New Jersey's assembly politely declined to send delegates before adjourning in late June, but after political sentiment against the Stamp Act became more pronounced, Speaker Robert Ogden called an extra-legal assembly (since only the governor could officially call it into session) in late September that chose three delegates. Governor William Franklin was upset at this action, but took no action beyond protesting the unusual meeting. Maryland's assembly, prorogued because of a smallpox outbreak, was finally called into session by Governor Horatio Sharpe to consider the Massachusetts letter on September 23, and delegates were chosen.\nThe colonies that were not represented at the congress did not send delegates for a variety of reasons. The Virginia and Georgia assemblies were deliberately prevented from meeting by their governors. New Hampshire chose not to send delegates due to an ongoing financial crisis in the colony; by the time some assembly members sought to reconsider this decision, the assembly had adjourned and Governor Benning Wentworth refused to call it into session. North Carolina Lieutenant Governor William Tryon had prorogued the assembly for other reasons, and there was apparently no action taken to request a special session, despite public protests and opposition to the act by Speaker John Ashe. Nova Scotia (which then included present-day Prince Edward Island and New Brunswick) declined to send delegates, despite significant economic connections to Massachusetts, and a strong presence of expatriate New Englanders in its assembly. Dominated by financial interests connected to England, the assembly never even considered a protest resolution against the Stamp Act. Quebec, Newfoundland, and East and West Florida did not have colonial assemblies, and were not invited.\n\nWhen word of the pending congress reached London, the Lords of Trade were so disturbed that they wrote to the king that \"this is a matter of the utmost importance to the Kingdom and legislature of Great Britain... and proper only for the consideration of Parliament.\" Communications being slow, by the time Parliament was informed about its existence, the Stamp Act Congress was already in session. The trade commissioners also noted that \"this appears to us to be the first instance of any General Congress appointed by the Assemblies of the Colonies without the Authority of the Crown, a Measure which we Conceive of dangerous Tendency in itself\".\n\nDelegates began to arrive in New York in late September, and a preliminary meeting was held by four delegations on September 30; what was discussed then is not known. The first session of the Congress was held on October 7, in New York's City Hall (now known as Federal Hall). It elected Timothy Ruggles, a conservative Massachusetts delegate, as its chairman, narrowly rejecting James Otis, whom John Adams described as the soul of the body. John Cotton, the deputy secretary of the Massachusetts General Court, had been retained by the Massachusetts delegation to make a formal record, was chosen as the body's secretary and record keeper. The selection of Ruggles as a delegate had been engineered by Massachusetts Governor Francis Bernard in the hopes of limiting the effectiveness of the congress. His success in being elected chairman was due at least in part to the perception that Otis, a populist firebrand, \"might give their meeting an ill grace.\"\n\nThe formal sessions of the Stamp Act Congress were conducted behind closed doors, although some of its business may have been conducted in informal sessions held in coffeehouses and other establishments in the evenings. Lieutenant Governor Colden, unable to prevent the meeting, called it an \"illegal convention\", noting that \"[w]hatever possible pretences may be used for this meeting their real intentions may be dangerous.\" The delegates were clear that they were in fact loyal to the Crown. New York delegate Robert R. Livingston wrote that the Congress was designed to insure the unity of the British empire, for \"if I really wished to see America in a state of independence, I should desire as one of the most effectual means to that end that the stamp act should be inforced.\"\n\nLittle is known of the debates in congress. The official congressional journal, in an apparently deliberate move, only contains the barest details of official actions, and none of the participants kept private journals. As a result, accounts of the congress are based on fragmentary records from contemporary letters and publications. In addition to selecting officers, the first sessions examined the credentials of each of the delegations; despite the unorthodox methods by which some were chosen, no delegates were rejected. They also debated on how voting in the body should take place, eventually agreeing that each delegation would cast a single vote.\n\nThe early substantive debates centered around issues raised by the Stamp Act and the earlier Sugar Act. The delegates spent a significant amount of time discussing the differences between direct (\"internal\") taxation and the regulation of trade (or \"external taxation\"), and seeking formal justification of the idea that only the colonial assemblies had the right to levy internal taxes. Fairly early in the deliberations the delegates agreed to produce a statement of rights which would form the foundation for petitions the congress would submit to Parliament and the king. According to Delaware delegate Caesar Rodney, the drafting of this statement was made difficult by the desire to balance the colonists' rights with the royal prerogative and the acknowledged powers of Parliament.\n\nOn October 19, the delegates adopted the Declaration of Rights and Grievances, a document primarily intended for local political discussion. Over the next few days separate committees drafted three documents: an \"address\" to the king, a \"memorial\" to the House of Lords, and a \"petition\" to the House of Commons. Separate committees worked over the next few days to draft these, which were accepted after debate and revision by the delegates on October 22 and 23. When the issue of signing these documents was discussed on October 24, matters suddenly became more complicated. The delegations from Connecticut and South Carolina refused to sign the documents, citing their instructions specifically denying such power. New York's delegation also refused, citing the informality with which it had been selected. From the other six delegations, New Jersey's Robert Ogden and Massachusetts' Timothy Ruggles both refused to sign, sparking a heated argument. Ruggles eventually moved that no one sign the documents, and that they instead be sent unsigned to the colonial assemblies. James Otis pointed out that the Massachusetts assembly had authorized its delegation to sign any jointly agreed documents, and that Ruggles' suggestion undermined the purpose of the congress to present a united front. Although the other delegates from the six colonies did sign the petitions, Ruggles and Ogden did not, and both were called before their respective assemblies to justify their actions. Ruggles in his defense admitted that he was opposed to the substance of the documents, and Ogden argued weakly that he thought separate petitions would be more effective than a joint one. (Others noted that Parliament had already ignored such petitions.) Ruggles and Thomas McKean had an angry exchange over the matter, resulting in Ruggles challenging McKean to a duel. The duel did not take place, and Ruggles left New York early the next morning. The congress met again on October 25, at which time the petitions were signed, and arrangements were made for the transmission of some of the documents to England, and the making of copies for the non-participating colonies.\n\nThe Declaration of Rights contains fourteen statements. The first six lay groundwork, proclaiming loyalty to the crown, and asserting that, according to the Rights of Englishmen and the more general \"freedom of a people\", only representatives chosen by the colonists could levy taxes. Because Parliament did not have such representatives, it could not levy taxes. The seventh statement asserts that the Rights of Englishmen afford all colonists the right to trial by jury. The remaining statements protest the unconstitutionality of the Stamp Act, express the economic consequences act (which, among other things, would reduce trade to the detriment of English manufacturers), and reiterated the rights of the colonists to petition the crown and Parliament.\n\nThe petitions directed to the House of Lords and the king were written in flattering tones, gently stating the liberties the colonists had enjoyed as British subjects and hoping they would retain them. The petition to the Lords specifically acknowledged \"due Subordination to that August Body the British Parliament.\" In contrast, the petition addressed to the House of Commons was more detailed, advancing economic arguments against the Stamp Act and requesting the repeal of legislation creating a jury-less vice admiralty court at Halifax. It also reiterated the supremacy of Parliament.\n\nCopies of the petitions left New York on two ships, including one that had arrived during the Congress, carrying stamped paper. Lord Dartmouth, the colonial secretary, rejected the petition to the Lords, saying it was an inappropriate document. The House of Commons cited several reasons not to consider the petition, including: it had been submitted by an unconstitutional assembly; it denied Parliament's right to levy taxes; acceptance of the petition would constitute an admission that Parliament had erred. The weak Rockingham Ministry, laboring for support against political opponents, rallied merchant interests in opposition to the Stamp Act, and it was repealed primarily on the strength of economic arguments advanced by these interests on March 18, 1766. To address the constitutional issues raised by the North American protests, Parliament also passed the Declaratory Act, claiming the authority to legislate for the colonies \"in all cases whatsoever\".\n\nThis Congress is generally viewed as one of the first organized and coordinated political actions of the American Revolution, even though its participants were not at all interested in independence from Great Britain. Despite significant political differences and disagreements between the Thirteen Colonies, tensions occasioned by the harsh Parliamentary response to the 1773 Boston Tea Party prompted the calling of the First Continental Congress, which produced a united response to the Intolerable Acts of 1774. Colonies such as Quebec and Nova Scotia that had only moderate opposition to the Stamp Act continued to act moderately through the rising protests, and remained Loyal during the American Revolutionary War.\n\nMost of the official papers of the Congress have not survived. One copy of its journal, from the papers of Caesar Rodney, survives in the library at Rowan University in Glassboro, New Jersey, and a second exists in the Connecticut state archives. The Maryland copy of the journal, although the original is lost, was transcribed into its assembly's records and printed in 1766. Inconsistencies within and between these documents make it uncertain whether any is an accurate representation of the official journal (which was probably taken to Massachusetts and was not located by Weslager in his research).\n\nJacob Kollock was also selected to represent the Delaware counties, and is known to have traveled to New York; however, there is no record of his attendance at the Congress' official sessions. Joseph Fox, speaker of the Pennsylvania assembly, was also chosen as a delegate, but decided not to attend because conditions in Pennsylvania required his presence there. Samuel Adams is often mistakenly listed as a delegate, but he is not on the list of delegates.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3266003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3266003", "title": "Stern Electronics, Inc. v. Kaufman", "text": "Stern Electronics, Inc. v. Kaufman\n\nStern Electronics Inc. v. Kaufman, 669 F.2d 852 (2d Cir. 1982 ), was a case decided by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that ruled that a video game manufacturer, Stern Electronics, could copyright the images and sounds in a game, not just the underlying source code that produced them. The decision was one of the first to rule on the copyrightability of video games as an artistic work and one of a series of lawsuits in the early 1980s brought forth by video game manufacturers like Stern aimed at combatting the increasing number of knock-off video games on the market.\n\nIn 1981, Stern Electronics, an arcade video game manufacturer, obtained an exclusive license from Konami Industry Co., a Japanese game developer, to distribute Konami's game \"Scramble\" in North and South America. The game is a side-scrolling shooter in which the player controls a \"Jet\" aircraft and fires weapons at enemies, attempting to destroy as many as possible before running out of fuel or crashing into an obstacle. Stern began selling the game in the U.S. on March 17, 1981 and it quickly gained popularity, selling 10,000 units in its first two months on the U.S. market.\n\nIn April 1981, the defendant Omni Video Games, Inc. began selling a knock-off game called \"Scramble 2\" that bore substantial similarities to Konami's \"Scramble\" game.\n\nThe case was initially brought to trial in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (Stern Electronics, Inc. V. Kaufman 523 F.Supp. 635 (1981). The plaintiff, Stern, succeeded in showing probable success on the merits of its claim of copyright infringement and the court ruled they were entitled to injunctive relief. Both parties claimed common law trademark rights to the \"Scramble\" mark and moved to enjoin the other from using it. Omni had ordered and sold a small number of headboards (to be placed above the arcade game unit) bearing the mark in the months prior to Stern's release of the game and, based upon that fact, made a first use in commerce claim. \nThe court found that the defendants' first use of the mark was not in good faith and solely in anticipation of later imitating the audiovisual display of Stern's game, once Omni had developed their own \"Scramble 2\". Further, continued use of the mark by both parties could result in consumer confusion and economic harm to both parties to the lawsuit. Based on Stern's considerable investment in the development and marketing of the game and the large number of units already sold, the balance of hardships was determined to tip in Stern's favor and Omni was preliminarily enjoined from use of the mark.\n\nAnticipating that a unique, non-infringing code could be easily reverse-engineered to create a \"knock-off\" game that imitated the sounds and images of their game, Konami did not register a copyright of the underlying code of the game, but instead registered the game as an audiovisual work by submitting a video of the game in both \"play mode\" and \"attract mode\" to the U.S. Copyright Office.\n\nIn its appeal, Omni argued that Stern was entitled only to copyright protection of the underlying computer code of the game as a literary work and that the certificate of registration granted to Scramble as an audiovisual work by the U.S Copyright office was invalid. Valid copyright protection exists only in \"original works of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression.\" Omni argued that the audiovisual aspects of the game were neither original nor fixed. They argued that the sequence of images displayed were created by the underlying computer program and were not the original work of the game developer. Further, because the sequence of images varies based on the actions of the player, they contended that each play of the game produced a new, original audiovisual work, not a fixed copy of the registered work. The court rejected these arguments, stating that sufficient elements of the look and feel of the game remain fixed regardless of the individual player's actions. The court also found that a moment of originality did occur in the creation of the specific images (spaceships, fuel tanks, and the look of the background terrain) and sounds (missiles firing, explosions upon destroying enemy ships) present in the game and that the originality of these images was not completely dependent upon the underlying program, as many different underlying programs could have been written to generate the images and sounds the game creator had imagined.\n\nOmni appealed the trademark ruling by arguing that they did indeed have superior common law rights to the mark due to their first use of the mark. Neither party held a registered trademark. Omni's prior use claim was based upon the fact they had ordered a very limited number of headboards bearing the mark in December 1980. Only five of those headboards found their way to the market prior to Stern's release of \"Scramble\" in March 1981, affixed to game units featuring other Omni video games. The appellate court agreed with the lower court's ruling that it was likely \"the defendants contrived this usage of the mark solely for trademark maintenance purposes in anticipation of plaintiff's introduction of the 'Scramble' video game into the market\" and \"with the expectation that they would later imitate the audiovisual display [of 'Scramble']\" and therefore the defendants' first use of the trademark was not in good faith. The preliminary injunction was affirmed.\n\n\"Stern Electronics, Inc v. Kaufman\" was one in a series of lawsuits that resulted from the increase in \"knock-off\" video games in the early 1980s. Other manufacturers that brought forth lawsuits included Atari, Williams Electronics, Midway Manufacturing, and later, Capcom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42831470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42831470", "title": "TV Justice", "text": "TV Justice\n\nTV Justice is a monthly high-quality television show covering war crimes trials in Bosnia and Herzegovina produced by Balkan Investigative Reporting Network Bosnia and Herzegovina (BIRN BiH). TV Justice is part of BIRN BiH’s Justice Series Programme, which aims to increase understanding of and support for the work of local judicial institutions dealing with war crimes. Furthermore it aims to increase the transparency of the judicial system and thereby help towards the truth and reconciliation process of the region.\n\nTV Justice, a 30-minute television programme, was launched in January 2010. A couple of years earlier BIRN BiH had already expanded its Justice Series programme successfully to radio, and after establishing the monthly TV show, the programme has been able to reach an even larger audience. Episodes of TV Justice exceed the task of reporting war crimes by portraying all sorts of post-conflict issues and problems that Bosnia and its people face. The show reminds viewers of the importance of dealing with the past in BiH.\n\nTV Justice is provided in English and Bosnian online, and is distributed to television stations for broadcasting throughout the country, the region and internationally.\n\nTV Justice has had an important impact on the lives of individuals as well as for larger audiences. In May 2012, BIRN BiH became the first organization in the country to publicly address the issue of anonymization of the courts documents and other information material. BIRN BiH’s TV Justice Special, a two-hour debate on the issue, was the first step towards advocacy activities, which culminated in the organization's “Stop censorship about war crimes” campaign which was launched in June 2013. \nFurthermore, TV Justice has empowered victims of war crimes. The TV Justice episode about crimes committed in the detention camp in Dretelj featured a survivor who stated that without BIRN BiH’s TV magazine he would have not been aware of the possibility for legally pursuing reparation and damages for the suffering he went through. In addition, according to the vox populi research conducted in local communities all over Bosnia, TV Justice has aided in increasing understanding and trust in the judiciary. Many viewers have stated that BIRN BiH TV Justice is their primary source of information on war crimes related issues.\n\nSince the project was launched in 2009, BIRN BiH has produced objective television coverage of over 150 war crimes trials on the state level. A testimony to its success is the fact that the number of viewers of TV Justice has tripled since 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "4341294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341294", "title": "Transformational Government", "text": "Transformational Government\n\nTransformational Government is the use of computer-based information and communications technologies (ICT) to change the way governments work. The term is commonly used to describe a government reform strategy which attempts to radically change the way people understand government, especially those working within government. For example, it is often associated with a 'whole-of-government' viewpoint, which tries to foster cross-department collaboration and provide 'one-stop-shop' convenience in the delivery of services to citizens.\n\nThe term \"Transformational Government\" is usually used aspirationally, as denoting the 'highest' level of what e-government can achieve: \n\nDuring the last two decades, governments around the world have invested in ICT with the aim of increasing the quality and decreasing the cost of public services. But over that time, as even the least developed countries have moved to websites, e-services and e-Government strategies, it has become increasingly clear that e-Government has not delivered all the benefits that were hoped for it. One study found that 35% of e-government projects in developing countries resulted in total failures; and that 50% were partial failures.\n\nIn reaction to these poor outcomes, there has been a shift of perspective to 'Transformational Government', aiming beyond purely technical aspects of better enabling e-government processes towards addressing the cultural and organisational barriers which have hindered public service benefits realisation. Researchers have defined the rationale for Transformational Government as “the exploitation of e-government such that benefits can be realized”.\n\nIn 2010 the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) published a report which identified a wide range of common pitfalls which have hampered many governments in achieving significant impacts through their technology investments. However, OASIS also noted that:\n\nOASIS cites the UK and Australia as two of the leaders in this area:\n\nWithin the last decade, this new emphasis on a Transformational Government approach can be seen from a number of countries:\n\nThe early pioneering work by some governments is now being picked up and championed by a range of global organizations which offer support to governments in moving to a Transformational Government approach. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "12530675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12530675", "title": "Ultimate fact", "text": "Ultimate fact\n\nIn law, the ultimate fact is the conclusion (or conclusions) of factual evidence made by a jury after deliberation.\n\nOne common definition is \"in a trial, a conclusion of fact which is logically deduced from evidence...\" It is \"the conclusion arrived during a trial based on the evidentiary facts.\"\n\nAn example would be the conclusion that somebody was liable for negligence because he sped, drove over a double line, skidded and lost control of his car. The jury can make out the ultimate fact when a man enters his apartment, a woman screams from inside, and the police find the man inside the apartment with his gun in his hand standing over his dead wife, that he murdered her.\n\nA classic case, under New York law, is \"People v. Murphy\". In that case, the defendant was rebuffed by his drug dealer's girlfriend and her sister, he invaded their apartment, sought and found a hammer, and hit each of three females (the pregnant girlfriend, her sister and her niece) with the claw end of the hammer, several times, on their heads. The ultimate fact decided by the jury was that he intended to kill all three of them. (He only succeeding in killing the girlfriend. The boyfriend returned from an overnight incarceration, rescuing the survivors. Their baby was delivered by caesarean section, the sister and her daughter also survived.)\n\n"}
{"id": "204304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204304", "title": "Unicameralism", "text": "Unicameralism\n\nIn government, unicameralism (Latin , one + , chamber) is the practice of having one legislative or parliamentary chamber. Thus, a \"unicameral parliament\" or \"unicameral legislature\" is a legislature which consists of one chamber or house.\n\nUnicameral legislatures exist when there is no widely perceived need for multicameralism. Many multicameral legislatures were created to give separate voices to different sectors of society. Multiple chambers allowed for guaranteed representation of different social classes (as in the Parliament of the United Kingdom or the French States-General), ethnic or regional interests, or subunits of a federation. Where these factors are unimportant, in unitary states with limited regional autonomy, unicameralism often prevails. Sometimes, as in New Zealand and Denmark, this comes about through the abolition of one of the two chambers, or, as in Sweden, through the merger of the two chambers into a single one, while in others a second chamber has never existed.\n\nUnicameral legislatures are also common in official Communist states such as the People's Republic of China and Cuba. Similarly, many formerly Communist states, such as Ukraine, Moldova and Serbia, have retained their unicameral legislatures, though others, such as Romania and Poland, adopted bicameral legislatures. Both the former Russian SFSR and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) were bicameral. The two chambers were the Soviet of Nationalities and the Soviet of the Union. The Russian Federation retained bicameralism after the dissolution of the USSR and the transition from existing socialism to capitalism.\n\nThe principal advantage of a unicameral system is more efficient lawmaking, as the legislative process is much simpler and there is no possibility of deadlock. Proponents of unicameralism have also argued that it reduces costs, even if the number of legislators stay the same, since there are fewer institutions to maintain and support it.\n\nThe main weakness of a unicameral system can be seen as the lack of restraint on the majority, particularly noticeable in parliamentary systems where the leaders of the parliamentary majority also dominate the executive. There is also the risk that important sectors of society may not be adequately represented.\n\nApproximately half of the world's sovereign states are currently unicameral, including both the most populous (the People's Republic of China) and the least populous (the Vatican City).\n\nMany subnational entities have unicameral legislatures. These include the state of Nebraska and territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands in the United States, the Chinese Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau, the Australian state of Queensland as well as the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, a majority of the provinces of Argentina, all of the provinces and territories in Canada, all of the German Bundesländer, all of the Regions of Italy, all of the Spanish Autonomous Communities, both the Autonomous Regions of Portugal, most of the States of India and all of the States of Brazil.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the devolved Scottish Parliament, National Assembly for Wales, London Assembly, and Northern Ireland Assembly are also unicameral.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWithin U.S. states, Nebraska is currently the only state with a unicameral legislature; after a statewide vote, it changed from bicameral to unicameral in 1937. A 2018 study found that efforts to adopt unicameralism in Ohio and Missouri failed due to rural opposition. There was a fear in rural communities that unicameralism would diminish their influence in state government.\n\nLocal government legislatures of counties, cities, or other political subdivisions within states are usually unicameral and have limited lawmaking powers compared to their state and federal counterparts.\n\nIn 1999, Governor Jesse Ventura proposed converting the Minnesota Legislature into a single unicameral chamber. Although debated, the idea was never adopted.\n\nIn a non-binding referendum held on July 10, 2004, voters in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico approved changing its Legislative Assembly to a unicameral body by 456,267 votes in favor (83.7%) versus 88,720 against (16.3%). If both the territory's House of Representatives and Senate had approved by a vote the specific amendments to the Puerto Rico Constitution that are required for the change to a unicameral legislature, another referendum would have been held in the territory to approve such amendments. If those constitutional changes had been approved, Puerto Rico could have switched to a unicameral legislature as early as 2015.\n\nOn June 9, 2009, the Maine House of Representatives voted to form a unicameral legislature, but the measure did not pass the Senate.\n\nBecause of legislative gridlock in 2009, former Congressman Rick Lazio, a prospective candidate for governor, has proposed that New York adopt unicameralism.\n\nThe United States as a whole was subject to a unicameral Congress during the years 1781–1788, when the Articles of Confederation were in effect.\n\nThough the current Congress of the Philippines is bicameral, the country experienced unicameralism in 1898 and 1899 during the First Philippine Republic, from 1935 to 1941 during the Commonwealth Era and from 1943 to 1944 during the Japanese occupation. Under the 1973 Constitution, the legislative body was called Batasang Pambansa, which functioned also a unicameral legislature within a semi-presidential system form of government until 1986.\n\nThe ongoing process of amending or revising the current Constitution and form of government is popularly known as Charter Change. A shift to a unicameral parliament was included in the proposals of the constitutional commission created by former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. Unlike in the United States, senators in the Senate of the Philippines are elected not per district and state but nationally; the Philippines is a unitary state. The Philippine government's decision-making process, relative to the United States, is more rigid, highly centralised, much slower and susceptible to political gridlock. As a result, the trend for unicameralism as well as other political system reforms are more contentious in the Philippines.\n\nWhile Congress is bicameral, all local legislatures are unicameral: the ARMM Regional Legislative Assembly, the Sangguniang Panlalawigan (Provincial Boards), Sangguniang Panlungsod (City Councils), Sangguniang Bayan (Municipal Councils), Sangguniang Barangay (Barangay Councils) and the Sangguniang Kabataan (Youth Councils).\n"}
{"id": "33556133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33556133", "title": "Weapons Act 1990", "text": "Weapons Act 1990\n\nThe Weapons Act 1990 is an Act of the Parliament of Queensland.\n\nThis Act provides for an administrative scheme to regulate the possession, use and trade of various weapons including firearms, martial arts weapons, particular knives, body armour and crossbows. The Act is administered by the Weapons Licensing Branch of the Queensland Police Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "53517587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53517587", "title": "White Card", "text": "White Card\n\nA White Card (also known as a General Construction Induction Card) is a mandatory work card required in Australia to order to work on a construction site. It is gained by completing a face-to-face or online government mandated course through a registered training organisation. The unit of competency required is \"CPCCOHS1001A\" – Work Safely In The Construction Industry. White Card Australia People who need a White Card include those not directly involved in building, such as supervisors, site managers, and people who routinely enter construction sites. White Cards become void if no construction work is carried out in two consecutive years or more.This White Card Course will replace a range of state systems operating different coloured cards (Blue, Green, Red) and regulatory bodies. Every State in Australia now operate with the Nationally Recognized White Card. The White Card Online can be issued in Western Australia and Queensland. However this White Card is mutually recognized and accepted in all states of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "54283999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54283999", "title": "William Black (judge)", "text": "William Black (judge)\n\nWilliam Bullick Black KC (22 September 1879 – 11 March 1967) was a barrister and judge of the Supreme Court of Ireland.\n\nBlack's father, James, was a Methodist minister from Holywood, County Down. He was educated at Methodist College Belfast and then Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nBlack attended the King's Inns, Dublin and won a number of debating and oratorical prizes before he was called to the bar in 1901.\n\nBlack was a campaigner for Sinn Féin before supporting Fianna Fáil.\n\nIn 1942 he was made a Supreme Court of Ireland judge and served until 1951. He dissented against the ruling in the Corcoran case (1950) and also the 1951 Tilson case that enforced the Ne Temere decree.\n\nThe Council of Europe elected Black as Ireland's representative in the European Commission of Human Rights in 1954.\n\nHe was married to Julia O'Connor.\n"}
{"id": "5015445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5015445", "title": "Work-product doctrine", "text": "Work-product doctrine\n\nIn American civil procedure, the work-product doctrine protects materials prepared in anticipation of litigation from discovery by opposing counsel. It is also known as the work-product rule, the work-product immunity, and the work-product exception. It is sometimes mistakenly called the work-product privilege. This doctrine does not apply in other countries, where such communications are not protected, but where the legal discovery process itself is much more limited.\n\nUnder the work-product doctrine, \"tangible material or its intangible equivalent\" that is collected or prepared in anticipation of litigation is not discoverable. \n\nThe work-product doctrine is more inclusive than attorney–client privilege. Unlike the attorney–client privilege, which includes only communications between an attorney and the client, work product includes materials prepared by persons other than the attorney him/herself: The materials may have been prepared by anybody as long as they were prepared with an eye towards the realistic possibility of impending litigation. Additionally, it includes materials collected for the attorney such as interrogatories, signed statements, other information acquired for the prosecution or defense of a case.\n\nDespite its inclusiveness, the work-product doctrine is less powerful than the attorney-client privilege, and therefore may be overcome by a showing of necessity. An example of a possible exception would be a witness being unavailable due to death or living in a remote/hostile nation. \n\nEven if an exception to the work-product doctrine is made, the court would still protect privileged actions by an attorney, by redacting the privileged part of the document. \"Memoranda, briefs, communications ... other writings prepared by counsel for his/her own use in prosecuting the client's case ... mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories\" are never discoverable by an opposing party.\n\nThe work-product doctrine originated in the 1947 case of \"Hickman v. Taylor\", in which the Supreme Court affirmed a United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit decision which excluded from discovery of oral and written statements made by witnesses to a defendant's attorney. The Supreme Court, acting at the recommendation of the Advisory Committee of the Judicial Conference, later enshrined this doctrine formally in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as Rule 26(b)(3).\n\n"}
{"id": "26147950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26147950", "title": "World Trademark Review", "text": "World Trademark Review\n\nWorld Trademark Review is a website and magazine covering the commercial and international practice of trademark law. Subscribers receive a print magazine once every other month and a daily email newsletter featuring news stories, feature articles and legal updates from a panel of trademark experts.\n\nThe website and magazine are published by Globe Business Publishing, an independent specialist legal publisher based in London, UK.\n\n\"World Trademark Review\" also runs the \"WTR\" Industry Awards programme. The awards recognize the best trademark teams and individuals. Past winners include employees of Google, The Coca-Cola Company, Microsoft, Diageo, Gucci and Intel.\n\n\"World Trademark Review\" is one of the publications produced by The IP Media Group, which was formed in 2008. The group also publishes Intellectual Asset Management magazine, organizes the IP Business Congress and runs the IP Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
