{"id": "92870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92870", "title": "Adlet", "text": "Adlet\n\nThe Adlet (or Erqigdlet) are a race of creatures in the Inuit mythology of Greenland, as well as the Labrador and Hudson Bay coasts. While the word refers to inland native American tribes, it also denotes a humanoid dog-legged tribe. The lower part of the body of the canine Adlet is like that of a dog and their upper part is like a man's. All Adlet run quickly, and their encounters with men usually end with man as the victor.\n\nIn Inuit lore, they are often portrayed as in conflict with humans, and are supposed to be taller than Inuit and white people. In some stories they are cannibals. Inuit from Labrador use the term Adlet, tribes west of the Hudson Bay use the word Erqigdlit. The monstrous race begotten by the Adlet was identified with inland native Americans by the Labrador and Hudson Bay tribes; Inuit from Greenland and Baffin Land, which had no native American neighbors, use the term to refer to the half human, half canine creatures.\n\nAn etymology of the word is proposed by H. Newell Wardle: \"adlet\" might come from \"ad\", \"below,\" and thus denote \"those below.\" Alternatively, he argues, it might come from the stem \"agdlak\", \"striped, streaked,\" thus \"the striped ones,\" in reference to American Indians who lived to the west and painted their faces. \"Erqigdlet\" might be a derogatory term denoting the same people. \"Atlat\" means \"others,\" denoting American Indians from the Inuit perspective, though Newell Wardle considers this possibility secondary and deriving from phonetic similarity.\n\nFranz Boas, an ethnologist who recorded many Inuit stories, gives an account of the origin of the Adlet; he had heard the story in Baffin Land, specifically in Cumberland Sound from an Inuit named Pakaq. His transcription, a translation by H. Rink, and an explanation (by Boas) were published in \"The Journal of American Folklore\" in 1889. The Inuit of Greenland, according to Rink, tell the same story as those in Baffin Land. The story is often referred to as \"The Girl and the Dogs\" on the west coast of Greenland; on the east coast of Greenland it is known as \"The Origin of the Qavdlunait and Irqigdlit\" (that is, Europeans and Indians).\n\nA woman, Niviarsiang (\"the girl\"), lives with her father, Savirqong, but will not marry, and hence is also called Uinigumissuitung (\"she who wouldn't take a husband\"). After rejecting all her suitors, she marries a dog, Ijirqang, with white and red spots. Of their ten children, five are dogs and the others are Adlet, with dog's bodies for their lower half and man's bodies for their upper half. Since Ijirqang does not go hunting and the children are very hungry, it falls to Savirqong to provide for the noisy household. At last he puts them into a boat and carries them off to a small island, telling Ijirqang to come and get meat daily. Niviarsiang hangs a pair of boots around his neck and he swims ashore, but Savirqong, instead of giving him meat, puts stones in the boots and Ijirqang drowns. In revenge, Niviarsiang sends the young dogs over to gnaw off her father's feet and hands. He, in return kicks her overboard when she happens to be in his boat, and when she hangs on the gunwale he cuts off her fingers, which, when they fall in the ocean, turn into whales and seals.\n\nSince Niviarsiang is scared her father might kill the Adlet, she sends them inland, and from them a numerous people springs. The young dogs she sends across the ocean in a makeshift boat, and arriving beyond the sea they became the Europeans' ancestors.\n\nOne interpretation of the phenomenon of the Adlet (and the theme of the \"Dog Husband\") sees the difference between the dog-like children and the other, the Adlet, as crucial. The dogs are sent overseas and will return as white Europeans to bring things favorable to the Inuit, whereas the Adlet, \"swift runners of an aggressive disposition,\" become a kind of inland spirit, to be kept at bay. Thus, the \"Dog Husband\" myth carries the value of a cargo cult: \"by offering their [sexual] favors to the dog-like Whites the Inuit daughters serve as mediators in obtaining their desirable goods.\" A reading of the account as a \"Whaler myth,\" in a culture in which the Inuit were economically dependent on the mechanically superior products supplied by the European whalers, the story transforms material dependence on the white whaler into a reciprocal relationship, whereby the European comes back to repay his mother.\n\nFranz Boas and Hinrich Rink offer two options for the occurrence of a legend explaining the origin of whites. Either the tradition dates back to when the Inuit first made contact with Europeans (which they consider highly unlikely), or, more likely, it is the adaptation of an already existing tradition, modified to account for the coming of the Europeans. Signe Rink proposes a similar explanation in a hypothetical historical narrative that also takes linguistic evidence into account.\n\nThe \"Dog Husband\" theme is paralleled in other tribal mythologies. The Dakelh (formerly known as the \"Carrier tribe\"), the indigenous people of the inland of British Columbia, tell a number of similar stories. In one of those stories, a woman suspects she is being violated nightly, and throws a little bag of vermilion paint on the violator; the next day, she identifies him as a big dog, and later gives birth to four dogs. Father Morice, writing about this and other stories he had been told by the Carrier people, posits that there might be \"a sort of national tradition among the hyperborean races of America, since even the Eskimo have a story which is evidently the equivalent of it,\" proceeding to summarize the account as given by Franz Boas in \"The Central Eskimo\" (1888). Similar stories (both about the Adlet and the woman who marries a dog) are told on the Siberian side of the Bering Strait, among the Chukchi.\n\nA number of stories containing Adlet were written down by ethnographers in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\n\nMany tales were told by the \"Smith Sound Eskimo,\" an Inuit from Smith Sound who was in New York City in the winter of 1897-1898, and published by A.L. Kroeber for the \"Journal of American Folklore\". Two Tornits (another fabulous race from Inuit lore) find themselves among savage and cannibalistic Adlet. They sneak out at night and as they are leaving they cut the thongs on the Adlet's sledges that fasten the crossbars to the runners. The dogs start barking, but as the Adlet mount their sledges the runners fall off and the Tornit get away. The same Smith Sound Eskimo also told a variant of the Adlet story related by Boas in \"The Central Eskimo.\" In this version, the Tornit are the woman's offspring as well, but Kroeber remarks that they are \"ordinarily not connected with this tale.\" Other stories told by the Smith Sound Eskimo, such as \"The Origin of the Narwhal,\" also contain murderous Adlet.\n\nThe Inuit of Point Barrow, Alaska, tell of a dog named Aselu who was tied to a stick. He set himself free by biting through the stick, then went inside, where he had intercourse with a woman. She consequently gave birth to men and dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "11404292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11404292", "title": "Alevi history", "text": "Alevi history\n\nThe History of the Shī‘ah Imāmī Alevī Ṭarīqah or The History of the Alevism is that of a community of Shia Muslims of Anatolia and neighbouring regions.\n\nDuring the great Turkish expansion from Central Asia into Iran and Anatolia in the Seljuk period (11-12th centuries), Turkmen nomad tribes accepted a Sufi and pro-Ali form of Islam that co-existed with some of their pre-Islamic customs. These tribes dominated central and eastern Anatolia for centuries with their religious warriors \"(ghazi)\" spearheading the drive against Byzantines and Slavs. Many Armenians converted to Turkmen type Islam while retaining some Christian practices, and some observers believe that heterodox Armenian Christianity exerted a significant influence on the beliefs of the extremist Shi`ite sects.\n\nSufism stressed esoteric, allegoric and multiple interpretations of scripture combined to intuitive faith and a search for ecstatic experiences, and was spread by wandering dervishes believed to possess \"\"bereket\" (baraqat - spiritual power)\" and \"\"keramet\" (qaramat - miraculous powers)\" due to their special nearness to God. Dervish founders of \"\"tariqat\" (Sufi orders)\" were revered as Saints \"(Wali)\" and called dede, baba, pir, or shaykh, and their tombs were serving as pilgrimage centres.\n\nFollowing the Seljuks, the Ottomans established their power in western Anatolia and gradually incorporated Eastern Anatolia into their empire. After Timur's victory over the Ottomans in the 15th century, the Ottoman hold on Eastern Anatolia weakened for a while, with autonomous Shi'ite Turkmen states \"(Ak Koyunlu, and Kara Koyunlu)\" fighting each other for hegemony.\n\nThe Bektashiyyah is a Shia Sufi order founded in the 13th century by Haji Bektash Veli, a dervish who escaped Central Asia and found refuge with the Seljuks in Anatolia at the time of the Mongol invasions (1219–23). This order gained a great following in rural areas and it later developed in two branches: the Celebi clan, who claimed to be physical descendants of Hajji Bektash Wali, were called \"\"Bel evlâdları\" (children of the loins),\" and became the hereditary spiritual leaders of the rural Alevis; and the Babagan, those faithful to the path \"\"Yol evlâdları\" (children of the path)\" who dominated the official Bektashi Sufi order with its elected leadership.\n\nLater, the Bektashiyyah became the order of the Janissary special troops, tolerated by the Ottomans as its monasteries and pilgrimage centres could be manipulated to control its Alevi followers.\n\nIn the early 16th century, a militant \"ghulat\" Shia order emerged, called \"Kızılbaş\" or \"Redheads\" after their distinctive headgear. Shah Isma'il was a hereditary leader of the Safaviyya Sufi order centered in Ardabil who led his (predominantly Azeri) followers in conquering Persia. The result was the founding of the Safavid Dynasty, and the conversion of Iran to Shiism. Shah Ismail's personal religious views are reflected in his Turkish-language Sufi poetry of a \"ghulat\" nature (he claimed divinity), of which selections came to be included in Alevi scriptural compilations, the \"Buyruks\". The religion of the Iranian populace, however, fell under the domination of Shia Arab clerics who downplayed the \"ghulat\" beliefs of the Turkish warrior class.\n\nAfter the foundation of the Safavid Persian state, the new Turkmen Shahs gradually rid themselves of their tribal and sectarian origins in their bid to build a unified Iranian state. Twelver Shiism was proclaimed state religion, with a special role for the Safavi Shahs as descendants of alleged Ali and the Imams. Their supposed ancestry is not accepted by most shia Muslims today. This state religion developed into a very different system to the Alevi faith of their Kizilbash troops. Arab Twelver theologians were recruited from Jabal Amil in Lebanon and from Bahrain, and most Iranians were forcibly converted to Twelver Shiism. The Kizilbash tribal troops were gradually disbanded in favour of a regular Iranian slave army.\n\nThe Qizilbash (red-heads) were Turkoman tribes who adhered to the Safavid Sufi Order, whose Sheikhs claimed descent from Ali. Under Ismā`il (d. 1524) they became dominant in Eastern Anatolia and conquered Azerbaijan with its capital Tabriz, where Ismā`il named himself Shah in 1501 and went on to conquer all of Iran. His missionaries spread a message of revolt against the Sunni Ottomans in Anatolia, claiming that Ismā`il was the awaited \"\"mahdi\" (massiah),\" and Anatolia became the scene of protracted warfare between Ottomans and Safavids.\n\nThe Ottomans had accepted Sunni Islam in the 13th century as a means to unifying their empire, and later proclaimed themselves its defenders against the Safavid Shia state and related heretical sects. This created a gap between the Sunni Ottoman ruling elite and the Alevi Anatolian population. Anatolia became a battlefield between Safavids and Ottomans, each determined to include it in their Empire.\n\nIsmail instigated a series of revolts culminating in a general Anatolian uprising against the Ottomans, whose Sultan Bayezid II mounted a major expedition 1502-1503 which pushed the Safavids and many of their Turkmen followers into Iran.\n\nThe successor of Bayezid II, Sultan Selim I \"The Grim\", launched a vigorous campaign into eastern Anatolia, utilising a religious edict condemning Alevis as apostates to massacre many. In the summer of 1514 Selim I launched another offensive and won the major battle of Chaldiran on the eastern side of the Euphrates, convincing the Safavids to avoid open conflict with the Ottomans for the next century, and enabling him to overcome the last independent Turkmen dynasties in eastern Anatolia in 1515-1517.\n\nSuleyman the magnificent also ruthlessly suppressed Safavid supporters in eastern Anatolia leading three campaigns into northwest Iran. Finally in 1555 the peace of Amasya recognised Ottoman rule over Iraq and Eastern Anatolia and Iranian rule over Azerbaijan and Caucasia.\n\nThe Kizilbash in Anatolia were now militarily, politically and religiously separated from their source in Iran, retreated to isolated rural areas and turned inward, developing their unique structures and doctrines. Following the severe persecution and massacres by the Ottomans which went on into the 18th century, Alevis went underground using taqiya, religious dissimulation permitted by all Shi`a groups, to conceal their faith (pretending to be Sunnis) and survive in a hostile environment.\n\nKizilbash and Bektashis shared common religious beliefs and practices becoming intermingled as Alevis in spite of many local variations. Isolated from both the Sunni Ottomans and the Twelver Shi`a Safavids, Alevis developed traditions, practices, and doctrines by the early 17th century which marked them as a closed autonomous religious community. As a result of the immense pressures to conform to Sunni Islam, Alevis developed a tradition of opposition to all forms of external religion.\n\nMeanwhile, the rulers of the Ottoman Empire gradually distanced themselves from their nomadic Turkic heritage, ultimately (during the thirteenth century) adopting the Sunni Islam of their Mediterranean subjects. During the long rivalry with Safavid Qizilbash tribes fought for local control of the Anatolian highlands, and were responsible for several 15th and 16th century uprisings against the Ottomans. The 1555 Peace of Amasya found them on the \"wrong\" side of the Ottoman / Iranian border, as subjects of an Ottoman court which viewed them with suspicion. Massacres of Qizilbash occurred.\n\nThe career of Pir Sultan Abdal takes place in this context. Apparently a 16th-century folk musician from Sivas, Pir Sultan Abdal was known for playing a stringed instrument called the \"bağlama\" and singing songs critical of his Ottoman governors, in defense of the rights of the Anatolian peasantry. Hanged for fomenting rebellion, he became another beloved figure in Alevi folklore and is now often invoked as a symbol of Alevism's leftist aspect. He is also preferred by Alevi Kurds, who appreciate his protest against the Turkish establishment, over Haji Bektash Veli (whom they identify with the Turks).\n\nAfter the Kızılbaş lost their power in Anatolia, they are assumed to have merged into the Anatolian Alevis. Kurdish Alevis are sometimes still called Kızılbaş. Even as far east as Afghanistan and Pakistan, many Shias have \"Qizilbash\" as their family names.\n\nUnder Ottoman rule the Alevis emerged as an endogamous ethnic group, primarily Turkish-speaking but also including Kurdish communities, concentrated in rural Anatolia. (One writer speculates that Dersim's Kurds converted to Alevism from another \"ghulat\" sect.) Led by hereditary \"dedes,\" and sometimes by \"Bektashi dervishes,\" they practiced \"\"taqiyya\" (dissimulation, secrecy)\" about their religion.\n\nBektashi identity may have been adopted to this end, since the Bektashis were technically Sunni and tolerated by the court. After the 1826 disbanding of the Janissary Corps, the now-proscribed Bektashi order began to meet underground, like the Alevis. Adherents of the two groups blurred together to some extent. In the years before and during World War I the Çelebi family, one of two leadership groups associated with the shrine of Haji Bektash, attempted to extend its authority to the \"village Bektashi\" (Alevi) \"dede\"s, whose own hierarchy was in disarray. Some Alevi groups accepted this Bektashi authority, while others did not.\n\nRural Alevis were marginalised and discriminated against in the Ottoman Empire, although the official Bektashiya order enjoyed a privileged role through its close association with the Janissary professional military corps. In 1826 Sultan Mahmud II massacred the Janissaries and suppressed the Bektashi order. Yet Bektashi secret circles remained extremely active, Bektashis becoming progressive, anticlerical, and liberal, viewed suspiciously by the authorities and cooperating with others hostile to the establishment such as Freemasons and Young Turks. Until 1925 it was estimated that 10 to 20 percent of Turkey's adult male population were still members of the Bektashiya.\n\nKemalism turned Alevis into legally equal citizens, and its reforms had a radical impact on them as roads were built through their formerly isolated areas, compulsory schooling was introduced, and communications improved, drawing them out of their marginalisation into active engagement in social and political life and into deeper contact with the outside world and the state centre. The new Turkish Republic fulfilled many Alevi expectations, enabling them to identify with and support its nation-building measures - the Alevis still see themselves as the protectors of Kemalism and democracy in Turkey.\n\nIn his drive for secularization Atatürk later (1925) destroyed most religious frameworks, Sunni as well as Alevi, closing down the orders and confiscating their monasteries. Although driven underground, the orders continued to enjoy popularity in secret.\n\nAlevis are proud of their cooperation with Ataturk, and the fact that the Çelebi and Dedebaba of the Hacıbektaş monastery had supported him. Alevis were his faithful allies in the war of independence, in the setting up of the modern Turkish secular nationalist state, and in the destruction of Ottomanism. The early Kemalist republic is regarded as the ideal state in which the Alevis were fairly represented proportionately to their percentage of the total population in the National Assembly.\n\nAlevis saw Ataturk as Mahdi \"(Messiah),\" a Saviour, a divine emanation following Ali and Hajji Bektash Wali, sent to save them from the Sunni Ottoman yoke, who turned Alevi ideals into state practice, and his portrait is hung up beside Ali's in many Alevi homes. Ataturk on his part saw the Alevis as allies in his struggle against the traditional Ottoman elite and for secularism and Turkish nationalism. He selectively included Alevi cultural markers in his construct of the new Turkish national collective identity. However, to ensure national unity, the unique Alevi identity was subordinated to the general Anatolian-Turkish national identity.\n\nHowever, the stigma of Alevism remained even as the younger generation tried to adapt itself to the secular Turkish identity. Alevis found that they still faced discrimination in employment and education, and again turned to taqiya for stigma management, adapting to Sunni ways in order to get a share of the scarce resources. Many concealed that they were Alevi, visited the mosques, and kept Ramadan. Education and migration were seen as the gateway to social upward mobility, and from 1960s on a new Alevi middle class appeared.\n\nSecularization diminished traditional threats to Alevi existence transforming Turkish society into a less Alevi-hostile community. The downplay of religion in public life and the Westernization of the ruling elite tended to turn Alevism into just one of several cultural and folklorist themes in Turkish nationalism. While still trying to maintain their ethnic identity, Alevis became increasingly secularized and neglected their traditional institutions. However, the wall of Sunni prejudice to the historically marginalized Alevi was not easily overcome, and Alevis remained to some extent the object of suspicion, in their turn remaining somewhat sceptical of the central state and its institutions.\n\nAs the existential danger receded and the community opened up to the outside world, solidarity ties loosened. ritual and ceremony lost some of their meaning and the spiritual leadership gradually lost its authority. This change in Alevi internal structures was accelerated by the massive migration into the cities, where Alevis underwent a process of secularization and modernization which broke traditional hereditary ties to the religious hierarchy. Religion lost its relevancy and even intermarriage was practiced by some. A new generation grew up in the 1960s that had not passed through initiation and was not familiar with the Alevi \"Way\" (yol).\n\nUnder The Adnan Menderes Government Administration, the Hacıbektaş centre was restored and reopened in 1964 as a museum, with annual celebrations in August for tourists in memory of the Saint.\n\nTurkish state politics after the military takeover encouraged Sunni-orthodox and nationalist unity ideology. Sunni Sufi orders such as the Naqshbandi, Suleimanci, and Nurcu \"(Hizmet/Servis movement)\" became more visible, and Sunni propaganda disseminated by the government stated that Alevis were actually Sunnis with some divergent customs, negating the uniqueness of Alevism and trying to integrate it in state Sunnism. Whilst accepting that Alevism has important Turkish elements, the authorities tried to Sunnify Alevism, initiating a state policy of assimilation and Sunnification. Infrastructure improvements in Alevi villages were made conditional on compliance with mosque construction and the participation of all Alevi children in Sunni religious instruction.\n\nWhen Sunni fundamentalism appeared in the 1970s, many Alevis reacted by reinterpreting Alevism in socialist and Marxist idiom that seemed to have an affinity to Alevi ideals. There was a generation gap in Alevism: the older generation remained Kemalist and hoped for the official reopening of the Bektashi order whilst the young generation became very politicized as they came in contact with revolutionary thought in universities, high schools, and trade unions. They claimed that the old forms were outdated and that Alevis must work for a radical restructuring of society. They saw all \"reactionary\" elements which tried to assimilate them into mainstream Sunni life as enemies, and joined extreme leftist parties, reinterpreting historical opposition to Sunnism in terms of class struggle and continuing the traditional Alevi role of opposition to the state. Some leftist Alevi activists also turned against their own religious hierarchy, branding them feudal exploiters of the masses and driving dedes out of their villages.\n\nThe violence of the 70s resulted in the military takeover of 1980 whose purges hurt Alevis harder than others because of their leftist commitment, and the \"Hacıbektaş celebrations\" were forbidden for several years. As a reaction, community identification intensified and religious and cultural boundary markers against the Sunni majority regained importance.\n\nThe return of many Turks to their religious roots and the politicization of their communal identities were a crisis response to modernity and the accelerated rate of change it forced on Turkish society. Secularist ideologies such as Kemalism and socialism seemed to have failed and not delivered the hoped for goods. Alevis were not willing any more to sacrifice their communal identity on the altar of class-struggle and began consciously to identify themselves as a political group on the basis of a shared religious identity.\n\nMuch of the violence during the late 70s although presented by state and media as left versus right was in fact Sunni versus Alevi. Ultra-nationalists allied themselves to Sunni fundamentalists in attacking Alevis. Even some communists of Sunni background sided with conservative Sunnis against their political allies of Alevi background. In 1978 in the city of Kahramanmaraş in southern Turkey local Sunnis went on a rampage, slaughtering scores of leftist Alevis from the nearby villages in the worst massacre in living memory.\n\nThe first massacre that targeted Alevi Kurds was the Dersim Massacre in 1938. Later, during the 1960s-70s, the politicization of Alevi communities within the Turkish leftist movement angered right-wingers, ultra-nationalists and Islamists, who cooperated in carrying out pogroms of Alevis in the late 1970s. Malatya in 1978, Maraş in 1979, and Çorum in 1980 witnessed the murder of hundreds of Alevis, the torching of hundreds of homes, and lootings committed by ultranationalists and reactionaries. These are now believed to have been organized by the state. Such massacres continued in the following decades and included the Sivas Massacre (1993) and the Gazi incidents in Istanbul (1995).\n\nDuring the violent suppression of the rebellion of the local population of Dersim province by the Turkish Army in the summer of 1937 and the spring of 1938 thousands of Alevi Zazas (Zazaki) were killed and thousands more were taken into exile, depopulating the province. A key component of the turkification process was the policy of massive population resettlement, a result of the 1934 law on resettlement, a policy targeting the region of Dersim as one of its first test cases with disastrous consequences for the local population.\n\nMaraş Massacre of December 1978 was the massacre of over seven hundred civilians, mostly Alevi Kurdish slum dwellers, living as migrant workers in shanty towns in the industrial heart of Turkey. The direct perpetrators were the Greywolves. Though the tensions were initially ignited by the bombing by right-wing militants of a cinema frequently visited by ultra-nationalists, the incident is best remembered for the subsequent campaign of violence directed against left-wingers, largely Alevis, although some left-wing Sunnis and Kurds were also targeted.\n\nÇorum Massacre occurred in the province of Çorum in Turkey between May and July 1980. Nationalist Sunni Muslims targeted the Alevi Turkish minority and killed more than half a hundred of them. More than 200 were injured. Another target was the social-liberal Republican People's Party (CHP). Many victims were youngsters and women.\n\nThe democratic opening in Turkey in 1988/1989 broke taboos and opened up public discussions in the press. Publications were allowed that would never have been permitted before and liberals pushed for ethnographic studies of the Turkish society mosaic. Since 1989 the liberal press has accepted Alevism as a separate religious community. Along with other marginalized groups Alevis increased their political activism and fought for equality and official recognition of Alevism as an Islamic community with its special characteristics, for legalization of its religious ritual and practice, for integration of Alevi doctrine in the state education system, and for allotment of a fair share in the media.\n\nThe 1980 military takeover brought all Turkish secularist movements under pressure due to the growing Islamization of public and private life. Alevis allied themselves to secular-liberal Sunni groups that feared for the secular Kemalist state - but Alevis this time were not absorbed by these groups but cooperated with them as a separately identifiable group.\n\nAs Sunni Islamism gained strength in the late 1980s and religious intolerance spread, an Alevi backlash occurred in the form of a cultural revival spearheaded by the new educated Alevi elite who organised foundations and trusts, rebuild Saint tombs, and restored rituals. There was an effort to reclaim traditions and re-mark boundaries, a call to reconstruct Alevi culture, community, and identity. A process was initiated of a reinterpretation of Alevi history and religion, culminating in an \"invention of traditions\" accompanied by a \"coming out\" of Alevis from century long dissimulation practices. For the first time in modern history Alevis dared to publicly accept their stigmatized identity, articulate their collective interests towards the state, and demand equality with the Sunni majority.\n\nThe government was unhappy about the outcome of liberalisation. It had hoped to woo Alevis into a pure Turkish nationalist camp and separate them from other oppressed minorities, especially the exploding Kurdish nationalism. There was a growing state interest in dividing Alevis from Kurds and manipulating them to further the regime's aims. The Alevis for their part, encouraged by the weakening of the Soviet block and revived claims for minority recognition around the world, pressed for increased recognition in Turkish society. Alevi publications multiplied, and Alevis supported the claims of other minorities such as the Laz and the Kurds.\n\nThe pervasive influence of religion in public life in the 1990s has grave potential for a worsening of Sunni-Alevi tensions. In 1990 the Ministry of Cults took over the organisation of the Hacibektas festivities under the excuse of making it an international attraction. Alevis were unhappy about its interference in the programme especially in 1993 and 1994 as government officials stressed the Turkish elements in Alevism but ignored the community's specificity and did not give it any operating space as a minority community.\n\nWith the political thaw of the 1990s, Alevis in Turkey, influenced by the activities of their brethren in Europe, especially Germany, began to actively publish Alevi books, and open Alevi cultural centers.\n\nRenewed inter-communal violence is sadly on the rise. The oppression reached its \"dénouement\" in Sivas on 2 July 1993, when thirty-six people (Alevis, intellectuals, and a Dutch anthropologist) attending the Pir Sultan Abdal Festival were burned to death in a hotel by Sunni locals. The state security services did not interfere and the prosecution against leaders of the riot was not energetically pursued.\n\n1995 Gazi Quarter riots were events that occurred in March 1995 at the Gazi Quarter, a working-class neighborhood in the then Gaziosmanpaşa district, today Sultangazi district, of Istanbul, Turkey, where mostly Alevis live. The riots began after a provocative gunned attack on several cafés at the same time, and spread over other places in Istanbul and also in Ankara in the next days. During the four-day lasting unrest, a total of 23 people were killed and more than 400 were injured at three different places.\nMore recently Istanbul municipal leaders from the Islamic political party \"Refah\" tried to raze an Alevi monastery and close the Ezgi cafe where young Alevis meet. In January 1995, a comedian cracked a joke about \"Alevi incest\" on Turkish TV sparking the first ever street protest by thousands of Alevi youths. Besides, the recent plan to expand Ottoman architecture on Taksim Square, which turned into an anti-government protest all over Turkey, has encountered stiff resistance by some Alevis as well in Turkey and Western Europe.\n\nSome Alevis now demand a political party of their own to combat \"Sunni dominated \"Islamist\" parties,\" whilst others are afraid an Alevi party might lead to civil war. Furthermore, many Alevis in Turkey do support the current 'Alawi ruler Bashar al-Assad in Syria.\n\n"}
{"id": "681756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681756", "title": "Apostolic poverty", "text": "Apostolic poverty\n\nApostolic poverty is a Christian doctrine professed in the thirteenth century by the newly formed religious orders, known as the mendicant orders, in direct response to calls for reform in the Roman Catholic Church. In this, these orders attempted to live their lives without ownership of lands or accumulation of money, following the precepts given to the seventy disciples in the Gospel of Luke (10:1-24), and succeeding to varying degrees. The ascetic Pope Paschal II's solution of the Investiture Controversy in his radical Concordat of 1111 with the Emperor, repudiated by the cardinals, was that the ecclesiastics of Germany should surrender to the imperial crown their fiefs and secular offices. Paschal proved to be the last of the Gregorianist popes.\n\nThe provocative doctrine was a challenge to the wealth of the church and the concerns about ensuing corruption it brought: rejected by the hierarchy of the Church, it found sympathetic audiences among the disaffected poor of the 12th, 13th, and 14th centuries.\n\nThe doctrine of apostolic poverty was condemned as heresy in 1323, but it continued to be a source of debate.\n\nOne group which was a major proponent of apostolic poverty was the Humiliati, the \"Humble Ones\". Founded by a wool merchant, they established communities scattered around Italy and France, organized on the principle of a simple way of life for the laity, who shared their goods while remaining in family units. They remained primarily a lay movement, and came to reject the authority of the hierarchy and the clergy. For this and other reasons, they were later to be declared heretical by the Catholic Church.\n\nIt is often assumed that Saint Francis of Assisi was inspired to form the Franciscans by their movement, in an effort to emulate the poverty of Jesus Christ and to bring his message through a simple life and example, while strictly adhering to the beliefs of the Catholic Church. Saint Dominic founded a similar order, the Order of Preachers, better known as the Dominicans.\n\nPeter Waldo, founder of the Christian sect which came to known as the Waldenses, also applied this belief. Among other points of dissent with the practices of the Roman Catholic Church at the time, the Waldenses believed in reading the Bible in one's native language—as opposed to having it only in Latin—and were also greatly persecuted by the Church.\n\nThe Franciscans were authorized by Pope Gregory IX to have non-members who would look after their material needs, while the friars themselves would own nothing and would only make use according to the vow of poverty of what was given to them. From the beginning, two tendencies developed. Some friars, referred to as the Zelanti, living more isolated and simpler lives, strictly observed the poverty enjoined by the testament of Saint Francis. Others lived in convents in the towns, tending the attached churches with the necessary liturgical furnishings and devoting themselves also to study and preaching, which required the use of books. They observed the Franciscan Rule in accordance with interpretations officially made by the Popes. Already Gregory IX had indicated that the testament of St Francis did not oblige the friars in conscience. Pope Innocent IV gave the Franciscans permission to appoint \"procurators\" to buy, sell and administer goods given to them. Bonaventure, who become minister general in 1257, tried to reconcile the two tendencies and is sometimes called the second founder of the Order, to which he gave its first General Constitutions. Conflicts with the secular clergy and with lay teachers in the universities led to accusations of hypocrisy with regard to the profession of poverty from outsiders, as well as from those members of the order formerly known as the Zelanti, but who then began to be referred to as the Spirituals, because of their association with the Age of the Spirit that the apocalyptic writer Joachim of Fiore had foretold would begin in 1260.\n\nIn the early years of the 14th century, the conflict between the Spirituals and the Conventual Franciscans came to a head. The Spirituals, who in the 13th century were led by the Joachimist Peter Olivi, adopted more extreme positions that discredited the notion of apostolic poverty in some eyes and led to condemnation by Pope John XXII.\n\nIn his 14 August 1279 bull \"Exiit qui seminat\", Pope Nicholas III had confirmed the arrangement already established by Pope Gregory IX, by which all property given to the Franciscans was vested in the Holy See, which granted the friars the mere use of it. The bull declared that renunciation of ownership of all things \"both individually but also in common, for God's sake, is meritorious and holy; Christ, also, showing the way of perfection, taught it by word and confirmed it by example, and the first founders of the Church militant, as they had drawn it from the fountainhead itself, distributed it through the channels of their teaching and life to those wishing to live perfectly\". Pope Clement V's bull \"Exivi de Paradiso\" of 20 November 1312 failed to effect a compromise between the two factions. Clement V's successor, Pope John XXII was determined to suppress what he considered to be the excesses of the Spirituals, who contended eagerly for the view that Christ and his apostles had possessed absolutely nothing, either separately or jointly, and who were citing \"Exiit qui seminat\" in support of their view. In 1317, he formally condemned the group of them known as the Fraticelli.\n\nOn 26 March 1322, John removed the ban on discussion of Nicholas III's bull and commissioned experts to examine the idea of poverty based on belief that Christ and the apostles owned nothing. The experts disagreed among themselves, but the majority condemned the idea on the grounds that it would condemn the Church's right to have possessions. The Franciscan chapter held in Perugia in May 1322 declared on the contrary: \"To say or assert that Christ, in showing the way of perfection, and the Apostles, in following that way and setting an example to others who wished to lead the perfect life, possessed nothing either severally or in common, either by right of ownership and \"dominium\" or by personal right, we corporately and unanimously declare to be not heretical, but true and catholic.\" By the bull \"Ad conditorem canonum\" of 8 December of the same year, John XXII, declaring that \"it was ridiculous to pretend that every egg and piece of bread given to and eaten by the Friars Minor belonged to the pope\", forced them to accept ownership by ending the arrangement according to which all property given to the Franciscans was vested in the Holy See, which granted the friars the mere use of it. He thus demolished the fictitious structure that gave the appearance of absolute poverty to the life of the Franciscan friars, a structure that \"absolved the Franciscans from the moral burden of legal ownership, and enabled them to practise apostolic poverty without the inconvenience of actual poverty\". And on 12 November 1323 he issued the short bull \"Cum inter nonnullos\", which declared \"erroneous and heretical\" the doctrine that Christ and his apostles had no possessions whatever.\n\nInfluential members of the order protested, including the minister general Michael of Cesena, the English provincial William of Ockham, and Bonagratia of Bergamo. In 1324, Louis the Bavarian sided with the Spirituals and accused the Pope of heresy. In reply to the argument of his opponents that Nicholas III's bull \"Exiit qui seminat\" was fixed and irrevocable, John XXII issued the bull \"Quia quorundam\" of 10 November 1324, in which he declared that it cannot be inferred from the words of the 1279 bull that Christ and the apostles had nothing, adding: \"Indeed, it can be inferred rather that the Gospel life lived by Christ and the Apostles did not exclude some possessions in common, since living 'without property' does not require that those living thus should have nothing in common.\"\n\nIn 1328 Michael of Cesena was summoned to Avignon to explain the Order's intransigence in refusing the Pope's orders and its complicity with Louis of Bavaria. Michael was imprisoned in Avignon, together with Francesco d'Ascoli, Bonagratia and William of Ockham. In January of that year Louis of Bavaria entered Rome and had himself crowned emperor. Three months later, he declared John XXII deposed and installed the Spiritual Franciscan Pietro Rainalducci as Pope. The Franciscan chapter that opened in Bologna on 28 May reelected Michael of Cesena, who two days before had escaped with his companions from Avignon. But in August Louis the Bavarian and his pope had to flee Rome before an attack by Robert, King of Naples. Only a small part of the Franciscan Order joined the opponents of John XXII, and at a general chapter held in Paris in 1329 the majority of all the houses declared their submission to the Pope. With the bull \"Quia vir reprobus\" of 16 November 1329, John XXII replied to Michael of Cesena's attacks on \"Ad conditorem canonum\", \"Cum inter\" and \"Quia quorundam\". In 1330 Antipope Nicholas V submitted, followed later by the ex-general Michael, and finally, just before his death, by Ockham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3205193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3205193", "title": "Aquarian Tabernacle Church", "text": "Aquarian Tabernacle Church\n\nThe Aquarian Tabernacle Church (ATC) is a Wiccan church located in Index, Washington. It is one of the first Wiccan organisations to receive full legal recognition as a church in the United States and Australia. The church has an umbrella 501c(3), there are 29 affiliate churches in North America, with 3 additional affiliates on other continents and 7 countries. (As of January 2015). The ATC founded SpiralScouts International and Woolston-Steen Theological Seminary. A degree giving college recognized by the Washington State government that can give degrees from Associates to Doctorates in Wiccan Ministry. The church has prison outreach programs.\n\nThe Aquarian Tabernacle Church (ATC) was founded in 1979 by Pete Davis, who died at 6pm on 31 October 2014. The mother church is located in Index, WA. The current Arch Priestess is Rev. Lady Belladonna Laveau.\n\nThe Aquarian Tabernacle Church is a positive, life-affirming spirituality, a non-dualist, non-racist, non-sexist, non-exclusivist, ecologically oriented faith dedicated to the preservation of Holy Mother Earth, the revival of the worship of The Old Gods in a modern context, the achievement of the fullest of human potentials and the creation of a peaceful world of love, freedom, health and prosperity for all sentient beings.\n\nThe ATC hosts two festivals every year.\n\nSpring Mysteries Festival this festival celebrates the Eleusinian Mysteries. This festival provides a ritual experience allowing one to speak to the gods that Wild Hunt columnist Mary Shoup called \"a life-changing experience.\" It occurs on the weekend of Easter every year. The first year was 1985.\n\nHecate's Sickle Festival celebrates the traditional Wiccan Samhain theme, and participate in workshops and classes that allow them to explore the grief and death aspects of the Wiccan belief structure, as well as undergo healing experiences that will help them move from the dark half to the light half of our year. It occurs in October every year. The first year was in 1989.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22901091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22901091", "title": "Bhojshala", "text": "Bhojshala\n\nThe Bhojshala (IAST: Bhojaśālā, sometimes Bhoj Shala, meaning 'Hall of Bhoja') is located in Dhar, Madhya Pradesh, India. It is the site of the early 11th century centre for Sanskrit studies and temple of Sarasvatī – the Hindu goddess of learning, music and arts – located in the hall's precincts. Bhojshala is attributed to celebrated King Bhoja of the Paramāra dynasty of central India, a great patron of education and arts, and to whom major Hindu Sanskrit works on poetics, yoga and architecture are attributed. The term \"Bhojashala\" became linked to a later era mosque and tombs that exist immediately next to it, an association that started in early 20th century, though the Islamic structures were built between the 14th and 15th century.\n\nBhojshala is also an archaeological site, one which is disputed between Hindus and Muslims. The site excavation since the 19th century has yielded information on medieval era Indian religions particularly of Hinduism and Jainism, as well as a goddess statue that was housed in the British Museum but whose current location is a mystery. The site also houses the Kamal-Maula mosque with four Sufi tombs, wherein the hypostyle mosque was built primarily from demolished temple pillars and parts around 1400 CE, while the tomb of Kamal al-Din Malawi (c. 1238-1330) is older. The Muslims use the mosque for Friday prayers and Islamic festivals, while the Hindus pray on Tuesday. The Hindu also attempt to pray to goddess Saraswati at the site particularly on Vasant Panchami festival, and this been a source of Hindu-Muslim conflicts and occasional riots when Vasant Panchami falls on a Friday.\n\nKing Bhoja, who ruled between \"circa\" 1000 and 1055 in central India, is considered in the Hindu tradition as one of the exceptional kings. He was a celebrated patron of arts, and out of reverence for him, Hindu scholars that followed traditionally attributed a large number of Sanskrit works on philosophy, astronomy, grammar medicine, yoga, architecture and other subjects to him. Of these, a well studied and influential text is in the field of poetics called \"Śṛṅgaraprakāśa\". \n\nAlong with his literary and art support, Bhoja began constructing a Shiva temple at Bhojpur. If it had been completed to the extent he planned, the temple would have been double the size of the Hindu temples at the Khajuraho Group of Monuments. The temple was partially completed, and the epigraphical evidence confirms that Bhoja founded and built Hindu temples.\n\nBhoja's successor was king Arjunavarman (\"circa\" 1210-15). He and many others, in Hindu and Jain traditions, held Bhoja in such high regard that they stated or were revered as an reincarnation (rebirth) of Bhoja or Bhoja-like ruler. Centuries later, Bhoja remained a revered figure as evidenced by Merutuṅga's \"Prabandhacintāmaṇi\" completed in the fourteenth century, and Ballāla’s \"Bhojaprabandha\" composed at Varanasi in the 17th century. This tradition continued, and in the 20th century, Hindu scholars described Bhoja as an example of the glorious past of their historic culture and a part of Hindu identity.\n\nThe capital of the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal, is named after him, i.e. \"Bhoj-pal\".\n\nThe archaeological sites at Dhār attracted the early attention of colonial Indologists and historians. John Malcolm mentioned it in 1822, along with building projects such as the dams planned and completed by King Bhoja. Malcolm also mentioned that he removed an inscribed panel from the site; this appears to be the Rāüla vela of Roḍa, a unique poetic work in the earliest forms of Hindi. This inscription was kept first in The Asiatic Society of Mumbai and was later transferred to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya in Mumbai.\n\nSome years later, in 1888, William Kincaid published his \"Indian Antiquary\" which makes no mention of the term Bhojshala, but does mention a \"Akl ka kua\" or \"Well of Wisdom\" in front of the tomb of Kamal al-Din. According to Michael Willis, Kincaid was not a sympathetic ethnographer, but the absence of the term Bhojshala in his text may be because there was \"no living tradition about Bhojshala in the middle decades of the nineteenth century\" among those who he interacted with in Dhar.\n\nThe scholarly studies on the inscriptions of Bhojshala began in the 19th century, such as with the efforts of Bhau Daji in 1871. In 1903, K. K. Lele, Superintendent of Education in the Princely State of Dhār, reported a number of Sanskrit and Prakrit inscriptions in the walls and floor of the pillared hall at Kamāl Maula mosque.\n\nThe first of these records is a series of verses in Prakrit praising the Kūrma or Tortoise incarnation of the god Viṣṇu. The \"Kūrmaśataka\" is attributed to king Bhoja but the palaeography of the record suggests that this copy was engraved in the twelfth or thirteenth century. The text was published by Richard Pischel in 1905-06, with a new version and translation appearing in 2003 by V. M. Kularni.\n\nA second inscription is part of a drama called \"Vijayaśrīnāṭikā\" composed by Madana. The preceptor of king Arjunavarman, Madana bore the title 'Bālasarasvatī'. The inscription reports that the play was performed before Arjunavarman in the temple of Sarasvatī. This suggests that the inscription could have come from the site of a Sarasvatī temple. The variety and size of pillars, and the inscribed tablets recovered by Lele from the site, among them two serpentine inscriptions giving grammatical rules of the Sanskrit language, show that materials were brought from a wide area and a number of different structures.\n\nThe finds—and the serpentine grammatical inscriptions in the building—prompted Lele to describe the building as the Bhojśālā or Hall of Bhoja because king Bhoja was the author of a number of works on poetics and grammar, among them the \"Sarasvatīkaṇṭhābharaṇa\" or 'Necklace of Sarasvatī'. The term Bhojaśālā was taken up by C. E. Luard and published in his \"Gazetteer\" of 1908 although Luard noted that it was a misnomer.\n\nAfter Lele and Luard had identified the Bhojaśālā with the Kamāl Maula masjid, O. C. Gangoly and K. N. Dikshit published an inscribed sculpture in the British Museum, announcing that it was Raja Bhoja's Sarasvatī from Dhār. This analysis was broadly accepted and had a significant impact. The statue in the British Museum was identified as Bhoja's Sarasvatī in the years that followed.\n\nThe inscription on the sculpture mentions king Bhoja and Vāgdevī, another name for Sarasvatī. However, later study of the inscription by Indian scholars of Sanskrit and Prakrit languages such as Harivallabh Bhayani, demonstrated that inscription records the making of a sculpture of Ambikā of Jainism after the making of three Jinas and Vāgdevī. In other words, according to Michael Willis, \"although Vāgdevī is indeed mentioned, the inscription's main purpose is to record the making of an image of Ambikā, i.e. the sculpture on which the record is incised\".\n\nThe inscription on the statue previously with the British Museum indicates that the Vāgdevī at Dhār was dedicated to the Jain form of Saraswati deity. While Ambika statue was discovered at the Bhojshala site, the Vagdevi statue mentioned in the inscriptions no longer exists or is yet to be located. Other evidence suggests that the Hindu King Bhoja's eulogistic tablets in the Sarasvatī temple engraved with a poem are dedicated to a Jain Tirthankara.\n\nThe building is a Protected Monument of national importance under the laws of India and is under the juristiction of the Archaeological Survey of India. Both Hindus and Muslims claim the site, and use it for their prayers. According to Archaeological Survey of India guidelines, Muslims can pray on Friday and Islamic festivals, Hindus can pray on Tuesday and on the festival for goddess Sarasvatī, namely Vasant Panchami. The site is open to visitors on other days. \n\nThe disputes about the site were prompted by the inscriptions and the information they provide about historic Indian religions, particularly Hinduism and Jainism. Data about Jainism comes from texts and a statue of the goddess Ambikā that is now housed in British Museum. The area beside the Bhojshala has four Sufi Islam tombs. The most important is the tomb of Kamāl al-Dīn (\"circa\" 1238-1330), famous Chishti saint, who tomb was rebuilt under the Malwa Sultanate. Architecturally, the Bhojshala is earlier in date, and appears to be a hypostyle hall built of temple parts in the 1300s in a manner similar to the Quwwat-ul-Islam in the Qutb Minar complex, Delhi. \n\nConflicts arise when the Vasant Panchami falls on Friday. The Archaeological Survey of India attempts to assign hours to both Hindus and Muslims on such days. However, this been a source of communal conflict and occasional distrubance when the religious group scheduled for the earlier time slot refuse to vacate the premises in time for the next.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29785890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29785890", "title": "Boaz Cohen", "text": "Boaz Cohen\n\nBoaz Cohen (1899–1968) was a leading American scholar of Talmud, a legal decisor (posek), and a professor at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America.\n\nCohen was born and educated in Bridgeport, Connecticut. He was ordained as a rabbi at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTS) in 1924. Following his ordination, he was appointed Assistant Librarian of JTS. In 1925, he was appointed an instructor of Talmud, and went on to serve on the JTS faculty for four decades. In 1927, he received his Ph.D. from Columbia University. During his career he published extensively on the Talmud and Jewish law, while also authoring many comparative studies between Jewish law and other legal systems. Many of those studies were published in a collection titled \"Jewish and Roman Law\" (New York, 1966).\n\nCohen also served as Chair of the Committee on Jewish Law of the Rabbinical Assembly, and he issued thousands of legal rulings.\n"}
{"id": "5655279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5655279", "title": "Botanical identity of soma–haoma", "text": "Botanical identity of soma–haoma\n\nThere has been much speculation as to the original Rigvedic Soma plant (and of the Proto-Indo-Iranian \"*Sauma\", which besides \"Soma\" is reflected in the Iranian Haoma).\n\nSince the late 18th century, when Anquetil-Duperron and others made portions of the Avesta available to western scholarship, several scholars have sought a representative botanical equivalent of the \"haoma\" as described in the texts and as used in living Zoroastrian practice. Most of the proposals concentrated on either linguistic evidence or comparative pharmacology or reflected ritual use. Rarely were all three considered together, which usually resulted in such proposals being quickly rejected.\n\nThe Rigveda calls the plant Soma the \"Creator of the Gods\" and gives Soma precedence above Indra and the other Gods calling Soma \"a God for Gods\".\n\nSoma was generally assumed to be entheogenic, based on \nRV 8.48 Note, there are numerous similar references in the Vedas, e.g. RV9.4, RV9.5, RV9.8, RV9.10, RV9.42. Some descriptions of Soma are associated with \"tapas\" (heat, excitement, \"energy\"). Soma is associated with the warrior-god Indra, and appears to have been drunk before battle. For these reasons, there are stimulant (amphetamine-like) plants as well as entheogenic plants among the candidates that have been suggested. Soma is also often associated with Light and Indra is the \"Lord of Light\" as shown in RV 8.82.25.\n\nSeveral texts like the Atharva Veda extol the medicinal properties of Soma and he is regarded as the king of medicinal herbs (and also of the Brahmana class).\n\nWhen the ritual of Somayajna is held today in South India, the herb which is used is the \"somalata\" (\"Sarcostemma acidum\"), a leafless plant that grows in rocky places all over India.\n\nFrom the late 1960s onwards, several studies attempted to establish \"soma\" as a psychotropic substance. A number of proposals were made, included an important one in 1968 by Robert Gordon Wasson, an amateur mycologist, who (on Vedic evidence) asserted that \"soma\" was an inebriant, and suggested fly-agaric mushroom, \"Amanita muscaria\", as the likely candidate. Wasson and his co-author, Wendy Doniger O'Flaherty, drew parallels between Vedic descriptions and reports of Siberian uses of the fly-agaric in shamanic ritual. Furthermore, the mountainous origin of soma matches the habitat of fly-agaric, and when discussing soma, the Vedas do not mention any part of a flowering tree.\n\nIn 1971, Vedic scholar John Brough from Cambridge University rejected Wasson's theory and drew attention to ephedrine (in particular to that extracted from \"Ephedra sinica\"), and noted that it \"is a powerful stimulant, and would thus be a more plausible preparation for warriors about to go into\nbattle than the fly-agaric, which is a depressant.\" (for use of \"parahaoma\" by soldiers, see reference to the Ab-Zohr in \"Denkard\" 8.25.24). This was in turn contradicted in 1974 by Iranologist Ilya Greshevitch, who determined that, in small doses, fly-agaric was indeed a stimulant. In any case, since the \"weapon\" that Indra uses is the \"Vajra\" which emits \"lightning bolts\", the \"battles\" could not have been physical ones.\n\nJ. P. Mallory rejects Wasson's argument that the absence of Vedic descriptions of plant parts point to a fungus, since the Vedas do not describe the plant from which is extracted at all; he explains the references in mountains as a metaphor \"recalling soma's lofty origins\".\n\nTerence McKenna in his book \"The Food Of Gods\" takes issue with the \"Amanita muscaria\" theory and suggests the psilocybin-containing \"Psilocybe cubensis\" mushroom as a Soma candidate. McKenna argues that effects of the \"Amanita muscaria\" mushrooms contradict the description of the properties described in the Rigveda. \"Amanita muscaria\" mushrooms have properties that are arguably more deliriant than psychedelic. Psilocybin, the active psychoactive component in \"Psilocybe cubensis\", has a strong mind-altering effect. McKenna cites other cultures who use and venerate psychedelic plant-drugs in religious ceremonies such as at Chavin de Huantar, Peru.\n\nGordon Wasson, who initially suggested that the soma plant was \"Amanita muscaria,\" described \"Psilocybe cubensis\" as \"easily identified and gathered\" in India, and eventually hypothesized, along with McKenna, that \"Psilocybe cubensis\" was perhaps the true identity of soma. McKenna and Wasson both unsuccessfully attempted to use \"Amanita muscaria\" to achieve a state of consciousness conducive to the development of a religion.\n\nThe 9th mandala of the Rigveda suggests that the cow is the embodiment of soma, which provides support for McKenna's theory because \"Psilocybe cubensis\" is known to grow in cow dung.\n\nA study by Griffiths et al. concluded that psilocybin is capable of producing mystical experiences. These experiences may be conducive to the development of a religious ritual. It is worth noting that the experience of death and rebirth can be brought on by psychedelic drugs, but it is also a central concept of Hinduism (i.e. saṃsāra).\n\nIn 1989, David Flattery, with linguistic support from Martin Schwarz, concentrated again on Iranian \"haoma\". The two again paid particular attention to the hallucinogenic properties that may be interpreted from the texts, and discounted Ephedra because they could not observe Zoroastrian priests becoming intoxicated.\nThey concluded that it was \"therefore neither likely that Ephedra was a substitute for *sauma nor that it was *sauma itself\" and that the ephedrine and pseudoephedrine alkaloids extracted from Ephedra had to be mixed with the extract from some other plant to achieve the described effects. Flattery proposed the second plant was \"Peganum harmala\" (harmal, harmel, Syrian rue, see also harmaline), known in Iranian languages as \"esfand\", \"sepand\" or other similar terms related to Avestan word \"spenta\" ('sacred', 'holy'). Flattery considered harmel to be the real \"haoma\", with ephedra only being the secondary ingredient in the \"parahaoma\" mixture. Other reasons for preferring \"Peganum harmala\" as the identity of soma-haoma include its use as an entheogen in some South American cultures, mirroring its role in Indo-Iranian religion, and its being the only incense plant with hallucinogenic properties in Iran.\n\n\"Peganum harmala\" contains harmaline, which is a strong MAO-inhibitor, and it is therefore often used as a first component in ayahuasca ceremonies in order to inhibit the metabolisation of an orally administered DMT molecule (2nd component). Since co-occurrence of DMT-carrying Phalaris grass and Harmala were observed at Yazd, Persepolis, Merv and Termez, the hypothesis stating that Soma/Haoma was a biochemical Euro-Asian correlate of ayahuasca cannot be a priori excluded.\n\nAnother candidate of the non-hallucinogenic, stimulant hypothesis is a species of the genus \"Ephedra\". Ephedrine, the agent substance in this plant, has a chemical structure similar to amphetamines, and it results in high blood-pressure; according to anecdotal reports, it has a stimulating effect more potent than that of caffeine.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the highly conservative Zoroastrians of Yazd province in Iran were found to use Ephedra (genus \"Ephedra\"), which was locally known as \"hum\" or \"homa\" and which they exported to the Indian Zoroastrians. The plant, as Falk also established, requires a cool (but not cold) and dry climate, i.e. it does not grow in India (which is too hot and/or too humid) but thrives in central Asia. \"Ephedra distachya\" is native to southern Europe and northern Asia. Later, it was discovered that a number of Iranian languages and Persian dialects have \"hom\" or similar terms as the local name for some variant of Ephedra.\n\nEphedra plants are shrubs, measuring between 0.2 and 4 meters, with numerous green or yellowish stems. There are about 30 species, mainly Eurasian. The species growing in mountainous regions have the highest ephedrine content (up to 3% in the case of \"Ephedra equisetina\"). The marrow in the stems is brown-coloured in some species, reminiscent of Sanskrit \"babhru\" (\"greyish-brown\"), used exclusively in the Vedas to describe the extract.\n\nThe different species of Ephedra are not well known, and their taxonomy is in a state of confusion. Assuming a Pontic-Caspian home of Indo-Iranian religions (see Kurgan), the only likely candidate is \"Ephedra distachya\", still used in Iranian folk medicine.\n\nThe native name for Ephedra in most Indo-Iranian languages of Central Asia is derived from \"*sauma-\" (e.g. Nepali \"somalata\", Pashto \"Oman\"/\"unan\", Baluchi \"hum\"/\"huma\"/\"uma\").\n\nIn 1989, in a highly influential text, Harry Falk pointed out that both the Flattery and Wasson arguments assumed that \"haoma\" was hallucinogenic, although the effect desired by Zoroastrian and Vedic ritual use was not. Falk noted that, in the texts, both \"haoma\" and \"soma\" were said to enhance alertness and awareness, did not coincide with the consciousness altering effects of an entheogen, and that \"there is nothing shamanistic or visionary either in early Vedic or in Old Iranian texts,\" nor could the small doses administered in living Zoroastrian custom justify its consideration as an inebriant. Living custom also does not give the extract enough time to ferment.\n\nFalk established that the effect of the alkaloid ephedrine was, in many respects, similar to adrenaline, but \"its actions are less intense but more prolonged than those of adrenaline, and, most important, it prevents sleeping.\" Chemically, ephedrine is similar to amphetamine (amphetamine itself originating as an innovative \"upgrade\" of an ephedrine prototypical base). Falk also asserted that the three varieties of ephedra that yield ephedrine (\"E. gerardiana\", \"E. major procera\" and \"E. intermedia\") also have the properties attributed to \"haoma\" by the texts of the Avesta.\n\nIn 1994, Viktor Sarianidi claimed that ancient ritual objects found at BMAC archeological sites in Central Asia bore traces of Ephedra stalks and Papaver (poppy) seeds. In 1995, Harri Nyberg investigated the specimens provided by Sarianidi but could not confirm the claim.\n\nAnother site provided material which Sarianidi had declared contained traces of Ephedra, papaver and hemp (Cannabis) in 1998–1999. It was analysed in 2002–2003 by three independent teams, but they found no traces of the claimed contents.\n\nNonetheless, in the conclusion of his observations on the 1999 Haoma-Soma workshop in Leiden, Jan E. M. Houben writes that \"[d]espite strong attempts to do away with Ephedra by those who are eager to see \"*sauma\" as a hallucinogen, its status as a serious candidate for the Rigvedic Soma and Avestan Haoma still stands.\" This supports Falk, who in his summary noted that \"\"there is no need to look for a plant other than Ephedra, the one plant used to this day by the Parsis.\"\n\nCannabis was also suggested, also based on Tibetan clues. The Tibetan word for Dekkan hemp \"Hibiscus cannabinus\", is \"So. Ma.Ra. Dza.\", apparently a borrowing from the Sanskrit \"soma-raja\" \"king Soma\" or possibly \"soma rasa\" / \"soma juice\" which could be the same as \"bhang\". Additionally, the Chinese word for cannabis hemp is \"Huo Ma\" or literally \"fire hemp\".\n\nBased on a detailed botanical analysis of iconography and ancient texts, \"Nelumbo nucifera\", also known as the Sacred Lotus, is another candidate for Soma. The description of Soma in the Vedic texts somewhat resembles the Sacred Lotus. Sacred Lotus is a waterlily that produces golden-red flowers on stalks. These flowers resemble portions of the ancient texts comparing Soma to an arrow and the sun. Other Vedic hymns describe Soma as having a \"ruddy radiance\", reflecting the color of the flowers of the Sacred Lotus. Soma is also described in the Vedic hymns as growing \"joint by joint, knot by knot\", which is a good description of a plant that grows by producing procumbent shoots with nodes and internodes. In addition, benzoisoquinoline alkaloids found in the Sacred Lotus, including aporphine, proaporphine, and nuciferine, are psychoactive, producing feelings of euphoria when ingested.\n\nIn \"The Road to Eleusis\", the authors, R. Gordon Wasson, Albert Hofmann, and Carl A.P. Ruck, note the similarity in preparation of the Vedic Soma and Eleusinain Mysteries Kykeon. The book hypothesizes that the source of both was ergot (Claviceps purpurea).\n\nSeveral authors have identified Saccharum Sara, a variety of sugarcane that grows near lakes as source of vedic Soma or with an ancient variety of sugarcane that may presently be extinct and \n\nIn his autobiography, Swami Rama recalls contacting an Indian herbologist and Vedic scholar named Vaidya Bhairavdutt, who is described as \"the only living authority on soma\". Bhairavdutt comes to visit the swami, bringing about a pound of the herb with him. He informs the swami that though the plant's effects can be likened to that of psychedelic mushrooms, it is definitely not a mushroom, but rather a succulent plant.\nBhairavdutt convinces the swami to join him in partaking the soma. The taste, says Swami Rama, is \"a little bit bitter and sour.\" Bhairavdutt becomes inebriated and dances wildly, claiming he is Shiva. Several students attempt to restrain the apparently slightly built Bhairavdutt, but are unable to do so. Meanwhile, Swami Rama develops a crippling headache, a symptom which is compatible with the effects of ephedrine overdose. No hallucinogenic effects are described by Swami Rama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12658337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12658337", "title": "Buddhism in Slovenia", "text": "Buddhism in Slovenia\n\nBuddhism is a legally recognized religion in Slovenia and it is followed by more than 1,000 Slovenes, though no official numbers are established as the previous census did not include Buddhism specifically. Although still small in absolute numbers (though Slovenia has only 2 million inhabitants), Buddhism in Slovenia enjoys widespread acceptance if not popularity.\n\nAs in most European countries, different branches and schools of Buddhism are represented by groups of varying sizes. The largest traditions represented are Theravada and Vajrayana. There is a Buddhist temple in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, and Theravada hermitage in the forested countryside in Goljek, near Trebnje, which belongs to Ajahn Chah lineage.\n\nIn Slovenia, the competent administration dealing with religions is the Governmental Office for Religious Community of Republic of Slovenia, and a newly approved regulation has been enacted in 2007.\n\nBuddhist religious communities registered to the Office for Religious Communities of the Government of Slovenia include:\nOn 4 July 2008, an agreement was signed between Dharmaling and the State of Slovenia. This is first agreement signed with a Buddhist Community in Slovenia.\n\nThe following smaller associations also exist in Slovenia:\n\n"}
{"id": "437075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437075", "title": "Bwiti", "text": "Bwiti\n\nBwiti is a spiritual discipline of the forest-dwelling Babongo and Mitsogo peoples of Gabon (where it is recognized as one of three official religions) and by the Fang people of Gabon and Cameroon. Modern Bwiti incorporates animism, ancestor worship, and Christianity into a syncretistic belief system.\n\nBwiti practitioners use the psychedelic, dissociative root bark of the \"Tabernanthe iboga\" plant, specially cultivated for the religion, to promote radical spiritual growth, to stabilize community and family structure, to meet religious requirements, and to resolve pathological problems. The root bark has been consumed for hundreds of years in a Bwiti rite of passage ceremony, as well as in initiation rites and acts of healing. The experience yields complex visions and insights anticipated to be valuable to the initiate and the chapel.\n\nTaking Iboga brings both open and closed-eye visions which can be made stronger by darkness, ambiance, and suggestion. Following the visions, users experience an introspective mindset in which they often recount past experiences in life. Difficulty sleeping, nausea, and vomiting sometimes last until the day after consumption.\n\nBwiti ceremonies are led by a spiritual leader called \"N'ganga\" who is a very important member of the community and has extensive knowledge of traditional healing practices, hexes, and spells. The crucial rite of Bwiti is the initiation ceremony, when young Gabonese men take iboga for the first time in the men's hut to become members of the spiritual practice. There are many ceremonies at different times of the year to give homage to the ancestors. Special ceremonies may be held to heal sick persons or drive out malevolent spirits.\n\nDuring many ceremonies, a traditional torch made of bark and tree sap is burned. Musicians playing drums and a traditional Ngombi harp are central to the rites. The N'ganga and other participants usually dress in red, black, and white cloth. They may wear skirts of raffia material and small shells or beads. Animal skins, such as Genet fur, are often worn. The iboga root may be made into a tea or more often taken in the form of scrapings. Ceremonies usually begin at night and may last for days as the doses of the drug used in these ceremonies is particularly long lasting.\n\nBwiti is one of Gabon's official religions and is influenced by Christianity including using the Christian Calendar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8180848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180848", "title": "Christianity Is Stupid", "text": "Christianity Is Stupid\n\n\"Christianity Is Stupid\" is a song from Negativland's 1987 concept album, \"Escape from Noise\". In the song, Negativland rearranges words and phrases to form a different meaning. They sampled phrases from a sermon by Rev. Estus Pirkle (from his 1968 LP, \"If Footmen Tire You, What Will Horses Do?\", itself later adapted into a film of the same name). Pirkle's narrative included an imagined visit to the U.S. under Communism where public loudspeakers constantly proclaim \"Christianity is stupid! Communism is good! Give up!\" These phrases were altered and mixed with appropriately march-like heavy metal music and various other sound effects.\n\nIn 2004, the song was made into a video entitled \"The Mashin' of the Christ\" that sampled many Jesus Christ-topic films and footage from Marxist-Leninist countries.\n\nWhen their 1987 album, \"Escape From Noise\", proved to be more successful than they expected, Negativland were expected to do a national tour. However, their record company, SST, could not provide sufficient funds. To explain the cancelled tour, Negativland issued a fake press release saying that the song \"Christianity Is Stupid\" had played a role in the David Brom murders. The press release implied that Brom had listened to Negativland's song \"Christianity Is Stupid\" before the fatal quarrel with his religious parents. The group claimed they were \"advised by Federal Official Dick Jordan not to leave town pending an investigation into the Brom murders\". Brom, 16 at the time, had killed his family with an axe. Negativland's press release was picked up by San Francisco Bay Area media, including CBS News. Negativland recorded much of the news about their supposed influence on Brom, and in 1989 worked this material into another album called \"Helter Stupid\". Eventually, Negativland exposed their own hoax during an NPR interview on the subject.\n\nIn reality, there was no official named \"Dick Jordan\", and Brom did not possess any Negativland music. Nevertheless, pundits and journalists took the press release at face value, and the hoax received widespread media coverage. Negativland encouraged the spread of the story by steadfastly refusing further comment, supposedly on the advice of their attorney \"Hal Stakke\", another fictional person invented by the band. Much of this media coverage was negative, and band member Richard Lyons' home in Oakland, California was pelted with rocks by an unknown vandal. The resulting media craze, stemming from journalists neglecting to fact-check, is lampooned in the title track of their 1989 album, \"Helter Stupid\", whose insert also includes background information behind the band's prank.\n"}
{"id": "37180424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37180424", "title": "Confucius' Birthday", "text": "Confucius' Birthday\n\nConfucius’ Birthday (, Mandarin ）, falls on the 27th day of the eighth lunar month of the Chinese calendar. It is officially celebrated on Taiwan as \"Teachers' Day\" on September 28th, and in Hong Kong on the third Sunday of September as \"Confucius Day\", though the traditional date is also often observed. Mainland China observes a \"Teachers' Day\" on September 10th to celebrate the efforts of today's teachers, and there is a legislative effort underway to move that to September 28th. \n\nMany countries with Confucian cultures hold commemorations each year, especially mainland China, Macau, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Japan. The birth of Confucius is not a public holiday, but it is an official public holiday for workers (not including teachers) in Taiwan, known as Teachers’ Day. In October 2006, Hong Kong officially commenced celebrating the birth date of Confucius. The roots of this traditional ceremony can be found as far back in the time of the Zhou Dynasty, and appeals to both foreign tourists and local people to this day.\n\nFestivals are held to celebrate the birth of Confucius all across China, including at his birthplace in Shandong Province. Among the many attendees of the ceremonies at the Temple of Confucius in Qufu are scholars, notable people, and descendants of Confucius.\nDuring the festival at the Qufu temple there are many activities and entertainments, including musical performances and dancing from ancient times. In the famous Yi Dance, the dancers wear clothes from the Song and Ming Dynasty, with yellow silk robes, blue waistbands, and black hats. The ceremonial music, played with traditional Chinese instruments, is known as “The Sound of Peace”. The musicians wear the clothes of the Ming Dynasty, with red robes and black hats. In addition to these performances, are calligraphy demonstrations and exhibitions, with many people in traditional costumes. Tourists are welcome to attend and enter the tombs of Confucius and his descendants, as well as explore his hometown and the Confucius Temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "5560053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560053", "title": "Dedication of the Basilica of St Mary Major", "text": "Dedication of the Basilica of St Mary Major\n\nThe Dedication of the Basilica of St Mary Major (\"In Dedicatione basilicae S. Mariae\") is a feast day in the General Roman Calendar, optionally celebrated annually on 5 August with the rank of memorial.\n\nIn earlier editions of the General Roman Calendar, down to that of 1960, it is called the Dedication of the Basilica of St Mary of the Snows (\"In Dedicatione basilicae S. Mariae ad Nives\"), a reference to the legendary story about the foundation of the basilica. For the same reason the feast is also known popularly as Our Lady of the Snows. The reference to the legend was removed in the 1969 revision of the General Roman Calendar.\n\nPope Pius V inserted this feast into the General Roman Calendar in 1568, when, in response to the request of the Council of Trent, he reformed the Roman Breviary. Before that, it had been celebrated at first only in the church itself and, beginning in the 14th century, in all the churches of the city of Rome.\n\nAccordingly, it appears in the Tridentine Calendar for celebration as a Double. In Pope Clement VIII's Missal of 1604, it was given the newly invented rank of Greater Double. In Pope John XXIII's 1960 calendar, it became a Third-Class Feast. This 1960 calendar, included in the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal, is the calendar whose continued use privately and, under certain conditions, publicly is authorized by the motu proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\". Nine years later, the celebration became an optional memorial.\n\nThe feast commemorates the dedication by Pope Sixtus III of the rebuilt Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore just after the First Council of Ephesus. This major basilica, located on the summit of the Esquiline Hill in Rome, is called the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore () because it is the largest church in Rome dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nThe original church, which was replaced by that of Pope Sixtus III, was built during the pontificate of Pope Liberius (352–366), and is thus sometimes known as the \"Basilica Liberii\" or \"Basilica Liberiana\".\n\nUntil 1969 the feast was known as \"Dedicatio Sanctae Mariae ad Nives\" (Dedication of the Church of Our Lady of the Snows), a name that had become popular for the Basilica in the 14th century in connection with a legend about its origin that the Catholic Encyclopedia summarizes: (in the middle of the 4th century) \"During the pontificate of Liberius, the Roman patrician John and his wife, who were without heirs, made a vow to donate their possessions to the Virgin Mary. They prayed that she might make known to them how they were to dispose of their property in her honour. On 5 August, at the height of the Roman summer, snow fell during the night on the summit of the Esquiline Hill. In obedience to a vision of the Virgin Mary that they had the same night, the couple built a basilica in honour of Mary on the very spot that was covered with snow. From the fact that no mention whatever is made of this alleged miracle until a few hundred years later, not even by Sixtus III in his eight-line dedicatory inscription ... it would seem that the legend has no historical basis.\"\n\nIn fact there is no reference to the legend before the year 1000.\n\nThe popularity of the legend in the 15th century is shown in the painting of the Miracle of the Snow by Masolino da Panicale of around 1423, now in the Museo di Capodimonte, Naples, in which the miracle is depicted as witnessed by a crowd of men and women, with Jesus and the Virgin Mary observing from above, and by the building in that century and the immediately following centuries of many churches dedicated to Our Lady of the Snows, of which 152 still exist in Italy. A more critical attitude began to prevail in the 18th century, as evidenced by the proposal that a congregation set up by Pope Benedict XIV presented to him in 1741 that the reading of the legend be removed from the Roman Breviary and that the original name, \"Dedicatio Sanctae Mariae\", be restored. This recommendation was implemented only in 1969, 228 years later.\n\nOn 5 August each year, during the celebration of the liturgical feast of the Dedication of the Basilica of St. Mary Major, a custom that commemorates the story of the miraculous snowfall is still maintained: at the conclusion of the Solemn Mass in the basilica, a shower of white rose petals is dropped from the dome of the Chapel of Our Lady.\n\nAt sunset on the same day, an artificial \"snowfall\" is staged as a tourist attraction in the square outside the basilica.\n\nApart from the above-mentioned many shrines of the \"Madonna della Neve\" in Italy, the United States has a \"National Shrine of Our Lady of the Snows\" in Belleville, Illinois, and parishes dedicated to \"Our Lady of the Snows\" are located in Reno, Nevada; Floral Park, New York, Milford, Michigan and Woodstock, Vermont. In Croatia, Bol on the island of Brač as well as the parish church in Mamre on the island of Pag are dedicated to the Lady of the Snows. There's also a dedicated temple on Calvary hill in Bratislava, Slovakia - Kostol Panny Márie Snežnej\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21168174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168174", "title": "Galdrabók", "text": "Galdrabók\n\nThe Galdrabók (Icelandic \"Book of Magic\") is an Icelandic grimoire dated to ca. 1600. It is a small manuscript containing a collection of 47 spells and sigils/staves. The grimoire was compiled by four different people, possibly starting in the late 16th century and going on until the mid-17th century. The first three scribes were Icelanders, and the fourth was a Dane working from Icelandic material. The various spells consist of Latin and runic material as well as Icelandic magical staves, invocations to Christian entities, demons and the Norse gods, as well as instructions for the use of herbs and magical items. Some of the spells are protective, intended against such problems as trouble with childbearing, headache and insomnia, previous incantations, pestilence, suffering and distress at sea. Others are intended to cause fear, kill animals, find thieves, put someone to sleep, cause flatulence, or bewitch women.\n\nThe book was first published in 1921 by Natan Lindqvist in a diplomatic edition and with a Swedish translation. An English translation was published in 1989 by Stephen Flowers, and a facsimile edition with detailed commentary by Matthías Viðar Sæmundsson in 1992. In 1995 Flowers produced a second retitled edition of his book and with the assistance of Sæmundsson corrected many translations and added many more notes and commentaries. \n\n"}
{"id": "49269655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49269655", "title": "Harisena (Jain monk)", "text": "Harisena (Jain monk)\n\nHarisena was a tenth century \"Digambara monk\". His origin is traced to those monks who had stayed in the north during the supposed famine and had been prevailed upon by their lay followers to cover their private parts with a strip of cloth (\"ardhaphalaka\") while begging for alms.\n\nHe wrote \"Brhatkathakosha\" in 932 AD. The text talks about the stupas in Mathura being erected by devas during controversies with Buddhists.\n\n"}
{"id": "29421563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29421563", "title": "Himalayan Buddhism", "text": "Himalayan Buddhism\n\nHimalayan Buddhism is a term used to collectively refer to the Buddhist schools of Tibet, Bhutan, and regions of Nepal, and those practiced in the Indian Himalayan regions of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Darjeeling, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nThere are four main, and several smaller, sects of Buddhism which were centred in Tibet but spread to the surrounding Himalayan regions:\n\nThe Newar Buddhism of Nepal, which was centred in the Kathmandu valley, is older than Tibetan Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism drew many teachings, particularly Vajarayana teachings, from Newar Buddhism as well as teachings from Indian Buddhism\n\nAll these Buddhist traditions are closely related historically and all include practices of both the Mahayana and Vajrayana traditions of Buddhism. The Buddhism of Mongolia is sometimes considered part of the same cultural milieu, although Mongolia is not in the Himalayan region.\n"}
{"id": "51998719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51998719", "title": "Hindu Religious Welfare Trust", "text": "Hindu Religious Welfare Trust\n\nHindu Religious Welfare Trust is a national government trust that looks after the welfare of the Hindu community of Bangladesh and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nThe Hindu Religious Welfare Trust was established in 1983. It is under the Ministry of Religious Affairs. In 2016-2017 budget session 2 billion taka was allocated to the trust by the finance ministry.\n"}
{"id": "37377866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37377866", "title": "Igong Maji", "text": "Igong Maji\n\nThe Igong Maji (Hangul: 이공맞이, literally \"Greeting the Igong\" is a Korean shamanistic ritual done in Jeju Island. Because Igong, the god of flowers, does not have an important role in common life, the \"Igong Maji\" was done only as a part of a large gut ritual.\n\nIgong was the patron of the Fields of Seocheon, a mythological realm of magical flowers. The myth concerning the Igong (Hallakgungi being his true name, and Igong being only a title) is called the \"Igong Bonpuli\".\n\nAccording to the \"Igong Bonpuli\", the Fields of Seocheon include many magical flowers, but only two have importance; the Hwansaengkkot (literally \"Flowers of reincarnation\") and the Suremyeolmangaksimkkot (literally \"Flower that brings destruction through the evil mind\"). The Hwansaengkkot include the Bbyeoalikkot (flower that revives the bones), Salsalikkot (flower that revives the flesh), Ojangyukbusalikkot (flower that revives the intestines), Pisalikkot (flower that revives the blood), Sumsalikkot (flower that revives the breath), and Honsalikkot (flower that revives the soul).\n\nThus, the Igong Maji ritual was intended to ward off destruction and evil caused by the Suremyeolmangakshimkkot and gather the prosperity caused by the Hwansaengkkot.\n\nAdditionally, the Igong Maji had another function. Because it was believed that the children who died under the age of fifteen would assist in raising the magical flowers, parents who lost their children prayed to Igong to not harass their children.\n\nThe Igong Maji was done in the hall of the house. In the hall was a large table, filled with sacrifices for the Igong. The sacrifices included rice, sirutteok,fish, fruits, vegetables, eggs, wine, and a Jeju Island cuisine called dollaetteok. The essential ingredients of the Igong Maji were the Suremyeolmangaksimkkot and the Hwansaengkkot. A bundle of entertwined ropes symbolized the Suremyeolmangaksimkkot, and cammelia flowers placed in a bowl of rice symbolized the Hwansaengkkot.\n\nThe Igong Maji was divided into seven parts.\n"}
{"id": "2223732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2223732", "title": "Ihsan", "text": "Ihsan\n\nIhsan ( \"ʾiḥsān\", also Romanized \"ehsan\"), is an Arabic term meaning \"perfection\" or \"excellence\" (Ara. \"husn\"). It is a matter of taking one's inner faith (\"iman\") and showing it in both deed and action, a sense of social responsibility borne from religious convictions. In Islam, ihsan is the Muslim responsibility to obtain perfection, or excellence, in worship, such that Muslims try to worship God as if they see him, and although they cannot see him, they undoubtedly believe that he is constantly watching over them. That definition comes from the Hadith of Gabriel in which Muhammad states, \"[Ihsan is] to worship God as though you see Him, and if you cannot see Him, then indeed He sees you\". (Al-Bukhari and Al-Muslim).\n\nIhsan, meaning \"to do beautiful things\", is one of the three dimensions of the Islamic religion (Ara. \"ad-din\"): islam, iman and ihsan. In contrast to the emphases of \"islam\" (what one should do) and \"iman\" (why one should do), the concept of ihsan is primarily associated with intention. One who \"does what is beautiful\" is called a \"muhsin\". It is generally held that a person can only achieve true ihsan with the help and guidance of God, who governs all things. While traditionally Islamic jurists have concentrated on Islam and theologians on Iman, the Sufis have focused their attention on Ihsan.\n\nSome Islamic scholars explain ihsan as being the \"inner\" dimension of Islam whereas shariah is often described as the \"outer\" dimension:\nFrom the preceding discussion it should be clear that not every Muslim is a man or woman of faith (\"mu'min\"), but every person of faith is a \"muslim\". Furthermore, a Muslim who believes in all the principles of Islam may not necessarily be a righteous person, a doer of good (\"muhsin\"), but a truly good and righteous person is both a \"muslim\" and a true person of faith.\nIhsan \"constitutes the highest form of worship\" (\"ibadah\"). It is excellence in work and in social interactions. For example, ihsan includes sincerity during Muslim prayers and being grateful to parents, family, and God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16682887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16682887", "title": "Initiation Into Hermetics", "text": "Initiation Into Hermetics\n\nInitiation into Hermetics is the title of the English translation of Franz Bardon's first of three volumes concerning self-realization in line with the Hermetic tradition.\n\nThe book was first published in German in 1956 under the title \"Der Weg zum Wahren Adepten\" by publisher Verlag Hermann Bauer. The first English edition appeared in 1962, published by Osiris Verlag and translated by Alfred Radspieler. A second English translation was published in 1971 by Dieter Rüggeberg. The most recent translation is published by Merkur, the translators of which were: Gerhard Hanswille and Franca Gallo and edited by Ken Johnson.\n\nThe book itself is divided into two sections: the theory section and the practical section.\n\nThe theory section outlines esoteric theory and Hermetic philosophy to help the student when following this course. Topics covered include the elements (fire, air, water and earth plus the fifth, ether), Karma (the law of cause and effect), occult anatomy, the physical, astral and mental planes and the matters of religion and god.\n\nThe practical section is divided into 10 steps. Each step contains physical, astral and mental exercises which the student must master to the degree laid out by Bardon before moving on to the next step. The three kinds of exercises within a step are to be practiced concurrently, the idea being that this will lead to a more balanced development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276856", "title": "Islam in Libya", "text": "Islam in Libya\n\nMost Libyans adhere to the Sunni branch of Islam, which provides both a spiritual guide for individuals and a keystone for government policy. Its tenets stress a unity of religion and state rather than a separation or distinction between the two, and even those Muslims who have ceased to believe fully in Islam retain Islamic habits and attitudes. The post-revolution National Transitional Council has explicitly endeavored to reaffirm Islamic values, enhance appreciation of Islamic culture, elevate the status of Qur'anic law and, to a considerable degree, emphasize Qur'anic practice in everyday Libyan life with legal implementation in accordance to Islamic jurisprudence known as sharia. Libya has a small presence of Ahmadis and Shias consisting of Pakistani immigrants, though unrecongnized by the state .\n\nDuring the seventh century, Muslims, who were spreading their faith, reached Libya to spread the message. The urban centers soon became substantially Islamic, but widespread conversion of the nomads of the desert did not come until after large-scale invasions in the eleventh century by Bedouin tribes from Arabia and Egypt.\n\nA residue of pre-Islamic beliefs blended with the Islam of the Arabs. Hence, popular Islam became an overlay of Quranic ritual and principles upon the vestiges of earlier beliefs—prevalent throughout North Africa—in jinns (spirits), the evil eye, rites to ensure good fortune, and cult veneration of local saints. The educated of the cities and towns served as the primary bearers and guardians of the more austere brand of orthodox Islam.\n\nIslam as practiced in North Africa is interlaced with indigenous Berber beliefs. Although the Sufi orthdoxy preached the unique and inimitable majesty and sanctity of God and the equality of God's believers, an important element of Islam for centuries has been a belief in the coalescence of special spiritual power given by god to particular living human beings. The power is known as Barakah, a transferable quality of personal blessedness and spiritual force said to lodge in certain individuals. Those whose claim to possess barakah can be substantiated—through performance of apparent miracles, exemplary human insight, or genealogical connection with a recognized possessor—are viewed as saints. These persons are known in the West as marabouts, a French transliteration of al murabitun (those who have made a religious retreat), and the benefits of their baraka are believed to accrue to those ordinary people who come in contact with them.\n\nThe true Islamic way of saints became widespread in rural areas; in urban localities, Islam in its Sunni form prevail. Saints were present in Tripolitania, but they were particularly numerous in Cyrenaica. Their baraka continued to reside in their tombs after their deaths. The number of venerated tombs varied from tribe to tribe, although there tended to be fewer among the camel herders of the desert than among the sedentary and nomadic tribes of the plateau area. In one village, a visitor in the late 1960s counted sixteen still-venerated tombs.\n\nCoteries of disciples frequently clustered around particular saints, especially those who preached an original tariqa (devotional \"way\"). Brotherhoods of the followers of such mystical teachers appeared in North Africa at least as early as the eleventh century and in some cases became mass movements. The founder ruled an order of followers, who were organized under the frequently absolute authority of a leader, or shaykh. The brotherhood was centered on a zawiya (pl., zawaya).\n\nBecause of Islam's austere rational and intellectual qualities, many people have felt drawn toward the more emotional and personal ways of knowing God practiced by mystical Islam, or Sufism. Found in many parts of the Muslim world, Sufism endeavored to produce a personal experience of the divine through mystic and ascetic discipline.\n\nSufi adherents gathered into brotherhoods, and Sufi orders became extremely popular, particularly in rural areas. Sufi brotherhoods exercised great influence and ultimately played an important part in the religious revival that swept through North Africa during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. In Libya, when the Ottoman Empire proved unable to mount effective resistance to the encroachment of Christian missionaries, the work was taken over by Sufi-inspired revivalist movements. Among these, the most forceful and effective was that of the Senussi, which extended into numerous parts of North Africa.\n\nThe Senussi movement was a religious revival adapted to desert life. Its \"zawaayaa\" could be found in Tripolitania and Fezzan, but Senussi influence was strongest in Cyrenaica. The Senussi's first theocracy was in the city of Bayda, located in Cyrenaica, and that was the center for them in 1841. After the Italian occupation, the focus turned from government to seminary education and then to the creation of an Islamic University which became in 1960 the University of Mohammed bin Ali al-Sanusi. The arrival of Muammar Gaddafi's rule changed the course of the university. It is now known as the Omar Al-Mukhtar University. Rescuing the region from unrest and anarchy, the Senussi movement gave the Cyrenaican tribal people a religious attachment and feelings of unity and purpose.\n\nThe Senussis formed a nucleus of resistance to the Italian colonial regime (see Italian Colonialism, ch. 1). As the nationalism fostered by unified resistance to the Italians gained adherents, however, the religious fervor of devotion to the movement began to wane, particularly after the Italians destroyed Senussi religious and educational centers during the 1930s. Nonetheless, King Idris, the monarch of independent Libya, was the grandson of the founder of the Senussi movement, and his status as a Senussi gave him the unique ability to command respect from the disparate parts of his kingdom.\n\nDespite its momentary political prominence, the Senussi movement never regained its strength as a religious force after its zawaayaa were destroyed by the Italians. A promised restoration never fully took place, and the Idris regime used the Senussi heritage as a means of legitimizing political authority, rather than of providing religious leadership.\n\nAfter unseating Idris in 1969, the revolutionary government placed restrictions on the operation of the remaining zawaayaa, appointed a supervisor for Senussi properties, and merged the Senussi-sponsored Islamic University with the University of Libya. The movement was virtually banned, but in the 1980s occasional evidence of Senussi activity was nonetheless reported. Senussi inspired activists were instrumental in freeing Cyrenaica from Gaddafi's control during the Libyan Civil War.\n\nUnder the revolutionary Gaddafi government, the role of orthodox Islam in Libyan life became progressively more important. Muammar al-Gaddafi was a highly devout Muslim, with an expressed desire to exalt Islam and to restore it to its proper—i.e., central—place in the life of the people. He believed that the purity of Islam had been sullied through time, particularly by the influence of Europeans, both during and after the colonial period, and that Islam's purity must be restored by such actions as: the restoration of sharia to its proper place as the basis of the Libyan legal system, the banning of \"immodest\" practices and dress, and the symbolic purification of mosques.\n\nGaddafi also believed in the value of the Quran as a moral and political guide for the contemporary world, as is evident from his tract, \"The Green Book\", published in the mid-1970s (see The Green Book, ch. 4). Gaddafi considered the first part of The Green Book to be a commentary on the implications of the Quranic injunction that human affairs be managed by consultation. For him, this meant direct democracy, which is given \"practical meaning\" through the creation of people's committees and popular congresses. Gaddafi felt that, inasmuch as \"The Green Book\" was based solely on the Quran, its provisions should be universally applicable—at least among Muslims.\n\nSoon after taking office, the Gaddafi government showed itself to be devoutly conservative by closing bars and nightclubs, banning entertainment deemed provocative or immodest, and making use of the Muslim calendar mandatory. The intention of reestablishing sharia was announced, and Gaddafi personally assumed chairmanship of a commission to study the problems involved. In November 1973, a new legal code was issued that revised the entire Libyan judicial system to conform to the sharia, and in 1977 the General People's Congress (GPC—see Glossary) issued a statement that all future legal codes would be based on the Quran.\n\nAmong the laws enacted by the Gaddafi government were a series of legal penalties prescribed during 1973 which included the punishment of armed robbery by amputation of a hand and a foot. The legislation contained qualifying clauses making its execution unlikely, but its enactment had the effect of applying Quranic principles in the modern era. Another act prescribed flogging for individuals breaking the fast of Ramadan, and yet another called for eighty lashes to be administered to both men and women guilty of fornication.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Islam played a major role in legitimizing Gaddafi's political and social reforms. By the end of the decade, however, he had begun to attack the religious establishment and several fundamental aspects of Sunni Islam. Gaddafi asserted the transcendence of the Quran as the sole guide to Islamic governance and the unimpeded ability of every Muslim to read and interpret it. He denigrated the roles of the ulama, imams, and Islamic jurists and questioned the authenticity of the hadith, and thereby the sunna, as a basis for Islamic law. The sharia itself, Gaddafi maintained, governed only such matters as properly fell within the sphere of religion; all other matters lay outside the purview of religious law. Finally, he called for a revision of the Muslim calendar, saying it should date from Muhammad's death in 632, an event he felt was more momentous than the hijra ten years earlier.\n\nThese unorthodox views on the hadith, sharia, and the Islamic era aroused a good deal of unease. They seemed to originate from Gaddafi's conviction that he possessed the transcendent ability to interpret the Quran and to adapt its message to modern life. Equally, they reinforced the view that he was a reformer but not a literalist in matters of the Quran and Islamic tradition. On a practical level, however, several observers agreed that Gaddafi was less motivated by religious convictions than by political calculations. By espousing these views and by criticizing the ulama, he was using religion to undermine a segment of the middle class that was notably vocal in opposing his economic policies in the late 1970s. But Gaddafi clearly considered himself an authority on the Quran and Islam and was not afraid to challenge traditional religious authority. He also was not prepared to tolerate dissent.\n\nThe revolutionary government gave repeated evidence of its desire to establish Libya as a leader of the Islamic world. Moreover, Gaddafi's efforts to create an Arab nation through political union with other Arab states were also based on a desire to create a great Islamic nation. Indeed, Gaddafi drew little distinction between the two.\n\nThe government took a leading role in supporting Islamic institutions and in worldwide proselytizing on behalf of Islam. The Jihad Fund, supported by a payroll tax, was established in 1970 to aid the Palestinians in their struggle with Israel. The Faculty of Islamic Studies and Arabic at the University of Benghazi was charged with training Muslim intellectual leaders for the entire Islamic world, and the Islamic Mission Society used public funds for the construction and repair of mosques and Islamic educational centers in cities as widely separated as Vienna and Bangkok. The Islamic Call Society (Ad Dawah) was organized with government support to propagate Islam abroad, particularly throughout Africa, and to provide funds to Muslims everywhere. The symbolic purification major urban mosques took place in 1978.\n\nGaddafi was forthright in his belief in the perfection of Islam and his desire to propagate it. His commitment to the open propagation of Islam, among other reasons, caused him to oppose the Muslim Brotherhood, an Egyptian-based fundamentalist movement that used clandestine and sometimes subversive means to spread Islam and to eliminate Western influences. Although the Brotherhood's activities in Libya were banned in the mid-1980s, it remained present in the country maintaining a low profile. In 1983 a member of the brotherhood was executed in Tripoli, and in 1986 a group of Brotherhood adherents was arrested after the murder of a high-ranking political official in Benghazi. The Muslim Brotherhood had spread throughout Libya, but were particularly strong in the cities of Benghazi, Bayda, Derna and Ajdabiya. Gaddafi challenged the Brotherhood to establish itself openly in non-Muslim countries and promised its leaders that, if it did, he would financially support its activities. No support was ever forthcoming.\n\nGaddafi stressed the universal applicability of Islam, but he also reaffirmed the special status assigned by Muhammad to Christians. He likened Christians to misguided Muslims who strayed from the correct path. Furthermore, Gaddafi assumed leadership of a drive to rid Africa of Christianity as well as of the colonialism with which he associated it, despite the fact that Christianity's presence in Libya long predates Islam or its presence in much of Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12800967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12800967", "title": "John Stronach", "text": "John Stronach\n\nJohn Stronach (1810-1888), younger brother of Alexander Stronach, was a Protestant Christian missionary who served with the London Missionary Society during the late Qing Dynasty China, working primarily at Xiamen [Amoy]. Stronach participated in the translation of bible into Chinese.\n\n"}
{"id": "8125699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8125699", "title": "Joseph Taitazak", "text": "Joseph Taitazak\n\nJoseph ben Solomon Ṭaiṭazaḳ (), also referred to by the acronym \"MahaRITaTS\", was a talmudic authority and kabalist who lived at Salonica in the 15th and 16th centuries. He was a member of the Taitazak family.\n\nWith his father and brother Judah ben Solomon Taitazak, he moved in 1492 from Spain, his native land, to Salonica, where he became a rabbi.\n\nHe was regarded as one of the most mysterious Kabbalists of the 17th century and one of the leading rabbinical figures in Jerusalem and Damascus. He discussed magic squares, which allude to the highest and most concealed concepts and their use within amulets. Many references can be found in writings of contemporary and leading Kabbalists, such as Rabbi Joseph Tirshom's manuscript (ca. 1550 CE) \"Shoshan Yesod Olam\" (The Rose, Foundation of the Universe), Rabbi Eljah Baal Shem's \"Toledot Adam\" (Generation of Adam) and Rabbi Isaiah Horowitz's (1560-1630 CE) \"Sh'nei Luchot HaB'rit\" (Two Tablets of the Covenant) discuss the magic square in relation to the mysteries of creation.\n\nHe was a fervent adherent of the Kabbalah, in which he was well versed, and led an ascetic life. Elijah de Vidas, in his \"Reshit Ḥokmah\" (\"Sha'ar ha-Ḳedushshah,\" ch. vii), relates that with the exception of Sabbath nights, Joseph for forty years never slept in a bed, but on a box, with his feet on the ground. With such a disposition to asceticism and mysticism it was but natural that Joseph should become enthralled by the Messianic vagaries of Solomon Molcho, whom he supported while preaching at Salonica in 1529. Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan writes, \"Rabbi Joseph Taitazak was apparently influenced by Abulafia's school of Kabbalah, and many ideas that he discusses seem to be taken verbatim from Abulafia's writings.\"\n\nHe was also considered one of the greatest Talmudists of his time, with even Joseph Caro invoking his authority (\"Abḳat Rokel,\" §56). Among Joseph's disciples were Isaac Adarbi, Samuel di Medina, and Shlomo Halevi Alkabetz.\n\nHe was the author of the following works:\n\n"}
{"id": "12667053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12667053", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Guatemala", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Guatemala\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Guatemala forms a single, entirely Latin Episcopal conference.\n\nIt comprises two ecclesiastical provinces (each headed by a Metropolitan Archbishop, with a total of 11 suffragan dioceses), three missionary pre-diocesan jurisdictions: one territorial prelature and two Apostolic vicariates, each headed by a (residential or titular) Bishop.\n\nThe only former jurisdictions have been promoted to their present status.\n\nThese are directly dependent on the Holy See, notably the Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12686682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686682", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Dominican Republic", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Dominican Republic\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in the Dominican Republic comprises two ecclesiastical provinces, each headed by an archbishop. Each province is subdivided into an archdiocese and dioceses (nine in total), each headed by a bishop or an archbishop.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23092056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23092056", "title": "List of National Treasures of Japan (sculptures)", "text": "List of National Treasures of Japan (sculptures)\n\nIn the mid-6th century, the introduction of Buddhism from Korea (Baekje) to Japan resulted in a revival of Japanese sculpture. Buddhist monks, artisans and scholars settled around the capital in Yamato Province (present day Nara Prefecture) and passed their techniques to native craftsmen. Consequently, early Japanese sculptures from the Asuka and Hakuhō periods show strong influences of continental art, which initially were characterized by almond-shaped eyes, upward-turned crescent-shaped lips and symmetrically arranged folds in the clothing. The workshop of the Japanese sculptor Tori Busshi, who was strongly influenced by the Northern Wei style, produced works which exemplify such characteristics. The Shakyamuni triad and the Guze Kannon at Hōryū-ji are prime examples. By the late 7th century, wood replaced bronze and copper. By the early Tang dynasty, greater realism was expressed by fuller forms, long narrow slit eyes, softer facial features, flowing garments and embellishments with ornaments such as bracelets and jewels. Two prominent examples of sculptures of this period are the Shō Kannon at Yakushi-ji and the Yumechigai Kannon at Hōryū-ji.\n\nDuring the Nara period, from 710 to 794, the government established and supported workshops called zōbussho, the most prominent of which was located in the capital Nara at Tōdai-ji, which produced Buddhist statuary. Clay, lacquer and wood, in addition to bronze, were used. Stylistically, the sculptures were influenced by the high Tang style, showing fuller body modelling, more natural drapery and a greater sense of movement. Representative examples of Nara period sculpture include the Great Buddha and the Four Heavenly Kings at Tōdai-ji, or the Eight Legions at Kōfuku-ji.\n\nEarly Heian period works before the mid-10th century appear heavy compared to Nara period statues, carved from single blocks of wood, and characterised by draperies carved with alternating round and sharply cut folds. Stylistically, they followed high to later Tang style. In the Heian period the zōbussho were replaced with temple-run and independent workshops; wood became the primary medium; and a specific Japanese style emerged. By the mid-10th century, the style was refined presenting a more calm and gentle appearance, with attenuated proportions. Jōchō was the most important sculptor of this time, and he used the \"yosegi\" technique, in which several pieces of wood are joined to sculpt a single figure. He was the ancestor of three important schools of Japanese Buddhist statuary: the , Inpa and Keiha school. The Amida Nyorai at Byōdō-in is the only extant work by Jōchō.\nJapanese sculpture experienced a renaissance during the Kamakura period, led by the Kei school. Partially influenced by Song dynasty China, their sculpture is characterised by realism featuring elaborate top knots, jewelry, and wavy drapery. Although predominantly wooden, bronze was also used as a material for the statues. As a novelty, portrait sculptures of prominent monks were created adjacent to the depiction of Buddhist deities.\n\nThe term \"National Treasure\" has been used in Japan to denote cultural properties since 1897.\nThe definition and the criteria have changed since the inception of the term. These sculptures adhere to the current definition, and have been designated national treasures since the Law for the Protection of Cultural Properties came into force on June 9, 1951. The items are selected by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology based on their \"especially high historical or artistic value\". This list presents 136 entries of sculptures, including those from Classical and early Feudal Japan of the 7th-century Asuka period to the 13th-century Kamakura period, although the number of sculptures is higher, because groups of related sculptures have sometimes been joined to form single entries. The sculptures listed depict Buddhist and Shintō deities or priests venerated as founders of temples. Some of the most ancient sculptures were imported directly from China.\n\nVarious materials have been used for the sculptures. Although most are wooden, 12 entries in the list are bronze, 11 are lacquer, 7 are made of clay and 1 entry, the Usuki Stone Buddhas, is a stone sculpture. Typically hinoki, Japanese nutmeg, sandalwood and camphorwood were the woods used for the wooden sculptures. Wooden sculptures were often lacquered or covered with gold-leaf. The smallest statue measures around , whereas the Great Buddhas of Nara and Kamakura are about and high. The objects on the list are located in Buddhist temples, or in museums associated with temples. Some items are located in shrines, as well as in secular museums.\n\nNara Prefecture is home to the largest number of National Treasure sculptures, with 75 of the 136 entries. Together with the 39 entries located in Kyoto Prefecture, they constitute the bulk of sculptural National Treasures. Hōryū-ji and Kōfuku-ji are the locations with the most entries, with 17 and 18 designations respectively.\n\nThe table's columns (except for \"Remarks\" and \"Pictures\") are sortable pressing the arrows symbols. The following gives an overview of what is included in the table and how the sorting works.\n\n"}
{"id": "3842752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842752", "title": "Maid of Lorraine prophecies", "text": "Maid of Lorraine prophecies\n\nFor some years before and around the time of activity of Joan of Arc, a number of vague prophecies concerning a young Maid who would save France were circulating. The prophecies were attributed to several sources, including St. Bede the Venerable, Euglide of Hungary, and Merlin. Some of these spoke of a Maid who was supposed to come from the \"borders of Lorraine\". Since Joan's village was near the border between France and the Duchy of Lorraine in the Holy Roman Empire, at the time many in France believed in her.\n\nDuring her examination at Poitiers, Joan was reportedly questioned about a recent prophecy attributed, perhaps incorrectly, to Marie d'Avignon () concerning an armed woman who was to save the Kingdom. One version of the prophecies had it that the Maid would come forth from an oak wood and would work miracles, although when questioned about this version of the prophecy at her trial, Joan said she did not place any faith in that one. \n\nRehabilitation trial testimony also brought up the subject of such prophecies. Durand Laxart, Joan's uncle, who accompanied Joan on both of her journeys to Vaucouleurs, reported at the rehabilitation trial that Joan had told him: \"Was it not said that France would be ruined through a woman and afterwards restored by a virgin?\". Catherine Royer, with whom Joan stayed while at Vaucouleurs on her second visit in January and February 1429, also reported substantially the same thing.\n\nIn any case, it is known that such prophecies were widely known in France at around that time and that many in France among the supporters of the Dauphin identified Joan with the Maiden in the prophecies and this identification contributed to her popularity and following.\n"}
{"id": "2890429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890429", "title": "Mount Jiuhua", "text": "Mount Jiuhua\n\nMount Jiuhua () is one of the four sacred mountains of Chinese Buddhism. It is located in Qingyang County in Anhui province and is famous for its rich landscape and ancient temples.\n\nMany of the mountain's shrines and temples are dedicated to Ksitigarbha (known in Chinese as Dìzàng, , in Japanese as Jizō), who is a bodhisattva and protector of beings in hell realms according to Mahayana Buddhist tradition. Pious Buddhists often visit Anhui to climb to Greater Tiantai peak, which is regarded as Jiuhuashan's most important peak, although it is not the tallest.\n\nMount Jiuhua was called Mount Lingyang in Han Dynasty. It was called Mount Jiuzi (九子山) in Liang and Chen Dynasties of South Dynasties. A legend says that the great poet Li Bai of Tang Dynasty travelled here and wrote down \"Magic is divided to two branches, sacred mountain generates nine glories.\" (妙有分二气，灵山开九华). Thus it was named Mount Jiuhua.\n\nJiuHuashan is delicately beautiful which is located in the southeastern part of Chizhou City, in Quingyang County of Anhui Province. The gross area reaches 120 square kilometers, while the protection area reaches 114 square kilometers. Shiwang Peak is the highest one with an elevation of 1342 meters above sea level. Together with Wutai Mountain in Shanxi, Emei Mountain in Sichuan and Putuo Mountain in Zhejiang. Jiuhua Mountain is called one of the four great Buddhist mountains in China. In 719 AD, Kim Qiaoque, a Silla prince (today's Qingzhou city in South Korea) came to Jiuhua Mountain and cultivated himself for 75 years. He died at 99 years of age, his corporeal body stayed intact. Because he was very similar in appearance to Dizang Buddhisattva, the monks there believed Dizang Boddhisattva was reincarnated in him, as a result, Jiuhua Mountain became the place to hold rites for Dizang Boddhisatva. During the golden periods of the Ming and Qing dynasties, there were as many as 360 temples and 4,000 to 5,000 monks and nuns. The mountain is not only famous for its Buddhist culture but also noted for its natural landscapes featuring old pines, green bamboo forests, strange rocks, waterfalls, streams and caves.\n\nMount Jiuhua was originally known as Jiuzi (Nine-Peak) Mountain. But ever since Li Bai, the celebrated poet in the Tang Dynasty wrote of the mountain,\n\nSailing down the Jiujiang River the other day, I saw the Jiuhua Peaks in the distance. Looking like a heavenly river hanging in heaven, Its green water embroidering cotton rose hibiscuses.\n\nthe mountain was renamed Jiuhua Mountain. As a popular pilgrimage destination, it was very famous in the southeastern part of China and became one of the four holy mountains of Buddhism. Since its opening in 1979, Jiuhua Mountain, with its abundant Buddhist culture and uniquely attractive scenery, has enjoyed a high reputation in southeast Asia, South Korea and Japan. It is known as the mountain of Dizang Buddhisattva and for having a large number of whole Buddhist relics. There are 99 peaks in the area, among them Shiwang Peak, Lotus Peak, and others.\n\nSome renowned temples located at Mount Jiuhua includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41209344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209344", "title": "Mudutā", "text": "Mudutā\n\nMadutā (Pali) is a Buddhist term translated as \"malleability\", and it is the basis for the following pair of mental factors within the Theravada Abhidharma teachings:\n\nThese two mental factors have the characteristic of the subsiding of rigidity (\"thambha\") in the mental body and consciousness, respectively.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nNina van Gorkom explains:\n\nThe \"Atthasālinī\" (I, Book I, Part IV, Chapter I, 130) states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14905568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14905568", "title": "New Commandment", "text": "New Commandment\n\nThe New Commandment is a term used in Christianity to describe Jesus's commandment to \"love one another\" which, according to the Bible, was given as part of the final instructions to his disciples after the Last Supper had ended, and after Judas Iscariot had departed in .\n\nThis commandment appears thirteen times in twelve verses in the New Testament. Theologically, this commandment is interpreted as dual to the Love of Christ for his followers. The commandment can also be seen as the last wish in the Farewell Discourse to the disciples.\n\nAccording to Scott Hahn, while the Torah commanded human love, Jesus commands divine love for one another that is modeled on his own acts of charity.\n\nThe statement of the new commandment by Jesus in John 13:34-35 was after the Last Supper, and after the departure of Judas. The commandment was prefaced in John 13:34 by Jesus telling his remaining disciples, as little children, that he will be with them for only a short time, then will leave them.\n\nIn the commandment Jesus told the disciples: \"Love one another; as I have loved you\".\n\nJust after the commandment, and before the Farewell Discourse the first reference to Peter's Denials took place, where Jesus predicted that Peter would deny him three times before the cock crow.\n\nTwo similar statements also appear in chapter 15 of the Gospel of John:\n\n\nThe Johannine writings include other, similar passages.\n\n\nSimilarly, the Second Epistle of John states:\n\nThe Pauline Epistles also contain similar references.\n\n\nThe First Epistle of Peter has a similar statement:\n\n\nThe \"New Commandment\" concerns the love for neighbour and is the second part of the Great Commandment. Its first part is the love for God, as it is stated also by the first of the Ten Commandments: \"Thou shalt have no other gods before me\".\n\nThe \"New Commandment\", the \"Wycliffe Bible Commentary\" states, \"was new in that the love was to be exercised toward others not because they belonged to the same nation, but because they belonged to Christ ... and the love of Christ which the disciples had seen ... would be a testimony to the world\".\n\nOne of the \"novelties\" introduced by this commandment – perhaps justifying its designation as \"New\" – is that Jesus \"introduces himself as a standard for love\". The usual criterion had been \"as you love yourself\". However, the New Commandmant goes beyond \"as you love yourself\" as found in the ethic of reciprocity and states \"as I have loved you\", using the Love of Christ for his disciples as the new model.\n\nThe First Epistle of John reflects the theme of love being an \"imitation of Christ\", with stating: \"We love, because he first loved us.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4826098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4826098", "title": "Para-Scientology", "text": "Para-Scientology\n\nPara-Scientology (or Parascientology) is a branch of Scientology which deals with all things unknown.\n\nL. Ron Hubbard, founder of the Church of Scientology, defined it this way in the book \"Scientology: The Fundamentals of Thought\":\n\"Para-Scientology includes all of the uncertainties and unknown territories of life which have not been completely explored and explained.\"\n\nHubbard sometimes used the term to differentiate between things that he considered facts and absolute certainties, and things that were still partially undetermined and on the cutting edge of Scientology research.\nOne such example can be found in Hubbard's book \"Scientology: A New Slant on Life\":\n\"In Para-Scientology, there is some evidence that the stomach once produced sufficient life energy to motivate the body without any further 'food', but the body of man and beasts in general is not equipped so today, and of that we are very certain\".\n\nOn other occasions, Hubbard used the term to simply designate basic Scientology concepts that were not fully grasped by beginning Scientologists (pre-clears), and must remain \"Para-Scientological\" to that person until he or she accepts them as fact:\n\"Some of the classified bodies of data which fall in Para-Scientology are: Dianetics, incidents on the \"wholetrack\", the immortality of Man, the existence of God, engrams containing pain and unconsciousness and yet all perception, prenatals, clears, character, and many other things which, even when closely and minutely observed, still are not certain things to those who observe them. Such things have relative truth\".\n\n\"Para-Scientology\" was also a Hubbard lecture recorded in the 1950s but only released in 2002 as part of the Classic Lecture Series by the Church of Scientology. It focuses specifically on so-called \"paranormal\" subjects from a Scientological perspective, such as witches, ghouls, demons and \"the nasty problem of werewolves\".\n\nGeorge Malko, in his book \"\", sees the differentiation between Scientology and Para-Scientology as tenuous and relative. He writes:\nThe notion of a Scientology and a Para-Scientology confounds only because with continued development of various avenues of thinking, it became increasingly difficult to separate what was a concrete Scientological \"consideration,\" and what represented Para-Scientology's \"highly specialized system in order to observe them at all.\" That there is no true division between the two categories is evident from the Axioms, which represent the fundamental substance of all which Scientology believes, and which Hubbard calls \"commonly held considerations\". \nMalko also points out that Hubbard states in 1954's \"The Creation of Human Ability\" that the concept of \"past lives\" was only a theory. However, by 1960 and the publication of \"Have You Lived Before This Life\", Hubbard was insisting past lives are not a theory,but a fact proven by experiments with his e-meter.\n\nProfessor Stephen A. Kent, in his paper \"The Creation of 'Religious' Scientology\" noted that in 1953 (before Scientology became a religion),\n\"Hubbard began making tentative connections between Scientology and religion. He formulated the awkward category, \"Para-Scientology,\" in which he placed what he called \"all greater or lesser uncertainties\" such as 'Dianetics, incidents on the 'whole track,' the immortality of Man, the existence of God,\" as well as \"past lives, mysterious influences, astrology, mysticism, religion, psychology, psychiatry, nuclear physics and any other science based on theory' (Hubbard, 1953c: 377). Scientology, Hubbard asserted, was the science of certainty, and Dianetics (like the other beliefs and practices that he mentioned) 'is a specialized thing based on theory which, no matter how workable, requires specialized observation'... Presumably this distinction makes sense to some of Hubbard's followers\". (\"Religious Studies and Theology\" journal, Vol.18, No.2 (December 1999) \n\n"}
{"id": "8102306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8102306", "title": "Parivar Vichora", "text": "Parivar Vichora\n\nParivar Vichora(In Punjabi ਪਰੀਵਾਰ ਵਿਛੋੜਾ ਗੁਰੁਦੁਆਰਾ, In Hindi परिवार विछोड़ा गुरुद्वारा) is a Gurdwara situated on the bank of the river Sirsa. This is where the 10th Guru of Sikh, Guru Gobind SIngh Ji's, family got separated.\n\nThis Gurdwara Sahib signifies the tragic happenings that followed the evacuation of Anandpur Sahib by Guru Gobind Singh during the night of 5–6 December 1705 after agreement was reached between the Sikhs and the Mughal authorities. The Mughal army commander had promised to allow the Sikhs to leave the fort unmolested. On the morning of 6 December 1705, the Guru arrived at this place by the river Sirsa and decided to make a brief halt for the morning religious congregation. However, the Mughal army commander broke the oath taken on Quran and attacked the Guru on the bank of the river. The Sikhs found that the Sirsa river was flooded and swollen by the monsoon rains.\n\nAfter invoking the blessings of the Almighty, Guru Gobind Singh divided his columns into two. While the part of the force was to engage against the enemy, the others were ordered to get across the river. The Guru followed by a small party of Sikhs, rode their horses into the swollen stream with swords in their hands. Guruji along with his four sons and 50 followers and ladies of the home reached the other bank. Many Sikhs died crossing the river. In the chaos two younger sons of the Guru along with their grandmother, got separated.\n\nThough some Sikhs got safely across the river, Guru Gobind Singh's family got split and were no longer together. There was no time to look for the missing as the army was close by. The Guru with his two elder sons and 40 Sikhs marched towards Chamkaur. Mata Sahib Kaur Ji escorted by few Sikhs reached Delhi, while his aged mother and two younger sons were escorted by a servant Gangu to his village in Morinda.\nAt this holy spot Gurudwara Parivar Vichhora, was built by grateful devotees of the great Guru. It marks the place where the Guru's family was separated from the main body of the Sikhs. The Gurdwara is on a hill top, and commands a panoramic view of the surrounding valley. One has to climb 100 odd steps to reach it.\n\nIt is situated near the bank of river Sirsa in the village Majri, Rupnagar, Punjab 140114.\n"}
{"id": "1972169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972169", "title": "Parson", "text": "Parson\n\nIn the pre-Reformation church, a parson is the priest of an independent parish church, that is, a parish church not under the control of a larger ecclesiastical or monastic organization. The term is similar to rector and is in contrast to a vicar, a cleric whose revenue is usually, at least partially, appropriated by a larger organization. Today the term is normally used for some parish clergy of non-Roman Catholic churches, in particular in the Anglican tradition in which a parson is the incumbent of a parochial benefice: a parish priest or a rector; in this sense a parson can be compared with a vicar. The title \"parson\" can be applied to clergy from certain other Protestant denominations. A parson is often housed in a church-owned home known as a parsonage.\n\nWilliam Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" says that a \"parson\" is a parish priest with the fullest legal rights to the parish properties:\n\nLegally, parish priests are separately given spiritual and temporal jurisdiction (they are instituted and inducted). The spiritual responsibility is termed the \"cure of souls\", and one holding such a cure is a curate, which was also given to parish assistants, or assistant curates. The title \"parson\", however, refers to the temporal jurisdiction over the churches and glebe. Depending on how the tithes were apportioned, a parson may be a rector or a vicar. A parish priest who received no tithes was legally a \"perpetual curate\" (to distinguish him from assistant curates). \n\nHowever, historically, many perpetual curates, as they were technically parsons (having temporal jurisdiction), preferred to use this latter title. This led to the term \"parson\" having three senses. It could refer to any clergyman who was in charge of the parish church (rectors, vicars or perpetual curates) without distinction; it could, through actual use, refer simply to perpetual curates, or it could, through popular use, refer to any member of the clergy, even assistant curates. An Act of Parliament in 1868, changed the way that parochial clergy were paid, and permitted perpetual curates to be called vicars. This led to the rapid abandonment of the title \"parson\" in favour of \"vicar\", to the extent that now, as previously for parson, the term \"vicar\" is often used for any cleric of the Church of England. \n\nIn Ulster, in the early 17th century, every parish had a vicar and a parson instead of a co-arb and an erenagh. The vicar, like the co-arb, was always in orders. He said the mass (‘serveth the cure’) and received a share of the tithes. The parson, like the erenagh, had a major portion of the tithes, maintained the church and provided hospitality. As he was not usually in clerical orders, his responsibilities were mainly temporal.\n\nHowever, there were differences in the divisions of the tithes between various dioceses in Tyrone. In the Diocese of Clogher, the vicar and the parson shared the tithes equally between them; in the Diocese of Derry, church income came from both tithes and the rental of church lands (‘temporalities’). The vicar and the parson each received one third of the tithes and paid an annual tribute to the bishop. In places where there was no parson, the erenagh continued to receive two thirds of the income in kind from the church lands, and delivered the balance, after defraying maintenance, to the Bishop in cash as a yearly rental. In other places, the parson, the vicar and the erenagh shared the costs of church repairs equally between them. In the Diocese of Armagh the parson received two-thirds of the tithes and the vicar one third. The archbishop and the erenagh impropriated no part thereof because they received the entire income from the termon lands.\n\n"}
{"id": "42867859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42867859", "title": "Qarinvand dynasty", "text": "Qarinvand dynasty\n\nThe Qarinvand dynasty (also spelled Karinvand, Karenvand, and Qarenvand), or simply the Karinids or Qarinids, was an Iranian dynasty that ruled in parts of Tabaristan (Mazandaran) in what is now northern Iran from the 550s until the 11th-century. They considered themselves as the inheritors of the Dabuyid dynasty, and were known by their titles of \"Gilgilan\" and \"Ispahbadh\". They were descended from Sukhra, a Parthian nobleman from the House of Karen, who was the \"de facto\" ruler of the Sasanian Empire from 484 to 493.\n\nThe dynasty was founded by Karen, who in return for aiding the Sasanian king Khosrow I (r. 531–579) against the Turks, received land to the south of Amol in Tabaristan. During the 7th century, an unnamed ruler Qarinvand dynasty was granted parts of Tabaristan by the Dabuyids who ruled in the area. In 760, the Dabuyid ruler Khurshid was defeated, his dynasty abolished and Tabaristan annexed by the Abbasids, but the Qarinvand and other minor local dynasties continued in existence. At this time, a certain Vindadhhurmuzd is mentioned as the Qarinvand ruler, while his younger brother Vindaspagan ruled as a subordinate ruler over the western Qarinvand regions, which reached as far as Dailam, a region controlled by the Dailamites, who like the Qarinvands and other rulers of Tabaristan were Zoroastrians.\n\nVindadhhurmuzd, along with the Bavandid ruler Sharwin I, led the native resistance to Muslim rule and the efforts at Islamization and settlement begun by the Abbasid governor, Khalid ibn Barmak (768–772). Following his departure, the native princes destroyed the towns he had built in the highlands, and although in 781 they affirmed loyalty to the Caliphate, in 782 they launched a general anti-Muslim revolt that was not suppressed until 785, when Sa'id al-Harashi led 40,000 troops into the region. Relations with the caliphal governors in the lowlands improved thereafter, but the Qarinvand and Bavandid princes remained united in their opposition to Muslim penetration of the highlands, to the extent that they prohibited even the burial of Muslims there. Isolated acts of defiance like the murder of a tax collector occurred, but when the two princes were summoned before Harun al-Rashid in 805 they promised loyalty and the payment of a tax, and were forced to leave their sons behind as hostages for four years.\n\nVindadhhurmuzd later died in 815, and was succeeded by his son Qarin ibn Vindadhhurmuzd, who along with Sharwin's successor Shahriyar I was requested by the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun to aid in the Arab–Byzantine wars. Shahriyar declined the request, while Qarin accepted, and became successful in his campaign against the Byzantines. Qarin was then bestowed with many honors by Al-Ma'mun. Shahriyar, jealous of Qarin's fame, began annexing some of the latter's territory. In 817, during the reign of Qarin's son Mazyar, Shahriyar, with the aid of Mazyar's uncle Vinda-Umid, expelled the latter from Tabaristan, and seized all his territories.\n\nMazyar fled to the court of al-Ma'mun, became a Muslim and in 822/23 returned with the support of the Abbasid governor to exact revenge: Shahriyar's son and successor, Shapur, was defeated and killed, and Mazyar united the highlands under his own rule. His growing power brought him into conflict with the Muslim settlers at Amul, but he was able to take the city and receive acknowledgement of his rule over all of Tabaristan from the caliphal court. Eventually, however, he quarreled with Abdallah ibn Tahir, and in 839, he was captured by the Tahirids, who now took over control of Tabaristan. The Bavandids exploited the opportunity to regain their ancestral lands: Shapur's brother, Qarin I, assisted the Tahirids against Mazyar, and was rewarded with his brother's lands and royal title.\n\nQuhyar, a brother of Mazyar, who had betrayed the latter and chose to aid the Tahirids, who promised him the Qarinvand throne, shortly ascended the Qarivand throne, but was shortly killed by his own Dailamite soldiers because of his betrayal against his brother. Although many scholars considered the death of Quhyar as the fall of the Qarinvand dynasty, the dynasty continued to rule in parts of Tabaristan, and a certain Baduspan ibn Gurdzad is mentioned in 864 as the ruler of the Qarinvand dynasty, and is known to have supported the Alid Hasan ibn Zayd. However, his son and successor Shahriyar ibn Baduspan was hostile to Hasan ibn Zayd, but was along with the Bavandid ruler Rustam I forced to acknowledge his authority. Shahriyar's son Muhammad ibn Shahriyar is later mentioned as the later of the Qarivand dynasty in 917, and was like his father hostile to the Alids. Two centuries later, a certain Qarinvand ruler named Amir Mahdi is mentioned in 1106 as one of the vassals of the Bavandid ruler Shahriyar IV. After him, no other Qarinvand ruler is known, but they continued to rule until the 11th-century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23460552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23460552", "title": "Richard Henry Ackerman", "text": "Richard Henry Ackerman\n\nRichard Henry Ackerman, C.S.Sp. (August 30, 1903 – November 18, 1992) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. A member of the Holy Ghost Fathers, he served as Bishop of Covington from 1960 to 1978.\n\nRichard Ackerman was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to John and Josephine (née Richard) Ackerman. After graduating from Duquesne University High School, he entered the Duquesne University School of Drama in 1920. He entered the Congregation of the Holy Ghost in 1921 and made his religious profession at Ridgefield, Connecticut on August 15, 1922. He was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Maurice F. McAuliffe on August 28, 1926.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1940, Ackerman served as master of novices for the Holy Ghost Fathers, assistant pastor of St. Benedict the Moor Parish in Pittsburgh, assistant to the National Director of the Pontifical Association of the Holy Childhood, assistant to the professor of philosophy at St. Mary Seminary in Norwalk, and assistant pastor at St. Mary Parish in Detroit, Michigan. He was named National Director of the Holy Childhood Association in 1941, and Vice-President of the Association's Superior Council in 1947. Upon the Silver Jubilee of his priestly ordination in 1951, he was presented with the Grand Cross \"Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice\" by Pope Pius XII.\n\nOn April 6, 1956, Ackerman was appointed Auxiliary Bishop of San Diego, California and Titular Bishop of \"Lares\". He received his episcopal consecration on the following May 22 from Bishop John Dearden, with Bishops Jean Gay, C.S.Sp., and Thomas McDonnell serving as co-consecrators, at St. Paul's Cathedral. He was later named the seventh Bishop of Covington, Kentucky by Pope John XXIII on April 4, 1960, and installed at the Cathedral Basilica of the Assumption on the following May 17. From 1962 to 1965, he attended the Second Vatican Council, where he was a member of the conservative \"Coetus Internationalis Patrum\".\n\nUpon reaching the mandatory retirement age of 75, Ackerman resigned as Bishop on November 28, 1978, after 18 years of service. He later died at age 89, and is buried at St. Mary Cemetery in Fort Mitchell.\n"}
{"id": "2318974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2318974", "title": "Romuald D'Souza", "text": "Romuald D'Souza\n\nRev. Fr. Romuald D'Souza (born 20 December 1925, Aldona, Goa, India) is a Jesuit priest and the Founder Director of Goa Institute of Management.\nDirector of XLRI, Jamshedpur from 1982–1989. In 1987, he founded Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar and was its Director till 1993. Fr. De Souza has served as a Member of various academic organisations, like the Association of Management Development Institutes of South Asia, the All India Board of Management Studies, Government of India, the Executive Council of the Goa University, the Academic Council of Utkal University. He is a professional member of the Academy of Management (USA), International Council of Psychologists and the American Psychological Society. He teaches Business Ethics, Management of stress, Psychometrics and Organisational behaviour. He has also founded Marian Institute of Healthcare Management, Goa\n\nOn 26 January 2010 he was announced as a recipient of the Padma Shri award for his contribution to Education and Literature.\n"}
{"id": "49016147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49016147", "title": "Rudolf Breslauer", "text": "Rudolf Breslauer\n\nWerner Rudolf Breslauer (4 July 1903 – 28 February 1945) was a German photographer of Jewish descent.\n\nBreslauer was born in Leipzig, where he was trained as a photographer and as a printer. In 1938, he fled to the Netherlands, where he lived and worked in Leiden, Alphen and Utrecht. In 1942, Breslauer, his wife Bella Weissmann, sons Mischa and Stefan and daughter Ursula were imprisoned and deported to Westerbork transit camp. \nCamp commander ordered Breslauer to make photographs and films of life in Westerbork. Breslauer and his family were transported to Auschwitz in the autumn of 1944. His wife and two sons were immediately killed, Rudolf Breslauer died a few months later. Their daughter Ursula survived the war.\n\nThe German camp commander, Albert Gemmeker ordered Breslauer to document everyday life in the Westerbork transit camp. In 2017, these films were submitted by the Netherlands and included in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register.\n\n"}
{"id": "57303941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57303941", "title": "Satish Chandra Vidyabhusan", "text": "Satish Chandra Vidyabhusan\n\nSatish Chandra Vidyabhusan (30 July 1870 - 25 April 1920) was a Bengali scholar of Sanskrit and Pali Language and principal of Sanskrit College.\n\nSatish Chandra Vidyabhusan was born in 1870 in Rajbari District, British India. His father Pitambar Vidyavagish was a \"Pandit\" and astronomer. In 1888, Satish Chandra passed entrance from Nabadwip Hindu School and in 1892, passed the B.A with Sanskrit Honours from Krishnagar Government College with gold medal. He was the first Indian who obtain M.A degree in Pali from Calcutta University.\n\nVidyabhushan was known for his distinguished knowledge in Indian logic and Tibetan Buddhist Text. He, along with Sarat Chandra Das, prepared Tibetan-English dictionary. Vidyabhusan went to Sri Lanka in 1910 for study and on his return he was appointed the Principal of Sanskrit College, Kolkata. He became the Assistant editor of the Buddhist Text Society. He edited magazine of Bangiya Sahitya Parisad for 22 years. Vidyabhushan was a linguist having knowledge in Buddhist literature, Chinese, Japanese, German and French language. Vidyabhushan number of books on Buddhist Tibetan culture, logic, Sanskrit and Systems of Indian Philosophy. In 1906 he received the title of \"Mahamahopadhyaya\". and got Ph. D in 1908\n"}
{"id": "2599227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2599227", "title": "Sayyida Shirin", "text": "Sayyida Shirin\n\nSayyida Shirin (), also simply known as Sayyida, was a Bavandid princess, who was the wife of Buyid ruler of Ray, Fakhr al-Dawla. She was the \"de facto\" ruler of Ray during the reign of her son, Majd al-Dawla (r. 997–1029).\n\nAccording to the medieval historian Hilal al-Sabi' and the modern historian Madelung, Sayyida Shirin was the sister of the Bavandid ruler al-Marzuban. However, according to the Qabus-nama made by the Ziyarid ruler Keikavus (who was a neighbor of the Bavandids and of Bavandid descent himself), Sayyida Shirin was the niece of al-Marzuban. Hugh N. Kennedy calls her the son of a certain Bavandid ruler (\"ispahbadh\") of Tabaristan named Sharwin, who may be the Bavandid ruler Sharwin III, who was the brother of al-Marzuban. Sayyida Shirin also had a brother named Rustam Dushmanziyar, whose son Muhammad ibn Rustam Dushmanziyar became the founder of the Kakuyid dynasty. \n\nAlthough Sayyida is called a Kurd in some sources, she is generally agreed to be from the Bavand dynasty, which was then of Daylamite origin. Encyclopædia Iranica also states that; “it should be remembered that “Kurd” in the sources of the 10th-11th centuries refers to all the transhumants of the Zagros region including the Lors.”\n\nAt an unknown date, Sayyida Shirin married Fakhr al-Dawla, and bore him two sons named Abu Taleb Rostam and Abu Taher in the 990s. Fakhr al-Dawla later died in 997 and was in Ray succeeded by Abu Taleb Rostam, who was given the \"laqab\" of \"Majd al-Dawla\". Meanwhile, Abu Taher was given the \"laqab\" of \"Shams al-Dawla\", and became the ruler of Hamadan. Since both brothers were in the age of minority, power was assumed by Sayyida. Both sons initially declared themselves independent and assumed the title of Shâhanshâh, but by 1009 or 1010 at the latest had recognized the authority of their relative Baha' al-Dawla, who controlled Fars and Iraq, and abandoned the title.\n\nIn 1006 or 1007, with the assistance of his \"vizier\" Abu 'Ali ibn 'Ali, Majd al-Dawla attempted to throw off the regency of Sayyida. Sayyida, however, escaped to the Kurd Abu Najr Badr ibn Hasanuya, and together with Shams al-Dawla they put Ray under siege. After several battles, the city was taken and Majd al-Dawla was captured. He was imprisoned by Sayyida in the fort of Tabarak, while Shams al-Dawla took to power in Ray. After a year, Majd al-Dawla was released and reinstated in Ray; Shams al-Dawla returned to Hamadan. Power continued to be held by his mother. However, Shams al-Dawla later tried to seize Ray from Majd al-Dawla, but was stopped by Sayyida. Sayyida later died in 1028.\n\n"}
{"id": "9492078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9492078", "title": "Sister Catherine Treatise", "text": "Sister Catherine Treatise\n\nThe Sister Catherine Treatise () is a work of Medieval Christian mysticism seen as representative of the Heresy of the Free Spirit of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries in Europe. Wrongly attributed to Christian mystic Meister Eckhart it nevertheless shows the influence of his ideas (as evinced by the full German title), or at least the ideas which he was accused or attributed as having had by the Inquisition. \n\nThe \"Sister Catherine Treatise\" takes the form of a series of dialogues in Middle High German between a woman (Sister Catherine) and her Confessor (not named but sometimes said to be Eckhart). \n\nSister Catherine is determined to find \"the shortest way\" to God and comes to her Confessor for advice. In the first section her Confessor urges her to rebuke sin and seek purity so as to receive God. She leaves with the intention of doing so.\n\nYears later Sister Catherine returns to speak again to her Confessor, but this time the roles are reversed. Sister Catherine has experienced God and, after falling seemingly dead for three days (in imitation of Christ), reawakens to claim that she has achieved a unity with God which is eternal and which will last throughout this life and beyond. Sister Catherine is presented as having gone further down the road of spiritual development to her Confessor and he finds himself praising her for her Holiness rather than the other way round. \n\nSister Catherine speaks of her unity with God in the following terms:\n\nThe rest of the treatise consists of a continued dialogue with the Confessor - often held at a fever-pitch of excitement and emotion - in which both Sister Catherine and the Confessor exchange ideas about God's immanence, the possibility of humanity's union with Him in this life, the role of Mary Magdalene's relationship with Christ as his Lover and chief Apostle and the need to recognise the deceptions of the reality and unreality of Union with God i.e. what true Union is as opposed to false Union. Here the treatise is careful to delineate the danger of those who interpret the Free Spirit ideals as carte blanche to commit sinful and/or immoral acts. The treatise finishes with Sister Catherine abjuring the Confessor to strive after higher feats of spiritual understanding, the pupil having become the master (or mistress) and the Confessor needing the guidance of the Sister to achieve union with God.\n\nThe \"Sister Catherine Treatise\" is often cited, along with Marguerite Porete's \"The Mirror of Simple Souls\", as one of the representative literary expressions of the Heresy of the Free Spirit, which held that a divine union with God was possible to people in this life and, more controversially, independently of the ministrations of the Church. Initially attributed to Meister Eckhart in Franz Pfeiffer's ground-breaking edition of the Christian mystic's works in 1857 it is now regarded as not being by him but showing evidence of his thinking, or at least evidence of the Free Spirit movement which Eckhart was accused of adhering to.\n\nWritten in a heightened emotional prose which gives the Treatise a slightly hysterical, hallucinatory quality the work espouses a highly feminine approach to the Christian Mystery, with lengthy discussions of the significance of Mary Magdalene as the true lover of Christ (an element which links it to Porete, some of the alleged beliefs of the Cathars and the speculations of Dan Brown) and the figure of Sister Catherine herself emerging as more initiated into the inner spirituality of Christianity than her male counterpart. In it many of the articles of faith of the Free Spirit movement are expressed - a neo-Platonic/panentheistic belief in God's immanence in Creation, the possibility of salvation and the Unio Mystica in this life, the limitations of Church teaching in terms of real mystical insight - and as such it is a valuable document for those in search of understanding the more radical approach to interpreting the Gospels of the Medieval period known as the Heresy of the Free Spirit.\n\nThe treatise is the only currently known medieval work which mentions the well-known question of how many angels can stand, or perhaps perch (\"siczen\"), on the point of a needle: \"doctors declare that in heaven a thousand angels can stand on the point of a needle (\"tusent selen siczen in dem himelrich uff einer nadel spicz\").\" \"Dancing\" on the point of a needle appears to be a later concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36084242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36084242", "title": "Tasu'a", "text": "Tasu'a\n\nTasu'a () is the ninth day of Muharram and the day before Ashura. Several events occurred on this day, including: Shemr's entrance to Karbala, the granting of safe conduct for the children of Umm ul-Banin, preparation for war; and Husayn ibn Ali and his companions were besieged by the enemy (as part of the Battle of Karbala). The day is attributed to Abbas ibn Ali because of his actions as commander in the army of Husayn ibn Ali.\n\nTasu'a literally means ninth and in the Islamic calendar refers to the ninth day of Muharram.\n\nThe following are the main events of Tasu'a:\n\nIn the forenoon of Tasu'a, Shemr, accompanied by a four thousand-man army, arrived at Karbala. He brought a letter from Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad to Umar ibn Sa'ad, telling him to take Bay'ah from Husayn or fight.\n\nShemr was one of the tribesman of Umm ul-Banin. He was given a guarantee of safe conduct from Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad for children of Umm ul-Banin in Tasu'a. He asked Abbas ibn Ali and his brothers to abandon Husayn ibn Ali and obey Yazid. Abbas didn't accept his safe conduct and answered him: \"God curse you and your safe conduct! You give us safe conduct and you do not give safe conduct to the grandson of the Prophet of God? And you are asking us to enter the obedience of the cursed people and those who are children of cursed people?\"\n\nAfter rejection of the safe conduct by Abbas and his brothers, Umar ibn Sa'ad ordered his army to attack Husayn's camp. When Husayn ibn Ali understood their intent, he asked his brother to go to them and ask about his plan. Abbas ibn Ali, Zuhayr ibn Qayn, Habib ibn Madhahir and a few others went and asked them. They answered that our governor ordered us to ask you to Bay'ah him and his rule or fight. Abbas returned to Husayn and said their message. \"Go back to them and ask them to give us this evening as a respite till tomorrow so that we may pray to our Lord, supplicate to Him, and seek His forgiveness, for He knows how much I love prayers, the recitation of His Book, the abundance of invocations, and the seeking of His forgiveness\", Husayn said to Abbas. Abbas went back to the army and said them the message. Umar Ibn Sa'ad agreed to delay the war until the next day.\n\nIn a Hadith by Ja'far al-Sadiq it is said: \"Ninth of Muharram is the day, when Imam Husayn and his companions were besieged at Karbala by the army of Syria from all sides and offloaded their luggage. The son of Marjanah (Ubaydullah bin Ziyad) and Umar ibn Sa’ad were pleased at the large number of their army and they deemed Imam and his companions to be weak. They knew that Imam Husayn had no helpers or aides in Iraq. May my father be ransom upon the oppressed traveler.\"\n\nIn the days of Ashura and Tasua, Muslims go to mosques and Takiehs or go to mourning ceremonies.They recite Ahadith and poems in honor of Abbas ibn Ali. On a whole, the mourning ceremonies consists of procession, chanting and self-flagellation. One of the oldest and most common tradition between Muslim is asking wishes from Allah then promise to feed people. In Iran this tradition is well-established and reaches its climax on Tasua and Ashura (the 9th and 10th of Muharram) to feed mourners.\n\nTa'zieh as a religious play is an old traditional practice for mourning in some cities and villages. Participants see the Ta'zieh as a part of ritual mourning and not as a common play where actors have to memorize their scripts. In other words, the actors read from the script.\n\nThis day is devoted to Abbas ibn Ali in Shia communities, because of his bravery as the standard-bearer of Husayn's army in the Battle of Karbala.\n\n"}
{"id": "878795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878795", "title": "Temple boy", "text": "Temple boy\n\nA temple boy ( \"dek wat\") is a boy in Thailand who lives in a wat and assists Buddhist monks. \n\nThe temple boys carry the alms bowls of the monks during the morning alms collection, and subsequently prepare the monks’ food before eating the leftovers themselves. They follow the ten precepts. Some are sent to become temple boys to acquire merit; others, because they are given free room and board; and others to receive religious and moral instruction. Some temple boys go on to be ordained as monks themselves. Temple boys may undertake the formal step of sāmaṇera ordination as part of their role, depending on their age and local custom.\n\n"}
{"id": "19448222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19448222", "title": "Temple of Derr", "text": "Temple of Derr\n\nThe Temple of Derr or el-Derr is a \"speos\" or rock-cut Egyptian temple in Lower Nubia. It was built during the 19th Dynasty by Pharaoh Ramesses II. It is the only rock-cut temple in Nubia which was constructed by this pharaoh on the right (or east) bank of the Nile and used to stand at el-Derr. The temple's unique position \"was probably because the river on its approach to the Korosko bend flows in an 'unnatural' southeasterly direction.\" The Derr structure was known in ancient times as 'The \"Temple of Ri'amsese-meryamun\" [Ramesses II] \"in the Domain of Re\" ' and was dedicated to the god Ra-Horakhty. Scholars disagree over its precise construction date: the French Egyptologist Nicolas Grimal states that it was built in the thirteenth year of Ramesses II, presumably to coincide with his first royal jubilee. In contrast, John Baines and Jaromír Málek write that the temple of Derr \"was built in the second half of the king's reign\", likely because its \"plan and decoration resembles the Great Temple of Abu Simbel (minus the colossal seated statues against the facade).\" Abu Simbel was built between Year 24 and Year 31 of Ramesses' reign. According to Joyce Tyldesley, the Temple of Derr was built by Setau, who is known to have served as Ramesses' Viceroy of Kush or Nubia between Year 38 to 63 of this pharaoh's reign.\n\nThe temple of Derr is more elaborate than the \"speos\" of Beit el-Wali and \"consisted of a sequence of two hypostyle halls (probably preceded by a forecourt and a pylon) leading to a triple sanctuary where a cult of statues of Ramesses II, Amon-Re, Ra-Horakhty and Ptah was celebrated.\" When cleaned and restored in modern times, Derr proved to contain unusually bright and vivid relief decorations which contrasted sharply \"with the more subdued color tones\" from other Egyptian temples.\n\nIn 1964, the temple was dismantled and relocated, along with the Temple of Amada, to a new site. Early travellers visited the original site, and the temple itself was first studied and published by Aylward Blackman in 1913.\n\n"}
{"id": "15698158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15698158", "title": "Tridentine Calendar", "text": "Tridentine Calendar\n\nThe Tridentine Calendar is the calendar of saints to be honoured in the course of the liturgical year in the official liturgy of the Roman Rite as reformed by Pope Pius V, implementing a decision of the Council of Trent, which entrusted the task to the Pope.\n\nThe text of the Tridentine Calendar can be found in the original editions of the Tridentine Roman Breviary and of the Tridentine Roman Missal.\n\nUse of both these texts, which included Pius V's revised calendar, was made obligatory throughout the Latin Rite except where other texts of at least two centuries' antiquity were in use, and departures from it were not allowed. The Apostolic Constitution \"Quod a nobis\", which imposed use of the Tridentine Roman Breviary, and the corresponding Apostolic Constitution \"Quo primum\" concerning the Tridentine Roman Missal both decreed: \"No one whosoever is permitted to alter this letter or heedlessly to venture to go contrary to this notice of Our permission, statute, ordinance, command, precept, grant, indult, declaration, will, decree and prohibition. Should anyone, however, presume to commit such an act, he should know that he will incur the wrath of Almighty God and of the Blessed Apostles Peter and Paul.\" See the article on \"Quo primum\".\n\nPius V himself altered his Calendar when, after the victory in 1571 of the battle of Lepanto, he added the feast of Our Lady of Victory. In 1585, Pope Sixtus V restored the feast of the Presentation of the Virgin Mary, which Pope Pius V had removed. See, below, \"Some differences in relation to later editions of the Roman calendar\".\n\nPius V removed from the existing Roman calendar many mediaeval saints, keeping only about half a dozen who had been canonized after the eleventh century. His calendar did not include Saints Joachim, Anne, Anthony of Padua, Nicholas of Tolentino, Francis of Paola, Bernardino of Siena or Elizabeth of Hungary, nor any anatomical feasts, such as that of the Stigmata of Saint Francis of Assisi, or the Precious Blood or the Five Wounds of Christ. He removed the word \"Immaculate\" from the title of the 8 December feast of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, abolished the previously existing special Mass for that day, whose Introit and Collect would be restored by Pope Pius IX, and directed that the Mass of the Nativity of Mary should be used instead, but with the word \"Conception\" (not \"Immaculate Conception\") replacing the word \"Nativity\" when used on 8 December. He raised to the rank of double the feasts of the four Eastern Saints Athanasius of Alexandria, Basil of Caesarea, John Chrysostom and Gregory of Nazianzus, and, while he did not give them the title of Doctor of the Church, he assigned to them the common used for the four Western Doctors, Pope Gregory I, Augustine of Hippo, Jerome and Ambrose. On the other hand, he lowered the ranks of many saints' feasts, in order to allow celebration of Sundays and the ferias of Advent and Lent, for any double feast outranked an ordinary Sunday of the year until St. Pius X (see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X), and it was not until the reforms of John XXIII that ferias of Lent and, from 17 to 23 December, those of Advent outranked third-class feasts (which included most of the feasts formerly of Double rank).\n\nIn the Tridentine Calendar, the rank of feasts is expressly indicated only if they are ranked as Double or Semidouble, while absence of an indication means that a feast is of the rank of Simple. (For the meaning of these terms see Ranking of liturgical days in the Roman Rite.) This tripartite ranking as Double, Semidouble, and Simple originated in the thirteenth century and, apart from deciding precedence in the case of two celebrations coinciding on the same day (as when a feast of the fixed calendar coincided with a Sunday, or with a feast or octave whose date depended on that of Easter), was of practical importance more for the Liturgy of the Hours than for the Mass.\n\nPope Clement VIII introduced the rank of Major Double in 1602. This distinction and those of Double of the First Class and Double of the Second Class are absent in the Tridentine Calendar.\n\nWhile St Pius V reduced the number of feast days, later Popes repeatedly added more and altered the ranking of already existing feasts. Even the 1969 revision of the General Roman Calendar, which kept significantly fewer feasts than before, still had more than Pius V's Tridentine Calendar. The Catholic Encyclopedia published the following chart to document the incremental growth of saints' days down to 1907.\n\nSoon after the publication of this 1907 table, Pope Pius X made a general revision of the rubrics of the calendar, the result of which (with a few additions by Pope Pius XI) can be seen in General Roman Calendar of 1954. This was followed by Pope Pius XII's simplifying revision of 1955 (see General Roman Calendar of Pope Pius XII). Pope John XXIII's General Roman Calendar of 1960 reduced the number of celebrations and completely abandoned the ranking as Doubles, Simples, etc. This calendar is still authorized for use in accordance with the motu proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\" of Pope Benedict XVI, which states that the Tridentine Mass was never abrogated. For the 1969 revision, which with subsequent adjustments is in general use in the Latin Church (the present General Roman Calendar, observed for instance by the Pope himself) see General Roman Calendar of 1969.\n\n\n\nIn leap years, a day is added and it is of 29 days but the Feast of St. Matthias is celebrated on the 25th day and then is said twice Sexto Kalendas, that is on the 24th and 25th day, and thus the Dominical letter is changed to the one above, that if it be B, into A, if it be C, into B, similarly also in the others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Octaves (plural) mentioned for the last days of December are those of the Nativity, of St Stephen, of St John, and of the Holy Innocents.\n\nAlthough not listed on the General Calendar, a commemoration of St Anastasia martyr is made at the second Mass on 25 December (pages 22–23 of the \"Ordinarium Missarum de tempore\" section of the Tridentine Roman Missal), and commemorations are made of St John and the Holy Innocents on 2 January; the Octave of St Stephen, and of the Holy Innocents on 3 January; the Octave of St John (page 40 of the same section of the Missal). In addition, on every feast of St Peter there is a commemoration of St Paul and on every feast of St Paul a commemoration of St Peter (page 10 of the \"Proprium Missarum de Sanctis\" section of the Missal).\n\n"}
{"id": "46369963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46369963", "title": "Udvada Atash Behram", "text": "Udvada Atash Behram\n\nThe Udvada Atash Behram, also known as the Iran Shah, \"King of Iran\", is a temple in Udvada, Gujarat on the west coast of India. It is one of the eight fire temples (holy place of worship) of the Zoroastrian religion in the country. The Atash Bahram, meaning \"Victorious Fire\", is one of the oldest fire temples in India, dated to the eight century, and represents the historical cultural and religious links with Iran. The current temple was built in 1742 by Dinshaw Dorabjee Mistry from Bombay. The temple structure, built spaciously, is well decorated and contains the Dasturji Koyaji Mirza hall and a museum. The main hall of the temple is accessed through a two-stage staircase. The temple attracts Zoroastrian pilgrims from all parts of India, Pakistan and from around the world.\n\nThe Udvada Atash Behram, also called the Iran Shah, \"King of Iran\", is a fire temple of the Zoroastrian religion; one of the eight in India. It is located in Udvada (also spelled Udwada) in Gujarat on the west coast of India. Outside India, Yazd in Central Iran has the only other Atash Behram. Udvada, a small coastal village, of about area, is on the southern coast of Gujarat. The village was gifted to the priests by the king of Mandvi. It is approachable by road and rail. It is away from Mumbai towards the north, situated between Vapi town and Daman on the National Highway (NH8) which passes through Manor. The nearest railway station is also in Udvada which is on the Virar-Surat section.\n\nUdvada Atash Behram is one of the oldest existing fire temples in India, representing the cultural and religious link with Iran. The Atash Bahram fire was moved from Iran to India in 715, consequent to the migration of Zoroastrians in Greater Persia due to the persecution by the Islamic rulers who conquered that country; those who moved to India are called Parsis; the earliest link of worship of the sacred fire in Zoroastrian temples is dated to the 4th century BC. The Parsis traveled by ship from Hormuz in the Persian Gulf and landed on the Indian coast at Diu. They then moved along the coast to Sanjan, where the local Hindu king, Jadi Rana, gave them asylum and land to settle down but under a few stipulations. They settled down in Sanjan and then established their first Atash Bahram, a first-grade fire temple (fire drawn from sixteen sources) in India in 721 by enshrining the holy fire that had been brought from Iran. This temple thus created a \"silsila\", a traditional link, for the Parsi community of Sanjan with Iran. The consecration ceremony involved long and winding rites, which lasted for many months. The temple flourished, the community took firm roots, and it was their only such temple during that period, though as a community they spread to other regions of India. Their stay in Sanjan lasted for about four centuries till political events took a turn. In 1297, the Muslim ruler, Sultan Mahmud, invaded Gujarat and occupied the Sanjan area also; during this battle the Parsis had sided with the Hindus but it was a lost cause. The Parsis then took shelter in the Bahrot caves and kept the sacred fire there for 12 years. As the safety conditions improved, the Sanjan priests then shifted, with the holy fire, to another village known as Bansda, and remained there for 14 years, when pilgrims started visiting the fire shrine. During this period, one of the pilgrims, Changashah, also known as Changa Asa, of Navsari, who was also a benefactor, who used to travel to Bansda, persuaded the priests of Sanjan to move to Navsari.\n\nIn 1419, the holy fire was moved by the priests to Navsari, a town near Surat, where they established themselves for more than 300 years (1419 to 1740). Due to security concerns created by Pindharas (nomadic robbers), the fire was temporarily moved to Surat, and as the situation eased it was brought back to Navsari. The Sanjan priests and the Bhagarias (local priests) of Navsari had a working arrangement to run the sacred fire temple, but this understanding broke down and legal issues ensued. Disturbed by this development, the Sanjan priests moved out of Navsari with their sacred fire, and housed the fire in one of the two agiaris (the first level of fire temples) in Bulsar (now known as Valsad), away from Navsari. Even here the Sanjan priests could not come to amicable terms with the local priests of the agiari and in 1741 they decided to move to Udvada, which was under the Sanjan community. One year later Zoroastrians built an Atash Behram in Udvada and moved the sacred fire to it; it was consecrated by two high priests (dasturs) who had carried the fire from Navsari.\n\nThe Atash Behram (\"Iran Shah fire\") is a symbolic representation of the Zoroastrian monarchy of Iran that was overthrown by Arabs ), which had been first established at Sanjan in the 90th year of the Yezdezardi era by the first Shehenshahi Zoroastrian immigrants in India, is now maintained at Udvada by their descendants; these are nine families of priests who were descendants of the three priests who had retrieved the sacred fire from Sanjan to safety. The presiding High Priest or Dastur of the temple is chosen by a rotation system among these nine families.\n\nTo retain the heritage status of the fire temple and the Udvada town, a development plan was initiated in 2007 by the Government of India and Government of Gujarat with a fund of Rs. 15 million. This involved the preservation of the heritage buildings including the fire temple in Udvada without allowing to make it a tourist hub.\n\nThe architect and builder of the temple was Dinshaw Dorabjee Mistry from Mumbai. The temple structure has been built spaciously and well decorated. The main hall of the temple, which is , is accessed through a two-stage staircase. The flooring in the hall is paved with Minton tiles. A portrait of the Zoroaster is fixed in the main hall at a vantage position. In the first floor, there is a very large hall of size. The color scheme, the quality of carpets, and the type of tiles used in the temple have received appreciation from the devotees. The \"urwisgah\", or place of the rituals for worship, is accessed from the doors on the right at the entrance. Within this temple, there are the Dasturji Koyaji Mirza hall and a museum.\n\nIn Sanjan, the holy fire was placed in a traditional \"altar-like pillar with hollow top\" similar to those used in Iran. In Navasari, the fire was kept in an \"āfrinagān\", which was shaped like a vase. A larger version of this was developed as a model for adoption at all other Atash Bahrams.\n\nThe \"boi\" ritual involves the enthroning of the (machi) of the fire. It is done with ten sticks of sandalwood of length each; at other similar shrines the number of sandalwood sticks used are seven of length each.\n\nPortrait of important priests and the religious organizations, who have played a significant role in establishing the temple, are fixed on the outer walls of the temple. The original temple was refurbished by Lady Motlibhai Wadia in 1894.\n\nThe first \"boi\" and \"maachi\", the ceremony that accompanies the regular tending of fire five times a day, was offered to the holy fire at the new temple by Dastur Pheroozi's son.\n\nZoroastrian pilgrims from all parts of India, Canada, Pakistan, and Australia visit the temple on pilgrimage. Newly wed couples also visit Udvada on pilgrimage, and on their behalf, their parents offer a \"machi\" (throne of wood to the fire) at the temple.\n\nThe anniversary, known as \"sālgiri\", corresponding to the date of establishing the Atash Behram in Udvada and also in other Atash Bahrams in India, is celebrated every year according to the Shenshai Zoroastrian calendar on the day called \"Ādur\" of the month also called \"Ādur\", the ninth Zoroastrian month and the ninth day of the month); pilgrims visit not only on the day of the month but also throughout the Ādur month. Apart from the \"salgiri\", the other religious observance held every month is the \"Bahrām\" day (the twentieth day of the month). The Parsi New Year, normally held in August, is also celebrated here when a large number of devotees flock to the shrine.\n\nOn festive occasions, the Udvada shrine comes to life with large number of pilgrims engaged in buying sandalwood, flowers and other religious paraphernalia to offer to the fire.\n\n"}
{"id": "25098099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25098099", "title": "Vizsoly Bible", "text": "Vizsoly Bible\n\nThe Vizsoly Bible, also called Károli Bible was the first Bible printed in the Hungarian language. It was translated in the 16th century by pastor Gáspár Károli and fellow Calvinists and was printed in 1590 by Bálint Mantskovit. A copy is kept on permanent display in the Hungarian village of Vizsoly.\n\nGáspár Károli, Calvinist pastor in the town of Gönc, began working on the translation in 1586 and finished it three years later. Since it would have been impossible for one person to translate the complete Bible in such a short time, others must have worked on it too; examination of the vocabulary and phrases used suggests that at least four people worked on it but the New Testament was translated by Károli in its entirety.\n\nPrinting began on February 28, 1589 by Bálint Mantskovit who moved his press from Galgóc to Vizsoly. He imported type from the Netherlands and paper from Poland. Mantskovit was of Polish origin, and in a note he asks the reader to overlook the errors he possibly left in the text. When printing began, the full translation was not ready yet, so Károli's manuscripts were taken page by page to Mantskovit by students at Gönc, among them Albert Szenczi Molnár.\n\nOn March 3, 1589 Archduke Ernest and the royal secretary Faustus Verantius accused Manstkovit of printing calendars and other forbidden books, and asked for the press to be confiscated. On March 26, Sigismund Rákóczi, the future Prince of Transylvania, to whose estate Vizsoly belonged, denied the accusations and asked to be allowed to finish the printing of the Bible. Thanks to Rákóczi and other powerful nobles supporting the cause, the printing was finished on July 20, 1590. Around 700–800 copies of the book were printed during this time.\n\nKároli names his sources in the foreword: the Vulgata, the Septuaginta, translations and commentaries by Franciscus Vatablus, Sebastian Münster, Santes Pagninus and Immanuel Tremellius; he also used the Hebrew and Greek texts. It is not clear to what extent he utilized earlier, incomplete Hungarian translations; he does refer to those of Gáspár Heltai and Péter Melius Juhász, and he used the translation of Psalm 74 by István Székely.\n\nThe book has 2,412 pages and weighs about 6 kg. It consists of three volumes. The first volume, with the coat of arms of Hungary on its cover, includes the first 28 books of the Old Testament, with a table of contents and a lengthy foreword by Károli addressed to “the lords and heroic nobles, God-fearing communities, preachers in Hungary and in Transylvania” and is dated January 1, 1589. The second volume includes the remaining books of the Old Testament, while the third volume is the “New Testament of our Lord Jesus Christ”, including a large folded-in page with Jesus's genealogy.\n\nKároli also included short summaries and commentaries before each chapter, explaining some of the verses with parallels to situations that were well known in the period. For example, to the \"Take off your sandals!\" part he added the following commentary: “Just like the Turks are known to take off their boots when entering their churches; it is done as a sign of respect for the place” – aspects of Islamic culture were well known in Hungary during the Ottoman wars in Europe, when the borders of the Ottoman Empire reached as far as Abaúj County.\n\nKároli was aware that the translation was not without errors, as he wrote in the foreword:\n\nHe asks all Christian readers not to scold him for his errors, but to pinpoint them to him, so that he can correct them. His death shortly after the first publication prevented him from revising his translation. In 1608 a former student, Albert Szenczi Molnár, published a revised edition known as the Hanau Bible.\n\nOnly 51 copies of the Vizsoly Bible exist today. Károli himself possessed twenty of them at the time of his death. Twenty of the fifty-one surviving copies are in Hungary, fourteen are in Romania (Transylvania), thirteen in Slovakia, two in the Czech Republic, one in Austria and one in Denmark.\n\nOriginal Vizsoly Bibles reach a high price at auction. On November 28, 2003 an almost intact copy was sold at a Budapest auction for 12 million forints (53,571 USD), although experts assessed its value at 25–30 million forints; on another auction in London it reached that price in 2001. In May 2008 an Old Testament in good condition was auctioned for 2,2 million forints. In 1981, 28,000 copies of the Bible were reprinted.\n\nA copy has been exhibited in the church of Vizsoly since October 31, 1940. After several pages had been stolen, the book was then secured in a glass display case. On February 10, 2002 it was stolen again, and found in September 2003 in a neglected building in Komárno, Slovakia. It is occasionally lent for exhibitions and was on display in the House of Tokay Wines in Tokaj between August 13 and September 3, 2008.\n\nA list of libraries and institutions owning a Vizsoly Bible. Several of them can be viewed at request.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "547075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=547075", "title": "Waheguru", "text": "Waheguru\n\nWaheguru () refers to God in Sikhism.\n\nThe word \"vāhegurū\" is traditionally explained as being composed of \"vāhe\" \"wondrous\", \"gu\" \"darkness\", and \"ru\" \"light\", together said to carry the meaning - The wondrous Lord who dispells the darkness of ignorance and bestows the light of truth, knowledge and enlightenment.\n\nThe word \"Vaheguru or Waheguru\" is also used in Sikhism as a main mantra, called or . \n"}
{"id": "54819106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54819106", "title": "Xoán Paredes", "text": "Xoán Paredes\n\nXoán M. Paredes (; born in 1975) is a Galician geographer, teacher and ordained druid (head of the organized Galician druidic movement).\n\nParedes is a \"licenciado\" in Geography by the University of Santiago de Compostela (Galicia), where he studied under the direction of Carlos Ferrás. He completed his MPhil thesis at University College Cork (Ireland), under the supervision of Patrick O'Flanagan.\n\nDuring his stay in Ireland (1999-2010), Paredes worked as a teaching and library assistant at UCC, and collaborated regularly with the Irish Centre for Galician Studies and the Department of Education.\n\nHe currently teaches social sciences and modern languages in the private sector, while he remains involved in a number of grassroots organisations and projects. He is a former academic member and secretary of the Galician Institute for Celtic Studies. Paredes has been responsible for the organisation of academic seminars and conferences and he is a regular name in the discussions about Celtic Galicia.\nParedes has conducted research in the fields of spatial planning and cultural geography, with a focus on geolinguistics, Atlantic Europe and cultural landscapes. He has helped in defining the concept of cultural landscape as:\n\"... the environment modified by the human being in the course of time, the long-term combination between anthropic action on this environment and the physical constraints limiting or conditioning human activity. It is a geographical area – including natural and cultural resources – associated to historical evolution, which gives way to a recognizable landscape for a particular human group, up to the point of being identifiable as such by others.\"\n\nLike a number of other previous authors such as Otero Pedrayo, Paredes links his native Galicia to a genuinely Atlantic culture despite being part of a Mediterranean state (Spain). In doing so, he identifies a cultural landscape common to Atlantic (namely Celtic) Europe mainly based on the settlement pattern, use and shared perception of the lived space.\n\nFollowing on John T. Koch's and Barry Cunliffe’s “Celtic from the West” postulates, Paredes supports the Paleolithic Continuity Paradigm, thus coinciding with Francesco Benozzo when locating the origins of Celtic Culture in north-west Iberia. Once again, Paredes considers that there is a particular Celtic cultural landscape (although presenting variations in scale) which demonstrates in itself a social and cultural unity and continuity.\n\nRegarding planning and territorial management, Paredes defends a deep restructuring of the Galician official administrative jurisdictions, considered to be the result of forced foreign (Spanish) intervention and therefore in disarray with the traditional – and still operating at a popular and psychological level – Galician territorial tiers. His research also criticises the governmental improvisation and lack of strategic planning in Galician territorial implementations.\n\n\n\nRaised between Galicia and the Catalan Countries, Paredes lived in Cork (Ireland) from 1999 to 2010. He now resides in Pontevedra (Galicia). He is fluent in English, Catalan, Spanish, Galician and Portuguese, where he takes the reintegrationist position with regards to the relationship between modern Galician and Portuguese.\n\nParedes is the current head of the \"Irmandade Druídica Galaica\" (Pan-Galician Druidic Fellowship), an officially registered religious organisation. He is therefore a believer in reconstructionist Druidry, although following an orthodox approach unlike most contemporary neo-druidic groups. In these contexts the initiated name of \"Milésio\" is often used in reference to the Milesians.\n\nAs a religious figure alone, he has appeared in national and international media on a number of occasions.\n\nIn his works, mostly in his essays and publications on social media, Paredes is an advocate for social justice and often associates himself with left-wing positions. Likewise, he is a strong supporter of full Galician independence from Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10679820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10679820", "title": "Yativṛṣabha", "text": "Yativṛṣabha\n\nYativṛṣabha, also known as Jadivasaha, was a mathematician and Jain monk. He is believed to have lived during the 6th century, probably during 500-570. He lived and worked between the periods of two great Indian mathematicians, Aryabhata (476 – 550) and Brahmagupta (598-668). He wrote the book named \"Tiloyapannatti\" which describes cosmology from the point of view of Jain religion and philosophy. \"The work also gives various units for measuring distances and time.\" Tiloya Panatti postulated different concepts about infinity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40882111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40882111", "title": "Zarmihrids", "text": "Zarmihrids\n\nThe Zarmihrid dynasty was a local dynasty of Tabaristan which ruled over parts of the mountainous areas of the region since the reign of Sasanian king Khosrau I to 785.\n\nThe family claimed its origin from a powerful Karen lord named Sukhra, a descendant of Kaveh the blacksmith, the national hero of Iran, and who was one of the leading nobles of the empire during the reign of Balash and Kavadh I. According to a traditional story, Sukhra left two children, Karin and Zarmihr, who helped Khosrau I protect the eastern borders of his empire when it was invaded by Turkic nomads. Karin was rewarded with land in the south of Amol, and was given title of Ispahbadh, thus starting the Karen dynasty of Tabaristan. Zarmihr was rewarded with parts of Tabaristan and was given the title of Marzban and Masmughan. Eastern Tabaristan was mainly divided between the Karenids, the Zarmihrids and the Marzban of Tomisha.\n\nIn 783, the Karenids, along with the Bavandids and the Zarmihrids revolted against the Abbasid Caliphate, the alliance was, however, defeated in 785, and thus the Zarmihrids disappeared from history afterwards.\n\n\n"}
