{"id": "53206947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53206947", "title": "Academic freedom in the Middle East", "text": "Academic freedom in the Middle East\n\nAcademic freedom in the Middle East is a contested and debated issue, which has caught regional and international attention. In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, in general, the authoritarian regimes have all showed a certain degree of opposition to every sort of freedom, academic one not excluded, regardless of the type of regime basis they had. Freedom for academicians to inquiry, research, teach and communicate ideas or report facts without being threatened or persecuted or with the possibility of losing their position, being censored or repressed is threatened. What contributes to academic freedom violations is also that they are essential elements for the regimes to maintain their power and in addition to this issue, interstate and civil wars as well as internal disorders and external intervention can damage educational structures and institutions. Additionally, as far as the regime is concerned, a security or national threat can be a pretest for suffocate or suspend academic research and debate. Restrictions on academic freedom also regards the topics of research, which are under significant constraints, although these might be highly interesting and worth researching.\n\nThere are many organizations that deal with monitoring violations of academic freedom and report academicians' voices, through publishing letters directed to public figures and also directed to the international community.\n\nScholars at Risk is an international network based in the United States, specifically at the University of Chicago. The aim of this organization is to support scholars and defend academic freedom and human rights all over the world. One of the projects of this network is the Academic Freedom Monitor.\n\nThe online website Academic Freedom Monitor deals with reporting violations related to academic freedom. It is based on robust sources of information, which come from independent actors and are, then, verified. According to the Academic Freedom Monitor, which reports cases since 2010 until now, there are different categories of violation regarding the issue.\nRegarding the Middle East and Northern Africa, the AFM registers cases in: Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Kuwait, Yemen, Iraq, Palestine (OPT), Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, Libya and Tunisia.\n\nAcademic Freedom Monitor identifies different types of violations as following:\n\nThe Middle East Studies Association (MESA) is an association which brings together scholars and informed people with an interested in the MENA region. This association is the promoter of the \"International Journal of Middle East Studies\" and has the aim to promote cooperation, communication and boost the learning regarding the Middle East. One of the fields it is dealing with regards academic freedom. This association has created a Committee on Academic Freedom (CAF), which aims to remove any obstacle regarding the exchange of knowledge and any restrictions on academicians coming also from governments.\n\nAcademic freedom in Turkey has been through a series of changes and fluctuations. It is often irregular, inadequate and closely tied to the politics in the country. Several reform initiatives have been taken throughout Turkey's history which aim at restructuring governance of higher education and thus affecting academic freedom. The first reform initiative was in 1933, as Malche was invited by Atatürk to restructure Istanbul University (Istanbul Darülfünun). One of the reforms that made it to the law 2252 was according universities with more freedom. In 1946, the Law Number 4936 accorded universities with unprecedented rights, as academicians were seen as guardians of democracy second to the military. \nThe Democratic Party in 1953 passed laws that would undermine the universities' control over their budget, retirement of academicians and their employment rights. Those attacks on academic freedom were aimed at confining professors from being involved in partisan politics resulting in several cases of suspensions of academicians and denial of promotions. The 1960 coup was seen as a promise for reversal of the DP's encroachment over university autonomy, as it recruited academicians in government offices, selected to write the constitution and other vital roles. However, the 1960 coup junta surprisingly dismissed 147 academicians who were not in agreement with some members of the junta. \nIn 1973, higher education was restructured with the increased sovereignty of the Interuniversity Council (ÜAK), while at the same time universities were given complete autonomy.\n\nThe current Higher Education Law was implemented in 1981 following the 1980 coup. The law maintains that, “universities are judicial structures which are managed and supervised by the organs selected among them. University organs, academics and teaching assistants cannot be removed from their posts for no reason by authorities outside the university” (YÖK 2007). Yet academic freedom became too dependent on The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) as the reform moved towards creating a more centralized system around the YÖK in matters regarding budgetary control, staff employment and student selection. The law defines the name, number and discipline of each faculty or vocational school. While universities can establish departments, their approval is subject to the Council.\n\nEgypt is one of the countries where academic freedom is not a right freely enjoyed. Since the start of the 1990s, academics in Egypt have faced several forms of repression and endured many violations such as judicial convictions, public condemnation, and physical violence from both private individuals and groups, mainly the Islamists, and government officials. On one hand, there are Egyptian state authorities using police, political appointees, and regulations and laws to control university life. On the other hand, Islamist militants are resorting to physical violence and public attacks to have a say in the content of higher education.\nAll aspects of university life including the classroom, student activities, research, campus demonstrations were affected by government and private repression. The professors and students find themselves censored and enable to cross the “red lines” of politics, religion, and sex.\nFaculty appointments and promotions are controlled by the state. Student activities are limited once outside the classroom, and campus protests are often violently responded to. All these factors contribute to the deterioration of the academic freedom situation in Egypt and to the general decline of the educational environment.\n\nWhile Article 21 of the 2014 Egyptian constitution, issued under Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s rule, ensures that “the state guarantees the independence of universities, scientific and linguistic academies” and that “it commits to providing university education in accordance with global quality criteria, and to developing free university education in state universities and institutes as per the law\", the Egyptian state still violates its constitutional provisions through various repressive ways in an attempt to curb academic freedom. Article 23 of the constitution claims that “the state grants the freedom of scientific research and encourages its institutions.”</ref>\nHowever, freedom of scientific research has often been interfered with and even hindered on various occasions by state authorities. Universities under Sisi’s rule have been described as “experiencing the lowest levels of academic freedom the country has ever known.\" In fact, many observers maintained that the violations against Egyptian academics under El-Sisi’s rule exceed those witnessed during Mubarak’s time. In academic year 2014, 761 student arrests and 281 student expulsions took place. Moreover, the state sentenced to death a university professor for writing critical articles about the regime and accused him of “conspiring to undermine Egypt’s national security”, and arrested many others who dared to criticize the regime.\nThe state also monitors what ideas come in and not just the research that comes out. Several universities are canceling their study abroad programs or breaking off their cooperations with foreign universities. For example, Cairo’s Ain Shams University canceled its study abroad program to Turkey and Damanhour University stopped its cooperation with foreign institutions. Furthermore, El-Sisi issued a decree banning any academic travel outside Egypt that does not have a prior State Security authorization. This way, the state would be able to control which conferences can be attended and what sources can be used. Even though this decree and many other violations are, according to the articles mentioned above, unconstitutional, they are still enforced.\n\nThere are various cases of academic freedom violations in Egypt. The following are just few of them. Professor Kholoud Saber had her scholarship abroad terminated by Cairo University. She was doing a doctoral research on a scholarship at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium, that started on October 2015, when she was ordered to return to Egypt following a recommendation of the Ministry of Higher education in December 2015. Fanny Ohier, a French Master’s student, was arrested and later deported from Egypt. She was working on the April 6 Youth Movement, a group banned by the government as it was accused of state defamation and espionage. She was not given any reason for her arrest by the Egyptian officials but she, reportedly, overheard police officers claiming “she had improper friends.”\nOn another instance, scholar and journalist Ismail Alexandrani was detained, on November 2015, upon his return Egypt from a workshop in Germany. The Egyptian embassy in Berlin had apparently advised the scholar, who happens to be “a vocal critic of human rights violations in Egypt and counterterrorism policy in the Sinai Peninsula,” not to turn up to the workshop titled “Deconstructing Islamist Egypt\" Upon Mr. Alexandrani’s arrival to Egypt, his passport was confiscated and he was questioned for over 19 hours before getting arrested “on charges of ‘joining and supporting a terrorist organization’ and ‘spreading false news liable to disturb public security and harm public interest.\"\n\nOne of the most widely covered stories in relation to the situation of academic freedom in Egypt was the case of the Italian PhD candidate Giulio Regeni, a researcher at the University of Cambridge in the UK. Giulio Regeni was first found dead, in the outskirts of Cairo, a week after he was declared missing on January 25, 2016, which coincided with the fifth anniversary of the Egyptian uprising, and his body demonstrated clear signs of torture and severe beating. The PhD candidate was investigating the Egyptian labor movements at the American University of Cairo at the time of his murder. While government officials maintained that Regeni was kidnapped and murdered by a gang, international and Egyptian human rights activists claim that he was actually targeted for his research by the Egyptian government.\nThe murder of Giulio Regeni remains unsolved. \nThe case of the researcher, and the continuing imprisonment of hundreds of scholars and thousands of students and the various restrictions on academic freedom signal that there is an actual “not improvement but, rather, a further tightening of control, and loss of autonomy and freedom in Egyptian higher education, as well as a shrinkiHing space for critical inquiry and discourse in Egypt generally.\"\n\nIn the 1990s, Israeli academia was characterized by open-mindedness and pluralist vision of debated issues such as revisionist history on 1948 war that was finding its way into the academic society. However, with the Second Intifada and its aftermath, these characteristics gradually vanished also due to the disappearance of Israeli left parties, which in fact used to host a great part of Israeli academia and when leftish positions started to change, this influenced the academic environment as well.\n\nIn what it is considered by many international actors a situation of military occupation with its consequent policies of collective punishments and denial of entrance, such as checkpoints and the construction of the wall between Israel and West Bank, in the Occupied Palestinian Territories access to education for Palestinians has thus been affected. In fact, straight after the beginning of the first Intifada, the ability for the students of West Bank Universities to study and carry on theirs studies have been limited, while later on, in 2006, a travel ban to get into Israel was issued for Palestinian students belonging to Israeli universities. These procedure go along with a series of entry and residence denials for researchers and students, both foreign passport holders and Palestinian-born, which have threatened the ability of carrying on a proper educational and research level in Palestinian universities.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported various violations perpetrated by Israeli authorities on students, in the academic and educational environment. In 2007, 670 students from Gaza were prevented from achieving higher education in countries such as Egypt, Jordan, Germany, Britain and United States, by being denied the exit permits. In total, the number of Gazans who have been denied to exit Gaza has reached 6400 people and this due to Hamas’ takeover of the territory and Israel controlling Gaza’s border. Those students that left for their studies remained once again trapped when they returned home for the summer. Even when they obtained exit permits, students have been stopped at the passenger crossing in Erez, with the justification of “security concerns”.\n\nIn June 2008, the organization again stated how discrimination by Israeli authorities prevented many Palestinian students from the Gaza Strip to travel abroad or to the West Bank to get a better education. Regarding the chances to travel abroad, in 2008, grants allocated for the Palestinians chosen to study in the United States were redirected because there was no way those students would be allowed by Israel to leave Gaza. For the inability to get visa, the grants destined to Gaza students were transferred to students in the West Bank. The organization has highlighted the necessity and the right for those students to access higher education abroad, since in the Gaza Strip the opportunity are quite limited. For instance, there is not a wide range of degrees, both undergraduate and master’s, in the four available universities. Moreover, there is a total absence of doctoral degrees, and lecturers and teachers from outside are hardly allowed by the Israeli government to enter and teach in Gaza.\n\nThis blockade is said to be a clear violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention, because Israel’s obligation to guarantee the rights of the people under occupation, among which freedom of movement and right to education display, is inconsistent or not committed at all. However, according to international law, Gaza is not occupied since Israel no longer has any military presence in Gaza and Gaza has its own, independent government.\n\nOther types of restrictions regarding academic freedom affects also Israeli scholars, such as Ilan Pappe, an Israeli Jew, who has been forced to resign for the University of Haifa in 2007 for his academic work and political positions, such as academic boycott of Israel. The scholar started researching on the history of the creation of the state of Israel and elaborated a revisionist historical perspective regarding 1948 war. He received along with his family death threats.\n\nIn an interview with Ma’an News, in February 2014, he was asked about academic freedom in Israel and especially regarding his personal experience. This is what he stated:\n\n“Freedom of academic expression in Israel is a bit like the idea of a Israel being a Jewish democracy. You take a universal concept -- everyone has the right to their opinion and everyone has the right to be part of a democracy -- only with one condition: that the universality does not include critique on Zionism and that the democracy would always ensure Jewish majority whatever the demographic and geographical realities are.”\n\nDuring the years that followed the 1979 Iranian revolution, hundreds of academicians and students were killed as a consequence of a highly violent campaign that aimed to repress academic freedom, silence dissent, and enforce uniformity of thought. The freedoms of speech, association, and peaceful assembly of thousands of students and faculty members were breached through various methods of brutality, torture and detention. The reasons behind the arrests and torture ranged from “participating in illegal gatherings”, “propaganda against the system”, to “insulting the supreme leader or government officials.” Other tens of thousands of students and faculty members were forced out of their education and careers and into exile. These assaults on academic freedom continued all throughout the 1980s and became a salient feature of the newly established republic. Paradoxically, it was in universities where the initial revolutionary ‘texts’, aimed to oust the Shah, were produced and circulated. Indeed, universities came to represent the de facto ‘spaces’ where open-ended critical discourse was taking place. Nevertheless, they became the primary target of attack after the fall of the monarchy and the rise of Ayatollah Khomeini to power.\n\nA merciless campaign of repression has been waged by the Iranian authorities against academic freedom during the last three decades. Academics and students were routinely detained, harassed and expelled from universities because of their beliefs, political affiliations and peaceful activism. The use of coercion and repressive methods was stepped up after the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005. The latter attempted to ‘Islamize’ the educational curriculum through purging it from secular and ‘Western’ influences. Furthermore, a large number of students and academics were barred from universities, following a policy of “starring” that punished those who do not conform to the state's political and social views. The government of President Ahmadinejad also introduced a quota system to limit the number of women in universities and measures to prevent them from enrolling in a list of courses considered more appropriate for men. A firm iron grip was retained over academic institutions by the Iranian authorities to the degree of allowing intelligence bodies and state security to supervise disciplinary proceedings in universities.\n\nThe next president who assumed office in 2013, Hassan Rouhani—considered by many as a ‘reformist’-, made some steps to permit the return of several banned academics and students to campuses. Nonetheless, the situation of academic freedom remained critical with hundreds of students still imprisoned and others newly arrested since the election of President Rouhani. By the end of the academic year under the administration of the latter, various restrictions breaching academic freedom and introduced during the time of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remained in place.\n\nSeveral international instruments, to which Iran is party and accepted, such as the International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education clearly guarantee the right to education to all people without discrimination. In addition to that, the rights of individuals to freedoms of association, expression, opinion, and assembly and the prohibition of discrimination based on sex, race, religion, ethnicity or political opinion, are further protected by the International Covenant on Civil and political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD).\n\nHowever, students and academics in Iran still face pervasive and routine infringements of their rights based on gender, religion, ethnicity and opinions. In the period stretching from March 2009 to February 2012, 396 cases of students were reportedly banned from their university programs because of their peaceful activism. At least 634 other students were detained by the intelligence and security network. Student activists were suspended, threatened, arrested and prosecuted on a regular basis due to their peaceful criticism of the regime. Iranian officials have also resorted to shutting down hundreds of student publications, gatherings, and independent organizations. Moreover, the intelligence and paramilitary agencies are strongly present in university campuses and sometimes violently confront students through attacking peaceful gatherings or dormitories, which often leads to grave injuries and even the death of many students. Furthermore, the minorities living in the republic of Iran are confronted with systematic discrimination and deprivation in universities. One example illustrating this case is that of the Baha’i community who are prevented from pursuing higher education because of their different religious beliefs. Iranian authorities also specifically punish student activists advocating for ethnic minority rights in harsher ways. The punishments range from violent arrests to heavy sentences including the death sentence. Women are also subject to discrimination at the educational level. The establishment of a quota system to limit female participation in universities is curbing women’s rights. Further restrictions on women’s educational choices are enforced. The issue of gender segregation, which does not always guarantee quality education for women, persists. Academics and teaching personnel are also subject to discrimination with their rights constantly violated. More than a hundred academics were dismissed from universities, because of their dissent against the government and their political views, since the 2009 election. In addition to that, several university professors have been imprisoned for merely expressing peaceful dissent.\n\nA Canadian-Iranian professor of anthropology from Concordia University in Montreal, Homa Hoodfar, was detained in Iran on the 6th of June, 2016. She was interrogated for three months before being locked in a small cell in Evin Prison by the Iranian intelligence service. Evin prison in Iran is referred to as ‘Evin University’ due to the large number of intellectuals detained there. Professor Hoodfar spent 112 days in prison for meddling in affairs of “feminism and security matters.” She was released in September 2016 on “humanitarian grounds” after Canada’s cooperation with officials from Oman, Switzerland and Italy to ensure her release. Canada worked with the latter countries because it cut its direct diplomatic ties with Iran in 2012.\n\nProfessor Hoodfar later reported that even though she was not physically abused, the interrogations were severely psychologically distressing. The questioning would last from 9am to 7pm in a basement, where professor Hoodfar would either be facing a wall or a mirror preventing her from seeing her interrogators. As examples of psychological abuse, the professor revealed that one day, during questioning, Iranian officials played a song from her husband’s funeral that took place two years before, after they had found a clip of it on her iPad. In another instance, they displayed a picture of “her mother standing at her father’s graveside.”\n\n"}
{"id": "4083089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4083089", "title": "Academic genealogy", "text": "Academic genealogy\n\nAn academic, or scientific, genealogy, organizes a family tree of scientists and scholars according to mentoring relationships, often in the form of dissertation supervision relationships.\n\nThe academic lineage or academic ancestry of someone is a chain of professors who have served as academic mentors or thesis advisors of each other, ending with the person in question. Many genealogical terms are often recast in terms of academic lineages, so one may speak of academic descendants, children, siblings, etc.\n\nWebsites such as the Mathematics Genealogy Project or the Chemical Genealogy document academic lineages for specific subject areas, while some other sites, such as Neurotree and Academic Family Tree aim to provide a complete academic genealogy across all fields of academia. However, not all links recorded in such databases are formal advisor-advisee relationships; for instance, the University of Cambridge did not require a formal doctoral thesis until 1919, and academic genealogies that include earlier Cambridge students tend to substitute an equivalent mentor.\n\nAcademic genealogies are particularly easy to research in the case of Spain's Doctor degrees, because until 1954 only Complutense University had the power to grant Doctorates. This means that all holders of a Doctor degree in Spain can trace back their academic lineage to a Doctoral supervisor who was a member of Complutense's Faculty.\n\nAcademic genealogy may influence research results in areas of active research. Hirshman et al. examined a controversial medical question, the value of maximal surgery for high grade glioma, and demonstrated that a physician's medical academic genealogy can affect his or her findings and approaches to treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13252636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13252636", "title": "Agro ParisTech", "text": "Agro ParisTech\n\nAgroParisTech (officially French \"Institut des sciences et industries du vivant et de l'environnement\", or \"Paris Institute of Technology for Life, Food and Environmental Sciences\") is a French university-level institution, also known as a \"Grande Ecole\". It was founded on January 1, 2007, by the merger of three life sciences grandes écoles.\n\nLeader in life sciences and agronomy, AgroParisTech is one of the foremost and most prestigious Grandes Ecoles. AgroParisTech is one of the founding members of the Université Paris-Saclay, which will be the largest European multidisciplinary campus. AgroParisTech will consequently be moving to the Paris-Saclay business and research-intensive cluster in 2018.\n\nAgroParisTech is a member of the UniverSud Paris and the Paris Institute of Technology (or Paris Tech). The latter is a consortium of ten graduate institutes of science and engineering. AgroParisTech is also part of 'The Life and Environmental Science and Technology Hub' of the Paris region, together with INRA, Cemagref, AFSSA, the Ecole nationale vétérinaire d'Alfort, and the Versailles National School of Landscape architecture.\nAgroParisTech is the merger of three graduate institutes of science and engineering located around Paris:\n\nThe public higher education system in France includes universities and other institutions called the “Grandes Ecoles”. The “Grandes Ecoles” are the best rated pathways for higher education in Engineering and Management. The vast majority of the chief executives in major French companies and of top managers in the French Administration are graduates from the “Grandes Ecoles”. The features are:\n\nAgroParisTech is organized into five departments:\n\nAgroParisTech offers different Masters:\n\nIt also offers:\n\nAgroParisTech has:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42478813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42478813", "title": "Authentic learning", "text": "Authentic learning\n\nIn education, authentic learning is an instructional approach that allows students to explore, discuss, and meaningfully construct concepts and relationships in contexts that involve real-world problems and projects that are relevant to the learner. It refers to a \"wide variety of educational and instructional techniques focused on connecting what students are taught in school to real-world issues, problems, and applications. The basic idea is that students are more likely to be interested in what they are learning, more motivated to learn new concepts and skills, and better prepared to succeed in college, careers, and adulthood if what they are learning mirrors real-life contexts, equips them with practical and useful skills, and addresses topics that are relevant and applicable to their lives outside of school.\"\n\nAuthentic instruction will take on a much different form than traditional teaching methods. In the traditional classroom, students take a passive role in the learning process. Knowledge is considered to be a collection of facts and procedures that are transmitted from the teacher to the student. In this view, the goal of education is to possess a large collection of these facts and procedures. Authentic learning, on the other hand, takes a constructivist approach, in which learning is an active process. Teachers provide opportunities for students to construct their own knowledge through engaging in self-directed inquiry, problem solving, critical thinking, and reflections in real-world contexts. This knowledge construction is heavily influenced by the student's prior knowledge and experiences, as well as by the characteristics that shape the learning environment, such as values, expectations, rewards, and sanctions. Education is more student-centered. Students no longer simply memorize facts in abstract and artificial situations, but they experience and apply information in ways that are grounded in reality.\n\nThere is no definitive description of authentic learning. Educators must develop their own interpretations of what creates meaning for the students in their classrooms. However, the literature suggests that there are several characteristics of authentic learning. It is important to note that authentic learning tasks do not have to have all the characteristics. They can be thought of as being on a spectrum, with tasks being more or less authentic. The characteristics of authentic learning include the following:\n\nWhile there has been much attention given to educational standards for curriculum and assessment, \"the standards for instruction tend to focus on procedural and technical aspects, with little attention to more fundamental standards of quality.\" The challenge is not simply to adopt innovative teaching techniques but to give students the opportunity to use their minds well and to provide students with instruction that has meaning or value outside of achieving success in school. \n\nIn order to address this challenge, a framework consisting of five standards of authentic instruction has been developed by Wisconsin's Center on Organization and Restructuring of Schools. This framework can be a valuable tool for both researchers and teachers. It provides \"a set of standards through which to view assignments, instructional activities, and the dialogue between teacher and students and students with one another.\" \n\nTeachers can use the framework to generate questions, clarify goals, and critique their teaching. Each standard can be assessed on a scale of one to five rather than a categorical yes or no variable. \"The five standards are higher-order thinking, depth of knowledge, connectedness to the world beyond the classroom, substantive conversation, and social support for student achievement.\"\n\nThere are several authentic learning practices in which students may participate. These are a few examples:\n\nEducational research shows that authentic learning is an effective learning approach to preparing students for work in the 21st century. By situating knowledge within relevant contexts, learning is enhanced in all four domains of learning: cognitive (knowledge), affective (attitudes), psychomotor (skills), and psychosocial (social skills). Some of the benefits of authentic learning include the following:\n"}
{"id": "25769362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25769362", "title": "D.H. and Others v Czech Republic", "text": "D.H. and Others v Czech Republic\n\nD.H. and Others v. the Czech Republic (No. 57325/00) was a case decided by the European Court of Human Rights concerning discrimination of Romani children in the education system of the Czech Republic.\n\nMost children from the Roma minority in Ostrava attended special schools with simplified curriculum, forming majority of their students.\n\nThe applicants — 18 Romani students, former and then-attendants of special schools, represented by the European Roma Rights Centre — submitted an application to ECtHR in 2000.\n\nThe Court has declared in 2005 the application admissible in part on Article 14 (prohibition of discrimination), combined with Article 2 of Protocol No. 1 (right to education) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The application in part concerning Articles 3 and 6 was declared inadmissible.\n\nIn 2006, the Second Section of the Court has found no violation in the case, by six votes to one. Judge Costa filed a concurring opinion, agreeing with the majority while saying that \"I came to that conclusion only after some hesitation\". Judge Cabral Barreto filed a dissenting opinion, finding a violation of Article 14, taken together with Article 2 of Protocol No. 1.\n\nThe applicants appealed to the Grand Chamber.\n\nIn 2007, the Grand Chamber has found in the case a violation of Article 14, taken together with Article 2 of Protocol No. 1, by 13 votes to 4. Judges Zupančič, Jungwiert, Borrego Borrego and Šikuta have filed dissenting opinions, finding no violation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30520137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30520137", "title": "DLab", "text": "DLab\n\nDLab was a school for producers of videogames and interactive software in Italy that ran from 2002 to 2007. It offerd courses in the towns of Arezzo, Florence and Ferrara.\n\nIt was founded in 2002 by Fabio Barzagli of Nayma Software and Bernardo Innocenti of Develer. Dlab organized courses with partners such as Cooperativa Sociale Electra, ITIS Galileo Galilei Arezzo, Develer SRL, ISA Firenze, ITIS Carpeggiani Ferrara and Centro Studi CS Pistoia, Regione Toscana. It received grants of over 200,000 Euros from the European Social Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "6630735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6630735", "title": "Digital Curation Centre", "text": "Digital Curation Centre\n\nThe Digital Curation Centre (DCC) was established to help solve the extensive challenges of digital preservation and digital curation and to lead research, development, advice, and support services for higher education institutions in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe original call to establish the DCC described its function as\n\nScientists, researchers and scholars across the UK generate increasingly vast amounts of digital data, with further investment in digitization and purchase of digital content and information. The scientific record and the documentary heritage created in digital form are at risk from obsolescence, from the fragility of digital media, and from lack of the basics of good practice, such as adequate documentation for the data.\n\nWorking with other practitioners, the DCC supports UK institutions who store, manage and preserve these data to help ensure their enhancement and their continuing long-term use. The DCC also provides a national focus for research and development into digital curation issues and to promote expertise and good practice, both national and international, for the management of all research outputs in digital format.\n\nIt provides information about tools developed by the DCC and others which support all parts of the digital curation lifecycle. It provides training in the use of tools and other aspects of digital curation. It provides online tools, such as the Data Management Planning tool, to support the creation and management of research data.\n\nThe DCC runs a number of regular events to support different aspects of its mission. The International Digital Curation Conference (IDCC) acts as a focus for research activity in digital curation as well as reports of practice. The Research Data Management Forum brings together practitioners from a wide range of backgrounds including government, publishers, researchers and funders, to focus on particular topics of common interest. The Data Management Roadshows aim to raise awareness amongst UK universities of the assistance that the DCC can offer with establishing or improving research data services.\n\nJisc took a decision to establish the Digital Curation Centre some time in 2002, having funded a number of projects in the field of digital preservation. JISC's then digital preservation focus, Neil Beagrie, recognised that a number of the more compelling challenges required more than simple preservation of materials. The term digital curation was coined to refer to more active long-term management of digital material. The original call for bids to run the center was withdrawn in July 2003, allowing the UK's e-science programme to add funding for a 4-year research programme to complement the work on education and advocacy funded by JISC. The revised call from July 2003 required bids by 2003-09-18 with an intention to establish the DCC early in 2004. The range of expertise required meant that the funders expected to see collaborative, multi-centre bids. A number were shortlisted with the winning bid chosen on 2003-11-26. Led by the University of Edinburgh (involving its School of Informatics, the National e-Science Centre (NeSC), the EDINA national data centre and the AHRC Centre for the Studies in Intellectual Property and Technology Law) the winning consortium also included HATII at the University of Glasgow, UKOLN at the University of Bath, and the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).\n\nThe DCC began operations early in 2004, with a formal launch on 5 November of that year at Edinburgh's e-science institute. Although it was intended that the centre would be inaugurated by the Duke of Edinburgh, then the university's Chancellor, he instead had to attend the funeral of Princess Alice and his place was taken by Lord Sutherland of Houndwood. The first Acting Director was Peter Burnhill, head of EDINA. He was succeeded by Chris Rusbridge from 2005-02-21 who served until 2010-04-19, when he was succeeded by Kevin Ashley. The original Associate Directors were David Giaretta STFC, Liz Lyon University of Bath, and Seamus Ross HATII.\n\nFollowing the initial 3-year grant, JISC has funded 2 further phases of work at the DCC commencing in 2007 and 2010. The latter continues until March 2013. Research funding from the e-science core program did not continue after the core program itself was wound up. The DCC has continued research and development activities funded by a wide range of grants from other sources.\n\nIn 2011, the DCC received additional funding from HEFCE's Universities Modernisation Fund (UMF) to implement salient recommendations from the UK Research Data Service report of 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "47810996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47810996", "title": "Dutch Museum Association", "text": "Dutch Museum Association\n\nThe Dutch Museum Association (Dutch: \"De Museumvereniging\") is an association of museums in the Netherlands. Over five hundred museums are affiliated with the association.\n\nIn 1926, the Museumvereniging was established as a meeting of museum directors in the Netherlands. In 2003, the Museumkaart foundation was integrated into the Dutch Museum Association organisation. In 2006, the Museumvereniging became an umbrella organisation for the Dutch museums organised into ten subject-specific areas. The Association of National Museums, for example, is included within the Museumvereniging umbrella. Irene Asscher-Vonk is the first president of the Museumvereniging.\n\nDe Museumvereniging focuses on advocacy and professional development of its members and promotes museum visits. It facilitates the Stichting Museumregister Nederland (English: the Dutch Museum Register), which facilitates recognition of the status of these museums. The Dutch Museum Association also facilitates the Ethical Code Commission for Museums. \nAdditionally, the Dutch Museum Association is responsible for the Foundation of the Museumkaart. Approximately 400 of the 500 Dutch Museum Association members are participants in the Museumkaart Foundation, meaning that they accept the Museumkaart. The Dutch Museum Association also organises the Dutch Museumweekend.\n\nAmsterdam\n\nMany of the museums in Amsterdam are members of the Dutch Museum Association as well as the Official Museums of Amsterdam. Additionally, many of these museums are involved in the Museumkaart initiative of the Dutch Museum Association.\n\n\n\nAssociation of state monuments: http://www.derijksmusea.nl/\n"}
{"id": "27609200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27609200", "title": "Edith Selig", "text": "Edith Selig\n\nÉdith Selig-Papée is a French classical soprano in concert, opera and Lied, known for singing music of Johann Sebastian Bach and French composers. She has been teaching at the École Normale de Musique de Paris.\n\nIn 1958, she recorded Mahler's Symphony No. 2 with Eugenia Zareska, the \"Choeurs et Orchestre national de la Radiodiffusion française\" conducted by Carl Schuricht.\n\nShe recorded Bach cantatas with Fritz Werner, the Heinrich-Schütz-Chor Heilbronn and the Pforzheim Chamber Orchestra, including \"Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis, BWV 21\", an early ambitious work in eleven movements, performed in Weimar in 1714 on the third Sunday after Trinity. She also recorded with the same ensemble Bach's \"Actus tragicus\" and \"Easter Oratorio\". In the 1960s she recorded Bach's \"Magnificat\" and \"Missa in F Major\", BWV 233, with Karl Ristenpart, Claudia Hellmann, Georg Jelden, Jakob Stämpfli and Maurice André (trumpet).\n\nShe has specialized in singing works of French composers. In 1960 she recorded in Paris Gluck's \"Orfeo ed Euridice\", conducted by Charles Bruck, with Rita Gorr and Nadine Sautereau. In 1963 she recorded Rameau's Acte de ballet \"Pigmalion\", conducted by Marcel Couraud. She recorded the \"Te Deum\" of Esprit Joseph Antoine Blanchard, conducted by Louis Frémaux. In 1996 she recorded the \"Te Deum\" of Marc-Antoine Charpentier with the Paul Kuentz Chamber Orchestra, conducted by Paul Kuentz.\n\nShe has been teaching at the École Normale de Musique de Paris.\n\nAlong with voice teachers such as Régine Crespin and Jakob Stämpfli, Edith Selig-Papée was a founding member of the European Voice Teachers Association (EVTA) in 1988. She has lectured internationally, such as on \"La Mélodie Francaise\" in Detmold and Philadelphia.\n\nShe has served on the jury of international competitions such as the 23\" Concours international de chant de Paris in 2001\n"}
{"id": "27210633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27210633", "title": "Expressive Processing", "text": "Expressive Processing\n\nExpressive Processing : Digital Fictions, Computer Games, and Software Studies is a digital media textbook authored by Noah Wardrip-Fruin and published through The MIT Press. Throughout the book Wardrip-Fruin takes a look into \"expressive processing\" elements that part take in digital media. Wardrip-Fruin attempts to explain expressive processing through the ELIZA effect, The Tale-Spin Effect, The SimCity Effect, and many other elements of interactive digital media.\n\n"}
{"id": "22496753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22496753", "title": "Florence M. Hawley", "text": "Florence M. Hawley\n\nFlorence Hawley (September 17, 1906 – 1991) was one of the first anthropologists to work extensively on dendrochronology, or tree-ring dating. She conducted archaeological and ethnographic research in the Southwestern United States; and undertook some of the first dendrochronological research in eastern North America in the mid 20th century, examining samples from a number of archaeological sites. She was also highly regarded as a passionate teacher who pushed her students toward greatness by encouraging them to think for themselves and work hard for what they wanted to achieve. Although faced with many challenges in her career, and discriminated against for being a woman, she persevered in her research and became a great influence both for her students and for other women in her field.\n\nFlorence Hawley was born in Cananea Sonora, Mexico where her father was chief chemist for a copper mine. In 1913, after the outbreak of the Mexican Revolution, her family moved to Miami, Arizona. She was introduced to archaeology at a young age from her father during his excavating of ruins around their home in southern Arizona. In 1936 Florence married archaeologist Donovan Senter; together they had a daughter named Andrea. In 1950, after a divorce from Senter, she married Bruce Ellis who was a historian. Their marriage lasted until the time of his death in 1985. She began teaching at the University of Arizona in 1929, where she was introduced to dendrochronology in a class taught by A. E. Douglass. She began teaching at the University of New Mexico fall of 1934 until she retired in 1971. It is possible that more professional anthropologists in the United States were taught by Hawley than by any other member of the profession. Even after her retirement she remained active in field research up until her death in 1991. She continued to write and excavate. She was passionate about her work and even after a broken hip returned to the field during her recuperation to supervise. She broke new ground in her research by developing and applying innovative techniques of chemical analysis, dendrochronology, ethnohistory, and Ethnoarchaeology.\n\nHawley graduated with a B.A. from the University of Arizona in 1927 with a major in English and a minor in anthropology. She received her M.A. in anthropology the next year. She completed her Ph.D. in anthropology at the University of Chicago after teaching at the University of Arizona. She used her excavations from Chetro Ketl for her dissertation, which was on the dated prehistory of Chetro Ketl. She applied the new techniques of dendrochronology and stratigraphic dating of the archaeological deposits to more fully understand the history and evolution of Chetro Ketl.\n\nHawley began teaching at the University of Arizona in 1929. By 1933, the University of Arizona was faced with financial difficulties due to the Great Depression, and they asked most of the young faculty to take a year's leave of absence, which included Hawley. In the fall of 1934, she took a job teaching at the University of New Mexico in the Department of Anthropology where she made less than the male professors. As a professor Hawley was not considered easy; she expected her students to learn and to think on their own. She taught over 20 courses, several of which were usually taught by men. She was found at one point to be teaching more courses than anyone else in the anthropology department. Hawley always brought new theoretical approaches as well as her own ideas into focus while teaching. Her students knew they were expected to organize and comprehend data, in addition to become familiar with the bibliographical material. She continued to work and to teach students in the field after her retirement.\n\nHawley strove for equality for men and women in not only economic but also professional recognition. She contributed to this through participating in the \"Women's Movement\". Because of her superiority in her research as well as teaching, and her persistence to the idea of equality, she was honored at the \"Daughters of the Desert\" symposium as a leader among the women anthropologist who have worked in the Southwest. Hawley served as President of the American Society for Ethnohistory in 1969 and in 1987 she was honored as one of 45 distinguished women featured in a traveling Smithsonian exhibit named \"Daughters of the Desert\". The University of New Mexico acknowledged her accomplishments by granting her an honorary Doctorate of Letters in 1988. The Ghost Ranch of Abiquiu, where she conducted her work in the 1980s, housed her extensive library in a large museum complex that bears her name.\n\nFlorence Hawley applied the training she received from A. E. Douglass's dendrochronology class to tree ring analysis in the Chaco Canyon excavations where she worked with the University of New Mexico field program in the summers of 1929, 1930, and 1931. She conducted ceramic analyses with materials from Chetro Ketl and other sites in the area, and her ceramic chronologies were independently confirmed by tree ring dates. From the Late 1950s through the 1960s she directed a summer archaeological field schools through the University of New Mexico. One of the most prominent discoveries was that of San Gabriel de Yunge, the first Spanish Capital of New Mexico, which dated from 1600, found near San Juan Pueblo. Her work on dendrochronology helped provides a baseline for southwestern chronologies and her work constituted a technical expertise which is still largely in demand. Hawley also conducted dendrochronological research in eastern North America, conducting some of the first such work in the region. She began her tree-ring research in the Midwest around the 1933 - 1934 academic year. She collected tree - ring specimens or inspected samples of archaeological wood from the University of Chicago's excavations in southern Illinois. In 1937, she continued her Midwestern dendrochronological fieldwork and collected 1000 living-tree specimens in eight different states in an effort to identify the climate signal recorded by trees across the Midwest. In 1941, Hawley published Tree-Ring Analysis and Dating in the Mississippi Drainage where she presented the major problems she and her team faced: they were working with new species, they were working across a huge area, there was a shortage in old growth timber because of the extensive tree cutting, and the wood was not preserved well because of the damp mound sediments.\n\nFlorence Hawley participated in many field excavations, including her work at the Chetro Ketl site in Chaco Canyon. After her retirement she continued to offer field training to interested students, which was based around the Ghost Ranch of Abiquiu. In 1934 she and her crew worked in western Kentucky and the Wickliffe mounds as well as in the Norris Basin in Tennessee collecting living- tree specimens, charcoal, and modern specimens. She also did work in the Mississippi Valley, as well as many Midwestern states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10111553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10111553", "title": "Gallimaufry Performing Arts", "text": "Gallimaufry Performing Arts\n\nGallimaufry Performing Arts is a theater and dance company founded in 2004 in Laguna Beach, California by Steve Josephson, the current Executive Artistic Director.\nGallimaufry was founded in 2004 by Steve Josephson. Since its inception, the company has produced 13 fully staged musicals, 5 plays, 11 dance events, 14 musical concerts and many other special events.\n\nIn April 2009, Gallimaufry presented the world premiere of a new play called Scared Money. The play was written by Sherwood Kiraly. Sherwood recently wrote the screenplay for the film Diminished Capacity, which starred Matthew Broderick and Alan Alda. His new play is a comedy about six people searching for hidden Santa Anita Pick Six Racetrack ticket worth $714,000. The title derives from an old saying \"Scared money never wins\", meaning that you shouldn't gamble money you're afraid to lose.\n\nDance days consist of free master classes followed by a free performance on Laguna's \"Main Beach\". Past master classes have ranged from rhythm tap, modern and hip-hop to Afro-Caribbean, Indian and Latin Jazz. Past dance day performances have included the inspirational and explosive Lula Washington Dance Theatre , Erin Landry, the \"spirited grace\" of Backhaus Dance , the \"b-boying, poppin', lockin'\" of JabbaWockeeZ, who became the first winners on the MTV series America's Best Dance Crew, the \"choreographic intricacy and artistry\" of Sean Greene, the premiere of Karama Adesco's ALIVE Contemporary Dance Company, San Francisco's \"lively and sensuous\" Company Chaddick , the contemporary drumming sounds of TAIKOPROJECT , the comic genius of Dudley Brooks' comedy dance troupe \"Run for Your life\" from San Francisco , the beguiling the evocative Indian choreography of Ramaa Bharadvaj & The Angahara Ensemble which also included a Tahitian ensemble .\n\nGallimaufry & Greene is the brainchild of Executive Artistic Director, Steve Josephson. Josephson, the creator of the company’s “Dance Days” and “Songs in the Sand” series, as well as the Executive Director of the inaugural caDance Festival, has built this new company around famed dancer and choreographer, Sean Greene. The new contemporary dance company received its world premiere on April 18, 2007, as part of Gallimaufry's Arts Festival. The company has performed \"The Rite to Fall\", \"Angels\" and \"A Night at the Movies\", which they also took overseas to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.\n\nIn April 2008, Gallimaufry presented Jump Rhythm Jazz Project , the Emmy award winning dance company from Chicago. The group is made up of rhythmically explosive dancer-singer-actors that celebrate jazz. It was founded in 1990 by Billy Siegenfeld, who continues to choreograph for the company and perform as an ensemble member. He received a 2006-2007 Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Achievement for Individual Excellence On Camera/Performer for his work in the multiple-Emmy-Award-winning documentary Jump Rhythm Jazz Project: Getting There.\n\nIn October 2008, Gallimaufry brought a dance troupe straight from the Edinburgh Fringe Festival to perform on Main Beach. The troupe is called the 'Not Man Apart' Physical Theatre Ensemble, and the show was called Pericles Redux , a reconstruction of Shakespeare's romantic odyssey. The show pushed the boundaries between theatre and dance, and was met with rave reviews, both in Edinburgh and Laguna Beach.\n\nCreated in 2006, The Ridiculous Medley is a new vocal performance group that performs for special events, community functions, parties, fundraisers and corporate events. Under the direction of Meredith Woodson-Hubbard, the Ridiculous Medley has already performed for the CHOC Queen of Hearts Guild fundraiser as well as several community events.\n\nGallimaufry was affiliated with the Laguna Beach community choir called \"Lagunatunes\". The choir performs two concerts a year, one during the holiday season and one in early spring. These concerts are performed at the Artists' Theatre.\n\nGallimaufry is part of the Laguna Beach Alliance for the Arts.\nThe Generation GAP is a self-producing teen theatre company. The group focuses on learning all aspects of theatre, including producing, directing, performing, designing, managing, project managing and fundraising. Teens ages 12–18 plan, raise money, produce, design, cast, direct and perform in shows, and in the process learn all the ins and outs of how to run a theatre company. Generation GAP's most recent production was the musical \"Little Women.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2007, Gallimaufry Performing Arts took two shows overseas to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, the world's largest art's festival. Both shows performed in the renowned C venues. The group revived their production of Sordid Lives and a revamped version of Harlem Renaissance. Jonelle Allen received rave reviews for her performance as Florence Mills and the show was chosen as a \"Pick of the Fringe\" by The Gilded Balloon.\nIn 2008, the dance troupe Gallimaufry and Greene performed their show, \"A Night at the Movies\", at the Fringe.\n\nIn 2008, Gallimaufry joined with the Orange County Playwrights' Alliance to conduct a playwright competition. They found both full-length and one-act plays that centered around Halloween. Eight plays were chosen and they were performed the first weekend of November at the Forum Theatre.\n\nSince 2006, Gallimaufry has been presenting concert versions of classic shows on the sands of Main Beach in Laguna. These concerts are free to the public and feature a full orchestra. The first in this series was South Pacific, followed by Carousel and Guys and Dolls. The most recent production was a series of songs from Fiddler on the Roof, My Fair Lady and Chicago.\n\nIn October 2008, Gallimaufry brought a Middle Eastern sketch comedy quartet to Laguna to perform their show. The show was entitled The Arab, The Jew & The Chicken. It was a hit at the 2008 Edinburgh Fringe Festival, and their performance in Laguna was their international debut. The show was written and performed by Arab, Israeli, Jewish and Muslim actors and it focused on conflict, identity and everyday life in the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "2690817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2690817", "title": "German Church School", "text": "German Church School\n\nThe German Church School (GCS) is a social project of the Protestant German Speaking Congregation in the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa. Their origins go back to the year 1966.\n\nThe school is the first, and up to now only, integrative educational \nprogram in Ethiopia, in which blind and seeing children are taught jointly.\n\nA few relief organizations support the project. In the main the school is carried financially through the Protestant German Speaking\nCongregation in Ethiopia and private donors in Europe and the United States.\n\nThe instruction at the school is reserved exclusively for Ethiopian \nchildren of the poorest families from that the slum areas in the \nvicinity of the Church grounds. The staff of the school are completely \nEthiopian men and women.\n\nIn the year 2004, the school was visited by the former German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Eva Köhler, the wife of the former German President Horst Köhler, who praised the German Church School and the \ndecades of work of the Protestant German Speaking Congregation in \nEthiopia, which has membership in the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD).\n\nThe financing of the work of the school is covered through personal \nsponsorships (donations for support of specific children) and private \nfosterships (donations for specific projects) as well as various \nundesignated donations and subsidies from relief organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "44075744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44075744", "title": "Global Campaign for Education", "text": "Global Campaign for Education\n\nGlobal Campaign for Education is an international coalition of non-governmental organizations, working to promote children's and adult education through research and advocacy. It was formed in 1999 as a partnership between NGOs that were separately active in the area, including ActionAid, Oxfam, Education International, Global March Against Child Labour and national networks in around 80 countries including Bangladesh and Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "21792815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21792815", "title": "Hellenic studies", "text": "Hellenic studies\n\nHellenic Studies (also Greek Studies) is an interdisciplinary scholarly field that focuses on the language, literature, history and politics of post-classical Greece. In university, a wide range of courses, expose students to a viewpoints that help them understand the historical and political experiences of Byzantine, Ottoman and modern Greece; the ways in which Greece has borne its several pasts and translated them into the modern era; and the era's distinguished literary and artistic traditions.\n\n\"Hellenic\" refers to a period in Ancient Greek history between 507 BCE (the date of the first democracy in Athens) and 323 BCE (the death of Alexander the Great).\nThis period is also referred to as the age of Classical Greece and should not be confused with The Hellenistic World, which designates the period between Alexander's death and the Roman Empire's conquest of Greece (323/146/31 BCE). The Hellenic World of ancient Greece consisted of the Greek mainland, Crete, the islands of the Greek archipelago and the coast of Asia Minor primarily (though mention is made of cities within the interior of Asia Minor and, of course, the colonies in southern Italy). This is the great Golden Age of Greece and, in the popular imagination, resonates as 'ancient Greece'.\n\nThe great law-giver, Solon, having served as Archon of Athens for 22 years, retired from public life and saw the city, almost immediately, fall under the dictatorship of Peisistratus. Though a dictator, Peisistratus understood Solon's wisdom, carried on his policies and after his death, his son Hippias continued this tradition (though maintaining a dictatorship that favored the aristocracy). His younger brother was assassinated (inspired, according to Thucydides, by a love affair gone wrong and not, as later thought, politically motivated) Hippias then became wary of the Athenians, instituted a rule of terror and was finally overthrown by the army under Kleomenes I of Sparta and Cleisthenes of Athens. Cleisthenes reformed the Athenian constitution and established democracy in the city during 507 BCE. He also followed Solon's lead, but instituted new laws that decreased the artistocracy's power, raised the status of the common people and attempted to join the separate tribes of the mountain, the plain and the shore into one, unified people under a new form of government. According to Will Durant, \"The Athenians themselves were exhilarated by this adventure into sovereignty...they knew the zest of freedom in action, speech and thought; and from that moment they began to lead all Greece in literature and art, even in statesmanship and war\". This foundation of democracy, of a free state consisting of men who \"owned the soil that they tilled and who ruled the state that governed them\", stabilized Athens and provided the groundwork for the Golden Age.\n\nThe list of thinkers, writers, doctors, artists, scientists, statesmen and warriors of the Hellenic World important contributions to western civilization: The statesman Solon, poets Pindar and Sappho, playwrights Sophocles, Euripides, Aeschylus and Aristophanes, the orator Lysias, historians Herodotus and Thucydides, philosophers Zeno of Elea, Protagoras of Abdera, Empedocles of Acragas, Heraclitus, Xenophanes, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, writer and general Xenophon, physician Hippocrates, sculptor Phidias, statesman Pericles, generals Alcibiades and Themistocles and many more lived during this period. The Golden Age, according to the poet Shelley, \"is undoubtedly...the most memorable in the history of the world\" for the accomplishments and advancements made by the people of that time. Herodotus considered his own age as lacking in many ways and looked back to a more ancient past for a paradigm of a true greatness. The writer Hesiod, an 8th-century BCE contemporary of Homer, claimed precisely the same thing about the age Herodotus admired and called his own age \"wicked, depraved and dissolute\" and hoped the future would produce a better breed of man for Greece.\n\nMajor city-states and sacred places of pilgrimage in the Hellenic World were Argos, Athens, Eleusis, Corinth, Delphi, Ithaca, Olympia, Sparta, Thebes, Thrace and Mount Olympus, the home of the gods. The gods played an important part in the lives of the people; so much so that one could face execution for questioning - or even allegedly questioning - their existence, as in the case of Protagoras, Socrates and Alcibiades (the Athenian statesman Critias, sometimes referred to as `the first atheist', only escaped condemnation because he was so powerful). Great works of art and beautiful temples were created for the worship and praise of the various gods and goddesses of the Greeks such as the Parthenon of Athens, dedicated to the goddess Athena Parthenos (Athena the Virgin) and the Temple of Zeus (listed as an Ancient Wonder) at Olympia (both works to which Phidias contributed). The temple of Demeter at Eleusis was the site of the famous Eleusinian Mysteries and is considered the most important rite in ancient Greece. In his works, \"The Iliad\" and \"The Odyssey\", immensely popular and influential in the Hellenic World, Homer depicted the gods and goddesses as intimately involved in the lives of the people. The deities were regularly consulted in domestic matters as well as affairs of state. The Oracle at Delphi was considered so important at the time that people from all over the known world came to Greece to ask advice or favors from the god. It was considered vital to consult with the supernatural forces before embarking on any military campaign.\n\nAmong the famous battles of the Hellenic World were the Battle of Marathon (490 BCE), the Battles of Thermopylae and Salamis (480 BCE), Plataea (479 BCE,) and the Battle of Chaeronea (338 BCE) where the forces of the Macedonian King Philip II commanded, in part, by his son Alexander, defeated the Greek forces and unified the Greek city-states. After Philip's death, Alexander conquered the world of his day, becoming Alexander the Great. His campaigns brought Greek culture, language and civilization to the world and, after his death, left the legacy that came to be known as the Hellenistic World.\n\nBrown University's Committee of Modern Greek Studies sponsors the Department Of Classics Language instruction began in 1972. Instruction in Modern Greek literature and history began in 1995.\n\nColumbia University offers Hellenic Studies\n\nThe University of Florida's Center for Greek Studies brings together under one aegis the various UF courses and programs that deal with Greece past and present, to promote the values of Greek civilization and to assist local citizens in their interactions with Greece.\n\nThe University of Indianapolis' Office of Hellenic Studies offers a Study Abroad Program.\n\nThe University of Missouri-St. Louis hosts a Greek Studies program including a Hellenic Government-Karakas Foundation Professorship in Greek Studies. Its mission is to focus, develop and sustain research, teaching and public education on Hellenism.\n\nJohns Hopkins University publishes a Journal of Modern Greek Studies. The journal publishes critical analyses of Greek social, cultural and political affairs, covering the period from the late Byzantine Empire to the present.\n\nNYU's A.S. Onassis Program in Hellenic Studies offers a comprehensive and interdisciplinary understanding of the language, literature, history and politics of post-classical Greece. Students are exposed to multiple viewpoints that help them understand the historical and political experiences of Byzantium, Ottoman Empire and modern Greece; the ways that Greece has borne its pasts and translated them into the modern era; and Greece's literary and artistic traditions of a country.\n\nThe University's Bobst Library is home to two endowed collections of Hellenic Studies: the Papamarkou Library of Byzantine and Medieval Greek Books and the Vardinoyannis Library of Hellenic Civilizations. \"NYU in Athens\" gives students the opportunity to study in Greece.\n\nPrinceton's Program in Hellenic Studies was established in 1979.\n\nHellenic Studies began at SFU in 1996 with the establishment of the Hellenic Canadian Congress of British Columbia Chair in Hellenic Studies, made possible by donations from the Hellenic Community of Vancouver with matching funds from the Province of British Columbia. The inaugural chair-holder, Dr. André Gerolymatos, has since worked to secure more funding and resources to expand the discipline at SFU.\n\nIn 2011, these efforts culminated in the establishment of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Centre for Hellenic Studies, through a generous multimillion-dollar donation by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The centre supports the Hellenic Studies Program at SFU which offers undergraduate courses in Ancient, Byzantine, Early Modern and Modern Greek History, in addition to Archaeology and Greek language training. Graduate students working with Hellenic Studies faculty receive significant financial support as well as teaching and publication opportunities.\n\nThe SNF Centre for Hellenic Studies is also host to the SNF New Media Lab, a leading innovator of online and mobile solutions for the education and cultural sectors. A key speciality of the Lab is online and mobile language education for Modern Greek. Moreover, its proprietary Odysseas technology has also been used for French, Italian, Arabic, as well as for the teaching and preservation of 13 critically endangered First Nations languages in Western Canada.\n\nYale's Hellenic Studies Program was established in July 2001. It organizes lectures, symposia, conferences and supports faculty and student scholarly activities, as well as cultural events. It offers a program of instruction in modern Greek at the elementary, intermediate and advanced levels and cooperates closely with Yale's Center for Language Study on the development of teaching aids. The Program offers courses in modern Greek literature and culture as well as in Ottoman and modern Greek history.\n\nYork's Hellenic Studies Program began\non January 28, 2000.\n\nMembers of the Australian Greek community have expressed concern about the decline in Modern Greek Studies as a discipline.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48443559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48443559", "title": "IC3 (certification)", "text": "IC3 (certification)\n\nThe IC3 certification (Internet Core Competency Certification) is a global benchmark for basic computer literacy, including operating systems, hardware, software, and networks. The test is administered by Certiport®.\n\nOfficial Certiport IC3 Page\n"}
{"id": "23562155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23562155", "title": "Insectarium (Philadelphia)", "text": "Insectarium (Philadelphia)\n\nThe Insectarium is a museum about insects located in the Northeast part of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The museum opened in 1992 and features displays of many types of live insects, mounted specimens, exhibits and hands-on activities. Examples of the live insects (and other arthropods) include honeybees, tarantulas, cockroaches, scorpions, spiders, praying mantis, millipedes, beetles, water bugs, ants, and crickets. In 2017 the museum expanded and will open a 7,000-square-foot greenhouse for a year-round butterfly pavilion. \n\n"}
{"id": "16762236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16762236", "title": "Integrated and Environmental Plant Management Association", "text": "Integrated and Environmental Plant Management Association\n\nThe Integrated and Environmental Plant Management Association (IEPMA) is mainly an educational association, with an annual conference held in January in Kelowna, British Columbia as one of its main focuses. The Conference draws participants from throughout British Columbia and Alberta–with speakers from government (municipal, provincial, and federal), universities, colleges, and industry. Participants in these conferences can gain CEC’s (Continuing Education Credits) toward renewal of the BC Pesticide Applicator Certificate.\n\nThe IEPMA was originally constituted to represent professional pesticide applicators in British Columbia. Through the years, however, its membership has become more diverse, and now also includes landscape consultants and representatives from commercial nurseries, school districts, golf courses, and various departments of municipal governments.\n\nThe forerunner of the IEPMA was the Environmental Standards Association, formed in 1983 in Kelowna. The association was reconstituted in Penticton, British Columbia in 1992 as the IEPMA, with Dudley Gordon as its first President.\n\n"}
{"id": "4665199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665199", "title": "Intercultural competence", "text": "Intercultural competence\n\nIntercultural competence is a range of cognitive, affective, and behavioural skills that lead to effective and appropriate\ncommunication with people of other cultures. Effective intercultural communication relates to behaviors that culminate with the accomplishment of the desired goals of the interaction and all parties involved in the situation. Appropriate intercultural communication includes behaviors that suit the expectations of a specific culture, the characteristics of the situation, and the level of the relationship between the parties involved in the situation.\n\nIt's very important for someone to be culturally competent at work and at school. Individuals that are effective and appropriate in intercultural situations display high levels of cultural self-awareness and understand the influence of culture on behavior, values, and beliefs. Intercultural competence is achieved through a set of skills that includes cognitive, affective, and behavioral processes.\n\nFirst, cognitive processes imply the understanding of situational and environmental aspects of intercultural interactions and the application of intercultural awareness, which is affected by the understanding of the self and own culture. Self-awareness in intercultural situations refers to the ability of self-monitoring in such interactions to censor anything not acceptable to another culture. On the other hand, cultural awareness leads the individual to an understanding of how his/her own culture determines feelings, thoughts, and personality.\n\nSecondly, affective processes define the emotions that span during intercultural interactions. These emotions are strongly related to self-concept, open-mindedness, non-judgementalism, and social relaxation. In general, positive emotions generate respect for other cultures and their differences.\n\nFinally, behavioral processes refer to how effectively and appropriately the individual directs actions to achieve goals. Actions during intercultural interactions are influenced by the ability to clearly convey a message, proficiency with the foreign language, flexibility and management of behavior, and social skills.\n\nIntercultural competence is determined by the presence of cognitive, affective, and behavioral abilities that directly shape communication across cultures. These essential abilities can be separated into five specific skills that are obtained through education and experience:\n\nThe United States in its earliest history had a culture influenced heavily by its Northern European population, primarily from the British Isles, who originally settled in the original British Colonies. While the indigenous peoples, known as Indians, were the largest population of North America, they were slowly pushed away from the Eastern Seaboard into the interior of North America during the 17th century, 18th century, and 19th century (see Indian Removal Act describing specific actions during early 19th century). During this period, people from the British Isles (England and Scotland primarily) brought the culture and religion of the British Isles with them to the United States and became the dominant political and cultural group along the Eastern Seaboard of North America.\n\nBoth voluntary immigration from other regions as well as the results of the Atlantic slave trade, brought a mix of people to the Americas, including Europeans, Africans, and, to a lesser extent until the 20th century, Asians. Thus began the process of diversifying the population of the Western Hemisphere. While the majority of the U.S. population were white immigrants from northern and western Europe and their descendants, they maintained most of the power, social and economic, of the nation.\n\nIn the U.S. context, immigration from the 1840s onward diversified the ethnic composition of the nation. During the early part of the 20th century, southern and eastern European immigrants and their descendants became a larger percentage of the population, but as recent immigrants concentrated in urban areas were also very often poor and lacking in basic healthy living and working conditions. Descendants of African slaves and immigrants faced a much more difficult challenge due to their skin color and discrimination enforced by legal systems, such as the Jim Crow laws in the United States. Since the 1960s, African Americans as well as other minority groups such as Mexican Americans have gained greater social and economic status and power.\n\nNonetheless, the dominant models of education and social services retained models developed by northern and western European intellectuals, even such well-meaning and important reformers as Jane Addams and Jacob Riis. After the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, though, social workers, activists, and even healthcare providers began to examine their practices to see if they were as effective in African American, Latino, and even Asian American communities in the U.S. The arrival of more than half a million Southeast Asian refugees, from 1975 to 1992, for example, tested the ability of medical and social workers to continue effective practice among speakers of other languages and among those coming from very different understandings of everything from mental health to charity.\n\nWith the larger population of minorities and racial integration during the 1960s and 1970s, the public school system of the United States had to grapple with issues of cultural sensitivity as most teachers in public school system came from white, middle class backgrounds. Most of these teachers were educated, primarily English speaking, and primarily from the Western European cultures. They often had trouble trying to communicate with speakers of limited English proficiency, let alone people of vastly different value systems and normative behaviors from that of Anglo-European culture. The purpose of training educators and others in the area of cultural competence is to provide new teachers the background and skills to work effectively with children of all backgrounds and social classes.\n\nWith the growing diversity of the student body in U.S. public school, it is increasingly imperative that teachers have and continually develop a cultural competence that enables them to connect with, respond to, and interact effectively with their pupils. The achievement gap between cultural minority and majority students suggests a communication disconnect often occurs in minority classrooms because cultural mismatch between teachers and students is common and should not prevent positive, productive for both parties, provided the educator is a culturally competent communicator. Over the last few decades, scholars have increasingly shown interest in the relationship between learning, reading, schema, and culture. People's schema depends on their social location, which, as Anderson (1984) explains, includes a reader's age, sex, race, religion, nationality, and occupation, amongst other factors. Considering schemata determine how people understand, interpret, and analyze everything in their world, it is clear that background and experience really do affect the learning and teaching processes, and how each should be approached in context. \"In short,\" Anderson (1984) says, \"the schema that will be brought to bear on a text depends upon the reader's culture\" (p. 374-375). More simply, Anderson (1984) describes a person's schema as their \"organized knowledge about the world\" (p. 372). In considering the role of schema, one of the educator's principal functions in teaching, particularly with literacy, is to \"‘bridge the gap between what the learner already knows and what he needs to know before he can successfully learn the task at hand'\" (Anderson, 1984, p. 382). This is important because Staton (1989) explains that student learning—i.e. successful communication between instructor and pupil—occurs when teachers and students come to \"shared understandings\" (p. 364). Thus, teachers must remember that they are \"cultural workers, not neutral professionals using skills on a culturally-detached playing field\" (Blanchett, Mumford & Beachum, 2005, p. 306).\n\nTeachers and administrators in the public school systems of the United States come in contact with a wide variety of sub-cultures and are at the forefront of the challenge of bringing diverse groups together within a larger American society. Issues confronting teachers and administrators on a daily basis include student learning disabilities, student behavioral problems, child abuse, drug addiction, mental health, and poverty, most of which are handled differently within different cultures and communities.\n\nExamples of cultural conflicts often seen by teachers in the public school system include:\n\nExamples of sub-groups within the United States: African American, Asian American, Indian American, Irish American, Jewish American, Mexican American, Native Americans or American Indians and refugees.\n\nThe provision of culturally tailored health care can improve patient outcomes. In 2005, California passed Assembly Bill 1195 that requires patient-related continuing medical education courses in California medical school to incorporate cultural and linguistic competence training in order to qualify for certification credits. In 2011, HealthPartners Institute for Education and Research implemented the EBAN Experience™ program to reduce health disparities among minority populations, most notably East African immigrants.\n\nThe term \"Hispanic\" is problematic. It is impossible to refer to \"a Hispanic-American perspective\" or to \"a single Latino culture\".(1)(2) The label \"Hispanic\" is controversial because it was coined by the Federal Government to describe a heterogeneous ethnic population whose ancestors come from a Spanish-speaking country. Although these American citizens have Latin American roots, the term \"Latino\" to characterize them is more correct since it is more inclusive of non-Spanish-speaking Latinos. However, the term \"Latino\" does not include individuals from Spanish-speaking countries outside of Latin America (e.g., Spain).\n\nThere is also a lack of adequate research into how race and ethnicity affects members of a group.(3)(4)(5) There are few life histories and phenomenological studies of illness as experienced by people outside the American white, urban, middle class, especially of immigrant and native populations. Race has been used to explain the absence of research. Racial classifications are based on outmoded concepts and dubious assumptions regarding genetic differences. In fact, outside of skin color, race is poorly correlated with biological or cultural phenomena, which sharply diminishes its validity in biomedical or social research. Yet, unlike race or national origin, ethnicity is a sociological construct highly correlated with behavioral and cultural phenomena, particularly language, dress, adornment, food preference, religion, social interaction, marriage and family customs.\n\nFurther research is needed to determine whether race and ethnicity among Latinos are rather driven by mechanisms of discrimination and macrosocial factors or social status. Fortunately, not too long ago, the National Institutes of Health took an important step by insisting that any NIH- supported clinical investigation include, where appropriate, minority populations, women and the aged.(6) However, we must guard against what has been called a new \"tokenism\", that is, having a large aggregate of \"non-whites\", and a few African Americans and Hispanics included. This aggregate will never produce a proper sample. Rigorous attention to sample size, composition and sampling strategies is required to research basic psychosocial processes and clinical responses of minority populations. Accordingly, the heterogeneity of the Hispanic community has to be taken into account. The Hispanic's country of origin, cultural history, migration history, language, family, traditions, religion, educational level, socio-economic status, gender, sexual orientation, age and generation—all need to be explored.\n\nCross-cultural competence (3C) has generated confusing and contradictory definitions because it has been studied by a wide variety of academic approaches and professional fields. One author identified eleven different terms that have some equivalence to 3C: cultural savvy, astuteness, appreciation, literacy or fluency, adaptability, terrain, expertise, competency, awareness, intelligence, and understanding. The United States Army Research Institute, which is currently engaged in a study of 3C has defined it as \"A set of cognitive, behavioral, and affective/motivational components that enable individuals to adapt effectively in intercultural environments\".\n\nOrganizations in academia, business, health care, government security, and developmental aid agencies have all sought to use 3C in one way or another. Poor results have often been obtained due to a lack of rigorous study of 3C and a reliance on \"common sense\" approaches.\n\nCross-cultural competence does not operate in a vacuum, however. One theoretical construct posits that 3C, language proficiency, and regional knowledge are distinct skills that are inextricably linked, but to varying degrees depending on the context in which they are employed. In educational settings, Bloom's affective and cognitive taxonomies serve as an effective framework for describing the overlapping areas among these three disciplines: at the receiving and knowledge levels, 3C can operate with near-independence from language proficiency and regional knowledge. But, as one approaches the internalizing and evaluation levels, the overlapping areas approach totality.\n\nThe development of intercultural competence is mostly based on the individual's experiences while he or she is communicating with different cultures. When interacting with people from other cultures, the individual experiences certain obstacles that are caused by differences in cultural understanding between two people from different cultures. Such experiences may motivate the individual to acquire skills that can help him to communicate his point of view to an audience belonging to a different cultural ethnicity and background.\n\nA salient issue, especially for people living in countries other than their native country, is the issue of which culture they should follow: their native culture or the one in their new surroundings.\n\nInternational students also face this issue: they have a choice of modifying their cultural boundaries and adapting to the culture around them or holding on to their native culture and surrounding themselves with people from their own country. The students who decide to hold on to their native culture are those who experience the most problems in their university life and who encounter frequent culture shocks. But international students who adapt themselves to the culture surrounding them (and who interact more with domestic students) will increase their knowledge of the domestic culture, which may help them to \"blend in\" more. In the article it stated, \"Segmented assimilation theorists argue that students from less affluent and racial and ethnic minority immigrant families face a number of educational hurdles and barriers that often stem from racial, ethnic, and gender biases and discrimination embedded within the U.S. public school system\" (Bondy).\nSuch individuals may be said to have adopted bicultural identities.\n\nAnother issue that stands out in intercultural communication is the attitude stemming from Ethnocentrism. LeVine and Campbell (as cited in Lin and Rancer, 2003) defines ethnocentrism as people's tendency to view their culture or in-group as superior to other groups, and to judge those groups to their standards. With ethnocentric attitudes, those incapable to expand their view of different cultures could create conflict between groups. Ignorance to diversity and cultural groups contributes to prevention of peaceful interaction in a fast-paced globalizing world. The counterpart of ethnocentrism is ethnorelativism: the ability to see multiple values, beliefs, norms etc. in the world as cultural rather than universal; being able to understand and accept different cultures.\n\nCultural characteristics can be measured along several dimensions that were defined by Geert Hofstede in his studies of cultural differences. The ability to perceive them and to cope with them is fundamental for intercultural competence. These characteristics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also:\" Chronemics\n\nThe assessment of cross-cultural competence is another field that is rife with controversy. One survey identified 86 assessment instruments for 3C. A United States Army Research Institute study narrowed the list down to ten quantitative instruments that were suitable for further exploration of their reliability and validity.\n\nThe following characteristics are tested and observed for the assessment of intercultural competence as an existing ability or as the potential to develop it: ambiguity tolerance, openness to contacts, flexibility in behavior, emotional stability, motivation to perform, empathy, metacommunicative competence, and polycentrism.\n\nThree examples of quantitative assessment instruments are:\n\nResearch in the area of 3C assessment, while thin, points to the value of qualitative assessment instruments in concert with quantitative ones. Qualitative instruments, such as scenario-based assessments, are useful for gaining insight into intercultural competence.\n\nIntercultural coaching frameworks, such as the ICCA™ (Intercultural Communication and Collaboration Appraisal), do not attempt an assessment; they provide guidance for personal improvement based upon the identification of personal traits, strengths, and weaknesses.\n\nIt is important that cross-cultural competence training and skills does not break down into the application of stereotypes. Although its goal is to promote understanding between groups of individuals that, as a whole, think differently, it may fail to recognize specific differences between individuals of any given group. Such differences can be more significant than the differences between groups, especially in the case of heterogeneous populations and value systems.\n\nMadison (2006) has criticized the tendency of 3C training for its tendency to simplify migration and cross-cultural processes into stages and phases. Madison's article offers an outline of the original research.\n\nSee also a recent article by Witte summarizing objections to cultural theories used in business and social life.\n\n"}
{"id": "18475648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18475648", "title": "International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition", "text": "International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition\n\nInternational Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition, August 23 of each year, the day designated by UNESCO to memorialize the transatlantic slave trade.\n\nThat date was chosen by the adoption of resolution 29 C/40 by the Organization's General Conference at its 29th session. Circular CL/3494 of July 29, 1998, from the Director-General invited Ministers of Culture to promote the day. The date is significant because, during the night of August 22 to August 23, 1791, on the island of Saint Domingue (now known as Haiti), an uprising began which set forth events which were a major factor in the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade.\n\nUNESCO Member States organize events every year on that date, inviting participation from young people, educators, artists and intellectuals. As part of the goals of the intercultural UNESCO project, \"The Slave Route\", it is an opportunity for collective recognition and focus on the \"historic causes, the methods and the consequences\" of slavery. Additionally, it sets the stage for analysis and dialogue of the interactions which gave rise to the transatlantic trade in human beings between Africa, Europe, the Americas and the Caribbean.\n\nThe International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition was first celebrated in a number of countries, in particular in Haiti on August 23, 1998 and Senegal on August 23, 1999. A number of cultural events and debates were organized.\n\nIn 2001 the Museum of Printed Textiles (Musée de l'impression sur étoffes) in Mulhouse, France, conducted a fabric workshop entitled \"Indiennes de Traite\" (a type of calico) used as currency in trade for Africans.\n\nNational Museums Liverpool and the black community in Liverpool have held events to commemorate Slavery Remembrance Day since 1999. The Liverpool Slavery Remembrance Initiative - a partnership between National Museums Liverpool, individuals from the Liverpool Black community, Liverpool City Council, Liverpool Culture Company and The Mersey Partnership - was founded in 2006 to lead on the organisation of the event. The International Slavery Museum in Liverpool opened its doors on August 23, 2007.\nThe \"Walk of Remembrance\" through the city began in 2011, which has been led by Dr Gee Walker since 2013. The route passes the site of Old Dock where slave ships were moored and been repaired, and finishes at the Dr Martin Luther King Jr Building where it is closed by a Libation ceremony at Albert Dock.\n\nThe inaugural Slavery Remembrance National Memorial Service will be held on 21 August 2016 in Trafalgar Square. \nThe National Maritime Museum in Greenwich hosts an annual commemoration event on 23 August which closes with a silent ceremony on the banks of the river Thames.\n\nOther comparable international observances include: \nand: \n\n"}
{"id": "5333211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5333211", "title": "International University of Monaco", "text": "International University of Monaco\n\nThe International University of Monaco (IUM) is located on the western edge of the Principality of Monaco, next to the Port of Fontvieille, the Monaco Heliport and the Princess Grace Rose Garden. The principality's only university, it enjoys a scenic spot on the French Riviera steps away from the Mediterranean Sea. Founded in 1986, IUM offers various undergraduate and graduate degrees in business that range in length from 10 months to 4 years. Students can opt for specializations in Finance, Luxury, Marketing, Sport Business Management and International Management. All business programs are taught in English and the school is housed in a section of the principality's Stade Louis II. The university is a part of Groupe INSEEC, a leader in private higher education in France.\n\nThe international university of Monaco has the support of the Monegasque princely family with Prince Albert II sometimes lending his assistance to the year-end graduating ceremonies. Past ceremonies have been held at the Café de Paris Monte-Carlo, as well as the Oceanographic Museum of Monaco. In addition, a range of scholarships exist to help qualifying students with their tuition fees. The school was originally known as the University of Southern Europe before updating its name in 2002 to better reflect both its ideology and location in Fontvieille, Monaco.\n\nThe school maintains a number of international memberships including: the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD), and the European Council of International Schools (ECIS). The MBA programs at the university are accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA. The IUMs current student body and alumni represent more than seventy-five nationalities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50302301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50302301", "title": "Islamic Association of Teachers of Iran", "text": "Islamic Association of Teachers of Iran\n\nThe Islamic Association of Teachers of Iran () is an Iranian reformist teacher's political organization/labor union. Most members of the association are employees of Ministry of Education.\nAccording to its official website, the union was established by Mohammad Ali Rajai, Mohammad Beheshti and Mohammad Javad Bahonar before the revolution.\n\nFormer MPs Goharolsharieh Dastgheib, Ateghe Sediqi, Morteza Katiraie, Abbas Duzduzani are members of the association. Former Minister of Education Hossein Mozaffar is also a member. \n"}
{"id": "49583209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49583209", "title": "Jam Music Lab", "text": "Jam Music Lab\n\nThe JAM MUSIC LAB - Conservatory for Jazz and Popular Music Vienna is an Austrian music conservatory with recognition as a public education institution. In 2017 the institute received accreditation as a Private University. It is located in the \"Music City Gasometer\" in the 11th district of Vienna, Austria\n\nThe conservatory was founded in June 2011 by Marcus Ratka, Joe Valentin and Andy Bartosh. In November 2011 the Austrian Federal Ministry for Education, Arts and Culture amended regulation on study support for students in conservatories. This in turn gave students in conservatories equal status to other students in Austria when applying for and receiving financial support as part of the Austrian Student Support Act. The JAM MUSIC LAB was first granted public status in March 2012 and therefore officially acknowledged by the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. Permanent public status was awarded to the conservatory in June 2014. In January 2017 the institute received accreditation as \"JAM MUSIC LAB - Private University for Jazz and Popular Music\" and became the 13th Private University in Austria and the 3rd that focuses on music and arts.\n\nThe \"JAM MUSIC LAB - Conservatory for Jazz and Popular Music Vienna\" specializes in the fields of jazz and popular music. Students can enrol in four-year vocational diploma courses, which are divided into the following:\n\nThe \"JAM MUSIC LAB - Private University for Jazz and Popular Music Vienna\" offers four-year bachelor studies and subsequent two-year master studies.\nThe following academic degrees can be awarded:\n\nStudents are required to undergo a special entrance exam in order to be approved for any of the courses/studies. A preliminary course is also offered as a means of preparation for the entrance exam.\n"}
{"id": "8280040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8280040", "title": "Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board", "text": "Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board\n\nThe Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) is a Nigerian entrance examination board for tertiary-level institutions. The board conducts entrance examinations for prospective undergraduates into Nigerian universities. The board is also charged with the responsibility to administer similar examinations for applicants to Nigerian public and private monotechnics, polytechnics, and colleges of educations. All of these candidates must have obtained the West Africa School Certificate, now West African Examinations Council, WAEC, or its equivalent, National Examination Council (Nigeria), NECO.\n\nThe pioneer Registrar was Mr. Michael Saidu Angulu who served from inception in 1978 to 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17145124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17145124", "title": "K12 (company)", "text": "K12 (company)\n\nK12 Inc. is a for-profit education company that sells online schooling and curricula. K12 is an education management organization (EMO) that provides online education designed as alternatives alternative to traditional \"bricks and mortar\" education for public school students from kindergarten to 12th grade. Publicly traded K12 is the largest EMO in terms of enrollment.\n\nK12 and similar for-profit online schools have been criticized for graduation rates less than half the average of all public schools.\n\nThe company was founded by former banker Ronald J. Packard. Initial investors in the company included Michael R. Milken and Lowell Milken of education company Knowledge Universe, who along with the Milken Family Foundation, invested $10 million. Andrew Tisch of the Loews Corporation and Larry Ellison of Oracle Corporation also contributed venture capital. It became a publicly traded company on December 13, 2007.\n\nWilliam Bennett, Secretary of Education under Ronald Reagan was hired as the company's first chairman of the board, serving until 2005. In 2005, the Philadelphia Board of Education called for the termination of a $3M science curriculum contract with K12 after Bennett said, \"if you wanted to reduce crime ... you could abort every black baby in the country and your crime rate would go down. That would be an impossible, ridiculous, and morally reprehensible thing to do, but your crime rate would go down.\" Bennett subsequently resigned from the K12 board and his part-time position with K12. The contract was not revoked, but was not renewed at the end of the contract term. Founder Packard resigned in 2014 to start Pansophic Learning.\n\nOn February 13, 2018, Stuart Udell resigned from his role as CEO of K12. Nate Davis, the previous CEO, replaced Udell as the current CEO.\n\nK12 is a for-profit education management organization (EMO). In this sector, K12 does not operate physical schools, but provides online curriculum to home-schooled children and other schools. K12 was the largest EMO in the US in 2011–2012. K12's for-profit rival EdisonLearning has also moved away from physical schoolhouses to virtual offerings.\n\nK12 offers its on-line curriculum at three levels:\n\nIn 2015, 526 virtual schools in the United States enrolled 278,511 students. \n\nK12 competes with non-profit educational organizations known as charter management organizations (CMOs) that typically run brick-and-mortar schools. Other large non-profits are Imagine Schools (55 schools), KIPP (209 schools), and Cosmos. Multi-state EMOs and CMOs control about a third of the charter school market. K12 provides full-service solutions to online non-profit CMOs including Agora and Insight in Pennsylvania. The company manages state-funded virtual charter schools and hybrid schools in twenty-nine U.S. states and the District of Columbia. In 2015, K12 was CMO (and charter holder) for schools enrolling 44,559 students.\n\nK12’s product line includes courses for pre-K, elementary, middle, and high school grades, online learning platforms, and educational software. K12 sells a range of packages, from turn-key online school systems to individual courses for students.\n\nThe K-8 curriculum includes core subject areas: math, science, language arts, history, art, music, and world languages. The majority of lessons in the early grades are offline using textbooks, printed materials, and hands-on activities. The learning coach (typically a parent or guardian) is expected to spend three to five hours each day monitoring students' progress, logging attendance, and facilitating lessons. Short answer or multiple choice assessments are given at the end of most lessons in K-8 and are administered and recorded by the learning coach. \n\nAt the high school level (grades 9-12), students complete all coursework online. Less parental involvement is expected. In high school, teachers monitor student's progress and grade tests and assignments. In addition to core and comprehensive courses, students can choose remedial, Honors, Credit Recovery and Advanced Placement options. Unlike in the K-8 grades, high school courses take place mostly online. Students attend live online classes and have more communication with teachers, via e-mail, phone, and online conferences. \n\nIn all cases, the school assigns a state-certified teacher to assist the coach and student. The cost to a sponsoring agency depends on the teacher-student ratio selected. K12 offered the Commonwealth of Virginia three plans: a teacher-student ratio of forty, fifty, or sixty to one. Teacher interaction is accomplished through virtual classroom environments using Blackboard Collaborate, telephone, and face-to-face meetings and events. In hybrid schools, students complete the same curriculum but attend a physical building and participate in classes with other students and teachers.\n\nK12 offers itself through a variety of brands.\n\nK12 develops identities for specific opportunities. In Union County, Tennessee, it has operated Tennessee Virtual Academy since 2011. In Pennsylvania, it operates Insight Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School.\n\nK12 operates Hoosier Academy Virtual Charter School, an online charter school in Indiana that enrolled 3,681 students in 2016. The school is scheduled to be closed in June 2018.\n\nK12 Inc. operates three online private schools: K12 International Academy (AKA iCademy for short), George Washington University Online High School, and the Keystone School. In 2011, George Washington University partnered with K12, inc. to offer a full-time online private school accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools commissions on Elementary and Secondary Schools.\n\nK12 Inc. offers career and technical education programs at public schools, called Destinations Career Academies and Programs to students in grades 9-12.\n\nIn April 2014, K12 Inc. established wholly owned subsidiary, Fuel Education. Fuel Education operates as a separate legal entity from K12 Inc., and houses different personalized learning programs.\n\nThe National Education Policy Center regularly conducts studies of the performance of K12 and other for-profit virtual schools including Connections Academy (a subsidiary of Pearson Education). These studies have not been encouraging.\n\nA study at Western Michigan University and the National Education Policy Center found that only a third of K12’s schools achieved Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP), which is required for public schools by the federal No Child Left Behind (NCLB) legislation. According to the Times, \"By almost every educational measure, the Agora Cyber Charter School [a school run by K12] is failing.\" In Pennsylvania, 42% of Agora students tested at grade level or better in math, compared with 75% of students statewide. 52% of Agora students tested at grade level or better in reading, compared with 72% statewide. Nonetheless, Agora brought K12 $72 million in the 2011 school year – more than 10% of K12's revenue. Agora terminated its contract with K12 in 2014. Proponents argue that such statistics are undermined by the fact that a significant proportion of newly enrolled students begin several grade levels behind because of an alleged failure of brick and mortar schools. Education reformers such as United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, have further stated that AYP is not an accurate measure of a school’s performance and estimated that under NCLB, as many as \"82 percent of America's schools could be labeled 'failing'\".\n\nThe press and politicians have been equally critical. A 2012 PolitiFact.com article noted K12's poor performance in Tennessee. The \"New York Times\" investigated K12 and concluded that the company squeezes profits from public school funding by raising enrollment, increasing teacher workload, and lowering standards. The \"Washington Post\" raised similar issues.\n\nK12 defends its position, describing its student base as \"at risk\" to begin with.\n\n\"The New York Times\" wrote that company profits are used to pay for advertising and lobbying state officials. K12 spent $26.5M on advertising in 2010 and the company and its employees contributed nearly $500,000 to state political candidates from 2004 to 2010. K12 has contributed money to organizations like Pennsylvania Families for Public Cyber Schools, which lobbied for online schools. In Ohio, an organization founded by a K12 official hired temp agency workers to demonstrate with signs against state representative Steven Dryer, who challenged their funding.\n\n"}
{"id": "9997146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9997146", "title": "Klaus Wunder", "text": "Klaus Wunder\n\nKlaus Wunder (born 13 September 1950 in Erfurt) is a former German footballer who played for FC Bayern Munich and was part of their European Cup victory in 1975. He earned one cap for the Germany national football team and also represented West Germany at the 1972 Summer Olympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "5641067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5641067", "title": "List of schools of international relations", "text": "List of schools of international relations\n\nThis is a list of schools with dedicated or teaching programs in international relations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAmerican University Of Dubai\n"}
{"id": "650446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650446", "title": "Língua Geral", "text": "Língua Geral\n\nLíngua Geral (, \"General Language\") is the name of two distinct lingua francas, spoken in Brazil: the \"Língua Geral Paulista\" (\"tupi austral\", or Southern Tupi), which was spoken in the region of São Paulo but is now extinct, and the \"língua geral amazônica\" (\"tupinambá\") of the Amazon whose modern descendant is Nheengatu.\n\nBoth were simplified versions of the Tupi language, the native language of the Tupi people. Portuguese colonizers arrived in Brazil in the 16th century, and faced with an indigenous population that spoke many languages, they sought a means to establish effective communication among the many groups. The two languages were used in the Jesuit Reductions, the Jesuit missions in Brazil and by early colonists; and came to be used by black slaves and other Indian groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38364467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38364467", "title": "Marie Forleo", "text": "Marie Forleo\n\nMarie Forleo (born December 7, 1975) is an American life coach, motivational speaker, author and web television host of Marie TV. She is the owner of Marie Forleo International, B-School and MarieTV.\n\nForleo was raised in New Jersey. She graduated from Seton Hall University with a degree in business finance in 1997.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Forleo became a trading assistant on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). She left the NYSE to work for \"Gourmet\" and \"Mademoiselle\". Forleo took an online course to learn the skills necessary to coach clients. In 2001, she established a newsletter and gained subscribers and coaching clients from relationships she formed while bartending and instructing fitness and dance classes. She became one of the first Nike Elite Dance Athletes in 2005.\n\nIn 2008, Forleo released \"Make Every Man Want You: How to Be So Irresistible You'll Barely Keep from Dating Yourself!\". The book is published in sixteen different languages. The following year, she founded Marie Forleo International, a business coaching practice. The company focuses on small business and personal development training for entrepreneurs. In 2011, Sir Richard Branson invited Forleo to mentor young entrepreneurs at his Centre for Entrepreneurship. That year, Forleo launched MarieTV, a web television show. She spoke at the Life Is Beautiful conference in 2014.\n\nOprah Winfrey called Forleo \"a thought leader for the next generation.\" Forbes.com listed her website on its list of \"Top 100 Websites for Entrepreneurs.\"\n\nForleo is married to Josh Pais, an acting coach and actor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1661894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1661894", "title": "Marilynne Robinson", "text": "Marilynne Robinson\n\nMarilynne Summers Robinson (born 1943) is an American novelist and essayist. During her writing career Robinson has received numerous awards, including the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2005, the 2012 National Humanities Medal, and the 2016 Library of Congress Prize for American Fiction. In 2016 Robinson was named in \"Time\" magazine's list of 100 most influential people. Robinson began teaching at the Iowa Writers' Workshop in 1991 and retired in the spring of 2016.\n\nRobinson is best known for her novels \"Housekeeping\" (1980) and \"Gilead\" (2004). Her novels are noted for their thematic depiction of both rural life and faith. The subjects of her essays have spanned numerous topics, including the relationship between religion and science, nuclear pollution, John Calvin, and contemporary American politics.\n\nBorn on November 26, 1943, Robinson (née Summers) grew up in Sandpoint, Idaho. Her brother is the art historian David Summers, who dedicated his book \"Vision, Reflection, and Desire in Western Painting\" to her. She did her undergraduate work at Pembroke College, the former women's college at Brown University, receiving her Bachelor of Arts degree \"magna cum laude\" in 1966, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. At Brown, one of her teachers was noted postmodern novelist John Hawkes. She received her Doctor of Philosophy degree in English from the University of Washington in 1977.\n\nRobinson has written four highly acclaimed novels: \"Housekeeping\" (1980), \"Gilead\" (2004), \"Home\" (2008), and \"Lila\" (2014). \"Housekeeping\" was a finalist for the 1982 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction (US), \"Gilead\" was awarded the 2005 Pulitzer, and \"Home\" received the 2009 Orange Prize for Fiction (UK). \"Home\" is a companion to \"Gilead\" and focuses on the Boughton family during the same time period.\n\nShe is also the author of non-fiction works including \"\" (1989), \"The Death of Adam: Essays on Modern Thought\" (1998), \"Absence of Mind: The Dispelling of Inwardness from the Modern Myth of the Self\" (2010), \"When I Was a Child I Read Books: Essays\" (2012), \"The Givenness of Things: Essays\" (2015), and \"What Are We Doing Here?\" (2018). She has written articles, essays and reviews for \"Harper's\", \"The Paris Review\" and \"The New York Review of Books.\"\n\nShe has been writer-in-residence or visiting professor at many universities, including the University of Kent, Amherst, and the University of Massachusetts Amherst' MFA Program for Poets and Writers. In 2009, she held a Dwight H. Terry Lectureship at Yale University, giving a series of talks titled \"Absence of Mind: The Dispelling of Inwardness from the Modern Myth of the Self\". On April 19, 2010, she was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In May 2011, Robinson delivered the University of Oxford's annual Esmond Harmsworth Lecture in American Arts and Letters at the university's Rothermere American Institute.\n\nShe is currently the F. Wendell Miller Professor of English and Creative Writing at the Iowa Writers' Workshop and lives in Iowa City. She was the keynote speaker for the Workshop's 75th anniversary celebration in June 2011. She gave the 2012 Annual Buechner Lecture at The Buechner Institute at King University. In 2012, Brown University awarded Robinson the degree of Doctor of Literature \"honoris causa\". On February 18, 2013, she was the speaker at the Easter Convocation of the University of the South, Sewanee, Tennessee and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Literature \"honoris causa\". The College of the Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Amherst College, Skidmore College, the University of Oxford, and Yale University have also awarded Robinson honorary degrees. She has been elected a fellow of Mansfield College, Oxford.\n\nRobinson was raised as a Presbyterian and later became a Congregationalist, worshipping and sometimes preaching at the Congregational United Church of Christ in Iowa City. Her Congregationalism and her interest in the ideas of John Calvin have been important in her works, including \"Gilead\", which centers on the life and theological concerns of a fictional Congregationalist minister. In an interview with the \"Church Times\" in 2012, Robinson said: \"I think, if people actually read Calvin, rather than read Max Weber, he would be rebranded. He is a very respectable thinker.\"\n\nThe former Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, has described Robinson as \"one of the world's most compelling English-speaking novelists\", and said: \"Robinson's is a voice we urgently need to attend to in both Church and society here [in the UK].\" On January 24, 2013, Robinson was announced to be among the finalists for the 2013 Man Booker International Prize.\n\nOn June 26, 2015, President Barack Obama quoted Robinson in his eulogy for Clementa C. Pinckney of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. In speaking about \"an open heart\", Obama said: \"[w]hat a friend of mine, the writer Marilynne Robinson, calls 'that reservoir of goodness, beyond, and of another kind, that we are able to do each other in the ordinary cause of things.'\" In November 2015, \"The New York Review of Books\" published a two-part conversation between Obama and Robinson, covering topics in American history and the role of faith in society.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31835402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31835402", "title": "Miksike MentalMath", "text": "Miksike MentalMath\n\nMiksike MentalMath is a project for students to improve their mental calculation skill. The project consists of online JavaScript-based mental training and competing platform and competitions that are held on national and international levels. The project was developed by Kalev Põldsaar of Estonia.\n\nThe project is held in five countries: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine and Slovenia. Students from each must register to website pointing their schools to be able to take a part in competitions. The age groups are primary 1–3 grade(form), basic 4–6, boys 7–12, girls 7–12, boys 13 and over, girls 13 and over.\n\nTraining consists of various tasks: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, mixed tasks, gap-filling and comparison. Almost every task has three parts: natural numbers, integers, ratios (since 2010). More complex tasks are grouped into triathlons and pentathlons. The pentathlon consists of five tasks and 45 minutes are allowed to calculate them. Pentathlon is used at international championships.\n\nAt every task (addition, subtraction and so on) it is given 40 seconds every six levels at normal mode. Sprint mode covers 190 seconds for the student to answer five examples in a row correctly to level up. Higher levels are more difficult to solve, but they give many more points.\n\nAn international competition of Miksike MentalMath is held every year at the end of spring. Each year there compete more than one hundred students. The competition is held in a different country each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9952837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9952837", "title": "Music College", "text": "Music College\n\nMusic Colleges were introduced in 2004 as part of the Specialist Schools Programme in England. The system enables secondary schools to specialise in certain fields, in this case, music. Schools that successfully apply to the Specialist Schools Trust and become Music Colleges will receive extra funding from this joint private sector and government scheme. Music Colleges also act as a local point of reference for other schools and businesses in the area, with an emphasis on promoting music within the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "44348716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44348716", "title": "National Council for Educational Technology", "text": "National Council for Educational Technology\n\nThe National Council for Educational Technology provided advice and support for schools and colleges in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland on educational technology, in particular the use of computers for teaching and learning.\n\nThe Department for Education and Science merged the Council for Educational Technology and the MESU in 1989. The civil servant Noel Thompson, who promoted this change, became its first Chief Executive. It carried out evaluations of new technologies such as CD-ROMs, laptop computers and researched the effectiveness of different methods and techniques. It promoted the use of educational technology through publications, events, TV programmes.\n\nNCET was a charitable trust funded by government and formally a Non-Departmental Public Body. It had a Council (acting as the organisation's Board of Directors), whose Chairman and Chief Executive were responsible to the Secretaries of State of the Education Departments in England, Northern Ireland and Wales. Its work was outlined in an annual priorities letter from the Department and a senior civil servant and HMI sat on its Board.\n\nThe Chief Executive was employed by the NCET Council to run the organisation and deliver its programme of work.\n\nThe Chairmen were unpaid, except for their expenses, they chaired the Council and met with Ministers to agree the work of the organisation. \n\nWith the increased resource being provided to schools for educational technology the NCET took on a role of piloting and evaluating new technologies. NCET’s role was to provide appropriate evaluative evidence to them to ensure that this money was well spent. It also looked to help grow viable and appropriate commercial markets for IT products and through a number of NCET managed pilots and procurements it stimulated specific areas, for example, the introduction of CD-ROMs into schools. Similar initiatives of varying scales and technologies including portable computers for teachers, communications technologies, multimedia desktop computers, satellite technologies and integrated learning systems all contributed to keeping UK schools up to date with the changing pace of the technology during the 1990s.\n\nAs well as providing equipment and materials it was also part of NCET's brief to collate and disseminate research and case study evidence on the impact of IT on learning and educational institutions and to produce support materials for them. This included support for the Education Department's Superhighways Initiative from 1995-7 which ran 22 projects-supported by £12 million from commercial sponsors-that focus on the application of electronic communications in schools and colleges.\n\nManaging IT\nInspecting IT\n\nNCET-TV was a series of educational TV programmes aimed at helping the UK's teachers gain relevant IT skills. As part of BBC 2's The Learning Zone, the programmes will be transmitted on the first Wednesday of each month at 4.00am.\n\nDennis Stevenson was asked by Tony Blair in 1996 to look at the use of computers in schools. He set up an independent enquiry, a panel of experts who took evidence from a wide range of bodies and individuals and published his report in March 1997, just in time for the forthcoming election. Following the election Dennis Stevenson advised the UK Government that NCET could be a useful organisation, but it needed to be more closely aligned to government and should be restructured. The organisation was renamed the British Educational Communications Technology Agency (Becta), restructured and given the task of developing \"The National Grid for Learning\" (NGfL).\n"}
{"id": "5768163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5768163", "title": "National Curriculum and Textbook Board", "text": "National Curriculum and Textbook Board\n\nThe National Curriculum & Textbook Board (NCTB) () is an autonomous organisation under the Ministry of Education (MoE) in Bangladesh responsible for the development of curriculum, production and distribution of textbooks at primary, secondary and higher secondary levels.\nAll public schools of Bangladesh are under NCTB. Free board books are distributed among students every year between classes I-X. these books comprise most of the curriculum of all public Bangladeshi schools.There are two versions of the national curriculum. One is Bangla version and another one is the English version\n\n"}
{"id": "21494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21494", "title": "Nerd", "text": "Nerd\n\nA nerd is a person seen as overly intellectual, obsessive, introverted or lacking social skills. Such a person may spend inordinate amounts of time on unpopular, little known, or non-mainstream activities, which are generally either highly technical, abstract, or relating to topics of science fiction or fantasy, to the exclusion of more mainstream activities. Additionally, many so-called nerds are described as being shy, quirky, pedantic, and unattractive.\n\nOriginally derogatory, the term \"nerd\" was a stereotype, but as with other pejoratives, it has been reclaimed and redefined by some as a term of pride and group identity.\n\nThe first documented appearance of the word \"nerd\" is as the name of a creature in Dr. Seuss's book \"If I Ran the Zoo\" (1950), in which the narrator Gerald McGrew claims that he would collect \"a Nerkle, a Nerd, and a Seersucker too\" for his imaginary zoo. The slang meaning of the term dates to 1951. That year, \"Newsweek\" magazine reported on its popular use as a synonym for \"drip\" or \"square\" in Detroit, Michigan. By the early 1960s, usage of the term had spread throughout the United States, and even as far as Scotland. At some point, the word took on connotations of bookishness and social ineptitude.\n\nAn alternate spelling, as \"nurd\" or \"gnurd\", also began to appear in the mid-1960s or early 1970s. Author Philip K. Dick claimed to have coined the \"nurd\" spelling in 1973, but its first recorded use appeared in a 1965 student publication at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI). Oral tradition there holds that the word is derived from \"knurd\" (\"drunk\" spelled backward), which was used to describe people who studied rather than partied. The term \"gnurd \" (spelled with the \"g\") was in use at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) by 1965. The term \"nurd\" was also in use at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as early as 1971.\n\nAccording to \"Online Etymology Dictionary\", the word is an alteration of the 1940s term \"nert\" (meaning \"stupid or crazy person\"), which is itself an alteration of \"nut\" (nutcase).\n\nThe term was popularized in the 1970s by its heavy use in the sitcom \"Happy Days\".\n\nBecause of the nerd stereotype, many smart people are often thought of as nerdy. This belief can be harmful, as it can cause high-school students to \"switch off their lights\" out of fear of being branded as a nerd, and cause otherwise appealing people to be considered nerdy simply for their intellect. It was once thought that intellectuals were nerdy because they were envied. However, Paul Graham stated in his essay, \"Why Nerds are Unpopular\", that intellect is neutral, meaning that you are neither loved nor despised for it. He also states that it is only the correlation that makes smart teens automatically seem nerdy, and that a nerd is someone that is not socially adept enough. Additionally, he says that the reason why many smart kids are unpopular is that they \"don't have time for the activities required for popularity.\"\nStereotypical nerd appearance, often lampooned in caricatures, can include very large glasses, braces, buck teeth, severe acne and pants worn high at the waist. Following suit of popular use in emoticons, Unicode released in 2015 its \"Nerd Face\" character, featuring some of those stereotypes: 🤓 (code point U+1F913). In the media, many nerds are males, portrayed as being physically unfit, either overweight or skinny due to lack of physical exercise. It has been suggested by some, such as linguist Mary Bucholtz, that being a nerd may be a state of being \"hyperwhite\" and rejecting African-American culture and slang that \"cool\" white children use. However, after the \"Revenge of the Nerds\" movie franchise (with multicultural nerds), and the introduction of the Steve Urkel character on the television series \"Family Matters\", nerds have been seen in all races and colors as well as more recently being a frequent young Asian or Indian male stereotype in North America. Portrayal of \"nerd girls\", in films such as \"She's Out of Control\", \"Welcome to the Dollhouse\" and \"She's All That\" depicts that smart but nerdy women might suffer later in life if they do not focus on improving their physical attractiveness.\n\nIn the United States, a 2010 study published in the \"Journal of International and Intercultural Communication\" indicated that Asian Americans are perceived as most likely to be nerds, followed by White Americans, while non-White Hispanics and Black Americans were perceived as least likely to be nerds. These stereotypes stem from concepts of Orientalism and Primitivism, as discussed in Ron Eglash's essay \"Race, Sex, and Nerds\": \"From Black Geeks to Asian American Hipsters\".\n\nSome of the stereotypical behaviors associated with the \"nerd\" stereotype have correlations with the symptoms of Asperger's Syndrome or other autism-spectrum disorders.\n\nThe rise of Silicon Valley and the American computer industry at large has allowed many so-called nerdy people to accumulate large fortunes. Many stereotypically nerdy interests, such as superhero and science fiction works, are now popular culture hits. Some measures of nerdiness are now allegedly considered desirable, as, to some, it suggests a person who is intelligent, respectful, interesting, and able to earn a large salary. Stereotypical nerd qualities are evolving, going from awkwardness and social ostracism to an allegedly more widespread acceptance and sometimes even celebration of their differences.\n\nJohannes Grenzfurthner, researcher, self-proclaimed nerd and director of nerd documentary \"Traceroute\", reflects on the emergence of nerds and nerd culture:\nIn the 1984 film \"Revenge of the Nerds\" Robert Carradine worked to embody the nerd stereotype; in doing so, he helped create a definitive image of nerds. Additionally, the storyline presaged, and may have helped inspire, the \"nerd pride\" that emerged in the 1990s. \"American Splendor\" regular Toby Radloff claims this was the movie that inspired him to become \"The Genuine Nerd from Cleveland, Ohio.\" In the \"American Splendor\" film, Toby's friend, \"American Splendor\" author Harvey Pekar, was less receptive to the movie, believing it to be hopelessly idealistic, explaining that Toby, an adult low income file clerk, had nothing in common with the middle class kids in the film who would eventually attain college degrees, success, and cease being perceived as nerds. Many, however, seem to share Radloff's view, as \"nerd pride\" has become more widespread in the years since. MIT professor Gerald Sussman, for example, seeks to instill pride in nerds:\nThe popular computer-related news website Slashdot uses the tagline \"News for nerds. Stuff that matters.\" The Charles J. Sykes quote \"Be nice to nerds. Chances are you'll end up working for one\" has been popularized on the Internet and incorrectly attributed to Bill Gates. In Spain, Nerd Pride Day has been observed on May 25 since 2006, the same day as Towel Day, another somewhat nerdy holiday.<ref name=\"geek/nerd\"></ref> The date was picked as it is the anniversary of the release of \"\".\n\nAn episode from the animated series \"Freakazoid\", titled \"Nerdator\", includes the use of nerds to power the mind of a Predator-like enemy. Towards the middle of the show, he gave this speech. :\n\nThe Danish reality TV show \"FC Zulu\", known in the internationally franchised format as \"FC Nerds\", established a format wherein a team of nerds, after two or three months of training, competes with a professional soccer team.\n\nSome commentators consider that the word is devalued when applied to people who adopt a sub-cultural pattern of behaviour, rather than being reserved for people with a marked ability.\n\nAlthough originally being predominately an American stereotype, Nerd culture has grown across the globe and is now more acceptable and common than ever. Australian events such as Oz Comic-Con (a large comic book and Cosplay convention, similar to San Diego Comic-Con International) and Supernova, are incredibly popular events among the culture of people who identify themselves as nerds. In 2016, Oz Comic-Con in Perth saw almost 20,000 cos-players and comic book fans meet to celebrate the event, hence being named a \"professionally organised Woodstock for geeks\".\n\nIndividuals who are labeled as \"nerds\" are often the target of bullying due to a range of reasons that may include physical appearance or social background. Paul Graham has suggested that the reason nerds are frequently singled out for bullying is their indifference to popularity or social context, in the face of a youth culture that views popularity as paramount. However, research findings suggest that bullies are often as socially inept as their academically better-performing victims, and that popularity fails to confer protection from bullying. Other commentators have pointed out that pervasive harassment of intellectually-oriented youth began only in the mid-twentieth century and some have suggested that its cause involves jealousy over future employment opportunities and earning potential.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48208111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48208111", "title": "Paint Nite", "text": "Paint Nite\n\nPaint Nite is a company in the paint and sip industry, with headquarters in Somerville, Massachusetts. Founded in 2012, Paint Nite offers live, nightly painting events accompanied by wine or cocktails. Events are held in local bars and restaurants. Local artists, licensed as Paint Nite hosts, guide guests step-by-step as they create a personalized painting. Events typically last two hours and guests take home their artwork.\n\nPaint Nite was founded in 2012 by Daniel Hermann and Sean McGrail. Daniel Hermann was born in Boston and grew up in Newton, Massachusetts. He started his first business at 21. He still owns this laundry pick-up delivery service, which operates in six states. He attended the University of Wisconsin and Babson College for his MBA.\nSean McGrail attended George Washington University from 1990–1994 where he received a BA in psychology, marketing and fine arts. He previously has worked for PARTNERS+simons and Genzyme Biosurgery.\n\nThe idea of Paint Nite occurred to the duo when they attended a birthday party that served beer and wine in a painting studio. They concluded that having painting events in a local bar instead of a studio would reduce overhead costs. Using a licensing model which enabled local artists to work the painting events, Hermann and McGrail founded Paint Nite with $7,000.\n\nPaint Nite has raised $13 million in equity funding. The funding came from Highland Capital Partners. Since 2012, Paint Nite and the paint and sip industry in general have grown rapidly. The company now generates $50 million in annual revenue. In August 2015 the company announced two million tickets sold worldwide.\n\nPaint Nite is self-financed. Its customers purchase tickets to the events in advance. The upfront cash can be used to further grow the business and purchase supplies based on sales. Hermann noted this is why the company has grown rapidly.\n\nPaint Nite is based on a licensing model. Licensees and the artists that host the painting events use the Paint Nite brand to run their business. This differs from the franchise model where income and upfront costs are required. The venue that hosts the event generates income from alcohol sales. \nPaint Nite’s customer base is 90 percent female, between the ages of 21 and 45. McGrail noted that social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram have been key components in Paint Nite’s success. People tagging themselves in social media have accounted for about 35 percent of ticket sales.\n\nIn 2014, for Paint Nite’s two-year anniversary New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski, also known as “Gronk,” attended a Paint Nite event held at Ned Devine’s Irish Pub in Boston. Gronkowski’s painting was auctioned off for the National Brain Tumor Society.\n\nPaint Nite made its nationwide television debut in September 2014 when cast mates from BRAVO TV’s reality show, \"The Singles Project\" attended a Paint Nite event.\n\nOn July 2015, book author and freelance journalist Joel Stein documented his experience at a Paint Nite event in a feature article written for \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", where Stein gave credit to Paint Nite for “Saving the American Bar”.\n\n"}
{"id": "4518018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4518018", "title": "Product Development and Systems Engineering Consortium", "text": "Product Development and Systems Engineering Consortium\n\nThe Product Development and Systems Engineering Consortium \"(PDSEC)\" is a joint industry/academic research group based at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan. The PDSEC focuses on collaborative, globally oriented product development and systems engineering for the automotive industry. \nFounded in 2005, the PDSEC has sponsored several presentations and workshops with contributors from General Motors, Ford Motor Company, PTC and other universities. The PDSEC sponsors four research tracks focused on the following areas:\n\nPDSEC Organizational Structure\n\n"}
{"id": "37685680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37685680", "title": "Sagan Planet Walk", "text": "Sagan Planet Walk\n\nThe Sciencenter's Sagan Planet Walk is a walkable scale model of the Solar System, located in Ithaca, New York. The model scales the entire Solar System—both planet size and distances between them—down to one five billionth of its actual size. Consisting of eleven obelisks situated along a path through the streets of downtown Ithaca, the Planet Walk leads from the Sun at Center Ithaca to Pluto at the Ithaca Sciencenter. \n\nThe exhibition was originally created in 1997 in memory of Ithaca resident and Cornell Professor Carl Sagan. In 2012, the model was expanded to include a representation of Alpha Centauri, the Sun's closest neighboring star, at the ‘Imiloa Astronomy Center at the University of Hawaii. The addition of the Alpha Centauri Obelisk made it the world's largest exhibition.\n\nIn 2014, the inner planets and Sun were removed as part of extensive construction being done to the Ithaca Commons, but have since been replaced. In 2015, a grant was approved to further expand the exhibition by installing an exoplanet Kepler-37d station on the Moon away.\n\nThe scaled size of the Sun is given by a diameter circular frame repeated at the top of each tall obelisk. Centered within each sun-sized frame, the proportional size of each planet is represented by a small sphere affixed in a glass window. All of the original planet locations were chosen not only for accuracy to scale but also to highlight local landmarks and public spaces within Ithaca. However, since the original installation of the Planet Walk the public library has moved to a new location, leaving Saturn no longer attached to a local landmark. Additionally, as of 2016-2017, the original planets in plexiglass at each station have been replaced by simple yellow disks with the planet simply represented by a relatively-sized hole. Some attendant moons are now represented by tiny holes in the disks.\n\nThe Sun Obelisk is located in the center of the Ithaca Commons, a pedestrian shopping area in the heart of downtown Ithaca. The round window representing the size of the Sun at this station is roughly the size of a basketball and, in this obelisk only, contains no glass. All the subsequent obelisks in the Solar system model have Sun-sized glass windows containing their respective planets for the sake of comparison.\n\nThe obelisks for the four inner planets are all contained within the commons area stretching north towards Seneca Street. Mercury is situated to scale about away from the Sun, Venus another away, Earth another away, and Mars another away. This keeps the four inner planets within eyesight of the Sun, yet the representations of each planet appear quite small within their glass windows, and can even be somewhat hard to see. The contrast between the size of the Sun and the size of the inner planets coupled with the visible distance between them illustrate the vastness and emptiness of space.\n\nOnce leaving the inner planets, a visitor to the Planet Walk turns west along Seneca Street to continue towards Jupiter. Between Mars and Jupiter lies the asteroid belt. The obelisk representing the asteroid belt was added several years after the initial installation. Its display contains the only public, unguarded meteorite in the world.\n\nThe Jupiter Obelisk sits at the corner of Seneca and Cayuga streets, outside the downtown Dewitt Mall, and not far from the famed Moosewood Restaurant. The model of Jupiter within the glass window is the first planet representation on the walk that is easily visible, demonstrating how much bigger than the inner planets it is.\n\nTo reach the Saturn Obelisk, visitors turn north and continue along Cayuga street. At the corner of Cayuga and Court street, Saturn's obelisk sits outside the former location of the Tompkins County Public Library. The rings of Saturn are clearly visible within the circular window.\n\nVisitors continue northward along Cayuga street from Saturn, reaching the obelisk for Uranus just across Cascadilla Creek at the entrance to Thompson Park.\n\nFrom Uranus, visitors follow Willow Avenue northwest and cross the Carl Sagan bridge at Adams street to reach the Neptune Obelisk. The Carl Sagan Bridge, built in 2000, features nine circular windows adorned with the signs of the nine planets. The obelisk for Neptune is located just across the bridge in Conley Park.\n\nThe Planet Walk was conceived and built prior to Pluto losing its planetary status in 2006, and the model includes the Pluto Obelisk, which is located just outside the Sciencenter on First street.\n\nThe model was expanded in 2012 to include Alpha Centauri, the star closest to the Sun. The Alpha Centauri Obelisk is exhibited at the ‘‘Imiloa Astronomy Center of Hawai‘i at the University of Hawaii in Hilo, Hawaii. This extension made the Sagan Planet Walk the world's largest exhibition.\n\nTelevision host and former student of Carl Sagan, Bill Nye, narrated a podcast tour of the Planet Walk in 2006 which can be accessed free by calling 703.637.6237 as you walk through the scale-model representation of the Solar System.\n\n\nThe models of the Solar System, in order:\nThe Sagan Planet Walk has inspired the creation of other scale-model Solar Systems in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "677000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=677000", "title": "Seminar", "text": "Seminar\n\nA seminar is a form of academic instruction, either at an academic institution or offered by a commercial or professional organization. It has the function of bringing together small groups for recurring meetings, focusing each time on some particular subject, in which everyone present is requested to participate. This is often accomplished through an ongoing Socratic dialogue with a seminar leader or instructor, or through a more formal presentation of research. It is essentially a place where assigned readings are discussed, questions can be raised and debates can be conducted.\n\nThe word \"seminar\" is derived from the Latin word \"seminarium\", meaning \"seed plot\".\n\nAt North American universities, the term \"seminar\" refers to a course of intense study relating to the student's major. Seminars typically have significantly fewer students per professor than normal courses, and are generally more specific in topic of study. Seminars can revolve around term papers, exams, presentations, and several other assignments. Seminars are almost always required for university graduation. Normally, participants must not be beginners in the field under discussion at US and Canadian universities. Seminar classes are generally reserved for upper-class students, although at UK and Australian universities seminars are often used for all years. The idea behind the seminar system is to familiarize students more extensively with the methodology of their chosen subject and also to allow them to interact with examples of the practical problems that always occur during research work.\n\nIn some European universities, a \"seminar\" may be a large lecture course, especially when conducted by a renowned thinker (regardless of the size of the audience or the scope of student participation in discussion). Some non-English speaking countries in Europe use the word \"seminar\" (e.g. German \"Seminar\", Slovenian \"seminar\", Polish \"seminarium\") to refer to a university class that includes a term paper or project, as opposed to a lecture class (e.g. German \"Vorlesung\", Slovenian \"predavanje\", Polish \"wykład\"). This does not correspond to English use of the term. In some academic institutions, typically in scientific fields, the term \"preceptorial\" is used interchangeably with \"seminar\".\n\nThe term \"seminar\" is also used to describe a research talk, often given by a visiting researcher and primarily attended by academics, research staff, and postgraduate students. Seminars often occur in regular series, but each seminar is typically given by a different speaker, on a topic of that speaker's choosing. Such seminars are not usually a part of a course of study and are therefore not usually associated with any assessment or credit. The term \"colloquium\" is often used interchangeably with seminar in this sense.\n\n"}
{"id": "32312176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32312176", "title": "Shared lives", "text": "Shared lives\n\nShared Lives, which is also known as Adult Placement in some areas, is a UK form of support and accommodation for adults with need wherein approved individuals or families open their lives to aid older or disabled persons.\n\nOver 10,000 Shared Lives carers in the UK provided care to people with a wide range of disabilities, illnesses and support needs, including people with learning disabilities, people with mental health problems, older people, care leavers (government wards aging out of care), disabled children becoming young adults, parents with learning disabilities and their children, and ex-offenders. Shared Lives carers are recruited, trained, approved, monitored and paid by one of the UK’s 150 regulated Shared Lives schemes.\n\nThe goal of Shared Lives is to match the individuals in need of service with others who will be compatible to them to act as 'extended family'. While generally the individual in need of support will move into the home of the carer, sometimes service is provided in their own homes, as day support, as breaks for unpaid family carers, as home from hospital care and as a stepping stone for someone who wants to get their own place.\n\nAccording to a Care Quality Commission report for 2009-2010, more than 10,788 people in England used Shared Lives. While the Care Quality Commission showed minor increases from the prior year, Information Centre statistics collated through different methodology showed a 36% increase in the same period. 13% of users were over 65, with the vast majority (76%) consisting of persons between 18 and 64 with learning disability. Mental health problems (7%) and physical disabilities (3%) were less represented.\n\nUse of Shared Lives is also increasing in Wales, with a 30% rise to 303 households in 2008-2009, while use in Scotland doubled between 2006 and 2009.\n\nShared Lives Schemes in the UK are regulated under:\n\nShared Lives Plus (www.sharedlivesplus.org.uk) is the UK network for family-based and small-scale ways of supporting adults to live independently and to contribute to their families and communities. Its members are Shared Lives carers and workers, Homeshare programmes and micro-enterprises, which include a range of very small community-based services that share adult placement values and ethos.\n\nNHS England announced the allocation of £1.75 million to support to 6 to 10 Clinical commissioning groups to develop Shared Lives schemes which:\n\n\nShared Lives Plus is to support this programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40130922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40130922", "title": "Siegfried Schnabl", "text": "Siegfried Schnabl\n\nSiegfried Schnabl (27 February 1927 - 4 August 2015) was a German sexologist and psychotherapist who contributed to the work of sex education in East Germany and other nations. He was born in Limbach, Sachsen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36684692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36684692", "title": "Slovak Fulbright Commission", "text": "Slovak Fulbright Commission\n\nThe Slovak Fulbright Commission was created in 1994 by a treaty between the governments of the United States and Slovakia. It is a non-profit organization based in Bratislava, Slovakia. The Fulbright Commission aims to foster mutual cultural understanding through educational exchange between the United States and the Slovak Republic. To do this, Fulbright helps students, scholars and professionals interested in studying abroad in the United States or Slovakia through its scholarship programs, fellowship programs, and its EducationUSA advising center. Since the formation of the Commission, over 180 American students and scholars have studied in Slovakia while over 220 Slovak students and scholars have studied in the United States.\n\nThe Slovak Fulbright Commission offers many opportunities for study, research and English Teaching for U.S. students in Slovakia.\n\nThe Fulbright U.S. Student Program offers fellowships for U.S. graduating college seniors, graduate students, young professionals, and artists to study abroad for one academic year. As of the 2012-2013 academic year, only two grants per year are available under this program. In order to receive full consideration for a fellowship, students must have knowledge of the Slovak language commensurate with their proposed project, a letter of affiliation from a Slovak host institution, and a completed application including three letters of recommendation.\n\nThe Fulbright ETA Program, an element of the Fulbright U.S. Student Program, places U.S. students as English teaching assistants in schools or universities overseas, thus improving foreign students’ English language abilities and knowledge of the United States while increasing their own language skills and knowledge of the host country. ETAs may also pursue individual study/research plans in addition to their teaching responsibilities. For the 2012-2013 application cycle, 19 applications were received for 8 ETA positions.\n\nThe Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program sends American scholars and professionals abroad to lecture and/or conduct research in a wide variety of academic and professional fields.\n\nThere are many opportunities available for Slovak students and scholars within the United States. For students, \nThe Fulbright Foreign Student Program enables graduate students, young professionals, and artists from abroad to research and study in the United States for one year or longer. For scholars, available programs include \nthe Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program, the Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence Program (SIR) and the Fulbright European Union Scholar-in-Residence (EUSIR) Program.\n\nThe Slovak Fulbright Commission also hosts an EducationUSA Advising Center at its location in central Bratislava. EducationUSA is a global network of more than 400 advising centers supported by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the U.S. Department of State. In Bratislava, the center provides individual admissions and test preparation consulting for students, including free library and computer access. The advising center also organizes presentations and seminars on study opportunities in the U.S. for Slovak high school and university students as well as representatives of Slovak academia.\n"}
{"id": "21176983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21176983", "title": "Stella Baruk", "text": "Stella Baruk\n\nStella Baruk (born 1932 in Yazd, Iran) is an influential Iranian-born French teacher, mathematician, author and educationalist. Since the 1970s she has been a key innovator in the teaching of mathematics in French schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "10154629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10154629", "title": "Susan Daitch", "text": "Susan Daitch\n\nSusan Daitch is an American short story writer, and novelist.\n\nSusan Daitch graduated from Barnard College. Her work has appeared in \"Guernica\", \"Bomb\", \"Pacific Review,\" \"The Barcelona Review,\" \"Fault Magazine,\" \"Rain Taxi,\" and \"Tablet.\"\n\nShe taught at Barnard College, Columbia University, and the Iowa Writers’ Workshop.\nShe teaches at Hunter College.\n\nShe was a 2012 New York Foundation for the Arts Fellow.\n\nShe is a supporter of Women for Afghan Women.\nShe lives in Brooklyn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41474974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41474974", "title": "Thulir", "text": "Thulir\n\nThulir is an Indian monthly children's science magazine published in Tamil by the Tamil Nadu Science Forum without a break since 1987. Its purpose is to bring science to school children, especially in rural areas. The headquarters of the monthly is in Chennai. \"Thulir\" is sustained by the support of children and teachers.\n"}
{"id": "14301764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14301764", "title": "Tiv Ol", "text": "Tiv Ol\n\nTiv Ol was a Cambodian teacher and communist politician. Tiv Ol joined the Khmer People's Revolutionary Party (which later evolved into the Workers Party of Kampuchea/Communist Party of Kampuchea) in autumn 1959. \n\nTiv Ol was the leading figure in a grouping of radical teachers on Phnom Penh. On March 8, 1963, Tiv Ol was included in the list of 34 'subversive' leftists, published by Prince Sihanouk. During the period of 1965-1967 Tiv Ol also a prominent member of the Khmer-Chinese Friendship Association.\n\nIn 1967, the Tiv Ol-led group of leftist teachers began to shift to the countryside, to escape state repression. Tiv Ol himself left the capital in November 1967, and made his way to the clandestine CPK Party Centre. Vorn Vet later claimed to have been the organizer of this exodus.\n\nAround 1970, Tiv Ol was appointed the chief of the CPK party organization in Kratie. After communist forces took control over the area, Tiv Ol organized the re-opening of the local school and hospital as well as initiating some agrarian reforms.\n\nTiv Ol, like others in the CPK Eastern Zone, represented a sector within the party which held ambivalent views on the relation between Vietnamese and Cambodian communists. In 1973 Tiv Ol expressed that Vietnam was an ally of the Cambodian liberation, but an unreliable ally. In 1974 Tiv Ol visited Hanoi. During his stay in Hanoi, he wrote a poem saluting Indochinese unity. The poem was published in a Vietnamese magazine. It is said that the publication had angered Pol Pot.\n\nIn 1977 Tiv Ol fell victim of a purge of the core of the Khmer-Chinese Friendship Association. He was arrested on June 6, and later executed.\n\nTiv Ol was married to Leng Sim Hak, a fellow teacher.\n"}
{"id": "44940234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44940234", "title": "University Grants Commission Act, 1956", "text": "University Grants Commission Act, 1956\n\nThe University Grants Commission Act, 1956 is an Act of the Parliament of India. The Act is sometimes referred to as \"the UGC Act\".\n"}
{"id": "25855186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855186", "title": "Vasile Stroescu", "text": "Vasile Stroescu\n\nVasile Vasilievici Stroescu (, \"Vasily Vasilyevich Stroesko\"; November 11, 1845 – April 13, 1926), also known as Vasile de Stroesco, Basile Stroesco, or Vasile Stroiescu, was a Bessarabian and Romanian politician, landowner, and philanthropist. One of the proponents and sponsors of Romanian nationalism in Russia's Bessarabia Governorate, as well as among the Romanian communities of Austria-Hungary, he was also a champion of self-help and of cooperative farming. He inherited or purchased large estates, progressively dividing them among local peasants, while setting up local schools and churches for their use. An erudite and traveler, he abandoned his career in law to focus on his agricultural projects and cultural activism. For the latter work, he became an honorary member of the Romanian Academy.\n\nHaving backed the nationalist papers \"Basarabia\" and \"Cuvânt Moldovenesc\", Stroescu was drawn into the more elitist cell of the nationalist movement, centered on the parts of the \"zemstva\" and gentry assembly. He was thus honorary president of the National Moldavian Party shortly after the February Revolution but, with Vladimir Hertza, drifted away from the core of the movement to set up his own aristocratic branch. He became an absentee member of \"Sfatul Țării\" during the existence of a Moldavian Democratic Republic and its union with Romania. In 1919–1920, he served in the Assembly of Deputies, and was for a few weeks its \"de facto\" President. Rallying with the Bessarabian Peasants' Party, Stroescu became critical of the unification process, decrying government abuses in Bessarabia, and also objected to the 1920s land reform. He died shortly after in Bucharest, having also served in the Senate, and was granted a state funeral.\n\nThe Stroescus were a family of ethnic Romanian aristocrats and shepherds from Moldavia: the family patriarch Ioan Stroescu had the Moldavian boyar title of \"jitnicer\" in the late 17th century. His grandson, Gavriil, was a \"șătrar\"; Ienache, Gavriil's son, reverted to pastoralism, and owned ranches in Iași County. His own two sons Vasile (1795–1875) and Ioan moved between Moldavia and Bessarabia, which, following the 1812 Treaty of Bucharest, had been absorbed into the Russian Empire. Vasile owned ten estates on either side of the border, split between Iași and Hotin counties. The Stroescus were all inducted into Russian nobility in 1828 and granted arms in 1867. From his marriage to Profira Manoil Guțu (1808–1856), Vasile Sr had three sons—Mihail (1836–1889), Gheorghe (1840–1922), Vasile Jr. The couple also had four daughters, married off to aristocrats of Russian, Greek, or Polish Bessarabian descent: Ana Kazimir, Maria Druganov, Elena Martos, and Ecaterina Șumanski. The latter's husband was Clemente Șumanski, Mayor of Kishinev in the 1870s.\n\nVasile Jr was born on November 11, 1845, in Trinca, a Hotin County village (now in Edineț District, Moldova). He attended the Bessarabian Lyceum of Kishinev, then the school of Kamenets-Podolskiy and Odessa's Richelieu Lyceum. Later, he studied law at the universities of Moscow, Saint Petersburg, and Berlin. The latter awarded him a doctorate of law. An erudite, Stroiescu reportedly spoke all Slavic languages, German, French, English and Italian, in addition to his native Romanian. Upon graduation, he traveled throughout Europe, including in the Kingdom of Romania, and also visited the Western colonies in Africa. This was a passion shared by his older brother Mihail, who was once shipwrecked in the Pacific, and later wrote memoirs of his adventures.\n\nVasile was appointed a judge at the Hotin city tribunal in 1867, becoming colleagues with writer Alexandru Hâjdeu. Following his father's death, he withdrew from the legal profession altogether, making Brînzeni his main residence. There, he began his trade as a gentleman farmer, peasant educator, and amateur agronomist, while maintaining a lively interest in historical research. After receiving his inheritance, Stroescu owned 9,000 hectares (22,000 acres), but later came to purchase 16,000 more hectares (some 4,000 acres) of land, with several manors, ranches, and stables, making him one of the richest people in the region.\n\nMany of his properties he auctioned off, using the money to finance his philanthropy, or divided between the peasant \"obshchiny\", with Stroescu as a pioneer of cooperative farming and cooperative forestry. He personally verified his plowmen's techniques and corrected their mistakes. As noted by Brînzeni native Ion Buzdugan, he was \"modest and balanced\", but also \"ruthless with those who squandered his wealth.\" Fellow activist Pan Halippa noted that Stroescu was a \"real democrat\" and \"true Christian\", who \"never married and lived modestly.\" \"This man\", Halippa claims, \"used his great managerial competence to please those living on his estate. He [...] helped everyone own a proper home grange, acting a statesman ought to. [...] If only those ministers who call themselves democrats and socialists could know how the great Bessarabian Romanian Vasile Stroescu used to live!\" By 1918, Stroescu only had some 8,000 hectares left to his name, spread about between Trinca, Bădragii Vechi, Druța and Zăbriceni.\n\nAs noted by historian Iurie Colesnic, Stroescu and Nicolae Ștefan Casso stood among those boyars who reverted Russification or Moldovenism, \"neutralizing the influence\" of pro-imperial adversaries such as Alexander N. Krupensky. Stroescu built of refurbished several schools in Bessarabia, founded hospitals in his native village and in Brătușeni, and became \"ktitor\" of Bessarabian Orthodox churches in Trinca, Pociumbăuți, Șofrîncani, and Zăicani. In 1899, he offered to sponsor state schools, provided that they be allowed to teach classes in Romanian. This proposal was simply disregarded by government. With the liberalization made possible by the Revolution of 1905, Stroescu began participating in conspiratorial meetings of the Romanian elite in Kishinev, exchanging ideas with Halippa, Nicolae Alexandri, Ion Inculeț, Nicolae Bivol, Alexis Nour, Ion Pelivan, and Paul Gore, where they first discussed the prospect of Romania and Bessarabia uniting. As Pelivan notes, he and Emanuil Gavriliță tried to persuade Stroescu to finance a magazine for the Romanian-speaking populace, but the landowner \"seemed rather skeptical\". However, in 1906 he sponsored Halippa in setting up a democratic-and-nationalist newspaper, \"Basarabia\", eventually shut down by the Russian authorities in March 1907.\n\nBy 1910, Stroescu had expatriated himself to Switzerland, and was living in Davos Platz. His charity work continued to have a profound effect among the Romanian communities of Transylvania, in Austria-Hungary, where Stroescu notably founded the boarding house serving the Diocese of Arad, as well as \"tens of churches, schools and hospitals\". Although a patron of Romanian Orthodoxy, he was critical of the church's claim to have preserved Romanian identity, noting that its nationalist discourse was a recent \"invention of the parsons, to emphasize their own merits\". He saw Orthodoxy as equal to its rival Romanian Greek-Catholic Church, arguing that \"a religious difference cannot divide us\", since \"Romanians of both religions behave one to the other as true Christians and therefore as brethren\". As such, in 1910 Stroescu allied himself with the Greek Catholics to tackle the effects of Magyarization, donating 100,000 Kronen to the cultural fund in Blaj.\n\nOther estimates suggest that his sponsorship of schools, including Orthodox ones, ran at 950,000 Kronen in 1913—500,000 of these were channeled through Partenie Cosma, and 200,000 more through the Archbishopric of Sibiu, while 100,000 went to the creation of a girls' school in Arad. His contribution also included a Stroescu Fund at ASTRA Society and various payments to the Cultural League for the Unity of All Romanians. In Romanian-ruled Western Moldavia, he fitted primary schools from a special fund, which ran at 200,000 lei, and, in 1906–1908, put up 300,000 lei for the building of a Romanian People's Salvation Cathedral.\nIn May 1910, as recognition of his activities, and in particular for his work with the Blaj foundations, Stroescu was elected an honorary member of the Romanian Academy. This appointment left him indifferent, as he considered his deeds \"only natural\". He declared himself \"at my country's disposal, with all this mind God gave me, from all my heart and with my entire wealth\". According to Halippa and Pelivan, his focus fell on Transylvania and elsewhere only because censorship and repression prevented him from openly financing nationalism in his native province. Another account is that he was felt called into action by the anti-Magyarization writings of Ioan Slavici. Moreover, his philanthropic activity was preceded by that of his late brother Mihail, who, as early as 1882, had set up ten model schools in Romania-proper, after having failed to create a Romanian studies department at Novorossiya University. Also noted for founding a school in Stolniceni, Mihail had set up a rural hospital at Bekir, eventually splitting his wealth between ASTRA, the Romanian vocational schools of Brașov, and his tenant farmers.\n\nThe family's renewed contributions have led various authors to refer to Vasile as Transylvania or Bessarabia's \"Maecenas\". Transylvanians such as Justinian Teculescu dedicated him verse of praise; others believed that he was not a real man, but a fictional character created by the Romanian state to hide its direct involvement in Austro-Hungarian affairs. Stroescu also sponsored individual Bessarabians to pursue their education abroad, as he did with physician and fellow Romanian nationalist Elena Alistar, and founded an eponymous Stroescu Help Club for the Romanian Americans of Cleveland. Between June 1910 and August 1911, he paid for Nour to publish a Russian-language paper, \"Bessarabets\", and, after 1913, financed the newspaper \"Cuvânt Moldovenesc\", published by Halippa and Alexandri, also helping peasants with their subscriptions.\n\nBy 1912, Stroescu was living in Lausanne, but still appeared incognito to celebrate the golden jubilee of Petru Maior Society in Budapest. However, he was expressing his disenchantment with his Transylvanian colleagues. His letters to his fund's beneficiaries often included \"drastic reprimands.\" In early 1913, he published a piece in the newspaper \"Românul\" of Arad, attacking Romanian banks for paying dividends higher than 5%, and their clients for accepting them; the difference, he argued, could go toward sponsoring culture. Responding to this \"judicious and unusually categorical\" critique, the economist Ion Mateiu suggested that the reduction demanded by Stroescu was needlessly abrupt. Stroescu, who donated 50,000 Kronen to settling disputes between ASTRA and the popular banks, and then to the creation of alternative credit unions, found sympathy with the writing team at \"Luceafărul\", which basked in his critique of \"our petty bourgeoisie [and] its plutocratic ideals\". Through ASTRA, he also distributed his brochure \"Statutele și îndrumările pentru băncile poporale\" (\"Statutes and Guiding for the People's Banks\"). The Bihar County bankers objected to such initiatives, seeing Stroescu as an unfair competitor to their business.\n\nBy 1914, Stroescu's relations with the Austro-Hungarian authorities were noticeably strained. His sponsoring of a Christmas 1913 folk party in Beiuș almost ended with the prosecution of its organizer, Nicolae Coroiu. The outbreak of World War I caught Stroescu on the Russian side, ending all his work in Transylvania; the government of István Tisza listed him as a \"public menace\", suspected of wanting to incite a Romanian rebellion in Transylvania. He returned to Odessa in 1914, and managed to persuade the authorities to release his protegée Alistar, who had been arrested for sedition. In late 1916, Romania entered the war, siding with Russia against Austria-Hungary and the other Central Powers. Following the February Revolution, which inaugurated an episode of social rebellion and national emancipation throughout Russia, the Stroescus were targeted by Russian revolutionaries. Gheorghe's former manor in Bălceana was ransacked by deserters from the Romanian Front, who burned down his manuscripts, and so were other country homes owned by the family. The Brânzeni estate was spared: the peasants there, having already set up a network for trafficking Romanian books into Bessarabia, also formed a self-defense unit which protected their shared wealth.\n\nVasile was at Soroca, where he signed a manifesto for Bessarabian self-determination, officially backed by the \"zemstvo\" and the gentry assembly. He then took part in the establishment of Bessarabia's own National Moldavian Party (PNM), formed on . This came only after protracted negotiations with a Transylvanian refugee, Onisifor Ghibu, who was perplexed that Bessarabians \"hardly understood the importance of having a political party [...] that would militate for the national cause.\" Stroescu held on to an apolitical stance, replying that \"he was ready to give as much as he had, but only for cultural enterprises, because politics, he said, was a dirty activity.\" At Kishinev in early 1917, he met the Transylvanian activist Hortensia Goga, who described him as \"healthy and content, [...] seems not to be preoccupied by anything except his own person.\"\n\nEventually, the PNM, representing the more right-wing and nationalist politicians in the Governorate, proposed Bessarabian autonomy and the creation of a national legislature, \"Sfatul Țării\". Stroescu, as the \"Grand Old Man\" of nationalism, was the PNM's honorary leader, with Paul Gore as the executive president and Halippa as secretary. Later, he and Halippa attended the Soldiers' Congress in Odessa, which affirmed its support for \"autonomous Bessarabia\" and a federated Russian Republic. The uniformed procession paid him homage by parading in front of London Hotel, where he was staying. In June of the same year, as the gentry assembly formed a Society for Assisting Popular Education and the Study of National Customs, Stroescu became honorary chairman; Gore and Vladimir Hertza were its \"active presidents\".\n\nDuring the October Revolution and Russia's disintegration, \"Sfatul Țării\" was established and Stroescu nominally stood in the regional election. At the time, Pelivan argues, Stroescu was \"a great nationalist, but less of a democrat\", and alienated from his constituents because \"(since 1900) he lived mostly abroad.\" As noted by Halippa, Stroescu and Hertza were trying to set up a distinct PNM for the boyars: \"their action did not lead to much [...], although we revolutionaries never objected to them being elected to \"Sfatul Țării\" [...], since we believed that all intellectual forces needed to be consulted in political matters\". Historian Charles Upson Clark claims that he even served for a while as the legislature's president, during Bessarabia's brief existence as a nominally independent Moldavian Democratic Republic. However, Stroescu is known to have been seriously ill from September 1917 to the early months of 1919, leaving for England and France, and only championed the union of Bessarabia with Romania from afar.\n\nIn March 1918, when \"Sfatul Țării\" was visited by the Romanian Prime Minister Alexandru Marghiloman and voted in favor of union, Stroescu was in Paris. This was an uncertain period, with him in Allied territory while Romania capitulated to the Central Powers. At the time, Stroescu wrote his will, with Pelivan as his executor. It called for redistributing his land (much of it already taken over by the \"zemstvo\"), or, alternatively, donating it to the Romanian state; in exchange, he only demanded that peasants receive education in Romanian. As noted in 1927 by Clark, this document reflected the \"comfortable old Russian patriarchal atmosphere\", and was already outdated by the pace of \"militant equalization\"—although the dream of Romanian education was eventually fulfilled by the state itself, with its mandatory literacy programs.\n\nOn September 1, 1918, returning to Paris, Stroescu joined Vasile Lucaciu and Ioan Cantacuzino in creating a National Romanian Action Committee for promoting the cause of Greater Romania in Allied countries. He later attached himself to Take Ionescu's National Committee for Romanian Unity. Following the November Armistice, Marghiloman was deposed and Romania, Bessarabia included, reentered the war. In December, this step ensured the Transylvanian union, with the new borders awaiting international recognition at the Paris Peace Conference. Throughout the following months, to Marghiloman's worry, Western powers seemed to favor placing Bessarabia, in whole or in part, under a League of Nations mandate. In the national election of November 1919, Halippa enlisted Stroescu as a candidate for his Bessarabian Peasants' Party (PȚB), which resulted in him representing Orhei County in the Assembly of Deputies. Stroescu shared his ticket with historian Nicolae Iorga, although the latter was not a PȚB man. As recalled by Halippa, he ran simultaneously (and won) in three other electoral precincts—Hotin, Soroca, and Bălți; and, according to other sources, also in Tighina County and Lăpușna.\n\nOn November 20, as an homage to his work in promoting the Romanian cause, Stroescu was also selected to preside upon Greater Romania's first parliamentary session, effectively as the Assembly's honorary President. Praised by Iorga for its composition and style, the speech forewarned: \"With a habit that has become second-nature, we scour the scene to find ways in which we may partake in the fruit of other people's labor. No, Gentlemen, this will no loger do! We must labor ourselves and commit to providing for ourselves. [...] In this life of ours we must maintain clean thoughts and clean hands.\" This drew attention from Marghiloman's Progressive Conservatives, disgraced for their sympathy for the Central Powers. Marghiloman was drawn to Stroescu's anti-corruption hints, namely that \"the new administrations of Bessarabia should keep their hands clean.\"\n\nReplaced within a few months by Iorga, Stroescu had also become a critic of the Romanian administration, speaking at the Assembly rostrum about the deteriorating situation of his native province and the state of siege it was placed under. On February 10, 1920, he took a stand against Ion Inculeț, the PȚB Minister for Bessarabia, accusing him of tolerating \"oppression in savage fashion\", and concluding, to his colleagues' dismay, that \"the situation was better under the old Russian régime.\" This pitted him against the mainstream of his party, and also against Iorga. Despite shows of support from the Socialist Party benches and some PȚB deputies, Iorga suspended the session, accusing Stroescu of having \"insult[ed] all the past and the future of the nation\"; he was supported in this by Marghiloman. In his diary, Iorga summarized the incident: \"Stroescu insulted from the rostrum this country as one of exploiters and awful clerks. I asked him to step down.\"\n\nStroescu was also censured by Inculeț, who dismissed his speech as \"café gossip\" and a landowner's malcontent, noting that the Bessarabian gentry as a whole reacted with \"profound egotism\" to the proposed land reform. Nevertheless, Stroescu's position was endorsed by the daily \"Adevărul\", which referred to Inculeț as a \"satrap\" who simply ignored criticism, and called Iorga's moderating stance \"absurd diplomacy\". The paper also denounced Inculeț's suggestion that those dissatisfied with his administration, Stroescu included, could opt to move to Soviet Russia. In March, according to the same Iorga, Stroescu voted \"discreetly\" against land reform, and then spoke out against the majority of supporters.\n\nAccording to historians Sorina and Ioan Bolovan, \"Stroescu kept apart from the demagoguery, careerism and pettiness of political intrigues.\" In August 1923, partly as a protest against government arbitrariness, he participated in the founding of a League for Human Rights, with such members as Constantin Costa-Foru, Dem I. Dobrescu, Victor Eftimiu, Grigore Iunian, Ioan Pangal, Istrate Micescu, Ilie Moscovici, Constantin Titel Petrescu, Radu D. Rosetti, and Ștefan Voitec. He was elected its first president, with Costa-Foru serving as his secretary. His criticism of government was followed with interest in White émigré circles, where it was believed that a restored Russian monarchy should include Bessarabia. On their behalf, Alexander N. Krupensky suggested that Stroescu, \"an honest man in spite of his accepting to be 'elected' by the Roumanian Government as one of the Bessarabian deputies\", openly spoke on topics that Iorga and other establishment politicians wanted kept secret. In Soviet Russia, which advanced its own claim to Bessarabia, propagandist Christian Rakovsky also used Stroescu's words against Romanian nationalist claims in his 1925 exposé, \"Rumynia i Bessarabia\".\n\nWith his final donation of land, Stroescu renounced his manor in Brînzeni to set up an agricultural and technical school. His prewar fund for ASTRA's public libraries, comprising 25,000 Kronen in 1914, was supplemented by the Transylvania's Directing Council and put to use in 1920. Before his death in Bucharest on April 14, 1926, Stroescu served in Senate, representing a Transylvanian constituency. His funeral service was held on April 17 at the Orthodox White Church on Calea Victoriei, and witnessed orations by priest Ioan Lupaș, who was also the incumbent Minister of Health, and by Patriarch Miron Cristea; the following day, a memorial service was held at Sibiu Cathedral.\n\nStroescu was awarded a state funeral at Bucharest's Sfânta Vineri Cemetery. His tomb there was later decorated with a bust by the Moldavian Mihai Onofrei, and a Bucharest street was renamed after him. The funeral itself was attended by his former colleague and rival Iorga. He noted delegates of all those who had been helped by the deceased—the church, the Bessarabian Peasantists, and the nationalists—but also that the establishment itself was absent. In his obituary, Iorga referred to Stroescu as a \"great charitable man and generous benefactor\". Other obituaries appeared during the following week. They included front-page editorials in \"Universul\", \"Gazeta Transilvaniei\", \"Telegraful Român\", \"Cuvântul Ardealului\" and (penned by Ghibu) \"Biruința\", with additional coverage in ASTRA's \"Societatea de Mâine\".\n\nStroescu's activity was first explored methodically in an essay by Alexandru Ciulcu, published by \"Viața Basarabiei\" magazine in 1940. Just months later, Bessarabia fell under a Soviet occupation, during which Ciulcu himself was killed by the NKVD. Stroescu's memory was repressed in the resulting Moldavian SSR and, later, in Communist Romania. Nationalized, the Brînzeni manor was turned into a psychiatric clinic. During the national communism of the 1960s, Halippa and the Bessarabian community in Bucharest tried to commemorate their former leader, but were reportedly prevented to do so by the authorities. However, in 1968, Halippa managed to invoke Stroescu and bring up the issue of his being \"forgotten\", with a formal address to the Academy. Such work was partly continued in America by a nephew of Stroescu's, the journalist Gheorghe Ștefan Donev (1909–1993).\n\nThe repressive trend was reversed following the Romanian Revolution of 1989: in 2013, a Palace of the Parliament hall was renamed in his honor, but, as historian Sever Dumitrașcu noted, no Transylvanian school once funded by his money ever accepted to acknowledge him in the same fashion. In independent Moldova, the lyceum in Brînzeni took his name. A Moldovan Vasile Stroescu Foundation was created, a memorial plaque was put up in 1996 at Trinca, and efforts have been made to establish a memorial house in Brînzeni.\n\n"}
{"id": "53030269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53030269", "title": "Wear it Purple Day", "text": "Wear it Purple Day\n\nWear it Purple Day is an annual LGBTIQA+ awareness day especially for young people, based in Australia. Supporters wear purple to celebrate diversity and young people from the LGBTIQA+ community.\n\nThe Day is organised by Wear it Purple, a student run, not-for-profit organisation, providing presentations and workshops.\n\nBusinesses, councils, schools, community groups and clubs can participate by wearing purple and hosting events.\n\nIt is celebrated on the last Friday in August each year in Australia and was launched in 2010. Previous years have celebrated the day in September or October. The day was co-founded by Katherine Hudson and Scott Williams, when Hudson was in high school and Williams was in the first year of university. Hudson graduated from Burwood Girls High School in 2011, which was later a site of controversy due to the Wear it Purple Day events involving screening the Gayby Baby film.\n\nWear it Purple Day was created in response to the suicide of New Jersey teen Tyler Clementi.\n\nHudson states that she \"“...saw purple as a way of bringing people together from all different backgrounds and creating one thing…a symbol of unity...\"\" Williams found that working with Wear it Purple has given him a more positive perspective.\n\nThe first Wear it Purple Day asked participants to wear a purple arm band \"...to show support for queer teens at risk.\" The day's focus has changed from initially being about sorrow and self-harm prevention, to a celebration of rainbow youth and pride.\n\nThe first Wear it Purple Day in 2010 was supported by the Federal Minister for Health, the Teachers Federation, Coming Out Australia and RUOK?. Members of Parliament from almost all parties attended Wear it Purple Day's inaugural reception. At the reception, Adrian Piccoli (then-Education Minister) mentioned the progress of the pilot Proud Schools program, and committed the continuing the program. The Proud Schools program ceased in 2015.\n\nWear it Purple Day received a funding grant in 2012 (as part of Mental Health Week) from the NSW Mental Health Association and ACON.\n\nThe Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras has included a Wear it Purple float in the parade in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Both the 2017 and 2018 floats were run in conjunction with the NSW Police Force GLLOs (Gay and Lesbian Liaison Officers). The Australian Pride Network awarded the Wear it Purple stall at Fair Day with Best Fair Day Youth Stall (2014), and Best Community stall (2016). In a 2011 interview, co-founder Scott Williams highlighted the importance of Mardi Gras to young people, and for Wear it Purple to participate and bring visibility to young rainbow people.\n\nThe Department of Health celebrated Wear it Purple Day in 2015 by inviting staff to a forum with guest speakers from headspace, Safe Schools Coalition ACT, and ACT Sexual Health and Family Planning.\n\nThe council, City of Sydney has used purple lighting to illuminate town hall to demonstrate their support for the day in 2016.\n\nPolice have shown their support by wearing purple uniforms while patrolling in the community in Tamworth, Queensland and Southwest Sydney in 2016. Queensland Police Service officers wore purple bootlaces for the day in 2015. Police in NSW have participated in Wear it Purple Day since 2012, through school visits and presentations, community activities and on social media. Police Transport Command officers in Sydney celebrated Wear it Purple Day in 2014 by wearing purple wristbands and decorating their command buses. NSW Police began participating because of their concerns over youth suicide rates and to highlight that police are part of the community, and their role in preventing homophobic and transphobic bullying and crime. Other emergency sector organisations supporting Wear it Purple Day include Queensland Ambulance Service (2015), and in 2014; NSW Emergency Service, the Ambulance Services of NSW, Fire and Rescue NSW, the NSW Rural Fire Service and the Australian Federal Police. Defence staff have also participated, with encouragement from Defence Gay and Lesbian Information Service (DEFGLIS). The Navy's Systems Training School at HMAS Watson hosted events for Wear it Purple Day in 2013.\n\nThere has also been strong support from the banking sector, including screenings for employees of Westpac, Macquarie Bank and NAB. Telstra provided support for the Day in 2014 with resource packs on cyber-bullying for all registered schools in Australia.\n\nOther organisations and businesses have hosted purple-themed events including dress-up photo booths and rainbow zinc face-painting, exhibitions with music, art and workshops, and an Instagram Scavenger Hunt.\n\nMorning teas have included purple cupcake stalls and purple-inspired food creations in bake-offs. Northholm Grammar School hosted a fundraising poetry slam for Wear it Purple Day in 2015.\n\nWear it Purple Day has also been celebrated beyond Australia. In 2013 the Gay, Transgender, Lesbian, Bisexual (GTLB) Diversity Project and Youth Alley hosted in Timaru (New Zealand).\n\nThe 2015 Wear it Purple Day was highlighted by the Andrews Labor government, who marked the day by announcing a round of small grants to support LGBTI young people.\n\nWidespread use of hashtags #wearitpurple and #beproudofwhoyouare included selfies, personal stories and event documentation to demonstrate support and increase visibility.\n\nWear it Purple Day was highlighted as a successful grassroots campaign at the National Safe Schools Symposium in 2012.\n\nThe Western Australia Equal Opportunity Commission (WAEOC) celebrated Wear it Purple Day in 2014 by releasing online guidelines: \"Supporting Sexual and Gender Diversity in Schools\". The guidelines focus on assisting students who experience homophobic bullying. For Wear it Purple Day in 2016, WAEOC promoted its participation in the ALLY program, which supports increasing understanding of diversity.\n\nIn 2016, co-founder Hudson received recognition for her LGBTI advocacy by featuring in a mural by street artist Kaff-eine in ANZ's Street Art Project.\n\nMadonna mentioned the Wear it Purple campaign in 2011.\n\nMinister Matt Kean highlighted Wear it Purple Day in his inaugural speech to Parliament in 2011.\n\nPenny Sharpe submitted a motion to the NSW Upper House of Parliament in 2012, for the group's achievements to be acknowledged.\n\nWear it Purple Day 2014 was acknowledged by the Australian Senate in a motion submitted by Senator Sarah Hanson-Young.\n\nA student at Victor Harbor High School, Gemma Cole, helped to run Wear It Purple Day at her school in 2011, and then received the 2011 Lions Club Citizenship Award at her graduation.\n\nNSW’s LGBTI community awarded co-founders Katherine and Scott with the Young Achiever Award at the 2013 Honour Awards.\n\nJayde Ellis, 2013 spokesperson of Wear it Purple Day, received a Safer Communities Award in the 2014 National Youth Awards.\n\nTeacher Alex Stefan of Colo High School in the Hawkesbury, was nominated for a 2017 Honour Award for starting the first LGBTI group at the school and promoting school-wide celebrations of Wear it Purple Day. \n\nIn March 2017, Liberal Senator Eric Abetz complained that the Department of Finance was \"reverse bullying\", by pressuring staff into participating in Wear it Purple Day.\n\nIn an August 2017 commentary piece in the Australian, Kevin Donnelly (Senior Research Fellow at the Australian Catholic University) opposed the Australian Education Union's promotion of Wear it Purple Day. He stated that the campaign was evidence of the \"cultural left\" dominating the education system. Donnelly had previously noted similar views about the cultural left in a March 2017 opinion piece in the Daily Telegraph. His discussion of identity politics stated that the \"LGBTQ agenda\" [sic] dominates the education system through activities such as school celebrations of the \"national Wear it Purple campaign\" [sic].\n\nMiranda Devine has written that Christian employees of organisations which have signed up to the marriage equality campaign, now feel frightened and intimidated at work. Devine claimed that a Telstra employee was re-sent a \"mandatory\" Wear it Purple event invitation multiple times by executive staff.\n\nIn 2017, parents at Kambala School complained about posters promoting a \"Wear it Rainbow\" event linked with Wear it Purple Day. It was reported in the Australian that the school was being subjected to \"rainbow hijacking\" [sic]. The posters were removed because they were not authorised by the school's management, but principal Shane Hogan advised the media that the school would still celebrate the day itself. Angela Priestley's reply to the \"rainbow hijacking\" article noted that the posters were installed by students, and that the concerned parents should have approached the school's principal.\n\nDuring an August 2017 interview on 2GB radio with Ray Hadley, NSW Education Minister Rob Stokes noted that school principals had been notified to take care around diversity issues (including Wear it Purple Day) in the context of the marriage equality plebiscite.\n\nThe organisation \"You're teaching our children what?\" created an anti-Wear it Purple Day campaign in August 2016, stating: \"It's OK NOT to wear purple...\". The group claim that the Days result in reverse bullying of students not demonstrating support for the campaign.\n\nThe Marriage Alliance group created a \"rainbow noose\" for campaign material against marriage equality, in February 2016. The advertisement depicted a rainbow noose around a praying woman's neck with the tagline \"Same sex marriage increases PC bullying in the workplace\". Marriage Alliance spokesperson Sophie York told Four Corners that the meme was inspired by a \"workplace incident\" of a man's concern about receiving an email about his workplace's participation in \"Wear Purple day\" [sic]. The advertisement was later banned by the Advertising Standards Bureau. The group was condemned for their rainbow noose meme by Tim Watts in Federal Parliament on 4 February 2016.\n\nThe NSW Teachers Federation supports Wear it Purple Day, but during 2015, some schools received criticism in the face of celebrating Wear it Purple Day. Cheltenham Girls’ High School principal Susan Bridge received letters from parents about their disagreement with the introduction of the overarching national framework of Safe Schools, which included \"...theme days at the school such as Wear it Purple Day...\". Miranda Devine alleged that the celebration of Wear it Purple Day at Cheltenham Girls' High School caused \"...some students... [to] ...feel marginalised and excluded if they do not embrace the ideology.\", with MP Damien Tudehope adding that students are \"ostracised\" if they do not support \"Purple Day\" [sic]. David Phillips, then-National Director of FamilyVoice Australia, gave evidence to the Australian Parliament's Legal and Constitutional Affairs References Committee, that students were vilified and bullied if they upheld the traditional definition of marriage and chose not to participate in Wear it Purple Day.\n\nIn the time since the ban, some school leaders have supported Wear it Purple Day, but shied away from having their school featured in a press release about the event.\n\nSydney University law professor, Patrick Parkinson's paper on the Safe Schools Program (profiled in an article in The Australian) alleged that children with \"traditional values\" could be \"bullied or marginalised\" for their reaction to Wear it Purple Day (using the day as an example of a related event within the context of the Safe Schools Program). In Josh Taylor's article response, he noted that while Parkinson's view was that \"...children from religious households could be bullied for not supporting anti-bullying programs like ...Wear it Purple Day.\" and that Parkinson had \"a long history of work on the conservative side of the debate\". In an opinion piece on the Teachers' Christian Fellowship of NSW site, John Gore has suggested that a Christian response would be for schools to redraft their existing school anti-bullying programs and incorporate LGBT issues in school curricula and library resources.\n\nWear it Purple Day co-founder Katherine Hudson debated with Fred Nile on ABC’s special episode of Q&A (18 June 2015) about homosexual law reform and the Safe Schools Program.\n\nFilm director Maya Newell offered Gayby Baby to be screened in schools ahead of the film's official release for Wear it Purple Day 2015. Producer Charlotte Mars noted that the hybrid-cinema release and school screenings linked with their faith that Australian independent films can make a lasting impact.\n\nNewell presented an event about the film at her alumnus, Burwood Girls High School (also attended by co-founder of Wear it Purple Day, Katherine Hudson). Up to 50 Australian schools including 20 in NSW had organised a simultaneous broadcast of the film on Wear it Purple Day.\n\nHowever, the film received a NSW statewide ban by Education Minister Adrian Piccoli, even though he had not viewed it. The decision to ban screenings was condemned and labelled as \"cruel rubbish\" by Daniel Andrews (Victorian State Premier). Tim Wilson (then an Australian Human Rights Commissioner) said that while \"Wearing a colour one day a year probably seems trite. But, for the students privately dealing with issues around their sexual orientation or gender identity, it is a beacon of hope. Without a word being mentioned it sends a clear message that there are people who support you.\"\n\nThe film's ban resulted in extensive news coverage and protests to the government. Greens Member for Newtown Jenny Leong said that the positive initiative of the film screening should not be blocked, and suggested the ban was in response to the headlines in the Daily Telegraph. Trevor Khan countered that rather than being a ban of the film, it was an \"opt-out arrangement\" with the option to screen the film during non-lesson times. Wear it Purple Day co-founder Katherine Hudson told ABC radio that although the Wear it Purple Day campaign had received support from the Government over the years, that in a sense, the ban deligitimized the Day.\n\nThe Prefects of Burwood Girls High School issued a statement on their Facebook page reiterating their dismay at the media coverage, and their support for equality and acceptance for all people. At the original planned time of the film's screening, Burwood Girls students continued with usual school subjects, but protested by wearing purple pom-poms in their hair.\n\nMike Baird (New South Wales State Premier) stated that the ban was not about the film's content, but focused on Burwood Girls High School using classtime to show the film for Wear it Purple Day.\n\nActress Brenna Harding has said that \"...the message of Wear It Purple — of support to young LGBTI people and kids with same-sex parents — was in danger of being drowned out...\" by the banning of the film Gayby Baby and associated events at some Australian schools. Senator Penny Wong similarly stated that Wear it Purple Day was designed to show LGBTI young people that they are supported, but that rather than addressing bullying, people reverted to sensationalist controversy.\n\nIn 2016, the NSW Government asked film producer Charlotte Mars to amend text in a promotional email, regarding the wording around their support for the film.\n\nDocuments later obtained under freedom of information laws showed that the Department of Premier and Cabinet received 55 congratulatory messages on the ban, which were outnumbered by 85 complaints about the ban. Reverend Mark Powell alleged that the Wear it Purple Day organisation was operating against the Education Department guidelines and that the volume of complaints was not recorded accurately. The Education Department initially advised reporters at The Guardian that they had not received complaints, and later recanted on this statement to reporters at The Daily Telegraph. Craig Laundy, whose electorate covers Burwood, stated that he had been inundated with calls from parents and community representatives, expressing concern about the planned film screening.\n\nIn 2015, Dubbo coffee shop owner Karen Payne has faced negativity from a customer for her business signage celebrating Wear It Purple Day.\n\nStudents at Craigieburn Secondary College distributed supportive flyers for Wear it Purple Day in 2012, as part of Craigieburn's Same-Sex Attracted Friendly Environment (SSAFE) group. A teacher confiscated and removed some of the flyers, and a student was verbally supported by a peer. The school removed the flyers from the walls, but Principal Julie Robertson stated that this was because the group had not sought permission for the display.\n\nAfter the Wear it Purple website was launched in December 2010, the Department of Education and Training filter blocked it from being viewed on Government school computers.\n\nMany years of Wear it Purple Day include a theme or associated projects, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12413257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12413257", "title": "Wooden O Symposium", "text": "Wooden O Symposium\n\nThe Wooden O Symposium is a cross disciplinary conference exploring Medieval, Renaissance, and Early Modern Studies, through the study and performance of the works of William Shakespeare. Scholars from many disciplines present papers that offer insights and new ideas springing from the era of William Shakespeare. His plays are replete with the language, thoughts and arts of the Renaissance and Western culture and represent an inexhaustible source for creative ideas and research.\n\nThe symposium is hosted by Southern Utah University, home of the Tony Award-winning Utah Shakespearean Festival. A major focus of the scholarly event is the interface between scholarship and performance and how the pursuit of one area can enrich and inform the other.\n\nThe Festival is noted for the Adams Memorial Theater, a beautiful open air performance space modeled after Shakespeare's own Globe Theatre, the original \"wooden O.\"\nThis academic conference takes place every year in Cedar City, Utah and runs the first Monday through Wednesday of August.\n\n"}
