{"id": "15796209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15796209", "title": "2008 Kosovo declaration of independence", "text": "2008 Kosovo declaration of independence\n\nThe 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence was adopted on 17 February 2008 by the Assembly of Kosovo. In a meeting attended by 109 of the total 120 members, the assembly unanimously declared Kosovo to be independent from Serbia, while all 11 representatives of the Serb minority boycotted the proceedings. It was the second declaration of independence by Kosovo's Albanian-majority political institutions; the first was proclaimed on 7 September 1990.\n\nThe legality of the declaration has been disputed. Serbia sought international validation and support for its stance that the declaration was illegal, and in October 2008 requested an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice. The Court determined that the declaration did not violate international law.\n\nAs a result of the ICJ decision, a joint Serbia-EU resolution was passed in the United Nations General Assembly which called for an EU-facilitated dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia to \"promote cooperation, achieve progress on the path to the European Union and improve the lives of the people.\" The dialogue resulted in the 2013 Brussels deal between Serbia and Kosovo which abolished all of the Republic of Serbia's institutions in Kosovo. Dejan Pavićević is the official representative of Serbia to Kosovo. Valdet Sadiku is the official representative of Kosovo to Serbia.\n\nThe Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija took shape in 1945 as the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija (1945–1963) within Socialist Yugoslavia, as an autonomous region within People's Republic of Serbia. Initially a ceremonial entity, more power was devolved to Kosovan authorities with each constitutional reform. In 1968 it became the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo and in 1974 new constitution enabled the province to function at every administrative level independently of its host republic within Yugoslavia. Increasing ethnic tension throughout Yugoslavia in the late 1980s amid rising nationalism among its nations eventually led to a decentralised state: this facilitated Serbian President Slobodan Milošević in effectively terminating the privileges awarded to the Kosovar assembly in 1974. The move attracted criticism from the leaderships of the other Yugoslav republics but no higher authority was in place to reverse the measure. In response to the action, the Kosovo Assembly voted on 2 July 1990 to declare Kosovo an independent state, and this received recognition from Albania. A state of emergency and harsh security rules were subsequently imposed against Kosovo's Albanians following mass protests. The Albanians established a \"parallel state\" to provide education and social services while boycotting or being excluded from Yugoslav institutions. \nKosovo remained largely quiet through the Yugoslav wars. The severity of the Yugoslav government in Kosovo was internationally criticised. In 1996, the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) began attacking federal security forces. The conflict escalated until Kosovo was on the verge of all-out war by the end of 1998. In January 1999, NATO warned that it would intervene militarily against Yugoslavia if it did not agree to the introduction of an international peacekeeping force and the establishment of local government in Kosovo. Subsequent peace talks failed and from 24 March to 11 June 1999, NATO carried out an extensive bombing campaign against FR Yugoslavia including targets in Kosovo itself. The war ended with Milošević agreeing to allow peacekeepers into Kosovo and withdrawing all security forces so as to transfer governance to the United Nations.\n\nA NATO-led Kosovo Force (KFOR) entered the province following the Kosovo War, tasked with providing security to the UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). Before and during the handover of power, an estimated 100,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians, mostly Romani, fled the province for fear of reprisals. In the case of the non-Albanians, the Romani in particular were regarded by many Albanians as having assisted federal forces during the war. Many left along with the withdrawing security forces, expressing fears that they would be targeted by returning Albanian refugees and KLA fighters who blamed them for wartime acts of violence. Thousands more were driven out by intimidation, attacks and a wave of crime after the war.\n\nLarge numbers of refugees from Kosovo still live in temporary camps and shelters in Serbia proper. In 2002, Serbia and Montenegro reported hosting 277,000 internally displaced people (the vast majority being Serbs and Roma from Kosovo), which included 201,641 persons displaced from Kosovo into Serbia proper, 29,451 displaced from Kosovo into Montenegro, and about 46,000 displaced within Kosovo itself, including 16,000 returning refugees unable to inhabit their original homes.\nSome sources put the figure far lower. In 2004 the European Stability Initiative estimated the number of displaced people as being only 65,000, with 130,000 Serbs remaining in Kosovo, though this would leave a significant proportion of the pre-1999 ethnic Serb population unaccounted-for. The largest concentration of ethnic Serbs in Kosovo is in the north of the province above the Ibar river, but an estimated two-thirds (75,000) of the Serbian population in Kosovo continue to live in the Albanian-dominated south of the province.\n\nOn 17 March 2004, serious unrest in Kosovo led to 19 deaths, and the destruction of thirty-five Serbian Orthodox churches and monasteries in the province, as Albanians started pogroms against the Serbs. Several thousand more Kosovo Serbs have left their homes to seek refuge in Serbia proper or in the Serb-dominated north of Kosovo.\n\nSince the end of the war, Kosovo has been a major source and destination country in the trafficking of women, women forced into prostitution and sexual slavery. The growth in the sex trade industry was fuelled by NATO forces in Kosovo.\n\nInternational negotiations began in 2006 to determine the final status of Kosovo, as envisaged under UN Security Council Resolution 1244 which ended the Kosovo conflict of 1999. Serbia's continued sovereignty over Kosovo was recognised internationally. The vast majority of the province's population sought independence.\n\nThe 2008 declaration was a product of failed negotiations concerning the adoption of the Ahtisaari plan, which broke down in the fall of 2007. The plan, prepared by the UN Special Envoy and former President of Finland, Martti Ahtisaari, stipulated a sort of supervised independence for Kosovo, without expressly using the word \"independence\" among its proposals. Under the plan, Kosovo would gain self-governance under the supervision of the European Union, and become obligated to expressly protect its minorities' rights by means of a constitution and a representative government. Kosovo would be accorded its own national symbols such as a flag and a coat of arms, and be obligated to carry out border demarcation on the Kosovo-Republic of Macedonia border. The Albanian negotiators supported the Ahtisaari plan essentially in whole, and the plan gained the backing of the European Union and of the United States. However, Serbia and Russia rejected it outright, and no progress was possible on the United Nations front.\n\nFaced with no progress on negotiations in sight, the Kosovars decided to unilaterally proclaim the Republic of Kosovo, obligating themselves in the process to follow the Ahtisaari plan's provisions in full. As of mid-April 2008, this has largely been the case, with the new Republic adopting a constitution written by local and international scholars protecting minority rights and providing for a representative government with guaranteed ethnic representation, which law is to take effect on 15 June 2008. It also adopted some of its national symbols already, including the flag and coat of arms, while work continues on defining the anthem. It has also engaged, albeit with a delay, in the border demarcation talks with Macedonia, initially insisting on being recognised first, but dropping this condition later on.\n\nThe 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence elicited mixed reaction internationally and a polarised one domestically, the latter along the division of Kosovo Serbs vs. the Kosovo Albanians. Accordingly, effective control in Kosovo has also fractured along these lines.\n\nAfter 13 years of international oversight, Kosovo's authorities formally obtained full unsupervised control of the region (less only North Kosovo) on 10 September 2012 when Western Powers terminated their oversight. The International Steering Group, in its final meeting with the authorities in Pristina, declared that the Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement, known as the Ahtisaari plan after its Finnish UN creator, had been substantially implemented. Nonetheless, as of November 2015, United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo still functions, albeit at a greatly reduced capacity.\n\nAfter the end of the Kosovo War in 1999, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1244 to provide a framework for Kosovo's interim status. It placed Kosovo under transitional UN administration, demanded a withdrawal of Serbian security forces from Kosovo and envisioned an eventual UN-facilitated political process to resolve the status of Kosovo.\n\nIn February 2007, Martti Ahtisaari delivered a draft status settlement proposal to leaders in Belgrade and Pristina, the basis for a draft UN Security Council Resolution which proposed 'supervised independence' for the province. By early July 2007 a draft resolution, backed by the United States and the European Union members of the Security Council, had been rewritten four times to try to accommodate Russian concerns that such a resolution would undermine the principle of state sovereignty. However, it had still not found agreement. Russia, which holds a veto in the Security Council as one of five permanent members, stated that it would not support any resolution which was not acceptable to both Serbia and the Kosovo Albanians. While most observers had, at the beginning of the talks, anticipated independence as the most likely outcome, others suggested that a rapid resolution might not be preferable.\n\nThe talks finally broke down, late 2007 with the two sides remaining far apart, with the minimum demands of each side being more than the other was willing to accept.\n\nAt the turn of 2008, the media started reporting that the Kosovo Albanians were determined to proclaim independence. This came at the time when the ten-year anniversary of the Kosovo War was looming (with the five-year anniversary being marked by violent unrest); the U.S. President George W. Bush was in his last year in power and not able to seek re-election; and two nations which had previously seceded from Yugoslavia were in important political positions (Slovenia presiding over the EU and Croatia an elected member of the UN Security Council). The proclamation was widely reported to have been postponed until after the Serbian presidential election, 2008, held on 20 January and 3 February, given that Kosovo was an important topic of the election campaign.\n\n\"We, the democratically elected leaders of our people, hereby declare Kosovo to be an independent and sovereign state. This declaration reflects the will of our people and it is in full accordance with the recommendations of UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari and his Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement. We declare Kosovo to be a democratic, secular and multi-ethnic republic, guided by the principles of non-discrimination and equal protection under the law.\"\n\nThe declaration of independence was made by members of the Kosovo Assembly as well as by the President of Kosovo meeting in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, on 17 February 2008. It was approved by a unanimous quorum, numbering 109 members. Eleven deputies representing Serbian national minority boycotted the proceedings. All nine other ethnic minority representatives were part of the quorum. \nThe terms of the declaration state that Kosovo's independence is limited to the principles outlined by the Ahtisaari plan. It prohibits Kosovo from joining any other country, provides for only a limited military capability, states that Kosovo will be under international supervision and provides for the protection of minority ethnic communities.\nThe original papyrus version of the declaration signed that day is in the Albanian language. The Albanian text of the declaration is the sole authentic text.\n\nOn 18 February 2008 the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia declared Kosovo's declaration of independence as null and void per the suggestion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia deemed the act illegal arguing it was not in coordination with the UN Charter, the Constitution of Serbia, the Helsinki Final Act, UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (including the previous resolutions) and the Badinter Commission.\n\nAccording to writer Noel Malcolm, the 1903 constitution was still in force at the time that Serbia annexed Kosovo during the First Balkan War. He elaborates that this constitution required a Grand National Assembly before Serbia's borders could be expanded to include Kosovo; but no such Grand National Assembly was ever held. Constitutionally, he argues, Kosovo should not have become part of the Kingdom of Serbia. It was initially ruled by decree.\n\nThe Contact Group had issued in 2005 the Guiding Principles upon which the final status of Kosovo shall be decided.\n\nRecognition of Kosovo's independence is controversial. A number of countries fear that it is a precedent, affecting other contested territories in Europe and non-European parts of the former Soviet Union, such as Abkhazia and South Ossetia.\n\nThe text of Kosovo's declaration of independence addressed this issue by stating \"...Observing that Kosovo is a special case arising from Yugoslavia's non-consensual breakup and is not a precedent for any other situation, Recalling the years of strife and violence in Kosovo, that disturbed the conscience of \"all civilized people\"...\" However, Ted Galen Carpenter of the Cato Institute stated the view of Kosovo being \"sui generis\" and setting no precedent is \"extraordinarily naïve\".\n\nThe newly proclaimed republic has not been seated at the United Nations, as it is generally believed that any application for UN membership would be vetoed by Russia. Russia vowed to oppose Kosovo's independence with a \"plan of retaliation\". Serbia has likewise proactively declared the annulment of Kosovo's independence and vowed to oppose Kosovo's independence with a package of measures intended to discourage the international recognition of the republic.\n\nOn 8 October 2008, The UN General Assembly voted to refer Kosovo's independence declaration to the International Court of Justice; 77 countries voted in favour, 6 against and 74 abstained. The ICJ was asked to give an advisory opinion on the legality of Kosovo's declaration of independence from Serbia in February. The court delivered its advisory opinion on 2010; by a vote of 10 to 4, it declared that \"the declaration of independence of the 17th of February 2008 did not violate general international law because international law contains no 'prohibition on declarations of independence'.\"\n\nEthnic Albanians in Kosovo greeted the news with celebration.\n\nThe bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo, Artemije, reacted in anger, stating that Kosovo's independence was a \"temporary state of occupation\", and that \"Serbia should buy state of the art weapons from Russia and other countries and call on Russia to send volunteers and establish a military presence in Serbia.\"\n\nIn Northern Kosovo, a UN building housing a courthouse and jail was attacked by a hand grenade, causing slight damage but no casualties. An unexploded grenade was found across the street, near a hotel that houses EU officials.\n\nAn explosive device was detonated in Mitrovica, damaging two vehicles. No casualties or injuries were reported.\n\nSerb protestors in Kosovo set fire to two border crossings on Kosovo's northern border. Both crossings are staffed by Kosovar and UN police. No injuries were reported in the attacks, but the police withdrew until KFOR soldiers arrived.\n\nA Japanese journalist wearing a UN uniform was beaten by Serbs in northern Mitrovica.\n\nHundreds of Serbs protested in the Kosovo town of Mitrovica on 22 February, which was somewhat peaceful aside from some stone-throwing and a little fighting.\n\nOn 14 March 2008 Serb protesters forcibly occupied the UN courthouse in the northern part of Kosovska Mitrovica. On 17 March, UN and NATO peacekeepers entered the courthouse to end the occupation. In the following clashes with several hundred protesters one Ukrainian UN police officer was killed, over 50 persons on each side were wounded and one UN and one NATO vehicle were torched. The UN police withdrew from northern Mitrovica leaving NATO troops to maintain order.\n\nThe Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija first met on 28 June 2008, to coordinate Serb responses to the new government.\n\nOfficial reaction by the Government of Serbia included instituting pre-emptively on 12 February 2008 an Action Plan, which stipulated, among other things, recalling the Serbian ambassadors for consultations in protest from any state recognising Kosovo, issuing arrest warrants for Kosovo leaders for high treason, and even dissolving the government on grounds of lack of consensus to deal with Kosovo, with new elections scheduled for 11 May 2008, as well as a rogue minister proposing partitioning Kosovo along ethnic lines, which initiative was shortly thereafter disavowed by the full Government, as well as the President. Late in March the government disclosed its intent to litigate the issue at the International Court of Justice and seek support at the United Nations General Assembly in September 2008.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Serbia, Vojislav Koštunica, has blamed the United States for being \"ready to violate the international order for its own military interests\" and stated that \"Today, this policy of force thinks that it has triumphed by establishing a false state. [...] As long as the Serb people exist, Kosovo will be Serbia.\" Slobodan Samardžić, the Serb minister for Kosovo, stated that, \"A new country is being established by breach of international law [...] It's better to call it a fake country.\" However, the Serbian government says they will not respond with violence.\n\nOn 17 February, about 2,000 Serbs protested at the United States Embassy in Belgrade, with some throwing stones and firecrackers at the building before being driven back by riot police. Protestors also broke windows of the embassy of Slovenia, the state that controls the EU presidency. In Belgrade and Novi Sad, McDonald's restaurants were damaged by protestors. The Serbian division of U.S. Steel, based in Smederevo, had a false bomb threat called in.\n\nThe Crown Council of House of Karadjordjevic, a former royal family of Serbia and Yugoslavia, rejected Kosovo's declaration of independence, saying that: \"Europe had diminished its own morale, embarrassed its own history and shown that it carries within its organism the virus of its own downfall,\" and that \"it is a defeat of the idea of democracy... a defeat of the universally accepted rules of international law,\" and that a \"part of the project of Mussolini and Hitler has finally been accomplished, in the territory of Serbia\".\n\nOn 21 February, there were large demonstrations by Serbs in Belgrade. There were more than 500,000 protesters. Most protesters were non-violent, but small groups attacked the United States and Croatian embassies. A group broke into The United States embassy, set it on fire, and attempted to throw furniture through the windows. The embassy was empty, except for security personnel. No embassy staff were injured, but a corpse was found; embassy spokeswoman Rian Harris stated that the embassy believes it to be an attacker.<ref name=\"yahoo 2/21\"></ref> Police took 45 minutes to arrive at the scene, and the fire was only then put out. US ambassador to the UN Zalmay Khalilzad was \"outraged\", and requested the UN Security Council immediately issue a statement \"expressing the council's outrage, condemning the attack, and also reminding the Serb government of its responsibility to protect diplomatic facilities.\" The damage to the Croatian embassy was less serious.\n\nThe Turkish and British embassies were also attacked, but police were able to prevent damage. The interior of a McDonald's was damaged. A local clinic admitted 30 injured, half of whom were police; most wounds were minor.\n\nThe Security Council responded to these incidents by issuing a unanimous statement that, \"The members of the Security Council condemn in the strongest terms the mob attacks against embassies in Belgrade, which have resulted in damage to embassy premises and have endangered diplomatic personnel,\" noting that the 1961 Vienna Convention requires host states to protect embassies.\n\nOn 22 February, the United States embassy in Serbia ordered the temporary evacuation of all non-essential personnel, after the protests and attacks on the embassy. Rian Harris, a U.S. embassy spokeswoman, explained the evacuation to AFP saying that \"Dependents are being temporarily ordered to depart Belgrade. We do not have confidence that Serbian authorities can provide security for our staff members.\"\n\nOn 23 February, 44 protesters were arrested after burning the Serbian flag, in the main square of Zagreb (Croatia), following Serb protesters attacking the Croatian embassy in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nHundreds of Bosnian Serb demonstrators broke away from a peaceful rally in Banja Luka on 26 February 2008 and headed for the United States Embassy's office there, clashing with police along the way.\n\nIn Montenegro, protests were held in Podgorica on 19 February. Protesters waved flags of the Serb People's Party and the Serbian Radical Party. Serb parties led by the Serb List are calling for a protest on 22 February to protest the independence bid.\n\nUnlike the 1990 Kosovo declaration of independence, which only Albania recognised, Kosovo's second declaration of independence has been recognised by and the Republic of China (Taiwan). However many states have also showed their opposition to Kosovo's declaration of independence, most notably China and Russia. Serbia announced before the declaration that it would withdraw its ambassador from any state which recognised independent Kosovo. Serbia, however, maintains embassies in many countries which recognise Kosovo, including Albania, Canada, Croatia, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, South Korea, Turkey, the UAE, the UK, and the US.\n\nUN.\nOn 18 February 2008 the EU presidency announced after a day of intense talks between foreign ministers that member countries were free to decide individually whether to recognise Kosovo's independence. The majority of EU member states have recognised Kosovo, but Cyprus, Greece, Romania, Slovakia and Spain have not. Some Spanish people (scholars or from the Spanish Government or opposition parties) challenged the comparison made by the Basque Government that way of Kosovo's independence could be a path for the independence of the Basque Country and Catalonia.\n\nShortly before Kosovo's declaration of independence, the European Union approved deployment of a non-military 2,000-member Rule of Law mission, \"EULEX,\" to develop further Kosovo's police and justice sector. All twenty-seven members of the EU approved the EULEX mandate, including the minority of EU countries that have still not recognised Kosovo's independence. Serbia has claimed that this is an occupation and that the EU's move is illegal.\n\nUnited States president George W. Bush welcomed the declaration of independence as well as its proclamation of friendship with Serbia, stating: \"We have strongly supported the Ahtisaari plan [implying Kosovo's independence …]. We are heartened by the fact that the Kosovo government has clearly proclaimed its willingness and its desire to support Serbian rights in Kosovo. We also believe it's in Serbia's interests to be aligned with Europe and the Serbian people can know that they have a friend in America.”\n\nRussia reacted with condemnation, stating they \"expect the UN mission and NATO-led forces in Kosovo to take immediate action to carry out their mandate [...] including the annulling of the decisions of Pristina's self-governing organs and the taking of tough administrative measures against them.”\n\nIn Tirana, the capital of Albania, 'Kosovo Day' was held as a celebration.\n\nTurkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdoğan phoned Prime Minister of Kosovo Hashim Thaçi saying the declaration of independence \"will bring to Balkans peace and stability”.\n\nThe Republic of China's (commonly known as Taiwan; non-UN member) Foreign Ministry stated \"We congratulate the Kosovo people on their winning independence and hope they enjoy the fruits of democracy and freedom. [...] Democracy and self-determination are the rights endorsed by the United Nations. The Republic of China always supports sovereign countries' seeking democracy, sovereignty and independence through peaceful means.\" Taiwan's political rival, the People's Republic of China, responded quickly, saying that \"Taiwan, as a part of China, has no right and qualification at all to make the so-called recognition\".\n\nAmongst Southeast Asian countries where Muslim separatist movements were active in at least three states, Indonesia, with the world's largest Muslim population, deferred recognition of an independent Kosovo, while the Philippines declared it will not oppose, but nor will it support Kosovo's independence. Both countries face pressures from Muslim separatist movements within their territories, notably Aceh and southern Mindanao respectively. Vietnam expressed opposition, while Singapore reported that it was still studying the situation. Malaysia, which headed the Organisation of the Islamic Conference at the time, formally recognized Kosovo's sovereignty three days after its independence.\nAustralian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd backed Kosovan independence on the morning of 18 February, saying \"This would appear to be the right course of action. That's why, diplomatically, we would extend recognition at the earliest opportunity.\" New Zealand's Former Prime Minister Helen Clark said that New Zealand would neither recognise nor not recognise an independent Kosovo. Pro-Independence rallies were held by ethnic Albanians in Canada in the days leading up to the declaration.\n\nOn 9 November 2009 New Zealand officially accepted Kosovo's independence.\n\nPresident of Northern Cyprus (a state not recognised by the UN) Mehmet Ali Talat saluted the independence of Kosovo and hopes that the state is respected and assisted, in staunch opposition to the position of the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nFollowing a request from Russia, the United Nations Security Council held an emergency session in the afternoon of 17 February. The United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, issued a statement that avoided taking sides and urged all parties \"to refrain from any actions of statements that could endanger peace, incite violence or jeopardize security in Kosovo or the region.\" Speaking on behalf of six countries—Belgium, Croatia, France, Germany, Italy and the United States—the Belgian ambassador expressed regret \"that the Security Council cannot agree on the way forward, but this impasse has been clear for many months. Today's events... represent the conclusion of a status process that has exhausted all avenues in pursuit of a negotiated outcome.\" \n\nOn July 22, 2010 the International Court of Justice ruled that the declaration did not violate international law, holding that the authors were acting in their capacity as representatives of the people of Kosovo outside the framework of the interim administration (the Assembly of Kosovo and the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government), and were therefore not bound by the Constitutional Framework (promulgated by UNMIK) or by UNSCR1244 that is addressed only to United Nations Member States and organs of the United Nations. Prior to the announcement Hashim Thaçi said there would be no \"winners or losers\" and that \"I expect this to be a correct decision, according to the will of Kosovo's citizens. Kosovo will respect the advisory opinion.\" For his part, Boris Tadić, the Serbian president, warned that \"If the International Court of Justice sets a new principle, it would trigger a process that would create several new countries and destabilise numerous regions in the world.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "268324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268324", "title": "A.N.S.W.E.R.", "text": "A.N.S.W.E.R.\n\nAct Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER), also known as International A.N.S.W.E.R. and the ANSWER Coalition, is a United States-based protest umbrella group consisting of many antiwar and civil rights organizations. Formed in the wake of the September 11th attacks, ANSWER has since helped to organize many of the largest anti-war demonstrations in the United States, including demonstrations of hundreds of thousands against the Iraq War. The group has also organized activities around a variety of other issues, ranging from the Israel/Palestine debate to immigrant rights to Social Security to the extradition of Luis Posada Carriles.\n\nANSWER characterizes itself as anti-imperialist, and its steering committee consists of socialists, communists, civil rights advocates, and left-wing or progressive organizations from the Muslim, Arab, Palestinian, Filipino, Haitian, and Latin American communities. Many of ANSWER's lead organizers had ties to the International Action Center and Workers World Party at the time of ANSWER's founding.\n\nANSWER has faced criticism from other anti-war groups for its affiliations, tactics at demonstrations, and allegedly sectarian approach to joint anti-war work. It also faced criticism from various sources for its claimed anti-Zionist politics.\n\nThough its national headquarters are in Washington, D.C., where it organizes its national antiwar demonstrations, the coalition's influence is seen as being strongest in The Castro, San Francisco, and increasingly, in Los Angeles.\n\nANSWER's first major action was a September 29, 2001, \"Anti-War, Anti-Racist\" political rally and march in Washington, D.C., primarily in protest of the impending U.S. invasion of Afghanistan. An estimated 8,000 people participated.\n\nANSWER's next major demonstration took place on April 20, 2002, which according to ANSWER's website, drew 100,000 people to Washington in the largest pro-Palestinian demonstration in U.S. history. On October 26 of that year, ANSWER held a demonstration against Congress' vote to authorize the use of force against Iraq, which according to its website drew 100,000 in San Francisco and 200,000 in Washington, D.C.\n\nANSWER called antiwar demonstrations on January 18, 2003, in Washington, D.C., and San Francisco, which were each attended by 200,000 people, according to the group's website. ANSWER was one of several groups organizing the U.S. component of the worldwide February 15, 2003 anti-war protest, which was, across the globe, the largest anti-war rally that has ever taken place. ANSWER sponsored emergency demonstrations just before the launch of the U.S. invasion of Iraq, on March 15, 2003, which according to its website drew 100,000 people each in San Francisco and Washington. With United for Peace and Justice (UFPJ), it cosponsored an anti-occupation protest in Washington on October 25 of that year which, again according to the group's website, brought out 100,000 people in Washington.\n\nANSWER called for national anti-war, pro-Palestinian, and anti-Haitian coup demonstrations on March 20, 2004, (the first anniversary of the invasion of Iraq.) The protest in New York, cosponsored by UFPJ, was attended by 100,000 according to the ANSWER website. ANSWER participated in the March for Women's Lives on April 25, and the protests of the 2004 Republican National Convention from August 30 to September 2.\n\nANSWER and UFPJ jointly sponsored a rally in Washington, D.C. on September 24, 2005, with attendance estimated by police at 150,000 and by organizers at 300,000 people.\n\nANSWER was involved with demonstrations on May Day, 2006, in support of rights for undocumented immigrants, which brought out several million people across the U.S. These protests were organized by a number of groups unrelated to ANSWER as well.\n\nIn late June 2006, ANSWER organized and participated in local rallies against the Israeli invasion of Gaza. Shortly after Israel invaded Lebanon two weeks later, ANSWER — along with the National Council of Arab Americans and the Muslim American Society — initiated a call for protests on August 12, 2006, against the \"U.S.-Israeli War on the People of Lebanon and Palestine.\" Organizers estimated that the August 12 demonstrations drew 30,000 protesters in Washington, 10,000 in San Francisco, and 5,000 in Los Angeles.\n\nANSWER called national antiwar demonstrations in San Francisco and Washington, DC for September 15, 2007. According to the group, the attendance was 100,000.\n\nANSWER joined with other groups to organize the March 20, 2010 anti-war protest in Washington, DC.\n\nANSWER figures for the size of its March, 2007, protest were higher than corresponding \"San Francisco Chronicle\" figures. ANSWER engaged in a public dispute with the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" about the size of that demonstration. ANSWER Western Regional Coordinator Richard Becker wrote in an op-ed:\n\nWHILE TENS of thousands of spirited anti-war marchers were still entering the San Francisco Civic Center on Sunday, March 18... organizers got word that a Chronicle reporter covering the event had already determined that only 3,000 people were present... Mainstream media undercounting of progressive demonstrations is nothing new, but this one had a magician's touch.\n\nAnalyzing the width and pace of the march together with the time required for the march to pass a certain point, Becker argues that the Chronicle's estimate is \"impossible.\"\n\nSome on the left have also accused ANSWER of exaggerating protest attendance. An October 2007 \"Socialist Worker\" editorial penned by Todd Chretien and republished on \"CounterPunch\" asserted: \"Ask anyone who has worked with ANSWER, and they will tell you that its organizers always double the number of people at their marches. More recently, the multiplication factor has increased.\" Chretien describes this as \"disorienting for the movement.\"\n\nMany of ANSWER's lead organizers had ties to the International Action Center and the Workers World Party (WWP) at the time of ANSWER's founding.\n\nFew other prominent antiwar groups in the U.S. or elsewhere have formal relationships with ANSWER, although many have participated in the major ANSWER-sponsored protests.\n\nThere has been much discussion among U.S. leftist opponents of the Iraq and Afghanistan invasions of the degree to which they are or are not willing to work with ANSWER because of its affiliations.\n\nMichael Albert and Stephen R. Shalom writing in \"Z magazine\" argue that regardless of the political views of some speakers at a major antiwar demonstration, \"as long as other speakers can and do express positions with a different point of view, the overall impact of the event will still be positive, particularly in the absence of other options. Most of the people at the demonstration will in fact be unaware of exactly who said what and whether any particular speaker omitted this or that point. What they will experience will be a powerful antiwar protest. And most of the public will see it that way too.\"\n\nAlthough ANSWER worked with United for Peace and Justice (UFPJ) to build the September 24, 2005, Washington, D.C. rally, a December 2005 statement by the UFPJ Steering Committee says that UFPJ \"has decided not to coordinate work with ANSWER again on a national level. The document cites three reasons for the decision:\n\nThe document says that the UFPJ Steering Committee \"did not have consensus\" about the decision not to work with ANSWER, but had \"a more than two thirds supermajority ... We make no recommendations or mandates on this issue to UFPJ member groups in local or constituency-based area...\"\n\nANSWER responded by saying that \"UFPJ has publicly proclaimed its intention to split the movement,\" and accused UFPJ of \"a false and ugly attack on the ANSWER Coalition,\" and of doing so for \"embarrassingly petty and astonishingly trivial\" reasons. Besides giving their own version of the events surrounding September 24, ANSWER's statement indicates some less trivial differences between the groups: they criticize UFPJ for its willingness to support the ideas of mainstream politicians, such as John Murtha, who are disaffected with the war, while ANSWER \"considers it harmful to try to tailor the message of the progressive movement to please the long-awaited but fictional support from the politicians.\" ANSWER asks, \"Why is it that UFPJ's leadership can build a gushing \"united front\" with imperialist politicians but not the ANSWER Coalition, which has organized hundreds of thousands of people to promote genuine peace and self-determination?\"\n\nAt considerable length, ANSWER argued that the current split has historical roots, dating back to \"the first Iraq war of 1990–1991, [when] some of the same leadership forces now in UFPJ chose to create a second antiwar coalition and insisted on marching under the banner \"Economic Sanctions Not War\" while some of those who are today in the leadership of ANSWER argued that economic sanctions were war — and a weapon of mass destruction at that. We contended that economic sanctions against Iraq would result in a form of genocide against the Iraqi people and that the only correct position for the U.S. antiwar movement was to demand, 'No war against Iraq.'… The economic sanctions ultimately took the lives of more than one million Iraqis, most of them children under the age of five, according to the UN's own statistics… The question for the antiwar movement is this: are we building a movement that comprehensively challenges imperialism or are we opposed only to certain tactics employed by imperialism such as overt, unilateral military invasion?\"\n\nRegarding the prospects of working again with UFPJ, ANSWER wrote, \"[we regard] the united front that was formed at [our] initiative to have been remarkably successful,\" and later, \"Different groups may have different slogans on their banners, but they should try to overcome the forces of division so as to march shoulder to shoulder against the real enemy.\"\n\nAlthough the language of the UFPJ Steering Committee statement makes the break appear definitive, they have published similar statements (rejecting future work with ANSWER) in the past, only to later agree to united demonstrations. A May 2005 decision to the same effect — announcing a September 24 demonstration separate from the one initiated by ANSWER — was reversed when UFPJ agreed to a united antiwar demonstration. Previous united demonstrations between the two groups took place on October 25, 2003, and March 20, 2004.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has accused ANSWER of supporting terrorist organizations, such as Hezbollah and Hamas. According to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency \"Several anti-war protests in San Francisco organized by the ANSWER Coalition (Act Now to Stop War and End Racism) featured imagery and slogans that were anti-Semitic, including the burning of the Israeli flag, chants of support for terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Nazi-like arm salutes.\" Similarly, the Stephen Roth Institute has noted \"Anti-Israel and antisemitic content has marked some ANSWER events.\"\n\nThe May–June 2003 issue of \"Tikkun\" magazine, a progressive magazine of Jewish interests, contained a special section entitled \"Authoritarianism and Anti-Semitism in the Anti-War Movement?\" According to \"Tikkun\", \"many Jews report that they were encountering what they perceived to be anti-Semitism at anti-war demonstrations organized by International A.N.S.W.E.R.\" \"Tikkun\" described the perceptions of anti-Semitism as based on Israel being singled out for criticism and ANSWER's failure to \"acknowledge or support the right of the Jewish people to national self-determination.\"\n\nAccording to ANSWER, \"We strongly abhor all forms of racism and bigotry, including anti-Semitism. At the same time, we don't believe that criticism of Israeli government policies should be labeled as anti-Semitism any more than criticism of U.S. government policy should be labeled as anti-American.\"\n\nIn addition to anti-war activism, ANSWER is involved in advocacy for rights for undocumented immigrants, believing that all immigration should be legal. ANSWER became involved in immigrant rights activism through protests against Save Our State, a California-based anti-undocumented immigration protest group, and the Minutemen Project, a group which patrols the U.S.-Mexico border to prevent illegal border crossings, and which ANSWER views as practicing racist vigilantism. These protests began soon after the founding of the Minutemen group in April 2005. ANSWER has not usually been the primary organizer of these protests but has actively supported them. For example, ANSWER helped organize counter-protests of rallies held by right-wing groups in Alhambra, California on June 21, 2005; in Sacramento, California on August 29, 2005; in Los Angeles on January 7, 2006; and in Burbank, California on January 21, 2006\n\nANSWER has also been involved in the much larger demonstrations in opposition to the Sensenbrenner Bill and support of legalization for undocumented immigrants that have occurred across the United States since March 2006. ANSWER was not the primary organizer of the initial large protests in Chicago, Los Angeles, and Dallas in late March and early April, but endorsed them. ANSWER was more prominent in the promotion of a May Day \"Day Without An Immigrant\" strike and boycott, because this call was controversial within the immigrant rights movement, contributing to a growing division between its left-wing advocates and moderates who believed a strike and boycott would be counterproductive.\n\nANSWER's position on the left side of this issue led to criticism; Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigrant Coalition and chairman of the local Service Employees International Union in Washington, D.C., told the \"Washington Post\" regarding ANSWER that, \"Groups... that have done nothing on immigration have no reason to stick their nose where it doesn't belong... They have no business saying, 'Let's do a strike' when it will create a humongous burden on immigrant groups. They need to stay in their box.\" Brian Becker, ANSWER's national coordinator, responded that ANSWER has in fact been involved in immigration in the long term, and that \"We are just part of the coalition; we are not spearheading it at all... Whatever the immigrant rights community calls for is what we support.\"\n\nIn August 2007, the DC Department of Public Works claimed that ANSWER broke city ordinances by putting signs, advertising a September 15 antiwar march, on utility boxes and using an adhesive that is difficult to remove. Additionally, the National Park Service, which administers many of the parks in the District of Columbia, claimed that the signs were defacement of federal property and ordered the group to remove the signs or pay for their removal. ANSWER refused to remove the signs, stating that the adhesive used was legal, water-soluble paste and the city's actions were \"politically motivated.\" The group said any fines would be without legal basis, and they would appeal if fines were imposed. ANSWER sued the city in federal court to stop the city from enforcing its laws until it creates a \"constitutionally allowable and non-discriminating system\" for determining the rules on sign posting. An ANSWER spokeswoman stated that they gained support from the publicity and intended to continue to post more posters, stickers, and banners despite the efforts of the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24908064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24908064", "title": "A Field Guide to Australian Birds (Slater)", "text": "A Field Guide to Australian Birds (Slater)\n\nA Field Guide to Australian Birds is a two-volume bird field guide published by Rigby of Adelaide, South Australia, in its Rigby Field Guide series. The first volume (Volume One: Non-Passerines) was issued in 1970, with the second volume (Volume Two: Passerines) appearing in 1974. It was Australia’s first new national bird field guide since the 1931 publication of the first edition of Neville Cayley’s \"What Bird is That?\". It was principally authored by Australian ornithologist, artist and photographer Peter Slater.\n\nThe two volumes are 190 mm high by 130 mm wide. With Volume One, Slater had collaborators who contributed much of the text, while he contributed the text on the Falconiformes and all 64 plates illustrating the bird species. His collaborators were John Calaby, Graeme Chapman, Joseph Forshaw, Harold Frith, Peter Fullagar, Gerry van Tets and Eric Lindgren. Volume Two was essentially all his own work. Individual maps indicate the Australian range of each species.\n\nVolume One was reviewed in the \"Emu\" by Arnold McGill (as A.R. McG.):\n\"Except for Cayley’s \"What Bird is That?\" there has been no readily available publication in which all Australian species are illustrated. Mr P. Slater is now filling a great need. The first part of his work is available and the second will, it is understood, soon be completed. \"A Field Guide to Australian Birds\" has a much wider scope than Cayley’s book. Apart from the continent and Tasmania it covers the political dependencies Norfolk, Lord Howe, Macquarie, Heard, Christmas and Cocos-Keeling Islands. This is commendable; for, often these outposts of the Commonwealth have been sadly neglected ornithologically and for the first time a fully illustrated guide is available, reasonably priced, covering the whole area except the New Guinea region. It is therefore interesting to see included in an Australian book such species as the Ruddy Crake (Christmas Island), Woodhen (Lord Howe), Weka (Macquarie) and even a new family (Sheathbills), which occurs on Heard Island.\"\n\n\"The illustrations throughout are ample and appear well-executed. Of special significance are the outlines of bills of the Procellariiformes, drawn to actual size, thus providing for a direct check with any specimen examined in the hand or found as a beach derelict. Patterns of flight, especially of seabirds, hawks, terns and waders, are also depicted carefully. Allowing for difficulties in reproducing exact colour, the appearance and shades of species are most pleasing. The size of bill of the Red-necked Stint (p.279) is far too long, but care in such matters is widely apparent. Because there might be some confusion in identifying swallows and swifts, the former family has been added after the Coraciidae. The second part of this publication will be as eagerly awaited as was the first. The whole will be a notable contribution to the ornithology of Australia and a very helpful guide to every field-worker.\"\n\nMcGill also reviewed Volume Two when it was published:\n\n\"It is five years since the first volume of this work dealing with the non-passerines became available and most people with ornithological interests in Australia and many overseas possess a copy. Therefore the appearance of this volume on passerines has been eagerly awaited. It completes the work, which many will no doubt compare with Cayley’s long-standing best-seller, \"What Bird is That?\" However, because of different style in the illustrations, the gap between them of over forty years and particularly the different order of presentation of species fair comparison is difficult. Slater’s work bears closer affinity with Macdonald’s \"Birds of Australia\" (1973), although the latter is more of a handbook than a field guide.\"\n\"My copy of this guide to Australian passerines (which has noticeably fewer pages and is more strongly bound than the non-passerine volume) will remain a valued possession and I will often wish to consult it. Instead of endeavouring to weigh its merits against some predecessors, I know that it contains data not available in \"What Bird is That?\" and \"Birds of Australia\". It will take its place beside those two books and its non-passerine partner as a worthy addition to my library.\"\nNo revised and updated edition of the guide was ever issued. However, in 1986 Slater produced, in collaboration with other members of his family, the completely new, one-volume \"Slater Field Guide to Australian Birds\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53748026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53748026", "title": "Amos Bull House", "text": "Amos Bull House\n\nThe Amos Bull House is a historic house at 59 South Prospect Street in Hartford, Connecticut. Built about 1788, it is one of only a few surviving 18th-century buildings in the city. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1968. It presently houses the main offices of Connecticut Landmarks, a historic preservation organization.\n\nThe Amos Bull House stands just south of the Pulaski Mall, south of Downtown Hartford, on the west side of South Prospect Street. This is not the house's original location, which was a short way west on Main Street; it has been moved twice. It is a 2-1/2 story brick building with a gambrel roof. It is three bays wide, with the main entrance in the leftmost bay. Openings on the front facade are rectangular, and topped by splayed brownstone lintels. The front cornice is adorned with dentil moulding, a detail repeated in gabled dormers projecting from the roof. On the exposed side elevation there is a small sash window in a peaked-gable opening in the gable area, with a smaller half-round window above it just below the roof ridge. The interior only retains a few traces of its 18th-century origin.\n\nThe house's exact construction date is unknown. It was standing by 1791, when Amos Bull advertised his dry goods business from its address. Since he sold it in 1820, it has housed a variety of commercial enterprises. Originally located facing Main Street, it was moved back from the sidewalk in the early 20th century, and was later moved across the block to its present location.\n\n"}
{"id": "10475530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10475530", "title": "Angelo Savoldi", "text": "Angelo Savoldi\n\nMario Louis Fornini, Sr. (April 21, 1914 – September 20, 2013) was an American professional wrestler and wrestling promoter, better known professionally as Angelo Savoldi. At the time of his death, he was known as the world's oldest retired wrestler at the age of 99.\n\nFornini was born in Castrocielo, Italy in 1914. At the age of five, he and his family moved to the United States, where they lived in Hoboken, New Jersey. As a child, Fornini was reportedly friends with Frank Sinatra. He first began to wrestle at Demarest High School, but left during the Great Depression to get a job cutting metal at the Cleveland Container.\n\nFornini's brother Lou was a professional wrestler in New York, and so Fornini approached New York promoter Jack Pfefer. Pfefer christened him \"Angelo Savoldi\", and, billed as the brother of Joe Savoldi, he began wrestling in 1937. By 1938, Savoldi was regularly wrestling throughout the Northeastern United States. During World War II, Fornini joined the United States Navy. He later worked in Puerto Rico, becoming the first American to main event in that region.\n\nIt was in the 1950s that Savoldi became a star in the Oklahoma region, as a junior heavyweight (a term for lightweight). Wrestling as a heel (villainous character), he held the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship three times between 1958 and 1964. In Oklahoma, Savoldi feuded with Danny Hodge. On May 27, 1960, Savoldi and Hodge were facing off in a match, when Savoldi was stabbed with a pen knife by an angry fan that turned out to be Hodge's father.\n\nSavoldi finished his in-ring career with the World Wide Wrestling Federation (now World Wrestling Entertainment) putting over the promotion's faces. He was also a trainer of younger wrestlers, with Jack Brisco and Hercules Ayala Cortez among them. In the 1970s Savoldi was a minority business partner in the WWWF.\n\nIn 1984 Angelo, with his sons Mario, Tom and Joseph Savoldi, established International Championship Wrestling (ICW) in the Northeastern region. Joseph was a featured wrestler for the promotion. Angelo received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Cauliflower Alley Club in 2003, and was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\nFornini and his wife were married for 74 years, and had four sons. They lived in Parsippany, New Jersey, where Fornini owned a record shop with his son Mario.\n\nFornini died at his home on September 20, 2013, at the age of 99. On the September 23, 2013, episode of \"WWE Raw\", a short \"in memoriam\" video narrated by Vince McMahon was aired.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40256522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40256522", "title": "Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques", "text": "Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques\n\nThe Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques (French: Association des Cinémathèques Européennes - ACE ) is an affiliation of 44 European national and regional film archives founded in 1991. Its role is to safeguard the European film heritage and make this rich audiovisual records collected and preserved by the various film archives accessible to the public. ACE is a regional branch of FIAF Fédération Internationale des Archives du Film / International Federation of Film Archives. ACE members are non-profit institutions committed to the FIAF Code of Ethics.\n\nEuropean film archives have been collecting, preserving, and restoring films and other materials relating to films since the 1930s. The collections range from pre-cinema apparatus to digital cinema files, all of which require specific methods, techniques and an extensive knowledge of film history for preservation.\n\nIn 1991, representatives of the most important European film archives came together to create LUMIERE, a pan-European film restoration project. It was the first large-scale film restoration project funded by the MEDIA I Programme of the European community. The LUMIERE project lasted between 1991 and 1996, during which more than 1000 film titles were preserved and restored, 700 films were re-discovered and identified and a Joint European Filmography (JEF) was established.\n\nACE started in 1991 as the Association des Cinémathèques de la Communauté Européenne (ACE). After the end of the LUMIERE project in 1996, ACE began its active role in raising awareness of the cultural and economic value of European film heritage among policy makers and the audiovisual industry. Operating on the European level, ACE represents the interest of its members to the European Union. It works to support and improve the economic and legal conditions, as well as technical and scientific research for digitization and long-term film preservation.\n\nArhiva Națională de Filme (Bucharest), British Film Institute (London), Bundesarchiv-Filmarchiv (Berlin), Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia - Cineteca Nazionale (Rome), Cinemateca Portuguesa (Lisbon), Cinémathèque Royale de Belgique/Koninklijk Belgisch Filmarchief (Brussels), Cinémathèque suisse (Lausanne), CNC - Archives Françaises du Film / National Center of Cinematography and the moving image (Bois d'Arcy), Crnogorska Kinoteka (Podgorica), CulturArts Generalitat - Unidad de Audiovisual y Cinematografía (Valencia), Det Danske Filminstitut (Copenhagen), Deutsche Kinemathek - Museum für Film und Fernsehen (Berlin), Deutsches Filminstitut (Frankfurt), Eye Film Institute Netherlands (Amsterdam), Filmarchiv Austria (Vienna), Filmmuseum München (Germany), Filmoteca de Catalunya (Barcelona), Filmoteca Española (Madrid), Filmoteca Vaticana /Vatican Film Library (Vatican City), Filmoteka Narodowa (Warsaw), Fondazione Cineteca di Bologna (Bologna), Fondazione Cineteca Italiana (Milan), Gosfilmofond (Moscow), Hrvatska kinoteka / Croatian Film Archive (Zagreb), Imperial War Museum (London), Irish Film Archive (Dublin), Jugoslovenska Kinoteka (Belgrade), Kansallinnen Audiovisuaalinen Instituutti / National Audiovisual Institute (Helsinki), Kinoteka na Makedonija (Skopje), La Cineteca del Friuli (Gemona), La Cinémathèque da la Ville de Luxembourg (Luxembourg), La Cinémathèque de Toulouse (Toulouse), Lichtspiel - Kinemathek Bern (Bern), La Cinémathèque Française (Paris), MaNDA - Hungarian National Digital Archive (Budapest), Museo Nazionale del Cinema (Turin), Národní filmový archiv (Prague), Nasjonalbiblioteket (Oslo), Norsk filminstitutt / Norwegian Film Institute (Oslo), Österreichisches Filmmuseum (Vienna), Slovenski filmski arhiv (Ljubljana), Slovenska Kinoteka (Ljubljana), Swenska Filminstitutet / Swedish Film Institute (Stockholm), Tainiothiki tis Ellados - Greek Film Archive (Athens).\n\nThe European Commission directly supports efforts to protect Europe's film heritage. The legal basis for action is Article 167 of the TFEU (Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), which encourages member states to support the conservation and safeguard of the cultural heritage, including film heritage. The Film Heritage Recommendation 2005 invites the member states to systematically collect, catalogue, preserve and restore Europe's film heritage.\n\nACE has initiated several film heritage projects funded by the European Union:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9954026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954026", "title": "Billhead", "text": "Billhead\n\nBillhead receipts are receipts that were commonly used in business transactions from the late 1860s through the early 1940s. They can be found in present-day transactions, although they are less common today.\n\nMany billhead receipts were illustrated and decorated with fancy steel engravings, while others carried no illustrations. In either case, the receipt was important, as it stood as your proof of delivery. Most billheads would bear the company's name and address, a unique invoice number, the payment terms, line items for products or services, a total, and (optionally) handwritten notes.\n\nBillheads are considered to be vintage ephemera. Some collect billheads from a certain state, region, or town; others base their collections on types of illustrations. In some cases, a relative or ancestor may have owned the business or even have signed the document.\n"}
{"id": "36762951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36762951", "title": "Chronicle P", "text": "Chronicle P\n\nChronicle P, known as \"Chronicle 22\" in Grayson’s \"Assyrian and Babylonian Chronicles\" and \"Mesopotamian Chronicle 45\": “Chronicle of the Kassite Kings” in Glassner’s Mesopotamian Chronicles is named for T. G. Pinches, the first editor of the text. It is a chronicle of the second half of the second millennium BC or the Kassite period, written by a first millennium BC Babylonian scribe.\n\nThe chronicle is preserved on a single fragment 180 mm wide and 120 mm long and is in fairly poor condition. It is the lower third of what was originally a large clay tablet inscribed with two columns of Akkadian cuneiform per side, and is held in the British Museum, now bearing the museum reference BM 92701. Its provenance is unknown but the internal evidence from the script characteristics betrays it to be a late Babylonian copy. It was purchased by the museum from Spartali & Co in 1882 and originally given the accession number 82-7-4, 38.\n\nThe text is episodic, divided by horizontal lines into sections of differing length concerning the events of particular reigns. The narrative style switches from classic chronicler to epic poem when describing the events of the reign of Kurigalzu II, suggesting more than one historical source was consulted in its preparation. Although the section concerning the deposing of the grandson of Aššur-uballiṭ I differs from the Assyrian \"Synchronistic History\" with respect to the names of the characters concerned, the identical phraseology suggests that the passages derive ultimately from a common source. Similarly, the section relating to Kurigalzu II and the battle of Sugagu varies only in the name of his Assyrian counterpart and the outcome of the battle.\n\nThe narrative begins with discussion of a treaty and some form of restoration work, but the identity of the protagonist (Burna-Buriyåš I?) is lost. It continues with a passage concerning Kadašman-Ḫarbe I that has been interpreted as a confusion of the history of this earlier king with that of Kara-ḫardaš, the short-lived successor to Burna-Buriaš II. Kurigalzu’s victory against the Elamites is likewise thought to confuse the campaign of Kurigalzu I with his later namesake. The history then hops to the events surrounding Tukulti-Ninurta’s conquest of Babylonia, providing the only extant confirmation of his seven year rule through governors. It records the revolt which placed Adad-šuma-uṣur on the throne and then describes the events surrounding Tukulti-Ninurta’s overthrow (by Aššur-nasir-apli, probably a reproduction of the error for Aššūr-nādin-apli on some copies of the Assyrian King List). The text concludes with two sections about the incursions of Elamite king Kidin-Ḫudrudiš, thought to represent Kidin-Hutran, against the Kassite monarchs Enlil-nādin-šumi and Adad-šuma-iddina, kings recorded as \"preceding\" Adad-šuma-uṣur on the Babylonian king list\n\nThe text is insufficiently preserved for it to be possible to ascertain its intended purpose. It contains a number of scribal errors, but, in marked contrast to the \"Synchronistic History\", it portrays Babylonian setbacks as matter of fact alongside their victories, which has led some modern historians to praise its impartiality, despite its apparent muddling of historical events.\n\nDespite its fragmentary state, the text has been published by scholars in the following publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "5874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874", "title": "Claudine (book series)", "text": "Claudine (book series)\n\nThe Claudine series consists of four early novels by the French author Colette, published 1900–1904. Written in diary form, they describe the growth to maturity of a young girl, Claudine. Aged fifteen at the beginning of the first book, \"Claudine à l'école\", the series describes her education and experiences as she grows up. All the books are written in first-person with the first three having Claudine herself as the narrator. The last in the series, \"Claudine s'en va\", introduces a new narrator, Annie.\n\nThe novels were written in the late 19th century in collaboration with Colette's first husband, the writer Henry Gauthier-Villars, better known by his nom-de-plume \"Willy\". There has been much speculation over the degree of involvement of both Colette and Willy in the writing of the Claudine novels, particularly as Willy was known for often using ghostwriters. Consequently, although the novels were originally attributed to Willy only and published under his name alone, they were later published under both names. After the death of Willy, Colette went to court to challenge her former husband's involvement in any of the writing, and subsequently had his name removed from the books. This decision however was overturned after her death, as Willy's son from a prior relationship, Jacques Gauthier-Villars, successfully sued to have his father's name restored.\n\nThe \"Claudine\" novels are thought to be roughly autobiographical. Whilst the stories were shocking in their time, this affectionate portrayal of a forthright and self-assured French girl who blossoms into a charismatic adult is nowadays more likely to be regarded as chastely sensual.\n\n"}
{"id": "994442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994442", "title": "Collaborative International Dictionary of English", "text": "Collaborative International Dictionary of English\n\nThe Collaborative International Dictionary of English (CIDE) was derived from the 1913 \"Webster's Dictionary\" and has been supplemented with some of the definitions from WordNet. It is being proof-read and supplemented by volunteers from around the world.\n\nThis electronic dictionary is also made available as a potential starting point for development of a modern comprehensive encyclopedic dictionary, to be accessible freely on the Internet, and developed by the efforts of all individuals willing to help build a large and freely available knowledge base.\n\nThere are several derivative versions of this dictionary on the Internet, in some cases reformatted or provided with an interface:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54000525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54000525", "title": "Comparative army officer ranks of Africa", "text": "Comparative army officer ranks of Africa\n\nRank comparison chart of armies/ land forces of African states.\n\n"}
{"id": "352939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352939", "title": "Comparative literature", "text": "Comparative literature\n\nComparative literature is an academic field dealing with the study of literature and cultural expression across linguistic, national, and disciplinary boundaries. Comparative literature \"performs a role similar to that of the study of international relations, but works with languages and artistic traditions, so as to understand cultures 'from the inside'\". While most frequently practiced with works of different languages, comparative literature may also be performed on works of the same language if the works originate from different nations or cultures among which that language is spoken.\n\nThe characteristically intercultural and transnational field of comparative literature concerns itself with the relation between literature, broadly defined, and other spheres of human activity, including history, politics, philosophy, art, and science. Unlike other forms of literary study, comparative literature places its emphasis on the interdisciplinary analysis of social and cultural production within the \"economy, political dynamics, cultural movements, historical shifts, religious differences, the urban environment, international relations, public policy, and the sciences\".\n\nStudents and instructors in the field, usually called \"comparatists\", have traditionally been proficient in several languages and acquainted with the literary traditions, literary criticism, and major literary texts of those languages. Many of the newer sub-fields, however, are more influenced by critical theory and literary theory, stressing theoretical acumen and the ability to consider different types of art concurrently, over proficiency in multiple languages.\n\nThe interdisciplinary nature of the field means that comparatists typically exhibit acquaintance with sociology, history, anthropology, translation studies, critical theory, cultural studies, and religious studies. As a result, comparative literature programs within universities may be designed by scholars drawn from several such departments. This eclecticism has led critics (from within and without) to charge that Comparative Literature is insufficiently well-defined, or that comparatists too easily fall into dilettantism, because the scope of their work is, of necessity, broad. Some question whether this breadth affects the ability of Ph.D.s to find employment in the highly specialized environment of academia and the career market at large, although such concerns do not seem to be borne out by placement data that shows comparative literature graduates to be hired at similar or higher rates than their peers in English.\n\nThe terms \"comparative literature\" and \"world literature\" are often used to designate a similar course of study and scholarship. Comparative Literature is the more widely used term in the United States, with many universities having Comparative Literature departments or Comparative Literature programs.\n\nComparative literature is an interdisciplinary field whose practitioners study literature across national borders, across time periods, across languages, across genres, across boundaries between literature and the other arts (music, painting, dance, film, etc.), across disciplines (literature and psychology, philosophy, science, history, architecture, sociology, politics, etc.). Defined most broadly, comparative literature is the study of \"literature without borders\". Scholarship in comparative literature include, for example, studying literacy and social status in the Americas, studying medieval epic and romance, studying the links of literature to folklore and mythology, studying colonial and postcolonial writings in different parts of the world, asking fundamental questions about definitions of literature itself. What scholars in comparative literature share is a desire to study literature beyond national boundaries and an interest in languages so that they can read foreign texts in their original form. Many comparatists also share the desire to integrate literary experience with other cultural phenomena such as historical change, philosophical concepts, and social movements.\n\nThe discipline of comparative literature has scholarly associations such as the ICLA: International Comparative Literature Association and comparative literature associations exists in many countries: for a list of such see BCLA: British Comparative Literature Association; for the US, see ACLA: American Comparative Literature Association. There are many learned journals that publish scholarship in comparative literature: see \"Selected Comparative Literature and Comparative Humanities Journals\" \nand for a list of books in comparative literature see \"Bibliography of (Text)Books in Comparative Literature\".\n\nWork considered foundational to the discipline of comparative literature include Transylvanian Hungarian Hugo Meltzl de Lomnitz's scholarship, also the founding editor of the journal \"Acta Comparationis Litterarum Universarum\" (1877) and Irish scholar H.M. Posnett's \"Comparative Literature\" (1886). However, antecedents can be found in the ideas of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in his vision of \"world literature\" (\"Weltliteratur)\" and Russian Formalists credited Alexander Veselovsky with laying the groundwork for the discipline. Viktor Zhirmunsky, for instance, referred to Veselovsky as \"the most remarkable representative of comparative literary study in Russian and European scholarship of the nineteenth century\" (Zhirmunsky qtd. in Rachel Polonsky, \"English Literature and the Russian Aesthetic Renaissance\" [Cambridge UP, 1998. 17]; see also David Damrosch\nDuring the late 19th century, comparatists such as Fyodor Buslaev were chiefly concerned with deducing the purported Zeitgeist or \"spirit of the times\", which they assumed to be embodied in the literary output of each nation. Although many comparative works from this period would be judged chauvinistic, Eurocentric, or even racist by present-day standards, the intention of most scholars during this period was to increase the understanding of other cultures, not to assert superiority over them (although politicians and others from outside the field sometimes used their works for this purpose).\n\nFrom the early part of the 20th century until WWII, the field was characterised by a notably empiricist and positivist approach, termed the \"French School\", in which scholars examined works forensically, looking for evidence of \"origins\" and \"influences\" between works from different nations. Thus a scholar might attempt to trace how a particular literary idea or motif traveled between nations over time. In the French School of Comparative Literature, the study of influences and mentalities dominates. Today, the French School practices the nation-state approach of the discipline although it also promotes the approach of a \"European Comparative Literature\".\n\nLike the French School, German Comparative Literature has its origins in the late 19th century. After World War II, the discipline developed to a large extent owing to one scholar in particular, Peter Szondi (1929–1971), a Hungarian who taught at the Free University Berlin. Szondi's work in Allgemeine und Vergleichende Literaturwissenschaft (German for \"General and Comparative Literary Studies\") included the genre of drama, lyric (in particular hermetic) poetry, and hermeneutics: \"Szondi's vision of Allgemeine und Vergleichende Literaturwissenschaft became evident in both his policy of inviting international guest speakers to Berlin and his introductions to their talks. Szondi welcomed, among others, Jacques Derrida (before he attained worldwide recognition), Pierre Bourdieu and Lucien Goldman from France, Paul de Man from Zürich, Gershom Sholem from Jerusalem, Theodor W. Adorno from Frankfurt, Hans Robert Jauss from the then young University of Konstanz, and from the US René Wellek, Geoffrey Hartman and Peter Demetz (all at Yale), along with the liberal publicist Lionel Trilling. The names of these visiting scholars, who form a programmatic network and a methodological canon, epitomise Szondi's conception of comparative literature. German comparatists working in East Germany, however, were not invited, nor were recognised colleagues from France or the Netherlands. Yet while he was oriented towards the West and the new allies of West Germany and paid little attention to comparatists in Eastern Europe, his conception of a transnational (and transatlantic) comparative literature was very much influenced by East European literary theorists of the Russian and Prague schools of structuralism, from whose works René Wellek, too, derived many of his concepts, concepts that continue to have profound implications for comparative literary theory today\" ... A manual published by the department of comparative literature at the LMU Munich lists 31 German departments which offer a diploma in comparative literature in Germany, albeit some only as a 'minor'. These are: Augsburg, Bayreuth, Free University Berlin, Technical University Berlin, Bochum, Bonn, Chemnitz-Zwickau, Erfurt, Erlangen-Nürnberg, Essen, Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt an der Oder, Gießen, Göttingen, Jena, Karlsruhe, Kassel, Konstanz, Leipzig, Mainz, München, Münster, Osnabrück, Paderborn, Potsdam, Rostock, Saarbrücken, Siegen, Stuttgart, Tübingen, Wuppertal. (Der kleine Komparatist [2003]). This situation is undergoing rapid change, however, since many universities are adapting to the new requirements of the recently introduced Bachelor and Master of Arts. German comparative literature is being squeezed by the traditional philologies on the one hand and more vocational programmes of study on the other which seek to offer students the practical knowledge they need for the working world (e.g., 'Applied Literature'). With German universities no longer educating their students primarily for an academic market, the necessity of a more vocational approach is becoming ever more evident\".\n\nReacting to the French School, postwar scholars, collectively termed the \"American School\", sought to return the field to matters more directly concerned with literary criticism, de-emphasising the detective work and detailed historical research that the French School had demanded. The American School was more closely aligned with the original internationalist visions of Goethe and Posnett (arguably reflecting the postwar desire for international cooperation), looking for examples of universal human \"truths\" based on the literary archetypes that appeared throughout literatures from all times and places.\n\nPrior to the advent of the American School, the scope of comparative literature in the West was typically limited to the literatures of Western Europe and Anglo-America, predominantly literature in English, German and French literature, with occasional forays into Italian literature (primarily for Dante) and Spanish literature (primarily for Cervantes). One monument to the approach of this period is Erich Auerbach's book \"\", a survey of techniques of realism in texts whose origins span several continents and three thousand years.\n\nThe approach of the American School would be familiar to current practitioners of cultural studies and is even claimed by some to be the forerunner of the Cultural Studies boom in universities during the 1970s and 1980s. The field today is highly diverse: for example, comparatists routinely study Chinese literature, Arabic literature and the literatures of most other major world languages and regions as well as English and continental European literatures.\n\nThere is a movement among comparativists in the United States and elsewhere to re-focus the discipline away from the nation-based approach with which it has previously been associated towards a cross-cultural approach that pays no heed to national borders. Works of this nature include Alamgir Hashmi's \"The Commonwealth, Comparative Literature and the World\", Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak's \"Death of a Discipline\", David Damrosch's \"What is World Literature?\", Steven Tötösy de Zepetnek's concept of \"comparative cultural studies\", and Pascale Casanova's \"The World Republic of Letters\". It remains to be seen whether this approach will prove successful given that comparative literature had its roots in nation-based thinking and much of the literature under study still concerns issues of the nation-state. Given developments in the studies of globalization and interculturalism, comparative literature, already representing a wider study than the single-language nation-state approach, may be well suited to move away from the paradigm of the nation-state. While in the West comparative literature is experiencing institutional constriction, there are signs that in many parts of the world the discipline is thriving, especially in Asia, Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Mediterranean. Current trends in Transnational studies also reflect the growing importance of post-colonial literary figures such as Giannina Braschi, J. M. Coetzee, Maryse Condé, Earl Lovelace, V. S. Naipaul, Michael Ondaatje, Wole Soyinka, Derek Walcott, and Lasana M. Sekou. For recent post-colonial studies in North America see George Elliott Clarke. \"Directions Home: Approaches to African-Canadian Literature\". (University of Toronto Press, 2011), Joseph Pivato. \"Echo: Essays in Other Literatures\". (Guernica Editions, 2003), and \"The Sherbrooke School of Comparative Canadian Literature\". (\"Inquire\", 2011).\nIn the area of comparative studies of literature and the other arts see Linda Hutcheon's work on Opera and her \"A Theory of Adaptation\". 2nd. ed. (Routledge, 2012).\nCanadian scholar Joseph Pivato is carrying on a campaign to revitalize comparative study with his book, \"Comparative Literature for the New Century\" eds. Giulia De Gasperi & Joseph Pivato (2018).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10664623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10664623", "title": "Crazy House (1943 film)", "text": "Crazy House (1943 film)\n\nCrazy House is a 1943 comedy film starring Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson as Broadway stars who return to Universal Studios to make another movie. The mere mention of Olsen and Johnson's names evacuates the studio and terrorizes the management and personnel. Undaunted, the comedians hire an assistant director and unknown talent, and set out to make their own movie. Financed by an eccentric \"angel\" (Percy Kilbride), the completed feature is set to premiere when angry creditors confiscate most of the film. Olsen and Johnson keep the preview going, anyway, and their venture is a success.\n\n\"Crazy House\" is notable for its impressive cast of supporting comedians (Percy Kilbride, Cass Daley, Shemp Howard, Edgar Kennedy, Franklin Pangborn, Billy Gilbert, Richard Lane, Andrew Tombes, Chester Clute, and Hans Conried) and guest stars under contract to Universal at the time (Allan Jones, Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce, Robert Paige, Leo Carrillo, Johnny Mack Brown, Andy Devine).\n\n"}
{"id": "41028645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41028645", "title": "Ex parte Van Heerden", "text": "Ex parte Van Heerden\n\nIn Ex parte Van Heerden, an important case in South African insolvency law, “It is necessary,” the court held, “to consider whether the surplus of the proceeds of the immovable property, after satisfying the mortgage bonds which have a preferential claim thereon, can be considered as ‘free residue’ within the meaning of that expression as used in the Act.” The definition of “free residue” must be taken to refer to that portion of an estate under sequestration when liquidated, which is not subject to any right of preference. In estimating the free residue in an estate, the surplus in value of immovable property over the amount of mortgage bonds thereon may be included in such estimate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3624756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3624756", "title": "Exception handling syntax", "text": "Exception handling syntax\n\nException handling syntax is the set of keywords and/or structures provided by a computer programming language to allow exception handling, which separates the handling of errors that arise during a program's operation from its ordinary processes. Syntax for exception handling varies between programming languages, partly to cover semantic differences but largely to fit into each language's overall syntactic structure. Some languages do not call the relevant concept 'exception handling'; others may not have direct facilities for it, but can still provide means to implement it.\n\nMost commonly, error handling uses a codice_1 block, and errors are created via a codice_2 statement, but there is significant variation in naming and syntax.\n\n\nSome_Error : exception;\n\nraise Some_Error;\n\nraise Some_Error with \"Out of memory\"; -- specific diagnostic message\n\nwith Ada.Exceptions, Ada.Text_IO;\n\nprocedure Foo is\nbegin\nexception -- Start of exception handlers\nend Foo;\n\nMost assembly languages will have a macro instruction or an interrupt address available for the particular system to intercept events such as illegal op codes, program check, data errors, overflow, divide by zero, and other such. IBM and Univac mainframes had the STXIT macro. Digital Equipment Corporation RT11 systems had trap vectors for program errors, i/o interrupts, and such. DOS has certain interrupt addresses. Microsoft Windows has specific module calls to trap program errors.\n\nprint_error(){\n echo \"there was an error\"\ntrap print_error exit #list signals to trap\ntempfile=`mktemp`\ntrap \"rm $tempfile\" exit\n./other.sh || echo warning: other failed\necho oops)\necho never printed\nOne can set a trap for multiple errors, responding to any signal with syntax like:\n\nAn \"On Error goto/gosub\" structure is used in BASIC and is quite different from modern exception handling; in BASIC there is only one global handler whereas in modern exception handling, exception handlers are stacked.\nON ERROR GOTO handler\nOPEN \"Somefile.txt\" FOR INPUT AS #1\nCLOSE #1\nPRINT \"File opened successfully\"\nEND\n\nhandler:\nPRINT \"File does not exist\"\nEND ' RESUME may be used instead which returns control to original position.\n\nThe most common way to implement exception handling in standard C is to use setjmp/longjmp functions:\n\n\nenum { SOME_EXCEPTION = 1 } exception;\njmp_buf state;\n\nint main(void)\n\nTwo types exist:\nExample of SEH in C programming language:\n\nint filterExpression (EXCEPTION_POINTERS* ep) {\nint main(void) {\n\npublic static void Main()\nint main() {\n try {\n\nIn C++, a \"resource acquisition is initialization\" technique can be used to clean up resources in exceptional situations. C++ intentionally does not support . The outer braces for the method are optional.\n\n<cfscript>\ntry {\n} catch (any e) {\n} finally { //CF9+\n</cfscript>\nAdobe ColdFusion documentation\n\n<cftry> \n</cftry>\n\nAdobe ColdFusion documentation\n\nAdded to the standard syntax above, CFML dialects of Railo and Lucee allow a codice_3 statement. \n\nThis statement returns processing to the start of the prior codice_4 block.\n\nCFScript example:\n\ntry {\n\n} catch (any e){\n\nTag-syntax example:\n\n<cftry>\n\n</cftry>\nimport std.stdio; // for writefln()\nint main() {\n\nIn D, a clause or the resource acquisition is initialization technique can be used to clean up resources in exceptional situations.\n\n\ntype ECustom = class(Exception) // Exceptions are children of the class Exception.\n\nraise Exception.Create('Message');\n\nraise Exception.CreateFmt('Message with values: %d, %d',[value1, value2]); // See SysUtils.Format() for parameters. \n\nraise ECustom.CreateCustom(X);\n\ntry // For finally.\nfinally\nend;\ntry\ncatch\nafter\nend\n\nHaskell does not have special syntax for exceptions. Instead, a ///. interface is provided by functions.\nimport Prelude hiding(catch)\nimport Control.Exception\ninstance Exception Int\ninstance Exception Double\nmain = do\nprints\n\nin analogy with this C++\nusing namespace std;\nint main()\n\nAnother example is\ndo {\n} `catch` \\ex -> do {\n\nIn purely functional code, if only one error condition exists, the type may be sufficient, and is an instance of Haskell's class by default. More complex error propagation can be achieved using the or monads, for which similar functionality (using ) is supported.\n\ntry {\n} catch (ExampleException ee) {\n} finally {\n\ntry {\n} catch(error) {\n} finally {\n\n(handler-case\n\n(unwind-protect\n\nLua uses the codice_5 and codice_6 functions, with codice_6 taking a function to act as a codice_8 block.\n\nfunction foo(x)\nend\n\nfunction attempt(arg)\n\nend\n\nattempt(\"hello\")\n\nattempt(nil)\n\nattempt({})\nif foo(42) then print \"Success\" end\n\nif pcall(\nthen\nelse\nend\n\nprint \"Done\" -- Will always be executed\n\n\nNSException *exception = [NSException exceptionWithName:@\"myException\"\n\n@throw exception;\n\n@try {\n@catch (SomeException *se) {\n@catch (NSException *ne) {\n\n@catch (id ue) {\n@finally {\nexception MyException of string * int (* exceptions can carry a value *)\nlet _ =\n\nThe Perl mechanism for exception handling uses to throw an exception when wrapped inside an block. After the , the special variable contains the value passed from . However, scoping issues can make doing this correctly quite ugly:\nmy ( $error, $failed );\n\nif ( $failed ) {\n\nPerl 5.005 added the ability to throw objects as well as strings. This allows better introspection and handling of types of exceptions.\neval {\nif ($@) {\nThe pseudo-signal can be trapped to handle calls to . This is not suitable for exception handling since it is global. However it can be used to convert string-based exceptions from third-party packages into objects.\nlocal $SIG{__DIE__} = sub {\n};\nThe forms shown above can sometimes fail if the global variable is changed between when the exception is thrown and when it is checked in the statement. This can happen in multi-threaded environments, or even in single-threaded environments when other code (typically\ncalled in the destruction of some object) resets the global variable before the checking code.\nThe following example shows a way to avoid this problem (see ). But at the cost of not being able to use return values:\neval {\n} or do {\n\nSeveral modules in the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN) expand on the basic mechanism:\n\n// Exception handling is only available in PHP versions 5 and greater.\ntry\ncatch (FirstExceptionClass $exception) \ncatch (SecondExceptionClass $exception) \nfinally\n\nException handling is available in PowerBuilder versions 8.0 and above.\n\ntrap [Exception]\n\nTry {\nCatch [Exception1] {\nCatch [Exception2],[Exception3etc] {\nCatch {\n\nf = None\ntry:\nexcept IOError:\nexcept: # catch all exceptions\nelse: # executed if no exceptions are raised\nfinally: # clean-up actions, always executed\ntryCatch({\n,specialError=function(e){\n,error=function(e){\n\nREBOL [\n\nif error? exception: try [1 / 0][probe disarm exception]\n\nprint attempt [divide 1 0]\n\nexample: func [\"A function to throw an exception\"\ncatch [example]\n\nsophisticated: func [\"A function to throw a named error exception\"\ncatch/name [sophisticated] 'moniker\n signal on halt;\nbegin\nrescue SomeError\nrescue AnotherError => error\nrescue\nelse\nensure\nend\n try \n\nNew exceptions may be created using the function, e.g., \nwill create an exception called as a subclass of . Exceptions may be generated using the throw statement, which can throw arbitrary S-Lang objects.\n\n [ \"code that might throw an exception\" ]\nThe general mechanism is provided by the message . Exceptions are just normal objects that subclass , you throw one by creating an instance and sending it a message, e.g., . The handling mechanism () is again just a normal message implemented by . The thrown exception is passed as a parameter to the handling block closure, and can be queried, as well as potentially sending to it, to allow execution flow to continue.\n\nException handling is supported since Swift 2.\n\nenum MyException : ErrorType {\nfunc someFunc() throws {\ndo {\n} catch MyException.Foo(let s, let i) {\n} catch {\n\nif { [ catch {\n} err ] } {\n\nSince Tcl 8.6, there is also a try command:\n\ntry {\n} on ok {res opt} {\n} trap ListPattern1 {err opt} {\n} trap ListPattern2 {err opt} {\n} on error {err opt} {\n} finally {\n\nWith New Try: On Error Resume Next\n.Catch :On Error GoTo 0: Select Case .Number\nEnd Select: End With\n\n' *** Try Class ***\nClass Try\n\nEnd Class\nWith New Try: On Error Resume Next\n.Catch :On Error GoTo 0: Select Case .Number\nEnd Select: End With\n\n' *** Try Class ***\nPrivate mstrDescription As String\nPrivate mlngHelpContext As Long\nPrivate mstrHelpFile As String\nPrivate mlngLastDllError As Long\nPrivate mlngNumber As Long\nPrivate mstrSource As String\n\nPublic Sub Catch()\nEnd Sub\n\nPublic Property Get Source() As String\nEnd Property\n\nPublic Property Get Number() As Long\nEnd Property\n\nPublic Property Get LastDllError() As Long\nEnd Property\n\nPublic Property Get HelpFile() As String\nEnd Property\n\nPublic Property Get HelpContext() As Long\nEnd Property\n\nPublic Property Get Description() As String\nEnd Property\nTry\nCatch ex As Exception When condition\nCatch ex As ExceptionType\nCatch ex As Exception\nFinally\nEnd Try\n\nhttp://wiki.visual-prolog.com/index.php?title=Language_Reference/Terms#Try-catch-finally\n\ntry\ncatch TraceId do\nfinally\nend try\npublic static void Main(Args _args)\n\n"}
{"id": "13073319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13073319", "title": "Feet of fines", "text": "Feet of fines\n\nA foot of fine (plural, feet of fines; Latin: pes finis; plural, pedes finium) is the archival copy of the agreement between two parties in an English lawsuit over land, most commonly the fictitious suit (in reality a conveyance) known as a fine of lands or final concord. The procedure was followed from \"c\".1195 until 1833, and the considerable body of resulting records is now held at The National Archives, Kew, London.\n\nIn the reign of Henry II of England, the royal justices first began the practice of registering the settlement of disagreements over land by having both parties bring a suit before the royal courts. The resulting decision was thus given \"royal sanction\".\n\nAt first, two copies of the agreement (\"fine\") were made, created as chirographs: i.e. the text was written in duplicate on a single piece of parchment, which was then cut in half, one copy going to each of the litigants. Under Hubert Walter's justiciarship, probably about 1195, the practice was started of writing the text in triplicate, so that a third copy could be filed in the Treasury. This copy of the text was written at the foot of the piece of parchment, and so became known as the \"foot of the fine\", or simply \"foot of fine\".\n\nThe first recorded foot of fine is endorsed with the statement \"This is the first chirograph that was made in the king's court in the form of three chirographs, according to the command of his lordship of Canterbury and other barons of the king, to the end that by this form a record can be made to be passed on to the treasurer to put in the treasury.\" The agreement concerns Walter's brother Theobald, who was the plaintiff.\n\nWithin a few years, the practice of recording feet of fines had spread widely, and even to Scotland, as in 1198 an agreement between William de Bruce of Annandale and Adam of Carlisle over eight ploughgates in Lockerbie, Scotland was filed with the English treasury, recorded with those from Northumberland. While early fines could be made in the Exchequer, after the early 14th century, fines were always made in the Court of Common Pleas.\n\nThe practice survived until fines were abolished by the Fines and Recoveries Act of 1833.\n\nMany feet of fines have been published by antiquarian, text publication and other societies.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45369456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45369456", "title": "FitSM", "text": "FitSM\n\nFitSM is the name for a family of standards for lightweight IT service management (ITSM).\n\nFitSM calls itself a standard, but is not published or managed by an established standards organisation like ISO. \nHowever, in a way very similar to that of many ISO and ISO/IEC standard families, it structures its documents into several numbered parts and defines requirements for an effective service management system in its part 1.\n\nAll parts are published under Creative Common licenses.\n\nA single document containing about 70 definitions of ITSM terms.\n\nA single document containing about 85 auditable requirements for an effective service management system.\nThe requirements are divided into general requirements (GR) and requirements for 14 different service management processes (PR).\nFitSM is similar in scope and style to part 1 of ISO/IEC 20000, but significantly shorter.\n\nA single document containing a description of the goal of each process defined in FitSM-1, as well as a description of activities to initially set up the process and ongoing process activities.\n\nA single document containing descriptions of generic service management system and service management process roles.\n\nA collection of templates and samples for documents needed in a service management system, e.g. SLAs, statement of a service management policy, elements of a service portfolio or service catalogue etc. \n\nA collection of guides on various ITSM topics.\n\nAn Excel-based tool that uses situation descriptions to aid an easy assessment of the maturity of implemented service management processes and general practices.\n\nWhile conformance to FitSM-1 requirements can be audited, there is no certification for conformance. Unlike for ISO/IEC 20000, organizations cannot have their service management system 'FitSM certified'.\n\nA qualification and certification scheme for personnel, much like those established for ITIL and ISO/IEC 20000, but involving fewer and shorter trainings, was started in 2013.\nBy passing an exam, usually in the context of a one-day or two-day training, individuals can achieve several levels of certification, from a \"foundation level\", targeted at all personnel involved, up to an \"expert level\", targeted at process and overall ITSM project managers.\nCertifications are issued by the TÜV SÜD Examination Institute.\n\nFitSM is based on deliverables of FedSM, a project funded in the 7th Framework Program for Research and Technological Development by the European Union.\nThe original aim of FedSM was to \"increase maturity and effectiveness of Service Management in federated e-Infrastructures by applying suitable good practices.\"\n\nHow to establish management processes across federated organizational structures is not considered in traditional ITSM frameworks, and can pose a difficult task when trying to introduce ITSM in E-infrastructures which often distribute the provisioning of services among a federation of peer organizations.\nHowever, a much larger challenge to introducing ITSM at FedSM's client organizations turned out be the adaptation of the very comprehensive ITSM guidance described by traditional ITSM frameworks to a set of practices that could realistically be implemented in relatively small organizations within the project lifetime of three years.\nFrom May 2013, to foster the beginning interest in FedSM's \"lightweight\" ITSM guidance by IT organizations from outside the e-Infrastructure community, the project consortium started publishing revised versions project deliverables under the FitSM name.\n\nThe team members have announced on their project website that the FitSM standard will continue to be maintained in the future within the framework of a working group of IT Education Management Organisation ITEMO.\n"}
{"id": "28579539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28579539", "title": "Flora Lapponica", "text": "Flora Lapponica\n\nFlora Lapponica (Amsterdam, 1737) is an account of the plants of Lapland written by botanist, zoologist and naturalist Carl Linnaeus (1707-1788) following his expedition to Lapland.\n\nOver the period from 12 May 1732 to 10 September 1732, and with a grant from the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala for his journey, Linnaeus was able to combine his interest in medicine with that of natural history to travel for five months in Lapland collecting animals, plants, and minerals.\n\nIn \"Flora Lapponica\" Linnaeus’s ideas about nomenclature and classification were first used in a practical way, making this the first proto-modern flora. The account covered 534 species, used the Linnaean classification system and included, for the described species, geographical distribution and taxonomic notes. It was Augustin Pyramus de Candolle who attributed Linnaeus with \"Flora Lapponica\" as the first example in the botanical genre of Flora writing. Botanical historian E.L. Greene described \"Flora Lapponica\" as “the most classic and delightful of Linnaeus’s writings”.\n\nA Lapland plant, \"Linnaea borealis\", was named by the eminent botanist Jan Frederik Gronovius in commemoration of Linnaeus's achievements. In the \"Critica Botanica\" Linnaeus uses this name to advocate the use of commemorative personal names as botanical names:\n"}
{"id": "2231414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231414", "title": "Haynes Manual", "text": "Haynes Manual\n\nThe Haynes Owner's Workshop Manuals (commonly known as simply Haynes Manuals) are a series of practical manuals from the British publisher Haynes Publishing Group. The series primarily focuses upon the maintenance and repair of automotive vehicles, covering a wide range of makes and models (300 models of car and 130 models of motorcycle); the manuals are aimed mainly at DIY enthusiasts rather than professional garage mechanics, as they lack the depth of coverage on particular vehicles or problems. The series includes manuals in the same style for domestic appliances and personal computers, digital photography, model railways, men and\nbabies,\nsex, and women. The last four were made slightly tongue-in-cheek, but have proved very popular.\n\nAdditionally, Haynes have released manuals based on popular fictional series including \"Star Trek\" and \"Thomas and Friends\".\n\nThe Haynes manuals are named after John Harold Haynes. In 1956, when he was at school, he wrote and published a book on building a 'special' based on the Austin 7, and wrote two further books while performing national service in the Royal Air Force. J. H. Haynes & Co. Limited was founded on 18 May 1960 and the first manual actually entitled \"Haynes Owners Workshop Manual\", for the Austin-Healey Sprite, was published in 1965. Haynes was made an Officer of Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honours List 1995 for services to publishing.\n\nMany Haynes Manuals bear a cover illustration of a cutaway view technical drawing of the vehicle, hand-drawn by Terry Davey, and they bear his signature.\n\nIn 2013, Haynes acquired Clymer repair manuals from Penton Media.\n\nThe automotive vehicle manuals are based upon taking apart and putting together a vehicle. The cover of each manual states: \"based on a complete stripdown and rebuild\". Each section has step-by-step instructions with diagrams and photographs of an actual stripdown or rebuild.\n\nManuals for garage professionals include books such as the \"Automotive Diesel Engine Service Guide\", the \"Automotive Air Conditioning TechBook\", \"Citroën and Peugeot Engine Management Systems\", and two \"Engine Management and Fuel Injection Systems Pin Tables and Wiring Diagrams TechBook\" volumes.\n\nHaynes manuals are published in 15 languages: English (including British, American and Australian variants), French, Swedish, Chinese, Japanese, German, Czech, Finnish, Polish, Bulgarian, Hebrew, Greek, Danish, Spanish (including American Spanish versions), and Russian.\n\nThe company is based in Sparkford, a village near Yeovil in Somerset, England. The Haynes International Motor Museum, the largest motor museum in the UK, is also in Sparkford and it is home to a large collection of both classic and modern cars, and many rarities.\n\nHaynes manuals are written by a pair of authors, and take between 20 and 30 man-weeks. \nA car or motorcycle is bought at the beginning of the project and sold at the end. \nAlthough the workshop phase of the project usually lasts for roughly four weeks, the vehicle is usually retained for a couple of months to ensure it is functioning correctly.\n\nHaynes generally has the co-operation of the manufacturers to provide technical information such as mechanical tolerances and wiring diagrams. This may seem against their own interests since servicing can cost 40% of the cost of the vehicle over its lifetime, but manufacturers get loyalty by providing customers with information that lets them fix their vehicle, to their ability, or at least diagnose the fault before taking it to a garage. \nOver the lifetime of a vehicle, the aftermarket is worth perhaps as much as the new cost price of the vehicle, so the manufacturer still gets a significant revenue from the spare parts, and the longer a vehicle lasts, the more so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1238458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1238458", "title": "How to Irritate People", "text": "How to Irritate People\n\nHow to Irritate People is a 1968 television broadcast written by John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Marty Feldman and Tim Brooke-Taylor. Cleese, Chapman, and Brooke-Taylor also feature in it, along with future Monty Python collaborators Michael Palin and Connie Booth.\n\nIn various sketches, Cleese demonstrates exactly what the title suggests—how to irritate people, although this is done in a much more conventional way than the absurdity of similar Monty Python sketches.\n\nThe \"Job Interview\" sketch, starring Cleese as the interviewer and Brooke-Taylor as the interviewee, was later performed, almost unchanged, in the first season of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" with Chapman as the interviewee.\n\nThe \"Freedom of speech\" sketch, starring Cleese as the host/interviewer and Chapman as interviewee Dr. Rhomboid Goatcabin, features a discussion about freedom of speech in Great Britain, in which Cleese's character repeatedly reformulates the subject's main question (\"Do you believe there is freedom of speech in this country?\") in so many ways as to start a monologue and not let Chapman's character speak. This increasingly annoys the interviewee to the point where he is forced to murder the host in order to express his opinion on the matter, only to be interrupted again by his spirit. This sketch bears some resemblance to Anne Elk's Theory on Brontosauruses and was originally performed on \"At Last the 1948 Show\".\n\nThe \"Car Salesman\" sketch, in which Palin refuses to accept customer Chapman's claim that a car he sold is faulty, later inspired Python's Dead Parrot sketch in which the malfunctioning car is replaced by an expired parrot.\n\nThe \"Quiz Show\" sketch, where Brooke-Taylor, as a Pepperpot, annoys Cleese, a quiz show host, while appearing as a contestant on a show, was later adapted into another Monty Python's Flying Circus sketch, \"Take Your Pick\" in episode 20, where Terry Jones plays the contestant attempting to win the prize of a \"blow on the head.\"\n\nThe \"Airline Pilots\" sketch is set in the cockpit of a commercial airliner, with Cleese (as captain) and Chapman (as copilot). The airliner is on autopilot. Bored, they start making reassuring intercom messages to the passengers telling them there is nothing to worry about – at which point, of course, the passengers get worried – aided by the flight attendant (Palin). These messages get continually more incomprehensible or mutually contradictory until eventually all the passengers bail out. The Monty Python sketch \"Bomb on Plane\" in episode 35 alluded briefly to this sketch when pilot Michael Palin told passengers, \"Our destination is Glasgow; there is no need to panic.\"\n\nThe recurring characters of the \"Pepperpots\", the old British housewives that exist solely to annoy theater-goers and quiz show hosts, would go on to be a major part of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\", appearing in almost every episode of the show.\n\nThis film was directed by Ian Fordyce who also directed \"At Last the 1948 Show\", and was made in the UK for the American market in an attempt to introduce them to the new style of British humour. For this reason the recording is made to the NTSC colour standard. The idea for the show came from David Frost.\n\nIt appears the show was never broadcast in the UK, but was first broadcast in the United States on 21 January 1969. Contemporary reviews suggest a broadcast slot of 60 minutes, including commercials, which would make the version broadcast between 50 and 55 minutes, at least 10 minutes shorter than the current video release. In addition, reviews refer to David Frost as appearing in the show, whereas he is absent from the video version. An audio track confirms that he originally introduced the show. Michael Palin has also referred to the show being 'tightened up' for the video release.\n\nThe show has appeared on DVD, sometimes with \"irritating\" backward packaging and deliberately faulty navigation - an example of this is the 2002 Sanctuary Visual Entertainment release (Catalogue no. SDF2020); the sleeve has the front image on the back and vice versa - the menu in the disc changes every time an option is selected, and needs to be pressed several times. Originally produced in NTSC, the conversion to PAL did not give a very good quality of the colours.\n\n"}
{"id": "1416840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416840", "title": "Ioachim Chronicle", "text": "Ioachim Chronicle\n\nThe Ioachim Chronicle (ru: Иоакимовская Летопись), also spelled Joachim or Ioakim) is a chronicle discovered by the Russian historian Vasily Tatishchev in the 18th century. The chronicle is believed to be a 17th-century compilation of earlier sources describing events in the 10th and 11th centuries concerning the Novgorod Republic and Kievan Rus'.\n\nThe original chronicle was lost and the contents are known through Tatishchev's \"History of Russia\" (История Российская), although Tatishchev's historiograph is dubious since his later edition of his history or Russia is much more detailed than his earlier edition and is based on sources no longer, and some say never, extant. Indeed, Tatishchev's sources are so problematic, that Iakov Solomonovich Lur'e wrote of \"'Tatishchev information' (data found only in that historian.)\" Be that as it may, Tatishchev concluded that the chronicle was written by Joachim the Korsunian, the first bishop of Novgorod the Great (ca. 988-1030). More recent studies indicate that the chronicle was more likely compiled by the Patriarch Joachim of Moscow (d. 1690).\n"}
{"id": "12686962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686962", "title": "Joseph Campbell Foundation", "text": "Joseph Campbell Foundation\n\nThe Joseph Campbell Foundation is a US not-for-profit organization dedicated to preserve, protect and perpetuate the work of influential American mythologist Joseph Campbell (1904–1987). It fosters academic and popular discussion in the fields of comparative mythology and religion, psychology and culture through its publishing program, events, local groups (Mythological RoundTable groups) and its internet presence.\n\nThe foundation was created in 1991 by Campbell's widow, choreographer Jean Erdman, and by his longtime editor Robert Walter, who is the foundation's president.\n\nAmong the initiatives undertaken by the JCF are: \n\n"}
{"id": "28856367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28856367", "title": "Kallias-Briefe", "text": "Kallias-Briefe\n\nThe Kallias-Briefen was a collection made by Schiller of his thoughts on beauty from his correspondence with his friend Christian Gottfried Körner. He planned to turn them into a major treatise entitled \"Kallias oder Über die Schönheit\" but in the end did not have time to do so.\n"}
{"id": "24628980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24628980", "title": "Know Your Meme", "text": "Know Your Meme\n\nKnow Your Meme (KYM) is a website and video series which uses wiki software to document various Internet memes and other online phenomena, such as viral videos, image macros, catchphrases, internet celebrities and more. It also investigates new and changing memes through research, as it commercializes on the culture. Originally produced by Rocketboom, the website was acquired in March 2011 by Cheezburger Network. Know Your Meme includes sections for confirmed, submitted, deadpooled (rejected or incompletely documented), researching, and popular memes.\n\nThe Know Your Meme project started in September 2007, as a recurring segment inside of the Rocketboom video series and a wiki destination site to support the documentation of Internet memes. Created by Kenyatta Cheese, Elspeth Rountree, Jamie Wilkinson and Andrew Baron, \"meme experts\" in white lab coats used a scientific laboratory metaphor for analyzing and deconstructing the top memes of the day; anyone with an account could use the website to explore and contribute to meme research. At the end of 2008, after more than a year of growth, Rocketboom released an expanded database with Jamie Wilkinson as the lead developer. As of January 2017, the database contained more than 2,700 entries of \"confirmed\" memes.\n\nThe administrators have a say on what gets confirmed and what gets \"Deadpooled\" or rejected. Some of the meme entries are graphic and Not Safe For Work (NSFW). NSFW entries have warnings placed along the top of the entry and ads are usually disabled. These warnings may differ from consequences, such as bans. Know Your Meme also has a forum section, blog, and shop. Dr. Sean Rintel, who wrote \"The Automated Identity\" blog, described Know Your Meme as \"lucrative, self-supporting research that blends the humorous and the serious.\" As of July 2016, the site is maintained by five editorial staff members (Brad Kim, Don Caldwell, Adam Downer, Matt Schimkowitz and Briana Milman) and one developer (James Wu) in conjunction with a group of dedicated moderators. Former staff researchers include Chris Menning, Amanda Brennan, Molly Horan and Ari Spool.\n\nThe Know Your Meme website and web series were acquired in March 2011 by Cheezburger Network for an undisclosed seven-figure amount.\n\nEpisodes of the Know Your Meme show average a few minutes in length each. In a given episode, the KYM staff describe memes and the history behind them. New episodes appear in irregular intervals of time. Breaking meme episodes started in 2010. Separated in seasons, the videos describe the meme using handy images.\n\nBeginning with the 2011 season, the cast of the episodes changed from the original cast (Jamie Dubs, Yatta, Elspethjane, Patrick Davison and Mike Rugnetta) to Forest Gibson and Kristina Horner. \nKristina Horner left the show in early 2012 and starting with the Ermahgerd episode in August 2012, the cast of internet scientists expanded to Forest Gibson, Sarah Hiraki, Alison Luhrs and Rob Whitehead.\nIn 2017, a new season that was renamed \"Know Your Meme 101\" began airing. Many episodes star two hosts being two of these four: Brian Colbert Kennedy, Katie Molinaro, Eric Bellows, and Jon Allen. All episodes narrated by Tucker Maloney, written by William Applegate Jr. The pilot up to episode 7 edited by Lindsay Penn, while episode 8 gave the edit credit to Connel Post Production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39415346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39415346", "title": "Les sept âges du monde", "text": "Les sept âges du monde\n\nLes sept âges du monde (c. 1460) is an illustrated manuscript on the theme of the Seven ages of the world from the workshop of Jacques Pilavaine of Mons, now Brussels (Bibl. Roy., Ms. 9047). It was in the nineteenth century incorrectly attributed to Simon Marmion of Amiens.\n"}
{"id": "1657479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657479", "title": "List of acronyms: E", "text": "List of acronyms: E\n\n\n\n\nEB- East Bridgewater\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616729", "title": "List of reporting marks: I", "text": "List of reporting marks: I\n\n"}
{"id": "349143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349143", "title": "List of web directories", "text": "List of web directories\n\nA Web directory is a listing of Web sites organized in a hierarchy or interconnected list of categories.\n\nThe following is a list of notable Web directory services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42601155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42601155", "title": "Lutzelfrau", "text": "Lutzelfrau\n\nLutzelfrau is a witch in German folklore who gives gifts — particularly apples, nuts and dried plums — to children on Saint Lucy's Day (December 13). \"Lutzelfrau\" customs are also common in Slovenia and Croatia, where a \"dark Luz\" was contrasted to the Christian saint. \n"}
{"id": "5139111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139111", "title": "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's letter to George W. Bush", "text": "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's letter to George W. Bush\n\nOn May 8, 2006, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sent a missive directly to then United States President George W. Bush that proposed \"new ways\" to end the dispute over the Islamic Republic's development of nuclear power.\n\nU.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley both reviewed the letter and considered it to be a broad, historic look at the U.S.-Iranian relationship. It was the first direct contact between the American and Iranian heads of state since April 9, 1980.\n\nDuring his joint press conference with then-United Kingdom Prime Minister Tony Blair at the White House in May 2006, Bush said,\"Well, I read the letter of the President and I thought it was interesting. It was, like, 16 or 17 single-spaced typed pages of -- but he didn't address the issue of whether or not they're going to continue to press for a nuclear weapon. That's the issue at hand.\"\n\nThe letter achieved more positive press coverage, particularly in non-Iranian media, than President Ahmadinejad had received before. With Western powers unable to reach agreement about a United Nations Security Council resolution on Iran's nuclear program, \"The Washington Post\" said Ahmadinejad's 18-page letter (originally in Persian) promoted the idea that Iran was open to compromise at a time when the rest of the world was divided.\n\nThe letter, the first written communication between the leaders of the two countries in 27 years, criticized Bush for the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, detainee abuse in U.S.-run facilities at Cuba's Guantanamo Bay Naval Base detention center and Iraq's Abu Ghraib prison, and his support of Israel. \n\nIn his letter, Ahmadinejad repeatedly praised Jesus, as well as other figures considered by Muslims to be prophets. He also referred respectfully twice to Moses. He stated his belief that one who claims to follow the teachings of Jesus should not be waging war.\n\nAhmedinejad also questioned whether Bush could claim to follow Jesus and at the same time invade and occupy countries, kill people, and destroy their homes in the name of democracy.\n\nAt one point Ahmadinejad rhetorically asks whether there was infiltration of security services in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and why aspects have been kept secret (paragraph 28).\n\nThe letter received various reactions. \"Regardless of the content of Ahmadinejad's letter ... such a communication could lead the two sides to direct talks,\" the centrist \"Shargh\" newspaper said somewhat optimistically. \"Whatever its content, the letter crosses the red line of non-negotiation. If Ahmadinejad's letter gets a positive response, a new chapter could open and then we could say it is possible to talk and get results in the shadow of war,\" it said.\n\nThe Iranian newspaper \"Siasat-e Rooz\" compared the letter with the historical letter by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to Mikhail Gorbachev in which he suggested conversion to Islam.\n\n\"The New York Sun\", in their May 11, 2006 editorial, pointed out that the letter followed the format of an Islamic missionary (\"Da'wa\") message, including the traditional ending used by the Islamic prophet Muhammad in his Da'wa messages to the Byzantine Empire's leaders and the nomadic polytheist Arab tribes. The newspaper translated this phrase (\"Wasalam Ala Man Ataba'al hoda\") as \"peace only unto those who follow the true path\", and interpreted it as a threat of violence. The phrase is more directly translated as \"and peace to whoever follows the path\" and is traditional with any Da'wa. The letter also included many references to Jesus as a Muslim prophet, a common signature of Da'wa letters directed towards Christians. The Islamic Republic News Agency says President Ahmadinejad confirmed that the letter was intended as a Da'wa invitation in a press conference.\n\nAccording to Mohammad Khatami, in his interview with BBC News, the Iranian government sent a letter to the U.S. government after the fall of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, but it was ignored. This may have been a retaliation to President Bill Clinton's missive on October 20, 2000, that was ignored. In fact, this was Clinton's second letter to Khatami.\n\nThe letter from Iranian authorities in 2003 was confirmed by Lawrence Wilkerson, the chief of staff of Secretary of State Colin Powell.\n\n"}
{"id": "937752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937752", "title": "Mannyng's Chronicle", "text": "Mannyng's Chronicle\n\nMannyng's Chronicle is a chronicle written in Middle English by Robert Mannyng in about 1338. He came from Bourne in Lincolnshire and though not himself in full orders was connected with the priory at Sempringham and later with Sixhill. He also rhymed Story of England.\n\nMannyng began writing his chronicle at the beginning of Edward III’s reign in 1327 and probably finished it in 1338, dated at the end of the second part. The chronicle consists of two parts. The first, describing British history up to King Cadwaldre and a translation of Wace’s Roman de Brut, is 15,946 lines long. The second part, describing history from Cadwaldre up to the death of Edward III and a translation of the Anglo-French verse by Peter of Langtoft, is 8358 lines long. The chronicle survives in two manuscripts: The P manuscript and the L manuscript. The former is the most complete, since the latter ends somewhere in the middle of part II.\n"}
{"id": "3027181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3027181", "title": "Marghanita Laski", "text": "Marghanita Laski\n\nMarghanita Laski (24 October 1915 – 6 February 1988) was an English journalist, radio panellist and novelist; she also wrote literary biography, plays and short stories.\n\nMarghanita Laski was born in Manchester, England, to a prominent family of Jewish intellectuals (Neville Laski was her father, Moses Gaster her grandfather and Harold Laski her uncle), she was educated at Lady Barn House School in Manchester and St Paul's Girls' School in Hammersmith, worked in fashion, then studied English at Somerville College, Oxford.\n\nWhilst at Oxford she met John Eldred Howard, who was a founder of the Cresset Press: the couple married in 1937. During this time she worked in journalism.\n\nLaski lived in Hampstead and Abbots Langley.\n\nAfter her son and daughter were born, Laski began writing in earnest; most of her output in the 1940s and 1950s was fiction. She sold the film rights to one novel, \"Little Boy Lost\" (1949), about an Englishman on the search for his lost son in the ruins of post-war France to John Mills — however, when the film adaptation was released in 1953, she was upset that it had been turned into a musical starring Bing Crosby. She turned towards non-fiction in the 1960s and 1970s, producing works on Charlotte Mary Yonge, Jane Austen, George Eliot and Rudyard Kipling.\n\nAn omnivorous reader, from 1958 onward she became a prolific and compulsive contributor to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and by 1986 had \"carded\" around 250,000 quotations, making her (according to Ilan Stavans) \"the supreme contributor, male or female, to the OED\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Laski was the science fiction critic for \"The Observer\". She was a member of the Annan Committee on broadcasting between 1974 and 1977. She joined the Arts Council in 1979, was elected its Vice Chair in 1982, and served as chair of its Literature Panel between 1980 and 1984.\n\nLaski was a panellist on the popular UK BBC panel shows \"What's My Line?\" (1951–63), \"The Brains Trust\" (late 1950s), and \"Any Questions?\" (1960s).\n\nAn avowed atheist, she was also a keen supporter of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. Her play, \"The Offshore Island\", is about nuclear warfare.\n\nAnthony Boucher described her novella \"The Victorian Chaise Longue\" as \"an admirably written book, highly skilled in its economic evocation of time, place and character -- and a relentlessly terrifying one.\" \"Ecstasy: A Study of Some Secular and Religious Experiences\" has been compared to \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" by William James in its importance. \"Tory Heaven\", a counterfactual novel depicting a Britain ruled by a rigidly hierarchical Conservative dictatorship and satirising middle-class attitudes towards the Attlee ministry, was described as \"wickedly amusing\" by Ralph Straus of \"The Sunday Times\", and as \"an ingeniously contrived and wittily told tale\" by Hugh Fausset of the \"Manchester Guardian\": writing about the book in 2018, David Kynaston called it a \"highly engaging, beautifully written novel\".\n\nShe died at Royal Brompton Hospital, London due to a smoking-related lung problem on 6 February 1988, aged 72, and was survived by her husband and children.\n\n\nPersephone Books reprinted \"The Victorian Chaise-longue\" in 1999, \"Little Boy Lost\" in 2001, \"The Village\" in 2004, \"To Bed with Grand Music\" in 2009 and \"Tory Heaven\" in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "7487249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7487249", "title": "Memories with Food at Gipsy House", "text": "Memories with Food at Gipsy House\n\nMemories with Food at Gipsy House is a collection of anecdotes and recipes by Roald Dahl and his second wife, Felicity, first published in 1991.\n\nThe book was reissued in softcover in 1996 under the title \"Roald Dahl's Cookbook\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11221158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11221158", "title": "Mission and Spacecraft Library", "text": "Mission and Spacecraft Library\n\nMission and Spacecraft Library (MSL) is a reference web site, maintained by NASA, containing information about satellites. It contains a catalog of several hundreds of satellites from different countries. The site was founded by Jet Propulsion Laboratory employee Mike Evans, who had a vision of building a database that would be publicly accessible via the World Wide Web. The site has not been updated since 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "28939885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28939885", "title": "NIST Special Publication 800-37", "text": "NIST Special Publication 800-37\n\nNIST Special Publication 800-37, \"Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems\" was developed by the Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative Working Group. It aims to transform the traditional Certification and Accreditation (C&A) process into the six-step Risk management framework (RMF).\n\nThe second step of the RMF is to select the appropriate subset of security controls from the control catalog in NIST Special Publication 800-53.\n\n"}
{"id": "4004118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4004118", "title": "Nasdaq Market Makers Antitrust Litigation", "text": "Nasdaq Market Makers Antitrust Litigation\n\nNasdaq Market-Makers Antitrust Litigation - class-action lawsuit initiated in 1996 alleging collusion amongst Wall Street traders. The class action alleged that NASDAQ market-makers set and maintained wide spreads pursuant to an industry-wide conspiracy. Litigation took 3.5 years and was eventually settled for $1 billion, which was the largest antitrust settlement up to that point.\n\n"}
{"id": "10569161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10569161", "title": "On the Origin of the World", "text": "On the Origin of the World\n\nOn the Origin of the World is a Gnostic work dealing with creation and the end time. It was found among the texts in what is known as the Nag Hammadi library, in Codex II and Codex XIII, immediately following the \"Reality of the Rulers\". There are many parallels between the two texts. The manuscript does not have a title, but scholars have dubbed it “On the Origin of the World,” because of what it describes. It is estimated to have been written sometime near the end of the third century. While the author is not mentioned, he or she seems to have been interested in expressing a Gnostic understanding of the world’s conception. In particular, it rethinks the entire story of Genesis, and positions Yaldabaoth (the Demiurge) as the creator of the world, fulfilling the role of God in Genesis. Furthermore, the Serpent in the Garden of Eden is depicted as a hero sent by Sophia, the figure of wisdom, to guide mankind towards enlightenment. It expresses one approach to the creation and end of the world. Other myths found within the Nag Hammadi collection have varying explanations and details. \n\nThis one has a distinct perspective: it intertwines views from Judaism, Christianity, Hellenistic and Egyptian thought, and others in order to help explain its concept of Gnosticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44067661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067661", "title": "Parker v Small Smith", "text": "Parker v Small Smith\n\nParker v Small Smith (2005) 5 NZCPR 921 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding whether a nominee stated in a contract is sufficiently designated in order for the Contracts (Privity) Act 1982 to apply.\n"}
{"id": "18099487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18099487", "title": "Pearl Kiosk", "text": "Pearl Kiosk\n\nThe Pearl Kiosk () was a mansion directly located at the banks of the Bosphorus and served as a pleasure building for the Ottoman sultan. It was built in 1590 by the grand vizier Koca Sinan Pasha.\n\n"}
{"id": "18922542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18922542", "title": "Provincial Archives of Alberta", "text": "Provincial Archives of Alberta\n\nThe Provincial Archives of Alberta is the official archives of the Canadian Province of Alberta. It preserves and makes available for research both private and government records of all media related to Alberta. The Provincial Archives of Alberta also serves as the permanent archival repository of the Government of Alberta.\n\nThe organization is situated in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and is headed by Provincial Archivist Leslie Latta.\nThe collection includes:\n\nPublic interaction with the Provincial Archives of Alberta is primarily through the Sandra Thomson Reading Room which is open to the public five days a week and staffed full-time by professional archivists. The archivists are available to give advice on the primary sources that may respond to researchers' inquiries.\n\nThe Sandra Thomson Reading Room has the following major sources:\n\n\nThe Provincial Archives of Alberta promotes Alberta's history and in this way makes the Archives relevant to future users through:\n\n\nThe origin of the Provincial Archives dates back to 1908 when Katharine Hughes served as the first Provincial Archivist within the Provincial Library. Through the years the holdings continued to grow.\n\nIn 1962, the Government of Alberta established a Museums Branch under the Department of the Provincial Secretary for the establishment of a Provincial Archives and a Provincial Museum. The Branch began to accept archival records from government and private sources in 1963. In 1965 work began on a new Provincial Museum and Archives building in the Glenora district of Edmonton. Work finished and the building officially opened in 1967.\n\nAs the years went by the Provincial Archives of Alberta outgrew its space and began to warehouse collections, and the need for a larger building became apparent. The Provincial Archives officially opened the doors to its new location at 8555 Roper Road NW in Edmonton on October 5, 2003. The custom 11000 m2 building is situated on a six hectare (14.8 acre) site in southeast Edmonton.\n\nFunding for the construction of the new building was made possible through grants from the Alberta Centennial Legacies Grant Program\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1026203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026203", "title": "Rainbows in mythology", "text": "Rainbows in mythology\n\nThe rainbow, a natural phenomenon noted for its beauty and mystical appearance, has been a favorite component of mythology throughout history. Rainbows are part of the myths of many cultures around the world. The Norse saw it as Bifrost; Judeo-Christian traditions see it as a covenant with God not to destroy the world by means of floodwater. Whether as a bridge to the heavens, messenger, archer’s bow, or serpent, the rainbow has been pressed into symbolic service for millennia. There is a myriad of beliefs concerning the rainbow. The complex diversity of rainbow myths are far-reaching, as are their inherent similarities.\n\nIn Norse religion, a burning rainbow bridge called the Bifrost connects Midgard (earth) with Asgard, home of the gods. Bifrost can be used only by gods and those who are killed in battle. It is eventually shattered under the weight of war - the Ragnarok (German Götterdammerung). The notion that the rainbow bridge to heaven is attainable by only the good or virtuous, such as warriors and royalty, is a theme repeated often in world myths.\n\nIn the ancient beliefs of Japan, rainbows were the bridges that human ancestors took to descend to the planet.\n\nIn Navajo tradition, the rainbow is the path of the holy spirits, and is frequently depicted in sacred sandpaintings. \n\nThe Maori tell a tale of Hina, the moon, who caused a rainbow to span the heavens even down to the earth, for her mortal husband to return to earth to end his days, since death may not enter her celestial home.\n\nIn Greek mythology, Iris is the personification of the rainbow and a messenger linking the gods to humanity. Iris is frequently mentioned as a divine messenger in the Iliad. She carries a caduceus or winged staff. Iris's messages often concerned war and retribution. However, like many Greek gods, Iris is continually being redefined. The rainbow eventually became solely a mode of transportation for Iris, who proves to be as elusive and unpredictable as the rainbow itself.\n\nAnuenue, the rainbow maiden, appears in Hawaiian legends as the messenger for her brothers, the gods Tane and Kanaloa.\n\nThe rainbow is depicted as an archer's bow in Hindu mythology. Indra, the god of thunder and war, uses the rainbow to shoot arrows of lightning. \n\nA rather ambiguous perception of the rainbow strikes a vein in all world culture, through its entire storied past.\n\n\"The Epic of Gilgamesh\", who was an ancient Sumerian king (ca.3000 BC), is our first detailed written evidence of human civilization. In a Victorian translation of a Gilgamesh variant, Leonidas Le Cenci Hamilton's Epic of Ishtar and Izdubar, King Izdubar sees \"a mass of colors like the rainbow’s hues\" that are \"linked to divine sanction for war.\" Later in the epic, Izdubar sees the \"glistening colors of the rainbow rise\" in the fountain of life next to Elam’s Tree of Immortality.\n\nThe Sumerian farmer god Ninurta defends Sumer with a bow and arrow, and wore a crown described as a rainbow.\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, the rainbow snake is the Creator (Kurreah, Andrenjinyi, Yingarna, Ngalyod and others) in the Dreaming, which is the infinite period of time that \"began with the world's creation and that has no end. People, animals, and Eternal Beings like the Rainbow Serpent are all part of the Dreaming, and everyday life is affected by the Dreaming's immortals,\" in almost every Australian Aborigine tribe. In these tribes, of which there are over 50, actual rainbows are gigantic, often malevolent, serpents who inhabit the sky or ground. This snake has different names in different tribes, and has both different and similar traits from tribe to tribe.\n\nThe theme consistent with most Australian tribes is that the Rainbow Serpent is the creator of the world and all beings. During the dry season, the Rainbow Serpent retreats to deep waterholes. Another common theme among all aboriginal tribes is that the Rainbow Serpent has no gender. And while the Rainbow Serpent can give fertility by creating rain, it can also let loose blindness and disease. \"The Aboriginal Rainbow is humanity, because it causes the 'energy' and the 'breath' that gives people life.\"\n\nNgalyod, first-born son of Yingarna, who is the Rainbow Serpent creator of the Kunwinjku in western Arnhem Land in Australia—sucks up water during the dry season and spits it out as rain during the wet season. Like Iris, Ngalyod helps to ensure fertility with rains, but he can destroy as well as nurture. Yingarna, the creator of the Kunwinjku people, is \"nominally female\" and androgynous like her son Ngalyod. She possesses cunningly ambivalent form; as she combines elements of snake, fish, crocodile, catfish, emu, and kangaroo. The Estonian Rainbow Serpent, like the Aborigines' Ngalyod, sucks up water and spits rain, and also has a confused identity – it possesses an ox's head on its serpent body.\n\nAccording to Genesis, after Noah saved the animals from the Great Flood, a rainbow appeared. As the flood had killed all other living beings, the rainbow came to symbolise God's promise that he would never send another flood to destroy all of the earth and that never again would all living things be killed in the waters of a flood.\n\nFor some native people the rainbow around the sun is considered to be a sign from God, marking a time of great change. \n\n“The Whirling Rainbow – Prophecy\nThere will come a day when people of all races, colors, and creeds will put aside their differences. They will come together in love, joining hands in unification, to heal the Earth and all Her children. They will move over the Earth like a great Whirling Rainbow, bringing peace, understanding and healing everywhere they go. Many creatures thought to be extinct or mythical will resurface at this time; the great trees that perished will return almost overnight. All living things will flourish, drawing sustenance from the breast of our Mother, the Earth.\n\nThe great spiritual Teachers who walked the Earth and taught the basics of the truths of the Whirling Rainbow Prophecy will return and walk amongst us once more, sharing their power and understanding with all. We will learn how to see and hear in a sacred manner. Men and women will be equals in the way Creator intended them to be; all children will be safe anywhere they want to go. Elders will be respected and valued for their contributions to life. Their wisdom will be sought out. The whole Human race will be called The People and there will be no more war, sickness or hunger forever” ~Ancient American Indian Prophecy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39394572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394572", "title": "S v Chretien", "text": "S v Chretien\n\nIn S v Chretien an important case in South African criminal law, especially as it pertains to the defence of automatism, the Appellate Division held that even automatism arising out of voluntary intoxication may constitute an absolute defence, leading to a total acquittal, where, \"inter alia\", the accused drinks so much that he lacks criminal capacity.\n\nSeven years later, the legislature intervened to limit the destructive consequences of this decision, enacting section 1(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, in \"a vain attempt to reflect public sentiment on intoxication.\" In so doing, however, \"the Legislature simply compounded the problems.\"\n\nModelled on the German penal code, this provision created the special statutory offence of committing a prohibited act while in a state of criminal incapacity induced by the voluntary consumption of alcohol. It requires the prosecution to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the accused is not liable for a common-law offence because of the lack of capacity resulting from this self-induced intoxication, \"so requiring the prosecution to engage in an unfamiliar \"volte face\".\" As Burchell explains,\n\nIf the intoxication, leading to an acquittal of the common-law offence, is only sufficient to impair intention (as on the facts of \"Chretien\"), rather than sufficient to impair capacity, then no liability can result under s 1(1), as lack of capacity resulting from intoxication has to be proved for a conviction under s 1(1). The section is in dire need of reform or replacement with a more appropriately worded section.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12573444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12573444", "title": "Seslisözlük", "text": "Seslisözlük\n\nSesli Sozluk is a multilingual online dictionary, primarily English to Turkish and Turkish to English. As of February 2009, it has a rank of 6 among all online dictionaries worldwide. German, Italian, French, Spanish, Greek, Russian, Danish, Dutch, Polish and Portuguese translations are also provided. The online dictionary also can be used in PDAs, SmartPhones, any phone supporting a web browser.\n\nSeslisozluk.com, established in 1999 as one of the first English-Turkish online dictionaries, is a user-supported online dictionary. The name comes from Turkish \"sesli sözlük\", \"dictionary with sound\", because the site enables users to listen to the pronunciation of the words.\n\nA contribution system lets users add new translations. With the user contribution feature, the dictionary has been steadily growing since it was started, and has now reached more than 2 million entries. Its users appreciate the easy user interface, fast response and multilanguage capability. The website also has a user forum.\n\nSeslisozluk.com has released its new version, version 5 in December 2008. With this version of the dictionary, word rating feature lets users vote for the best word for given search. For example, a 5 star word is listed in the first place.\n\nWith new search bar features, users can see search related images, can listen pronunciations automatically, can see results in compact view and can use a multi language virtual keyboard.\n\nIn 2007, Seslisozluk.com has been awarded with the top service award in information category by Informatics Associations of Turkey in Best Web Awards contest.\n\nIn 2008, Seslisozluk.com reached the finals at Altın Örümcek Best Web Awards Contest. In January 2010, Seslisozluk announced its free iPhone application.\n\n"}
{"id": "42118290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42118290", "title": "Socialist Workers' Party of Iran", "text": "Socialist Workers' Party of Iran\n\nSocialist Workers’ Party of Iran () is a small Iranian communist party exiled in England. The party is a merger of two Trotskyite groups based abroad, \"Trotskyites\", the first Trotskyite group in the history of Persian communism that was founded by Iranian students in London in 1960s, and another group created in the United States with the help of Socialist Workers Party by Babak Zahraei. The two groups were unaware of each other, but were brought together via Fourth International.\n\nThe party members were few in number and activity and not very influential among leftists in Iran.\n"}
{"id": "34370441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34370441", "title": "Strachan v Prinsloo", "text": "Strachan v Prinsloo\n\nStrachan v Prinsloo is an important case in South African contract law. It was heard in the Transvaal Provincial Division by Tindall J and Greenberg J.\n\nAn agreement between Strachan and Prinsloo imposed on the former the duty of managing the latter's farm so as to relieve him of all duties of supervision. In spite of warnings, Strachan persistently and continuously failed to attend early in the morning and late in the evening, which was when important duties of supervising had to be done, with the result that those duties had to be performed by Prinsloo. Finally, on three successive days, Strachan did not appear on the farm at all, whereupon Prinsloo cancelled the agreement.\n\nThe court held\n\nfailed to perform a vital term, express or implied, of the agreement;\n\nA serious violation of duty by one party, in other words, justifies the other in terminating the contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14742811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14742811", "title": "The Lord Chandos Letter", "text": "The Lord Chandos Letter\n\nA Letter (Ein Brief), usually known as The Letter of Lord Chandos or the Chandos Letter, is a prose work written by Hugo von Hofmannsthal in 1902. It is in the form of a letter dated August 1603 from a writer named Lord Philip Chandos (a fictional character) to Francis Bacon, and describes Chandos's crisis of language.\n\nThe letter begins with a summary of the great literary feats that Chandos once achieved. Then Chandos writes of his current mental state. He has reached a crisis point in his career concerning language and its ability to adequately express the human experience. Chandos has abandoned all future written projects, which he once proposed with exuberance, because of his inability to express himself in a meaningful fashion. \nChandos describes the development of his crisis in stages. First came the loss of the ability to conduct academic discourse on matters of morality or philosophy. Next, he lost the function to make everyday conversation regarding opinions or judgments. Lastly he turned to the classics, works by Cicero and Seneca, in an attempt to cure his literary ailment but could make no sense of them and his condition continued to decline. Chandos describes his state at present as, “…[having] lost completely the ability to think or speak of anything coherently.” Chandos experiences extreme moments of transcendence, where epiphanies on life and the spirit overwhelm him. However, these moments are brief in nature and once they have passed Chandos is incapable of expressing the insight he uncovered moments before. These epiphanies are the highlight of Chandos’ existence, and outside of them his life is stagnant and barren. Chandos often feels he is on the brink of recovery as thoughts begin to form in his mind. But like the epiphanies they are soon lost in his inability to write. This failure of language has robbed him of self-confidence and creativity. The end result is Chandos as a broken man mourning his lost abilities. Chandos ultimately says he will write no more in any known language.\n\n\"The Lord Chandos Letter\" stands in stark contrast to Hofmannsthal's early works and poetry. He was a poet who had a command over language in his early poetry centered on the “inner self” that had characterized his time as a member of the elite literary circle Young Vienna. Instead, in his writing \"The Lord Chandos Letter\", Hofmannsthal abandons poetry and his work on aesthetics much to the disappointment of his readers. \n\"The Lord Chandos Letter\" was written during the fin de siècle, a clash between the old social order and a development of new thought and means of expression. Central figures of the movement such as Hofmannsthal, Sigmund Freud, Ernst Mach and Ludwig Wittgenstein witnessed the transformation of society but were dismayed by their inability to effect change in a modern society that was “hopelessly pluralistic; lacking in cohesion or direction”.\nIn his letter, Hofmannsthal mentions a sickness of the mind which emerged from the inability of language to sufficiently express oneself amidst social and political turmoil. The preoccupation with a crisis of language is most famously recognized in his \"Lord Chandos Letter\".\n\nHofmannsthal’s position on the subject of language closely resembled that of Ludwig Wittgenstein who dominated the discussion of the critique of language for nearly a century in Viennese society. Wittgenstein admired Hofmannsthal’s work, especially \"The Lord Chandos Letter\" in which Hofmannsthal anticipated Wittgenstein’s idea that “language is the limit of our world”. The seemingly incompatible relationship between language and experience is a motif of twentieth century European works and manifested itself in art and music from Gustav Klimt and Arnold Schoenberg respectively.\n\nErwin Kobel is an example of a critic who uses biographical evidence from Hofmannsthal’s life to show the autobiographical links between his life and the Lord Chandos Letter. Thomas Kovach argues that “so many critics viewed \"The Lord Chandos Letter\" as an autobiographical document” because of Hofmannsthal’s personal literary crisis that stemmed from his own self-doubt. However, he continues to argue that while there are apparent autobiographical elements of the work, most critics agree that \"The Lord Chandos Letter\" is in fact a work of fiction. He supports this claim by revealing the anomaly that Hofmannsthal is able to eloquently write about a crisis of language. That this work is fiction is reinforced by the fact that Hofmannsthal had a literary career past the publishing of \"The Lord Chandos Letter\", whereas Lord Chandos promises never to compose again.\n\nKovach presents another possible interpretation of the work. He writes that the crisis of language should be viewed as deeper than simply a predicament of communication and the limits of language. Since language is used to express thought, he concludes that the crisis examined by Hofmannsthal should be seen as one of cognition in addition to one of language; he asserts that Chandos is unable to write clearly because he is unable to think clearly.\n\nAnother opinion on \"The Lord Chandos Letter\" is that it is evidence of an existential crisis. This existential crisis is related to the reconstruction of fin-de-siècle Vienna and the ensuing crisis felt by society. With the transition to an industrial society, forms and manners of expression previously deemed effective were no longer capable of articulating the thoughts and ideas of Viennese society.\n\nMichael Morton, another critic, views the crisis reflected in \"The Lord Chandos Letter\" as a set of predicaments. He feels Hofmannsthal expresses dilemmas of the self and of language. He argues that Chandos’ crisis is a conflict between viewing the self as a subject or as an object. The second conflict he sees in the work is a conflict regarding the functionality and usefulness of language. In terms of the utility of language, Morton presents the tension between ideas being built around language rather than vice versa, language attempting to have more power than it is meant to have, and language trying to explain ideas and truths above its capabilities.\nJacques le Rider analyzes Hofmannsthal’s choice of Francis Bacon as the recipient of the letter. Le Rider recognizes elements of Ernst Mach’s works within \"The Lord Chandos Letter\"; Francis Bacon can be identified as the individual who laid the foundation for the work of Ernst Mach. Ernst Mach’s works discusses the elimination of barriers between \"inside and outside, the self and the world\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "240436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240436", "title": "The Milepost", "text": "The Milepost\n\nThe Milepost is an extensive guide book covering Alaska, the Yukon, the Northwest Territories, and British Columbia. It was first published in 1949 as a guide about traveling along the Alaska Highway, often locally referred to as \"The ALCAN\". It has since expanded to cover all major highways in the northwest corner of North America, including the Alaska Marine Highway. It is updated annually.\n\n\"The Milepost\" is packaged and distributed like a book (2008 edition: ), but like the Yellow Pages it includes paid advertising. The original 1949 edition was a mere 72 pages, by 2014 it had expanded to 752 pages, detailing every place a traveler might eat, sleep, or just pull off the road for a moment on all of the highways of northwestern North America. In addition to the paid ads, descriptions are provided of interesting hikes or side trip drives near the highways, campgrounds, and other public facilities, as well as short histories of most of the settlements on the highways. Newer additions include special sections on selected areas popular with tourists, such as the Kenai Peninsula. It is also exhaustively cross-indexed and maps and charts are provided so that travelers can determine the total driving distance between any two points covered by the guide.\n\nSince 1997 \"The Milepost\" has been published by Morris Communications and currently shares publishing offices with \"Alaska\" magazine. Beginning in 2009, The Milepost is also available in an interactive digital format or download.\n"}
{"id": "50216360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50216360", "title": "The Story of the Man Who Turned into a Dog", "text": "The Story of the Man Who Turned into a Dog\n\nThe Story of the Man Who Turned into a Dog (Historia del hombre que se convirtió en perro) is a short play written by Osvaldo Dragún as part of his \"Historias para ser contadas\" (\"Stories to be Told\"), a series of short plays. It is the third short play in the series. The original production premiered with the independent theatre group Teatro Popular Fray Mocho in 1957. \"The Story of the Man Who Turned into a Dog\", as well as the other \"Historias\" can be classified into many genres of theatre, including Theatre of the Absurd, Metatheatre and Magic realism.\n\n\nFour actors introduce the story by explaining how they learned of the story of the man who turned into a dog, and then explain that they will demonstrate and play this story out for the audience. Actor #1 portrays the Man Who Turned into a Dog, Actors #2 and #3 portray the boss and the people he must work for, and Actress portrays his wife. The Man is in need of a job but is told by Actors 2 and 3 that he can only be given a job if someone else dies, retires or is fired. After a watchman’s dog dies following 25 years of service, the Man reluctantly agrees to become the new watchdog. He must live in the doghouse and eat dog food for the pay of 1 dollar a day, even though it drives him and his wife apart. Gradually, the man assumes dog-like behavior and is consistently denied other job opportunities that open up. After moving out to live in an apartment with other women so she can afford rent, his wife announces that she is pregnant and she is afraid her baby will be born a dog. The Man has an outburst and runs away, fully assuming the role of a dog. By the end of the play, Actor 1 can only bark and is no longer able to shift between man and dog.\n\nOther prominent themes in Dragún's work and the \"Historias para ser contadas\" series include: \"the criticism of censorship, repression and internal exile.\"\n\nOsvaldo Dragún was known for bringing the Epic theatre of Brecht to Latin America, and combining modern Argentine theatre technique with classical themes. Much of his work features \"narrative foregrounding,\" which \"forces the audience to observe the narrative process.\" Characteristics of Dragún's plays that are separate from Brecht include emphasis on the absurd, character underdevelopment and a combination of both narrative and presentational style writing.\n\n\"Historias\" was described by Dragún as \"studies in the grotesque,\" and therefore focused heavily on the dehumanization process which he called \"animalizacion.\" \"Historia de hombre que se convirtio en perro\" is unique in comparison to the style of the other \"Historia's\" because of its emphasis on the devaluation of language, a common theme in Theatre of the Absurd. It also follows the narrative foregrounding technique more than other \"Historias,\" like \"Historia de como nuestro amigo Panchito Gonzalez se sintio responsable de la epidemia de peste bubonica en Africa del Sur,\" which does not have the actors narrate or recreate the story at all.\n\nThe characters in \"The Story of the Man Who Turned into a Dog\" play multiple roles and are not fully developed, making the audience focus on the situations of the characters rather than the characters themselves.\n\n\nDragún was born on May 7, 1927 in Entre Ríos Province of Argentina to a Jewish family. His father was a horse tamer, who lost his job following an economic crash. This event severely impacted the family, forcing the family to move to Buenos Aires and inspiring Dragún to draw heavy influence from this while writing \"Historia de hombre que se convirtio en perro.\" Dragún is also known for his writing for film and television, as a result of his project \"Teatro Abierto\" that took place during a period of military repression. He died in June 1999 as one of Argentina's prominent playwrights, having won two Casa de las Américas Prizes for his writing and contribution to the theatre.\n\nMost of Dragún's plays focus on the life of a lower or middle social class, often criticizing a capitalist society that represses them.\n\nOsvaldo Dragún was particularly involved in the Argentine (independent theatre) movement, a predecessor to Argentine Open Theatre in the 1980s. Argentine Teatro independiente began in the 1930s with the establishment of , founded by the poet . When the movement began, it drew heavy influence from the European avant-garde movement, as apparent in Dragún's heavily Brechtian writing style. In addition to avant-garde style and technique, the Teatro independiente movement also encouraged the use of the 'system' of Konstantin Stanislavski.\n\nThe goal of Argentine Teatro independiente was to provide a platform to engage with theatre written by the best authors in Argentina. It counteracted the popular commercial and national theaters, and often criticized capitalism and commercialism. The values and aesthetic of the movement were incredibly strong because most companies shared designers, playwrights, directors and actors. Because of its fringe-like values, many of the theatre companies were housed in basements, lofts and other non-conventional spaces. Of the most prominent independent theatre companies were Teatro del Pueblo, La Mascara, Nuevo Teatro and Fray Mocho, the theatre company where \"Historia del hombre que se convirtió en perro\" premiered.\n\nTeatro independiente had great influence on the theatre of its surrounding countries, including Peru, Chile, Bolivia, and Uruguay. By 1956, the movement had died out, following the collapse of the Juan Perón political regime.\n"}
{"id": "45302607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45302607", "title": "Ulrich Sinn", "text": "Ulrich Sinn\n\nUlrich Sinn (* 4 October 1945 in Bevensen) is a German classical archaeologist.\n\nUlrich Sinn graduated from the humanist gymnasium Johanneum in Lüneburg. After completing military service, he first studied education in Karlsruhe from 1967 to 1968, then classical archaeology, Ancient History and particularly Art history at the University of Freiburg. During this time he took part in excavations in Southern Italy and Greece and participated in field trips to Athens and Olympia.\n\nSinn received his doctorate in 1975 with a thesis about \"Die ‚Homerischen’ Becher. Hellenistische Reliefkeramik aus Makedonien\" (The \"Homeric\" Cup. Hellenistic Ceramic Reliefs of Macedonia), supervised by Walter-Herwig Schuchhardt. In 1974/5 he held a one-year volontariat at the Staatlichen Kunstsammlungen in Kassel. In 1975/6 he received a travel grant from the German Archaeological Institute. From 1976 to 1979 Sinn was Referent at the German Archaeological Institute at Athens, where he participated in the excavations of the Heraion of Samos among other things. Subsequently, Sinn was Scholarly Assistant at the archaeological institute of the University of Bonn from 1979 to 1984. In 1982 he was accepted to corresponding membership of the German Archaeological Institute. Since 1985, Sinn has led the international research project, \"Olympia in der römischen Kaiserzeit und der Spätantike\" (Olympia in the Roman Imperial Period and Late Antiquity) through the Olympia excavations of the German Archaeological Institute. As a result, he received teaching positions at various international institutions in Athens. In 1989, Sinn received his habilitation from the University of Bonn for his work, \"Die griechischen Heiligtümer als Stätten der Hikesie\" (Greek Sanctuaries as Places of \"Hikesia\" (Prayer)). From 1992 until 1994, Sinn was Professor of Classical Archaeology at the University of Augsburg, from 1994 to 2011 he held the Chair of Classical Archaeology at the University of Würzburg. This involved control of the university's antiquities collection in the Martin von Wagner Museum. From 2003 to 2009, Sinn was Vice-President of the University of Würzburg.\n\nSinn's chief research interests are the functions, organisation and topography of Greek sanctuaries, especially Olympia, Greek architectural sculpture, minor arts, vase painting, the history of ancient sports and ancient architecture.\n\nSinn is married to classical archaeologist Friederike Sinn.\n\n \"The Sanctuary of Zeus Lykaios.\" \"EI\" Magazine of European Art Center (EUARCE) of Greece, 3st issue 1993' p.55\n"}
{"id": "606255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606255", "title": "World Museum", "text": "World Museum\n\nWorld Museum is a large museum in Liverpool, England which has extensive collections covering archaeology, ethnology and the natural and physical sciences. Special attractions include the Natural History Centre and a planetarium. Entry to the museum is free. The museum is part of National Museums Liverpool.\n\nThe museum was originally started as the \"Derby Museum\" as it comprised the 13th Earl of Derby's natural history collection. The museum opened originally in 1851, sharing two rooms on \"Duke Street\" with a library. However, the museum proved extremely popular and a new, purpose-built building was required.\n\nLand for the new building on a street then known as \"Shaw's Brow\" opposite St. George's Hall was donated by local MP and Merchant William Brown, as was much of the funding for the building which would be known as the William Brown Library and Museum. Around 400,000 people attended the opening of the new building in 1860.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the museum's collection was beginning to outgrow its building so a competition was launched to design a combined extension to the museum and college of technology. The competition was won by William Mountford and the College of Technology and Museum Extension opened in 1901.\n\nLiverpool, being one of the UK's major ports, was heavily damaged by German bombing during the blitz. While much of the Museum's collection was moved to less vulnerable locations during the war, the museum building itself was struck by German firebombs and suffered heavy damage. Parts of the museum only began to reopen fifteen years later.\n\nThe museum underwent an £35 million refurbishment in 2005 in order to double the size of the display spaces and make even more of the collections accessible for visitors. A central entrance hall and six-storey atrium were created as part of the work. Major new galleries included \"World Cultures\", the \"Bug House\" and the \"Weston Discovery Centre\". On reopening after this refurbishment and extension the museum's name changed from its previous title of Liverpool Museum, which it had held since its establishment at its current William Brown Street site in 1860.\n\nThe physical sciences collection of World Museum was built after the devastation caused by the incendiary fire of 1941. The collection has expanded, in part, due to transfers from the Decorative Arts Department, Regional History Department, Walker Art Gallery and the Prescot Museum. The collection also contains several significant collections from the Liverpool Royal Institution, Bidston Observatory, later the Proudman Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, and the Physics Department of the University of Liverpool.\n\nCollections such as these are often made up of items of a singular type designed for a particular experiment such as DELPHI or LEP at CERN - the European Organization for Nuclear Research, or the Equatorium, a post-Copernican planetary calculator made to special order in the early 17th century. As a consequence the collection is small but contains a number of significant items.\n\nWorld Museum is home to a planetarium. The planetarium opened in 1970 and has 62 seats. It currently attracts about 90,000 people per year. Shows cover various aspects of space science, including the Solar System, space exploration and has special children's shows.\n\nThe Egyptology collection contains approximately 15,000 objects from Egypt and Sudan and is the most important single component of the Antiquities department's collections. The chronological range of the collection spans from the Prehistoric to the Islamic Period with the largest archaeological site collections being Abydos, Amarna, Beni Hasan, Esna and Meroe.\n\nOver 5000 Egyptian antiquities were donated to the museum in 1867 by Joseph Mayer (1803–1886), a local goldsmith and antiquarian. Mayer purchased collections from Joseph Sams of Darlington (which contained material from the Henry Salt sale in 1835), Lord Valentia, Bram Hertz and the Reverend Henry Stobart. Mayer had displayed his collection in his own ‘Egyptian Museum’ in Liverpool with a purpose of giving citizens who were unable to visit the British Museum in London some idea of the achievements of the Egyptian civilization. On the strength of this substantial donation other people began to donate Egyptian material to the museum, and by the later years of the 19th century the museum had a substantial collection that Amelia Edwards described as being the most important collection of Egyptian antiquities in England next to the contents of the British Museum.\n\nThe quality of the Mayer donation is high and there are some outstanding items, but with a few exceptions the entire collection is unprovenanced. The collection was systematically enhanced through subscription to excavations in Egypt. Altogether the museum subscribed to 25 excavations carried out by the Egypt Exploration Fund (now Egypt Exploration Society), the British School of Archaeology in Egypt, and the Egyptian Research Account between 1884 and 1914. It was further developed through links with the Institute of Archaeology at Liverpool University and important collections came to the museum from the excavations of John Garstang who was honorary reader in Egyptian archaeology at Liverpool University 1902–07, and Professor of Methods and Practice of Archaeology 1907–41. The museum has always had a close relationship with the university; in the early 1920s Percy Newberry, Brunner Professor of Egyptology, and his successor T. Eric Peet, catalogued the collection, assisted with the rearrangement of the displays, and produced a handbook and guide to the Egyptian collection (1st ed., 1923).\n\nIn May 1941, at the height of the Liverpool Blitz, a bomb fell on the museum, which was burnt to a shell. Large parts of the collection had been removed at the outbreak of the war, but much remained on display or in store and many artefacts were destroyed. What remained was quite inaccessible and it was not until 1976 that a permanent Egypt gallery was opened in the rebuilt museum. Following the war the museum actively augmented the collection through collecting of new material from excavations in Egypt and Sudan and the purchase of other museum collections. In 1947 and 1949 the material from Garstang’s excavations at Meroe came to the museum, and in 1955 Liverpool University placed substantial amounts from its own collections within the museum, including many items from Beni Hasan and Abydos. In 1956 the museum purchased almost the entire non-British collections of the Norwich Castle Museum. This included EES excavated material from Amarna and other sites, botanical remains from Kahun and the private collection of Sir Henry Rider Haggard. In 1973 the collection was increased further by the acquisition of part of the Sir Henry Wellcome Collection, and by the bequest of Colonel J. R. Danson in 1976, which included more material from Amarna and from Garstang’s excavations at Abydos.\n\nA handy lavishly illustrated guide to the collection is available: \"Gifts of the Nile\" (London: HMSO, 1995).\n\nFollowing a successful application to the Museums & Galleries Improvement Fund of the DCMS and the Wolfson Foundation the museum will be opening a new Egypt gallery in August 2008. The project with a total budget of £600,000 aims to build on the success of the hugely popular World Museum by revitalising the Egyptian gallery, which is now 30 years old.\n\nThe ethnology collection at World Museum ranks among the top six collections in the country. The four main areas represented are: Africa, the Americas, Oceania and Asia. The exhibition includes interactive displays.\n\nIn the Natural World area can be seen a range of exhibits, including live colonies of insects and historic zoological and botanical exhibits.\n\nThe 13th Earl of Derby founded the original museum with a major donation of zoological specimens in 1851, including many rare and 'type' specimens, the ones that act as standards for the species. There also specimens of several extinct species housed in the museum, including the Liverpool pigeon, the great auk (and an egg), the Falkland Islands wolf, the South Island piopio, the Lord Howe swamphen, the dodo, the long-tailed hopping mouse, and the thylacine. Another attraction in the Natural world area is an art gallery with pictures of natural artist Edward Lear.\n\nThe museum’s collections have grown considerably since then and now also include important botanical specimens dating back over 200 years, which represent most of Britain and Ireland’s native flora. Visitors can examine the collections up close in the award-winning Clore Natural History Centre, where there are interactive displays.\n\nThe geological collection at World Museum contains over 40,000 fossils as well as extensive rock and mineral collections. Each of these exhibits show information about the origins, structure and history of the planet earth.\n\nFounded in 1858, only seven years after the museum's establishment, much of the original collection was destroyed during the Second World War. The post-war collections have expanded considerably, thanks in part to the acquisition of several significant museum and university collections.\n\nThe largest of these was the University of Liverpool's geological collection that includes some 6,600 fossil specimens. The collection covers the following areas: palaeontology, rocks and\nminerals.\n\n"}
