{"id": "12589627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12589627", "title": "Agate Bowl", "text": "Agate Bowl\n\nThe Agate Bowl () is a bowl cut out of a single piece of agate in the fourth century at the court of Constantine, and now displayed in the Imperial Treasury at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna, Austria. For centuries it was widely regarded as the \"greatest masterpiece\" and the \"best and most important piece\" in the collection. In 1564, Holy Roman Emperor Maximillian II and his brothers declared it by deed to be an \"inalienable heirloom of the house of Austria\". They valued this ancient precious stone carving, not just for its craftsmanship, but for a \"natural miracle\" in the stone itself that reveals a mysterious inscription—the name \"XRISTO\" (\"Christ\") at the bottom of the bowl within the grain of the stone. It is now generally believed that the inscription inspired the legend that the bowl was the Holy Grail. The Agate Bowl is the largest carved stone bowl in the world.\n\nThe Agate Bowl is 76 cm (30 in) wide including the handles. The bowl is cut from a single, massive block of agate, the largest carved stone bowl in the world.\n\nThe Agate Bowl dates from the fourth century and is believed to have been created at the court of Constantine. Its first documented reference is in a deed from 1564 written by Holy Roman Emperor Maximillian II and his brothers, declaring the bowl to be an \"inalienable heirloom of the house of Austria\", to be owned by the entire House of Habsburg. In 1619, an inventory of the estate of Holy Roman Emperor Matthias records, \"the word KRISTO is to be seen in quite large letters in the nature of the stone\".\n\nFrom the seventeenth to the twentieth century, documented descriptions of an inscription \"B.XRISTO.RI.XXPP\" was seen as a reference to Jesus Christ. Because the writing seemed to be neither painted nor carved in the bowl, but appeared in the natural veining of the stone itself, the Agate Bowl was regarded a relic, even considered to be the Holy Grail.\n\nIn 1951, after the relic was restored, the inscription was reinterpreted by art historian Rudolf Egger to read \"ARISTO\", the name of the stone cutter. Others believe the inscription is in fact an optical illusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14030025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14030025", "title": "Architectural metals", "text": "Architectural metals\n\nMetals used for architectural purposes include lead, for water pipes, roofing, and windows; tin, formed into tinplate; zinc, copper and aluminium, in a range of applications including roofing and decoration; and iron, which has structural and other uses in the form of cast iron or wrought iron, or made into steel. Metal alloys used in building include bronze (mainly copper and tin); brass (copper and zinc); monel metal and nickel silver, mainly consisting of nickel and copper; and stainless steel, with important components of nickel and chromium.\n\nThe low melting point of lead permitted its use on a wide scale throughout human history. Water pipes were frequently constructed of lead, until its health hazards were publicised in the late 19th century.\n\nLead has been a popular roofing material for centuries, being used for roofing, flashing, gutters, downspouts, and conductor heads. Lead was best suited for low-pitched roofs, as steep roofs experienced creep. Lead roofs in regions with large temperature fluctuations, such as the mid-Atlantic states, experienced deterioration from constant expansion and contraction, called fatigue. Beginning in the 19th century, a roofing material called “terne” or “terneplate” was used, consisting of sheet iron or sheet steel coated with a lead-tin alloy. It is frequently confused with tinplate.\n\nLead came was also frequently used for window panes in skylights and stained glass. It was also used for small pieces of sculpture and garden ornamentation. Lead was frequently added to paint, with red lead used as an anti-corrosive pigment for iron, and white lead used as paint for wooden houses. Lead-based paint was one of the most durable materials developed as a protective exterior coating. The use of lead paint has been restricted on most buildings, due to concerns of lead poisoning.\n\nThe principal architectural uses of tin fall into two categories: the alloying of tin with other metals such as copper to form bronze, and the coating of tin on harder metals, such as tinplated iron or steel. Architectural bronzes usually contain about 90% copper and 10% tin, although the content may vary widely. The term “tin ceiling” is a misnomer, as these decorative sheets were never tinned; they were almost always painted sheet iron or steel.\n\nTinplate was a type of architectural material consisting of sheet iron coated with tin. “Tin roofs,” a type of tinplate, was originally used for armor but eventually as a roofing material. Tinplate was also used for decoration, such as ornamental windows, door lintels. Although tinplate is still available today for roofing and flashing, it is generally considered expensive since the initial cost is more than that for common modern roofing types such as asphalt shingles or built-up roofs. A well-maintained tinplate roof typically lasts several times longer than either of these types of roofing, and is more economical when the longer lifespan is taken into account.\n\nPure zinc was used for roofing in Belgium, France and Germany, where it replaced more expensive copper and lead in roofing. Starting in the 1820s, Belgian sheet zinc was imported in America, used by builders in New York City and elsewhere. Pure zinc is subject to creep at ordinary temperatures.\n\nZinc-coated metals were first patented in 1837, separately by M. Sorel in France and H. W. Crawford in England. The methods employed a “hot dipping” process to coat sheet iron with zinc. By 1839 “galvanized” sheet iron roofing was being used in New York City. The Merchant's Exchange in Manhattan was one of the first buildings to have both a galvanized roof and galvanized gutters. Some galvanized sheet roofing was pressed with designs, a popular technique in the Victorian era.\n\nZinc was also cast for sculptures and decorative elements in Germany and Austria as early as 1832. Decorative architectural elements were frequently cast in zinc, since it molded readily, was inexpensive compared to stone, and could be painted to imitate more expensive metals.\n\nZinc oxide paints were nontoxic and resistant to pollution. They became commercially successful and readily available in America in about 1850 and used widely starting around the 1870s. They had the added benefit of being good rust inhibitors on iron and steel.\n\nDuring the early decades of the 20th century, the use of pure zinc roofing and ornament decreased in use in the US. It is now gaining popularity in its pure form (99.95%)for building materials. Typically, architectural grade zinc is 99.995 percent pure zinc with trace amounts of titanium, to reduce coefficient of thermal expansion and improve tensile strength and hardness, and copper to improve workability. Exact alloy composition is subject to manufacturer and is a color determinant in zinc's final patina. Over time, zinc develops its distinctive patina, transforming from a shiny silver to a matte bluish-grey. Pre patinated finishes are available from certain manufacturers to expedite the natural patination process. Zinc is still used in alloys such as brass and nickel silver, and in the electroplating of steel as well. Today, galvanized steel and pure zinc material, usually Double Locked Standing Seam panels, are used for roofing a variety of buildings. Creep has been reduced by the introduction of titanium in most architectural zinc available in North America. Galvanized nails and sheet metal ducts are also common.\n\nArchitectural grade zinc is 90 to 95% recycled. Replacement costs are negligible with a long lifetime of 80 to 100 years for zinc roofing and 200 to 300 years for wall systems. This long-life durability is a key component in durability. At the end of its service life, zinc building products can be recycled indefinitely without loss to chemical or physical properties. The use of architectural grade zinc can help building qualify for LEED certification due to its high recycled content and sustainability.\n\nCopper is a very durable metal, withstanding corrosion when forming a bluish-green patina that variably consists of copper carbonates, sulfates, sulfides, and chlorides. Sheet copper used as roofing is lighter than wooden shingles and much lighter than slate, tile, or lead. Roofing copper can be folded readily into waterproof seams, or shaped over curved frameworks for cupolas and domes.\n\nThe initial cost of copper was traditionally high, but its length of service more than compensated for the price. Copper could also be shaped to the bends and angles around chimneys and at roof edges and dormers. All nails, screws, bolts, and cleats used with sheet copper must be made of copper or a copper alloy, otherwise galvanic action between the dissimilar metals would occur, causing deterioration.\n\nCopper was also used for decorative purposes, including architectural ornaments or sculptures. One famous example is the Statue of Liberty.\n\nCopper alloys used in architecture include bronze, an alloy of copper and tin, and brass, an alloy of copper and zinc.\n\nAlthough somewhat rare, nickel has been used for plating architectural details. Nickel is most frequently used for building components in the form of alloys: nickel silver, Monel metal, and stainless steel.\n\nNickel silver was originally called “German Silver,” until World War I. It has been called “white brass” but probably should be termed “nickel brass,” because it generally contains 75% copper, 20% nickel, and 5% zinc. Different percentages result in a range of colors, including silvery-white, yellow, slight blue, green or pink. Nickel silver hardware was popular in the US during the Art Deco and Depression Modern periods. Architects and designers preferred nickel silver because it could take and retain appropriate finishes, and it resisted corrosion.\n\nMonel metal is an alloy of approximately two-thirds nickel and one-third copper. It is similar to platinum in color. Monel pioneered many of the present uses of stainless steel. The first architectural use of Monel was for roofing the Pennsylvania Railroad Terminal in New York City in 1909. In 1936, the copper roof on the New York City Public Library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street was replaced with a Monel metal roof. Its advantages as a roofing material included its ability to be brazed, welded, or soldered in place to provide a watertight, continuous cover. Monel was popular during the Art Deco periods. During World War II large quantities of nickel and copper were diverted to the war effort, and the supply of Monel was greatly reduced. Following the war, stainless steel and aluminium replaced Monel because of lower production costs.\n\nIron has become an important architectural building component. It has been used in four common forms: wrought iron, cast iron, sheet iron, and steel.\n\nWrought iron was used for minor structural and decorative elements starting in the 18th century. Until the mid-19th century, the use of wrought iron in buildings was generally limited to small items such as tie rods, straps, nails, and hardware, or to decorative ironwork in balconies, railings fences and gates. Around 1850 its structural use became more widespread as iron mills began to roll rails, bulb-tees, and eventually I-beams. It was also used for decorative purposes, such as ornamental balconies or hardware. Since wrought iron is handmade, no two pieces are identical.\n\nCast iron was a major 19th century building material of the Industrial Revolution. Although brittle, it is remarkably strong in compression. It was frequently used for structural purposes, such as columns, building fronts, domes and light courts. Decorative uses have included stairs, elevators, lintels, grilles, verandas, balconies, railings, fences, streetlights, and tombs. The Bradbury Building is an example of extensive decorative cast iron. Today, cast iron is used for plumbing fixtures and piping in new construction, and its structural and decorative use is used occasionally through historic preservation practices.\n\nSheet iron can be subject to rapid corrosion, forming rust. Sheet iron was used throughout the 19th century, although it is not clear how widespread sheet iron roofs became. Pressed decorative sheet iron used for ceilings was frequently called a “tin ceiling,” although tin was generally not used indoors.\n\nSteel was introduced to the construction industry at the end of the 19th century. The development of structural steel in the mid-19th century allowed construction of tall buildings. Builders and manufacturers turned to steel, which was stronger than cast iron in compression and wrought iron in tension. When the Bessemer process was developed in England in 1856, and the open-hearth process was invented, steel was produced in a quantity that allowed it to be economical. Bridges, railroad companies, and skyscrapers were among the first large-scale uses of structural steel. Although iron and steel are not combustible, they lose strength in a fire if they are not protected from the heat. Almost all structural steel must be “fireproofed” in some manner, utilizing a cladding of terra-cotta, tile, plaster-poured concrete, sprayed concrete, or sprayed insulation. Ferro concrete, also called reinforced concrete, was developed in the late 19th century when steel wire was added to concrete.\n\nDecorative steels used in buildings include:\n\nMuch like copper, Aluminium is highly resistant to corrosion. It also has the added benefit of being a third lighter than steel with comparable strength. Aluminium can also be easily and repeatedly recycled. It has been estimated that of the estimated 900 million tonnes of aluminium produced since 1880, three quarters is still in productive use, 35% of which is in building construction.\n\nAluminium was unavailable at reasonable cost or in sufficient quantities for general architectural use until after the beginning of the 20th century. Architectural use of aluminum increased in the 1920s, mainly for decorative detailing. It was used for roofing, flashing, gutters, downspouts, wall panels, and spandrels. Art Deco designs frequently used aluminum for ornamental features. The first extensive use of aluminum in construction was the Empire State Building, where the entire tower portion is aluminum, as well as many decorative features, such as the entrances, elevator doors, ornamental trim, and some 6,000 window spandrels. Today, aluminum is used frequently in construction except major structural members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31486059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486059", "title": "Association of Educational Psychologists", "text": "Association of Educational Psychologists\n\nThe Association of Educational Psychologists is a trade union in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe British Psychological Society represented educational psychologists until 1962, when it received chartered status. Those members who wished to remain part of a body able to negotiate on their behalf formed the \"Association of Educational Psychologists\", although it delegated the actual negotiations to the National Union of Teachers and the Ulster Teachers Union.\n\nIn 1997, the organisation took over negotiation duties from the National Union of Teachers, and in 1999, it affiliated to the Trades Union Congress. It only began accepting members in Scotland in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "57533523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57533523", "title": "Baltistics", "text": "Baltistics\n\nBaltistics is a multidisciplinary study of language and culture (history, literature, folklore, mythology) of the Baltic nations. Baltistics by its subject splits into Lithuanistics, Latvistics, Prussistics, etc. Special attention is paid to the language studies, especially to the Baltic protolanguage.\nCurrently there are about 30 centres of Baltistics, most of them based in Europe, the University of Vilnius considered to be the most active centre.\n\nFirst signs of researching and comparing of the Baltic languages – Lithuanian and Latvian – were seen in the writings of the grammar creators (Daniel Klein, \"Grammatica Litvanica\" 1653, Gotthard Friedrich Stender, \"Lettische Grammatik\" 1783). For the first time, scientifically Baltic languages were researched and compared with other Indo-European languages in the 19th century, when Franz Bopp in 1816 laid the ground for comparative linguistics. In his \"Vergleichende Grammatik\", published in 1833, Lithuanian was included. Prussian language was researched by Georg Heinrich Ferdinand Nesselmann (\"Die Sprache der alten Preussen an ihren Ueberresten erlaeutert\", 1845) and Erich Berneker (\"Die preussische Sprache\", 1896). It was Nesselmann who first suggested the term \"Baltic languages\".\n\nFrom 1718 to 1944, a seminar for the study of the Lithuanian language took place in the University of Königsberg.\n\nFranz Bopp, Christian Schweigaard Stang, Rasmus Rask, Vilhelm Thomsen, Georg Nesselmann, Kazimieras Jaunius, Kazimieras Būga, Jonas Kazlauskas, Vytautas Mažiulis, Zigmas Zinkevičius, Aleksandras Vanagas, August Schleicher, Ernst Frenkel, Jurgis Gerulis, Vladimir Toporov, Michel Jonval, Jan Otrębski, Marija Gimbutas, Jānis Endzelīns\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23275904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23275904", "title": "Baroque music", "text": "Baroque music\n\nBaroque music ( or ) is a period or style of Western art music composed from approximately 1600 to 1750. This era followed the Renaissance music era, and was followed in turn by the Classical era. Baroque music forms a major portion of the \"classical music\" canon, and is now widely studied, performed, and listened to. Key composers of the Baroque era include Johann Sebastian Bach, Antonio Vivaldi, George Frideric Handel, Claudio Monteverdi, Domenico Scarlatti, Alessandro Scarlatti, Henry Purcell, Georg Philipp Telemann, Jean-Baptiste Lully, Jean-Philippe Rameau, Marc-Antoine Charpentier, Arcangelo Corelli, Tomaso Albinoni, François Couperin, Giuseppe Tartini, Heinrich Schütz, Giovanni Battista Pergolesi, Dieterich Buxtehude, and Johann Pachelbel.\n\nThe Baroque period saw the creation of common-practice tonality, an approach to writing music in which a song or piece is written in a particular key; this kind of arrangement has continued to be used in almost all Western popular music. During the Baroque era, professional musicians were expected to be accomplished improvisers of both solo melodic lines and accompaniment parts. Baroque concerts were typically accompanied by a basso continuo group (comprising chord-playing instrumentalists such as harpsichordists and lute players improvising chords from a figured bass part) while a group of bass instruments—viol, cello, double bass—played the bassline. A characteristic Baroque form was the dance suite. While the pieces in a dance suite were inspired by actual dance music, dance suites were designed purely for listening, not for accompanying dancers.\n\nDuring the period, composers and performers used more elaborate musical ornamentation (typically improvised by performers), made changes in musical notation (the development of figured bass as a quick way to notate the chord progression of a song or piece), and developed new instrumental playing techniques. Baroque music expanded the size, range, and complexity of instrumental performance, and also established the mixed vocal/instrumental forms of opera, cantata and oratorio and the instrumental forms of the solo concerto and sonata as musical genres. Many musical terms and concepts from this era, such as toccata, fugue and concerto grosso are . Dense, complex polyphonic music, in which multiple independent melody lines were performed simultaneously (a popular example of this is the fugue), was an important part of many Baroque choral and instrumental works.\n\nThe term \"baroque\" comes from the Portuguese word \"barroco\", meaning \"misshapen pearl\". Negative connotations of the term first occurred in 1734, in a criticism of an opera by Jean-Philippe Rameau, and later (1750) in a description by Charles de Brosses of the ornate and heavily ornamented architecture of the Pamphili Palace in Rome. Although the term continued to be applied to architecture and art criticism through the 19th century, it was not until the 20th century that the term \"baroque\" was adopted from Heinrich Wölfflin's art-history vocabulary to designate a historical period in music.\n\nThe term \"baroque\" is generally used by music historians to describe a broad range of styles from a wide geographic region, mostly in Europe, composed over a period of approximately 150 years. Although it was long thought that the word as a critical term was first applied to architecture, in fact it appears earlier in reference to music, in an anonymous, satirical review of the première in October 1733 of Rameau's \"Hippolyte et Aricie,\" printed in the \"Mercure de France\" in May 1734. The critic implied that the novelty in this opera was \"du barocque\", complaining that the music lacked coherent melody, was filled with unremitting dissonances, constantly changed key and meter, and speedily ran through every compositional device.\n\nThe systematic application by historians of the term \"baroque\" to music of this period is a relatively recent development. In 1919, Curt Sachs became the first to apply the five characteristics of Heinrich Wölfflin's theory of the Baroque systematically to music. Critics were quick to question the attempt to transpose Wölfflin's categories to music, however, and in the second quarter of the 20th century independent attempts were made by Manfred Bukofzer (in Germany and, after his immigration, in America) and by Suzanne Clercx-Lejeune (in Belgium) to use autonomous, technical analysis rather than comparative abstractions, in order to avoid the adaptation of theories based on the plastic arts and literature to music. All of these efforts resulted in appreciable disagreement about time boundaries of the period, especially concerning when it began. In English the term acquired currency only in the 1940s, in the writings of Bukofzer and Paul Henry Lang.\n\nAs late as 1960, there was still considerable dispute in academic circles, particularly in France and Britain, whether it was meaningful to lump together music as diverse as that of Jacopo Peri, Domenico Scarlatti, and Johann Sebastian Bach under a single rubric. Nevertheless, the term has become widely used and accepted for this broad range of music. It may be helpful to distinguish the Baroque from both the preceding (Renaissance) and following (Classical) periods of musical history.\n\nThe Baroque period is divided into three major phases: early, middle, and late. Although they overlap in time, they are conventionally dated from 1580 to 1630, from 1630 to 1680, and from 1680 to 1730.\n\nThe Florentine Camerata was a group of humanists, musicians, poets and intellectuals in late Renaissance Florence who gathered under the patronage of Count Giovanni de' Bardi to discuss and guide trends in the arts, especially music and drama. In reference to music, they based their ideals on a perception of Classical (especially ancient Greek) musical drama that valued discourse and oration. As such, they rejected their contemporaries' use of polyphony (multiple, independent melodic lines) and instrumental music, and discussed such ancient Greek music devices as monody, which consisted of a solo singing accompanied by a kithara (an ancient strummed string instrument). The early realizations of these ideas, including Jacopo Peri's \"Dafne\" and \"L'Euridice\", marked the beginning of opera, which were a catalyst for Baroque music.\n\nConcerning music theory, the more widespread use of \"figured bass\" (also known as \"thorough bass\") represents the developing importance of harmony as the linear underpinnings of polyphony. Harmony is the end result of counterpoint, and figured bass is a visual representation of those harmonies commonly employed in musical performance. With figured bass, numbers, accidentals or symbols were placed above the bassline that was read by keyboard instrument players such as harpsichord players or pipe organists (or lutenists). The numbers, accidentals or symbols indicated to the keyboard player what intervals she should play above each bass note. The keyboard player would improvise a chord voicing for each bass note. Composers began concerning themselves with harmonic progressions, and also employed the tritone, perceived as an unstable interval, to create dissonance (it was used in the dominant seventh chord and the diminished chord. An interest in harmony had also existed among certain composers in the Renaissance, notably Carlo Gesualdo; However, the use of harmony directed towards tonality (a focus on a musical key that becomes the \"home note\" of a piece), rather than modality, marks the shift from the Renaissance into the Baroque period. This led to the idea that certain sequences of chords, rather than just notes, could provide a sense of closure at the end of a piece—one of the fundamental ideas that became known as tonality.\n\nBy incorporating these new aspects of composition, Claudio Monteverdi furthered the transition from the Renaissance style of music to that of the Baroque period. He developed two individual styles of composition—the heritage of Renaissance polyphony (prima pratica) and the new basso continuo technique of the Baroque (seconda pratica). With basso continuo, a small group of musicians would play the bassline and the chords which formed the accompaniment for a melody. The basso continuo group would typically use one or more keyboard players and a lute player who would play the bassline and improvise the chords and several bass instruments (e.g., bass viol, cello, double bass) which would play the bassline. With the writing of the operas \"L'Orfeo\" and \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" among others, Monteverdi brought considerable attention to this new genre.\n\nThe rise of the centralized court is one of the economic and political features of what is often labelled the Age of Absolutism, personified by Louis XIV of France. The style of palace, and the court system of manners and arts he fostered became the model for the rest of Europe. The realities of rising church and state patronage created the demand for organized public music, as the increasing availability of instruments created the demand for chamber music, which is music for a small ensemble of instrumentalists.\n\nThe middle Baroque period in Italy is defined by the emergence of the vocal styles of cantata, oratorio, and opera during the 1630s, and a new concept of melody and harmony that elevated the status of the music to one of equality with the words, which formerly had been regarded as pre-eminent. The florid, coloratura monody of the early Baroque gave way to a simpler, more polished melodic style. These melodies were built from short, cadentially delimited ideas often based on stylized dance patterns drawn from the sarabande or the courante. The harmonies, too, might be simpler than in the early Baroque monody, and the accompanying bass lines were more integrated with the melody, producing a contrapuntal equivalence of the parts that later led to the device of an initial bass anticipation of the aria melody. This harmonic simplification also led to a new formal device of the differentiation of recitative (a more spoken part of opera) and aria (a part of opera that used sung melodies). The most important innovators of this style were the Romans Luigi Rossi and Giacomo Carissimi, who were primarily composers of cantatas and oratorios, respectively, and the Venetian Francesco Cavalli, who was principally an opera composer. Later important practitioners of this style include Antonio Cesti, Giovanni Legrenzi, and Alessandro Stradella.\n\nThe middle Baroque had absolutely no bearing on the theoretical work of Johann Fux, who systematized the strict counterpoint characteristic of earlier ages in his \"Gradus ad Parnassum\" (1725).\n\nOne pre-eminent example of a court style composer is Jean-Baptiste Lully. He purchased patents from the monarchy to be the sole composer of operas for the French king and to prevent others from having operas staged. He completed 15 lyric tragedies and left unfinished \"Achille et Polyxène\". Lully was an early example of a conductor; he would beat the time with a large staff to keep his ensembles together.\n\nMusically, he did not establish the string-dominated norm for orchestras, which was inherited from the Italian opera, and the characteristically French five-part disposition (violins, violas—in hautes-contre, tailles and quintes sizes—and bass violins) had been used in the ballet from the time of Louis XIII. He did, however, introduce this ensemble to the lyric theatre, with the upper parts often doubled by recorders, flutes, and oboes, and the bass by bassoons. Trumpets and kettledrums were frequently added for heroic scenes.\n\nArcangelo Corelli is remembered as influential for his achievements on the other side of musical technique—as a violinist who organized violin technique and pedagogy—and in purely instrumental music, particularly his advocacy and development of the concerto grosso. Whereas Lully was ensconced at court, Corelli was one of the first composers to publish widely and have his music performed all over Europe. As with Lully's stylization and organization of the opera, the concerto grosso is built on strong contrasts—sections alternate between those played by the full orchestra, and those played by a smaller group. Dynamics were \"terraced\", that is with a sharp transition from loud to soft and back again. Fast sections and slow sections were juxtaposed against each other. Numbered among his students is Antonio Vivaldi, who later composed hundreds of works based on the principles in Corelli's trio sonatas and concerti.\n\nIn contrast to these composers, Dieterich Buxtehude was not a creature of court but instead was church musician, holding the posts of organist and Werkmeister at the Marienkirche at Lübeck. His duties as Werkmeister involved acting as the secretary, treasurer, and business manager of the church, while his position as organist included playing for all the main services, sometimes in collaboration with other instrumentalists or vocalists, who were also paid by the church. Entirely outside of his official church duties, he organised and directed a concert series known as the Abendmusiken, which included performances of sacred dramatic works regarded by his contemporaries as the equivalent of operas.\n\nThe work of George Frideric Handel, Johann Sebastian Bach and their contemporaries, including Domenico Scarlatti, Antonio Vivaldi, Jean-Philippe Rameau, Georg Philipp Telemann, and others advanced the Baroque era to its climax. Through the work of Johann Fux, the Renaissance style of polyphony was made the basis for the study of composition for future musical eras. The composers of the late baroque had established their feats of composition long before the works of Johann Fux.\n\nA continuous worker, Handel borrowed from other composers and often \"recycled\" his own material. He was also known for reworking pieces such as the famous \"Messiah\", which premiered in 1742, for available singers and musicians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA characteristic of the Baroque form was the dance suite. Some dance suites by Bach are called partitas, although this term is also used for other collections of pieces. While the pieces in a dance suite were inspired by actual dance music, dance suites were designed for listening, not for accompanying dancers. Composers used a variety of different dance movements in their dance suites. A dance suite often consists of the following movements:\n\nThese four dance types (allemande, courante, sarabande, and gigue) make up the majority of 17th-century suites; later suites interpolate one or more additional dances between the sarabande and gigue:\n\nAdditionally, there are numerous other dance forms as well as other pieces that could be included in a suite, such as Polonaise, Loure, Scherzo, Air, etc.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165158", "title": "Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle", "text": "Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle\n\nBernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle (; 11 February 16579 January 1757), also called Bernard Le Bouyer de Fontenelle, was a French author and an influential member of three of the academies of the Institut de France, noted especially for his accessible treatment of scientific topics during the unfolding of the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nFontenelle was born in Rouen, France (then the capital of Normandy) and died in Paris just one month before his 100th birthday. His mother was the sister of great French dramatists Pierre and Thomas Corneille. His father, François le Bovier de Fontenelle, was a lawyer who worked in the provincial court of Rouen and came from a family of lawyers from Alençon. He trained in the law but gave up after one case, devoting his life to writing about philosophers and scientists, especially defending the Cartesian tradition. In spite of the undoubted merit and value of his writings, both to the laity and the scientific community, there is no question of his being a primary contributor to the field. He was a commentator and explicator and occasionally a passionate, though generally good-humoured, controversialist.\n\nHe was educated at the college of the Jesuits, the \"Lycée Pierre Corneille\" (although it did not adopt the name of his uncle (Pierre Corneille) until 1873, about 200 years later). At the Lycée he showed a preference for literature and distinguished himself.\n\nHe began as a poet, writing a poem in Latin at the age of 13 and more than once competed for prizes of the Académie française, but he never won anything. He visited Paris from time to time and became friendly with the abbé de Saint-Pierre, the abbé Vertot and the mathematician Pierre Varignon. He witnessed, in 1680, the total failure of his tragedy \"Aspar\". Fontenelle afterwards acknowledged the public verdict by burning his unfortunate drama. His libretto for Pascal Collasse's \"Thétis et Pélée\" (\"Thetis and Peleus\"), which premiered at the Opéra de Paris in January, 1689, was received with great acclaim. \n\nHis \"Lettres galantes du chevalier d'Her ...\", published anonymously in 1685, was a collection of letters portraying worldly society of the time. It immediately made its mark. In 1686 his famous allegory of Rome and Geneva, slightly disguised as the rival princesses Mreo and Eenegu, in the \"Relation de l'île de Bornéo\", gave proof of his daring in religious matters. But it was by his \"Nouveaux Dialogues des morts\" (1683) that Fontenelle established a genuine claim to high literary rank; and that claim was enhanced three years later by what has been summarised as the most influential work on the plurality of worlds in the period, \"Entretiens sur la pluralité des mondes\" (1686). He wrote extensively on the nature of the universe: \"Behold a universe so immense that I am lost in it. I no longer know where I am. I am just nothing at all. Our world is terrifying in its insignificance.\"\n\nFontenelle had made his home in Rouen, but in 1687 he moved to Paris; and in the same year he published his \"Histoire des oracles\", a book which made a considerable stir in theological and philosophical circles. It consisted of two essays, the first of which was designed to prove that oracles were not given by the supernatural agency of demons, and the second that they did not cease with the birth of Jesus. It excited the suspicion of the Church, and a Jesuit, by name Jean-François Baltus, published a ponderous refutation of it; but the peace-loving disposition of its author impelled him to leave his opponent unanswered. To the following year (1688) belongs his \"Digression sur les anciens et les modernes\", in which he took the modern side in the controversy then raging; his \"Doutes sur le système physique des causes occasionnelles\" (against Nicolas Malebranche) appeared shortly afterwards.\n\nHe remained influential in his older years and when a then unknown Jean-Jacques Rousseau met him in 1742, when Fontenelle was 85, he passed on the advice he gave all young writers that came to him: \"You must courageously offer your brow to laurel wreaths and your nose to blows.\"\n\nA noted gourmand, he attributed his longevity to eating strawberries. At ninety-two one woman wrote that he was as lively as a man of twenty-two. When, in his late nineties he met the beautiful Madame Helvétius, he reportedly told her, \"Ah Madame, if only I were eighty again!\"\n\nIn 1691 he was received into the French Academy in spite of the determined efforts of the partisans of the \"ancients\", especially Racine and Boileau, who on four previous occasions had ensured his rejection. He was thus a member both of the Academy of Inscriptions and of the Academy of Sciences; and in 1697 he became perpetual secretary to the latter, an office he held for forty-two years; and it was in this official capacity that he wrote the \"Histoire du renouvellement de l'Académie des Sciences\" (Paris, 3 vols., 1708, 1717, 1722) containing extracts and analyses of the proceedings, and also the \"éloges\" of the members, written with great simplicity and delicacy. Perhaps the best known of his \"éloges\", of which there are sixty-nine in all, is that of his uncle Pierre Corneille. This was first printed in the \"Nouvelles de la republique des lettres\" (January 1685) and, as \"Vie de Corneille\", was included in all the editions of Fontenelle's \"Œuvres.\" The other important works of Fontenelle are his \"Éléments de la géometrie de l'infini\" (1727) and his \"Théorie des tourbillons\" (1752). In the latter he supported the views of René Descartes concerning gravitation, material that by that time had effectively been superseded by the work of Isaac Newton.\n\nHe is noted for the accessibility of his work – particularly its novelistic style. This allowed non-scientists to appreciate scientific development in a time where this was unusual, and scientists to benefit from the thoughts of the greater society. If his writing is often seen as trying to popularize the astronomical theories of Descartes, whose greatest exponent he is sometimes considered, it also appealed to the literate society of the day to become more involved in \"natural philosophy,\" thus enriching the work of early-Enlightenment scientists. In spite of the inarguable value and quality of his writings, he had no serious pretensions to original scientific or mathematical work, but did not let that stop him from outspoken support for Descartes' proposed conceptions of the roles of vortices in physics.\n\nFontenelle was a popular figure in the educated French society of his period, holding a position of esteem comparable only to that of Voltaire. Unlike Voltaire however, Fontenelle avoided making important enemies. He balanced his penchant for universal critical thought with liberal doses of flattery and praise to the appropriate individuals in aristocratic society.\n\nFontenelle forms a link between two very widely different periods of French literature, that of Corneille, Racine and Boileau on the one hand, and that of Voltaire, D'Alembert and Diderot on the other. It is not in virtue of his great age alone that this can be said of him; he actually had much in common with the \"beaux esprits\" of the 17th century, as well as with the \"philosophes\" of the 18th. But it is to the latter rather than to the former period that he properly belongs.\nAccording to Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, he deserves a place \"\"dans la classe des esprits infiniment distingués\"—distinguished, however, it ought to be added by intelligence rather than by intellect, and less by the power of saying much than by the power of saying a little well.\nThere have been several collected editions of Fontenelle's works, the first being printed in 3 vols. at the Hague in 1728–1729. The best is that of Paris, in 8 vols., 1790. Some of his separate works have been frequently reprinted and also translated. The \"Pluralité des mondes\" was translated into modern Greek in 1794. Sainte-Beuve has an interesting essay on Fontenelle, with several useful references, in the \"Causeries du lundi\", vol. iii. See also Villemain, \"Tableau de la littérature française au XVIIIe siècle\"; the abbé Trublet, \"Mémoires pour servir à l'histoire de la vie et des ouvrages de M. de Fontenelle\" (1759); A Laborde-Milaà, \"Fontenelle\" (1905), in the \"Grands écrivains français\"\" series; and L. Maigron, \"Fontenelle, l'homme, l'œuvre, l'influence\" (Paris, 1906).\n\nHis \"\" show both his erudition and wit, by presenting invented – but plausible – dialogues between dead ancients, dead moderns and a whole book devoted to dialogues between an ancient and a modern. To Montaigne asking him if some centuries had more wise men than other, Socrates answers sadly that \"The general order of natures seems very constant\". In one of the books Roxelane and Anne Boleyn discuss about politics and the way for a woman to decide a man to marry her. The dialog between Montezuma and Cortez allows the former to dismiss some myths about the wisdom in ancient Greece by quoting some counter-examples.\n\nIn 1935, the lunar crater Fontenelle was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "33501440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33501440", "title": "Chaîne opératoire", "text": "Chaîne opératoire\n\nChaîne opératoire (French for “operational chain” or “operational sequence”) is a term used throughout anthropological discourse, but is most commonly used in archaeology and sociocultural anthropology. It functions as a methodological tool for analysing the technical processes and social acts involved in the step-by-step production, use, and eventual disposal of artifacts, such as lithic reduction (the making of stone tools) or pottery. This concept of technology as the science of human activities was first proposed by French archaeologist, André Leroi-Gourhan, and later by the historian of science, André-Georges Haudricourt. Both were students of Marcel Mauss who had earlier recognised that societies could be understood through its techniques by virtue of the fact that operational sequences are steps organised according to an internal logic specific to a society.\n\nThe chaîne opératoire was born out of the need to explicitly describe the methodology of lithic analysis in archaeological scholarship. It allows archaeologists to reconstruct the techniques used and the chronological ordering of the different steps required to produce an artifact. By understanding the processes and construction of tools, archaeologists can better determine the evolution of tool technology and the development of ancient cultures and lifestyles.\nArtifact analysis has undergone several changes throughout its history, shifting from an orientation as a natural science of prehistoric humans to a social and cultural anthropology of the production techniques of prehistoric societies. From this perspective, a chaîne opératoire can be understood as a social product, as it calls for an interdisciplinary approach to artifact analysis (the integration of associated disciplines: archaeology, sociocultural anthropology, biological anthropology, and anthropological linguistics), which offers a multidimensional view of a society, and demonstrates how chaînes opératoires cannot operate independently of the society that produces it. Consequently, the study of the technique - or chaîne opératoire - enables one to better understand not only the society in which the technique originated, but also the social context, actions, and cognition that accompanied the production of an object. \n\nCritics of chaîne opératoire argue that it is subjective because it is based upon the analyst's personal experience and intuition. They further claim that it is not a replicable or quantifiable approach to data collection. A second objection is that chaîne opératoire claims to be able to identify the intentions and goals of prehistoric knappers, including the \"desired endproducts\" of knapping sequences. However, what archaeologists select from an assemblage as 'end products' may not match what people in the past thought worthwhile to select for transport and subsequent use elsewhere in the landscape. A third major problem with the chaîne opératoire approach is that there is severe inconsistency in the application of definitions by lithic analysts. For example, since the publication of Boëda's definition of six nondisassociable criteria for Discoidal debitage, numerous variants have been proposed, and many authors have argued for the presence of Levallois concept even when those six criteria were not met.\n"}
{"id": "43874698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43874698", "title": "Citywide Educational Coalition", "text": "Citywide Educational Coalition\n\nThe Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC), is a tax-exempt, non-profit educational reform organization whose goal is to provide reliable and objective information on the Boston Public Schools to parents and citizens, enabling citizens to participate in policy making directly and through their school committee and increasing support for public education in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Citywide Education Coalition was created in Boston, Massachusetts in order to create a community agenda for the Boston Public Schools. Incorporated in 1973 with the mission of circulating clear and accurate information regarding education reform, the Coalition was actively involved in a number of major decisions influencing the Boston School System, including the desegregation of Boston Public Schools.\n\nThe CWEC was formed in 1972 by Mary Ellen Smith, who brought together parents and concerned citizens from across Boston who felt a need for involvement in the selection of a new superintendent of Boston Public Schools. This group, composed of parents, teachers, school administrators, church groups, community groups and concerned individuals came together around several major issues facing the Boston Public Schools: the search for superintendent, the need to improve quality of education in public schools, the desegregation crisis in Boston and the lack of reliable and accurate information about schools. Since its founding, the CWEC has focused its energy on monitoring the implementation of the desegregation order, community organizing around educational issues, representing citizens in areas of educational decision making and on research and public information activities.\n\nIn the 1954 landmark case, Brown v. Board of Education, the legal basis for segregation within public schools is dismantled. The ruling declared that racial segregation violates the rights of United States citizens according to the Constitution, which guarantees equal protection of laws for all American citizens.\n\nEighteen years later, in 1972, de facto segregation still existed in the Boston Public School System as a result of school districting practices by geographical location, which remained largely segregated within the city. A class action suit was filed on behalf of fifteen parents and forty-three children, with Tallulah Morgan as lead plaintiff, in the case that would come to be known as Morgan v. Hennigan. At that time sixty-eight schools in Boston were racially imbalanced and 30,000 Boston students used public transportation to get to school. In 1974, Judge W. Arthur Garrity sided with the plaintiffs in Morgan vs. Hennigan and stated Boston School Committee had engaged in segregation. Garrity then ordered the school committee to implement the State Board of Education's Racial Imbalance plan until they produced a plan of their own for desegregation. September 12, 1974 marked the first day of school under this new program. The anti-desegregation group Restore our Alienated Rights (ROAR) called for a two-week boycott of schools, which caused a violent reaction, especially in South Boston, and left eighteen school buses damaged citywide.\n\nDuring this time, members of the Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC) shifted focus to support the needs of the Boston school system, as well as its students and parents during this unstable period. By disseminating accurate information to parents through the Rumor Control Center and its newsletters, reports and parent guides, the Coalition actively participated in the desegregation of Boston schools. Throughout this volatile process, the Coalition developed safety procedures in the schools and along the bus routes, worked with students, parents, teachers and school administrators to improve the educational experience. The CWEC developed a mailing list of over 3,000 people in neighborhoods across the city of racial and ethnic groups and also mobilized over 500 parent volunteers who worked to promote calm and diffuse violence in neighborhoods throughout the city, in the process gathering supporters with a continuing interest in bettering the school system as a whole.\n\nBy stepping into the space created by the failure of the Boston School Department and the city to distribute credible information on the desegregation of public schools, the CWEC continued to build its constituency. This expanding support, in combination with the unprecedented focus on public schools as a result of the desegregation orders created the perfect environment for the CWEC to use segregation related issues as a vehicle for pursuing broader educational reform.\n\nThe Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC) has produced and widely circulated five major publications: Parents’ Guide to Magnet Schools (1977), Magnet School in Boston: A Guide for Parents and Students (1978), Survey of Magnet Schools in Three Cities (1978), Boston Public Schools: A Guide for Parents and Students (1979) and The Basic Skills Improvement Program: What Parents Should Expect (1979). The CWEC has also recruited and trained a number of parent researchers to assist the Boston School Department in their production of the 1980 Guide to Elementary and Magnet Schools as well as publishing annual analyses of the Boston Public School Budget.\nThese publications attempt to increase parent and citizen participation by providing clear, concise, objective information that is free of jargon and encourages parents and concerned citizens to act toward improving their child’s school and schools throughout the city.\n\nBeginning in August 1974, the CWEC published a monthly newsletter first known as “Coalition” and later as “Common Ground.” Nearly 20,000 copies were distributed each month with the help of volunteers to households throughout the city of Boston.\n\nOne of CWEC’s major projects was the creation of BPS Watch, a program that requires the Coalition decide upon a single issue facing the Boston Public Schools, such as reading competency, and research it in depth. The goal is to find ways in which this specific issue can be addressed by both the school and the community to improve its function within the school system.\n\nCWEC acts also in an advisory capacity and technical assistant to the School Department. Members have become focused on basic skill competency and have examined vocational/occupational education planning with Boston schools.\n"}
{"id": "48688856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48688856", "title": "Demet (magazine)", "text": "Demet (magazine)\n\nThe Ottoman women's magazine Demet (\"floral bouquet\") was founded in 1908 in Istanbul, two weeks after the proclamation of the Second Constitutional Era. Altogether, seven issues exist, they were published once a week. Editor-in-chief and publisher was Celāl Sāhir (1883–1935). Even though the magazine was aimed at women, the editorial team of the first two issues was made up exclusively of men, such as Mehmet Akif Ersoy (1873–1936), Selim Sırrı (Tarcan) (1874–1957), and Enis Avni (1886-1958). Among the female writers were later Halide Salih Hanımlar (Halide Edip, 1884–1964), Nigar Bint-i Osman (1862–1918), and İsmet Hakkı Hanım. In addition to literary and scientific articles, what interested the female readers most were political publications. Besides Kadınlar Dünyası (1913–1921), Maḥāsin (1908–1910), and Kadın (1908–1910), is considered one of the first and most important women's magazines in the Second Constitutional Era.\n\n"}
{"id": "313766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313766", "title": "Edward Burnett Tylor", "text": "Edward Burnett Tylor\n\nSir Edward Burnett Tylor (2 October 1832 – 2 January 1917) was an English anthropologist, the founder of cultural anthropology.\n\nTylor's ideas typify 19th-century cultural evolutionism. In his works \"Primitive Culture\" (1871) and \"Anthropology\" (1881), he defined the context of the scientific study of anthropology, based on the evolutionary theories of Charles Lyell. He believed that there was a functional basis for the development of society and religion, which he determined was universal. Tylor maintained that all societies passed through three basic stages of development: from savagery, through barbarism to civilization. Tylor is a founding figure of the science of social anthropology, and his scholarly works helped to build the discipline of anthropology in the nineteenth century. He believed that \"research into the history and prehistory of man... could be used as a basis for the reform of British society.\"\n\nTylor reintroduced the term \"animism\" (faith in the individual soul or \"anima\" of all things and natural manifestations) into common use.\nHe regarded animism as the first phase of development of religions.\n\nHe was born in 1832, in Camberwell, London, and was the son of Joseph Tylor and Harriet Skipper, part of a family of wealthy Quakers who owned a London brass factory. His elder brother, Alfred Tylor, became a geologist.\n\nHe was educated at Grove House School, Tottenham, but due to the deaths of Tylor's parents during his early adulthood he never gained a university degree. After his parents' deaths, he prepared to help manage the family business, but had to set this plan aside when he developed symptoms consistent with the onset of tuberculosis (TB). Following advice to spend time in warmer climes, Tylor left England in 1855, travelling to Mexico. The experience proved to be an important and formative one, sparking his lifelong interest in studying unfamiliar cultures.\n\nDuring his travels, Tylor met Henry Christy, a fellow Quaker, ethnologist and archaeologist. Tylor's association with Christy greatly stimulated his awakening interest in anthropology, and helped broaden his inquiries to include prehistoric studies.\n\nTylor's first publication was a result of his 1856 trip to Mexico with Christy. His notes on the beliefs and practices of the people he encountered were the basis of his work \"Anahuac: Or Mexico and the Mexicans, Ancient and Modern\" (1861), published after his return to England. Tylor continued to study the customs and beliefs of tribal communities, both existing and prehistoric (based on archaeological finds). He published his second work, \"Researches into the Early History of Mankind and the Development of Civilization\", in 1865. Following this came his most influential work, \"Primitive Culture\" (1871). This was important not only for its thorough study of human civilisation and contributions to the emergent field of anthropology, but for its undeniable influence on a handful of young scholars, such as J. G. Frazer, who were to become Tylor's disciples and contribute greatly to the scientific study of anthropology in later years.\n\nTylor was appointed Keeper of the University Museum at Oxford in 1883, and, as well as serving as a lecturer, held the title of the first \"Reader in Anthropology\" from 1884 to 1895. In 1896 he was appointed the first Professor of Anthropology at Oxford University. He was involved in the early history of the Pitt Rivers Museum, although to a debatable extent. Tylor acted as anthropological consultant on the first edition of the Oxford English Dictionary.\n\n\nThe word evolution is forever associated in the popular mind with Charles Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, which professes, among other things, that man as a species developed diachronically from some ancestor among the Primates who was also ancestor to the Great Apes, as they are popularly termed, and yet this term was not a neologism of Darwin’s. He took it from the cultural milieu, where it meant etymologically “unfolding” of something heterogeneous and complex from something simpler and more homogeneous. Herbert Spencer, a contemporary of Darwin, applied the term to the universe, including philosophy and what Tylor would later call culture. This view of the universe was generally termed evolutionism, while its exponents were evolutionists.\n\nIn 1871 Tylor published \"Primitive Culture\", becoming the originator of cultural anthropology. His methods were comparative and historical ethnography. He believed that a “uniformity” was manifest in culture, which was the result of “uniform action of uniform causes.” He regarded his instances of parallel ethnographic concepts and practices as indicative of “laws of human thought and action.” He was an evolutionist. The task of cultural anthropology therefore is to discover “stages of development or evolution.”\n\nEvolutionism was distinguished from another creed, diffusionism, postulating the spread of items of culture from regions of innovation. A given apparent parallelism thus had at least two explanations: the instances descend from an evolutionary ancestor, or they are alike because one diffused into the culture from elsewhere. These two views are exactly parallel to the tree model and wave model of historical linguistics, which are instances of evolutionism and diffusionism, language features being instances of culture.\n\nTwo other classifications were proposed in 1993 by Upadhyay and Pandey, Classical Evolutionary School and Neo Evolutionary School, the Classical to be divided into British, American, and German. The Classical British Evolutionary School, primarily at Oxford University, divided society into two evolutionary stages, savagery and civilization, based on the archaeology of John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury. Upadhyay and Pandey list its adherents as Robert Ranulph Marett, Henry James Sumner Maine, John Ferguson McLennan, and James George Frazer, as well as Tylor. Marett was the last man standing, dying in 1943. By the time of his death, Lubbock’s archaeology had been updated. The American School, beginning with Lewis Henry Morgan, was likewise superseded, both being replaced by the Neoevolutionist School, beginning with V. Gordon Childe. It brought the archaeology up-to-date and tended to omit the intervening society names, such as savagery; for example, Neolithic is both a tool tradition and a form of society.\n\nThere are some other classifications. Theorists of each classification each have their own criticisms of the Classical/Neo Evolutionary lines, which despite them remains the dominant view. Some criticisms are in brief as follows. There is really no universality; that is, the apparent parallels are accidental, on which the theorist has imposed a model that does not really fit. There is no uniform causality, but different causes might produce similar results. All cultural groups do not have the same stages of development. The theorists are arm-chair anthropologists; their data is insufficient to form realistic abstractions. They overlooked cultural diffusion. They overlooked cultural innovation. None of the critics claim definitive proof that their criticisms are less subjective or interpretive than the models they criticise.\n\nTylor's notion is best described in his most famous work, the two-volume \"Primitive Culture\". The first volume, The \"Origins of Culture\", deals with ethnography including social evolution, linguistics, and myth. The second volume, \"Religion in Primitive Culture\", deals mainly with his interpretation of animism.\n\nOn the first page of \"Primitive Culture\", Tylor provides a definition which is one of his most widely recognised contributions to anthropology and the study of religion:\n\nAlso, the first chapter of the work gives an outline of a new discipline, science of culture, later known as culturology.\n\nUnlike many of his predecessors and contemporaries, Tylor asserts that the human mind and its capabilities are the same globally, despite a particular society’s stage in social evolution. This means that a hunter-gatherer society would possess the same amount of intelligence as an advanced industrial society. The difference, Tylor asserts, is education, which he considers the cumulative knowledge and methodology that takes thousands of years to acquire. Tylor often likens primitive cultures to “children”, and sees culture and the mind of humans as progressive. His work was a refutation of the theory of social degeneration, which was popular at the time. At the end of \"Primitive Culture,\" Tylor writes, \"The science of culture is essentially a reformers' science.\"\n\nIn 1881 Tylor published a work he called \"Anthropology\", one of the first under that name. In the first chapter he uttered what would become a sort of constitutional statement for the new field, which he could not know and did not intend at the time:\n\nThe view was a restatement of ideas first innovated in the early 1860s. The theorist perhaps most influential on Tylor was John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury, innovator of the terminology, “Paleolithic” and “Neolithic.” A prominent banker and British liberal Parliamentarian, he was imbued with a passion for archaeology. The initial concepts of prehistory were his. Lubbock’s works featured prominently in Tylor’s lectures and in the Pitt Rivers Museum subsequently.\n\nA term ascribed to Tylor was his theory of \"survivals\". His definition of survivals is\n\n\"Survivals\" can include outdated practices, such as the European practice of bloodletting, which lasted long after the medical theories on which it was based had faded from use and been replaced by more modern techniques. Critics argued that he identified the term but provided an insufficient reason as to why survivals continue. Tylor’s meme-like concept of survivals explains the characteristics of a culture that are linked to earlier stages of human culture.\n\nStudying survivals assists ethnographers in reconstructing earlier cultural characteristics and possibly reconstructing the evolution of culture.\n\nTylor argued that people had used religion to explain things that occurred in the world. He saw that it was important for religions to have the ability to explain why and for what reason things occurred in the world. For example, God (or the divine) gave us sun to keep us warm and give us light. Tylor argued that animism is the true natural religion that is the essence of religion; it answers the questions of which religion came first and which religion is essentially the most basic and foundation of all religions. For him, animism was the best answer to these questions, so it must be the true foundation of all religions. Animism is described as the belief in spirits inhabiting and animating beings, or souls existing in things. To Tylor, the fact that modern religious practitioners continued to believe in spirits showed that these people were no more advanced than primitive societies. For him, this implied that modern religious practitioners do not understand the ways of the universe and how life truly works because they have excluded science from their understanding of the world. By excluding scientific explanation in their understanding of why and how things occur, he asserts modern religious practitioners are rudimentary. Tylor perceived the modern religious belief in God as a “survival” of primitive ignorance. However, Tylor did not believe that atheism was the logical end of cultural and religious development, but instead a highly minimalist form of monotheist deism. Tylor thus posited an anthropological description of \"the gradual elimination of paganism\" and disenchantment, but not secularization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15751083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15751083", "title": "Eugene England", "text": "Eugene England\n\nGeorge Eugene England, Jr. (22 July 1933 – 17 August 2001), usually credited as Eugene England, was a Mormon writer, teacher, and scholar. He founded \"\", the oldest independent journal in Mormon Studies, with G. Wesley Johnson, Paul G. Salisbury, Joseph H. Jeppson, and Frances Menlove in 1966, and cofounded the Association for Mormon Letters in 1976. He is also widely known in the LDS Church for his many essays about Mormon culture and thought. From 1977–1998, England taught Mormon Literature at Brigham Young University. England described the ideal modern Mormon scholar as \"critical and innovative as his gifts from God require but conscious of and loyal to his own unique heritage and nurturing community and thus able to exercise those gifts without harm to others or himself.\"\n\nEngland was born 22 July 1933 in Logan, Utah to George Eugene England and Dora Rose Hartvigsen England. He grew up in Downey, Idaho, where his father owned a wheat farm. At age 20, he married the former Charlotte Hawkins, with whom he was soon called to serve an LDS mission to Samoa.\n\nAfter serving as a captain in the U.S. Air Force, England entered graduate school at Stanford University, where he was both influenced by the 60s-era campus movement and the LDS Church as an active member and a leader in his student ward. While at Stanford, England met Wesley Johnson and together the two men conceived of and announced the formation of an academic journal on Mormon culture, \"\".\n\nLeaving Stanford, England taught at St. Olaf College in Minnesota, while completing work on his Ph.D., awarded in 1974. But he was forced to leave when some of his students expressed interest in Mormonism and their parents complained. He then taught at the University of Utah's LDS Institute of Religion for two years, before receiving a professorship at Brigham Young University.\n\nAt BYU, England was able to teach classes in Mormon literature and in 1976 he helped found the Association for Mormon Letters in order to raise the visibility of the study of Mormon literature. He also explored religious themes in important literary works. During his years at BYU England was at his most prolific, writing books of essays such as \"Dialogues with Myself\" and \"Why the Church Is as True as the Gospel,\" poetry, a biography and numerous articles. In 1981 England received a letter from Apostle Bruce R. McConkie chastising him for publicly advocating the view that God continues to learn new things. According to historian Claudia Bushman, \"the McConkie-England disagreement revealed the division between theological conservatives and liberals within the believing camp and, in a larger sense, the tensions between authoritarian control versus free expression.\"\n\nIn the last decade of his life, England felt increasingly under fire for his work, which led him to retire from BYU in 1998. He was then offered the position of writer in residence at Utah Valley State College in Orem, Utah. There he started the Center for the Study of Mormon Culture, as part of the college's religious studies program. Before England could fully develop the Center, he suffered a debilitating case of brain cancer. Despite an operation that removed two golf-ball sized cysts and a portion of a tumor, he died on 17 August 2001.\n\nAmong other positions held in the LDS Church at various times England served as both a Bishop and as a stake president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44605927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44605927", "title": "Evrydiki BA 2O37", "text": "Evrydiki BA 2O37\n\nEvrydiki BA 2O37 () is a 1975 Greek-West German co-production black and white dramatic experimental independent surrealist underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis, his debut feature film.\n\nDespite a lukewarm reaction by viewers, critics appreciated the innovative perspective on the classic Greek tragedy of Orpheus and Eurydice and noted the originality of Nikolaidis' artistic techniques. It is characteristic that Nikolaidis himself believed \"Evrydiki BA 2O37\" to be his best film.\n\nAndré Z. Labarrére and Olivier Labarrére, authors of \"Atlas du cinéma\", wrote that the film was one of the \"New Greek Cinema\" films that \"radically transformed the panorama.\"\n\nFor this film, Nikolaidis won the Best Director Award, the Greek National Ministry of Culture Award, as well as the Athens Film Critics Association Best Picture Award at the Thessaloniki Festival of Greek Cinema in September 1975, where Marie-Louise Bartholomew, who was involved in the production of the film, also won the Best Set Designer Award, and Andreas Andreadakis, who was involved in the editing of the film, also won the Best Editor Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52757", "title": "Final Fantasy VIII", "text": "Final Fantasy VIII\n\nFinal Fantasy VIII is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square for the PlayStation console. Released in 1999, it is the eighth main installment in the \"Final Fantasy\" series. Set on an unnamed fantasy world with science fiction elements, the game follows a group of young mercenaries, led by Squall Leonhart, as they are drawn into a conflict sparked by Ultimecia, a sorceress from the future who wishes to compress time. During the quest to defeat Ultimecia, Squall struggles with his role as leader and develops a romance with one of his comrades, Rinoa Heartilly.\n\nDevelopment began in 1997, during the English localization of \"Final Fantasy VII\". The game builds on the visual changes brought to the series by \"Final Fantasy VII\", including the use of 3D graphics and pre-rendered backgrounds, while also departing from many \"Final Fantasy\" traditions. It is the first \"Final Fantasy\" to use realistically proportioned characters consistently, feature a vocal piece as its theme music, and forego the use of magic points for spellcasting.\n\n\"Final Fantasy VIII\" was mostly well received by critics, who praised its originality and visuals while criticizing some of its gameplay elements. It was voted the 22nd-best game of all time in 2006 by readers of the Japanese magazine \"Famitsu\". The game was a commercial success; it earned more than US$50 million in sales during its first 13 weeks of release, making it the fastest-selling \"Final Fantasy\" title until \"Final Fantasy XIII\", a multi-platform release. A Microsoft Windows post followed in 2000, with the addition of the \"Chocobo World\" minigame. \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was re-released worldwide as a PSOne Classic on the PlayStation Store in 2009, for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable, with support for PlayStation Vita in 2012. It was re-released via Steam in 2013 and in Japan in 2014. As of December 2013, it has sold more than 8.5 million copies worldwide.\n\nLike the \"Final Fantasy\" games before it, \"Final Fantasy VIII\" consists of three main modes of play: the world map, the field map, and the battle screen. The world map is a 3D display in which the player may navigate freely across a small-scale rendering of the game world. Characters travel across the world map in a variety of ways, including by foot, car, Chocobo, train, and airship. The field map consists of controllable 3D characters overlaid on one or more 2D pre-rendered backgrounds, which represent environmental locations such as towns or forests. The battle screen is a 3D model of a location such as a street or room, where turn-based fights between playable characters and CPU-controlled enemies take place. The interface is menu-driven, as in previous titles, but with the typical weapon and armor systems removed and new features present, such as the Junction system. Also featured is a collectible card-based minigame called \"Triple Triad\".\nFor \"Final Fantasy VIII\", Hiroyuki Ito designed a battle system based on summoned monsters, called \"Guardian Forces\", abbreviated in-game as \"GF\". Assigning (\"junctioning\") a GF onto a character allows the player to use battle commands beyond \"Attack\" with the main weapon, such as Magic, GF (to have a junctioned GF perform an action), and Item. Previous \"Final Fantasy\" titles provided each character with a limited pool of magic points that were consumed by each spell; in \"Final Fantasy VIII\", spells are acquired (\"drawn\") either from enemies in battle, Draw Points distributed throughout the environments, or by refining items and cards. Spells are then stocked on characters as quantified inventory (up to 100 per spell and limited to 32 distinct spells per character) and are consumed one by one when used. Characters can also junction (equip) these spells onto their statistics—such as Strength, Vitality, and Luck—for various bonuses, provided the character has junctioned a Guardian Force. The junction system's flexibility affords the player a wide range of customization.\n\nThese expanded mechanics for summons were a departure for the series; in previous titles, summons were relegated to a single action during battle. The junction system also acts as a substitute for armor and accessories, which were used in earlier games to modify character statistics. Moreover, where earlier titles required weapons to be equipped and tailored to the character, each major character in \"Final Fantasy VIII\" features a unique weapon which can be upgraded, affecting its appearance, power, and Limit Break.\n\nAs in \"Final Fantasy VII\", characters in \"Final Fantasy VIII\" have unique abilities called \"Limit Breaks\", which range from powerful attacks to support spells. While the characters in \"Final Fantasy VII\" receive Limit Breaks after incurring significant damage, in \"Final Fantasy VIII\", Limit Breaks become available only at low health (hit points) under normal circumstances. The magic spell \"Aura\" increases the probability of Limit Breaks appearing, regardless of a character's remaining hit points, while various status afflictions can prevent Limit Breaks. They are similar to the Desperation Attacks of \"Final Fantasy VI\", albeit more frequent. \"Final Fantasy VIII\" also introduced interactive elements to complement Limit Break animations. These interactive sequences, which vary between character, weapon, and Limit Break, range from randomly selected magic spells to precisely timed button inputs. Successfully completing an interactive sequence increases the potency of the Limit Break.\n\"Final Fantasy VIII\" features an experience point (EXP) system quite different from previous titles. The essentials remain unchanged: characters gain EXP after defeating enemies, which are typically encountered randomly throughout the game's environments. Earning a set amount of EXP causes the character to gain a level, which increases their overall statistics. While previous titles feature an EXP curve that increases with each level (e.g. getting to level 2 requires 200 EXP, level 3 requires 400, etc.), characters in \"Final Fantasy VIII\" gain a level after accumulating a flat rate of 1000 points. Enemy levels are based on the party's average level; in most RPGs, enemy levels remain stagnant. Some bosses have level caps to prevent the main quest from becoming too difficult. Higher-level enemies are capable of inflicting and withstanding significantly more damage, may have additional special attacks, and carry additional magic spells, allowing for Junctioning bonuses which themselves far exceed the bonuses imparted by level-gain. The game's unique EXP and level system allows a player to grind to maximum Level 100 before even beginning the plot, though this will result in far more powerful enemies.\n\nIn addition to gaining levels, Guardian Forces earn Ability Points (AP) after battles, which are automatically allocated to special abilities that Guardian Forces can learn. When a Guardian Force has learned an ability, that ability becomes available for any character or the character party, as is the case with field abilities. These abilities allow characters to attack more efficiently, refine magic spells from items, receive stat bonuses upon leveling up, access shops remotely, and use additional battle commands.\n\nMost of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" is set on an unnamed fantasy world. The setting is highly European in design and features a blend of modern and futuristic locales. The planet contains five major landmasses, with Esthar, the largest, covering most of the eastern portion of the map. Galbadia, the second-largest continent, lies to the west, and contains many of the game's locations. The northernmost landmass is Trabia, an Arctic region. Positioned roughly in the middle of the world map lies Balamb, the smallest continent, the island on which the game begins. The remaining landmass is small and mostly desolate, riddled with rough, rocky terrain caused by the impact of a \"Lunar Cry\", an event where monsters from the moon fall to the planet. The southernmost landmass includes an archipelago of broken sections of land that have drifted apart. Islands and marine structures flesh out the game world, and a handful of off-world locations round out the playable areas.\n\nThe six main protagonists of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" are: Squall Leonhart, a loner who avoids vulnerability by focusing on his duty; Rinoa Heartilly, an outspoken and passionate young woman who follows her heart; Quistis Trepe, an instructor with a serious, patient attitude; Zell Dincht, an energetic martial artist with a fondness for hot dogs; Selphie Tilmitt, a cheerful girl who loves trains and pilots the airship \"Ragnarok\"; and Irvine Kinneas, a marksman and consummate ladies' man. All but Rinoa are members of \"SeeD\", an elite military force based out of futuristic installations called Gardens. Temporarily playable characters include Laguna Loire, Kiros Seagill, and Ward Zabac, who appear in \"flashback\" sequences; SeeD cadet-turned-antagonist Seifer Almasy, and sorceress Edea Kramer. The main antagonist is Ultimecia, a sorceress from the future who wishes to compress time.\n\nSquall and Seifer scar each other while training outside Balamb Garden. Meanwhile, the Republic of Galbadia invades the Dollet Dukedom, forcing Dollet to hire SeeD. The school uses the mission as a final exam for its cadets; with the help of his instructor, Quistis, Squall passes the mission's prerequisite and is grouped with Seifer and Zell. Selphie replaces Seifer mid-mission when the latter disobeys orders and abandons his team. SeeD halts the Galbadian advance; Squall, Zell, and Selphie graduate to SeeD status, but Seifer is disciplined for his disobedience. During the graduation party, Squall meets Rinoa, whose personality is the opposite of his. When assigned with Zell and Selphie to help Rinoa's resistance in Galbadian-occupied Timber, Squall learns that Sorceress Edea is behind Galbadia's recent hostilities. Under orders from Garden, Squall and his comrades—joined by Rinoa, Quistis, and Irvine—attempt to assassinate Edea. During the attempt, Squall's party also learns that Seifer has left Garden to become Edea's second-in-command. Edea survives the attempt, stabs Squall in the shoulder with an ice shard, and detains the party.\n\nAfter Squall's party escapes, Edea destroys Trabia Garden in a retaliatory missile strike and prepares to attack Balamb Garden. Selphie delays the launch while Squall's team returns to Balamb Garden and activates its mobile functions to evade the missiles. Garden cannot be controlled, however, and it crashes into the docks at Fishermans' Horizon. While Garden is being repaired, Galbadia invades the town in search of a girl named Ellone, who had been staying at Balamb Garden. Before leaving, Ellone reveals that she has been \"sending\" Squall and his team into flashbacks set 17 years earlier in a vain effort to alter history. The scenes center on Laguna and his friends as he evolves from Galbadian soldier to village protector to leader of an Estharian resistance against Sorceress Adel. Ellone eventually escapes to Esthar, the world's technological superpower.\n\nMeanwhile, Squall confronts his personal anxieties fueled by ongoing developments, such as Headmaster Cid appointing him as SeeD's new leader, and his increasing attraction to Rinoa. Squall and his comrades learn that they, along with Seifer and Ellone, were all raised (except for Rinoa) in an orphanage run by Edea; after eventual separation, they later developed amnesia due to their use of Guardian Forces. Cid and Edea had established Garden and SeeD primarily to defeat corrupt sorceresses. After these revelations, the forces of Balamb Garden defeat the Galbadian Army, led by Seifer, aboard Galbadia Garden. Edea is also defeated by SeeD; however, the party learns that Edea is merely an unwilling host for Ultimecia, who planned to use Ellone to help achieve time compression. Ultimecia transfers her powers to Rinoa; Edea survives, but Rinoa enters a coma. Squall travels to Esthar to find Ellone, as he believes that she can help save Rinoa.\n\nWhile Rinoa is being treated on Esthar's space station, Ultimecia uses her to free Adel from an orbital prison. Ultimecia then orders Seifer to activate the Lunatic Pandora facility, inciting a Lunar Cry that sends Adel's containment device to the planet. Having selected Adel as her next host, Ultimecia abandons Rinoa in outer space. Squall rescues her, and they return to the planet on a derelict starship and share a romantic moment; Ellone is captured by Galbadia shortly thereafter. After landing, the party encounters Laguna, now President of Esthar; he reveals Dr. Odine's plan to allow Ultimecia to cast time compression on their terms so that Ellone can send SeeD into Ultimecia's time period. At Lunatic Pandora, Squall's team defeats Seifer, rescues Ellone, and kills Adel; Ultimecia possesses Rinoa and begins casting time compression. Ellone sends Squall's team into Ultimecia's era, where she is defeated before time compression can be fully achieved.\n\nA dying Ultimecia travels back in time to pass her powers to Edea, but Squall inadvertently informs Edea of the concepts of Garden and SeeD that she will create. Squall is nearly lost in the flow of time as he witnesses the origins of the game's story, sporadic apparitions of Rinoa, and a faceless portrait of himself. With Rinoa's help, he recollects his memories and returns to the present. A repentant Seifer reunites with Raijin and Fujin, Laguna and his friends visit his lover's grave, the SeeD celebrate at Balamb Garden, and Squall and Rinoa share a kiss under the moonlight.\n\nDevelopment of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" began in 1997, during the English-language translation of \"Final Fantasy VII\". As with much of the production of \"Final Fantasy VII\", series creator and veteran Hironobu Sakaguchi served as the executive producer, working primarily on the development of \"\" and leaving direction of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" to Yoshinori Kitase. Shinji Hashimoto was assigned to be the producer in Sakaguchi's place, while the game and battle system were designed by Kitase and Hiroyuki Ito, respectively. One of the development difficulties encountered was having three real-time characters exploring an environment at the same time. The card game Triple Triad was conceived and implemented by programmer Kentarow Yasui. The concept was derived from trading cards which is a popular hobby in some parts of Japan. Triple Triad was meant to keep the player's interest during long stretches without cutscenes. Originally, it was simply about collecting cards but Yasui considered this too disconnected from the main game and \"begged\" for the inclusion of an ability to transform cards into items. The game's total development costs were approximately ¥3 billion, which equated to around $16 million without inflation. The staff consisted of about 180 people. American localization specialist Alexander O. Smith stated due to a lack of communication with the development team, they were surprised that an IT employee used a GameShark to access text files for localizing to Western audiences.\n\nFrom the beginning, Kitase knew he wanted a thematic combination of fantasy and realism. To this end, he aimed to include a cast of characters who appeared to be ordinary people. Character designer and battle visual director Tetsuya Nomura and art director Yusuke Naora strove to achieve this impression through the inclusion of realistically proportioned characters—a departure from the super deformed designs used in the previous title. Additionally, Naora attempted to enhance the realism of the world through predominantly bright lighting effects with shadows distributed as appropriate. Other measures taken included implementing rental cars for travel in-game, and the use of motion capture technology to give the game's characters lifelike movements in the game's full motion video sequences. The FMV sequences were created by a team of roughly 35 people, with the total cinematic run-time being estimated at over an hour, approximately 20 minutes longer than the FMV sequences in \"VII\". Motion capture was used to give a general realism to character movement, but the team favored manual animation over relying on motion capture. A major challenge was the technical advances made since the release of \"VII\", and the aim for more realistic characters. A major issue with the cutscenes was having real-time character models moving across environments within an FMV.\n\nIn an interview with \"Famitsu\", Naora described that the game was generally designed to be a \"bright, fresh \"Final Fantasy\".\" The main reason was that the team had dealt extensively with dark and \"weird\" imagery with \"VII\". The designers felt a need to invert the atmosphere of previous games in the series, which had feelings of \"light emerging from darkness\". This decision was easy for the developers to make, because most of them had worked on \"Final Fantasy VII\" and felt that a new direction was acceptable. The world designs were also developed with the knowledge that most of the staff were now used to computer graphics, which was not the case with \"Final Fantasy VII\". The developers also noted that with \"Final Fantasy VIII\", they attempted to \"mix future, real life and fantasy.\" As part of a theme desired by Kitase to give the game a foreign atmosphere, various designs were given to its locations using the style of internationally familiar places, while also maintaining a fantasy atmosphere. Inspiration ranged from ancient Egyptian and Greek architecture, to the city of Paris, France, to an idealized futuristic European society. Flags were also given to some factions, their designs based on the group's history and culture.\n\nTo maintain a foreign atmosphere, the characters of the game were designed to have predominantly European appearances. The first \"Final Fantasy VIII\" character created was Squall. Desiring to add a unique angle to Squall's appearance and emphasize his role as the central character, Nomura gave him a scar across his brow and the bridge of his nose. As there was not yet a detailed history conceived for the character, Nomura left the explanation for Squall's scar to scenario writer Kazushige Nojima. Squall was given a gunblade, a fictional revolver–sword hybrid that functions primarily as a sword, with an added damaging vibration feature activated by use of its gun mechanism, similar to a vibroblade. His character design was complemented by a fur lining along the collar of his jacket, incorporated by Nomura as a challenge for the game's full motion video designers. Additionally, some designs Nomura had previously drawn, but had not yet used in a \"Final Fantasy\" game, were incorporated into \"Final Fantasy VIII\". These were the designs of Edea, Fujin and Raijin. The latter two had originally been designed for use in \"Final Fantasy VII\", but with the inclusion of the Turks characters in that game, it was felt that Fujin and Raijin were unnecessary. Nomura had designed Edea before the development of \"Final Fantasy VII\", based on the style of Yoshitaka Amano. For the Guardian Forces, Nomura felt they should be unique beings, without clothes or other human-like concepts. This was problematic, as he did not want them to \"become the actual monsters\", so he took great care in their design. Leviathan was the first GF, created as a test and included in a game demo. After it received a positive reaction from players, Nomura decided to create the remaining sequences in a similar fashion.\n\nThe plot of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was conceived by Kitase, with the stories for the characters provided by Nomura and the actual scenario written by Nojima. During the game's pre-production, Nomura suggested the game be given a \"school days\" feel. Nojima already had a story in mind in which the main characters were the same age; their ideas meshed, taking form as the \"Garden\" military academies. Nojima planned that the two playable parties featured in the game (Squall's present day group and Laguna's group from the past) would be highly contrasted with one another. This idea was conveyed through the age and experience of Laguna's group, versus the youth and naïveté of Squall's group. Nojima has expressed that the dynamic of players' relationships with the protagonist is important to him. Both \"Final Fantasy VII\" and \"Final Fantasy VIII\" feature reserved, quiet protagonists in the form of Cloud Strife and Squall. With \"Final Fantasy VIII\", however, Nojima worked to give players actual insight into what the character was thinking; a direct contrast with his handling of \"Final Fantasy VII\", which encouraged the player to speculate.\n\nIn March 1999, one month after the game's release, \"Final Fantasy VIII Ultimania\" was published, a book that features an in-depth guide to \"Final Fantasy VIII\" and interviews with the developers. An origami book was released in November 1999. On September 22, 1999, a CD-ROM titled \"Final Fantasy VIII Desktop Accessories\" was released. It contains desktop icons, computer wallpapers, screensavers, and an e-mail application. It additionally features a stand-alone edition of the Triple Triad minigame, which allowed players to compete against one another via a local area network.\n\nAlso in 1999, the ballroom dance scene of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was featured as a technical demo for the PlayStation 2. In 2000, a PC version was released for Windows. This port featured smoother graphics, enhanced audio, and the inclusion of \"Chocobo World\", a minigame starring Boko, a Chocobo featured in one of the side-quests in \"Final Fantasy VIII\". For most North American and European players, the PC version of the game was the only means of playing \"Chocobo World\", as the game was originally designed to be played via the PocketStation, a handheld console never released outside Japan. In 2009, \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was added to the PlayStation Store on the PlayStation Network.\n\nOn December 18, 2012, the game was re-released as part of the \"Final Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box\" Japanese package. An upscaled PC version was announced May 17, 2013, and was released on Steam December 5, 2013.\n\nRegular series composer Nobuo Uematsu wrote the soundtrack for \"Final Fantasy VIII\". He tried to base the songs off of the emotional content of when they would be played, asserting that expressing the emotions he desires is more important than improving skills: \"I think it will be a shame if we won't be able to cry as we play our own game\". He could not determine a character's emotions solely based on the plot, instead using images of appearance and attire—\"It's important to know when their emotions are at their height, but it usually takes until a month before release for them to finish the ending dialog...!\" In response to a question by IGN music stating that the music of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was very dark and perhaps influenced by the plot of the game, Uematsu stated \"the atmosphere of music varies depending on story line, of course, but it's also my intention to put various types of music into one game\". The absence of character themes found in the previous two games was due to Uematsu finding those of \"Final Fantasy VI\" and \"Final Fantasy VII\" ineffective. Uematsu considers it reasonable to have character themes if each character has a \"highlight\" in the game, but he found \"Final Fantasy VIII\" only focused on Squall Leonhart and Rinoa Heartilly as a couple, resulting in the \"Eyes on Me\" theme.\n\nThe original soundtrack was released on four compact discs by DigiCube in Japan on March 10, 1999, and by Square EA in North America as \"Final Fantasy VIII Music Collection\" in January 2000. It was republished worldwide by Square Enix on May 10, 2004. An album of orchestral arrangements of selected tracks from the game was released under the title \"Fithos Lusec Wecos Vinosec Final Fantasy VIII\" on November 19, 1999, by DigiCube, and subsequently published on July 22, 2004, by Square Enix. The pieces were arranged and conducted by Shirō Hamaguchi for a live orchestra. A collection of piano arrangements performed by Shinko Ogata was released under the title \"Piano Collections: Final Fantasy VIII\" by DigiCube on January 21, 2000, and subsequently re-published by Square Enix on July 22, 2004.\n\nThe score is best known for two songs: \"Liberi Fatali\", a Latin choral piece that is played during the introduction to the game, and \"Eyes On Me\", a pop song serving as the game's theme, performed by Chinese singer Faye Wong. Near the end of the production of \"Final Fantasy VII\", the developers suggested to use a singer, but abandoned the idea due to a lack of reasoning based on the game's theme and storyline. However, Nobuo Uematsu thought a ballad would closely relate to the theme and characters of \"Final Fantasy VIII\". This resulted in the game's developers sharing \"countless\" artists, eventually deciding on Wong. Uematsu claims \"her voice and mood seem to match my image of the song exactly\", and that her ethnicity \"fits the international image of Final Fantasy\". After negotiations were made, \"Eyes on Me\" was recorded in Hong Kong with an orchestra. The song was released as a CD single in Japan and sold over 400,000 copies, setting the record for highest-selling video game music disc ever released in that country at the time. \"Liberi Fatali\" was played during the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens during the women's synchronized swimming event.\n\nThe music of \"Final Fantasy VIII\" has appeared in various official \"Final Fantasy\" concerts. These include 2002's \"20020220 Music from FINAL FANTASY\", in which the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra played \"Liberi Fatali\", \"Don't Be Afraid\", \"Love Grows\", and \"The Man with the Machine Gun\", the 2004 \"Tour de Japon\" series, which featured \"The Oath\", the \"Dear Friends\" series that began that same year and included \"Liberi Fatali\" and \"Love Grows\", and the 2005 \"More Friends\" concert, which included \"Maybe I'm a Lion\". More recent concerts include the \"Voices – Music from Final Fantasy\" 2006 concert showcasing \"Liberi Fatali\", \"Fisherman's Horizon\", and \"Eyes on Me\" and the international \"Distant Worlds\" concert tour that continues to date, which includes \"Liberi Fatali\", \"Fisherman's Horizon\", \"Man with the Machine Gun\", and \"Love Grows\". Several of these concerts have produced live albums as well. Music from the game has also been played in non \"Final Fantasy\"-specific concerts such as the \"Play! A Video Game Symphony\" world tour from 2006 onwards, for which Nobuo Uematsu composed the opening fanfare that accompanies each performance.\n\n\"Final Fantasy VIII\" received critical acclaim. Within two days of its North American release on September 9, 1999, \"Final Fantasy VIII\" became the top-selling video game in the United States, a position it held for more than three weeks. It was also a bestseller in Japan and the UK. It grossed a total of more than $50 million in the 13 weeks to follow, making it the fastest-selling \"Final Fantasy\" title. In Japan, it sold roughly 2.5 million units within the first four days of release. More than 6 million units were sold in total by the end of 1999. As of March 31, 2003, the game had shipped 8.15 million copies worldwide: 3.7 million in Japan and 4.45 million abroad. The opening cut scene in \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was ranked second on \"Game Informer\"s list of \"Top 10 Video Game Openings\", and first by IGN. GameSpy listed it as the 15th best cinematic moment in video games. IGN named the game's ending the third best of any game for the PlayStation, while UGO.com named it one of the series' best and most memorable moments. \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was voted by readers of Japanese magazine \"Famitsu\" as the 22nd best game of all time in 2006, and named one of the 20 essential Japanese role-playing games by Gamasutra, stating \"[t]here's a lot that \"Final Fantasy VIII\" does wrong, but there's even more that it does right\".\n\nReviews of the gameplay have been mixed. IGN felt that it was the weakest aspect of the game, citing its Guardian Force attack sequences as \"incredibly cinematic\" but tedious, sentiments echoed by \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\". They also regarded the battle system as intensely complicated, yet refreshingly innovative and something that \"RPG fanatics love to obsess over\". \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" claims that the game's Junction system is a major flaw due to repetitive stocking of spells, while the video game magazine \"Edge\" commented that the battle system consists of a \"bewildering\" number of intricate options and techniques that \"most gamers will [...] relish\". GameSpot praised the game's battle system, commenting that the \"possibilities for customization [with the Junction system] are immense\".\n\nIn general, \"Final Fantasy VIII\" has been compared favorably to its predecessors. Though questioning the game's lack of voice overs for its characters, Game Revolution praised its storyline and ending. For their part, \"Edge\" labeled \"Final Fantasy VIII\" \"a far more accomplished game than \"FFVII\"\". On the other hand, the magazine also felt that the game's length left its story unable to \"offer consistently strong dialogue and sub-plots\". Additionally, it found some of the story's plot twists \"not... suitably manipulated and prepared\", leaving it \"hard not to greet such... moments with anything but indifference\". Overall, \"Edge\" considered \"Final Fantasy VIII\" to be \"yet another outstanding edition of SquareSoft's far-from-final fantasies\", summarizing it as \"aesthetically astonishing, rarely less than compelling, and near peerless in scope and execution\". \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" offered similar comments, stating that the game's character development \"is the best of any RPG's\" and that \"\"Final Fantasy VIII\" is the pinnacle of its genre.\" UGO.com stated that while no other game in the series had stirred the controversy that \"Final Fantasy VIII\" had and that it was flawed, \"Final Fantasy VIII\" was a \"daring, groundbreaking game [...] decidedly the most original console-style RPG ever created\". In 2002, IGN named it the seventh best title for the PlayStation, placing higher on the list than \"Final Fantasy VII\"; the publication felt that \"Final Fantasy VIII\" improved on the strengths of its predecessor.\n\nThe PC port received mixed reception. \"Maximum PC\" praised the full motion video sequences as \"phenomenal\", adding that while the gameplay took getting used to, they enjoyed the teamwork emphasized by it, and that the game's visual presentation added to its appeal. GameSpy stated that while the game was not a \"huge leap forward\" from the previous title, its gameplay and visual appeal worked for its benefit, though that on a computer the pre-rendered backgrounds appeared blurry and the controls at time difficult with a keyboard. GameSpot criticized the game for not taking advantage of the capabilities afforded to computers at the time, describing the PlayStation version as both looking and sounding superior, and recommending that the title was \"not worth buying period\" for the PC. UGO.com also described the port as inferior to its original counterpart, adding that its presentation was in turn detrimental to the reception the game received as a whole. \"Computer Gaming World\" praised some of the changes made to the game in light of previous titles and the inclusion of the Triple Triad sub-game, though heavily criticized the port as \"lazy\" and \"disappointing\", stating that it only served to emphasize the original game's flaws. Despite their complaints, they named it the twentieth best game of 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "444600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444600", "title": "Flag of Oman", "text": "Flag of Oman\n\nThe national flag of Oman () consists of three stripes (white, green and red) with a red bar on the left that contains the national emblem of Oman (Dagger and two swords).\n\nUntil 1975, Oman used the plain red banner of the indigenous people. In 1970, the Sultan introduced a complete new set of national flags. Bands of green and white were added to the fly, and the national emblem, the badge of the Albusaidi Dynasty, was placed in the canton. This depicts crossed swords over a \"khanjar\", a traditional curved dagger. White has been associated historically with the Imam, the religious leader of Oman, and at times the political rival to the ruling Sultan. It also symbolizes peace. Green is traditionally associated with the Jabal al-Akdar, or \"Green Mountains,\" which lie toward the north of the country. Red is a common color in Gulf state flags. The national emblem is said to date back to the 18th century. A curved dagger is fastened over a pair of crossed swords. An ornate horsebit links the weapons.\n\nBetween 1970 and 1995, the size of the middle band of the triband was slimmer than the other two, making up approximately one fifth of its height, the other bands two-fifths.\n\nThe naval ensign shows an \"azure\" (blue) field, with the Oman in the canton or top-left quarter and the naval service emblem in the fly.\n\nThe standard of the Sultan of Oman shows a red fly, with a green border whose width is about one-sixth of the height of the flag, surrounded by a red border of about the same width. It bears the country's emblem as a charge in the center, colored gold.\n"}
{"id": "18020716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18020716", "title": "Formal grammar", "text": "Formal grammar\n\nIn formal language theory, a grammar (when the context is not given, often called a formal grammar for clarity) is a set of production rules for strings in a formal language. The rules describe how to form strings from the language's alphabet that are valid according to the language's syntax. A grammar does not describe the meaning of the strings or what can be done with them in whatever context—only their form.\n\nFormal language theory, the discipline that studies formal grammars and languages, is a branch of applied mathematics. Its applications are found in theoretical computer science, theoretical linguistics, formal semantics, mathematical logic, and other areas.\n\nA formal grammar is a set of rules for rewriting strings, along with a \"start symbol\" from which rewriting starts. Therefore, a grammar is usually thought of as a language generator. However, it can also sometimes be used as the basis for a \"recognizer\"—a function in computing that determines whether a given string belongs to the language or is grammatically incorrect. To describe such recognizers, formal language theory uses separate formalisms, known as automata theory. One of the interesting results of automata theory is that it is not possible to design a recognizer for certain formal languages.\nParsing is the process of recognizing an utterance (a string in natural languages) by breaking it down to a set of symbols and analyzing each one against the grammar of the language. Most languages have the meanings of their utterances structured according to their syntax—a practice known as compositional semantics. As a result, the first step to describing the meaning of an utterance in language is to break it down part by part and look at its analyzed form (known as its parse tree in computer science, and as its deep structure in generative grammar).\n\n's treatise \"Astadyayi\" gives formal production rules and definitions to describe the formal grammar of Sanskrit.\n\nA grammar mainly consists of a set of rules for transforming strings. (If it \"only\" consisted of these rules, it would be a semi-Thue system.) To generate a string in the language, one begins with a string consisting of only a single \"start symbol\". The \"production rules\" are then applied in any order, until a string that contains neither the start symbol nor designated \"nonterminal symbols\" is produced. A production rule is applied to a string by replacing one occurrence of the production rule's left-hand side in the string by that production rule's right-hand side (\"cf.\" the operation of the theoretical Turing machine). The language formed by the grammar consists of all distinct strings that can be generated in this manner. Any particular sequence of production rules on the start symbol yields a distinct string in the language. If there are essentially different ways of generating the same single string, the grammar is said to be ambiguous.\n\nFor example, assume the alphabet consists of \"a\" and \"b\", the start symbol is \"S\", and we have the following production rules:\n\nthen we start with \"S\", and can choose a rule to apply to it. If we choose rule 1, we obtain the string \"aSb\". If we then choose rule 1 again, we replace \"S\" with \"aSb\" and obtain the string \"aaSbb\". If we now choose rule 2, we replace \"S\" with \"ba\" and obtain the string \"aababb\", and are done. We can write this series of choices more briefly, using symbols: formula_3. The language of the grammar is then the infinite set formula_4, where formula_5 is formula_6 repeated formula_7 times (and formula_8 in particular represents the number of times production rule 1 has been applied).\n\nIn the classic formalization of generative grammars first proposed by Noam Chomsky in the 1950s, a grammar \"G\" consists of the following components:\nA grammar is formally defined as the tuple formula_16. Such a formal grammar is often called a rewriting system or a phrase structure grammar in the literature.\n\nThe operation of a grammar can be defined in terms of relations on strings:\n\nNote that the grammar formula_17 is effectively the semi-Thue system formula_32, rewriting strings in exactly the same way; the only difference is in that we distinguish specific \"nonterminal\" symbols, which must be rewritten in rewrite rules, and are only interested in rewritings from the designated start symbol formula_24 to strings without nonterminal symbols.\n\n\"For these examples, formal languages are specified using set-builder notation.\"\n\nConsider the grammar formula_27 where formula_35, formula_36, formula_24 is the start symbol, and formula_38 consists of the following production rules:\n\nThis grammar defines the language formula_43 where formula_44 denotes a string of \"n\" consecutive formula_6's. Thus, the language is the set of strings that consist of 1 or more formula_6's, followed by the same number of formula_47's, followed by the same number of formula_48's.\n\nSome examples of the derivation of strings in formula_49 are: \n\nWhen Noam Chomsky first formalized generative grammars in 1956, he classified them into types now known as the Chomsky hierarchy. The difference between these types is that they have increasingly strict production rules and can therefore express fewer formal languages. Two important types are \"context-free grammars\" (Type 2) and \"regular grammars\" (Type 3). The languages that can be described with such a grammar are called \"context-free languages\" and \"regular languages\", respectively. Although much less powerful than unrestricted grammars (Type 0), which can in fact express any language that can be accepted by a Turing machine, these two restricted types of grammars are most often used because parsers for them can be efficiently implemented. For example, all regular languages can be recognized by a finite state machine, and for useful subsets of context-free grammars there are well-known algorithms to generate efficient LL parsers and LR parsers to recognize the corresponding languages those grammars generate.\n\nA \"context-free grammar\" is a grammar in which the left-hand side of each production rule consists of only a single nonterminal symbol. This restriction is non-trivial; not all languages can be generated by context-free grammars. Those that can are called \"context-free languages\".\n\nThe language formula_43 defined above is not a context-free language, and this can be strictly proven using the pumping lemma for context-free languages, but for example the language formula_52 (at least 1 formula_6 followed by the same number of formula_47's) is context-free, as it can be defined by the grammar formula_55 with formula_56, formula_57, formula_24 the start symbol, and the following production rules:\n\nA context-free language can be recognized in formula_61 time (\"see\" Big O notation) by an algorithm such as Earley's algorithm. That is, for every context-free language, a machine can be built that takes a string as input and determines in formula_61 time whether the string is a member of the language, where formula_8 is the length of the string. Deterministic context-free languages is a subset of context-free languages that can be recognized in linear time. There exist various algorithms that target either this set of languages or some subset of it.\n\nIn regular grammars, the left hand side is again only a single nonterminal symbol, but now the right-hand side is also restricted. The right side may be the empty string, or a single terminal symbol, or a single terminal symbol followed by a nonterminal symbol, but nothing else. (Sometimes a broader definition is used: one can allow longer strings of terminals or single nonterminals without anything else, making languages easier to denote while still defining the same class of languages.)\n\nThe language formula_52 defined above is not regular, but the language formula_65 (at least 1 formula_6 followed by at least 1 formula_47, where the numbers may be different) is, as it can be defined by the grammar formula_68 with formula_69, formula_57, formula_24 the start symbol, and the following production rules:\n\nAll languages generated by a regular grammar can be recognized in formula_77 time by a finite state machine. Although, in practice, regular grammars are commonly expressed using regular expressions, some forms of regular expression used in practice do not strictly generate the regular languages and do not show linear recognitional performance due to those deviations.\n\nMany extensions and variations on Chomsky's original hierarchy of formal grammars have been developed, both by linguists and by computer scientists, usually either in order to increase their expressive power or in order to make them easier to analyze or parse. Some forms of grammars developed include:\n\n\nA recursive grammar is a grammar that contains production rules that are recursive. For example, a grammar for a context-free language is left-recursive if there exists a non-terminal symbol \"A\" that can be put through the production rules to produce a string with \"A\" as the leftmost symbol.\nAll types of grammars in the Chomsky hierarchy can be recursive.\n\nThough there is a tremendous body of literature on parsing algorithms, most of these algorithms assume that the language to be parsed is initially \"described\" by means of a \"generative\" formal grammar, and that the goal is to transform this generative grammar into a working parser. Strictly speaking, a generative grammar does not in any way correspond to the algorithm used to parse a language, and various algorithms have different restrictions on the form of production rules that are considered well-formed.\n\nAn alternative approach is to formalize the language in terms of an analytic grammar in the first place, which more directly corresponds to the structure and semantics of a parser for the language. Examples of analytic grammar formalisms include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "33545830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33545830", "title": "Foul Play (novel)", "text": "Foul Play (novel)\n\nFoul Play is an 1869 melodramatic or sensation novel by the British writer Charles Reade. In Victorian Britain a clergyman is wrongly convicted of a crime and transported to Australia. He is shipwrecked with an aristocratic woman on the hitherto uncharted \"Godsend Island\" in the South Pacific. Eventually he is rescued and vindicated of his crime.\n\nIn 1914 it served as the basis for the American \"The Ticket-of-Leave Man\". In 1920 the novel was adapted into a silent film \"Foul Play\" directed by Edwin J. Collins and starring Renee Kelly and Henry Hallett.\n"}
{"id": "1759527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759527", "title": "Future-Drama", "text": "Future-Drama\n\n\"Future-Drama\" is the fifteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> sixteenth season. The 350th episode overall, it originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on April 17, 2005. In the episode, Bart and Lisa stumble into Professor Frink's basement, and he gives them a look into their future as teenagers as they get ready for their high school graduation. Matt Selman wrote the episode, and Mike B. Anderson served as director. Amy Poehler and John DiMaggio guest-starred as the characters of Jenda and Bender respectively.\n\nIn the midst of one of their arguments, Bart and Lisa fall into Professor Frink's basement. Frink uses an astrology-based machine to show the kids their future as teenagers.\n\nEight years in the future (2013), Bart and Lisa are getting ready for their high school graduation and Homer and Marge have separated after Homer blew the family savings on an undersea home. Lisa is graduating two years early and has a scholarship to Yale University, while dating a muscular Milhouse and Bart dates a skateboarder named Jenda. He also shows them a picture of Lisa at age 12 (2009) after she was saved by Milhouse from a fire (which she later learns that he started). After the prom, Jenda wants to have sex with Bart, but Bart has no plans for the future and wants Jenda to marry him and live an aimless life, so she breaks up with him.\n\nBart unsuccessfully seeks advice from Homer on dating. He then shows Lisa a hologram of the prom, and tells her love can be painful; she agrees, noting she broke up with Milhouse and he had an Incredible Hulk-style meltdown. Lisa suggests that to get Jenda back, he must show her he can provide for her. Bart decides to take Lisa's advice and gets a job at the Kwik-E-Mart. While delivering groceries to an elderly Mr. Burns, he rescues him from a robbery by Snake Jailbird. As a reward, Burns gives Lisa's scholarship to Bart. He accepts it, seeing it as a way to get Jenda back. He then tells Lisa about the scholarship causing present and future Lisa to both get angry at Bart. Bart reconciles with Jenda, and now has a good future. That night, Jenda again wants to have sex with Bart, but then he goes into Professor Frink's basement and sees Lisa's bleak future with Milhouse on Frink's machine. Jenda is furious at Bart (she notes she never had any problems sparking romance with Todd Flanders), and gives him an ultimatum: leave and they are finished. Bart does head out and saves Lisa from accepting Milhouse's dismal proposal, then tells his sister he is giving her scholarship back and will find a woman who loves him for himself. Professor Frink then tells present Bart he will get one at age 83, then die one minute later, and his brain would be buried in a pauper's grave.\n\nMeanwhile, Marge has dumped Krusty and reunites with Homer in the underwater home. During the credits, Bart is shown to find the sequence boring, and instead watches Cletus Spuckler's future as the Vice President of the United States on his way to a funeral for the Sultan of Brunei.\n\nThe episode was written by Matt Selman, his thirteenth writing credit for \"The Simpsons\". The episode was the third season sixteen episode that Mike B. Anderson directed, following \"Fat Man and Little Boy\" and \"Pranksta Rap\". It was the third future-themed episode of \"The Simpsons\", following the season six episode \"Lisa's Wedding\" and the season eleven episode \"Bart to the Future\".\n\nEven though this is the 350th episode broadcast on FOX, the 350th in production order is \"The Father, the Son, and the Holy Guest Star\" (which was temporarily shelved following Pope John Paul II's death, and was originally supposed to air after \"Don't Fear the Roofer\").\n\nIn an interview, Selman stated that the story of the episode originated when he asked himself what if people saw Bart and Lisa grow up as \"ugly teenagers\".\n\nThe episode's title is a parody of the TV series \"Futurama\", which was also created by \"Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening. The character Bender makes a cameo appearance when Homer and Bart pass through a quantum tunnel; voice actor John DiMaggio reprised his role voicing Bender. The song playing while Homer and Bart cruise through the former's hovercar is \"I.G.Y.\" by Donald Fagen. The songs \"Take On Me\" by a-ha, \"Bizarre Love Triangle\" by New Order, \"Incense and Peppermints\" by Strawberry Alarm Clock, and \"True\" by Spandau Ballet are played during Bart and Lisa's prom. \"Sea of Love\" by Phil Phillips plays while Homer and Marge kiss in the former's aquatic home. \"Lenny's Super Pet\" bears a strong resemblance to Superman's pet dog, Krypto the Superdog.\n\nIn its original American broadcast, \"Future-Drama\" garnered roughly 8.3 million viewers. The show finished third in its original timeslot.\n\nThe episode has garnered positive reviews from critics. Hayden Childs of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote in 2011 that the episode was \"full of sweetness and funny\", but he thought \"Holidays of Future Passed\" was better.\n\nThe episode was also nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) in 2005. However, it lost to South Park's \"Best Friends Forever\", its first Emmy win.\n\n"}
{"id": "23977081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23977081", "title": "Godet (sewing)", "text": "Godet (sewing)\n\nA godet ( or ) is an extra piece of fabric in the shape of a circular sector which is set into a garment, usually a dress or skirt. The addition of a godet causes the article of clothing in question to flare, thus adding width and volume. Adding a godet to a piece of clothing also gives the wearer a wider range of motion.\n\n"}
{"id": "37249698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37249698", "title": "Golden Goose Award", "text": "Golden Goose Award\n\nThe Golden Goose Award is a United States award established in 2012 that officially recognizes scientists whose federally funded basic research has led to innovations or inventions which have a significant impact on humanity or society. The results have been significant health and economic benefits. The award has bi-partisan support in Congress and is sponsored by a number of notable organizations and legislators.\n\nThe burgeoning research has often had odd-sounding names. Since the 1970s such titles were the subject of ridicule by the late Senator William Proxmire and his monthly Golden Fleece Awards. For example, with his first Golden Fleece Award in March 1975, Senator Proxmire directly ridiculed a National Science Foundation study on why people fall in love.\n\nAnother study entitled \"Acoustic Trauma in the Guinea Pig Cochlea\" has resulted in a treatment for hearing loss in infants. Other research funded by U.S. federal agencies have led to widely used technologies such as laser technology, the internet, fiber optics, the Global Positioning System, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computer touch screens and lithium-ion batteries.\nRecipients receive the award in a ceremony during the fall each year on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C.\n\nIn the face of pressure to cut wasteful spending in the U.S. federal budget, along with the need to underscore the significance of basic research, and as a counter to Proxmire's awards, this award was created. Awardees include Nobel Prize winners. The purpose of the awards is to \"demonstrate the human and economic benefits of federally funded research by highlighting examples of seemingly obscure or unusual studies that have led to major breakthroughs and have had a significant impact on society\". \nThe purpose of the award has also been described as follows:\n\n\"Such innovation has been critically important to economic growth in the United States, and will be even more so as global scientific research becomes increasingly competitive\".\n\n\"Ever since the days of the Golden Fleece Awards, spearheaded by the late Senator William Proxmire, some policymakers have delighted in turning quirky or unusual research titles into a punch line\".\n\n\"The United States may now risk falling behind in scientific discoveries as other countries increase their science funding. We need to get serious about science\".\n\nThe bi-partisan group of legislators that back the Golden Goose award and the founding organizations cite odd-titled research of the past which led to widely used scientific advances. The first cited example is when Alexander Fleming published \"Anti-Bacterial Substance in Filtrates of Broth\" in 1926 which has become known as penicillin. Second, X-rays probably sounded odd in 1895 after Wilhelm Röntgen named such phenomena that caused a glow in a nearby chemically coated screen. Third, studies on the excretion of urine in dogs and the excretion of insulin by dog fish ultimately led to advancements in understanding diabetes which earned the National Medal of Science.\n\nSome of the founding organizations for this award are the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Association of American Universities (AAU), the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (A۰P۰L۰U), the Breakthrough Institute, the Progressive Policy Institute (PPI), and The Science Coalition (TSC) \n\n"}
{"id": "48810986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48810986", "title": "Grutas de Cacahuamilpa (painting by Baron Gros)", "text": "Grutas de Cacahuamilpa (painting by Baron Gros)\n\nCacahuamilpa's Grottos (\"Grutas de Cacahuamilpa\" in Spanish) is an oil painting finished in 1835 by Jean-Baptiste Louis Gros, after his second visit to the caves in Grutas de Cacahuamilpa National Park, in Guerrero, Mexico. It is now in the Museo Soumaya, Mexico City.\n\nThe picture, in a naturalist style, shows a group using the rocks as a table. The chiaroscuro arises from the lights of the expeditioners, giving a Romantic feeling.\n"}
{"id": "54145299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54145299", "title": "Gunslinger Stratos: The Animation", "text": "Gunslinger Stratos: The Animation\n\nThe story revolves on a group of gunslingers, each from the two universes who participate in Operation Stratos, particularly on a group of four childhood friends: Tohru Kazasumi, Kyōka Katagiri, Kyōma Katagiri, and Shizune Rindo, who all must confront their own flaws and differences when they battle their alternate selves from another universe in order to survive.\n\nThe opening theme is \"Vanilla Sky\" by Mashiro Ayano and the ending theme is \"Mirai\" by Garnidelia.\n\n"}
{"id": "13459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459", "title": "H. G. Wells", "text": "H. G. Wells\n\nHerbert George Wells (21 September 1866 – 13 August 1946) was an English writer. He was prolific in many genres, writing dozens of novels, short stories, and works of social commentary, satire, biography, and autobiography, including even two books on war games. He is now best remembered for his science fiction novels and is often called a \"father of science fiction\", along with Jules Verne and Hugo Gernsback.\n\nDuring his own lifetime, however, he was most prominent as a forward-looking, even prophetic social critic who devoted his literary talents to the development of a progressive vision on a global scale. A futurist, he wrote a number of utopian works and foresaw the advent of aircraft, tanks, space travel, nuclear weapons, satellite television and something resembling the World Wide Web. His science fiction imagined time travel, alien invasion, invisibility, and biological engineering. Brian Aldiss referred to Wells as the \"Shakespeare of science fiction\". His most notable science fiction works include \"The Time Machine\" (1895), \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\" (1896), \"The Invisible Man\" (1897), \"The War of the Worlds\" (1898) and the military science fiction \"The War in the Air\" (1907). Wells was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature four times.\n\nWells's earliest specialised training was in biology, and his thinking on ethical matters took place in a specifically and fundamentally Darwinian context. He was also from an early date an outspoken socialist, often (but not always, as at the beginning of the First World War) sympathising with pacifist views. His later works became increasingly political and didactic, and he wrote little science fiction, while he sometimes indicated on official documents that his profession was that of journalist. Novels such as \"Kipps\" and \"The History of Mr Polly\", which describe lower-middle-class life, led to the suggestion that he was a worthy successor to Charles Dickens, but Wells described a range of social strata and even attempted, in \"Tono-Bungay\" (1909), a diagnosis of English society as a whole. A diabetic, Wells co-founded the charity The Diabetic Association (known today as Diabetes UK) in 1934.\n\nHerbert George Wells was born at Atlas House, 162 High Street in Bromley, Kent, on 21 September 1866. Called \"Bertie\" in the family, he was the fourth and last child of Joseph Wells (a former domestic gardener, and at the time a shopkeeper and professional cricketer) and his wife, Sarah Neal (a former domestic servant). An inheritance had allowed the family to acquire a shop in which they sold china and sporting goods, although it failed to prosper: the stock was old and worn out, and the location was poor. Joseph Wells managed to earn a meagre income, but little of it came from the shop and he received an unsteady amount of money from playing professional cricket for the Kent county team. Payment for skilled bowlers and batsmen came from voluntary donations afterwards, or from small payments from the clubs where matches were played.\n\nA defining incident of young Wells's life was an accident in 1874 that left him bedridden with a broken leg. To pass the time he began to read books from the local library, brought to him by his father. He soon became devoted to the other worlds and lives to which books gave him access; they also stimulated his desire to write. Later that year he entered Thomas Morley's Commercial Academy, a private school founded in 1849, following the bankruptcy of Morley's earlier school. The teaching was erratic, the curriculum mostly focused, Wells later said, on producing copperplate handwriting and doing the sort of sums useful to tradesmen. Wells continued at Morley's Academy until 1880. In 1877, his father, Joseph Wells, suffered a fractured thigh. The accident effectively put an end to Joseph's career as a cricketer, and his subsequent earnings as a shopkeeper were not enough to compensate for the loss of the primary source of family income.\nNo longer able to support themselves financially, the family instead sought to place their sons as apprentices in various occupations. From 1880 to 1883, Wells had an unhappy apprenticeship as a draper at the Southsea Drapery Emporium, Hyde's. His experiences at Hyde's, where he worked a thirteen-hour day and slept in a dormitory with other apprentices, later inspired his novels \"The Wheels of Chance\", \"The History of Mr Polly\", and \"Kipps\", which portray the life of a draper's apprentice as well as providing a critique of society's distribution of wealth.\n\nWells's parents had a turbulent marriage, owing primarily to his mother's being a Protestant and his father's being a freethinker. When his mother returned to work as a lady's maid (at Uppark, a country house in Sussex), one of the conditions of work was that she would not be permitted to have living space for her husband and children. Thereafter, she and Joseph lived separate lives, though they never divorced and remained faithful to each other. As a consequence, Herbert's personal troubles increased as he subsequently failed as a draper and also, later, as a chemist's assistant. However, Uppark had a magnificent library in which he immersed himself, reading many classic works, including Plato's \"Republic\", Thomas More's \"Utopia\", and the works of Daniel Defoe. This would be the beginning of Wells's venture into literature.\n\nIn October 1879, Wells's mother arranged through a distant relative, Arthur Williams, for him to join the National School at Wookey in Somerset as a pupil–teacher, a senior pupil who acted as a teacher of younger children. In December that year, however, Williams was dismissed for irregularities in his qualifications and Wells was returned to Uppark. After a short apprenticeship at a chemist in nearby Midhurst and an even shorter stay as a boarder at Midhurst Grammar School, he signed his apprenticeship papers at Hyde's. In 1883, Wells persuaded his parents to release him from the apprenticeship, taking an opportunity offered by Midhurst Grammar School again to become a pupil–teacher; his proficiency in Latin and science during his earlier short stay had been remembered.\n\nThe years he spent in Southsea had been the most miserable of his life to that point, but his good fortune at securing a position at Midhurst Grammar School meant that Wells could continue his self-education in earnest. The following year, Wells won a scholarship to the Normal School of Science (later the Royal College of Science in South Kensington, now part of Imperial College London) in London, studying biology under Thomas Henry Huxley. As an alumnus, he later helped to set up the Royal College of Science Association, of which he became the first president in 1909. Wells studied in his new school until 1887, with a weekly allowance of 21 shillings (a guinea) thanks to his scholarship. This ought to have been a comfortable sum of money (at the time many working class families had \"round about a pound a week\" as their entire household income) yet in his \"Experiment in Autobiography\", Wells speaks of constantly being hungry, and indeed photographs of him at the time show a youth who is very thin and malnourished.\n\nHe soon entered the Debating Society of the school. These years mark the beginning of his interest in a possible reformation of society. At first approaching the subject through Plato's \"Republic\", he soon turned to contemporary ideas of socialism as expressed by the recently formed Fabian Society and free lectures delivered at Kelmscott House, the home of William Morris. He was also among the founders of \"The Science School Journal\", a school magazine that allowed him to express his views on literature and society, as well as trying his hand at fiction; a precursor to his novel \"The Time Machine\" was published in the journal under the title \"The Chronic Argonauts\". The school year 1886–87 was the last year of his studies.\n\nDuring 1888, Wells stayed in Stoke-on-Trent, living in Basford. The unique environment of The Potteries was certainly an inspiration. He wrote in a letter to a friend from the area that \"the district made an immense impression on me.\" The inspiration for some of his descriptions in \"The War of the Worlds\" is thought to have come from his short time spent here, seeing the iron foundry furnaces burn over the city, shooting huge red light into the skies. His stay in The Potteries also resulted in the macabre short story \"The Cone\" (1895, contemporaneous with his famous \"The Time Machine\"), set in the north of the city.\n\nAfter teaching for some time, he was briefly on the staff of Holt Academy in Wales – Wells found it necessary to supplement his knowledge relating to educational principles and methodology and entered the College of Preceptors (College of Teachers). He later received his Licentiate and Fellowship FCP diplomas from the College. It was not until 1890 that Wells earned a Bachelor of Science degree in zoology from the University of London External Programme. In 1889–90, he managed to find a post as a teacher at Henley House School, where he taught A. A. Milne. His first published work was a \"Text-Book of Biology\" in two volumes (1893).\n\nUpon leaving the Normal School of Science, Wells was left without a source of income. His aunt Mary—his father's sister-in-law—invited him to stay with her for a while, which solved his immediate problem of accommodation. During his stay at his aunt's residence, he grew increasingly interested in her daughter, Isabel. He would later go on to court her. To earn money, he began writing short humorous articles for journals such as \"The Pall Mall Gazette\", later collecting these in volume form as \"Select Conversations with an Uncle\" (1895) and \"Certain Personal Matters\" (1897). So prolific did Wells become at this mode of journalism that many of his early pieces remain unidentified. According to David C Smith, \"Most of Wells's occasional pieces have not been collected, and many have not even been identified as his. Wells did not automatically receive the byline his reputation demanded until after 1896 or so ... As a result, many of his early pieces are unknown. It is obvious that many early Wells items have been lost.\" His success with these shorter pieces encouraged him to write book-length work, and he published his first novel, \"The Time Machine\", in 1895.\n\nIn 1891, Wells married his cousin Isabel Mary Wells. The couple agreed to separate in 1894 when he fell in love with one of his students, Amy Catherine Robbins (later known as Jane), with whom he moved to Woking, Surrey in May 1895. They lived in a rented house, 'Lynton', (now No.141) Maybury Road in the town centre for just under 18 months and married at St Pancras register office in October 1895. His short period in Woking was perhaps the most creative and productive of his whole writing career, for while there he planned and wrote \"The War of the Worlds\" and \"The Time Machine\", completed \"The Island of Dr Moreau\", wrote and published \"The Wonderful Visit\" and \"The Wheels of Chance\", and began writing two other early books, \"When The Sleeper Wakes\" and \"Love and Mr Lewisham\".\n\nIn late summer 1896, Wells and Jane moved to a larger house in Worcester Park, near Kingston upon Thames, for two years; this lasted until his poor health took them to Sandgate, near Folkestone, where he constructed a large family home, Spade House, in 1901. He had two sons with Jane: George Philip (known as \"Gip\"; 1901–1985) and Frank Richard (1903–1982).\n\nWith his wife Jane's consent, Wells had affairs with a number of women, including the American birth control activist Margaret Sanger, adventurer and writer Odette Keun, Soviet spy Moura Budberg and novelist Elizabeth von Arnim. In 1909, he had a daughter, Anna-Jane, with the writer Amber Reeves, whose parents, William and Maud Pember Reeves, he had met through the Fabian Society; and in 1914, a son, Anthony West (1914–1987), by the novelist and feminist Rebecca West, 26 years his junior. After Beatrice Webb voiced disapproval of Wells' \"sordid intrigue\" with the daughter of veteran Fabian Sydney Olivier, he responded by lampooning Beatrice Webb and her husband Sidney Webb in his 1911 novel \"The New Machiavelli\" as 'Altiora and Oscar Bailey', a pair of short-sighted, bourgeois manipulators. In \"Experiment in Autobiography\" (1934), Wells wrote: \"I was never a great amorist, though I have loved several people very deeply\".\nDavid Lodge's novel \"A Man of Parts\" (2011)—a 'narrative based on factual sources' (author's note)—gives a convincing and generally sympathetic account of Wells's relations with the women mentioned above, and others. Director Simon Wells (born 1961), the author's great-grandson, was a consultant on the future scenes in \"Back to the Future Part II\" (1989).\n\nOne of the ways that Wells expressed himself was through his drawings and sketches. One common location for these was the endpapers and title pages of his own diaries, and they covered a wide variety of topics, from political commentary to his feelings toward his literary contemporaries and his current romantic interests. During his marriage to Amy Catherine, whom he nicknamed Jane, he drew a considerable number of pictures, many of them being overt comments on their marriage. During this period, he called these pictures \"picshuas\". These picshuas have been the topic of study by Wells scholars for many years, and in 2006, a book was published on the subject.\n\nSome of his early novels, called \"scientific romances\", invented several themes now classic in science fiction in such works as \"The Time Machine\", \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", \"The Invisible Man\", \"The War of the Worlds\", \"When the Sleeper Wakes\", and \"The First Men in the Moon\". He also wrote realistic novels that received critical acclaim, including \"Kipps\" and a critique of English culture during the Edwardian period, \"Tono-Bungay\". Wells also wrote dozens of short stories and novellas, including, \"The Flowering of the Strange Orchid\", which helped bring the full impact of Darwin's revolutionary botanical ideas to a wider public, and was followed by many later successes such as \"The Country of the Blind\" (1904).\n\nAccording to James Gunn, one of Wells's major contributions to the science fiction genre was his approach, which he referred to as his \"new system of ideas\". In his opinion, the author should always strive to make the story as credible as possible, even if both the writer and the reader knew certain elements are impossible, allowing the reader to accept the ideas as something that could really happen, today referred to as \"the plausible impossible\" and \"suspension of disbelief\". While neither invisibility nor time travel was new in speculative fiction, Wells added a sense of realism to the concepts which the readers were not familiar with. He conceived the idea of using a vehicle that allows an operator to travel purposely and selectively forwards or backwards in time. The term \"time machine\", coined by Wells, is now almost universally used to refer to such a vehicle. He explained that while writing \"The Time Machine\", he realized that \"the more impossible the story I had to tell, the more ordinary must be the setting, and the circumstances in which I now set the Time Traveller were all that I could imagine of solid upper-class comforts.\" In \"Wells's Law\", a science fiction story should contain only a single extraordinary assumption. Being aware the notion of magic as something real had disappeared from society, he, therefore, used scientific ideas and theories as a substitute for magic to justify the impossible. Wells's best-known statement of the \"law\" appears in his introduction to \"The Scientific Romances of H.G. Wells\" (1933),\n\n\"As soon as the magic trick has been done the whole business of the fantasy writer is to keep everything else human and real. Touches of prosaic detail are imperative and a rigorous adherence to the hypothesis. Any extra fantasy outside the cardinal assumption immediately gives a touch of irresponsible silliness to the invention.\"\n\nDr. Griffin / The Invisible Man is a brilliant research scientist who discovers a method of invisibility, but finds himself unable to reverse the process. An enthusiast of random and irresponsible violence, Griffin has become an iconic character in horror fiction. \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\" sees a shipwrecked man left on the island home of Doctor Moreau, a mad scientist who creates human-like hybrid beings from animals via vivisection. The earliest depiction of uplift, the novel deals with a number of philosophical themes, including pain and cruelty, moral responsibility, human identity, and human interference with nature. Though \"Tono-Bungay\" is not a science-fiction novel, radioactive decay plays a small but consequential role in it. Radioactive decay plays a much larger role in \"The World Set Free\" (1914). This book contains what is surely his biggest prophetic \"hit\", with the first description of a nuclear weapon. Scientists of the day were well aware that the natural decay of radium releases energy at a slow rate over thousands of years. The \"rate\" of release is too slow to have practical utility, but the \"total amount\" released is huge. Wells's novel revolves around an (unspecified) invention that accelerates the process of radioactive decay, producing bombs that explode with no more than the force of ordinary high explosives—but which \"continue to explode\" for days on end. \"Nothing could have been more obvious to the people of the earlier twentieth century\", he wrote, \"than the rapidity with which war was becoming impossible ... [but] they did not see it until the atomic bombs burst in their fumbling hands\". In 1932, the physicist and conceiver of nuclear chain reaction Leó Szilárd read \"The World Set Free\" (the same year Sir James Chadwick discovered the neutron), a book which he said made a great impression on him.\nWells also wrote non-fiction. His first non-fiction bestseller was \"Anticipations of the Reaction of Mechanical and Scientific Progress upon Human Life and Thought\" (1901). When originally serialised in a magazine it was subtitled, \"An Experiment in Prophecy\", and is considered his most explicitly futuristic work. It offered the immediate political message of the privileged sections of society continuing to bar capable men from other classes from advancement until war would force a need to employ those most able, rather than the traditional upper classes, as leaders. Anticipating what the world would be like in the year 2000, the book is interesting both for its hits (trains and cars resulting in the dispersion of populations from cities to suburbs; moral restrictions declining as men and women seek greater sexual freedom; the defeat of German militarism, and the existence of a European Union) and its misses (he did not expect successful aircraft before 1950, and averred that \"my imagination refuses to see any sort of submarine doing anything but suffocate its crew and founder at sea\").\n\nHis bestselling two-volume work, \"The Outline of History\" (1920), began a new era of popularised world history. It received a mixed critical response from professional historians. However, it was very popular amongst the general population and made Wells a rich man. Many other authors followed with \"Outlines\" of their own in other subjects. He reprised his \"Outline\" in 1922 with a much shorter popular work, \"A Short History of the World\", a history book praised by Albert Einstein, and two long efforts, \"The Science of Life\" (1930) and \"The Work, Wealth and Happiness of Mankind\" (1931). The \"Outlines\" became sufficiently common for James Thurber to parody the trend in his humorous essay, \"An Outline of Scientists\"—indeed, Wells's \"Outline of History\" remains in print with a new 2005 edition, while \"A Short History of the World\" has been re-edited (2006).\nFrom quite early in Wells's career, he sought a better way to organise society and wrote a number of Utopian novels. The first of these was \"A Modern Utopia\" (1905), which shows a worldwide utopia with \"no imports but meteorites, and no exports at all\"; two travellers from our world fall into its alternate history. The others usually begin with the world rushing to catastrophe, until people realise a better way of living: whether by mysterious gases from a comet causing people to behave rationally and abandoning a European war (\"In the Days of the Comet\" (1906)), or a world council of scientists taking over, as in \"The Shape of Things to Come\" (1933, which he later adapted for the 1936 Alexander Korda film, \"Things to Come\"). This depicted, all too accurately, the impending World War, with cities being destroyed by aerial bombs. He also portrayed the rise of fascist dictators in \"The Autocracy of Mr Parham\" (1930) and \"The Holy Terror\" (1939). \"Men Like Gods\" (1923) is also a utopian novel. Wells in this period was regarded as an enormously influential figure; the critic Malcolm Cowley stated: \"by the time he was forty, his influence was wider than any other living English writer\".\n\nWells contemplates the ideas of nature and nurture and questions humanity in books such as \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\". Not all his scientific romances ended in a Utopia, and Wells also wrote a dystopian novel, \"When the Sleeper Wakes\" (1899, rewritten as \"The Sleeper Awakes\", 1910), which pictures a future society where the classes have become more and more separated, leading to a revolt of the masses against the rulers. \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\" is even darker. The narrator, having been trapped on an island of animals vivisected (unsuccessfully) into human beings, eventually returns to England; like Gulliver on his return from the Houyhnhnms, he finds himself unable to shake off the perceptions of his fellow humans as barely civilised beasts, slowly reverting to their animal natures.\n\nWells also wrote the preface for the first edition of W. N. P. Barbellion's diaries, \"The Journal of a Disappointed Man\", published in 1919. Since \"Barbellion\" was the real author's pen name, many reviewers believed Wells to have been the true author of the \"Journal\"; Wells always denied this, despite being full of praise for the diaries.\nIn 1927, a Canadian teacher and writer Florence Deeks unsuccessfully sued Wells for infringement of copyright and breach of trust, claiming that much of \"The Outline of History\" had been plagiarised from her unpublished manuscript, \"The Web of the World's Romance\", which had spent nearly nine months in the hands of Wells's Canadian publisher, Macmillan Canada. However, it was sworn on oath at the trial that the manuscript remained in Toronto in the safekeeping of Macmillan, and that Wells did not even know it existed, let alone having seen it. The court found no proof of copying, and decided the similarities were due to the fact that the books had similar nature and both writers had access to the same sources. In 2000, A. B. McKillop, a professor of history at Carleton University, produced a book on the case, \"The Spinster & The Prophet: Florence Deeks, H. G. Wells, and the Mystery of the Purloined Past\". According to McKillop, the lawsuit was unsuccessful due to the prejudice against a woman suing a well-known and famous male author, and he paints a detailed story based on the circumstantial evidence of the case. In 2004, Denis N. Magnusson, Professor Emeritus of the Faculty of Law, Queen's University, Ontario, published an article on \"Deeks v. Wells\". This re-examines the case in relation to McKillop's book. While having some sympathy for Deeks, he argues that she had a weak case that was not well presented, and though she may have met with sexism from her lawyers, she received a fair trial, adding that the law applied is essentially the same law that would be applied to a similar case today (i.e., 2004).\n\nIn 1933, Wells predicted in \"The Shape of Things to Come\" that the world war he feared would begin in January 1940, a prediction which ultimately came true four months early, in September 1939, with the outbreak of World War II. In 1936, before the Royal Institution, Wells called for the compilation of a constantly growing and changing World Encyclopaedia, to be reviewed by outstanding authorities and made accessible to every human being. In 1938, he published a collection of essays on the future organisation of knowledge and education, \"World Brain\", including the essay \"The Idea of a Permanent World Encyclopaedia\".\nPrior to 1933, Wells's books were widely read in Germany and Austria, and most of his science fiction works had been translated shortly after publication. By 1933, he had attracted the attention of German officials because of his criticism of the political situation in Germany, and on 10 May 1933, Wells's books were burned by the Nazi youth in Berlin's Opernplatz, and his works were banned from libraries and book stores. Wells, as president of PEN International (Poets, Essayists, Novelists), angered the Nazis by overseeing the expulsion of the German PEN club from the international body in 1934 following the German PEN's refusal to admit non-Aryan writers to its membership. At a PEN conference in Ragusa, Wells refused to yield to Nazi sympathisers who demanded that the exiled author Ernst Toller be prevented from speaking. Near the end of the World War II, Allied forces discovered that the SS had compiled lists of people slated for immediate arrest during the invasion of Britain in the abandoned Operation Sea Lion, with Wells included in the alphabetical list of \"The Black Book\".\n\nSeeking a more structured way to play war games, Wells also wrote \"Floor Games\" (1911) followed by \"Little Wars\" (1913), which set out rules for fighting battles with toy soldiers (miniatures). \"Little Wars\" is recognised today as the first recreational war game and Wells is regarded by gamers and hobbyists as \"the Father of Miniature War Gaming\". A pacifist prior to WWI, Wells stated \"how much better is this amiable miniature [war] than the real thing\". According to Wells, the idea of the miniature war game developed from a visit by his friend Jerome K. Jerome. After dinner, Jerome began shooting down toy soldiers with a toy cannon and Wells joined in to compete.\n\nWells visited Russia three times: 1914, 1920 and 1934. During his second visit, he saw his old friend Maxim Gorky and with Gorky's help, met Vladimir Lenin. In his book \"Russia in the Shadows\", Wells portrayed Russia as recovering from a total social collapse, \"the completest that has ever happened to any modern social organisation.\" On 23 July 1934, after visiting U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Wells went to the Soviet Union and interviewed Joseph Stalin for three hours for the \"New Statesman\" magazine, which was extremely rare at that time. He told Stalin how he had seen 'the happy faces of healthy people' in contrast with his previous visit to Moscow in 1920. However, he also criticised the lawlessness, class-based discrimination, state violence, and absence of free expression. Stalin enjoyed the conversation and replied accordingly. As the chairman of the London-based PEN Club, which protected the rights of authors to write without being intimidated, Wells hoped by his trip to USSR, he could win Stalin over by force of argument. Before he left, he realized that no reform was to happen in the near future.\n\nWells's literary reputation declined as he spent his later years promoting causes that were rejected by most of his contemporaries as well as by younger authors whom he had previously influenced. In this connection, George Orwell described Wells as \"too sane to understand the modern world\". G. K. Chesterton quipped: \"Mr Wells is a born storyteller who has sold his birthright for a pot of message\".\n\nWells had diabetes, and was a co-founder in 1934 of The Diabetic Association (now Diabetes UK, the leading charity for people with diabetes in the UK).\n\nOn 28 October 1940, on the radio station KTSA in San Antonio, Texas, Wells took part in a radio interview with Orson Welles, who two years previously had performed a famous radio adaptation of \"The War of the Worlds\". During the interview, by Charles C Shaw, a KTSA radio host, Wells admitted his surprise at the widespread panic that resulted from the broadcast but acknowledged his debt to Welles for increasing sales of one of his \"more obscure\" titles.\n\nWells died of unspecified causes on 13 August 1946, aged 79, at his home at 13 Hanover Terrace, overlooking Regent's Park, London. Some reports also say he died of a heart attack at the flat of a friend in London. In his preface to the 1941 edition of \"The War in the Air\", Wells had stated that his epitaph should be: \"I told you so. You \"damned\" fools\". Wells' body was cremated at Golders Green Crematorium on 16 August 1946; his ashes were subsequently scattered into the English Channel at \"Old Harry Rocks\".\n\nA commemorative blue plaque in his honour was installed at his home in Regent's Park in 1966.\n\nWells called his political views socialist. His contemporary political impact was limited, however, excluding his fiction's positivist stance on the leaps that could be made by physics towards world peace. Winston Churchill was an avid reader of Wells' books, and after they first met in 1902 they kept in touch until Wells died in 1946. As a junior minister Churchill borrowed lines from Wells for one of his most famous early landmark speeches in 1906, and as Prime Minister the phrase \"the gathering storm\" — used by Churchill to describe the rise of Nazi Germany — had been written by Wells in \"The War of the Worlds\", which depicts an attack on Britain by Martians. Wells's extensive writings on equality and human rights, most notably his most influential work, \"The Rights of Man\" (1940), laid the groundwork for the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the United Nations shortly after his death.\n\nHis efforts regarding the League of Nations, on which he collaborated on the project with Leonard Woolf with the booklets \"The Idea of a League of Nations\", \"Prolegomena to the Study of World Organization\", and \"The Way of the League of Nations\", became a disappointment as the organization turned out to be a weak one unable to prevent the Second World War, which itself occurred towards the very end of his life and only increased the pessimistic side of his nature. In his last book \"Mind at the End of Its Tether\" (1945), he considered the idea that humanity being replaced by another species might not be a bad idea. He referred to the era between the two World Wars as \"The Age of Frustration\".\n\nWells wrote in his book \"God the Invisible King\" (1917) that his idea of God did not draw upon the traditional religions of the world: This book sets out as forcibly and exactly as possible the religious belief of the writer. [Which] is a profound belief in a personal and intimate God. ... Putting the leading idea of this book very roughly, these two antagonistic typical conceptions of God may be best contrasted by speaking of one of them as God-as-Nature or the Creator, and of the other as God-as-Christ or the Redeemer. One is the great Outward God; the other is the Inmost God. The first idea was perhaps developed most highly and completely in the God of Spinoza. It is a conception of God tending to pantheism, to an idea of a comprehensive God as ruling with justice rather than affection, to a conception of aloofness and awestriking worshipfulness. The second idea, which is opposed to this idea of an absolute God, is the God of the human heart. The writer would suggest that the great outline of the theological struggles of that phase of civilisation and world unity which produced Christianity, was a persistent but unsuccessful attempt to get these two different ideas of God into one focus. Later in the work, he aligns himself with a \"renascent or modern religion ... neither atheist nor Buddhist nor Mohammedan nor Christian ... [that] he has found growing up in himself\".\n\nOf Christianity, he said: \"it is not now true for me. ... Every believing Christian is, I am sure, my spiritual brother ... but if systemically I called myself a Christian I feel that to most men I should imply too much and so tell a lie\". Of other world religions, he writes: \"All these religions are true for me as Canterbury Cathedral is a true thing and as a Swiss chalet is a true thing. There they are, and they have served a purpose, they have worked. Only they are not true for me to live in them. ... They do not work for me\". In \"The Fate of Homo Sapiens\" (1939), Wells criticised almost all world religions and philosophies, stating \"there is no creed, no way of living left in the world at all, that really meets the needs of the time… When we come to look at them coolly and dispassionately, all the main religions, patriotic, moral and customary systems in which human beings are sheltering today, appear to be in a state of jostling and mutually destructive movement, like the houses and palaces and other buildings of some vast, sprawling city overtaken by a landslide.\n\nThe science fiction historian John Clute describes Wells as \"the most important writer the genre has yet seen\", and notes his work has been central to both British and American science fiction. Science fiction author and critic Algis Budrys said Wells \"remains the outstanding expositor of both the hope, and the despair, which are embodied in the technology and which are the major facts of life in our world\". He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1921, 1932, 1935, and 1946.\n\nIn Britain, Wells's work was a key model for the British \"Scientific Romance\", and other writers in that mode, such as Olaf Stapledon, J. D. Beresford, S. Fowler Wright, and Naomi Mitchison, all drew on Wells's example. Wells was also an important influence on British science fiction of the period after the Second World War, with Arthur C. Clarke and Brian Aldiss expressing strong admiration for Wells's work. Among contemporary British science fiction writers, Stephen Baxter, Christopher Priest and Adam Roberts have all acknowledged Wells's influence on their writing; all three are Vice-Presidents of the H. G. Wells Society. He also had a strong influence on British scientist J. B. S. Haldane, who wrote \"Daedalus; or, Science and the Future\" (1924), \"The Last Judgement\" and \"On Being the Right Size\" from the essay collection \"Possible Worlds\" (1927), and \"Biological Possibilities for the Human Species in the Next Ten Thousand Years\" (1963), which are speculations about the future of human evolution and life on other planets. Haldane gave several lectures about these topics which in turn influenced other science fiction writers.In the United States, Hugo Gernsback reprinted most of Wells's work in the pulp magazine \"Amazing Stories\", regarding Wells's work as \"texts of central importance to the self-conscious new genre\". Later American writers such as Ray Bradbury, Isaac Asimov, Frank Herbert and Ursula K. Le Guin all recalled being influenced by Wells's work.\n\nSinclair Lewis's early novels were strongly influenced by Well's realistic social novels, such as \"The History of Mr Polly\"; Lewis would also name his first son Wells after the author.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Paris Review\", Vladimir Nabokov described Wells as his favourite writer when he was a boy and \"a great artist.\" He went on to cite \"The Passionate Friends\", \"Ann Veronica\", \"The Time Machine\", and \"The Country of the Blind\" as superior to anything else written by Wells's British contemporaries. In an apparent allusion to Wells's socialism and political themes, Nabokov said: \"His sociological cogitations can be safely ignored, of course, but his romances and fantasies are superb.\"\n\nJorge Luis Borges wrote many short pieces on Wells in which he demonstrates a deep familiarity with much of Wells's work. While Borges wrote several critical reviews, including a mostly negative review of Wells's film \"Things to Come\", he regularly treated Wells as a canonical figure of fantastic literature. Late in his life, Borges included \"The Invisible Man\" and \"The Time Machine\" in his \"Prologue to a Personal Library\", a curated list of 100 great works of literature that he undertook at the behest of the Argentine publishing house Emecé. Canadian author Margaret Atwood read Wells' books, and he also inspired writers of European speculative fiction such as Karel Čapek and Yevgeny Zamyatin.\n\n\n\nIn 1954, the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign purchased the H. G Wells literary papers and correspondence collection. The University's Rare Book & Manuscript Library holds the largest collection of Wells manuscripts, correspondence, first editions and publications in the United States. Among these is an unpublished material and the manuscripts of such works as \"The War of the Worlds\" and \"The Time Machine\". The collection includes first editions, revisions, translations. The letters contain general family correspondence, communications from publishers, material regarding the Fabian Society, and letters from politicians and public figures, most notably George Bernard Shaw and Joseph Conrad.\n\n\n\nSources—collections\n\nSources—letters, essays and interviews\n\nBiography\n\nCritical essays\n"}
{"id": "930550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930550", "title": "History of the Russian language", "text": "History of the Russian language\n\nNote: in the following sections, all examples of vocabulary appear in their modern spelling.</small>\n\nRussian is a Slavic language of the Indo-European family. All Indo-European languages are descendants of a single prehistoric language, reconstructed as Proto-Indo-European, spoken sometime in the Neolithic era. Although no written records remain, much of the culture and religion of the Proto-Indo-European people can also be reconstructed based on their daughter cultures traditionally and continuing to inhabit most of Europe and South Asia, areas to where the Proto-Indo-Europeans migrated from their original homeland.\n\nUp to the 14th century, ancestors of the modern Russians (who likewise called themselves \"ruskiye\") spoke dialects of the Old East Slavic language, related to the dialects of other East Slavs. This spoken tongue and the literary Old Church Slavonic language operated throughout Kievan Rus. The earliest written record of the language, an amphora found at Gnezdovo, may date from the mid-10th century. (Until the 15th century, Gnezdovo was a part of the independent Principality of Smolensk.)\n\nFor the debate concerning derivation of the words \"Rus\" and \"Russia\", see Etymology of Rus and derivatives and Rus' (people). For the general history of the language and Old East Slavic literature, see Old East Slavic language.\n\nDuring the pre-Kievan period, the main sources of borrowings were Germanic languages, particularly Gothic and Old Norse. In the Kievan period, however, loanwords and calques entered the vernacular primarily from Old Church Slavonic and from Byzantine Greek:\n\nAfter the Mongol invasion of Rus in the 13th century the vernacular language of the conquered peoples remained firmly Slavic. Turko-Mongol borrowings in Russian relate mostly to commerce and the military:\n\nIn Russia, Church Slavonic – which evolved from Old Church Slavonic – remained the literary language until the Petrine age (1682–1725), when its usage shrank drastically to biblical and liturgical texts. Legal acts and private letters had been, however, already written in pre-Petrine Muscovy in a less formal language, more closely reflecting spoken Russian. The first grammar of the Russian language was written by Vasily Adodurov in the 1740s, and a more influential one by Mikhail Lomonosov in 1755.\n\nAfter the disestablishment of the \"Tartar yoke\" (, ) in the late 14th century, both the political centre and the predominant dialect in European Russia came to be based in Moscow. A scientific consensus exists that Russian and Ruthenian (the predecessor of Belarusian and Ukrainian) had definitely become distinct by this time \"at the latest\" (according to some linguists and historians, even earlier). The official language in Russia remained a kind of Church Slavonic until the close of the 18th century, but, despite attempts at standardization, as by Meletius Smotrytsky c. 1620, its purity was by then strongly compromised by an incipient secular literature. Vocabulary was borrowed from Polish, and, through it, from German and other Western European languages. At the same time, a number of words of native (according to a general consensus among etymologists of Russian) coinage or adaptation appeared, at times replacing or supplementing the inherited Indo-European/Common Slavonic vocabulary.\n\nMuch annalistic, hagiographic, and poetic material survives from the early Muscovite period. Nonetheless, a significant amount of philosophic and secular literature is known to have been destroyed after being proclaimed heretical.\n\nThe material following the election of the Romanov dynasty in 1613 following the Time of Troubles is rather more complete. Modern Russian literature is considered to have begun in the 17th century, with the autobiography of Avvakum and a corpus of \"chronique scandaleuse\" short stories from Moscow.\n\nThe political reforms of Peter the Great were accompanied by a reform of the alphabet, and achieved their goal of secularization and modernization. Blocks of specialized vocabulary were adopted from the languages of Western Europe. Most of the modern naval vocabulary, for example, is of Dutch origin. Latin, French, and German words entered Russian for the intellectual categories of the Age of Enlightenment. Greek words already in the language through Church Slavonic were refashioned to reflect post-Renaissance European rather than Byzantine pronunciation. By 1800, a significant portion of the gentry spoke French, less often German, on an everyday basis.\n\nAt the same time, there began explicit attempts to fashion a modern literary language as a compromise between Church Slavonic, the native vernacular, and the style of Western Europe. The writers Lomonosov, Derzhavin, and Karamzin made notable efforts in this respect, but, as per the received notion, the final synthesis belongs to Pushkin and his contemporaries in the first third of the 19th century.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the standard language assumed its modern form; literature flourished. Spurred perhaps by the so-called Slavophilism, some terms from other languages fashionable during the 18th century now passed out of use (for example, > , 'victory'), and formerly vernacular or dialectal strata entered the literature as the \"speech of the people\". Borrowings of political, scientific and technical terminology continued. By about 1900, commerce and fashion ensured the first wave of mass adoptions from German, French and English.\n\nThe political upheavals of the early 20th century and the wholesale changes of political ideology gave written Russian its modern appearance after the spelling reform of 1918. Reformed spelling, the new political terminology, and the abandonment of the effusive formulae of politeness characteristic of the pre-Revolutionary upper classes prompted dire statements from members of the émigré intelligentsia that Russian was becoming debased. But the authoritarian nature of the regime, the system of schooling it provided from the 1930s, and not least the often unexpressed yearning among the literati for the former days ensured a fairly static maintenance of Russian into the 1980s. Though the language did evolve, it changed very gradually. Indeed, while literacy became nearly universal, dialectal differentiation declined, especially in the vocabulary: schooling and mass communications ensured a common denominator.\n\nThe 1964 proposed reform was related to the orthography. In that year the Orthographic commission of the Institute of the Russian language (Academy of Sciences of the USSR), headed by Viktor Vinogradov, apart from the withdrawal of some spelling exceptions, suggested:\n\nThe reform, however, failed to take root.\n\nPolitical circumstances and the undoubted accomplishments of the superpower in military, scientific, and technological matters (especially cosmonautics), gave Russian a worldwide if occasionally grudging prestige, most strongly felt during the middle third of the 20th century.\n\nThe political collapse of 1990–1991 loosened the shackles. In the face of economic uncertainties and difficulties within the educational system, the language changed rapidly. There was a wave of adoptions, mostly from English, and sometimes for words with exact native equivalents.\nAt the same time, the growing public presence of the Russian Orthodox Church and public debate about the history of the nation gave new impetus to the most archaic Church Slavonic stratum of the language, and introduced or re-introduced words and concepts that replicate the linguistic models of the earliest period.\n\nRussian today is a tongue in great flux. The new words entering the language and the emerging new styles of expression have, naturally, not been received with universal appreciation.\n\nThe following excerpts illustrate (very briefly) the development of the literary language.\n\nc. 1110, from the Laurentian Codex, 1377\n\nOld East Slavic, the common ancestor of Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian. Fall of the yers in progress or arguably complete (several words end with a consonant; 'to rule' < , modern ). South-western (incipient Ukrainian) features include 'bygone'; modern Russian ). Correct use of perfect and aorist: 'is/has come' (modern Russian ), 'began' (modern Russian as a development of the old perfect.) Note the style of punctuation.\n\n. c. 1200(?), from the Catherine manuscript, c. 1790.\n\nIllustrates the sung epics. Yers generally given full voicing, unlike in the first printed edition of 1800, which was copied from the same destroyed prototype as the Catherine manuscript. Typical use of metaphor and simile. The misquote ('to effuse/pour out one's thought upon/over wood'; a product of an old and habitual misreading of the word , 'squirrel-like' as , 'thought-like', and a change in the meaning of the word ) has become proverbial in the meaning 'to speak ornately, at length, excessively'.\n\n1672–73. Modernized spelling.\n\n\"And then they sent me to Siberia with my wife and children. Whatever hardship there was on the way, there's too much to say it all, but maybe a small part to be mentioned. The archpriest's wife [= My wife] gave birth to a baby; and we carted her, sick, all the way to Tobolsk; for three thousand versts, around thirteen weeks in all, we dragged [her] by cart, and by water, and in a sleigh half of the way.\"\n\nPure 17th-century central Russian vernacular. Phonetic spelling ( 'it all, all of that', modern ). A few archaisms still used (aorist in the perfective aspect 'was'). Note the way of transport to exile.\n\nFrom \"Winter Evening\" (), 1825. Modern spelling. \n\nModern Russian is sometimes said to begin with Pushkin, in the sense that the old \"high style\" Church Slavonic and vernacular Russian are so closely fused that it is difficult to identify whether any given word or phrase stems from the one or the other.\n\nFrom \"Crime and Punishment\" (), 1866. Modern spelling.\n\n19th century prose. No archaisms. \"European\" syntax.\n\n (\"Constitution of the Russian Empire\"), 1906. Modern spelling.\n\nIllustrates the categorical nature of thought and expression in the official circles of the Russian Empire. Exemplifies the syntactic distribution of emphasis.\n\nFrom \"The Master and Margarita\" (), 1930–40\n\n\"You have always been a passionate proponent of the theory that upon decapitation human life comes to an end, the human being transforms into ashes, and passes into oblivion. I am pleased to inform you, in the presence of my guests, though they serve as a proof for another theory altogether, that your theory is both well-grounded and ingenious. Mind you, all theories are worth one another. Among them is one, according to which every one shall receive in line with his faith. May that come to be!\"\n\nAn example of highly educated modern speech (this excerpt is spoken by Woland). See Russian humor for the essential other end of the spectrum.\n\nThe modern phonological system of Russian is inherited from Common Slavonic but underwent considerable innovation in the early historical period before it was largely settled by about 1400.\n\nLike other Slavic languages, Old Russian was a language of \"open syllables\". All syllables ended in vowels and consonant clusters, with far less variety than today, existed only in the syllable onset. However, by the time of the earliest records, Old Russian already showed characteristic divergences from Common Slavonic.\n\nDespite the various sound changes, Russian is in many respects a relatively conservative language, and is important in reconstructing Proto-Slavic:\n\nAs with all other Slavic languages, the ultra-short vowels termed yers were lost or transformed. From the documentary evidence of Old East Slavic, this appears to have happened in the 12th century, about 200 years after its occurrence in Old Church Slavonic. The result was straightforward, with reflexes that preserve the front-back distinction between the yers in nearly all circumstances:\nSee the article on yers for the hypothesized pronunciation of these sounds and the meaning of the strong vs. weak distinction.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe loss of the yers caused the phonemicization of palatalized consonants and led to geminated consonants and a much greater variety of consonant clusters, with attendant voicing and/or devoicing in the assimilation:\n\nUnlike most other Slavic languages, so-called \"yer tensing\" (the special development of > and > for some yers preceding ) did not happen in Russian, nor was later lost. Yers preceding developed as elsewhere; when dropped, a sequence \"Cʲj\" developed, which is preserved as such only in Russian. (*Cʲj > \"CʲCʲ\" in Ukrainian and Belarusian; elsewhere, it generally merged with *Cʲ or *Cj, or the was dropped early on.) The main exception to the lack of lack of yer tensing is in long adjectives, where nominative becomes expected (\"oj\") only when stressed, but yer-tensed (\"yj\") elsewhere, and nominative (which is never stressed) always becomes yer-tensed (\"ij\").\n\nSome yers in weak position developed as if strong to avoid overly awkward consonant clusters:\n\nAs shown, Czech and especially Polish are more tolerant of consonant clusters than Russian; but Russian is still more tolerant than Serbo-Croatian or Bulgarian: Proto-Slavic \"mist, haze\" > (\"mgla\") (cf. Old Czech ', Polish ', but Serbo-Croatian \"\", Bulgarian (\"măglá\") ).\n\nThe nasal vowels (spelled in the Cyrillic alphabet with yuses), which had developed from Common Slavic and before a consonant, were replaced with nonnasalized vowels:\n\nExamples:\n\nIn the case of Proto-Slavic > Russian ja, the palatalization of the preceding consonant was due to the general Russian palatalization before all front vowels, which occurred prior to the lowering of to . If the preceding consonant was already soft, no additional palatalization occurred, and the result is written rather than when following the palatal consonants (\"š ž č šč c\"):\n\nNearly all occurrences of Russian (\"ja\") following a consonant other than (\"l\"), (\"n\") or (\"r\") are due to nasal vowels or are recent borrowings.\n\nBorrowings in the Uralic languages with interpolated after Common Slavonic nasal vowels have been taken to indicate that the nasal vowels existed in East Slavic until some time possibly just before the historical period.\n\nIn earlier Common Slavic, vowel length was allophonic, an automatic concomitant to vowel quality, with short and all other vowels (including nasal vowels) long. By the end of the Common Slavic period, however, various sound changes (e.g. pre-tonic vowel shortening followed by Dybo's law) produced contrastive vowel length. This vowel length survives (to varying extents) in Czech, Slovak, Serbian, Croatian, Slovenian and Old Polish, but was lost entirely early in the history of Russian, with almost no remnants. (A possible remnant is a distinction between two \"o\"-like vowels, e.g. and , in some Russian dialects, that may partly reflect earlier length distinctions.)\n\nProto-Slavic accentual distinctions (circumflex vs. acute vs. neoacute) were also lost early in the history of Russian. It has often been hypothesized that the accentual distinctions were first converted into length distinctions, as in West Slavic, followed by the loss of distinctive vowel length. Pretty much the only reflex of the accentual type is found in the stress pattern of pleophonic sequences like \"CereC, CoroC, ColoC\" (where C = any consonant); see below.\n\nNotably, however, the position (as opposed to the type) of the accent was largely preserved in Russian as a stress-type accent (whereas the Proto-Slavic accent was a pitch accent). The complex stress patterns of Russian nouns, verbs and short adjectives are a direct inheritance from Late Common Slavic, with relatively few changes.\n\n\"Pleophony\" or \"full-voicing\" (polnoglasie, ) is the addition of vowels on either side of and in Proto-Slavic sequences like CorC where C = any consonant. The specific sound changes involved are as follows:\n\n\nExamples:\n\nNote that Church Slavonic influence has made it less common in Russian than in modern Ukrainian and Belarusian:\n\nWhen a Proto-Slavic sequence like *CerC was accented, the position of the accent in the resulting pleophonic sequence depends on the type of accent (circumflex, acute or neoacute). This is one of the few places in Russian where different types of accents resulted in differing reflexes. In particular, a sequence like CéreC, with the stress on the first syllable, resulted from a Proto-Slavic circumflex accent, while a sequence like CeréC, with the stress on the second syllable, resulted from a Proto-Slavic acute or neoacute accent. Examples:\n\n\nProto-Slavic and contrasted only after alveolars and labials. After palatals only occurred, and after velars only occurred. With the development of phonemic palatalized alveolars and labials in Old East Slavic, and no longer contrasted in any environment, and were reinterpreted as allophones of each other, becoming a single phoneme . Note that this reinterpretation entailed no change in the pronunciation and no mergers. Subsequently, (sometime between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries), the allophone of before velar consonants changed from to with subsequent palatalization of the velars. Hence, for example, Old Russian became modern . Conversely, the soft consonants were hardened, causing the allophone of to change from to .\n\nProto-Slavic (from Balto-Slavic and Proto-Indo-European long *ē) developed into Old Russian , distinct from (the outcome of Proto-Slavic from Balto-Slavic and Proto-Indo-European short *e). They apparently remained distinct until the 18th century, although the timeline of the merger has been debated. The sound denoted may have been a higher sound than , possibly high-mid vs. low-mid . They still remain distinct in some Russian dialects, as well as in Ukrainian, where Proto-Slavic developed into respectively. The letter remained in use until 1918; its removal caused by far the greatest of all Russian spelling controversies.\n\nProto-Slavic stressed developed into , spelled , when following a soft consonant and preceding a hard one. The shift happened after , which were still soft consonants at the time. The preceding consonant remained soft.\n\nThis sound change also occurred in Belarusian, but not in Ukrainian, as seen in the word for \"flax\": Belarusian and Russian but Ukrainian .\n\nThat has led to a number of alternations:\n\nThis development occurred prior to the merger of ѣ (yat) with е, and ѣ did not undergo this change, except by later analogy in a short list of words as of about a century ago. Nowadays, the change has been reverted in two of those exceptional words.\n\nLoanwords from Church Slavonic reintroduced between a (historically) soft consonant and a hard one, creating a few new minimal pairs:\nRussian spelling does not normally distinguish stressed and following a soft consonant (and in some cases also following the unpaired consonants ), writing both as . However, dictionaries notate as when pronounced as .\n\nModern Russian has extensive reduction of unstressed vowels, with the following mergers:\n\n\nThe underlying vowel resurfaces when stressed in related forms or words, cf. (\"baldá\") \"sledgehammer\", with genitive plural (\"bald\") , vs. (\"kormá\") , with genitive plural (\"korm\") . The spelling consistently reflects the underlying vowel, even in cases where the vowel never surfaces as stressed in any words or forms (e.g. the first syllables of (\"xorošó\") \"well (adverb)\" and (\"sapožók\") \"boot\") and hence the spelling is purely etymological. See Vowel reduction in Russian for more details.\n\nThere are exceptions to the rule given above: for example, \"video\" is pronounced as rather than .\n\nSimplification of Common Slavic and to :\n\nConsonant clusters created by the loss of yers were sometimes simplified, but are still preserved in spelling:\n\nAround the tenth century, Russian may have already had paired coronal fricatives and sonorants so that could have contrasted with , but any possible contrasts were limited to specific environments. Otherwise, palatalized consonants appeared allophonically before front vowels. When the yers were lost, the palatalization initially triggered by high vowels remained, creating minimal pairs like ('given') and ('tribute'). At the same time, , which was already a part of the vocalic system, was reanalyzed as an allophone of after hard consonants, prompting leveling that caused vowels to alternate according to the preceding consonant rather than vice versa.\n\nSometime between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries, the velars became allophonically palatalized before , which caused its pronunciation to change from to . This is reflected in spelling, which writes e.g. (\"gíbkij\") rather than (\"gybkyj\").\n\nThe palatalized unpaired consonants depalatalized at some point, with becoming retroflex and . This did not happen, however, to , which remains to this day as palatalized . Similarly did not depalatalize, becoming (formerly and still occasionally ). The depalatalization of is largely not reflected in spelling, which still writes e.g. (\"šitʹ\"), rather than (\"šytʹ\"), despite the pronunciation .\n\nPaired palatalized consonants other than and sometimes and eventually lost their palatalization when followed by another consonant. This is generally reflected in spelling. Examples:\n\nThere is a tendency to maintain intermediate ancient , , etc. before frontal vowels, in contrast to other Slavic languages. This is the so-called \"incomplete second and third palatalizations\":\nIt is debated whether these palatalizations never occurred in these cases or were due to later analogical developments. A relevant data point in this respect is the Old Novgorod dialect, where the second palatalization is not reflected in spelling and may never have happened.\n\nThe Proto-Slavic palatal series of consonants (not to be confused with the later palatalized consonants that developed in Russian) developed as follows:\n\nMany double consonants have become degeminated but are still written with two letters.\n\nA number of the phonological features of Russian are attributable to the introduction of loanwords (especially from non-Slavic languages), including:\n\nSome of the morphological characteristics of Russian are:\n"}
{"id": "56957503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56957503", "title": "I Know What You Did Last Summer (film series)", "text": "I Know What You Did Last Summer (film series)\n\nI Know What You Did Last Summer is an American horror film series, based on the novel of the same name by Lois Duncan. The series consists of three films.\n\nAfter an accident on a winding road, four teens make the fatal mistake of dumping their victim's body into the sea. But exactly one year later, the dead man returns from his watery grave and he's looking for more than an apology.\n\nThe murderous fisherman with a hook is back to once again stalk the two surviving teens, Julie James and Ray Bronson who left him for dead, as well as cause even more murder and mayhem, this time at a posh island resort.\n\nA group of teenagers in Colorado find themselves being stalked and killed one by one by a mysterious figure with a hook, exactly one year after they covered up a friend's accidental death.\n\nOn September 14, 2014, Sony reported that they have plans to remake the film; Mike Flanagan and Jeff Howard are writing a script. In a June 1, 2016, Blumhouse.com \"Shockwaves\" podcast, writer Mike Flanagan revealed and further confirmed this new iteration and reimagination of the franchise would not have any inventions of the Lois Duncan novel (the antagonist being a central character) nor the 1997 feature (the fisherman Ben Willis and four primary protagonists Julie James, Helen Shivers, Barry Cox, and Ray Bronson). Further, the new direction and scope of the film necessitates an estimated budget of $15–20 million. Sony also states that the film is a high priority and is set for a release somewhere until 2020.\n"}
{"id": "13755584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755584", "title": "Ideological criticism", "text": "Ideological criticism\n\nIdeological criticism is a method in rhetorical criticism concerned with critiquing texts for the dominant ideology they express while silencing opposing or contrary ideologies. It was started by a group of scholars roughly in the late-1970s through the mid-1980s at universities in the United States. Leading scholars of ideological criticism were Michael Calvin McGee at the University of Iowa and Phillip Wander at San Jose State University. Wander's 1983 article, \"The Ideological Turn in Modern Criticism,\" and his 1984 article, \"The Third Persona: An Ideological Turn in Rhetorical Theory,\" remain two of the most important articles in the field. According to Sonja Foss, “the primary goal of the ideological critic is to discover and make visible the dominant ideology or ideologies embedded in an artifact and the ideologies that are being muted in it.” Foss has also mentioned the contribution to ideological criticism of several theoretical schools, including Marxism, structuralism, cultural studies, and postmodernism.\n\nA unit of analysis in ideological criticism, or what Foss calls \"traces of ideology in an artifact,\" is the ideograph. It is a symbol representing an ideological concept and is more than what the symbol itself depicts. Michael McGee, a renowned ideological critic, postulated that an “ideograph is an ordinary term found in political discourse” that “is a high-order abstraction representing collective commitment to a particular but equivocal and ill-defined normative goal”. Thus, McGee restricted ideographs to words, words that “constitute a vocabulary of public motives, which authorize and warrant public actions”. McGee encourages the study of ideographs (such as “liberty” and “freedom”) to help identify the ideological position of a society. He argues such terms are used in discourse as a means of justifying problematic issues within a society. The meaning of an ideograph is defined by a society and its culture and can change over time. Ideographs need not be only positive in nature, but can be negative as well. For example, tyranny and slavery, can “guide behavior and belief negatively by branding unacceptable behavior.\" McGee notes that to fully understand ideographs, they must be examined both “diachronically” as well as “synchronically.” That is, ideographs need to be examined across time to determine how their meanings may have changed and all ideographs that are used in a given situation must be considered.\n\nWho in democracy would be opposed to actions taken under the auspices of liberty and freedom? To do so would, ideographically speaking, be undemocratic. Citizens of a democratic state are “conditioned” to believe that liberty and freedom are so fundamentally important that society expects those citizens to simply unquestioningly accept actions claiming to be in defense of liberty and freedom. For example, even within the United States, the ideograph of freedom has changed. At the time of the American War of Independence (1775–1783), freedom meant breaking away from the tyrannical rule of the Kingdom of Great Britain. Today, freedom means many things including the freedom to pursue one's dreams and the freedom to be left alone. People disagree about the freedoms that are most important: freedom to possess guns, freedom to make decisions that affect one's body, freedom from fear or violence, and freedom of movement. Depending on one's ideological orientation, the ideograph of freedom represents many things, which is why it can be so powerfully used by politicians. Ideographs succeed in political discourse because of their inability to be concretely understood. \n\nIdeographs need not be verbal only; they can be visual too. In 1997, Janis Edwards and Carol Winkler expanded the idea of the ideograph to include visual images as well as written words. They argue images can act as “a Visual reference point that forms the basis of arguments about a variety of themes and subjects” that are used by both “elites and non-elites” alike. Like McGee’s textual ideographs, visual ideographs depict common values and goals in a given culture, recur in different contexts over time, and are used to validate arguments and social practices. Edwards and Winkler mention images of people can act as ideographs too. “In their construct, a person (character) is abstracted and elevated to the status of a cultural figure, and becomes a surface for the articulation of the political character, employing cultural ideals”. Foss identifies the following steps in a piece of ideological criticism: 1) “formulate a research question and select an artifact”; 2) “select a unit of analysis” (which she calls “traces of ideology in an artifact”); 3) “analyze the artifact” (which, according to Foss, involves identifying the ideology in the artifact, analyzing the interests the ideology serves, and uncovering the strategies used in the artifact to promote the ideology); and 4) “write the critical essay”.\n\n"}
{"id": "7819460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7819460", "title": "India Government Mint, Kolkata", "text": "India Government Mint, Kolkata\n\nThe India Government Mint, Kolkata was first established in 1757, and was located in a building next to the Black Hole in the old fort – where the GPO (General Post Office) stands today. It was called the Calcutta Mint and used to produce coins with the mint name Murshidabad.\n\nThe second Calcutta Mint was established with the modern machinery brought in 1790 from England. It was located at the site of Gillet Ship building Establishment, which had been taken over by the Stamp and Stationary Committee in 1833. The coins issued from this mint continued to bear mint name Murshidabad.\n\nIn March 1824, the foundation of the third Calcutta Mint was laid on Strand Road and was opened for production from 1 August 1829. Until 1835 the coins issued at this mint continued to be in the name of the Murshidabad Mint. The imposing frontage of the building of the third Mint was based on a design of the Temple of Athena in Athens, Greece, usually known as the Parthenon. The operative blocks were hidden out of view by the magnificent frontage.\n\nThis mint was named as \"Old Silver Mint\". The foundation for this mint was laid March 1824, and production began 1 August 1829.\n\nThe coinage production capacity then was varying between and pieces per day. In 1860 an annexe known as the \"Copper Mint\" was built to the north of the Silver Mint for the exclusive production of copper coins.\n\nThe silver and copper mints both used to function and produce coins of bronze, silver and gold. Both these mints were well equipped with the coining presses supplied by Boulton and Watt of Soho, Birmingham, England.\n\nApart from minting of coins another important function of the Kolkata Mint was the manufacturing of medals and decorations during the British regime. The production of medals continues to this day.\n\nAfter the closure of this mint in 1952 the building fell into disrepair, after years of neglect. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation declared this building a heritage building. A proposal to restore this building and convert its vast spaces into a museum was put up, and on 10 July 2008 pre-qualification bids were received from eight developers. The project will be a public-private partnership between the Security Printing and Minting Corporation, under the finance ministry, owner of the mint, and the winning bidder.\n\nIn the late 1930s foundation work for a new mint was completed at New Alipore and construction was to have completed by early 1942. However World War II brought all construction to a halt. It was completed in early 1950s.\n\nThe Alipore Mint was opened by Finance Minister of Government of India Shree C. D. Deshmukh on 19 March 1952. The full operation for the coinage and preparation of medals, decorations and badges started in Alipore Mint from this date. In addition to production of coins for domestic use also produces coins for other nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18771661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18771661", "title": "Knockout rat", "text": "Knockout rat\n\nA knockout rat is a genetically engineered rat with a single gene turned off through a targeted mutation (gene trapping) used for academic and pharmaceutical research. Knockout rats can mimic human diseases and are important tools for studying gene function (functional genomics) and for drug discovery and development. The production of knockout rats was not economically or technically feasible until 2008. \n\nTechnology developed through funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and work accomplished by the members of the Knock Out Rat Consortium (KORC) led to cost-effective methods to create knockout rats. The importance of developing the rat as a more versatile tool for human health research is evidenced by the $120 million investment made by the NIH via the Rat Genome Sequencing Project Consortium, resulting in the draft sequence of a laboratory strain of the brown or Norway rat (\"Rattus norvegicus\"). Additional developments with zinc finger nuclease technology in 2009 led to the first knockout rat with targeted, germline-transmitted mutations. Knockout rat disease models for Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, hypertension, and diabetes using zinc-finger nuclease technology are being commercialized by SAGE Labs.\n\nMice, rats, and humans share all but approximately 1% of each other's genes making rodents good model organisms for studying human gene function. Both mice and rats are relatively small, easily handled, have a short generation time, and are genetically inbred. While mice have proven to be a useful rodent model and techniques have been developed for routine disruption of their genes, in many circumstances rats are considered a superior laboratory animal for studying and modeling human disease. \nRats are physiologically more similar to humans than are mice. For example, rats have a heart rate more similar to that of humans, while mice have a heart rate five to ten times as fast. It is widely believed that the rat is a better model than the mouse for human cardiovascular disease, diabetes, arthritis, and many autoimmune, neurological, behavioral, and addiction disorders. In addition, rat models are superior to mouse models for testing the pharmacodynamics and toxicity of potential therapeutic compounds, partially because the number and type of many of their detoxifying enzymes are very similar to those in humans. Their larger size makes rats more conducive to study by instrumentation, and also facilitates manipulation such as blood sampling, nerve conduction, and performing surgeries. \n\nTechniques for genetic manipulation are available in the mouse, which is commonly used to model human disease. Although published knockouts exist for approximately 60% of mouse genes, a large majority of common human diseases do not have a knockout mouse model. Knockout rat models are an alternative to mice that may enable the creation of new gene disruptions that are unavailable in the mouse. Knockout rat models can also complement existing transgenic mouse models. Comparing mouse and rat mutants can facilitate the distinction between rodent-specific and general mammalian phenotypes.\n\nRat models have been used to advance many areas of medical research, including cardiovascular disease, psychiatric disorders (studies of behavioral intervention and addiction), neural regeneration, diabetes, transplantation, autoimmune disorders (rheumatoid arthritis), cancer, and wound & bone healing. While the completion of the rat genome sequence provides very key information, how these diseases relate to gene function requires an efficient method to create knockout rat models in which specific genomic sequences are manipulated.\nMost techniques for genetic manipulation, including random mutagenesis with a gene trap (retroviral-based and non-retroviral-based), gene knock-outs/knock-ins, and conditional mutations, depend upon the culture and manipulation of embryonic stem (ES) cells. Rat ES cells were only recently isolated and no demonstration of gene modification in them has been reported. Consequently, many genetic manipulation techniques widely used in the mouse are not possible in the rat.\n\nUntil the commercial development of mobile DNA technology in 2007 and zinc-finger nuclease technology in 2009, there were only two technologies that could be used to produce rat models of human disease: cloning and chemical mutagenesis using N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU). Although cloning by somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) could theoretically be used to create rats with specific mutations by mutating somatic cells, and then using these cells for SCNT, this approach has not been used successfully to create knockout rats. One problem with this strategy is that SCNT is extremely inefficient. The first published attempt had a success rate of less than 1%. Alternatively, ENU mutagenesis is a common random mutagenesis gene knockout strategy in the mouse that can also be used in the rat. ENU mutagenesis involves using a chemical, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU), to create single base changes in the genome. ENU transfers its ethyl group to oxygen or nitrogen radicals in DNA, resulting in mis-pairing and base pair substitution. Mutant animals can be produced by injecting a male mouse with ENU, and breeding with a wild type female to produce mutant offspring. ENU mutagenesis creates a high frequency of random mutations, with approximately one base pair change in any given gene in every 200-700 gametes. Despite its high mutagenicity, the physical penetration of ENU is limited and only about 500 genes are mutated for each male and a very small number of the total mutations have an observable phenotype. Thousands of mutations typically need to be created in a single animal in order to generate one novel phenotype. \n\nDespite recent improvements in ENU technology, mapping mutations responsible for a particular phenotype is typically difficult and time-consuming. Neutral mutations must be separated from causative mutations, via extensive breeding. ENU and cloning methods are simply inefficient for creating and mapping gene knockouts in rats for the creation of new models of human disease. Through 2007, the largest rat ENU mutagenesis project to date run by the Medical College of Wisconsin was able to produce only 9 knockout rat lines in a period of five years at an average cost of $200,000 per knockout line. Although some companies are still pursuing this strategy, the Medical College of Wisconsin has switched to a more efficient and commercially viable method using mobile DNA and CompoZr ZFN technology.\n\nZinc finger nucleases (ZFNs) and Transcription Activator-Like Effector Nucleases (TALENs) are engineered DNA-binding proteins that facilitate targeted editing of the genome by creating double-strand breaks in DNA at user-specified locations. Double strand breaks are important for site-specific mutagenesis in that they stimulate the cell’s natural DNA-repair processes, namely homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining. When the cell uses the non-homologous end joining pathway to repair the double-strand break, the inherent inaccuracy of the repair often generates precisely targeted mutations. This results in embryos with targeted gene knockout. Standard microinjection techniques allow this technology to make knockout rats in 4–6 months. A major advantage of ZFN- and TALEN-mediated gene knockout relative to the use of mobile DNA is that a particular gene can be uniquely and specifically targeted for knockout. In contrast, knockouts made using mobile DNA technology are random and are therefore unlikely to target the gene of interest.\n\nMobile DNA (jumping gene) technology uses retrotransposons and transposons for the production of knockout rat models. This platform technology meets all of the criteria for a successful gene knockout approach in mammals by permitting random mutagenesis directly in the germ cells (sperm and oocytes) of mammalian model organisms, including rats. Using this technology, genes are disrupted completely and in a stable manner, are knocked out at a high frequency, and are randomly disrupted throughout the entire genome. The genomic location of mutations can be easily mapped, creating a library of knockout rats for later use. Once the random knockout mutations are created, more refined mutations such as conditional mutations can be created by breeding knockout lines with rat lines expressing CRE recombinase in a tissue specific manner. Knock-ins can be produced by recombination mediated cassette exchange.\n\n\"piggyBac\" (PB) DNA transposons mobilize via a \"cut-and-paste\" mechanism whereby a transposase enzyme (PB transposase), encoded by the transposon itself, excises and re-integrates the transposon at other sites within the genome. PB transposase specifically recognizes PB inverted terminal repeats (ITRs) that flank the transposon; it binds to these sequences and catalyzes excision of the transposon. PB then integrates at TTAA sites throughout the genome, in a relatively random fashion. For the creation of gene trap mutations (or adapted for generating transgenic animals), the transposase is supplied in trans on one plasmid and is co-transfected with a plasmid containing donor transposon, a recombinant transposon comprising a gene trap flanked by the binding sites for the transposase (ITRs). The transposase will catalyze the excision of the transposon from the plasmid and subsequent integration into the genome. Integration within a coding region will capture the elements necessary for gene trap expression. PB possesses several ideal properties: (1) it preferentially inserts within genes (50 to 67% of insertions hit genes) (2) it exhibits no local hopping (widespread genomic coverage) (3) it is not sensitive to\nover-production inhibition in which elevated levels of the transposase cause decreased transposition 4) it excises cleanly from a donor site, leaving no “footprint,” unlike Sleeping Beauty.\n\nThe sleeping beauty (SB) transposon is a derivative of the Tc1/mariner superfamily of DNA transposons prevalent among both vertebrate and invertebrate genomes. However, endogenous DNA transposons from this family are completely inactive in vertebrate genomes. An active Tc1/mariner transposon, synthesized from alignment of inactive transposons from the salmonid subfamily of elements, was “awoken” to form the transposon named Sleeping Beauty. SB, like other DNA transposons, mobilizes itself via a cut-and-paste mechanism whereby a transposase enzyme, encoded by the transposon itself, excises and re-integrates the transposon at other sites within the genome. The 340 amino acid SB protein recognizes inverted terminal repeats (ITRs) that flank the transposon; it binds to these sequences and catalyzes excision of the transposon. SB then integrates into random sites within the genome, although some studies report very slight preferences for transcriptional units. There is also a simple requirement of a TA-dinucleotide at the target site, like all Tc1/mariner transposons.\n\nThe SB transposon is a powerful tool for insertional mutagenesis in many vertebrate species. It recently exhibited especial utility for germ line mutagenesis in both mice and rats. There are several advantages that make SB a highly attractive mutagen geared toward gene discovery: 1) it has little bias for inserting within particular genomic regions or within specific recognition sequences, 2) de novo insertions of the transposon provide a “tagged” sequence marker for rapid identification of the specific mutation by simple PCR cloning methods, 3) in vivo SB insertional mutagenesis allows multiple mutations to be quickly and easily generated in a single animal, and in a single tissue, such as an adenomatous polyp.\n\nTransposons and retrotransposons are valuable tools for unbiased gene discovery as mobile pieces of DNA used for gene disruption. Retrotransposons, such as LINEs (long interspersed nuclear elements), mobilize via a “copy and paste” mechanism and are abundant in many eukaryotic species. Several L1 retrotransposons have remained active in mice and humans. L1s contain a small internal promoter within a 5’ untranslated region to drive expression, two open reading frames (ORFs), and a 3’ untranslated region containing sequences for polyadenylation. The two ORFs encode proteins necessary for autonomous retrotransposition; ORF1 encodes an RNA-binding protein while ORF2 encodes a protein containing endonuclease (EN) and reverse transcriptase (RT) activity, which nick a site in DNA, then produce a copy via RT. These proteins exhibit an overwhelming specificity for binding to and acting on the transcript that encodes them, enabling near exclusive mobilization of the parental L1 RNA. Using the RT activity of the ORF2 protein, the transcribed L1 RNA is copied into DNA by a process termed target primed reverse transcription (TPRT), and integrated into the genome. Integration occurs with little bias for any particular genomic region, requiring a simple consensus sequence, 5’TTTT’A-3’ (along with minor variations of this sequence). Integrated L1 sequences are often truncated at the 5’ end, with an average total size of 1 Kb, many containing only 3’ terminal sequences. \n\nThe nature of retrotransposition endows the L1 with some unique advantages; L1 retrotransposons have an essentially unlimited supply of the insertional mutagen since it is continually transcribed from a promoter, which would be useful for applications where large numbers of mutations are needed in a single cell. L1 elements also demonstrate widespread genomic coverage, with a largely random distribution of insertions. L1 insertions at genomic sites are also irreversible, and thus any mutagenic event caused by an L1 insertion is “tagged” by L1 sequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "990682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990682", "title": "List of World War II uniforms and clothing", "text": "List of World War II uniforms and clothing\n\nThis is a list of uniforms and clothing associated with World War II. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5915679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5915679", "title": "Malaipaṭukaṭām", "text": "Malaipaṭukaṭām\n\nMalaipatukataam (Tamil: மலைபடுகடாம், meaning \"the rut of the mountains\") is a Tamil poetic work in the Eighteen Greater Texts (\"Pathinenmaelkanakku\") anthology of Tamil literature, belonging to the Sangam period corresponding to between 100 BCE–100 CE. Malaipatukatam contains 583 lines of poetry in the \"Achiriyappa\" metre. The poems were written by the poet Perunkosikanaar from Perunkunrur. In praise of a minor chieftain named Nannan Venmaan. Malaipatukatam belongs to the Ten Idylls (\"Pattupattu\") collection and follows the \"Arruppadtai\" style, a device used by most of the books in the Pattupattu collection.\n\n\"Arruppatai\" poems read like travelogues in which poets who were returning with gifts received from a king, encourage other poets to do the same by describing in glowing terms the king and his country. This gives the opportunity to the poet, among other topics, to describe in great detail the natural beauty, fertility, and resources of the territory that has to be traversed to reach the palace of the patron. \n\nMalaipatukatam describes the various sounds generated and echoed in a mountainous terrain and uses the analogy of an elephant for the mountain to explain these sounds. It also describes the lifestyle of the folk dancers of the ancient Tamil country.\n\n"}
{"id": "3602928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3602928", "title": "Octobriana", "text": "Octobriana\n\nOctobriana is a Russian comic superheroine created by Petr Sadecký and based on the artistic works of Bohumil Konečný and Zdeněk Burian. According to the 1971 book \"Octobriana and the Russian Underground\" by Petr Sadecký, Octobriana was created in the 1960s by a group of dissident Russian artists calling themselves Progressive Political Pornography (PPP), however, this was a hoax.\n\nAs a character embodying Communist ideals, Octobriana was said to be usable by anyone who wanted, rather than being copyrighted by an author or coproration. This made her, in part, the inspiration for the creation of Jenny Everywhere.\n\nIn \"Octobriana and the Russian Underground\", Sadecký describes the PPP as a loose group of cells, not only in Russia, but throughout the Soviet Union. This group, Sadecký wrote, started around 1957, after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1956. At first they called themselves Progressivnaya Politika (Progressive Politics) and tried to go back to the pure principles of the White movement and their Scandinavian roots; the Rus' people. They were descendants of the Vikings.\n\nLater they put together samizdat comics about the superheroine Octobriana, said to embody the principles of the Russian Revolution and battle against both Russian and American oppression. Sadecky provides a history for Octobriana where she is said to be from thousands of years ago, the child of a Viking and a Toltec princes, whose original name was Mahari (which means \"divine maiden\" in Sanskrit). She was given radiation treatments that made her immortal and reborn as a superhuman in a radioactive volcano. (Her ethnicity has often shifted; the initial Amazona character seems to have been a confused mix of different indigenous backgrounds; Octobriana in Sadecky's book was said to have Mongolian features. Many later portrayals have ignored this and rendered her as white.)\n\nSadecky portrays her as a legendary figure who has been sighted throughout history; there are reports from Siberia, Spain in the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Chinese explorer Zhang Qian, and an unpublished book by left wing Moroccan politician Mehdi Ben Barka. She has been called The White She-Dragon, The Girl with the White Face Coming from the Sky, The Mother of the Seven Red Stars, Angelic Maiden who Turned into a Devil, the Avenger. It is said that she comes from an ancient civilization and was granted immortality by radiation treatments, then underwent an ordeal in a radioactive volcano which transformed her into a superhuman being. She pilots the Wonder Machine, which travels through time and space, crewed by Native Americans. Her weapons and equipment include a Smith and Wesson revolver, a kris knife, and a shark-tooth necklace which can detect radiation. \n\nOne of the stories was \"The living sphinx of the Kamchatka radioactive volcano 1934\", in which she swims into a radioactive volcano and kills a giant walrus with her kris. Afterwards she brings the tribesmen of the Koryaks home with a giant flying ball. Another story was titled \"Octobriana and the Atomic Suns\".\n\nOctobriana was actually Sadecký's own creation. Petr Sadecký, while still in Prague, enlisted the help of two Czech artists, Bohumil Konečný and Zdeněk Burian, in creating a comic centering on the character of \"Amazona.\" Sadecký told the two that he had a buyer interested in the comic, and they worked together on writing and illustrating the Amazona comic. However, Sadecký betrayed his friends by stealing all the artwork and escaping to the West where, in his efforts to market the Amazona comic, he changed the dialogue, drew a red star on the character's forehead, and was successful only after turning Amazona into a fake political statement, \"Octobriana: the spirit of the October Revolution\". Major inconsistencies in his story, and a frame in his book where Octobriana is referred to as \"Amazona\" (p. 83), lend credence to this story. In addition, Burian and Konečný sued Sadecký in a West German court, winning the case but never recovering all their stolen artwork.\nSince Octobriana is still widely believed to be the product of dissident cells within the U.S.S.R., she is not copyrighted, and has appeared in a variety of artistic incarnations.\n\nAppearances in other comics include:\n\n\n\nOther appearances include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4294247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4294247", "title": "Ohu", "text": "Ohu\n\nOhu is a Māori word meaning 'communal work group'. A number of ohu (see intentional community) were set up in rural areas of New Zealand under a government scheme established in the mid-1970s.\n\nIn the 1970s, the third Labour Government of New Zealand (1972–75) under Prime Minister Norman Kirk was reportedly known for its strong social conscience in both international and domestic affairs (Govt Whips Office 1974, Bassett 1978, Hayward 1981). The government confronted the global nuclear arms race by strong opposition to French testing in the Pacific. As a nation, New Zealand sponsored non-proliferation measures such as the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone (later embodied in the Rarotonga Treaty of 1986) and South Pacific Environmental programme. The Labour Government ended national conscription and New Zealand’s contribution to the Vietnam War upon coming to power in 1972. Notably also, they cancelled the visas of a visiting Springboks in early 1974 to show its opposition to the regime of apartheid in that country. On the domestic front, it demonstrated its commitment to environmental protection by setting up a Royal Commission on Nuclear Power in 1974, and the establishment of the Guardians of the Rotorua Lakes and Lake Manapouri (both 1973).\n\nIn October 1974, the Labour Government announced the establishment of the ohu scheme for groups of New Zealand citizens willing to set up alternative communities in rural areas.\n\nForster and Metcalf suggest the Ohu movement was intended to remove radicals from urban settings. However statements from the then Prime Minister, Norman Kirk, and the Minister for Lands, Matiu Rata, suggest the purposes were:\nThe 1975 brochure about the scheme suggested it may be of interest to people keen on organic farming, alternative energy and recycling and referred to the Kibbutz as an inspiration but that communities were not expected to be a copy of this.\n\nMatiu Rata also emphasised the social implications of this alternative land settlement scheme. For Rata, the scheme had a strong Māori spiritual dimension: \"For some time now I have been concerned with the needs of that section of society that has worked so hard to gain social, economic and cultural integrity while trying to maintain spiritual and cultural strength and self-respect. I refer of course, to the Māori section of our society\". (Matiu Rata to the Ohu Working Party, August 1974).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55196826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55196826", "title": "Open-source product development", "text": "Open-source product development\n\nOpen source product development (OSPD) refers to the development of open-source hardware products performed in a collaborative development process allowing the participation of any interested person. Open source product development instantiate the concept of open-source model in the context of physical products. \n\nOSPD is characterized by the simultaneity of two forms of openness: product openness (the development of open source hardware products as defined by the Open Source Definition) and process openness (the possibility for any interested person to take part in the collaborative development process). Generally, OSPD processes are relevant for complex products, whose definition requires the collaborative integration of inputs from multiple contributions. This, however, does not excludes the existence of OSPD processes for simple products. In that sense, OSPD specifies the concept of \"open source innovation\" as defined by Huizingh in the case of complex tangible products.\n\nProcess openness requires that the product development process is performed by a \"community\". The word \"community\" is used in contrast to \"company\" or \"team\" in order to highlight three fundamental differences with the governance of conventional industrial product development. First, communities are groups of individual people whose affiliation to institutions or companies has little influence on the role they play in the product development project. Second, the participation of a member to a community is voluntary, that is, each member defines independently his/her degree of involvement and the delivered workload is generally not paid. Third, the composition of a community is not set at the beginning of the project but is open for the participation of any interested person and evolves along the self-defined involvement of the community members. \n\nOSPD is \"collaborative\" in that it is performed with a certain simultaneity or parallelity in the work provided by the community members. In other words, OSPD is characterized by \"intention for co-development\". Collaboration is defined as the coordinated work performed by a group using common material and following a common objective. It therefore delineates with sequential development loops of open source designs where a product is sequentially developed and released by an isolated member then reused, further developed and released again by another community member, and so on. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9032902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9032902", "title": "Readability survey", "text": "Readability survey\n\nA readability survey is a statistical survey of the ability of people to read given passages of text, written, formatted and/or laid-out in a variety of styles. The intent is to discover which are the preferable styles to use in order to maximise the ability of the reading audience to receive the intended message.\n\nTests may be performed by surveying real people reading the works, or an abbreviated test may be followed, where a number of works are surveyed using pre-determined scoring methodologies, which were themselves developed by systematically surveying real people's response to given texts.\n\nThese tests are commissioned or performed by entities like publishers, educators, design houses and governments, and have resulted in divination of a number of \"rules of thumb\" based on statistical analysis of results which demonstrate a level of consistency in certain parameters , such as the quantity and location of whitespace which obtains maximum readability (e.g. 20% whitespace in text body, margins should be around 40% of the width, for English textbooks, preferably including a column down the left side of the page, or split over both sides, or down the right side as a last resort if sufficient room on the left is not available).\n\nA readability survey implementation may use one or more readability tests in scoring the works.\n\n\nHere is one which is a survey of readability of surveys!\n\n\nMany more may be found by searching the literature, for example\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9240851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9240851", "title": "Renaissance technology", "text": "Renaissance technology\n\nRenaissance technology is the set of European artifacts and inventions which span the Renaissance period, roughly the 14th century through the 16th century. The era is marked by profound technical advancements such as the printing press, linear perspective in drawing, patent law, double shell domes and Bastion fortresses. Sketchbooks from artisans of the period (Taccola and Leonardo da Vinci, example) give a deep insight into the mechanical technology then known and applied.\n\nRenaissance science spawned the Scientific Revolution; science and technology began a cycle of mutual advancement.\n\nSome important Renaissance technologies, including both innovations and improvements on existing techniques:\n\nSome of the technologies were the arquebus and the musket.\n\nThe technologies that developed in Europe during the second half of the 15th century were commonly associated by authorities of the time with a key theme in Renaissance thought: the rivalry of the Moderns and the Ancients. Three inventions in particular — the printing press, firearms, and the nautical compass — were indeed seen as evidence that the Moderns could not only compete with the Ancients, but had surpassed them, for these three inventions allowed modern people to communicate, exercise power, and finally travel at distances unimaginable in earlier times.\n\nCrank and connecting rod\nThe crank and connecting rod mechanism which converts circular into reciprocal motion is of utmost importance for the mechanization of work processes; it is first attested for Roman water-powered sawmills. During the Renaissance, its use is greatly diversified and mechanically refined; now connecting-rods are also applied to double compound cranks, while the flywheel is employed to get these cranks over the 'dead-spot'. Early evidence of such machines appears, among other things, in the works of the 15th-century engineers Anonymous of the Hussite Wars and Taccola. From then on, cranks and connecting rods become an integral part of machine design and are applied in ever more elaborate ways: Agostino Ramelli's \"The Diverse and Artifactitious Machines\" of 1588 depicts eighteen different applications, a number which rises in the 17th-century \"Theatrum Machinarum Novum\" by Georg Andreas Böckler to forty-five.\n\nPrinting press\nThe invention of the printing press by the German goldsmith Johannes Gutenberg (1398–1468) is widely regarded as the single most important event of the second millennium, and is one of the defining moments of the Renaissance. The Printing Revolution which it sparks throughout Europe works as a modern \"agent of change\" in the transformation of medieval society.\n\nThe mechanical device consists of a screw press modified for printing purposes which can produce 3,600 pages per workday, allowing the mass production of printed books on a proto-industrial scale. By the start of the 16th century, printing presses are operating in over 200 cities in a dozen European countries, producing more than twenty million volumes. By 1600, their output had risen tenfold to an estimated 150 to 200 million copies, while Gutenberg book printing spread from Europe further afield.\n\nThe relatively free flow of information transcends borders and induced a sharp rise in Renaissance literacy, learning and education; the circulation of (revolutionary) ideas among the rising middle classes, but also the peasants, threatens the traditional power monopoly of the ruling nobility and is a key factor in the rapid spread of the Protestant Reformation. The dawn of the Gutenberg Galaxy, the era of mass communication, is instrumental in fostering the gradual democratization of knowledge which sees for the first time modern media phenomena such as the press or bestsellers emerging. The prized incunables, which are testimony to the aesthetic taste and high proficient competence of Renaissance book printers, are one lasting legacy of the 15th century.\n\nParachute\nThe earliest known parachute design appears in an anonymous manuscript from 1470s Renaissance Italy; it depicts a free-hanging man clutching a crossbar frame attached to a conical canopy. As a safety measure, four straps run from the ends of the rods to a waist belt. Around 1485, a more advanced parachute was sketched by the polymath Leonardo da Vinci in his \"Codex Atlanticus\" (fol. 381v), which he scales in a more favorable proportion to the weight of the jumper. Leonardo's canopy was held open by a square wooden frame, altering the shape of the parachute from conical to pyramidal. The Venetian inventor Fausto Veranzio (1551–1617) modifies da Vinci's parachute sketch by keeping the square frame, but replacing the canopy with a bulging sail-like piece of cloth. This he realized decelerates the fall more effectively. Claims that Veranzio successfully tested his parachute design in 1617 by jumping from a tower in Venice cannot be substantiated; since he was around 65 years old at the time, it seems unlikely.\n\nMariner's astrolabe\n\nThe earliest recorded uses of the astrolabe for navigational purposes are by the Portuguese explorers Diogo de Azambuja (1481), Bartholomew Diaz (1487/88) and Vasco da Gama (1497/98) during their sea voyages around Africa.\n\nDry dock\n\nWhile dry docks were already known in Hellenistic shipbuilding, these facilities were reintroduced in 1495/96, when Henry VII of England ordered one to be built at the Portsmouth navy base.\n\nFloating dock\nThe earliest known description of a floating dock comes from a small Italian book printed in Venice in 1560, titled \"Descrittione dell'artifitiosa machina\". In the booklet, an unknown author asks for the privilege of using a new method for the salvaging of a grounded ship and then proceeds to describe and illustrate his approach. The included woodcut shows a ship flanked by two large floating trestles, forming a roof above the vessel. The ship is pulled in an upright position by a number of ropes attached to the superstructure.\nLifting tower\n\nA lifting tower was used to great effect by Domenico Fontana to relocate the monolithic Vatican obelisk in Rome. Its weight of 361 t was far greater than any of the blocks the Romans are known to have lifted by cranes.\nMining, machinery and chemistry\nA standard reference for the state of mechanical arts during the Renaissance is given in the mining engineering treatise \"De re metallica\" (1556), which also contains sections on geology, mining and chemistry. \"De re metallica\" was the standard chemistry reference for the next 180 years.\n\nNewspaper\nThe newspaper is an offspring of the printing press from which the press derives its name. The 16th century sees a rising demand for up-to-date information which can not be covered effectively by the circulating hand-written newssheets. For \"gaining time\" from the slow copying process, Johann Carolus of Strassburg is the first to publish his German-language \"Relation\" by using a printing press (1605). In rapid succession, further German newspapers are established in Wolfenbüttel (\"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\"), Basel, Frankfurt and Berlin. From 1618 onwards, enterprising Dutch printers take up the practice and begin to provide the English and French market with translated news. By the mid-17th century it is estimated that political newspapers which enjoyed the widest popularity reach up to 250,000 readers in the Holy Roman Empire, around one quarter of the literate population.\n\nAir-gun\n\nIn 1607 Bartolomeo Crescentio described an air-gun equipped with a powerful spiral spring, a device so complex that it must have had predecessors. In 1610 Mersenne spoke in detail of \"sclopeti pneumatici constructio\", and four years later Wilkins wrote enthusiastically of \"that late ingenious invention the wind-gun\" as being \"almost equall to our powder-guns\". In the 1650s Otto von Guericke, famed for his experiments with vacua and pressures, built the \"Madeburger Windbuchse\", one of the technical wonders of its time.\n\nCranked Archimedes' screw\n\nThe German engineer Konrad Kyeser equips in his \"Bellifortis\" (1405) the Archimedes' screw with a crank mechanism which soon replaces the ancient practice of working the pipe by treading.\n\nCranked reel\n\nIn the textile industry, cranked reels for winding skeins of yarn were introduced in the early 15th century.\n\nBrace\n\nThe earliest carpenter's braces equipped with a U-shaped grip, that is with a compound crank, appears between 1420 and 1430 in Flanders.\n\nCranked well-hoist\n\nThe earliest evidence for the fitting of a well-hoist with cranks is found in a miniature of c. 1425 in the German \"Hausbuch of the Mendel Foundation\".\n\nPaddle wheel boat powered by crank and connecting rod mechanism\n\nWhile paddle wheel boats powered by manually turned crankshafts were already conceived of by earlier writers such as Guido da Vigevano and the Anonymous Author of the Hussite Wars, the Italian Roberto Valturio much improves on the design in 1463 by devising a boat with five sets of parallel cranks which are all joined to a single power source by one connecting rod; the idea is also taken up by his compatriot Francesco di Giorgio.\n\nRotary grindstone with treadle\n\nEvidence for rotary grindstones operated by a crank handle goes back to the Carolingian \"Utrecht Psalter\". Around 1480, the crank mechanism is further mechanized by adding a treadle.\n\nGeared hand-mill\n\nThe geared hand-mill, operated either with one or two cranks, appears in the 15th century.\n\nGrenade musket\n\nTwo 16th-century German grenade muskets working with a wheellock mechanism are on display in the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum, Munich.\n\nThe revived scientific spirit of the age can perhaps be best exemplified by the voluminous corpus of technical drawings which the artist-engineers left behind, reflecting the wide variety of interests the Renaissance Homo universalis pursued. The establishment of the laws of linear perspective by Brunelleschi gave his successors, such as Taccola, Francesco di Giorgio Martini and Leonardo da Vinci, a powerful instrument to depict mechanical devices for the first time in a realistic manner. The extant sketch books give modern historians of science invaluable insights into the standards of technology of the time. Renaissance engineers showed a strong proclivity to experimental study, drawing a variety of technical devices, many of which appeared for the first time in history on paper.\n\nHowever, these designs were not always intended to be put into practice, and often practical limitations impeded the application of the revolutionary designs. For example, da Vinci's ideas on the conical parachute or the winged flying machine were only applied much later. While earlier scholars showed a tendency to attribute inventions based on their first pictorial appearance to individual Renaissance engineers, modern scholarship is more prone to view the devices as products of a technical evolution which often went back to the Middle Ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "97079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97079", "title": "Shango", "text": "Shango\n\nṢàngó (Yoruba language: Ṣàngó, also known as Changó or Xangô in Latin America; and also known as Jakuta or Badé) (from '=shan, 'to strike') is an Orisha. He is syncretized with either Saint Barbara or Saint Jerome. Historically, Shango is a royal ancestor of the Yoruba as he was the third Alafin of the Oyo Kingdom prior to his posthumous deification. Ṣàngó has numerous manifestations including Airá, Agodo, Afonja, Lubé, and Obomin. He is considered to be one of the most powerful rulers that Yorubaland has ever produced, and is noted for his anger.\n\nJakuta was the third Alafin of Oyo, following Oranmiyan and Ajaka. Jakuta brought prosperity to the Oyo Empire. According to Professor Mason's \"Mythological Account of Heroes and Kings\", unlike his peaceful brother Ajaka, Jakuta (meaning: someone who fought with stones) was a powerful and violent ruler. He reigned for seven years which were marked by his continuous campaigns and many battles. His reign ended due to his inadvertent destruction of his palace by lightning. He had three wives, namely Princess Oshun, Princess Oba, and Princess Oya. The Oyo Empire declined in the 19th century, which led to the enslavement of its people by the Fulani and the Fon. Among them were many followers of Ṣàngó, and worship of the deity thrives in the New World as a result. Strong devotion to Ṣàngó led to Yoruba religions in Trinidad and Recife, Brazil being named after the deity.\n\nIn Yorubaland, Sango is worshiped on the fifth day of the week in which is named Ojo Jakuta. Ritual worship foods include guguru, bitter cola, àmàlà, and gbegiri soup. Also, he is worshiped with the Bata drum. One significant thing about this deity is that he is worshiped using red clothing, just as he is said to have admired red attire during his lifetime.\n\nṢàngó is viewed as the most powerful and feared of the orisha pantheon. He casts a \"thundersone\" to earth, which creates thunder and lightning, to anyone who offends him. Worshippers in Yorubaland in Nigeria do not eat cowpea because they believe that the wrath of the god of iron would descend on them. The Ṣàngó god necklaces are composed in varying patterns of red and white beads; usually in groupings of four or six which are his sacred numbers. Rocks created by lightning strikes are venerated by Ṣàngó worshipers; these stones, if found, are maintained at sacred sites and used in rituals. Ṣàngó is called on during coronation ceremonies in Nigeria to the present day.\n\nṢàngó is venerated in Santería and Haiti as \"Chango\". As in the Yoruba religion, Chango is the most feared god in Santería.\n\nIn Haïti, he is from the \"Nago\" Nation, as Ogou. Palo recognizes him as \"Siete Rayos\".\n\nṢàngó is known as Xangô in the Candomblé pantheon. He is said to be the son of Oranyan, and his wives include Oya, Oshun, and Oba, as in the Yoruba tradition. Xangô took on strong importance among slaves in Brazil for his qualities of strength, resistance, and aggression. He is noted as the god of lightning and thunder. He became the patron orixa of plantations and many Candomblé terreiros. In contrast Oko, the orixá of agriculture, found little favor among slaves in Brazil and has few followers in the Americas. The main barracão of Ilê Axé Iyá Nassô Oká, or the terreiro Casa Branca, is dedicated to Xangô. Xangô is depicted with an \"oxê\", or double-sided ax similar to a labrys; a brass crown.\n\n\nAmalá, also known as \"amalá de Xangô\", is the ritual dish offered to the orixá. It is a stew made of chopped okra, onion, dried shrimp, and palm oil. Amalá is served on Wednesday at the \"pegi\", or altar, on a large tray, traditionally decorated with 12 upright uncooked okra. Due to ritual prohibitions, the dish may not be offered on a wooden tray or accompanied by bitter kola. Amalá de Xangô may also be prepared with the addition of beef, specifically an ox tail. Amalá de Xangô is different than àmàlà, a dish common to Yoruba areas of Nigeria.\n\nXangô is depicted with an oxê, also known as the \"oxê de Xangô\". The oxê is a double axe similar to a labrys and originally made of wood.\n\nThe song \"Mama Loi, Papa Loi\" by Bahamian musician Exuma includes the lines \"Come on Shango, Satan come to me/Let me speak what I can't see\".\n\nShango is also a large theme in the Mighty Sparrow song, \"congo Man\".\n\nCaliban invokes Shango in Aimé Césaire's play \"Une Tempête\" (\"A Tempest\").\n\nShango appears as a minor character in The Iron Druid Chronicles by Kevin Hearne.\n\nIn episode 28 of the telenovela \"Celia,\" loosely based on the life of Celia Cruz (produced by Telemundo), the cultural ancestors of Celia's African heritage visit her in her dreams, chanting and invoking the presence of Chango.\n\nXango is mentioned in the song Canto de Ossanha by Baden Powell and Vinicius de Moraes. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "628467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628467", "title": "Space burial", "text": "Space burial\n\nThe cremated remains are not actually scattered in space, and thus do not contribute to space debris. Instead, the ashes remain sealed inside their spacecraft until the spacecraft either: re-enters the Earth's atmosphere and burns up upon re-entry (Earth orbit missions); reaches its final, extraterrestrial destination (e.g. the Moon); or escapes the solar system (deep space missions). To a lesser extent, suborbital flights provide the opportunity to briefly fly ashes into space and return them back to Earth for recovery. Only a sample of remains is launched so as to make the service affordable.\n\nThe concept of launching remains into space using conventional rockets was proposed by the science fiction author Neil R. Jones in the novella \"The Jameson Satellite,\" which was published in the pulp magazine \"Amazing Stories\" in 1931. It was later proposed as a commercial service in the 1965 movie, \"The Loved One,\" and by Richard DeGroot in a \"Seattle Times\" newspaper article on April 3, 1977. Since 1997, the private company Celestis has conducted numerous space burials flying as secondary payloads.\n\nFirst Flights\n\nThe first space burial occurred in 1992 when the NASA space shuttle \"Columbia\" (mission STS-52) carried a portion of Gene Roddenberry's cremated remains into space and returned them to Earth.\n\nThe first private space burial, Celestis' \"Earthview 01: The Founders Flight\", was launched on April 21, 1997. An aircraft, departing from the Canary Islands, carried a Pegasus rocket containing samples of the remains of 24 people to an altitude of 11 km (38,000 ft) above the Atlantic Ocean. The rocket then carried the remains into an elliptical orbit with an apogee of and a perigee of , orbiting the Earth once every 96 minutes until reentry on May 20, 2002, northeast of Australia. Famous people on this flight included Gene Roddenberry and Timothy Leary.\n\nSuborbital flights\n\nShort flights that cross the boundary of space without attempting to reach orbital velocity are a cost-effective method of space burial. The remains do not burn up and are either recovered or lost.\n\nMoon Burials\n\nThe first moon burial was that of Dr. Eugene Shoemaker, a portion of whose cremated remains were flown to the Moon by NASA. Shoemaker's former colleague Carolyn Porco, a University of Arizona professor, proposed and produced the tribute of having Shoemaker's ashes launched aboard the NASA's Lunar Prospector spacecraft. Ten days after Shoemaker's passing, Porco had the go-ahead from NASA administrators and delivered the ashes to the Lunar Prospector Mission Director Scott Hubbard at the NASA Ames Research Center. The ashes were accompanied by a piece of brass foil inscribed with an image of a Comet Hale-Bopp, an image of Meteor Crater in northern Arizona, and a passage from William Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. The Lunar Prospector spacecraft was launched on January 6, 1998 and impacted the south polar region of the moon on July 31, 1999.\n\nUpcoming missions are proposed by both Elysium Space and Celestis as part of an upcoming mission by Astrobotic Technology of Pittsburgh.\n\nPet Burials\n\nIn 2014, Celestis launched Celestis Pets, a pet memorial spaceflight service for animal cremated remains. Prior to then, a Monroe, Washington police dog may have flown on a 2012 memorial spaceflight. When this news broke, Celestis' President said that if dog ashes were on the rocket, the person who supplied the cremated remains likely violated the contract they signed with Celestis.\n\nDedicated Spacecraft\n\nOn May 17, 2017, Elysium Space announced the world's first memorial flight involving a dedicated spacecraft. The cubesat will be placed as a secondary payload on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket as part of a dedicated rideshare mission called SSO-A planned by Spaceflight. The launch will take place from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California.\n\nPrivate companies such as Celestis, Inc., Elysium Space, Ascending Memories, Orbital Memorialsand Aura Nova Space Limited.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11988699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988699", "title": "The Baptism of Christ (Piero della Francesca)", "text": "The Baptism of Christ (Piero della Francesca)\n\nThe Baptism of Christ is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1448–50. It is housed in the National Gallery, London.\n\nThe panel was commissioned presumably some time about 1440 by the Camaldolese Monastery of Sansepolcro in Tuscany, originally part of a triptych. Its dating to Piero della Francesca's early career is evidenced by the strong relationship with the \"light painting\" of his master, Domenico Veneziano.\n\nIt portrays Christ being baptised by John, his head surmounted by a dove representing the Holy Spirit. Christ, John's hand, the bird and the bowl form an axis which divides the painting in two symmetrical parts. A second division is created by the tree on the left, which instead divides it according to the golden ratio.\n\nBehind John, a man in white briefs, his feet already in the water, is struggling to get out of his undershirt. The three angels on the left wear different clothes and, in a break from traditional iconography, are not supporting Christ's garments, but are holding each other's hands, in a sort of way. This could be an allusion to the contemporary Council of Florence (1431–45), whose goal was the unification of the Western and Eastern Churches. The Camaldolese monk and theologian, Saint Ambrose Traversari (+1439), who had been Prior General of the Camaladolese congregation, had been a strong supporter of the union. Such symbolism is also suggested by the presence, behind the neophyte on the right, of figures dressed in an oriental fashion.\n\nPiero della Francesca was renowned in his times as an authority on perspective and geometry: his attention to the theme is shown by John's arm and leg, which form two angles of the same size.\n\n"}
{"id": "24858551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24858551", "title": "The Delta Study", "text": "The Delta Study\n\nThe Delta Study is a CBSE syllabus high school located in a former warehouse in Kochi, India which was built in 1808. The school was established in 1976 and has a scholastic strength of about 1000 and 47 teachers. The school is located in Fort Kochi. The school encourages students to participate in sports activities such as cricket,table tennis,athletics,football, basketball, badminton and volleyball. Delta organizes debate competitions every year in which many well-known schools in the district participate.It also hosts a football tournament annually known as paul joseph's memorial soccer tournament.\n\nThe pupil teacher ratio is 1:15. Teachers attend workshops, seminars and training programs to keep abreast with changes introduced in the field of education.The staff of Delta stage programs on Children's Day and PTA Day. They participate in inter-staff games and matches. They accompany children on picnics, excursions and field trips, Onam, Christmas.\n\nThe Delta Study produces publications for private circulation. \"Delta Pulse\" is a newsletter published in October and April annually to encapsulate the activities of a given academic year. \"Harmony\" is an annual school magazine that showcases the creativity of the school through literary writings and drawings. It contains information covering the latest events happening at the Delta Study, Many articles and artworks are created by the students. The magazine also gives information about group activities such as results of competitions and about winners of various events.Class 4 maintains a manuscript magazine where students design and publish their class articles.\n\nDelta encourages students to participate in various club activities. It has clubs such as the Music Club, History Club, Arts Club, Science Club, Dance Club and Nature Club.\n\nDelta organizes Football tournaments every year. It has always attracted many schools such as Bhavans Girinagar, Naval Children's School, Assisi and many others. Delta also sends its students to participate in various sports activities. The students in Delta have won many trophies for the events they have participated every year.\n\nDelta students are divided into four groups: Rumi, Copernicus, Ramanuja and Schweitzer. Many inter-house competitions are held every year. The students are free to choose their group of interest. The showdown of the year is on the school Sports Day where a lot of exciting action takes place.\n\nThe schools is equipped with laboratories, library, playground courts, classrooms and furniture. There are separate labs for Physics, Chemistry, Biology and Computers. A junior computer lab/AV room enables all students to be trained in computing skills. The library has titles to cater to all tastes, age groups and disciplines. Play-area and courts are adequate for children to play football, cricket, volleyball, badminton, sepaktakraw, throwball, table tennis, basketball and tennis. Class rooms are airy and comfortable and seat a class of 25-30. A spacious auditorium functions as a facility for conducting stage-shows, seminars, workshops, indoor activities, meetings, etc.Separate blocks house the various parts of the school. The main block that greets the visitors is the heritage building – quaint, reposeful and amazing in its vintage appearance – contains the kindergarten, the administrative departments, the Maths, Computer and Language labs, the AV room and the canteen.Behind this are the totally contrasting blocks facing each other: the academic block with 24 classrooms and staff rooms; and the auditorium,science labs and library.The Physical Education Department, music room and art room occupy the three corners of the campus.\n\nStudents are made aware of the different branches of higher education open to them after the completion of twelfth grade. Speakers are invited to address students on the different career opportunities and the preparation required to utilize them. Representatives of NGOs, career-counseling organizations, coaching centres visit the school and address students on career-related topics.\n\nAll the students of tenth grade are advised to take an aptitude test to identify their areas of interest and aptitude which can guide their selection of electives at the twelfth grade level.Alumni volunteer to talk to their juniors on the career they follow and how they entered their areas of work.The activities organized at school provide sufficient training and exposure for students to develop their soft skills, confidence and independent thinking.\n\nDelta organizes PTA meetings frequently where discussions about various issues relating to the improvement of the school take place. An active PTA responds to the call of the school. Parents attend open house, seminars, academic meetings in large numbers. Teachers are honoured by the PTA on Teachers’ Day. Financial assistance is provided to the needy. PTA Day is celebrated enthusiastically. A parents’ evening out the PTA Day opens fun games and food stalls for all. Parents and teachers stage a colourful variety of entertainment and games including a lucky draw assuring everyone of attractive prizes.\n"}
{"id": "33817697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33817697", "title": "The Dragnet Solar Pons et al.", "text": "The Dragnet Solar Pons et al.\n\nThe Dragnet Solar Pons et al. is a collection of detective short stories by author August Derleth. It was released in 2011 by Battered Silicon Dispatch Box. It is a collection of Derleth's Solar Pons stories which are pastiches of the Sherlock Holmes tales of Arthur Conan Doyle.\n\nThese are the original versions of the stories as they appeared in \"Dragnet\" magazine, \"Detective Trails\" magazine, \"Gangster Stories\" magazine, and original unpublished manuscripts. Notes by Mark Wardecker compare the text of the stories to the later, anthologized versions and point out parallels to the Sherlock Holmes stories.\n\nThis collection was recommended (but not shortlisted) for a 2012 British Fantasy Award.\n\n\"The Dragnet Solar Pons et al.\" contains the following tales:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51436403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51436403", "title": "The Killing of a Sacred Deer", "text": "The Killing of a Sacred Deer\n\nThe Killing of a Sacred Deer is a 2017 psychological thriller film directed by Yorgos Lanthimos, from a screenplay by Lanthimos and Efthymis Filippou. It stars Colin Farrell, Nicole Kidman, Barry Keoghan, Raffey Cassidy, Sunny Suljic, Alicia Silverstone, and Bill Camp. The story is based on the ancient Greek play \"Iphigenia at Aulis\" by Euripides.\n\nThe film follows a cardiac surgeon (Farrell) who secretly befriends a teenage boy (Keoghan) with a connection to his past. He introduces the boy to his family, who begin to fall mysteriously ill.\n\n\"The Killing of a Sacred Deer\" was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or in the main competition section at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival. The film was theatrically released in the United States on October 20, 2017, by A24, and in the United Kingdom and Ireland on November 3, 2017, by Curzon Artificial Eye. It has received positive reviews, and grossed over $6 million worldwide.\n\nSteven Murphy, a skilled cardiothoracic surgeon, finishes an open heart surgery, and goes to a diner where he meets a teenage boy named Martin. Afterward, Steven returns home to his wife, Anna, and their children, Kim and Bob. He later tells Anna that Martin's father died in a car accident ten years earlier, and that he has taken an interest in the boy to help him grieve. Martin comes to the Murphy household for dinner; Kim seems rather taken with him.\n\nMartin returns the favor by inviting Steven to his mother's home for dinner. After the meal, Steven tries to leave but Martin insists he watch a movie with them. Martin leaves halfway through, and his mother makes a romantic advance on Steven, who rebuffs her and goes home. Over the next few days, Martin's demands on Steven's time grow increasingly frequent and desperate, but Steven does not reply. One morning, Bob awakens and finds he cannot feel his legs; he has become paralyzed. Steven and Anna rush him to the hospital, where an examination reveals that nothing is physically wrong. Meanwhile, Kim meets with Martin for a date.\n\nThe next morning, Martin meets Steven and reveals the truth: his father did not die in the crash but had died during surgery that Steven himself performed after the accident. Steven failed to save his father, and the boy blames the surgeon for the death. Martin explains that, to \"balance\" the act of destroying a family, Steven must kill one of the members of his own. If not, the Murphys will slowly die after four stages; paralysis is the first stage. Steven attempts to dismiss these claims, but later finds that Bob is refusing food: this is the second stage. Kim also loses the use of her legs and the will to eat.\n\nKim receives a call from Martin at the hospital. During the conversation, she regains the use of her legs, only to lose mobility again when the connection is broken. This convinces Anna that Martin has power. She visits Martin to ask why she and her children must suffer for Steven's mistakes. Martin responds that \"it's the only thing...that's close to justice\". Anna, suspecting that her formerly alcoholic husband may have drank on the day of the operation, speaks to Steven's anesthesiologist, Matthew, who reveals that Steven did in fact have a few drinks that morning. Anna performs a handjob on Matthew as payment for the information. At Anna's insistence, the children are transported to their home, where they are fed through a tube. Steven then kidnaps Martin, brutally beating him and demanding that he reverse the condition of the children. Martin is unaffected, warning Steven that time is running out.\n\nMartin's presence only exacerbates the tension in the household: Kim and Bob argue over who their father will choose; and Anna claims that killing one of the children is clearly the only option, as they can have another. Kim attempts to save herself by escaping and crawling through the neighborhood. Steven and Anna retrieve her. The next morning, Anna releases Martin as holding him captive was no use. Bob begins bleeding from the eyes—the final stage before death. Rather than choose, Steven binds Kim, Bob, and Anna to chairs, covers their heads, and pulls a woolen hat over his own face. He loads a rifle, spins in circles, and fires. The first two shots miss, but the third kills Bob.\n\nSome time later, the family visits the same diner where Steven met with Martin. Martin enters and stares at them; he and the family briefly lock eyes and the Murphys leave as Martin gazes after them.\n\n\nOn May 11, 2016, it was announced that Colin Farrell had been cast in the film, with Yorgos Lanthimos directing from a screenplay he had written with Efthymis Filipou. Film4 Productions and Element Pictures produced the project. In June 2016, Nicole Kidman was cast in the film, and in August 2016, Alicia Silverstone, Raffey Cassidy, Bill Camp, Barry Keoghan, and Sunny Suljic also joined.\n\nAs of August 23, 2016, the film had begun principal photography in Cincinnati, filming at The Christ Hospital. It was also shot in the Hyde Park and Northside neighborhoods. The school scenes in the film were shot at Roger Bacon High School.\n\nIn May 2016, A24 acquired U.S. distribution rights to the film. The same month, Haut et Court acquired French rights. It had its world premiere at the Cannes Film Festival on May 22, 2017. Lanthimos and Filippou won the Best Screenplay award at the festival.\n\nThe film was theatrically released in the United States on October 20, 2017 and in the United Kingdom and Ireland on November 3, 2017.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating 80%, based on 241 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Killing of a Sacred Deer\" continues director Yorgos Lanthimos' stubbornly idiosyncratic streak—and demonstrates again that he is a talent not to be ignored.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating, the film has a weighted average score of 73 out of 100, based on 45 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "706315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706315", "title": "The Steve Harvey Show", "text": "The Steve Harvey Show\n\nThe Steve Harvey Show is a sitcom that aired on The WB from August 25, 1996 to February 17, 2002. It was created by Winifred Hervey and directed by Stan Lathan.\n\nSteve Hightower (Steve Harvey) is a 1970s funk legend who is now a music teacher/vice-principal at Booker T. Washington High School on Chicago's West Side. Budget cutbacks meant Steve also had to teach drama and art, much to his surprise. Cedric Robinson (Cedric the Entertainer) is a coach at the high school, and Steve's longtime best friend. The principal of Booker T. Washington High is Steve's former classmate, Regina Grier (Wendy Raquel Robinson), who Steve affectionately calls \"Piggy\", because of the fact that she was overweight as an adolescent.\n\nSteve forms a strong bond with two of his students: Romeo Santana (Merlin Santana), a stylish, popular, self-absorbed ladies' man, and the equally vacuous Stanley Kuznocki, nicknamed Bullethead (William Lee Scott) - acting as their mentor, and gradually, accepts them as friends.\n\nIn 1997, the show introduced a new character, a secretary named Lovita Jenkins (Terri J. Vaughn), a woman who is fundamentally good in nature, but nonetheless, considerably unrefined in terms of disposition. Cedric and Lovita begin dating, and eventually marry and produce a child. The show also featured a succession of young actresses who served as female foils to Romeo and Bullethead; the longest-lasting of these was Lori Beth Denberg as the overachieving, socially inept Lydia Gutman.She would also call Bullethead a \"broke Brad Pitt\" whenever he annoyed her, but would usually refer to Lydia as \"Linda\", \"Lisa\", or \"Lucy\" (correctly calling her \"Lydia\" only once). Rapper The Lady of Rage also had a recurring role as Coretta \"The Ox\" Cox, a physically massive, brutish teenaged girl in romantic pursuit of Romeo. \n\nSteve was part of a fictional singing group called \"Steve Hightower and the High Tops,\" who would temporarily reunite to perform on occasion (the spelling of \"High Tops\" appears on a promotional poster that hangs on Steve's wall). The members consisted of Steve, T-Bone (played by T. K. Carter, later by Don 'D.C.' Curry), Pretty Tony (played by Ronald Isley of The Isley Brothers), and Clyde (played by Jonathan Slocumb). Two of their signature songs (performed several times on the show) were \"When the Funk Hits the Fan\" (and later on Harvey's eponymous talk show), and \"Break Me Off a Piece of That Funk.\" Though Cedric was not an original member of the group, he usually sang with them on several events.\n\nA few other recurring characters throughout the series included Cedric's grandmother named \"Grandma Puddin'\" (played by Cedric the Entertainer) and Regina's boyfriend, former NFL star Warrington Steele (played by Dorien Wilson). Kenan Thompson and Kel Mitchell appeared in several episodes as \"Junior\" and \"Vincent.\" Wayne Wilderson portrayed Byron, a \"bougie\" type character who was a TV producer and a member of the Onyx Club (a professional men's group that Steve and Cedric tried to join). Dwayne Adway played Jordan Maddox, a professional basketball player who was briefly married to Regina before dying during their honeymoon. Ernest Lee Thomas made a couple of appearances as the Reverend who eulogized Maddox, and who married Cedric and Lovita.\n\n\n\n\nThere were a few recurrent gags throughout the series. For instance, Lovita had several relatives named after products or items (her brother's name was Duracell; she had cousins named \"Kinko\", \"Bruschetta,\" \"Clinique,\" and \"Camay\").\n\nSteve also made several references to his well-known hot spot \"The Nasty Kitty\" and his favorite working girl, Bubblicious, even though the strip club is never seen. Steve's topical humor of popular culture was also another recurring gag. One example of these jokes: \"When I see that woman, I'm like Shaq doing Shakespeare - I just don't know how to act!\". Another recurring gag on the show was despite being a one-time famous musician in the universe of the show, Steve was always mistaken for being other famous musicians. For example, in an episode guest starring Jerry Springer, he refers to him as \"That Cop from the Village People.\" Another episode featured singer Teena Marie, who when Steve went to introduce himself to see if she'd remember him, answers \"Oh yes! Lionel! How are you? Give my best to the rest of The Commodores\" (referring to singer Lionel Richie).\n\nThough Regina had blossomed into a beautiful, stylish lady, she sometimes displayed her insecurities, and was highly competitive (always displayed childlike exuberance whenever she won a trophy by yelling her signature catchphrase \"Bam! In your face!\", and once cheated Steve in a game of Scrabble because he played it better than she). In addition, the romantic tension between Steve and Regina eventually blossomed into a relationship, though they never kissed on the show.\n\nA very well-known gag was Cedric's story about being from Willacoochee, Georgia, where he was raised in a one-bedroom shack. The story was never finished, the scene would change or someone would interrupt him. Cedric's love for decking out his Hyundai, which was never seen in the show, was another running gag, as well as offering to take Lovita out to dinner whenever he had a two-for-one coupon at the Sizzler restaurant.\n\nOccasional gags referenced Bullethead's trailer park lifestyle, and Romeo's numerous names (he has used the names Romeo Miguel Jesus Pele Rojas Alejandro Santana). In one episode, he wrote all of his names on paper but never prepared his assignment, resulting in an \"F\". Lydia almost always displayed an obsession for her classmate/alleged lover, Arthur Rabinowitz (whom Steve referred to as \"that polite Jewish boy that does his taxes\"), and for her favorite entertainer, Barbra Streisand; however, she had total disdain for classmates \"Heather the cheerleader\" and \"Jennifer the cheerleader\". One other gag was that teachers would refer to a student (amongst themselves) because of a condition or appearance (\"Helmet Boy\" for wearing a special helmet in gym class; \"Au Natural Girl\" for having a strong body odor, and \"Firestarter\" for one kid who kept setting items on fire).\n\nIn 2001, Harvey decided to pursue other projects. He wished to end the show after the fifth season, but at the insistence of the WB network, reluctantly filmed a 13-episode sixth season.\n\nThe series ended with Regina mulling over a job offer to be a principal at a private school in California. Steve, who doesn't want Regina to go, acts supportive despite his feelings. Regina ends up taking the job; with encouragement from Lydia, Bullethead, and Romeo, Steve decides to go after her to reveal his true feelings. Lydia, Romeo, and Bullethead have all graduated by the series' finale. Meanwhile, Cedric and Lovita win the lottery and Lovita goes into labor (Terri J. Vaughn's real-life pregnancy was written into the show that season).\n\nOn November 9, 2002, nine months after the show ended, Merlin Santana was shot in the head and killed while sitting in his friend's (Brandon Adams) car in South Central Los Angeles, California. He was 26 years old. The reason for his death is that the killer's girlfriend falsely stated that Santana tried to rape her. The episode of \"The Steve Harvey Show\" immediately following Santana's death was dedicated to his honor.\n\nThe series was first distributed to syndication to The WB, FOX, UPN, and independent affiliates in the United States by Columbia Tristar Television Distribution in September 2000, and remained airing in broadcast syndication in some U.S. markets on various local stations (such as WCIU and Me-TV in Chicago) as late as 2008. From 2000-2005, reruns aired on New York's UPN station, WWOR-TV. From 2014 to June 2016, after Bill Cosby's rape allegation, \"The Cosby Show\" reruns were replaced on WPIX by reruns of \"The Steve Harvey Show\". The show has started airing again in syndication as of 2015.\n\nThe series aired on BET until March 2009, and was on TBS in the United States until September 24, 2011, UK Channel Trouble. It was broadcast on Ion Television until March 16, 2009.\n\nAs of June 2018, reruns of the show can be seen on BET Her.\n\nIn 2003, Columbia Tristar Home Entertainment released \"The Best of the Steve Harvey Show, Vol. 1\", on Region 1 DVD. The disc features five episodes of the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25033619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25033619", "title": "The Uncanny (film)", "text": "The Uncanny (film)\n\nThe Uncanny is a 1977 British anthology horror film, concerning feline revenge. The film was written by Michael Parry, directed by Denis Héroux and stars Peter Cushing, Donald Pleasence, Ray Milland, Joan Greenwood, Donald Pilon, Samantha Eggar, and John Vernon.\n\nAlthough it is similar to the horror anthologies released by Amicus Productions and could be mistaken as one, it was actually distributed by The Rank Organisation. However, the co-producer was Milton Subotsky of Amicus.\n\nIn the UK the film was originally given an X-rating.\n\nIn 1977, in Montreal, writer Wilbur Gray (Peter Cushing) visits his publisher Frank Richards (Ray Milland) to discuss his new book about cats. Wilbur believes that felines are supernatural creatures, and that they are the devil in disguise. Wilbur tells three tales to illustrate his thoughts:\n\nIn 1912, in London, Miss Malkin (Joan Greenwood) is a wealthy woman who rewrites her will leaving her fortune to her cats rather than to her nephew Michael (Simon Williams). Her maid Janet (Susan Penhaligon), also the mistress of Michael, steals one copy of the will from the lawyer's briefcase and tries to destroy the original copy which is kept in the safe. When Miss Malkin sees her attempt, Janet kills her. The cats avenge Miss Malkin's death.\n\nIn 1975, in the Province of Quebec, the orphan Lucy (Katrina Holden) comes to live with her aunt Mrs. Blake (Alexandra Stewart), her husband (Donald Pilon), and her cousin Angela (Chloe Franks) after the death of her parents in a plane crash. Lucy brings her only friend, the cat Wellington, but her mean cousin forces her parents to get rid of Wellington. Lucy uses her mother's book of witchcraft to avenge Wellington.\n\nIn 1936, in Hollywood, the actor Valentine De'ath (Donald Pleasence) replaces the blade of a fake pendulum to kill his actress wife (Catherine Bégin), and give his young mistress and aspiring actress (Samantha Eggar) a chance. The cat of his wife avenges her death.\n\n\nFilming started in Montreal on 16 November 1976.\n\n\n\"The Uncanny\" is the fifth Milton Subotsky film in which a character has the name \"Maitland\" (\"Mrs. Maitland\" played by Renee Girard). The others are \"And Now the Screaming Starts!\" (1973) in which Guy Rolfe plays \"Maitland;\" \"Tales from the Crypt\" (1972) in which Ian Hendry plays \"Carl Maitland;\" \"The Skull\" (1965) which top-bills Peter Cushing as \"Dr. Christopher Maitland;\" and the earliest, \"The City of the Dead\" (aka \"Horror Hotel\", 1960) in which Tom Naylor plays \"Bill Maitland.\"\n\nThe film performed poorly at the box office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2152963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2152963", "title": "Tír na nÓg", "text": "Tír na nÓg\n\nIn Irish mythology and Scottish mythology, Tír na nÓg (; \"Land of the Young\") or Tír na hÓige (\"Land of Youth\") is one of the names for the Celtic Otherworld, or perhaps for a part of it. Other Old Irish names for the Otherworld include Tír Tairngire (\"Land of Promise/Promised Land\"), Tír fo Thuinn (\"Land under the Wave\"), Mag Mell (\"Plain of Delight/Delightful Plain\"), Ildathach (\"Multicoloured place\"), and Emain Ablach (the Isle of Apple Trees). Similar myths in the northern Celtic cultures include these of Annwn, Fairyland, and Hy Brasil.\n\nTír na nÓg is depicted as a paradise and supernatural realm of everlasting youth, beauty, health, abundance and joy.They enjoy a life of eating, dancing and loving and they never have to deal with death or dying. Its inhabitants are the Tuatha Dé Danann, the gods of pre-Christian Ireland. In the \"echtrae\" (adventure) and \"immram\" (voyage) tales, various Irish mythical heroes visit Tír na nÓg after a voyage or an invitation from one of its residents. They reach it by entering ancient burial mounds or caves, or by going under water or across the sea. The mortal who visit the Otherworld are referred to as echtrai (adventures) and baili (visions, ecstasies). The path across the sea is called Mag Mell (Plain of Honey). It is the golden path made by the sun on the ocean. The god that rules this region is said to be the first ancestor of the human race and the god of the dead. \n\nTír na nÓg is best known from the tale of Oisín and Niamh. In the tale, Oisín (a human hero) and Niamh (a woman of the Otherworld) fall in love. She brings him to Tír na nÓg on a magical horse that can travel over water. After spending what seems to be three years there, Oisín becomes homesick and wants to return to Ireland. Niamh reluctantly lets him return on the magical horse, but warns him never to touch the ground. When he returns, he finds that 300 years have passed in Ireland. Oisín falls from the horse. He instantly becomes elderly, as the years catch up with him, and he quickly dies of old age.\n\nThe story of Oisín and Niamh bears a striking similarity to many other tales, including the Japanese tale of Urashima Tarō. Another version concerns King Herla, a legendary king of the ancient Britons, who visited the Otherworld, only to return some two hundred years later after the lands had been settled by the Anglo-Saxons. The \"Seven Sleepers of Ephesus\", a group of Christian youths who hid inside a cave outside the city of Ephesus around 250, purportedly awoke approximately 180 years later during the reign of Theodosius II.\n\nThere is a king of Tír na nÓg who held the crown for many years. The tradition of the land is that every seven years champions come to run against the king in order to rule. They run up a hill to a throne and the first person to sit on the throne becomes king until a champion replaces him. The king begins to fear that someone else will replace him as king. He visits a Druid and asks about his fate as a monarch. The Druid tells him that he will always be king unless his son-in law runs against him. Since the king's daughter is not yet married he decides to use the Druid's magic to turn his daughter's head into the head of a pig. The Druid then tells the king's daughter that she get her own head back if she marries a son of Fin MacCumhail. The king's daughter finds one of the sons, Oisin, and tells him what the Druid told her. They marry and she transforms back into herself. They then go back to Tír na nÓg and Oisin enters the challenge for the throne. He wins the throne and no one ever runs against him again.\n\nThe princess is given a pig's head and pigs are a common symbol in Irish mythology. For the culture they were a vital meat source and they were smaller and fiercer than the modern domesticated pig. Early in Celtic culture, the pig was used as a funeral animal and pigs were an important aspect of trade between the Celts and Romans.They also represent a connection to the warrior class and are said to be good luck to the person who catches them.\n\n"}
{"id": "8756126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8756126", "title": "United States Maritime Literature Awards", "text": "United States Maritime Literature Awards\n\nThe United States Maritime Literature Awards were created to promote maritime cultures, history, heritages and personalities. First Lady Laura Bush officially recognized the Awards in 2002.\n\nThe international maritime literature awards were founded by Rockport-Fulton, Texas resident, Richard Lamb and Alexandria, Virginia resident, Stephen J. Deatherage.\n\nThe Awards are presented to winning nonfiction maritime writers and publishing companies annually. Books may be nominated in the juvenile readers, national or international division.\n\n"}
{"id": "42319503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42319503", "title": "Ura (dance)", "text": "Ura (dance)\n\nUra is one of the popular traditional dances of the Cook Islands, a Maori sacred ritual usually performed by a female who moves her body to tell a story, accompanied by intense drumming by at least five drummers. Moving the hips, legs and hands give off different gestures to the audience to tell a tale, typically related to the natural landscape such as the ocean and birds and flowers, but also feelings of love and sadness. The ura dance has three distinct components; the ura pa'u (drum dances), korero (legends) and kaparima (action songs). To perform the ura, women typically wear a \"pareu\" and a \"kikau\" (grass) skirt, with flowers and shell headbands and necklaces known as \"ei\". Men during the dance are said to \"vigorously flap their knees in a semi-crouched position while holding their upper bodies steady\", and they typically wear \"kikau\" skirts and headbands. The drumming group, an integral part of the Ura, typically consists of a lead drummer (\"pate taki\"), support lead (\"pate takirua\"), a double player (\"tokere\" or \"pate akaoro\") playing wooden gongs, and two other players playing skin drums (\"pa'u\" and \"mango\"). The finest performances of the Ura are put on in Rarotonga.\n\nA sexually charged variant of the ura dance is known at the \"ura piani\" in which both men and women are involved in telling the story. Other variations include the \"ura rore\" (stilt dance), \"ura tairiri\" (fan dance), \"ura korare\" (spear dance), and \"ura rama\" (torch dance).\n\n"}
{"id": "31179358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31179358", "title": "Wedding customs by country", "text": "Wedding customs by country\n\nThe Wedding procedure starts with the groom's side sending elders (Shimagle) who then request a union between the parties. The elders discuss a dowry (ጧሎሽ) and verify that the intended bride and groom are not relatives by checking their lineage a minimum of seven generations. After a dowry is agreed upon and it has been determined that there is no relationship between the intended bride and groom, the wedding is announced and the families begin preparations for a church/mosque ceremony and a mels/melsi ceremony. On the wedding day the groom and groomsmen (ሚዜ) get ready at the groom's house early in the morning and proceed to the bride's parents house to begin the wedding ceremonies. At the bride's parent's house, the bride gets ready and is seated awaiting the groom's arrival. As the groom and his wedding party arrive, the bride's family and friends ceremonially block the entrance to the house. The groomsmen have to either serenade or bribe their way into the house so that the groom can take the bride with him. Additionally, the best man holds perfume and sprays it everywhere inside the bride's family house. After this ceremony, the groom retrieves his bride and they along with a procession go to a church/mosque to take their wedding vows.\n\nAfter the religious ceremony, the wedding procession moves to a park/garden where lunch is served to guests. Afterwards, the wedding party typically takes pictures while guests make their way to the reception. At the reception, depending on the family's ethnic group there are several traditional dances performed. Ethiopian weddings typically serve Ethiopian food and live music and the party typically goes on into the early morning. To close the wedding ceremony, elders are seated at the exit of the venue and the bride and groom along with the wedding party bow and kiss the knees of the elders as they exit the venue. This is typically the conclusion the first day of a typical Ethiopian wedding.\n\nDuring the mels/i ceremony is dependent on the ethnic heritage of the family but it is typically smaller than the first ceremony and a time for close friends and family to spend some time with each other and continue to celebrate the newly married couple.\n\nCustomarily, marriage proceedings often begin with the man proposing to the woman. Upon her acceptance the man then calls for a meeting with his clan elders who largely consist of extended elderly family members. A delegation carrying small gifts is then sent to the woman's home to meet with her clan elders. Deliberations on bride price actually begin on a later date and these are strictly conducted by the older men only. Upon completion of these negotiations, a wedding date is set, with the elders having provided an acceptable percentage of the full dowry. The rest of the dowry is expected later. No request is made for it, but the young man is expected to remember to finish his payment and failure to do so spells dishonor for that family.\n\nThe wedding day begins with a convoy from the grooms family that heads to the girl's home to collect her. However, the convoy is not immediately let into the girl's homestead. Rather the bride's gate is locked and song and dance begins as a cover for negotiations. Various goods may be asked of the groom and he willingly obliges to the demands after which he is let into the compound.\n\nGenerally, there are three types of weddings in Nigeria: traditional weddings, church weddings and court weddings. The civil marriage takes place at a registry, and then the religious ceremony follows. Finally it’s the traditional Nigerian wedding ceremony. Many couples choose to do all three, depending on their financial situation. Nigerian weddings are normally characterised by lots of colours.\n\nIn traditional weddings, customs vary slightly from one part of Nigeria to the other. In Western parts it is called the engagement ceremony. Officials and elders sip wine while they invite the couple in for introductions and negotiations, and presentation of the bride price which consists mainly of gifts of shoes, textiles, jewelry and bags.\n\nIn Eastern parts of the country it is very much the same. Elders from both families retreat into an inner room to negotiate on the bride price. When concluded, the gifts are then presented to the bride's family. After this, the bride, along with her entourage of girls is presented to the husband, family and guests.\n\nPygmy engagements were not long and usually formalized by an exchange of visits between the families concerned. The groom to be would bring a gift of game or maybe a few arrows to his new in-laws, take his bride home to live in his band and with his new parents. His only obligation is to find among his relatives a girl willing to marry a brother or male cousin of his wife. If he feels he can feed more than one wife, he may have additional wives.\n\nAlthough Christian weddings in the Arab World bear similarities to Western weddings, Muslim weddings in the Arab countries are influenced by Muslim traditions. Muslim weddings start with a Sheikh and Al-kitaab (book) for the bride and groom. A wedding is not Islamically valid unless both bride and groom are willing, and the groom is often encouraged to visit her before the wedding (as advised in many \"aḥadīth\" of the Islamic prophet Muhammad). However, these visits must be chaperoned to ensure purity of action between the two.\nIt's the custom that the groom and his family pay for all the wedding expenses. The Bride's family gather together before the wedding in the Bride's parents house. The Groom's family come and take the Bride from the house in a decorated car along with the one bride's mate which usually is the bride's sister, cousin, or best friend. The rest of the family and close friends follow in their cars, honking the car's horns. The reception is usually for all the family and friends usually with a meal and cake. Candy covered almonds is a traditional giveaway from the couple. There is a lot of dancing and (zaghareet)Ululation. The Muslims tradition is to have Men in one side and women in another so the ladies can take their head cover off. But in non-Muslim traditions the whole wedding is for both sexes.\n\nPersian wedding tradition, despite its local and regional variations, like many other rituals in Persia goes back to the ancient Zoroastrian tradition. Though the concepts and theory of the marriage have changed drastically by Islamic traditions, the actual ceremonies have remained more or less the same as they were originally in the ancient Zoroastrian culture.\n\nThe Western custom of a bride wearing a white wedding dress came to symbolize purity, not virginity, in the Victorian era. Within the \"white wedding\" tradition, a white dress and veil is not considered appropriate in the second or subsequent wedding of a widow or divorcee. The specific conventions of Western weddings, largely from a Protestant and Catholic viewpoint, are discussed at \"white wedding\".\n\nA wedding is often followed or accompanied by a wedding reception, which in some areas may be known as the 'Wedding Breakfast', at which an elaborate wedding cake is served. Western traditions include toasting the couple, the newlyweds having the first dance, and cutting the cake. A bride may throw her bouquet to the assembled group of all unmarried women in attendance, with folklore suggesting the person who catches it will be the next to wed. A fairly recent equivalent has the groom throwing the bride's garter to the assembled unmarried men; the man who catches it is supposedly the next to wed.\n\nThe Wedding Breakfast is one occasion where every member of the family who has had at least some role in the wedding is present. It is also important as the first time the newly married bride and groom share their first meal together as a lawfully wedded couple. The modern Wedding Breakfast includes the service of food to guests that can range from traditional roasts, buffets, or regional treats such as in the case of a London Wedding in the 'East End'.\n\nAnother Victorian tradition is for brides to wear or carry \"something old, something new, something borrowed, something blue\" during the service. It is considered good luck to do so. Often the bride attempts to have one item that meets all of these qualifications, such as a borrowed blue handkerchief which is \"new to her\" but loaned by her grandmother (thus making it old). Another addition to this custom is to wear a coin in one's shoe to bring prosperity.\n\nThe full text of the verse is:\n\nScotland is a popular place for young English couples to get married since, in Scotland, parents' permission is not required if both the bride and groom are old enough to legally be married (16). In England it was the case that if either was 16 or 17 then the permission of parents had to be sought. Thus Scotland, and especially the blacksmith's at Gretna Green, became a very popular place for couples to elope to, especially those under 18 and usually living in England. Gretna Green now hosts hundreds of weddings a year and is Scotland's third most popular tourist attraction.\n\n\nHandfasting is a wedding ritual in which the bride's and groom's hands are tied together. It is said to be based on an ancient Celtic tradition and to have inspired the phrase \"tying the knot\". \"Handfasting\" is favoured by practitioners of Celtic-based religions and spiritual traditions, such as Wicca and Druidism.\n\nIn Finland, a tradition is for the bride-to-be to go from door to door with a pillowcase, to receive wedding gifts. Often, an older, married man accompanies her, holding an umbrella or parasol over her head to shelter her. This symbolises protecting and sheltering the new bride. On the day of the wedding, the bride may wear a golden crown on her head. At the wedding reception, the Dance of the Crown is performed, where the bridesmaids blindfold the bride and dance around her. The bride then places the crown on the head of one of the bridesmaids, who tradition dictates will be the next to marry. Traditionally, the bride and groom sit next to each other in designated \"seats of honour\" at the wedding reception. The bride holds in her lap a sieve covered by a shawl, into which monetary gifts are put by the guests. In some weddings, the bride's mother-in-law or godmother will place a china plate on the bride's head, after which the newlyweds will perform the first dance (usually a waltz). When the plate falls and breaks, the guests collect the pieces. The number of pieces determines how many children the couple will have.\n\nThe last dance in a Finnish wedding is called the weaning waltz. All the female guests dance with the bride and all the male guests dance with the groom, including children. Each guest only dances with the bride or groom for a brief period before moving on. This custom was originally conceived as a test to see how quickly the bride and groom will \"forget\" each other (i.e. how long they will dance with each other before moving on to a guest).\n\nIn France many couples choose to have two weddings, only civil weddings are legally recognized (due to the concept of laïcité), they are performed in the town hall by the mayor (or a deputy mayor or another councillor acting on his/her behalf). At least one of the spouses must reside in the town where the ceremony takes place. For people choosing to also have a religious wedding, the religious ceremony can only take place after the civil one, often in the same day. Town halls often offer a more elaborate ceremony for couples who do not wish to marry religiously.\n\nIf the two ceremonies take place separately, the civil one will usually include close family and witnesses. Once the civil ceremony is complete, the couple will receive a \"livret de famille\", a booklet where a copy of the marriage certificate is recorded. This is an official document and, should the couple have children, each child's birth certificate will be recorded in the \"livret de famille\" too. The civil ceremony in France is free of charge.\n\nTraditionally, the wedding guests gathered at the fiancée home and went on procession to the church. The procession were led by the bridegroom and his mother, followed by the bride mother and bridegroom father, the witnesses, grandparents, brothers and sisters with their spouse. At last came the bride and her father followed by the bridesmaids (usually family children).\n\nNowadays, the guests usually gathered at the town hall or church and the bride and bridegroom enter together, followed by the family and guests.\n\nIn some regions, the groom may meet his fiancée at her home on the day of the wedding and escort her to the chapel where the ceremony is being held. As the couple proceeds to the chapel, children will stretch long white ribbons across the road which the bride will cut as she passes.\n\nAt the chapel, the bride and groom are seated on two red velvet chairs underneath a silk canopy called a \"carre\".\nLaurel leaves may be scattered across their paths when they exit the chapel. Sometimes small coins are also tossed for the children to gather.\n\nAt the reception, the couple customarily uses a toasting cup called a \"Coupe de Mariage\". The origin of giving this toast began in France, when a small piece of toast was literally dropped into the couple's wine to ensure a healthy life. The couple would lift their glass to \"a toast\", as is common in Western culture today.\n\nIn south west France it is customary to serve spit roast wild boar (or sanglier in French) as the wedding breakfast, a local delicacy.\n\nSome couples choose to serve a \"croquembouche\" instead of a wedding cake. This dessert is a pyramid of crème-filled pastry puffs, drizzled with a caramel glaze.\n\nAt more boisterous weddings, tradition involves continuing the celebration until very late at night. In many regions of France, wedding rituals continue late into the night after the official ceremonies and party. In some regions after the reception, those invited to the wedding will gather outside the newlyweds' window and bang pots and pans; this is called a 'charivari'. They are then invited into the house for some more drinks in the couple's honor, after which the couple is finally allowed to be alone for their first night together as husband and wife.\n\nIn the rural Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, a post-wedding ritual called \"la rôtie\" involves a gang of unmarried men and women finding the bride and groom who have escaped from the reception, tipping them out of their bed, and serving them a concoction of champagne and chocolate served in a chamber pot, which will be passed around and drank by everyone. Afterwards, the whole group will enjoy an onion soup. The heavily scatological and sexual implications and off-putting appearance of this ritual is supposed to symbolize the day-to-day intimacy of married life, deeply connected to the rural nature of the area. L\"a rôtie\" is an alternative ceremony outside the official ceremonies that the youth can be involved in, and create humor by making something that \"tastes good but is in bad taste\". The commensal quality of the ritual is a symbol for the bridge between youth and adulthood that the couple becomes in marriage, as well as the community's involvement in the new couple's married life. Similar rituals are widespread across rural France, though perhaps with different foods and containers.\n\nMostly it is the good friends who kidnap the bride. Here, the kidnappers go with her from bar to bar, the best man of the bride (or her father) or the groom have to pay the bill every time. The kidnappers go to a certain place, such as a public building, and leave a few pointers to help for searching. The exemption may be associated with a task for the groom, for example an artistic performance or wash the dishes for the next few weeks.\n\nIn Austria and Bavaria (preferably at country weddings), it is now customary to sing a derisive song before the freeing of the bride.\n\nIn Lower Austria it is customary for the masked men and the bride to go to the nearest coffee bar or tavern to drink, sing and to wait for the groom to come. In most areas of Austria it is the best man, sometimes the groom or the bride's father (rarely the best man) that pays the price of the kidnappers.\n\nThis ordinariness is due to the supposed 'right of the first night' (German 'Recht der ersten Nacht', French 'droit du seigneur') in the Middle Ages. According to myth the clergy and nobility in the Middle Ages had the right to deflower their female subordinates in their wedding night. Back then the brides was retrieved (kidnapped) from the vassals of the government from their Weddings. The historiography sees this right rather as a literary fiction.\n\nIn Bavaria and Western Austria another tradition is to wake up the bride early in the morning with a gun shoot or firecrackers on wedding day. Friends and neighbours meet at dawn at the brides house to \"greet\" her on her special day.\n\nTwo or three days before the wedding, the couple organizes a celebration called \"Krevati\" (Greek for bed) in their new home. In Krevati, friends and relatives of the couple put money and young children on the couple's new bed for prosperity and fertility in their life. After the custom, they usually have a party with food and music.\n\nOn the day of the wedding, usually Saturday, but also Friday or Sunday, the groom cannot see the bride until the wedding ceremony. The groom usually arrives first in church and waits for bride, who usually arrives late. After they exchange flower bouquets, they have the wedding ceremony, where the best man puts the wedding rings and crowns on the couple. The couple drink red wine from the same glass (between one and three sips, depending on the tradition). This is not \"communion\" in the formal religious sense, but about sharing the cup of life. At the end of the wedding ceremony, as the newly wedded pair leave the church, the guests throw rice and flowers for fertility and felicity. Special guests, such as close friends and family receive sugar-coated almonds (traditionally an odd number, usually seven but sometimes five) as a gift from the couple. Most Greek ceremonies are Orthodox.\n\nAfter the ceremony, usually the couple hold a great wedding party in some place with plenty of food, drinks, music and dance, usually until next morning. The wedding party starts with the invited people waiting for the couple, who usually come after some time. They start the dancing and eventually eat a piece of their wedding cake. At some point during the party, they also dance the traditional zeibekiko (groom) and çiftetelli (bride).\n\nIn many places of Greece, where they hold a more traditional wedding, they usually play only traditional music and eat local food. For example, in the region of Cyclades, they eat the traditional pasteli (solid honey with sesame) and in the region of Crete they cook rice with goat. In most traditional weddings, they bake whole animals like pigs, goats or sheep just like the Easter celebration. Before the church ceremony, especially in smaller areas, usually friends and relatives of the bride and the groom, accompanies them separately to the church playing traditional instruments, according to the region.\n\nA typical Greek wedding will usually have more than 100 invited people (but usually 250-500) who are friends, siblings, grandparents, uncles, aunts, first or second cousins, neighbors and colleagues. It is common to have guests whom the couple has never met before. This is because the people who will be invited are usually determined by the parents of the couple and not by the couple themselves. Traditionally, the whole village would have attended the wedding, so very often the parents invite friends of theirs and their children, to the weddings of their own children.\n\nThere are many other traditions which are local to their regional areas. One famous tradition is the pinning of money on the bride's dress. This custom originated in one part of Greece, where it is a substitute for wedding presents, however it has become more widespread recently.\n\nIn some parts of Italy, a party, known as a Serenade, is thrown outside of the bride's home by the groom. His family and friends come and wait for the bride, entertaining themselves until she appears. The groom then sings to his bride to further seduce her. Once his song is sung, the party ends.\n\nThe day of the wedding, the groomsmen try their hardest to make the groom as uncomfortable as possible by saying things like \"Maybe she forgot where the church is\".\n\nIt is also traditional for the grooms family to give a dowry to the bride and to provide the engagement ring. The bride's family is then responsible for receiving the guests of the wedding in their home for a reception afterward.\n\nThe color green is very important in the Italian wedding. In Italy, the tradition of something blue is replaced with something green. This color brings good luck to the married couple. The veil and bridesmaids also were important in an Italian wedding. The tradition began in Ancient Rome when the veil was used to hide the bride from any spirits that would corrupt her and the bridesmaids were to wear similar outfits so that the evil spirits were further confused.\n\nAn old Roman custom was that brides threw nuts at rejected suitors as they left the ceremony.\n\nAfter dessert, more dancing commences, gifts are given, and the guests eventually begin to leave. In Southern Italy, as the guests leave, they hand envelopes of money to the bride and groom, who return the gift with a wedding favor or bomboniere, a small token of appreciation.\n\nIn Polish weddings, the celebrations may continue for two or three days. In the past, the engagement ceremony was organized by the future groom as a formal family gathering, during which he asked his chosen lady to marry him. In the recent years this custom has changed and today an engagement is much more personal and intimate. An elegant dinner party afterward is still a nice way to inform the closest family members about the couples' decision to get married.\n\nIn some regions of Poland, the tradition to invite the wedding guests in person is still upheld. Many young couples, accompanied by the parents, visit their family and friends to hand them the wedding invitations personally.\n\nAccording to the old tradition, a groom arrives with his parents at the house of a bride just before the wedding ceremony. At that time, both parents and parents-in-law give a young couple their blessing. The couple enter the church together and walks up to the altar followed by two witnesses and the parents. In Poland, it is quite unusual for the bride to be walked down the aisle or to have bridesmaids and groomsmen in a wedding. The couple is assisted by two witnesses, a man (usually grooms' side) and a woman (usually brides' side) who are either family members or close friends.\n\nThe Polish bride traditionally wears a white dress and a veil. The groom, on the other hand, usually wears a fitted suit with a bow tie and a boutonnière that matches the brides' bouquet. During the ceremony, wedding rings are exchanged and both the husband and wife wear them on their right hand. Right after the ceremony, the closest family and all the guest form a line in the front of the church to congratulate the newlyweds and wish them love and happiness. As soon as the married couple leave the church they get showered with rice for luck or guests drop coins at their feet for them to pick up. This is done to ensure a good and prosperous future for the newlyweds.\n\nOnce all the guests have showered the couple with kisses, hugs and flowers everyone heads to the reception. It is a custom in Poland to prepare \"passing gates\" on the way to the reception for the newlyweds who, in order to pass, have to give the \"gate keepers\" some vodka. This is a misinterpretation of an earlier tradition, where the \"passing gates\" were built if the bride was an orphan and money collected by \"gate keepers\" from the guests was handed over to the bride as her dowry (being an orphan usually implied poverty).\n\nThe married couple is welcomed at the reception place by the parents with bread and salt. The bread symbolizes the prosperity, salt stands for hardship of life, the parents wish the young couple that they never go hungry and learn how to deal with every day hardships together. The wedding party lasts (and the bride and groom remain) until the last guest leaves, usually until morning.\n\nIn Poland, movements like Human Liberties Crusade or Wedding of the Weddings promote non-alcoholic wedding celebrations.\n\nLăutari are Romanian musicians performing traditional songs. The music of the lăutari establishes the structure of the elaborate Romanian weddings. The lăutari also function as guides through the wedding rituals and moderate any conflicts that may arise during what can be a long, alcohol-fueled party. Over a period of nearly 48 hours, this can be very physically strenuous.\n\nFollowing custom almost certainly dating back at least to the Middle Ages, most lăutari spend the fees from these wedding ceremonies on extended banquets for their friends and families over the days immediately following the wedding.\n\nThe wedding begins at the Town hall where the couple literally gets married in the presence of their closest friends and relatives. After that, they go to the bride's house where the Lăutari come and sing themed songs like \"Ia-ți mireasă ziua bună\" (Say goodbye, bride) while the bride, the groom and the couple's parents take part in a symbolic preparation for the wedding (the best man and the best maid put a flower on their chests, arrange the groom's tie and shaves him and put the bride's veil, all in front of a big mirror decorated with pieces of veil and white flowers, mirror that separates the bride from the groom). They then go to the church where the religious ceremony is performed. Afterwords they go to a restaurant where the banquet begins.\n\nThe newlyweds meet the guests at the entrance and they serve a glass of champagne while the Lautari sing the \"Marș de intampinare\" (meeting march). After all the guests have arrived, the couple breaks the ice and starts dancing a waltz. Later on, the chefs do \"Dansul găinii\" (the chicken dance: they dress up a roasted chicken and decorate it and they dance with it while the best man negotiate the chicken's price with them).\n\nAnother tradition is bride kidnapping. A few friends of the newlywed stake the bride while the groom is not paying attention and take her somewhere else, usually to a club. The groom is then forced to negotiate the bride's price and to redeem it, but not until the \"criminals\" show evidence of having the bride ( a shoe, her necklace, etc.). Usually, the \"thieves\" ask for beverage. They then take the bride back to the wedding and as a punishment they are forced to dance a waltz with the bride lifted up.\n\nIt is normal to wish the bride and groom \"Casa de Piatra\" (Stone house) which symbolizes a solid marriage.\n\nA traditional Russian wedding lasts for at least two days and some weddings last as long as a week. Throughout the celebration there is dancing, singing, long toasts, and food and drinks. The best man and maid of honor are called witnesses, \"svideteli\" in Russian. The ceremony and the ring exchange takes place on the first day of the wedding.\n\nThroughout the years, Russian weddings have adopted many western customs, including bridesmaids and flower girls.\nDuring the wedding feast any of the guests can start chanting \"Gor'ko\" (\"bitter\") which usually is immediately supported by the rest of the guests. In this case bride and groom should kiss each other and the kiss should last for as long as the chanting continues. It's customary for the bride to eat a spoonful of sour cream on your wedding day.\n\nIn a Swedish church wedding, the priest generally doesn't say when the couple may kiss each other, in contrast to Anglo-Saxon traditions. It is probably because the kiss doesn't traditionally belong to Swedish wedding customs, but has relatively recently been associated with marriage.\n\nIn Swedish weddings, the bride and groom usually go down the aisle together, rather than the bride being escorted by her father. The symbolism is that of a free man and a free woman voluntarily uniting in marriage.\n\nIt is custom in Sweden that instead of guests bringing gifts for the bride and groom, they will pay for the dinner and drinks in order to help pay for the cost of the wedding. An older tradition is that the bride's parents will give her one gold and one silver coin, which she puts in her shoe. \n\nIn Sweden, instead of getting two wedding rings, the tradition is to get three. One for the engagement, one for the marriage, and then one when the couple has their first child. \n\nUnlike the United States, it is also customary have a simple wedding party, consisting of one or two bride's maid and one groom's man. Lastly, at the wedding party the couple is placed at the head of a U shaped table instead of a separate head table for the bridal party. \n\nIn Albanian traditional weddings, the dress of the Muslim bride is characterized by its elegance and transparency, in that of the Catholic one can see full colors. The Catholic bride's dress is characterized by its picturesque effects and harmony.\n\nThere are two types of Muslim wedding dresses. One is worked on a \"shajak\" (large piece of wool) and with floral motives worked with \"gajtan\" (kind of rope) black cotton, sometimes mixed with green. The other one is worked in the same material but with red color. Different from the first here the motifs are enriched with full colors. These dresses have a belt worked with gold and grain necklaces in red, rose, orange creating all together a warm surface. Here the motifs are very small.\n\nThis gallery of costumes, richness of colors, sentiments are a big experience of lots of years of a population like the Albanians, not only for the ability to conserve alive the tradition, inheriting it generations after generations, but also for conserving the high technique of elaboration or the high artistic level.\n\nThe dress of a Catholic bride from Shkodër is tripped from the transparent white, shiny, soft, which spreads all over the body, and is intended to suggest tranquility and a warm purity. This concept of tradition is achieved through the white of the base material and the gold thread over. This dress is composed by the \"barnaveke\": some kind of very long pants which seem a skirt. In the upper part is worn a shirt and over it a \"jelek\" (waistcoat).\n\nRitual songs name various elements which contain \"paja\" (pronounced \"paya\") of the girl, which are the goods parents give to the daughter to wear, to furnish the house, gifts for her husband and the intimate cousins. Elements are typically made by weaving clothes using looms. The preparation of the \"paja\" for the parents of the bride is a pleasure which means also accomplishing the obligations toward the daughter. This is also an expression of the love of parents, but is connected with the economical conditions of the family.\n\n\"Dhunti\" in Shkodra means the gifts that the groom prepares for the bride during the engagement, mainly clothes, jewelry, gold ornaments and tricks, which are sent to her a few days before the wedding. In addition to those received by the family of his father, the bride takes many gifts from the groom and his family. \"Dhuntia\", which had a considerable monetary value, was prepared with great care by the family of the boy, because in some way embodied respect and love for his young bride, to whom these gifts were made, love for their son that he married at the same time was also a representation of the family in its economic and aesthetic. In \"dhunti\" there were enough clothes and items for use at all times, in joy and in sorrow, which expressed particular attention to the role of women.\n\n\"See: Bengali Hindu wedding and Bengali Muslim wedding\"\n\nBengali wedding refers to both Muslim and Hindu weddings in Bangladesh and West Bengal, India. Although Muslim and Hindu marriages have their distinctive religious rituals, there are many common cultural rituals in marriages across religion among Bengali people.\n\nIndian weddings take anywhere from five minutes to several days, depending on region, religion, and a variety of other factors. Due to the diversity of Indian culture, the wedding style, ceremony and rituals may vary greatly amongst various states, regions, religions and castes. In certain regions, it is quite common that during the traditional wedding days, there would be a \"tilak\" ceremony (where the groom is anointed on his forehead), a ceremony for adorning the bride's hand and feet with henna (called \"mehendi\") accompanied by \"Ladies' Sangeet (music and dance)\", and many other pre-wedding ceremonies. Another important ceremony followed in certain areas is the \"Haldi\" program where the bride and the groom are anointed with turmeric paste. All of the close relatives make sure that they have anointed the couple with turmeric. In certain regions, on the day of the wedding \"proper\", the Bridegroom, his friends and relatives come singing and dancing to the wedding site in a procession called \"baraat\", and then the religious rituals take place to solemnize the wedding, according to the religion of the couple. While the groom may wear traditional \"Sherwani\" or \"dhoti\" or Western suit, or some other local costume, his face, in certain regions, is usually veiled with a mini-curtain of flowers called \"sehra\". In certain regions, the bride (Hindu or Muslim) always wears red clothes, never white because white symbolizes widowhood in Indian culture. In Southern and Eastern states the bride usually wears a Sari, but in northern and central states the preferred garment is a decorated Red skirt-blouse and veil called \"lehenga\". After the solemnization of marriage, the bride departs with her husband. This is a very sad event for the bride's relatives because traditionally she is supposed to permanently \"break-off\" her relations with her blood relatives to join her husband's family. Among Christians in the state of Kerala, the bridegroom departs with the bride's family. The wedding may be followed by a \"reception\" by the groom's parents at the groom's place. While gifts and money to the couple are commonly given, the traditional \"dowry\" from the bride's parents to the couple is now officially forbidden by law.\n\nA Pakistani wedding typically consist of four ceremonies on four separate days. It may consist of 3 days if the first function called \"Mehndi\" is done in a combined manner by both the bride and groom's family.\n\nThe first function is Mehndi in which the families get together and celebrate the upcoming wedding function. On this day, it is customary to wear either green, yellow, orange, or other vibrant colors. The bride-to-be gets her hands painted with henna, and songs and dances go on throughout the night.The next day is \"baraat\" which is hosted by the bride's family. This event is usually held in a reception hall, and the groom comes over with his family and friends; a large feast is given. The bride's friends and relatives are also present, and the Baraat event can be considered the 'main' wedding event as it is the largest one out of all the events. Then there is the holy ceremony of \"Nikah\" which is performed by a religious \"Pastor\" or \"imam\", after which bride and groom are declared as husband and wife.The Next day there is a function of \"Walima\" in which the groom's family is the host and the bride's family come over for a big feast.\n\nOn her wedding day, the bride-to-be can wear any color she wants, but vibrant colors and lots of traditional gold jewelry are typically worn. It is customary for the bride to wear traditional clothes such as a \"lahnga\", \"shalwar kameez\", or \"sari\". These weddings are also typical of the Muslim community in India.\n\nSri Lankan weddings are typically celebrated as two functions in two days. In the first day, bride's family hosts the event and the poruwa ceremony takes place. The both bride and groom wears the traditional Kandyan dress and most traditional customs happen in the first day. The traditional honeymoon and the second day hosts by the groom's family and treat bride and her family with foods and entertainment.\nMinor communities in Sri Lanka are also celebrates the wedding ceremony in a similar way with slightly different functions and different traditional dresses. Tamil people wears traditional Tamil wedding dresses and they replace poruwa ceremony with traditional Hindu wedding ceremony. Burgher people wears western traditional dresses and they marry in church as in popular western culture. Sri Lankan Moors celebrates the wedding with added Islam customs.\n\nTraditional Chinese marriage is a ceremonial ritual within Chinese societies that involve a marriage established by pre-arrangement between families. Within the traditional Chinese culture, romantic love was allowed, and monogamy was the norm for most ordinary citizens. A band of musicians with gongs and double-reed instruments accompanies the bridal parade to the groom's home. Similar music is also played at the wedding banquet. Depending on the region from which the bride hails, Chinese weddings will have different traditions such as the Tea Ceremony or the use of a wedding emcee. Also, in modern times, Chinese couples will often go to photo studios to take \"glamour shots,\" posing in multiple gowns and various backgrounds.\n\nMost regional Chinese wedding rituals follow the main Chinese wedding traditions, although some rituals are particular to the peoples of the southern China region. In most southern Chinese weddings, the bride price is based on the groom's economic status. The idea of \"selling the daughter\" or bride is not a phrase that is used often. Therefore, the price of the bride does not tend to be too demanding. Most of the time, the bride price is in the form of gold jewelry, fine fabric, money, or even a roast pig, which symbolizes that the bride is a virgin. Wedding presents are given by elderly couples or couples that are older than the newlyweds, while tea is served by the younger family members.\n\nJapanese customs fall into two categories: traditional Shinto ceremonies, and modern Western-style ceremonies. In either case, the couple must first be legally married by filing for marriage at their local government office, and the official documentation must be produced in order for the ceremony to be held.\n\nBefore ever getting married there are two types of mate selection that may occur with the couple: (1) \"miai\", or an arranged marriage and (2) \"ren ai\", or a love match. The Japanese bride-to-be may be painted pure white from head to toe, visibly declaring her maiden status to the gods. Two choices of headgear exist. One, the \"watabōshi\", is a white hood; the other, called the \"tsunokakushi\", serves to hide the bride's 'horns of jealousy.' It also symbolizes the bride's intention to become a gentle and obedient wife.\nTraditional Japanese wedding customs (shinzen shiki) involve an elaborate ceremony held at a Shinto shrine. Japanese weddings are being increasingly extravagant with all the elaborate details placed into thought. However, in some cases, younger generations choose to abandon the formal ways by having a \"no host party\" for a wedding. In this situation, the guests include mainly of the couple's friends who pay an attendance fee.\n\nIn recent years, the \"Western Style Wedding\" (influenced by Christian weddings) has become the choice of most couples in Japan. An industry has sprung up, dedicated to providing couples with a ceremony modeled after church rituals. Japanese western style weddings are generally held in a chapel, either in a simple or elaborate ceremony, often at a dedicated wedding chapel within a hotel.\n\nBefore the ceremony, there is a rehearsal. Often during this rehearsal, the bride's mother lowers the veil for her daughter, signifying the last act that a mother can do for her daughter, before \"giving her away\". The father of the bride, much like in Western ceremonies, walks the bride down the aisle to her awaiting groom.\n\nAfter the rehearsal comes the procession. The wedding celebrant will often wear a wedding cross, or cana, a cross with two interlocking wedding rings attached, which symbolize a couple's commitment to sharing a life together in the bonds of holy matrimony. The wedding celebrant gives a brief welcome and an introductory speech before announcing the bride's entrance. The procession ends with the groom bowing to the bride's father. The father bows in return.\n\nThe service then starts. The service is given either in Japanese, English or quite often, a mix of both. It follows Protestant ceremony, relaxed and not overtly religious. Typically part of 1 Corinthians 13 is read from the Bible. After the reading, there is a prayer and a short message, explaining the sanctity of the wedding vows (\"seiyaku\"). The bride and groom share their vows and exchange rings. The chapel register is signed and the new couple is announced. This is often followed by the traditional wedding kiss. The service can conclude with another hymn and a benediction.\n\nWith the two types of ceremonies, Shinto and Western, available it was bound for the two to be combined into what is called a contemporary Japanese wedding. Contemporary Japanese weddings are celebrated in many ways. On the beginning of the wedding day, the participants are to get ready at the parlor's beauty shop. The responsibility of the beauty shop is to dress the bride, the groom, and the other participants in the formal Japanese attire. Dressing the bride is an important task because the bride is to change into several outfits throughout her wedding day. Due to the complexity of the design, dressing a bride can be difficult and time consuming and for this reason the bride must be the first person to arrive two hours prior to the wedding ceremony. The bride's attire consists of an extravagant kimono, heavy make-up, a wig, and a head covering. An hour prior to the wedding ceremony, the guests and the groom should start to arrive.\n\nWhen everyone is dressed in their formal attire, the bride and the groom are to separate from each other and meet their close relatives in a waiting room. The relatives present will appear in the family photo and will also attend the religious ceremony. During this gathering, the kaizoe (assistant) will inform the participants of what will take place and what they should do during the day since they are not familiar with the ceremony.\n\nWhen all is understood, the relatives and participants are brought to the photo studio where the professional photographs are to be taken. Taking the photographs of the bride, the groom, and their relatives is considered to be the central part of the wedding day. The photographs of the couple and their family are designed to represent the couple's prospective future together.\n\nAfter the lengthy photo session, the bride, the groom, and others are brought to the Shinto shrine. Nowadays, the Shinto shrine may be conveniently located inside a hotel where all the activities will take place. A Shinto priest conducts the ceremony. In the ceremony, the bride and the groom are purified. However, the ceremony's important event occurs when the bride and the groom exchange nuptial cups of \"sake\" also known as \"san-san-ku-do\". With the addition of Western tradition, the exchange of rings and weddings vows also take place. Those guests who did not attend the religious ceremony are able to view the ceremony on video screens located in the lobby.\n\nLike Western-style traditions, a reception takes place right after the wedding ceremony. The guests of the reception include family members, friends, and colleagues. Due to the wedding industry's attempt to maximize time and space, the reception will last exactly two hours. The reception does not include any random activities, but follows a strict order of events. The reception includes dramatic entrances by the bride and the groom with special effects, speeches, and other performances.\n\nThroughout the reception, the bride shall receive the guests' utmost attention because she changes two to three times for the dramatic entrances. With all the dramatic entrances, the groom will join the bride. For example, the first entrance includes the bride, the groom, and the \"nakodo\" couple. \"Nakodo\" means a \"matchmaker\" or a \"go-between\", which is usually referred to the husband. The \"nakodo\" couple plays such an important role that their names appear on the announcement of the wedding. The purpose of the \"nakodo\" is to symbolize a stable marriage. As the two couples appear a special effect of a cloud of white smoke will appear to surround them. Simultaneously, the hall lights are dimmed and the stage lighting will turn to the color of rose-pink; this astonishes the guests. Pictures are to be taken during the dramatic entrances of the bride and the groom. After the photographs have been taken, they will be led back to their table.\n\nAt this point the Master of Ceremonies will congratulate the newlyweds and their family. He/she will then introduce the \"nakodo\", who will start the opening speeches and more speeches will follow. Being that the reception is highly structured the speakers will have the idea of being formal and concise in mind. With all the speeches finished, the bride and the groom will perform the Western-style traditions, which include the following: (1) the cake cutting ceremony and (2) the newlyweds' first dance as husband and wife.\n\nThe next part of the reception is the toast, or \"kanpai\", which simplifies the mood of the reception where the guests can start to relax, eat, and drink. What follows the toast are the short congratulatory speeches made by relatives, friends, and colleagues. During this time, the bride has gone to change into her first costume and continues throughout the reception. However, the groom will also have a chance to change into his costume, which is the Western tuxedo. By the end of the night, both the bride and the groom have changed from their traditional Japanese attire to their Western-style attire.\n\nAfter their last change of costumes, the newlyweds will perform the candle service. Both will have a long, unlit candle, which will be lit from the table where their parents are seated. Next, the couple will walk around the room in a circle and light the candles placed on their guests' table. Once all the candles are lit, the newlyweds will return to their table where they will light what is called the Memorial Candle.\n\nBy the time the candle service is done the two hours restriction will soon expire. The remaining few minutes includes short speeches, songs, dances, etc. As the reception ends a flower presentation ceremony will take place, which is where the newlyweds will present their parents with a gift of flowers to display appreciation for their parents raising them to the people they are today. At this point, the reception has ended with quick flashes and farewells.\n\nThe groom usually wears the Barong Tagalog during the wedding, along with the male attendants, though nowadays the wealthy opt to don Western attire such as a tuxedo. Weddings held within the same year by two siblings, usually sisters, called \"Sukob\" are frowned upon as it is regarded as bad luck. Some hold it that the wedding rings dropping to the ground is a portent of bad luck (this is usually said to the ring bearer to ensure that the child is careful in handling the rings). Money, in the form of paper bills, is sometimes taped or pinned to the groom and bride's dress during their first dance.\n\nSingapore is a highly inter-racial country in Southeast Asia. The main races of people in Singapore include Chinese, Malay, Indian and Eurasians. As a result of that, the types of wedding customs in Singapore vary relatively widely. For the majority of Chinese, weddings in Singapore would have a day event where the groom will pick up the bride with a tea ceremony followed by a church lunch or dinner banquet.\n\nA Malay wedding ceremony spreads over two days, beginning with the \"akad nikah\" ceremony on the first day. The groom signs the marriage contract and agrees to provide the bride with a \"mas kahwin\" (dowry). After that, their hands are dyed with henna during the berinai besar ceremony.\nOn the second day, the bride is with her family and friends with musicians and bunga manggar or palm blossom carriers at the bride's house. At the house they are greeted with sprinkling of yellow rice and scented water.\n\nAs a matrilineal society, the bride family will be the one who proposes to the groom. This tradition is called \"maminang\". If proposal is accepted, they will sign marriage contract. For the ceremony,\"manjapuik marapulai \", the bride family will invite the groom, . Then they will be shown to the public as newly married couple\n\nMost weddings in the United States follow a similar pattern to an English wedding. It traditionally follows the \"white wedding\" type (see also \"Wedding types\" below), which originates from the white color of the bride's wedding dress, but refers to an entire wedding routine. Customs and traditions vary, but common components are listed below.\n\nThe purpose of inviting guests is to have them witness a couple's marriage ceremony and vows and to share in their joy and celebration. Gifts for the wedding couple are optional, although most guests attempt to give at least a token gift of their best wishes. Some couples and families feel that in return for the expense they put into entertaining and feeding their guests, the guests should pay them with similarly expensive gifts or cash. Others believe this is contrary to proper etiquette.\n\nThe couple often registers for gifts at a store well in advance of their wedding. This allows them to create a list of household items, usually including china, silverware and crystalware, linens or other fabrics, pots and pans, \"etc.\" Registries are intended to aid guests in selecting gifts the newlyweds truly want, and the service is sufficiently profitable that most retailers, from luxury shops to discount stores, offer the opportunity. Registry information should, according to etiquette, be provided only to guests upon direct request, and never included in the invitation. Some couples additionally or instead register with services that enable money gifts intended to fund items such as a honeymoon, home purchase or college fund. Some find bridal registries inappropriate as they contravene traditional notions behind gifts, such as that all gifts are optional and delightful surprises personally chosen by the giver, and that registries lead to a type of price-based competition, as the couple knows the cost of each gift. Traditionally, weddings were considered a personal event and inviting people to the wedding who are not known to at least one member of the couple well enough to be able to choose an appropriate gift was considered inappropriate, and registries should therefore be unnecessary. Whether considered appropriate or not, others believe that weddings are opportunities to extract funds or specific gifts from as many people as possible, and that even an invitation carries an expectation of monetary reward rather than merely congratulations.\n\nLetters of thanks for any gift are traditionally sent promptly after the gift's receipt. Tradition allows wedding gifts to be sent up to a year after the wedding date. Thanks should be sent as soon as possible, preferably within two weeks.\n\nJumping the broom developed out of the West African Asante custom. The broom in Ashanti and other Akan cultures also held spiritual value and symbolized sweeping away past wrongs or warding off evil spirits. Brooms were waved over the heads of marrying couples to ward off spirits. The couple would often but not always jump over the broom at the end of the ceremony.\n\nThe custom took on additional significance in the context of slavery in the United States. Slaves had no right to legal marriage; slaveholders considered slaves property and feared that legal marriage and family bonds had the potential to lead to organization and revolt. Marriage rituals, however, were important events to the Africans, who came in many cases come from richly ceremonial African cultures.\n\nTaking marriage vows in the presence of a witness and then leaping over the handle of a broom became the common practice to create a recognized union. Brooms are also symbols of the hearth, the center of the new family being created.\n\nThere are also traditions of broom jumping in Europe, in the Wicca and Celtic communities especially.\n\nThe South American country of Brazil features a host of traditions and customs within its culture. For Brazilian brides, these traditions lead to extravagant, fun-filled weddings.\n\n\n\n\nThe Brazilian culture is very rich with its numerous traditions, celebrations, and in many cases superstitions. Wedding celebrations are definitely inserted in this context. This is considered a festive event for the Brazilian society and thus it is usually celebrated with a lot of music, dances and overall happiness.\n"}
{"id": "1189233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189233", "title": "Word count", "text": "Word count\n\nThe word count is the number of words in a document or passage of text. Word counting may be needed when a text is required to stay within certain numbers of words. This may particularly be the case in academia, legal proceedings, journalism and advertising. Word count is commonly used by translators to determine the price for the translation job. Word counts may also be used to calculate measures of readability and to measure typing and reading speeds (usually in words per minute). When converting character counts to words, a measure of 5 or 6 characters to a word is generally used for English.\n\nVariations in the operational definitions of how to count the words can occur (namely, what \"counts as\" a word, and which words \"don't count\" toward the total). However, especially since the advent of widespread word processing, there is a broad consensus on these operational definitions (and hence the bottom-line integer result). The consensus is to accept the text segmentation rules generally found in most word processing software (including how word boundaries are determined, which depends on how word dividers are defined). The first trait of that definition is that a space (any of various whitespace characters, such as a \"regular\" word space, an em space, or a tab character) is a word divider. Usually a hyphen or a slash is, too. Different word counting programs may give varying results, depending on the text segmentation rule details, and on whether words outside the main text (such as footnotes, endnotes, or hidden text) are counted. But the behavior of most major word processing applications is broadly similar.\n\nHowever, during the era when school assignments were done in handwriting or with typewriters, the rules for these definitions often differed from today's consensus. Most importantly, many students were drilled on the rule that \"certain words don't count\", usually articles (namely, \"a\", \"an\", \"the\"), but sometimes also others, such as conjunctions (for example, \"and\", \"or\", \"but\") and some prepositions (usually \"to\", \"of\"). Hyphenated permanent compounds such as \"follow-up\" (noun) or \"long-term\" (adjective) were counted as one word. To save the time and effort of counting word-by-word, often a rule of thumb for the average number of words per line was used, such as 10 words per line. These \"rules\" have fallen by the wayside in the word processing era; the \"word count\" feature of such software (which follows the text segmentation rules mentioned earlier) is now the standard arbiter, because it is largely consistent (across documents and applications) and because it is fast, effortless, and costless (already included with the application).\n\nAs for which sections of a document \"count\" toward the total (such as footnotes, endnotes, abstracts, reference lists and bibliographies, tables, figure captions, hidden text), the person in charge (teacher, client) can define their choice, and users (students, workers) can simply select (or exclude) the elements accordingly, and watch the word count automatically update.\n\nModern web browsers support word counting via extensions, via a JavaScript bookmarklet, or a script that is hosted in a website. Most word processors can also count words. Unix-like systems include a program, \"wc\", specifically for word counting. There are a wide variety of word counting tools available online.\n\nAs explained earlier, different word counting programs may give varying results, depending on the text segmentation rule details. The exact number of words often is not a strict requirement, thus the variation is acceptable.\n\nNovelist Jane Smiley suggests that length is an important quality of the novel. However, novels can vary tremendously in length; Smiley lists novels as typically being between 100,000 and 175,000 words, while National Novel Writing Month requires its novels to be at least 50,000 words. There are no firm rules: for example, the boundary between a novella and a novel is arbitrary and a literary work may be difficult to categorise. But while the length of a novel is to a large extent up to its writer, lengths may also vary by subgenre; many chapter books for children start at a length of about 16,000 words, and a typical mystery novel might be in the 60,000 to 80,000 word range while a thriller could be well over 100,000 words.\n\nThe Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America specifies word lengths for each category of its Nebula award categories:\n\nThe acceptable length of an academic dissertation varies greatly, dependent predominantly on the subject. Numerous American universities limit Ph.D. dissertations to 100,000 words, barring special permission for exceeding this limit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57117434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57117434", "title": "Writing anxiety", "text": "Writing anxiety\n\nWriting anxiety is a term for the tension, worry, nervousness, and a wide variety of other negative feelings. when given a writing task in certain situations. Some may feel may feel anxious about writing an essay for school, but writing an email on the same topic doesn't trigger the anxiety. Others may feel fine fine writing a lab report, but writing a letter to loved one triggers the anxiety.\n\nWriting anxiety can occur when \n\n\nThere are many ways to manage writing anxiety. \n\n"}
{"id": "39251212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39251212", "title": "ZANEWS", "text": "ZANEWS\n\nZANEWS (now also known as \"Puppet Nation ZA\") is a South African satirical puppet show first produced in 2008 by Both Worlds, a Cape Town based production company. The show is a daily and weekly satirical news programme in the form of a mock puppet television newscast and features on both the web and TV. \"ZANEWS\" features key local and international political figures and celebrities. For eight seasons, \"ZANEWS\" has been using its puppet cast as mouthpieces for satirical commentary on South Africa's public space.\n\nInspired by the cult British television series \"Spitting Image\" along with the French equivalent, \"Les Guignols\", \"ZANEWS\" has been aired on the web and TV since 2009 on a range of media platforms, the most prolific of these being the show's online presence. The show's motto of 'Make Laugh. Not War’ has perpetuated the show's portrayal of South African and international politicians and celebrities in its news format. The show is the only South African satirical puppet show, but is somewhat similar to the Kenyan produced The XYZ Show.\n\nIn September 2016 it was announced that \"Puppet Nation ZA\" is a nominee for Best TV Comedy in the 44th International Emmy Awards.\n\n\"ZANEWS\" started in 1997 when French producer Thierry Cassuto and South African cartoonist Jonathan Shapiro with the help of Jeffrey Fineberg from \"Spitting Image\" made their first puppet of former South African president Nelson Mandela. \"Shapiro was invited to a farewell garden party and sneaked the Mandela puppet in. He approached Mandela, much to the mirth of the members of government and politicians present and extended the puppet’s hand. Mandela didn’t miss a beat of course and shook the puppet’s hand saying: ‘Oh, I believe I have met this gentleman before’\".\n\nThe show launched its first season on the ZANEWS website and YouTube with the assistance of low cost airline Kulula.com. Cassuto and Zapiro spent years trying to shop \"ZANEWS\" to a variety of broadcasters. The show was commissioned by the national broadcaster but when they demanded editorial control the deal fell apart. “People aren’t ready for this,” was the message they got time and time again. And this was incorporated into the script and the show's slogan of ‘Why are we doing this? Because here we can!'\n\nThe storylines of Season 1 to 8 have developed along the lines of current news stories and events, with more characters being added to the show’s lineup. The eighth season of \"ZANEWS\" began in November 2014. The show's YouTube channel has over 4 million hits to date. \"ZANEWS\" is produced South Africa with puppet caricatures of mostly local politicians, celebrities and the everyman, bringing audiences a mix of the latest and most current events, parodying the formulaic style of media broadcasting.\n\nIn 2012 the show began airing on TopTV's channel Top One, a South African satellite TV service. hey also launched a bigger website, ‘ZANEWS Network’, meant to be the online portal for quality South African satire. The site hosts their weekly episodes and daily videos shows as well as the best satirical columns, fake news, cartoons and user-generated content. In the same year the co-creator of \"Spitting Image\", Roger Law made a documentary for BBC Radio 4, entitled \"South Africa Spits Back\". Law visited \"ZANEWS\" in South Africa to find out just how 'colourful comedy can get in the Rainbow Nation'.\n\nIn November 2013, the show started its sixth season on StarSat (formerly TopTV) under the new title \"Puppet Nation\". ZA\n\nShows are recorded and produced at the Both World's studios in Cape Town. All departments, from management, writers, crew, and fabrication along with post-production and on-line management are found on these premises.\n\n\"Puppet Nation\" is structured as a 30-minute news show and the turnaround time from script to online / televised broadcast is three working days, which means \"ZANEWS\" is able to produce a weekly news show that is extremely current, with close to 80 puppet caricatures of local and international celebrities. Justice Malala and Debora Patta host the show.\n\nThe characters consist predominantly of South African politicians with a growing number of international celebrities and sports personalities joining the ranks each year, namely individuals that would be likely to feature in the general news, the show is therefore structured as such.\n\nWhen the show first began, Tim Modise, as the news anchor, with the ‘ZANEWS team’, investigates the top stories of the day and interviews and engages with a number of prominent South African and foreign politicians, celebrities and sports stars as a news show would. He was joined in Season 5 by firebrand reporter Debora Patta (whose strange orange skin tone the show makes fun of) then by popular political analyst Justice Malala in season 6.\n\nSeparated from the news show is the Tata and Tutu skit which involves a parody of Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu discussing the events of the day but also offering their opinions on these current issues and regarded as the 'moral voices'.\n\nOn a number of occasions, the puppet cast has been joined by well known comedians along with their real-life counterparts. Season 4 saw a number of these ‘in the flesh’ shows in which certain politicians and celebrities featured in the show along with their puppet counterparts. Most striking of these episodes were those of Premier of the Western Cape and official opposition leader Helen Zille and, at the other end of the political spectrum, Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU)’s General Secretary Zwelinzima Vavi, who interacted with their puppet counterparts. News anchor Tim Modise, radio DJ Gareth Cliff, sportsman Pieter de Villiers and comedians Riaad Moosa, Marc Lottering and Nik Rabinowitz also featured on the show.\n\nIn 2010 \"ZANEWS\" collaborated with a South African band Freshlyground on their music video for their song \"Chicken To Change\". The video was nominated for \"Music Video of the Year\" at the 17th Annual South African Music Awards (SAMA) sponsored by MTN. The government of Zimbabwe banned Freshlyground over the music video because it portrays its president Robert Mugabe as a chicken afraid to relinquish power.\n\nIn August 2014 \"ZANEWS\" released a parody of ‘Wrecking Ball’ by Miley Cyrus. The video starred the puppet of South Africa's Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, and the lyrics were written by popular South African comedian, Deep Fried Man. The video received over 122 000 views between its release and February 2015 and received massive media attention, with Thuli Madonsela herself discussing it on eNCA.\n\nSeries\n\nSince 2009 the show has been broadcast through a variety of media platforms. These are on certain television channels, Summit TV, TopTV and Cape Town TV. And the show has its own home on the \"ZANEWS\" website, YouTube channel, Twitter and Facebook page.\n\nIn 2012 \"ZANEWS\" started their new website, which featured satirical content from all around South Africa. The site became more interactive, with visitors being able to sign up as 'Bloody Agents' and featuring columns from 'Agent Provocateurs' such as Andrew Donaldson, Chester Missing, Ndumiso Ngcobo, Marianne Thamm, Ben Trovato and Political Agony Aunt Zama Ndlovu. The site also featured satirical cartoons from Zapiro, Brandan and Gado.\n\n2010: Adfocus Newsmaker of the year\n<br>\n2010: South African Blog Awards: Winner, Best South African Podcast Video Blog\n<br>\n2010: Bookmark Awards: Best Online Video, Best use of Video/Audio (incl. podcasts)\n<br>\n2010: Handspring Awards for Puppetry: Best Design\n<br> \n2011: DMMA Bookmark Awards: Silver Winner in Category: Editorial (media- news, magazines, radio and TV stations/networks), Bronze Winner in Category: Podcasts and Videocasts\n<br>\n2011: South African Blog Awards: Runner up in Best Political Category Awards\n<br>\n2012: Bookmark Awards: Best Editorial Team \n<br>\n2012: Bookmarks: Bronze in Core Award for Websites/Microsites/Mobisites – Specialist Publisher Sites \n<br>\n2012: Bookmarks: Bronze in Integrated/Mixed Media – Multi-platform Publisher\n<br>\n2012: Bookmarks: Silver Craft Award for Editorial\n<br>\n2013: South African Film and Television Awards: Best Ensemble in a TV Comedy\n<br>\n2013: SAFTAs: Best Editor of a TV Comedy\n<br>\n2013: SAFTAs: Best Art Direction of a TV Comedy\n<br>\n2014 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) – Best TV Comedy\n<br>\n2014 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) - Best Director in a TV Comedy\n<br>\n2014 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) – Best Writing Team in a TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 Bookmark Awards: Gold in Core Award for Websites/Microsites/Mobisites – Specialist Publisher Sites \n<br>\n2015 Bookmark Awards: Best Editorial Team\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) - Best TV Comedy \n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) - Best Achievement in Directing – TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) -Best Achievement in Sound – TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) -Best Achievement in Original Score -TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) -Best Achievement in Art Design Production – TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) -Best Achievement in Make-Up and Hair Styling – TV Comedy\n<br>\n2015 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAS) -Best Achievement in Costume Design – TV Comedy\n\nIn October 2015 it was announced that \"Puppet Nation ZA\" was a nominee for Best TV Comedy in the 43rd International Emmy Awards.\n\n"}
