{"id": "55036861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55036861", "title": "1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery", "text": "1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery\n\nThe 1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery, sometimes called the Skylight Caper, took place very early in the morning of September 4 of that year. Three armed robbers used a skylight under repair to gain entry to the museum from its roof, tied up the three guards on duty, and left on foot with 18 paintings, including a rare Rembrandt landscape and works by Jan Brueghel the Elder, Corot, Delacroix, Rubens, and Thomas Gainsborough, as well as some figurines and jewellery. One of the Brueghels was returned by the thieves as an initiative to start ransom negotiations. None of the other paintings has ever been recovered and the robbers have never been arrested or even publicly identified, although there is at least one informal suspect.\n\nCollectively, the missing paintings have been valued at $11.7 million in 2017 dollars; although their value may have diminished since the theft as scholars have called the attribution of some of the works into question. However, the Rembrandt alone has been valued at $1 million; in 2003 \"The Globe and Mail\" estimated it to have appreciated in value to $20 million. The thieves appeared to know what works they were looking for; many of the works had been part of \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a travelling exhibition that had been to many museums in the U.S. and Canada prior to Expo 67, as well as some other special exhibits put on by the museum in the preceding years. It is not only the largest art theft in Canada but the largest theft in Canadian history.\n\nInvestigation of the crime proved difficult in the early going, since it occurred over the Labour Day holiday weekend, when many of the museum's officials including its director were vacationing far away from Montreal. It was further complicated by continuing news coverage of the Blue Bird Café fire, Montreal's deadliest arson, three days earlier, dominating the headlines; the next day the killings of Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the Olympics in Munich further diminished media coverage. A sting operation conceived after the thieves returned the Brueghel (later reattributed to his students) and mailed photos of the other works to the museum seeking a ransom payment went awry; a later attempt to negotiate their return cost the museum $10,000 with no results.\n\nThe thieves took advantage of weakened security, resulting from the renovations at the museum, which had left the skylight's alarm disabled. The renovations and the security flaws were themselves a consequence of the museum's tightening finances, which had worsened during the 1960s as many of the wealthy Anglophone community in Montreal that had supported the museum since its founding in 1860 began to leave for Toronto due to increasing concerns over Quebec separatism, especially after terrorist acts by the Front de libération du Québec had led to martial law in the Montreal area two years earlier. Sûreté du Québec, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Interpol continue to investigate the crime. Theories as to who might be responsible have ranged from the Montreal Mafia to Quebec separatists.\n\nThe Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA) was established in 1860 as the Art Association of Montreal, to encourage art appreciation in the city. It did not start to exhibit works until the late 1870s and 1880s, when wealthy patrons who had prospered from Canada's industrialization began to donate both cash and works, and it was soon able to build Canada's first space explicitly intended for the exhibition of art. In 1913 it built what is currently its main building, now known as the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion, on Sherbrooke Street in the neighborhood known even today as the Golden Square Mile, because it was home to many of the wealthiest and most successful families in Canada.\n\nThese patrons were predominantly of British descent, all members of Montreal's Anglophone elite. At the end of the 1950s, their political and economic domination of the city began to yield to its majority Francophone population, as Quebec separatism began to gain political influence in the province as a whole. Fearing the consequences should the province succeed in seceding, and mindful of the terrorist attacks of the Front de libération du Québec which had led to martial law being declared in the city in 1970, the Anglophone elite began leaving the city over the course of the 1960s.\n\nThis slowly deprived the museum of much of its traditional financial support. In 1957, Bill Bantey, a former journalist who was appointed the museum's head of public relations, began reaching out for the first time in its history to Francophones, with some success. But the contributions from newer philanthropists in the city were not as much as their predecessors had been able to give, and public funds from the province only covered 40 percent of the museum's annual budget.\n\nAs a result, the museum was having to cut back financially in the early 1970s, going from a strictly private institution to a semi-public nonprofit organization. The museum needed to expand, and it needed to renovate the 1913 William Sutherland Maxwell Beaux-Arts building on Sherbrooke Street. The latter was particularly unsuited to the demands of a late-20th century art museum, with many cramped rooms and corridors. The museum planned to close it in 1973 for a three-year renovation project.\n\nOn two prior occasions thieves took, or attempted to take, works from the museum.\n\nOne night in 1933, a person who had hidden in the museum overnight passed 14 paintings, mostly by Canadian artists, to someone else through an open window in the women's lavatory. Later the museum received a ransom note asking $10,000 for the return of the paintings. Three months later, the English-language \"Montreal Star\" and the French \"La Presse\" each received half of one of the paintings in the mail. A note along with them said if a ransom of 25 percent of the remaining paintings' total value was not paid, they too would be returned in pieces.\n\nThe paintings were recovered before that could occur when Paul Thouin, a petty criminal, was arrested after burglarizing a rail freight car. During interrogation, he confessed to stealing the paintings and led police to where he had buried them, wrapped in a tarpaulin with newspapers, in a one-metre-deep (3 ft) sandpit near the village of L'Épiphanie a short distance northeast of Montreal. Thouin, who had shot and killed a police officer attempting to apprehend him in a railroad warehouse, was reportedly terrified at the prospect of being returned to prison for what would likely be a very long time. He committed suicide by poisoning himself with a concealed dose of strychnine in the police lockup that night, before he could stand trial.\n\nA gang of armed robbers attempted to steal some van Gogh paintings during a special exhibition of the artist's work at the museum in 1960. They were foiled and escaped. They have never been identified.\n\nIn Montreal, Labour Day weekend of 1972 began with two major news events, neither of them positive. On the night of Friday, September 1, four men who had been refused entry to a downtown country-and-western bar for being too intoxicated retaliated by setting the club's steps afire; the ensuing blaze killed 37, making it the deadliest fire in the city in 45 years. On the following evening, the Soviet national hockey team defeated their Canadian counterparts 7–3 in the first game of the Summit Series at the Montreal Forum. Canadians, who had expected their team, composed of National Hockey League stars, to overwhelmingly defeat the Soviets, who had only begun competing in international ice hockey a quarter-century earlier, at what Canadians considered their national sport were stunned. Fans in Montreal were eagerly looking ahead to the next game in the series, to be held Monday evening in Toronto.\n\nAt the museum, the board president, director, and director of security were all on vacation in either the United States or Mexico for the holiday weekend. Bantey, the public relations director, was the most senior official in charge.\n\nShortly after midnight on the morning of September 4, police believe, a group of three men gathered out in front of the museum on Sherbrooke Street. They went to the museum's west wall, between it and the Church of St. Andrew and St. Paul. One of the men, who had the same sort of pick-equipped boots used by utility-company workers to climb telephone poles, went up a tree next to the museum and got high enough in it to gain access to the roof. He was able to find a ladder, and lowered it to the other two, who climbed up.\n\nOnce the group was on the roof, they went to a skylight that had been covered by a plastic sheet in the course of some ongoing work. They opened the skylight, without setting off any alarm as the plastic sheet had rendered it inoperative, and lowered a nylon rope to the museum's second floor. All three slid down.\n\nIt had taken them almost an hour and a half to gain entry to the museum. Shortly after they did, around 1:30 a.m., one of the three guards on duty was walking to the kitchen to get some tea. He encountered the thieves, their faces covered by ski masks, who fired both barrels of a pump action shotgun into the ceilings to get his attention and made him lie down on the floor. The noise brought the other two guards, who were unable to resist, and soon all three guards were taken to a lecture hall where they were bound and gagged.\n\nThere, one of the robbers, who carried a .38-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun, stood guard while the other two removed paintings, jewellery and figurines from their displays and brought them to the museum's shipping department. The thieves originally seemed to have planned to leave via the same skylight they had come in through, but eventually they concluded it would take too much time to put together a system of pulleys to get themselves and the stolen artwork out. After finding that one of the guards had a set of keys to one of the museum's panel trucks, they decided instead to flee that way.\n\nHowever, this alternative also went awry. They chose to exit through one of the museum's side entrances, where an alarm went off as they did so. Leaving half their take behind, they fled on foot down Sherbrooke.\n\nBack in the museum, one of the guards worked to free himself. An hour after the robbery ended, around 3 a.m., he succeeded and called Bill Bantey, who told him to call the police. He arrived shortly after the police, along with Ruth Jackson, the museum's curator of decorative arts. After surveying the broken frames, smashed display cases and general disorder the thieves had left, they found that 18 paintings and 38 other pieces had been taken. Collectively they estimated the value of the stolen work at $2 million.\n\nAll of the stolen paintings were by European artists from the 17th through 19th centuries:\n\n\nMost of the paintings taken were small works around a foot (31 cm) along their longest dimension; the three smallest (the Brueghels and Millet's \"La barrateuse\") were less than , smaller than a standard letter-size piece of paper. The largest was the Courbet, at 28 by 36 inches (), with the Gainsborough and Corot's \"Dreamer\" close behind. It was possible that when the thieves ran away each of them held a batch of smaller paintings in one hand and a larger one in the other.\n\nThe thieves also took 38 pieces of jewellery and figurines. Among the former pieces were an 18th-century gold watch once owned by the wife of Jacques Viger, Montreal's first mayor; a 19th-century French blue enamel latch box set with diamonds and two 17th-century Spanish pendants.\n\nLater that morning, Bantey, who had covered the crime beat in Montreal as a journalist prior to his tenure at the museum, held a news conference to discuss the theft. He identified all the stolen works and described how the robbers had entered the museum and taken them. \"They did show quite discriminating taste,\" he told reporters, \"though as far as the objects are concerned, they could do with more art and historical training.\" In their haste to leave, he noted, the thieves had left behind another Rembrandt as well as works by El Greco, Picasso and Tintoretto that they could as easily have taken.\n\nThe news conference was initially effective in publicizing the theft. It, as well as lists of the stolen paintings, were reported as front-page news in many major newspapers across the U.S. and Canada the next morning. As soon as they learned of the theft, Montreal police had also put out the alert to the crossings along the U.S. border, about from Montreal, to look out for the thieves and/or the paintings should anyone attempt to take them to New York City, farther south.\n\nHowever, further publicity that might have drawn attention to the theft and perhaps helped solve it was stymied by news events of September 5. At that year's Summer Olympics in Munich, Palestinian terrorists with Black September took 11 Israeli athletes hostage, eventually killing them along with a German police officer, the following day. Those events were of particular interest in Montreal since the city was preparing to host the next Olympics, and as a result further news about the art theft got less priority in the media. The investigation would continue, however.\n\nFrom interviews with the three guards, police learned that there had been three thieves. The guards saw two of them, describing them as both about in height. One spoke French and the other English. The guards also reported that the two spoke with a third, also a Francophone, whom they never were able to see.\n\nInvestigators were immediately struck by the similarity to another recent art theft in the Montreal area. On August 30, another group of three thieves had broken into the summer home of Agnes Meldrum, wife of a Montreal moving-company owner, in Oka, roughly 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of the city. They had all climbed up a 200-metre (600-foot) cliff from a powerboat on Lake of Two Mountains to do so. Witnesses said that while they wore hoods to prevent identification, two spoke French and the other, English. Once inside the home they stole paintings worth $50,000 in total.\n\nThe presence of two Francophones and one Anglophone, plus the climbing skills involved, led the chief investigator on the case to believe the thieves involved in both incidents had been local, and possibly the same. That, and their apparent knowledge of the skylight's non-functional alarm, had at first fostered a theory that someone on the inside at the museum had aided the thieves in some way. This is a common phenomenon when museums are robbed; two New York City detectives who specialized in art crime said as much when commenting about the Montreal case later in 1972.\n\nHowever, the Montreal police considered that speculation too broad to be helpful in focusing their investigation, and evidence did not bear it out. While it was possible that the thieves had indeed actively involved someone working on the skylight, it was as possible that they, or others involved with them, had learned of the security flaw through an overheard remark somewhere. An intense investigation of the workers involved with the skylight did not find any evidence they had passed information about it to anyone criminally inclined.\n\nIt was also seen as possible that the robbers had learned of the skylight flaw by simply reconnoitering their target. Roughly two weeks before the theft, someone reported encountering two men sitting on chairs on the roof, wearing sunglasses and smoking. When asked by the person who reported the incident, they claimed to be museum employees. But when investigators looked for the chairs on the roof after the theft, they could not be found. Likewise, no fingerprints or other evidence was left on either the ladder or nylon rope.\n\nTheories of an inside job were also undermined by the thieves' poorly planned exit. After abandoning their improvised plan to leave by the same skylight when they realized it would take too long to set up a system of pulleys, they instead chose to try to flee in one of the museum's trucks. If they had based that alternative on inside information they had obtained, they would have known how to disable the alarm they set off on the side entrance before opening it. And even if they had not chosen to do so, they would have known it did not sound anywhere else besides the museum—and thus not have abandoned half of what they had stolen to escape on foot.\n\nWhile the jewellery and figurines seem to have been chosen only because they could be easily carried, the paintings stolen seem to have been a matter of choice. Their small size, in addition to making them easy to carry and conceal, would also facilitate quick sales. The robbers, and any dealer working with them, might, investigators have speculated, have been looking to sell to private collectors who display their paintings in their homes. Indeed, the pairs of small paintings with similar subject matter by the same artist—Brueghel, Corot, Millet and Vincent—would be excellent choices to decorate a room.\n\nInterest in art in recent years had driven up prices, a phenomenon which had been widely reported in both French- and English-language media, and the thieves would have known even if they had no interest in art what collectors were willing to pay large sums for. Some art dealers in the Montreal area refused to discuss their business with police absent a legal order such as a subpoena or warrant. Around Christmas 1972, a \"Montreal Gazette\" columnist reported that, in fact, most of the paintings had been delivered to the homes of wealthy collectors in Mount Royal, with a small portion diverted to the U.S. This led police to interrogate two unnamed individuals, but no new leads developed as a result.\n\nThe robbers might not even have had to visit the museum to decide what works to take. Half of those they did keep when they ran away had been in \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a travelling exhibition that had been to several cities in the U.S. during the year before Expo 67. The Rembrandt had been included in a 1969 exhibit to commemorate the tricentennial of the artist's death, and the following year many of the French paintings had been in another exhibit that the press in that language gave great attention to.\n\nAll those works in the special exhibitions would have been depicted in handbooks or catalogues produced in association with them. Only the Brueghels, the Rubens and the Vincent portraits had not been included in those exhibits nor mentioned in any publication save the museum's own catalogue.\n\nEarly in their investigation, the police began looking into a group of students at the nearby École des beaux-arts de Montréal. Mostly French-speaking, they had often visited the museum but had frequently been asked to leave before its official closing time so that the mostly English-speaking staff could take their tea. This had engendered considerable resentment on the students' part.\n\nPolice kept five of these students under 24-hour surveillance for two weeks. Eventually they decided they could not find any evidence, and dropped that part of the investigation. Alain Lacoursière, an art-theft specialist with the Montreal police who investigated the cold case in later years, by his own account taking it over just before the files were slated to be shredded in 1984, believes the students were not involved. \"This crime was organized with a guy in charge who was 35 to 40 years old,\" well past his student years, he said in 2010.\n\nIn many art thefts the thieves seek ransom payments in return for the stolen works, and this happened twice in the MMFA thefts. Within a week of the robbery museum director David Giles Carter received a phone call from, he believed, one of the thieves. A man with a gravelly voice and an accent Carter described as \"European\" gave him directions to a phone booth near McGill University, near which one of the stolen pendants was found.\n\nSoon afterwards, a brown manila Port of Montreal envelope arrived at the museum with snapshots of the stolen paintings. Carter nicknamed the thief \"Port of Montreal\" as a result, and dialogue was opened up between the museum and the thieves to negotiate a ransom. At first the thieves demanded $500,000, about a quarter of the works' stated value; later they halved that.\n\nCarter demanded the thieves, or whoever it was negotiating on their behalf, give more proof they had the paintings than snapshots. In response, they told the museum's security director to go to a locker in Montreal Central Station. Inside, he found the Brueghel \"Landscape with Buildings and Wagon\". It is the only one of the stolen paintings that has so far been recovered.\n\nAs a result of these negotiations, approximately a month later the museum's insurance companies and the Montreal police set up a sting operation. An undercover detective posed as an insurance adjustor and agreed to meet the thieves or their representative in an empty field in one of the city's suburbs, where he hoped the thieves would believe he was ready to hand over $5,000 for another one of the paintings. However, when one of the local police cruisers passed by, completely unaware of the plans, the thieves apparently came to realize what was actually going on and never met the undercover officer. The next day they called Carter and complained that they had been set up.\n\nLacoursière believes that it was actually the museum and the police who were being set up. The field the robbers had chosen as the meeting site had few nearby houses at the time and could easily have been monitored from some distance away, allowing the robbers to detect even the more subtle police presence necessary to support a sting operation. \"It was all a smokescreen\", he says. Since the thieves never reopened negotiations afterwards, he believes they never had any intention of returning the paintings at the time and were using the purported ransom negotiations as a diversion while they bought themselves more time to sell or otherwise dispose of the paintings.\n\nThe second attempt took place the following year. A few months after the museum closed for its three-year renovation project in May 1973, a caller to a member of the museum's board said he would share where the paintings were hidden for $10,000. André DeQuoy, one of the adjusters handling the case, was involved in the discussion and made it clear that while the insurance companies would pay for information leading to the discovery of the painting, they would not pay for the paintings themselves. After he agreed to deliver it personally to the source, the board made the money available.\n\nThe caller had instructed DeQuoy, who was being discreetly followed by police, to go to a certain phone booth in downtown Montreal one afternoon. From there the caller sent him to other phone booths elsewhere in the city, such as the Blue Bonnets race track, on St. Laurent Boulevard and at the Henri-Bourassa station on the Montreal Metro. The caller then informed DeQuoy that he had picked up the police tail and DeQuoy was to return to his office and await further instructions while the caller had the unmarked car called off.\n\nDeQuoy did, and an hour later the caller said the police had been taken care of. Again he was sent out to phone booths, ultimately traveling back and forth across the island of Montreal to 11 of them, until at 4 a.m. the next morning he was told he could leave the envelope at the base of a sign in a vacant lot on St. Martin Boulevard, then return to the Henri-Bourassa phone booth where the caller would contact him again with the location of the paintings.\n\nWhile DeQuoy waited for the call, he let the police know where he had been all night. But the caller never called, so the adjustor returned to his office. At 8 a.m. the caller called him there and told him the paintings were in a motel in Laval, north of Montreal. An intensive search of the building, however, produced neither the paintings nor any sign they had ever been there. The $10,000 was not recovered.\n\nDue to the minimal news coverage, in January 1973 Bill Bantey put together a circular, \"Attention: Stolen\", depicting the stolen paintings and giving information such as their dimensions, in English and French. The idea was to distribute it widely throughout the international art community and familiarize possible buyers with the stolen works, a practice that was not common in art thefts at the time as most museums preferred to keep the news of their victimization to themselves. Major auction houses like Sotheby's and Christie's would not routinely check for whether art offered for sale through them was on lists of stolen works until 1985. \"[We hope that] the works become so catalogued and so well-known that it would be unlikely that any collector or museum buyer could innocently purchase them,\" Bantey told the \"Gazette\".\n\nThe museum and investigators did not make the ransom negotiations in the year after the thefts public knowledge until ten years later. \"For years we thought our chances of recovery were better keeping everything quiet,\" said one police detective, explaining the decision. \"But now our hopes are small. Maybe this will stimulate interest and produce something.\" But while it did allow police to confirm what they have only described as \"certain facts\", those have apparently not led to any progress in the case.\n\nThe recovered Brueghel was kept in storage at the museum by Ruth Jackson for ten years until a new frame could be purchased, after which it was returned to the place it had been exhibited prior to the theft. However, it was later determined that it was not by Brueghel but one of his students; Lacoursière believes the thieves may have chosen to return it due to doubts about its authenticity. It nevertheless remains on exhibit.\n\nA similar fate befell the painting the museum bought with the money it received from its insurers. A group of 20 of them paid out nearly $2 million to settle the claim; they in turn posted a $50,000 reward for the return of the paintings, which under the terms of the insurance policies they legally owned as a result of paying the theft claim. The museum used the money to purchase a Rubens, \"The Leopards\", which the museum promoted as the largest Rubens exhibited in Canada. But like the Brueghel, it was later reattributed to the painter's assistants, after a conservationist determined that its red pigments were mixed four decades after Rubens' death, reducing its value and interest to museumgoers. On the 35th anniversary of the robbery, in 2007, the museum thus returned it to storage and has never put it on display again.\n\nEven the attribution of some of the stolen work has been called into question. When the de Heems were being prepared for their inclusion in \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a Parisian art historian the museum contacted suggested that they were in fact the work of another Dutch master, Evert Collier. The Rembrandt landscape, while indeed signed and dated by the artist, is one that both he and his students frequently returned to as a subject, and some historians are not entirely confident the painting was his even with the signature. The Gainsborough portrait, too, may in fact be the work of Joshua Reynolds, Gainsborough's rival, since its subject, Thomas Fletcher, is shown wearing a Madras regimental uniform, which he only started wearing in 1771, three years before his portrait was painted by Reynolds.\n\nIn 1992, on the 20th anniversary of the theft, a Radio-Canada story reported that the insurance companies now considered the paintings' value to have appreciated to $20 million. They had consequently increased the reward offer to $100,000. On behalf of the Montreal police, Lacoursière, who began investigating art crime in 1994, offered an additional million in 1999. No one has yet come forward to claim these rewards.\n\nLacoursière has had some promising leads over the years that have yielded nothing. He has been told that the paintings, or some of them, are in Italy, and that two Montreal men in the French city of Nice were possible suspects. One heroin addict he interviewed in Vancouver seemed to have inside information about the robbery, but everything he knew had been previously reported in the media; when he was asked about two details that police have withheld since only the actual robbers would know them, he was unable to do so.\n\nOne lead, however, has not been so easy for Lacoursière to dismiss. In 1998, a dealer he had gotten to know introduced him to a man who has been identified publicly only by the pseudonym \"Smith\". Smith told the detective he, too, had been a student at the École des beaux-arts at the time of the theft, explaining to him the tension between the students and museum staff.\n\nIn the course of their initial conversation, Lacoursière quickly came to believe Smith knew a great deal about the robbery, perhaps more than the police did. Although Smith said he had not been one of the five students kept under surveillance afterward, he told the detective that the rope used by the thieves to enter from the skylight was not gray as had been reported at the time, but yellow like the ones used at the school building. However, upon reviewing the original file and talking with one of the original investigators, Lacoursière found that any information on the colour of the rope had been deliberately withheld by police in order to confirm any later confessions or statements by possible suspects. He considered Smith's statements \"highly suspicious\".\n\nLacoursière investigated Smith's background, and found that a year after finishing his five-year course at the school, Smith had spent a quarter of a million dollars to buy himself a house and a local woodworking company. Lacoursière could not determine how Smith might have acquired that amount of money at such a relatively young age. He implied in 2010 it might have been from selling the stolen work.\n\nAccording to Lacoursière, Smith even told him that he would at some point in the future tell him something about the robbery. In 2007, during the filming of \"L'Colombe d'art\" (\"The Colombo of Art\"), a Radio-Canada special on his career as an art-theft detective, Lacoursière visited Smith and offered him the million-dollar cheque on camera. Smith, however, simply laughed, and invited the camera crew into his house so they could see for themselves that he had none of the stolen paintings.\n\nIn 2010, Quebec journalist Sylvain Larocque interviewed Smith by telephone. While he again denied any role in the theft himself, he claimed that professors and porters at the Université du Québec à Montréal, which the École des beaux-arts had been merged into in 1969, were behind the robbery. They were possibly, he claimed, the same people behind a robbery at the university a few weeks earlier.\n\nThe following year Lacoursière received a link to a video in email from Smith, possibly intended to tease the detective, who by then had retired. It was a Mercedes-Benz advertisement from Hong Kong in which bank robbers steal a briefcase from a bank vault, then escape in a Mercedes. They elude capture but leave the briefcase behind; inside is a long-lost stolen Da Vinci painting.\n\nThe robbery is now largely forgotten, except by the insurance companies and police, who continue to search. \"Like a death in the family, you have to let it drop,\" Bantey says. However, in 2009, Paul Lavallée, the museum's director at the time, said it continues to affect the museum, since it might not be able to reclaim the works even if they were recovered. \"[W]e would be strapped for funds,\" he said, even if the insurer offered them to the museum at a discount.\n\nIt is possible the paintings may have been destroyed to prevent them from being used as evidence against those in possession of them. But Lacoursière believes they were likely sold through smaller dealers who may not have known they were stolen, or cared if they did, to collectors who likewise keep them private, especially today, since they cannot sell them. He also notes that criminal organizations have found stolen art useful in other ways. During the 1994–2002 Quebec Biker war, he recalls, he learned that one member of the Montreal-area Hell's Angels served as a fence for art thieves, selling stolen art to the Italian Mafia at 10 percent of its price, who in turn used the names of dead residents of the affluent suburb of Westmount on faked provenance forms.\n\nWhile it is not believed likely that the original robbers were affiliated with organized crime, the ransom attempts may point in that direction. The Port of Montreal envelope in which the snapshots of the stolen art was sent may suggest the involvement of the West End Gang, an Irish-dominated group that is one of Canada's oldest and strongest criminal organizations, which has historically been based in the city's port. Bantey, however, doubts this based on his familiarity with the city's criminal element from his journalism days. \"[They] were interested in prostitution and drugs\" exclusively at the time, he says, and no one involved would have had the expertise required to pull off the robbery. Nor does he believe the thieves were motivated by separatism or any other political cause, just a desire to enrich themselves.\n\nDespite some suggestions the paintings, assuming they still exist, are still in Montreal, or elsewhere in Canada or the U.S. or Europe, the investigators who will discuss this believe the art has been moved to Latin America. Lacoursière notes that many of the West End Gang often spend their winters in, and retire to, Costa Rica. Police there have not responded to requests for assistance from their counterparts in Montreal. Bantey believes the paintings are in South America somewhere. \"I've heard several people I respect say that.\"\n\nThe police files on the robbery remain closed to public inspection as the case is still considered open.\n\n"}
{"id": "41029852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41029852", "title": "2014 in public domain", "text": "2014 in public domain\n\nThis is a list of works that enter the public domain in part of the world in 2014 in the following Post mortem auctoris countries and regions.\n\nA work enters the public domain in most European countries (with the exception of Belarus) 70 years after the creator's death, if it was published during the author's lifetime.\n\nThe section of \"Stephen Hero\" (James Joyce) added in 1963 will enter the UK public domain.\n\n\nAccording to the Logos Foundation, works by these composers published during their lifetimes are in the public domain.\n\n\n\n\nThe Copyright Term Extension Act means no published works will enter the public domain in this jurisdiction until 2019. Unpublished works by authors who died in 1943 entered the public domain on January 1, 2014.\n\nIn countries where works enter the public domain 50 years after the death of the creator (such as Canada) the following authors' works will be in the public domain in 2014.\n\nIn countries where works enter the public domain 20 years after the death of the creator (such as Libya) the following authors' works will be in the public domain in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1949692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949692", "title": "Accessory (legal term)", "text": "Accessory (legal term)\n\nAn accessory is a person who assists in the commission of a crime, but who does not actually participate in the commission of the crime as a joint principal. The distinction between an accessory and a principal is a question of fact and degree:\n\nIn some jurisdictions, an accessory is distinguished from an accomplice, who normally is present at the crime and participates in some way. An accessory must generally have knowledge that a crime is being committed, will be committed, or has been committed. A person with such knowledge may become an accessory by helping or encouraging the criminal in some way. The assistance to the criminal may be of any type, including emotional or financial assistance as well as physical assistance or concealment.\n\nThe punishment tariff for accessories varies in different jurisdictions, and has varied at different periods of history. In some times and places accessories have been subject to lesser penalties than \"principals\" (the persons who actually commit the crime). In others accessories are considered the same as principals in theory, although in a particular case an accessory may be treated less severely than a principal. In some times and places accessories before the fact (i.e., with knowledge of the crime before it is committed) have been treated differently from accessories after the fact (e.g., those who aid a principal after a crime has been committed, but had no role in the crime itself). Common law traditionally considers an accessory just as guilty as the principal(s) in a crime, and subject to the same penalties. Separate and lesser punishments exist by statute in many jurisdictions.\n\nIn some situations, a charge of conspiracy can be made even if the primary offense is never committed, so long as the plan has been made, and at least one \"overt act\" towards the crime has been committed by at least one of the conspirators. For example, if a group plans on forging bank checks, and forges the checks but ultimately does not attempt to cash the checks, the group might still be charged with conspiracy due to the overt act of forgery. Thus, an accessory before the fact will often, but not always, also be considered a conspirator. A conspirator must have been a party to the planning of the crime, rather than merely becoming aware of the plan to commit it and then helping in some way.\n\nA person who incites another to a crime will become a part of a conspiracy if agreement is reached, and may then be considered an accessory or a joint principal if the crime is eventually committed. \n\nIn the United States, a person who learns of the crime and gives some form of assistance before the crime is committed is known as an \"accessory before the fact\". A person who learns of the crime after it is committed and helps the criminal to conceal it, or aids the criminal in escaping, or simply fails to report the crime, is known as an \"accessory after the fact\". A person who does both is sometimes referred to as an \"accessory before and after the fact\", but this usage is less common.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, criminal \"facilitation\" laws do not require that the primary crime be actually committed as a prerequisite for criminal liability. These include state statutes making it a crime to \"provide\" a person with \"means or opportunity\" to commit a crime, \"believing it probable that he is rendering aid to a person who intends to commit a crime.\"\n\nTo be convicted of an accessory charge, the accused must generally be proved to have had actual knowledge that a crime was going to be, or had been, committed. Furthermore, there must be proof that the accessory knew that his or her action, or inaction, was helping the criminals commit the crime, or evade detection, or escape. A person who unknowingly houses a person who has just committed a crime, for instance, may not be charged with an accessory offense because they did not have knowledge of the crime.\n\nIn many jurisdictions a person may not be charged as an accessory to a crime committed by his or her spouse. This is related to the traditional privilege not to testify against an accused spouse, and the older idea that a wife was completely subject to the orders of a husband, whether lawful or illegal.\n\nIn most jurisdictions an accessory cannot be tried before the principal is convicted, unless the accessory and principal are tried together, or unless the accessory consents to being tried first.\n\nThe term \"accessory\" derives from the English common law, and been inherited by those countries with a more or less Anglo-American legal system. The concept of complicity is, of course, common across different legal traditions. The specific terms \"accessory-before-the-fact\" and \"accessory-after-the-fact\" were used in England and the United States but are now more common in historical than in current usage.\n\nThe spelling accessary is occasionally used, but only in this legal sense.\n\nThe English legal authority William Blackstone, in his \"Commentaries\", defined an accessory as:\n\nHe goes on to define an \"accessory-before-the-fact\" in these words:\n\nand an \"accessory-after-the-fact\" as follows:\nThe \"Criminal Code\" has several sections which deal with accessory to offences:\n\nFor these purposes, \"abetting\" means \"to encourage or set on\" and an \"abettor\" is \"an instigator or setter on, one who promotes or procures a crime to be committed...\"\n\nNote that under s. 21(2), the words \"ought to have known\" indicating objective knowledge have been ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Canada in cases where the principal offence requires subjective foresight of the consequences, such as murder (\"R v Logan\", [1990] 2 SCR 731).\n\nArticle 121-6 states that \"the accomplice to the offence, in the meaning of article 121-7, is punishable as a perpetrator\". Article 121-7 distinguishes, in its two paragraphs, complicity by aiding or abetting and complicity by instigation. It thus states that:\nEach penal provision in the Norwegian criminal code specifies if it is criminal to aid and abet. Further, when the attempt is criminal, participating in that attempt is criminal.\n\nThe law governing complicity in criminal offences originally arose from the common law, but was codified in section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 (as amended by s.65(4) Criminal Law Act 1977), which states:\nMere presence at the scene of a crime is not enough, even where the defendant remains at the scene to watch the crime being committed. In \"R v Coney\" (1882) 8 QBD 534, where a crowd watched an illegal prize fight, it was held that there must be active, not mere passive, encouragement. Hence, even though the fight would not have taken place without spectators prepared to bet on the outcome, the spectators were acquitted because their presence was accidental. It would have been different if they had attended at the scene of a crime by prior agreement because their mere presence would be an encouragement. Similarly, in \"R v J. F. Alford Transport Ltd\" (1997) 2 Cr. App. R. 326 it was held a reasonable inference that a company, knowing that its employees are acting illegally and deliberately doing nothing to prevent it from being repeated, actually intends to encourage the repetition. This will be a natural inference in any situation where the alleged accessory has the right to control what the principal is doing.\n\nA \"mens rea\" is required even when it is not required for the principal offender (for example, when the principal commits a strict liability offence). The defendant must intend to do the acts which he knows will assist or encourage the principal to commit a crime of a certain type. In \"R v Bainbridge\" (1960) 1 QB 129 the defendant supplied cutting equipment not knowing exactly what crime was going to be committed, but was convicted because the equipment supplied was not used in the ordinary way, but for a criminal purpose instead. The accomplice must also know of all the essential matters that make the act a crime, but need not know that the act would amount to a crime because \"ignorantia juris non excusat\". In \"National Coal Board v Gamble\" (1959) 1 QB 11 the operator of a weighbridge was indifferent as to whether the principal committed the offence which is generally not a sufficient \"mens rea\", but the NCB was convicted because the act of the employee was an act of sale (see vicarious liability).\n\n\"Gillick v West Norfolk and Wisbech Area Health Authority\" (1986) AC 112 is an example of a type of case where the uncertainties of the precise meaning of intention effectively confer a sometimes welcome discretion on whether to impose responsibility. That case concerned the question of whether a doctor giving contraceptive advice or treatment to a girl under the age of 16 could be liable as an accessory to a subsequent offence of unlawful sexual intercourse committed by the girl's sexual partner. The Lords held that generally this would not be the case (the action was a civil one for a declaration) since the doctor would lack the necessary intention (even though he realised that his actions would facilitate the intercourse). One rationale for the decision would be that a jury would not infer intention in such circumstances if they thought that the doctor was acting in what he considered to be the girl's best interests.\n\nIn Scotland, under section 293 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, a person may be convicted of, and punished for, a contravention of any enactment, notwithstanding that he was guilty of such contravention as art and part only.\n\nU.S. jurisdictions (that is, the federal government and the various state governments) have come to treat accessories before the fact differently from accessories after the fact. All U.S. jurisdictions have effectively eliminated the distinction between accessories before the fact and principals, either by doing away with the category of \"accessory before the fact\" entirely or by providing that accessories before the fact are guilty of the same offense as principals. The Model Penal Code's definition of accomplice liability includes those who at common law were called accessories before the fact; under the Model Penal Code, accomplices face the same liability as principals. It is now possible to be convicted as an accessory before the fact even though the principal has not been convicted or (in most jurisdictions) even if the principal was acquitted at an earlier trial.\n\nHowever, modern U.S. jurisdictions punish accessories after the fact for a separate criminal offense distinct from the underlying crime and having a different (and less severe) punishment. Some states still use the term \"accessory after the fact\"; others no longer use the term, but have comparable laws against hindering apprehension or prosecution, obstruction of justice, tampering with evidence, harboring a felon, or the like. Such crimes usually require proving (1) an intent to hinder apprehension or prosecution and (2) actual aid in the form of either (a) harboring the criminal, (b) providing specified means (such as a disguise) to evade arrest, (c) tampering with evidence, (d) warning the criminal of impending arrest, or (e) using force or deception to prevent the arrest.\n\nFederal law has followed both these trends. The U.S. Code effectively treats as principals those who would traditionally have been considered accessories before the fact at common law:\nHowever, federal law treats accessories after the fact differently from principals. Accessories after the fact face a maximum of only half the fine and half the prison time that principals face. (If the principal faces the death penalty or life imprisonment, accessories after the fact face up to 15 years' imprisonment.) Federal law defines accessories after the fact as persons who provide criminals with certain aid in order to hinder a criminal's apprehension or prosecution:\n\n"}
{"id": "387462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387462", "title": "Alternative DNS root", "text": "Alternative DNS root\n\nThe Internet uses the Domain Name System (DNS) to associate numeric computer IP addresses with human readable names. The top level of the domain name hierarchy, the DNS root, contains the top-level domains that appear as the suffixes of all Internet domain names. The most widely used (and first) DNS root is administered by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). In addition, several organizations operate alternative DNS roots, often referred to as alt roots. These alternative domain name systems operate their own root nameservers and commonly administer their own specific name spaces consisting of custom top-level domains.\n\nThe Internet Architecture Board (IAB) has spoken out strongly against alternate roots in .\n\nThe DNS root zone consists of pointers to the authoritative domain name servers for all TLDs (top-level domains). The root zone is hosted on a collection of root servers operated by several organizations around the world that all use a specific, approved list of domains that is managed by ICANN. By contrast, alternative roots typically include pointers to all of the TLD servers for domains delegated by ICANN, as well as name servers for other, custom top-level domains that are not sanctioned by ICANN. Some alternate roots are operated by the organizations that manage these alternative TLDs.\n\nZach Bastick proposes that alternative DNS roots have allowed for more democratic control of the Internet:\n\n\"The implementation of alternative gTLDs predates any significant debate on name space extension by official actors, and this exemplifies how democratising the DNS alters the pace of developing Internet policy, the nature of decisions that justify that policy development, and political dynamics and user autonomy in the network infrastructure.\" (p.103)Unless one specifically changes their DNS resolution settings, alternative DNS top level domains are generally unreachable, and very few Internet service providers provide this configuration by default.\n\nSome organizations provide alternate DNS root services, such as additional Top Level Domains.\n\n\"Emercoin\" provides the top level domains .coin, .emc, .lib, and .bazar via a blockchain-based DNS resolution service. Resolution is also provided by OpenNIC.\n\n\"Namecoin\" supports the alternative top-level domain .bit. The alternative domain .bit is resolved by any computer running a namecoin full node and bridging software such as, nmcontrol, ncdns, and the freespeechme browser plugin. \nA centralized server which bridges DNS and Namecoin can also be used, meaning that users who use the centralized server do not benefit from Namecoin's decentralized and secure nature. Alternatively, its resolution is also provided by OpenNIC.\n\n\"New Nations\" provides domains to nation-states or regional efforts that are not listed in the ISO 3166-1 standard and therefore do not have a ccTLD delegated to them. Examples are .ko (\"Kosovo\"), .ku (\"Kurdish people\"), .te (\"Tamil Eelam\"), .ti (\"Tibet\"), and .uu (\"Uyghur people\"). Domain name resolution is provided by a peering agreement with OpenNIC or New Nations' own DNS servers.\n\nOpen Root Server Network (ORSN) is a network of Domain Name System root nameservers for the Internet. ORSN root zone information is normally kept in synchronization with the \"official\" root nameservers coordinated by ICANN. ORSN Public DNS Servers are operated by the community of ORSN, providing Domain Name System access freely for everyone, without any limitation. ORSN public DNS servers respect privacy and do not log usage. \n\nOpenNIC is a user owned and controlled alternative to InterNIC and ICANN providing a non-national democratic alternative to traditional domain registries. OpenNIC servers are able to resolve all ICANN top-level domains, some OpenNIC original top-level domains, and the resolution of other Alternate DNS Roots with which they have reached peering agreements.\n\neDNS (Enhanced Domain Name Service) was founded by a coalition of ISPs led by Karl Denninger of the Chicago-area MCSNet. It ceased operation in 1998. It served the following domains: biz (general business use), corp (corporations), fam (for and about family), k12 (for and about children), npo (non-profit organizations), per (personal domains), web (web-based sites, Web pages).\n\nOne of the notable challengers to ICANN's control of the DNS namespace was \"Open RSC\" (\"Open Root Server Confederation\"), a group that grew out of private discussions and developed into a public mailing list. It grew large enough that the group decided to submit an application to the United States government to run the DNS.\n\nThe organization posted bylaws and articles of incorporation outlining ORSC's position following extensive public discussion regarding the manner in which the DNS was operated.\n\nICANN chairwoman Esther Dyson acknowledged adopting features such as membership from ORSC in her response to the United States Department of Commerce.\n\nORSC publishes a root zone containing additional top level domains not found in the ICANN root zone.\n\nMicrosoft offered the RealNames service on its Internet Explorer browser address bar. RealNames, to users of Internet Explorer, was in effect a domain registry. RealNames shut down operations in 2002 following a decision by Microsoft to redirect the 1 billion page views per calendar quarter that RealNames was resolving from the browser address bar into its MSN search engine.\n\n"}
{"id": "26994597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26994597", "title": "Alvin Bronstein", "text": "Alvin Bronstein\n\nAlvin J. Bronstein (June 8, 1928 – October 24, 2015) was an American lawyer, and founder and Director Emeritus of the National Prison Project of the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation. According to his ACLU biography, 'he has argued numerous prisoners’ rights cases in federal trial and appellate\ncourts as well as the Supreme Court of the United States. He was a consultant to state and federal correctional agencies, appeared as an expert witness on numerous occasions and has edited or authored books and articles on human rights and corrections.'\n\nBronstein's Ukrainian-Polish Jewish family had moved to the United States to seek refuge from the pogroms. He was born in Brooklyn to Louis and Lillian (née Spielman) Bronstein, who both worked in sales. Bronstein attended Erasmus Hall High School, then the City College of New York before graduating from New York Law School with an LL.B.\n\nHe began his career working in the American South during the Civil Rights Movement, becoming the Chief Staff Counsel of the Lawyers’ Constitutional Defense Committee from 1964 to 1968 in Jackson, Mississippi. He litigated civil rights cases during that time in Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana, and represented the major civil rights organizations in the South. He was a Fellow at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, from 1969 to 1971. He was Pace Law School’s Practitioner-in-Residence in 2009.\nHe served as the director of the National Prison Project from 1972 until 1995. During this time, he argued three cases in the United States Supreme Court, Hudson v. McMillan (1992), Block v. Rutherford (1984) (), and Montanye v. Haynes (1976) (). After his departure from the National Prison Project, he has been a consultant for the ACLU. He also served as a board member of Penal Reform International (London) and a member of the Assembly of Delegates for the World Organization Against Torture (Geneva). \n\nHe had three children from his first marriage to Kate Ransohoff- Lisa Snitzer of Philadelphia, Susie Renner of Piedmont, Calif., and Laura Zatta of Lowell, Mass.; a daughter from his second marriage to Julie Bronstein- Sarah Bronstein of Berkeley, Calif. He is survived by his wife of 33 years, Jan Elvin. Their son, Benjamin Bronstein, lives in the District of Columbia. Bronstein also had seven grandchildren- Ian, Zoe, Sasha, Daniel, Ava, Corinna, and Sadie.\n\nBronstein died of Alzheimer's disease on October 24, 2015, in Centreville, Maryland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50043063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50043063", "title": "Animal Defenders International v United Kingdom", "text": "Animal Defenders International v United Kingdom\n\nAnimal Defenders International v United Kingdom [2013] ECHR 362 is a UK and European and international human rights case on political spending at elections. It held that the United Kingdom's ban on spending money on political advertising, under the Communications Act 2003 section 321(2), was fully compatible with freedom of expression under the ECHR article 10.\n\nWhile reflecting most of the election laws in the democratic world, the case stands in heavy contrast to \"Buckley v Valeo\" and \"Citizens United v FEC\", as decided by majorities of the US Supreme Court as well as \"Australian Capital Television v Commonwealth\" as decided by the majority of the High Court of Australia.\n\nThe UK's Communications Act 2003 section 321(2) bans political and industrial dispute related adverts. Animal Defenders International had an advertisement, not offensive, which was themed 'My Mate's a Primate'. The Broadcasting Advertising Clearance Centre refused to let it show because it was deemed to fall within the prohibition on political advertising. They said this breached their ECHR article 10 right to freedom of expression.\n\nThe House of Lords held unanimously that there was no breach of ECHR article 10, because the Communications Act 2003 was designed to level the playing field of expression, and therefore empower everyone's freedom of expression to the utmost.\n\nGiving the leading judgment, Lord Bingham said the only issue (not interference, not legitimate aim pursued) was whether the restriction was 'necessary in a democratic society'. If views are debated then truth prevails over time, and the law was to ensure equality of debate. If parties can buy coverage proportionate to their resources, this would distort. The case of \"VgT Verein gegen Tierfabriken v Switzerland\" was considered, but found to be inapplicable to the British context, where the full strength of arguments against money in politics was considered.\n\nLord Scott, while concurring with the result, dissented on one point at paragraph 44, by suggesting that ECHR cases were not actually binding on the UK courts.\n\nBaroness Hale gave a concurring judgment.\n\nLord Carswell and Lord Neuberger concurred with Lord Bingham.\n\nBy a bare majority (9:8), the European Court of Human Rights held the ban on political advertising under the Communications Act 2003 section 321(2) was fully compatible with ECHR article 10. The majority reasoned as follows.\n\nIn various dissents, a minority of the court, while stressing that money should never buy elections, objected to a total ban on spending.\n\n"}
{"id": "2770118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2770118", "title": "Articled clerk", "text": "Articled clerk\n\nAn articled clerk is someone who is studying to either be an accountant or a lawyer. In doing so they are put under the supervision of someone already in the profession, usually for two years. This can be compared as being an intern for a company; the only difference is once the two years is over the trainee becomes the trainer. Trainees are obligated to sign a contract agreeing to the terms of being an articled clerk. The articled clerk signs a contract, known as \"articles of clerkship\", committing to a fixed period of employment. \"Wharton's Law Lexicon\" defines an articled clerk as \"a pupil of a solicitor, who undertakes, by articles of clerkship, continuing covenants, mutually binding, to instruct him in the principles and practice of the profession\". The contract is with a specific partner in the firm and not with the firm as a whole.\n\nApprentice architects can also be articled. Henry Percy Adams articled to Britwen Binyon (1846–1909), architect.\n\nIn India, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India undergo an articleship programme for a period of 3/3.5 years as the case may be, CA Students after clearing CA-IPCC/Intermediate/Inter Group 1 or Both Group are required to registered himself with a partner of a CA Firm duly registered with the Institute. Those Students during the period of articleship are also known as Articled Clerk.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, student members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka are required to serve as a clerk serving under articles with a member of the Institute in practice or with a member of the Institute who is a salaried employee in the service of a firm of accountants for a minimum three-year practical training period. They are known as Articled clerks during this period.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2001129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001129", "title": "Best evidence rule", "text": "Best evidence rule\n\nThe best evidence rule is a legal principle that holds an original copy of a document as superior evidence. The rule specifies that secondary evidence, such as a copy or facsimile, will be not admissible if an original document exists and can be obtained. The rule has its roots in 18th-century British law.\n\nThe best evidence rule has its origins in the 18th century case \"Omychund v Barker\" (1745) 1 Atk, 21, 49; 26 ER 15, 33. Wherein Lord Harwicke stated that no evidence was admissible unless it was \"the best that the nature of the case will allow\". \n\nAccording to Blackstone's Criminal Practice the best evidence rule in England and Wales as used in earlier centuries \"is now all but defunct\". Lord Denning MR says that \"nowadays we do not confine ourselves to the best evidence. We admit all relevant evidence. The goodness or badness of it goes only to weight and not to admissibility.\"\n\nIn the United States Federal courts the best evidence rule is part of Article X of the Federal Rules of Evidence (Rules 1001-1008). The rule specifies the guidelines under which one of the parties of a court case may request that it be allowed to submit into evidence a copy of the contents of a document, recording or photograph at a trial when the \"original document is not available.\" If the party is able to provide an acceptable reason for the absence of the original then \"secondary evidence\" or copies of the content in the original document can be admitted as evidence. The best evidence rule is only applied in situations in which a party attempts to substantiate a non-original document submitted as evidence during a trial. Admissibility of documents before state court systems may vary. \n\n"}
{"id": "40274874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40274874", "title": "British Court for Japan", "text": "British Court for Japan\n\nThe British Court for Japan (formally Her Britannic Majesty's Court for Japan) was a court established in Yokohama in 1879 to try cases against British subjects in Japan, under the principles of extraterritoriality. The court also heard appeals from British consular courts in Japan. Appeals from the British Court for Japan lay to the British Supreme Court for China and Japan based in the Shanghai International Settlement.\n\nBritain acquired extraterritorial rights in Japan under the Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Amity and Commerce of 1858. British Consular officials sat as judges consular courts in all treaty ports in Japan. Until 1865 appeals from decisions of consular officials were made to the Supreme Court of Hong Kong. From 1865 appeals from decisions could be made to the British Supreme Court for China and Japan in Shanghai. Judges of the Shanghai Supreme Court were also empowered to travel to Japan to try cases on circuit.\n\nIn 1871, an attempt was made to establish a branch of the Shanghai Supreme Court in Yokohama by having an acting assistant judge from Shanghai, Nicholas John Hannen, based in Yokohama. Hannen ruled this arrangement to be invalid in 1872. Judges from Shanghai remained in Yokohama but sat as a judge of the Kanagawa Consular Court. In 1877 and 1878 the legality of these arrangements were challenged by the Japanese Government when the acting law secretary, Hiram Shaw Wilkinson, ruled that the import of medicinal opium into Japan was legal. The British Government determined to establish a formal court in Japan.\n\nOn 1 January 1879 the British Court for Japan was created in Yokohama. The court had had first instance jurisdiction in Kanagawa and appellate jurisdiction from other consular courts in Japan. Appeals from the Court for Japan lay to Supreme Court in Shanghai.\n\nIn Yokohama, the Court for Japan sat in the British Consulate building in Yokohama. The building was destroyed in the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake. In other cities, when the Judge of the court went on circuit to outlying cities he would generally sit in courts in British consulate buildings but on occasions where important cases of great public interest were being heard would use other premises.\n\nUnder the terms of the Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation signed in 1894, Britain gave up extraterritorial rights in Japan with effect from July 1899. The Court for Japan officially heard its last case, which had been filed before the end of July 1899, in early 1900.\n\nThe court tried cases of all descriptions, all the time applying the laws of England in Japan, including murder trials before juries, divorce cases, commercial disputes and cases of petty theft.\n\nFamous cases were:\n\n\nBetween 1879 and 1900 the court had 4 full-time judges. The judges were:\n\n\nFrom 1871 to 1877 two judges from Shanghai were based in Yokohama.\n\n\nBetween 1865 and 1872, Sir Edmund Grimani Hornby, the Chief Judge of the British Supreme Court for China and Japan also heard cases in Japan when traveling on circuit.\n\nA number of consular officials also sat as acting Judge of the Court for Japan when the Judge was on leave or otherwise unavailable. These included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2901287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2901287", "title": "Canon Episcopi", "text": "Canon Episcopi\n\nThe title canon \"Episcopi\" (also \"capitulum Episcopi\") is conventionally given to a certain passage found in medieval canon law. \nThe text possibly originates in an early 10th-century penitential, recorded by Regino of Prüm; it was included in Gratian's authoritative Corpus juris canonici of c. 1140 (\"Decretum Gratiani\", causa 26, quaestio 5, canon 12) and as such became part of canon law during the High Middle Ages.\n\nIt is an important source on folk belief and surviving pagan customs in Francia on the eve of the formation of the Holy Roman Empire. \nThe folk beliefs described in the text reflect the residue of pre-Christian beliefs at about one century after the Carolingian Empire had been Christianized. Its condemnation of the belief in witchcraft was an important argument used by the opponents of the witch trials during the 16th century, such as Johann Weyer.\n\nThe conventional title \"canon \"Episcopi\"\" is based on the text's incipit, and was current from at least the 17th century.\n\nIt is perhaps first attested in the \"Libri de synodalibus causis et disciplinis ecclesiasticis\" composed by Regino of Prüm around 906. \nIt was included in Burchard of Worms' \"Decretum\" (compiled between 1008 and 1012), an early attempt at collecting all of Canon law\nThe text was adopted in the \"Decretum\" of Ivo of Chartres and eventually in Gratian's authoritative \"Corpus juris canonici\" of c. 1140 (causa 26, quaestio 5, canon 12). Because it was included in Gratian's compilation the text was treated as canon law for the remaining part of the High Middle Ages, until Roman Catholic views on European witchcraft began to change dramatically in the late medieval period.\nThe text of Gratian is not the same as the one used by Burchard, and the distinctive features of the \"Corrector\" text were thus not transmitted to later times.\n\nThe text of Regino of Prüm was edited in Patrologia Latina, volume 132; the \"Decretum\" of Burchard of Worms in volume 140.\nThe text of Burchard's \"Corrector\" has been separately edited by Wasserschleben (1851),\nand again by Schmitz (1898).\n\nThe incipit of Gratian's text, which gave rise to the title of \"canon \"Episcopi\"\" reads:\n\nThis condemnation the \"pernicious art of divination and magic\" (\"magicam\" being changed by Gratian from \"\") is justified by a reference to Titus 3:10-11 on heresy.\nThen follows a description of the errors of \"certain wicked women\" ('), who deceived by Satan believe themselves to join the train of the pagan goddess Diana (to which Burchardus added: ' \"or with Herodias\") during the hours of the night, and to cover great distances within a multitude of women riding on beasts, and during certain nights to be called to the service of their mistress. Those holding such beliefs are then condemned by the text in no uncertain terms (\"that they would only perish in their perfidity without drawing others with them\"), deploring the great number of people who \"relapse into pagan error\" by holding such beliefs. Because of this, the text instructs that all priests should teach at every possible instant that such beliefs are phantasms inspired by an evil spirit.\n\nThe following paragraph presents an account of the means by which Satan takes possession of the minds of these women by appearing to them in numerous forms, and how once he holds captive their minds, deludes them by means of dreams (\").\nThe text emphasizes that the heretic belief is to hold that these transformations occur in the body, while they are in reality dream visions inspired in the mind (\").\nThe text proposes that it is perfectly normal to have nightly visions in which one sees things that are never seen while awake, but that it is a great stupidity to believe that the events experienced in the dream vision have taken place in the body.\nExamples are adduced, of Ezechiel having his prophetic visions in spirit, not in body, of the Apocalypse of John which was seen in spirit, not in body, and of Paul of Tarsus, who describes the events at Damascus as a vision, not as a bodily encounter.\n\nThe text concludes by repeating that it should be publicly preached that all those holding such beliefs have lost their faith, believing not in God but in the devil, and whosoever believes that it is possible to transform themselves into a different kind of creature, is far more wavering (in his faith) than an infidel ('; to which Burchard added: \"and worse than a pagan\", ').\n\nThe Canon Episcopi has received a great deal of attention from historians of the witch craze period as early documentation of the Catholic church's theological position on the question of witchcraft.\n\nThe position taken by the author is that these \"rides of Diana\" did not actually exist, that they are deceptions, dreams or phantasms.\nIt is the belief in the reality of such deceptions which is considered a heresy worthy of excommunication. \nThe position here is that the devil is real, creating delusions in the mind, but that the delusions do not have bodily reality.\nThis skeptical treatment of magic sharply contrasts with the sanction of witch trials by the church in later centuries, beginning with the bull \"Summis desiderantes affectibus\" (1484).\nThe proponents of these trials from were aware of this problem, and the authors of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\", a witch-hunter's manual from 1487 that played a key role in the witch craze, were forced to argue for a reinterpretation of the Canon Episcopi in order to reconcile their beliefs that witchcraft was both real and effective with those expressed in the Canon.\nTheir detractors in the 16th and 17th century also made reference to the canon, e.g. Johann Weyer in his \"De praestigiis daemonum\" (1563).\n\nBurchard of Worms added the New Testament figure Herodias to his copy of the document in one passage, and the Teutonic goddess Holda in another. \nIn the 12th century, Hugues de Saint-Victor quoted the Canon Episcopi as reading \"Diana Minerva\".\nLater collections included the names \"Benzozia\" and \"Bizazia\".\nIn modern times, the text's description of \"witches sabbaths\" dedicated to Diana has given rise to a hypothesis concerning a supposed medieval witch religion, a theory mostly associated with Margaret Murray, and later adopted by Gerald Gardner and his followers. Burchard's mention of Herodias is relevant especially the theories of Charles Godfrey Leland presented in \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\" (1899), and taken up in the \"Stregheria\" of Raven Grimassi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41478759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41478759", "title": "Chavero Codex of Huexotzingo", "text": "Chavero Codex of Huexotzingo\n\nThe Chavero Codex of Huexotzingo of 1578 documents a judicial proceeding against officials who collected excessive taxes in Huexotzingo, located in today's Puebla, Mexico. There are 17 locations in the manuscript, which deals with tribute. These taxes, paid in \"money, maize, and shirts and blankets\" were collected in \"the 21 districts of Huexotzingo between 1571 and 1577.\" Some of the taxes were used to build a church in the San Salvador district. The numbers in the codex from the surveys submitted by officials are recorded in illustrations \"using the Mesoamerican numeric system, with some variations characteristic of the Mexica system.\"\n\nA book on the codex, \"Códice Chavero de Huexotzingo: proceso a sus oficiales de república\", won the 2005 \"Premio INAH Francisco Javier Clavijero.\"\n\nHistorian Alfredo Chavero donated the codex to the National Museum of Mexico in 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "1068780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068780", "title": "Christian existentialism", "text": "Christian existentialism\n\nChristian existentialism is a theo-philosophical movement which takes an existentialist approach to Christian theology. The school of thought is often traced back to the work of the Danish philosopher and theologian Søren Kierkegaard (1813–1855). \n\nThe existential approach to Christian theology has a long and diverse history including Augustine, Aquinas, Pascal and Maritain.\n\nChristian existentialism relies on Kierkegaard's understanding of Christianity. Kierkegaard argued that the universe is fundamentally paradoxical, and that its greatest paradox is the transcendent union of God and humans in the person of Jesus Christ. He also posited having a personal relationship with God that supersedes all prescribed moralities, social structures and communal norms, since he asserted that following social conventions is essentially a personal aesthetic choice made by individuals.\n\nKierkegaard proposed that each person must make independent choices, which then constitute his existence. Each person suffers from the anguish of indecision (whether knowingly or unknowingly) until he commits to a particular choice about the way to live. Kierkegaard also proposed three rubrics with which to understand the conditions that issue from distinct life choices: the aesthetic, the ethical, and the religious.\n\nOne of the major premises of Kierkegaardian Christian existentialism entails calling the masses back to a more genuine form of Christianity. This form is often identified with some notion of Early Christianity, which mostly existed during the first three centuries after Christ's crucifixion. Beginning with the Edict of Milan, which was issued by Roman Emperor Constantine I in AD 313, Christianity enjoyed a level of popularity among Romans and later among other Europeans. And yet Kierkegaard asserted that by the 19th century, the ultimate meaning of New Testament Christianity (love, cf. agape, mercy and loving-kindness) had become perverted, and Christianity had deviated considerably from its original threefold message of grace, humility, and love.\n\nAnother major premise of Kierkegaardian Christian existentialism involves Kierkegaard's conception of God and Love. For the most part, Kierkegaard equates God with Love. Thus, when a person engages in the act of loving, he is in effect achieving an aspect of the divine. Kierkegaard also viewed the individual as a necessary synthesis of both and infinite elements. Therefore, when an individual does not come to a full realization of his infinite side, he is said to be in despair. For many contemporary Christian theologians, the notion of despair can be viewed as sin. However, to Kierkegaard, a man sinned when he was exposed to this idea of despair and chose a path other than one in accordance with God's will.\n\nA final major premise of Kierkegaardian Christian existentialism entails the systematic undoing of evil acts. Kierkegaard asserted that once an action had been completed, it should be evaluated in the face of God, for holding oneself up to divine scrutiny was the only way to judge one's actions. Because actions constitute the manner in which something is deemed good or bad, one must be constantly conscious of the potential consequences of his actions. Kierkegaard believed that the choice for goodness ultimately came down to each individual. Yet Kierkegaard also foresaw the potential limiting of choices for individuals who fell into despair.\n\nChristian Existentialism often refers to what it calls the indirect style of Christ's teachings, which it considers to be a distinctive and important aspect of his ministry. Christ's point, it says, is often left unsaid in any particular parable or saying, to permit each individual to confront the truth on his own. This is particularly evident in (but is certainly not limited to) his parables; for example in the Gospel of Matthew (). \nA good example of indirect communication in the Old Testament is the story of David and Nathan in .\n\nAn existential reading of the Bible demands that the reader recognize that he is an existing subject, studying the words that God communicates to him personally. This is in contrast to looking at a collection of \"truths\" which are outside and unrelated to the reader. Such a reader is not obligated to follow the commandments as if an external agent is forcing them upon him, but as though they are inside him and guiding him internally. This is the task Kierkegaard takes up when he asks: \"Who has the more difficult task: the teacher who lectures on earnest things a meteor's distance from everyday life, or the learner who should put it to use?\" Existentially speaking, the Bible doesn't become an authority in a person's life until he \"permits\" the Bible to be his personal authority.\n\nChristian existentialists include German Protestant theologians Paul Tillich and Rudolph Bultmann, American existential psychologist Rollo May (who introduced much of Tillich's thought to a general American readership), British Anglican theologian John Macquarrie, American theologian Lincoln Swain, American philosopher Clifford Williams, French Catholic philosophers Gabriel Marcel, Emmanuel Mounier, and Pierre Boutang, German philosopher Karl Jaspers, Spanish philosopher Miguel de Unamuno, and Russian philosophers Nikolai Berdyaev and Lev Shestov. Karl Barth added to Kierkegaard's ideas the notion that existential despair leads an individual to an awareness of God's infinite nature. Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky could be placed within the tradition of Christian existentialism.\n\nThe roots of existentialism have been traced back as far as St Augustine. Some of the most striking passages in Pascal's \"Pensées\", including the famous section on the Wager, deal with existentialist themes. Jacques Maritain, in \"Existence and the Existent: An Essay on Christian Existentialism\", finds the core of true existentialism in the thought of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nIt has been claimed that Radical Existential Christians’ faith is based in their sensible and immediate and direct experience of God indwelling in human terms. It is suggested that individuals do not make or create their Christian existence; it does not come as a result of a decision one personally makes. The radical Protestants of the 17th century, for example Quakers may have been in some ways theo-philosophically aligned with radical existential Christianity.\n\n"}
{"id": "54227398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54227398", "title": "Collective work (US)", "text": "Collective work (US)\n\nA collective work in the Copyright law of the United States is a work that contains the works of several authors assembled and published into a collective whole. \nThe owner of the work has the property rights in the collective work, but the authors of the individual works may retain rights in their contributions.\nElectronic reproduction of the whole work is allowed, but electronic reproduction of the individual works on their own, outside the context of the work as a whole, may constitute an infringement of copyright.\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1976, section 101, defines a collective work as \"a work, such as a periodical issue, anthology, or encyclopedia, in which a number of contributions, constituting separate and independent works in themselves, are assembled into a collective whole\". \nIt is protected as long as the \"author\" can show that the selection and organization of the contributions is original, and that these contribution can themselves be protected, as opposed to being mere facts such as statistical data.\nThe act makes a clear distinction between the collective work and the individual contributions, \n\nThe United States Copyright Office says, \nBecause a collective work is a form of compilation, the U.S. Copyright Office will apply the criteria for compilations to determine whether the author’s selection, coordination, and/or arrangement satisfies the originality requirement.\nThus a website will be protected only if the author used creativity or subjective judgement to select and arrange the material.\nOrdinarily, the Office will not examine the preexisting material that appears in a derivative work, a compilation, or a collective work to determine whether that material is protected by copyright or whether it has been used in a lawful manner.\n\nThe first copyright law in the United States, the Copyright Act of 1790, covered maps, charts or books. \nThe printed work was protected for 14 years from registration of its title with the district court, and could be renewed for another 14 years by the author, if still alive.\nIt did not provide for the copyright to be vested initially in an individual or employee who ordered or commissioned a map, chart or book.\nThe work only covered American authors, allowing publishers to flood the market with cheap reprints of British books.\nThe first major revision was the Copyright Act of 1831, which extended the initial term to 28 years with the option to renew for another 14 years, and granted widows and children of deceased authors the right of renewal.\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1909, which became on March 4, 1909, covered books, including composite and cyclopaedic works, directories, gazetteers, and other compilations; periodicals, including newspapers; and other works such as lectures, sermons, musical compositions, works of art and maps.\nCopyright was secured by publication with a notice of copyright.\nThe owner was also required to deposit copies of the work with the copyright office.\nCopyright protection was for 28 years from date of publication, with the option to renew for a further 28 years.\nCopyright could be registered and renewed for a contribution to a periodical or to a cyclopaedic or other composite work.\nSection 6 of the Act specified:\nThe 1909 Act was repealed and superseded by the Copyright Act of 1976, but remains effective for copyrighted works created before the Copyright Act of 1976 went into effect in 1978. \nThe Copyright Act of 1976 created a static seventy-five-year term (dated from the date of publication) for anonymous works, pseudonymous works, and works made for hire. \nThe extension term for works copyrighted before 1978 that had not already entered the public domain was increased from twenty-eight years to forty-seven years, giving a total term of seventy-five years. \nThe Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 amended the 1976 Copyright Act, and affected works copyrighted between January 1, 1964 and December 31, 1977. Renewal registration for these works was made optional, and a second term was automatically secured.\nIn 1998 the Copyright Term Extension Act further extended copyright protection to the duration of the author's life plus seventy years for general copyrights and to ninety-five years from date of publication or 120 years from date of creation, whichever comes first, for works made for hire. \n\nThe 1909 Copyright Act was confused in its discussion of the relationship between copyright in the collective work and that in the individual works.\nUnder the 1909 Act a copyright could only be transferred to another owner in whole, and not in part.\nThus an author could not transfer the rights for their work to be published as part of a collective work without transferring all rights in their work.\n\"Goodis v. United Artists Television, Inc.\", 425 F.2d 397 concerned the rights of the author of the novel \"Dark Passage\", first published as a serial in \"The Saturday Evening Post\".\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held on 9 March 1970 that the doctrine of indivisibility could not wholly deprive an author of his copyright in a case like this.\n\nThe doctrine of indivisibility was expressly eliminated in the Copyright Act of 1976.\nSection 106 of the Act lists the exclusive rights that the copyright owner has in a copyrighted work, which are the rights of reproduction; preparation of derivative works; distribution; public performance; public display; and digital performance in sound recordings.\nEach of these exclusive rights may be divided to any number of recipients, and each may be limited to a specified time or place.\n\nThe compiler, or author of the collection, owns copyright in the expression he or she contributed, which is primarily the selection and arrangement of the separate contributions, but may include such things as a preface, advertisements, etc., that the collective author created.\nThe contributions remain the property of the authors by default, but the property may be passed to the owner of the collective work by a copyright transfer agreement.\nThey may also obtain ownership of the contributions if they are works made for hire.\nThe Copyright Act of 1976 says a work is considered a \"work made for hire\" as either,\n\nIt there is no contract transferring ownership and the contributions are not work for hire, the owner has the right to reproduce, distribute and revise the collective work, but does not have the rights to the individual contributions.\n\nMultiple copies of works for classroom use may be made subject to conditions that include \"not more than one short poem, article, story, essay, or two excerpts may be copied from the same author, not more than three from the same collective work or periodical volume during one class term.\n\nThe websites of daily or weekly magazines or journal such as \"The New York Times\" or \"Time Magazine\" are collective works and qualify for group registration with the Copyright Office.\nElectronic journals that are published one article at a time are not collective works.\nTo defeat the \"innocent infringer\" rule, a collective work website must contain a copyright notice for the work as a whole. \nIt does not need to have a copyright notice for the individual works.\nAdvertisements are not covered by this notice, and require a separate notice to be protected.\nIf a website contains material from the United States government, which is in the public domain, the copyright notice should indicate to readers which parts of the content are public domain and which are not.\nIf the notice does not do so it will be found invalid, and the innocent infringer defense may be used.\n\n\"Metropolitan Regional Information System, Inc. v. American Home Realty Network, Inc.\" [722 F.3d 591] was a United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit case in which a court held that the copyright owner of a collective work such as an automated database was not required by a pre-suit copyright registration requirement to identify names of creators and titles of individual work. Also, clicking yes to the term of use and uploading a photograph, is sufficient to writing component in assignment of right under .\n\nThe Supreme Court case of \"New York Times Co. v. Tasini\" (2001) concerned free-lance journalists who had been paid for their contributions to paper editions of newspapers and magazines, but their contracts had not covered digital rights for reproduction on CD-ROMs or publication on the Internet.\nWhen the articles were distributed in electronic form a few years later, the court ruled that this did not constitute a revision of the work, because the articles could be accessed individually.\nThe court also discussed how the work was presented and visible to the user on the Lexis online periodical database. \nThe databases \"present articles to users clear of the context provided either by the original periodical editions or by any revision of those editions ... without the graphics, formatting, or other articles with which the article was initially published.\n\nIn \"Faulkner v. National Geographic Enterprises Inc.\" (2005), a Court of Appeal ruled that an electronic version of a newspaper was a revision of the collective work if it reproduced the paper version identically, including advertisements and photographs.\nIn the late 1990s National Geographic had begun publishing \"The Complete National Geographic\", a digital compilation of all the past issues of the magazine. \nIt was then sued over copyright of the magazine as a collective work in \"Greenberg v. National Geographic\" and other cases, and temporarily withdrew the availability of the compilation. \nOn June 30, 2008, the Eleventh Circuit held that National Geographic had the right to publish faithful copies of its print magazine electronically.\nThe ruling noted, \nAn online database that contains copyrightable works may be considered a collective work, where the owner of the database has a \"thin\" copyright over the selection and arrangement of the works in the database. The individual works may be covered by separate copyrights.\n\n"}
{"id": "36349827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36349827", "title": "Coloured vote constitutional crisis", "text": "Coloured vote constitutional crisis\n\nThe Coloured vote constitutional crisis, also known as the Coloured vote case, was a constitutional crisis that occurred in the Union of South Africa during the 1950s as the result of an attempt by the Nationalist government to remove Coloured voters in the Union's Cape Province from the common voters' rolls. It developed into a dispute between Parliament and the executive, on the one hand, and the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, on the other hand, over the power of Parliament to amend an entrenched clause in the South Africa Act (the constitution) and the power of the Appellate Division to overturn the amendment as unconstitutional. The crisis ended when the government enlarged the Senate and altered its method of election, allowing the amendment to be successfully enacted.\n\nBefore the creation of the Union of South Africa, elections in the Cape Colony were conducted on the basis of the qualified franchise. This meant that the right to vote was limited to men meeting property and literacy qualifications, but not restricted on the basis of race. This differed from the other South African colonies: in Natal the franchise was limited to white men in practise though not in law, while in the Transvaal and the Orange River Colony the franchise was limited by law to white men. The South Africa Act, which was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, unified these four colonies to form the Union but preserved their franchise arrangements unchanged. Section 35 of the South Africa Act provided that no law could disenfranchise voters in the Cape Province on the basis of race, unless that law was passed by an absolute supermajority of two-thirds of the members of both Houses of Parliament sitting together in a joint session. Section 35 was entrenched by section 152, which provided that neither section 35 nor section 152 itself could be amended without a similar supermajority in joint session.\n\nIn 1931, the Statute of Westminster ended the power of the British Parliament to legislate for dominions such as South Africa and gave those dominions the power to repeal or amend British laws in force within their territories. In 1936, the South African Parliament enacted the Representation of Natives Act, removing \"native\" (black) voters from the common voters' rolls and allowing them to elect, separately, three members of the House of Assembly (the lower house) instead. Although this Act was passed by the required joint-session supermajority, its validity was challenged by an affected voter in the case of \"Ndlwana v Hofmeyr\". The challenge was rejected for a number of reasons, of which the most significant was the Appellate Division's ruling that because Parliament was a sovereign legislative body, courts could not invalidate one of its Acts on the basis of the procedure used to pass it.\n\nIn 1948, the National Party, campaigning on a platform of \"apartheid\", won that year's general election. The following year, Prime Minister addressed the question of Coloured voting rights in a speech to Parliament, claiming that Coloured voters were corrupt and immature and that they posed a threat to white control in South Africa. The government then sought to echo the 1936 Representation of Natives Act by introducing, in 1951, the Separate Representation of Voters Bill, whereby Coloured voters would also lose the right to vote for ordinary constituency members of the House of Assembly and instead elect four members at separate elections. Besides the Nationalists' ideological belief in white supremacy, the bill was also motivated by the electoral power of Coloured voters to swing a number of Cape constituencies from the National Party to the United Party.\n\nThe bill attracted much opposition both inside and outside Parliament. The United Party leader was against it both because he saw it as a breach of commitments given by earlier National Party leaders and because he believed it would lead Coloured people to form political alliances with black and Indian groups opposed to the white control of South Africa. A group of Coloured activists formed the National Convention Co-ordinating Committee to oppose the bill within constitutional limits. The Franchise Action Council, a multi-racial organisation, led a campaign of rallies, strikes and civil disobedience. The Torch Commando was founded by white Second World War veterans in response to the bill but expanded into a more general movement against the government's policies.\n\nThe National Party did not have enough seats in Parliament to pass the bill with the two-thirds majority in joint sitting that would be required if the entrenchment of sections 36 and 152 was still valid. Based on the ruling in Ndlwana's case (see above) and the principle of parliamentary sovereignty, Malan's government decided to enact it by following the normal parliamentary procedure of a simple majority in each house separately. The Governor-General gave his assent on 15 June 1951 and the act was promulgated on 18 June.\n\n, , and , four voters affected by the Separate Representation of Voters Act, challenged its validity in the Supreme Court in a case that became known as \"Harris v Dönges\" or \"Harris v Minister of the Interior\", as was at the time Minister of the Interior. Initially the case was dismissed by the Cape Provincial Division, which followed the precedent of \"Ndlwana v Hofmeyr\" to rule that the court had no authority to question the validity of an act of Parliament promulgated and published by the proper authority. This decision was immediately taken on appeal to the Appellate Division.\n\nThe government's first contention was that the act did not disqualify voters on the basis of race, as all voters previously qualified were still able to vote, albeit in segregated constituencies. The court dismissed this argument as untenable. The government then argued that the entrenched clauses in the South Africa Act had been repealed by implication by the Statute of Westminster, and that the precedent of the \"Ndlwana\" case precluded the courts from questioning the validity of an act of Parliament.\n\nThe government's claim regarding the Statute of Westminster was based on two principal theories. The first was based on the repeal of the application of the Colonial Laws Validity Act to South Africa. The Colonial Laws Validity Act provided that any act of a colonial parliament would be valid within the colony unless it contradicted a British act applying to the colony. The argument was that an alteration of the Cape franchise without a two-thirds majority would have contradicted the South Africa Act (which was itself an act of the British Parliament) and therefore would be impermissible under the Colonial Laws Validity Act; and that once that act no longer applied the entrenchment was not enforceable. The court disagreed, noting that section 152 of the South Africa Act specifically empowered the South African Parliament to amend the South Africa Act, and that the Colonial Laws Validity Act had no application and therefore its repeal had no effect.\n\nThe second theory was that, by expanding the legislative powers of the dominion parliaments, the Statute of Westminster had abolished the requirement for a two-thirds majority in joint session. Section 2 of the Statute of Westminster gave a dominion parliament the power to repeal or amend any act of the British Parliament as it applied in the dominion. This power, so the argument went, had been granted to a Parliament consisting of two separate houses acting with simple majorities, and this power could be exercised to amend the entrenched clauses without regard to the supermajority requirement. Again the court disagreed, ruling that the \"Parliament\" to which the amendment power had been granted was the Parliament constituted by the South Africa Act, and that this definition of Parliament included the procedural requirement that certain bills be passed by two-thirds majority in joint session. This did not affect the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty, as Parliament was fully sovereign over South Africa, and merely obliged to follow certain procedures to pass certain laws.\n\nThe final argument was that the principle of \"stare decisis\" bound the Appellate Division to follow the precedent of the \"Ndlwana\" case, in which it had ruled that Parliament can adopt any procedure it sees fit and the courts have no power to question the validity of its acts. The court ruled that it was entitled to overrule its own previous decisions if they were clearly wrong. In \"Ndlwana\" there had been no discussion of the Statute of Westminster nor any argument for or against the conclusion drawn by the court, and the court therefore felt free to overrule it.\n\nThe resulting order of the Appellate Division was that the Separate Representation of Voters Act was \"invalid, null and void and of no legal force and effect\". The ruling, authored by Chief Justice Albert van der Sandt Centlivres and handed down on 20 March 1952, was unanimous.\n\nThe response of Malan's government was immediate: on the day the decision was announced the Prime Minister declared that it was unacceptable, that the government refused to abide by it, and that he would take steps to have it overturned. In April 1952 introduced the High Court of Parliament Bill, which would constitute the members of Parliament into a High Court with the power to review and overturn any ruling of the Appellate Division declaring an act of Parliament to be invalid. This court was described as a \"court of law\"; it would have a \"Judicial Committee\" of ten members which could make recommendations, but the decision of the \"court\" would be determined by a majority vote of members present.\n\nDönges, in introducing the bill, argued that it would restore the power of the \"sovereign will of the electorate\" to determine which laws were valid, and would relieve the Appellate Division of accusations of political bias. of the opposition denounced the bill as establishing a \"political court [...] a bogus court set up in order to express the will of the Caucus of the National Party\". The bill was attacked in the English-language press, with the \"Cape Times\" calling it \"an insult to the intelligence of the judiciary\". It even met with opposition from a number of prominent Nationalists.\n\nDespite the opposition, the High Court of Parliament Bill was forced through Parliament. It was passed by the House of Assembly on 15 May 1952 and by the Senate on 27 May. A petition asking the Governor-General to withhold assent was rejected and the bill was assented to on 3 June. The Speaker of the House of Assembly was nominated as President of the High Court of Parliament, and he appointed a Judicial Committee of six government members and four opposition members, with , the Minister of Justice, as chairman. The opposition members resigned before the first meeting of the committee on 21 July 1952. After three days of hearings the committee recommended the reversal of the Appellate Division's ruling and the validation of the Separate Representation of Voters Act. The High Court of Parliament, which consisted only of Nationalist members of Parliament due to an opposition boycott, approved this recommendation on 27 August.\n\nMeanwhile, the plaintiffs from the first \"Harris\" case returned to the ordinary courts to challenge the validity of the High Court of Parliament Act. On 29 August the Cape Provincial Division ruled that the act had the effect of altering the entrenched clauses, and that as it had not been passed by a two-thirds majority in joint session it was invalid. The government's appeal, under the title of \"Minister of the Interior v Harris\", was heard in the Appellate Division on 27–29 October, and on 13 November the court handed down a unanimous decision upholding the ruling of the Cape court.\n\nThe court ruled that the existence of the entrenched clauses in the South Africa Act necessarily implied that those protected by the clauses had the right to have any law affecting them tested for validity by a court (\"ubi jus ibi remedium\"). Parliament, therefore, could not remove this power from the courts of law, and the High Court of Parliament was not a court of law but rather Parliament functioning under another name. As such, it had only the powers given to it by the South Africa Act, and these did not include the power to amend the entrenched clauses without a two-thirds majority in a joint sitting.\n\nThis was the height of the constitutional crisis. A general election was due to be held in 1953; if the government refused to accept the rulings of the Appellate Division and conducted the election on the basis of separate representation for white and coloured voters, the system of government could be imperilled. The officials responsible for voter registration would be forced to follow either the government's instructions and risk an interdict from the courts, or to follow the court's ruling and risk sanctions from the administration. There was the possibility that the courts could invalidate the entire election in the Cape Province and therefore the existence of the Parliament elected in 1953.\n\nThe government, therefore, while continuing to insist that the court's rulings were wrong, announced that it would accept them. The elections were held on 15 April 1953 with coloured voters in the Cape voting alongside white voters. Despite this, the National Party was returned in government with a larger majority: 94 seats out of 156, as opposed to 79 seats out of 153 in 1948.\n\nDuring 1953 and 1954, the National Party tried to re-validate the Separate Representation of Voters Act by convincing enough opposition members to support it to obtain a two-thirds majority; this effort was not successful. In 1955 the new Prime Minister adopted a new plan: the Senate (the upper house of Parliament) would be packed with National Party members to ensure the government would have the necessary two-thirds majority in a joint sitting.\n\nAs originally constituted by the South Africa Act, the Senate consisted of forty Senators. Eight were nominated by the Governor-General, and thus effectively by the government of the day. For each province eight Senators were elected by an electoral college consisting of the members of the House of Assembly representing that province and the members of the provincial council. These elections were conducted by the single transferable vote (STV) system of proportional representation. In 1936 the Representation of Natives Act added four Senators indirectly elected to represent black people. In 1949 another four were added to represent the territory of South-West Africa. In 1955, then, there were 26 Senators supporting the government and 21 supporting the opposition (and one vacant seat).\n\nThe Senate Act, 1955 reconstituted the Senate along new lines and expanded it to eighty-nine members. The number of nominated Senators was doubled to sixteen. The number of elected senators was increased to be, for each province, one-fifth of the size of that province's electoral college, with a minimum of eight Senators per province; so the Cape Province had twenty-two Senators, the Transvaal twenty-seven, and the other two provinces eight each. The four Senators elected under the Representation of Natives Act and four representing South-West Africa remained. The Senate Act also changed the system for electing provincial Senators from STV to simple majority voting, meaning that the majority party in each electoral college could choose all the Senators for that province. The result was that the National Party was able to control seventy-seven Senatorial seats: the sixteen nominated by the Governor-General, the fifty-seven elected for the Cape, Transvaal and the Orange Free State, and the four representing South-West Africa.\n\nWith the new Senate, the National Party commanded a two-thirds majority in a joint sitting, and thus was able to pass the South Africa Act Amendment Act, 1956. This act declared the original Separate Representation of Voters Act to be valid, and repealed the parts of section 35 of the South Africa Act entrenching the Cape franchise as well as the parts of section 152 entrenching section 35. (There remained one unrelated entrenched clause guaranteeing the equality of the English and Afrikaans languages.)\n\nThe government's opponents returned to the courts to have this new act also declared invalid, arguing that the Senate Act was passed as part of a deliberate scheme to circumvent the entrenched clauses. This time, however, the court disagreed. On 9 November the Appellate Division handed down a decision under the title of \"Collins v Minister of the Interior\" in which it ruled that Parliament had the power to alter the composition of the Senate, a power explicitly granted by the South Africa Act, and that its motivation was irrelevant. The Senate Act was therefore valid, and thus a joint sitting of the House of Assembly and the reconstituted Senate had the power to amend the entrenched clauses.\n\nTo ensure its success, the government had also passed the Appellate Division Quorum Act, 1955, expanding the Appellate Division to eleven judges, thus allowing the appointment of six new judges presumed to support the Nationalist position. This proved to have been unnecessary, as only one judge, Oliver Schreiner, dissented from the ruling.\n\nSeparate representatives for Coloured voters were first elected in the general election of 1958. Even this limited representation did not last, being ended from 1970 by the Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act, 1968. Instead, all Coloured adults were given the right to vote for the Coloured Persons Representative Council, which had limited legislative powers. The Council was in turn dissolved in 1980. In 1984 a new constitution introduced the Tricameral Parliament in which Coloured voters elected the House of Representatives.\n\nIn 1960, a new Senate Act reduced the size of the Senate and restored the single transferable vote system of election of the provincial Senators. In 1961 South Africa became a republic under a new constitution; this constitution repealed the now-unnecessary High Court of Parliament Act.\n\nIn 1994, with the end of apartheid, a new constitution was introduced which guarantees the right to vote for all adult citizens. This right, along with many other rights, is entrenched in the constitution. The Constitutional Court has the explicit power to invalidate acts of Parliament that are unconstitutional.\n\n"}
{"id": "42745830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42745830", "title": "Consip", "text": "Consip\n\nConsip S.p.A. is a joint-stock company, set up in 1997, held by the Italian Ministry of economy and finance (MEF), which is the sole shareholder. The company operates in keeping with the MEF’s strategic goals, working exclusively to serve the Public Administration sector.\n\nConsip is member of the Procurement G6, an informal group leading the use of framework agreements and e-procurement instruments in Public procurement.\n\nConsip’s mission is to make the use of public resources more efficient and transparent, by providing tools and skills to public administration. The goal is to allow them to perform public purchases and at the same time stimulate a competitive participation of enterprises to public tenders. \n\nConsip obtained the ISO 9001:2008 quality certification for the “design, implementation and launching of framework contracts and e-marketplaces for the procurement of public Goods and Services, in its role as a central purchasing body”.\n\nConsip, under the original name of CON.S.I.P. “Concessionaria Servizi Informativi Pubblici”, was founded in 1997 for the purpose of bringing about changes in IT management for the former Italian Ministry of the treasury, budget, and economic planning.\n\nThrough Legislative Decree n. 414 of 19 November 1997, Consip was assigned with ICT activities for Italy’s national public administration in the areas of finance and accounting. Subsequently, through the Decrees of the Ministry of the treasury of 22 December 1997 and 17 June 1998, the company was put in charge of managing and developing ICT services for said Ministry.\n\nTwo years later, Consip was assigned with launching the “Programme for the rationalisation of public administration purchases”. In fact, in enforcing the 2000 Budget law, through the Ministerial Decree of 24 February 2000, the Ministry of economy and finance put Consip in charge of assisting the public administrations with their procurement of goods and services.\n\nOver the years, many projects have influenced the development of activities assigned to the company. Today, Consip operates as Italy’s central purchasing body, providing support for individual PAs, and carrying out new tasks assigned through legal provisions and/or administrative acts.\n\nThe company carries out activities in consulting, assistance, and support in procuring goods and services for Public Administrations (PAs).\n\nConsip’s activities involve three main areas:\n\nConsip offers consultancy and project-design services, having developed, over time, technical, legal and project management skills.\nConsip is a competence centre specialized in all phases of the procurement value chain; it stands beside public administrations both in the procurement strategic planning phase and in the real purchasing phase, by providing e-procurement tools, assistance and consultancy.\nConsip relies on about 340 staff members, with an average age of 43 years. 83% of the employees are university graduates and 51% of them are women.\n\nConsip's board of directors chronology:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56598812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56598812", "title": "David Locke Hall", "text": "David Locke Hall\n\nDavid Locke Hall is a highly decorated former Assistant United States Attorney, Naval Intelligence officer, and author.\n\nHall was born in California in 1955. He received a BA from Dartmouth College, an MBA from Yale, and JD and MA degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. After law school, Hall served as a law clerk to the Honorable Walter King Stapleton, United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\n\nHall served for 23 years with the United States Department of Justice as an Assistant United States Attorney, retiring in 2013. He tried a large number of significant cases to verdict, including mobster Roy Stocker of the K&A Gang. Hall also prosecuted the Leath Cocaine Trafficking Organization, the leaders of which were involved in shooting Philadelphia Police Officer Donald McMullin. \n\nA significant focus of Hall's prosecutorial career was the investigation and prosecution of weapons proliferation and technology transfer offenders. In the 1990s, he prosecuted the Armaments Corporation of South Africa (Armscor), Kentron, Fuchs Electronics, and others for violations of the Arms Export Control Act during the apartheid era. The ARMSCOR case was a significant point of contention between the United States and the Republic of South Africa because ARMSCOR and Kentron were state-owned corporations. After lengthy negotiations, the dispute was resolved by the pleas of ARMSCOR, Kentron, and Fuchs to criminal charges and the payment of fines in excess of $11 million.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, Hall investigated and prosecuted Amir Ardebili, an Iranian arms procurement agent working in Shiraz, Iran, acquiring components for the F4, F14, and other military aircraft, as well as microchips for use in phased array radar. The years long investigation resulted in an undercover meeting between Ardebili and U.S. agents on October 1 and October 2, 2007 in Tbilisi, Republic of Georgia, where Ardebili was arrested by Georgian authorities. He was extradited to the United States in January 2008. Ardebili pled guilty to violations of the Arms Export Control Act, International Emergency Economic Powers Act, smuggling, conspiracy and money laundering in May 2008. The Ardebili case is the subject of a book, Operation Shakespeare: The True Story of an Elite International Sting, written by John Shiffman.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2013, Hall led the undercover investigation and prosecution of Xiang Li, a Chinese software pirate. Xiang Li's Chengdu, China-based operation sold over $100 million in cracked software products with multiple high-tech applications, including telecommunications, explosive simulation, aerospace, satellite tracking, and flight simulation. The undercover investigation led to a meeting on Saipan between federal agents and Xiang Li in June 2011. At that meeting, Xiang Li delivered 20 gigabytes of proprietary data hacked from a defense contractor. Xiang Li was charged with trafficking in more than $100 million in stolen copyrighted software. He pled guilty in January 2013 and in June 2013 was sentenced to 12 years incarceration.\n\nHall has testified before the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Committee on Foreign Affairs, United States House of Representatives on \"Examining the Effectiveness of the Kingpin Designation Act in the Western Hemisphere.\" \n\nHall also served as the Special Prosecutor for the FBI Art Crime Team. During this time, he worked closely with FBI Special Agent Robert King Wittman. Hall negotiated the return of three stolen Norman Rockwell paintings from Brazil in 2001. In 2009, he led the successful undercover investigation and prosecution of Marcus Patmon, an art thief who sold stolen works by Picasso. Hall forfeited and returned to Iraq a collection of Mesopotamian artifacts in 2010. In 2011, Hall affected the return to Peru of a gold Moche monkey head (circa 300 A.D.) that had been looted from the royal tombs of Sipan. In 2013, Hall seized and forfeited the Rosenberg Diary, the long-lost diary of Alfred Rosenberg, Nazi propagandist and Reich Minister for the occupied eastern territories. The Rosenberg Diary is now part of the Holocaust Museum collection.\n\nHall served in the United States Navy and Navy Reserve as an intelligence officer for thirty years. Commissioned in 1984, he retired at the rank of Captain in 2015. He commanded three intelligence units and served with the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Office of Naval Intelligence, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in addition to numerous Navy commands. He was a third generation naval officer, his father having served as a Marine Corps officer with the Second Marine Division in World War II.\n\nThroughout his career, Hall has received numerous awards in recognition of his outstanding professional and military service including:\n\n2013- \"\"Meritorious Service Medal\" by the United States Navy\n\n2012- \"International Achievement Award\" by the Department of Homeland Security\n\n2010- \"SAFE Beacon Award\" by Saving Antiquities for Everyone \n\n2008- \"Excellence in Law Enforcement Award\" by the Department of Homeland Security\n\n2008- \"Defense Meritorious Service Medal\" by the Department of Defense\n\n2004- \"Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal\" by the United States Navy\n\n2000- \"Joint Service Commendation Medal\" by the Department of Defense\n\n1998- \"Director's Award for Superior Performance\" by the Department of Justice\n\n1997- \"FBI Director Citation\" by the Federal Bureau of Investigation\n\n2015- \"CRACK99: The Takedown of a $100 Million Chinese Software Pirate\" W. W. Norton\n\n2015- \"Stolen Cultural Property: A Risk Management Primer\" (chapter co-author), \"The Legal Guide for Museum Professionals (J. Courtney, ed.)\", Rowman and Littlefield\n\n1991- \"The Reagan Wars: A Constitutional Perspective on War Powers and the Presidency\"\" Westview Press\n\n"}
{"id": "21427364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21427364", "title": "Decree-Law 15/93", "text": "Decree-Law 15/93\n\nThe Decree-Law 15/93 of January 22 () is a Portuguese drug control law implementing the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.\nIt classifies substances into six categories, Table () I through Table VI. Tables I and II are each further broken down into classes: A, B, and C.\n\nThis law was also the first that created the crime of money laundering in Portuguese law.\n\nThe introduction of the law, which is primarily aimed at controlling drug trafficking, says that although the use of drugs is socially censurable, that \"does not prevent drug addicts from being seen in the first place as persons who are in need of medical assistance\" who should receive care. Thus, \"drug consumers are presently legally punishable in an almost symbolic fashion\" that encourages treatment.\n\nWhile drug use is illegal in Portugal, the law's introduction notes of occasional drug users: \"it is necessary above all to avoid them being labelled, marginalised, pushed into an impasse or towards avenues whose only way out is drugs.\" However, the Portuguese government condemned the Dutch pragmatic policy, well known for its absence of user punishment.\n\nDrug trafficking is punished with very harsh sentences; in the most severe cases, it can be punished by 10 years to 25 years of imprisonment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTable III includes special preparations which may include limited amounts of any of the controlled drugs listed under Tables I and II.\n\nTables V and VI comprise precursor substances (and salts thereof) which may be used to manufacture drugs listed under Tables I and II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082279", "title": "Demand reduction", "text": "Demand reduction\n\nDemand reduction refers to efforts aimed at reducing the public desire for illegal and illicit drugs. The drug policy is in contrast to the reduction of drug supply, but the two policies are often implemented together. Some discussions of demand reduction make a distinction between policies that address single issues (such as public \"knowledge-of-harms\") or are short-term interventions(in-school programs), and those that approach drug demand as a complex issue with multiple social risk factors. Some economists such as Milton Friedman argue that due to the law of supply and demand, reducing demand is the only effective way to reduce drug use long-term. It is questionable, however, whether demand reduction programs actually reduce demand.\n\nIn September 2011, Canada implemented new color graphic depictions of the consequences of smoking, mandating that they cover 75% of the front and back of each carton, health information messages on the inside of the pack, and toxic emissions statements. Each tobacco product features one such image from a series, which includes people dying in hospitals, rotting mouths, and dissected body parts depicting tumors, along with simple bold messages stating that cigarettes cause cancer, mouth disease, impotence, and harm babies. International research supports the efficacy of such warning messages.\n\nOther examples of demand reduction programs include D.A.R.E., the State of Montana's \"Not Even Once\"., and the drug policy of Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "33076435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33076435", "title": "Demoicracy", "text": "Demoicracy\n\nDemoicracy (also demoi-cracy) is a polity of multiple distinct people (\"demoi\"), polity of polities. The term is derived from \"demoi\" (δῆμοι in original Ancient Greek, plural form of δῆμος or \"demos\"), meaning \"peoples\" and \"kratos\" (κράτος) meaning \"power\" (to govern oneself). It is apparently meant to become an alternative to democracy, understood as power of a single \"demos\". The term is used mainly to describe the genus of the European Union (EU) but is also gaining currency in more general theories of democracy above state level.\n\nPhilippe van Parijs used the term \"demoi-cracy\" negatively in 1998 to refer to the existing state of affair in Europe and in contrast to \"European demos-cracy\". This is not the meaning of the term in mainstream scholarship today. Instead, the term refers to Kalypso Nicolaïdis original statement in 2003 that the EU ought to be understood as a demoicracy in the making, a third way against two alternatives which both equate the possibility of democracy with the existence of a single demos, either national demos (the EU as association of democratic states) or supranational (the EU as a federal state). In contrast, the EU is not and should not be conceived of as any form of state (federal or any other) and does not depend on the existence of a single European demos to be demoicratic. Thus, the concept has both descriptive and normative aspects. It tries to square the circle between the common criticism that the EU is undemocratic (the \"democratic deficit\" thesis) and the claim that there is no European demos (the \"no demos thesis\"), purporting that a demos is not a \"sine qua non\" for democracy and multiple separate demoi can effectively control the government and in that sense exercise popular sovereignty. Later, Nicolaidis refined her definition of demoicracy as \"a Union of peoples who govern together but not as one\" \n\nNicolaïdis’s originally advanced the concept as an alternative to the calls of the philosopher Jürgen Habermas and by the former German foreign minister Joschka Fischer that a common European identity must and should be ‘forged’. Instead, she argued in favour of a community which recognises its irreducible internal pluralism and is based on mutual recognition of differences rather than shared values as Habermas would have it. While both sides of the debate premise their argument on some arguable empirical claims (distinct ‘European’ values or celebration of tolerance respectively), neither of these is necessary for the normative plausibility of demoicracy as a theoretical concept. Currently many other commentators maintain that the concept is uniquely adequate for the age of interdependence of states and globalization of governance which should supersede the 'nation-centred' vocabulary. Perhaps that is why the term was latter embraced by some of the major proponents of deliberative democracy like James Bohman and Samantha Besson (even if not by Habermas himself). With the work of the latter authors the concept gained currency beyond the EU-scholarship and especially among the cosmopolitan republicanists as the most promising way for realisation of transnational democracy. Bohman in particular sees demoicracy as an emancipation project. It is meant to avoid domination which can occur across borders (citizens of one state may suffer from decisions of citizens of another which are taken arbitrarily). As domination can occur also internally all oppressed groups may qualify as demoi deserving a voice in governance. Thus, Besson suggests a dynamic concept of \"demoi\", which comprises all those affected by any particular decision (and thus subject to arbitrary domination by the group of the decision-makers).\n\nWith regard to the EU the concept has been criticized because it does not provide an answer to the 'no demos thesis' but merely disguises the problem of democratic deficit and forgoes the capacity of peoples to collectively control their fate. Yet the concept is certainly more than a euphemism or exercise in scholastic creativity – if the EU is qualitatively different from the nation state (and from the federation) it needs to be analysed in different terms as well. As almost all politicians and academics claim the EU is not and should not become a superstate, it would be grossly misleading to evaluate it in terms of a state. Indeed, it makes little sense to claim that the Union is not a state and in the same time to criticise it for not being a democratic one. On the other hand, if it is recognised that the Union, as a polity of its own kind is to be analysed in idiosyncratic terms, we face a problem of circularity – we face an entity which claims to be a standard to itself.\nRecognising that, Francis Cheneval and Frank Schimmelfenning propose to extend the moral constructivism of John Rawls to transnational cases: 'the inter-subjective beliefs about the moral purpose of the liberal democratic state do not only imply the normative expectation of rule of law and procedural justice for the fundamental institutions of international society. They also imply normative expectations of democratic government in a society of liberal democratic states. The inter-subjective beliefs about the moral purpose of the liberal democratic state will eventually filter through into the relational structure of liberal democratic states.'\n\nThus they set out to derive abstract moral principles for a demoicracy and use them to judge the EU subsequently. Their principles apply to transnational as well as to national level, and they find that the EU is approaching these principle while 'major demoi-cratic deficits remain at the national level.' In spite of this optimistic result, there is at least one deficiency of the EU from demoicratic perspective and it is that the governance discourse is almost exclusively elitist. This is especially problematic as demoicracy is calling for even more involvement of citizens on issues of governance.\n\nMost demoicracy scholarship is abstract, and very little has been done to flesh out what an actual demoicracy should look like. Yet there are few practical claims that seem shared by all of the commentators. The first is the reliance on networks as agents of democracy beyond the nation-state where discourses are not mediated by states or nationality. The second is the active participation of citizens in these networks so that they are involved in the decision-making, deliberations and contestation at every level. All demoicrats would emphasise the importance of horizontal relationships between citizens, organisations and institutions from the different \"demoi\" on issues of their collective governance or on the governance of other states. Rights and legitimate interests of citizens are not limited to their own demos/polity but are extended across the borders to what is usually considered internal affairs of the other polities and people. This horizontal relationship is what distinguishes a demoicracy from a federation where the internal affairs of a federal unit are insulated from external contestation at least horizontally.\n\nBeyond these general principles however, few details of an actual demoicracy are spelled out. To remedy this, Cheneval and Schimmelfenning with a team of researchers at ETH Zurich have embarked on a project intended 'to map and explain the development of demoicratic institutions.' A precious few examples of genuine demoicratic institutions have been identified by other researchers. Bohman celebrates the system of policy coordination through committees and agencies in the EU as a demoicratic mechanism. This is noteworthy, as from the traditional, that is \"demo\"-cratic, perspective the influence of numerous EU committees and working parties is quite questionable. In the same vein, Michael Buess reconsiders the interaction between the EU agencies and their national counterparts from demoicratic perspective. Another example of demoicratically interlinked institutions is the so-called ‘yellow card’ or Early Warning Mechanism introduced by the Lisbon Treaty. According to Vesco Paskalev this is an attempt to provide an institutionalized network which enables many \"demoi\" to deliberate together on substantive EU legislation.\n\nFor a comprehensive and recent evaluation of the concept and its various usages see Jan-Werner Muller 'The Promise of Demoi-cracy: Diversity and Domination in the European Public Order' in Neyer, Jurgen & Wiener Antije \"The Political Theory of the European Union\" (2010).\n"}
{"id": "22957447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22957447", "title": "Employment (Equal Opportunities) Law, 1988", "text": "Employment (Equal Opportunities) Law, 1988\n\nEmployment (Equal Opportunities) Law is an Israeli law passed in 1988, that prohibits the employer from discriminating between job applicants or employees on the following criteria:\n\nAnything required by the character or substance of the position or job is not to be deemed discriminatory by the law. Prohibition of discrimination applies to hiring, working conditions, promotion, professional training or studies, discharge or severance pay and benefits and payments provided for employees in connection with their retirement from employment. The law was enacted in 1988, and replaced an earlier 1981 law. \nThe law further provides that, under certain conditions, provisions in an enactment, collective agreement or employment contract made in connection with maternity are not to be considered discriminatory. It also provides that any rights given to working mothers are to be given equally to working fathers, under certain conditions. Protection from sexual harassment is addressed in section 7, which states that an employer shall not \"act against\" an employee who rejects, or opposes, any act of a sexual nature committed by the employer or by the supervisor of the employee.\n\nViolation of the law constitutes both a civil and criminal offence, and courts may grant compensation even when no material damage was caused. In addition, civil proceedings can be initiated by an employee, an employee organization or civil rights group, with special protection granted to the worker filing the complaint. The Israeli Ministry of Economy (formerly known as the Industry, Trade and Labor Ministry) is responsible for promoting the law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5173083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5173083", "title": "Englander v Telus Communications Inc", "text": "Englander v Telus Communications Inc\n\nEnglander v Telus Communications Inc, 2004 FCA 387 is a leading Federal Court of Appeal decision on Canadian privacy law under PIPEDA.\n\nMathew Englander filed a complaint with the Privacy Commissioner of Canada against Telus, his residential telephone service provider, for disclosing its customers' personal information to third parties without the customers' knowledge and consent, and for charging customers a two-dollar fee to have an unlisted phone number.\n\nThe Privacy Commissioner found the complaint not well-founded, citing a Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) rule that allowed a fee of up to two dollars for being de-listed. Englander then applied to the Federal Court of Canada – Trial Division for a judicial declaration that Telus's policies contravened PIPEDA, and other relief, but the court dismissed the application.\n\nThe Court of appeal held that Telus was permitted to charge a fee under the CRTC regulations for name removal. However, the Court also found that Telus violated PIPEDA by not gaining full consent when they failed to offer the option to have the name excluded from the white pages when the customer signed up for the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "3286059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3286059", "title": "Evidence Regulation", "text": "Evidence Regulation\n\nCouncil Regulation (EC) No. 1206/2001 of 28 May 2001 on cooperation between the courts of the Member States in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters is a European Union regulation in the field of judicial cooperation. It allows taking of evidence from one member state to another without recourse to consular and diplomatic channels. The regulation applies to all the member states of the European Union with the exception of Denmark. The Danish European Union opt-out referendum, 2015, which would have opted-in, was rejected by the populace.\n\nTaking of evidence in civil cases prior to the regulation was done by either under the Hague Evidence Convention or by means of a \"letter rogatory\" (also called a letter of request), a formal request from a court in one country to take evidence to another in which the witness is domiciled. This formal document usually required transmission from the originating court to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) in the state of origin, who then forwarded it, possibly through various embassies, to the MFA in the destination state. The foreign MFA would then pass the documents to the judicial authorities in that state, who would then go about obtaining the required evidence. The evidence would then be returned via the same long winded channels.\n\nThis regulation enables a somewhat simplified route by allowing direct contact between the courts in the member states. A standardised request form included in the annex to the regulation must be used. This aids the process by being widely recognised by the relevant authorities. The regulation also contains various articles to promote the use of communication technologies such as telephone conferencing and videoconferencing.\n\n"}
{"id": "53099769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53099769", "title": "Finnish Defence Forces military oath", "text": "Finnish Defence Forces military oath\n\nMilitary oath in the Finnish Defence Forces is taken by conscripts on a legal basis in the beginning of their military service. If the conscript is unwilling to take the oath, another option is to take the military affirmation. Before the conscript is to take the oath, he must be briefed on the rights and responsibilities of a soldier, as well as on the meaning of the oath. The oath is administered by the unit's commanding officer and in the presence of the unit's flag. The military oath used to be available only to members of the church, however, current legislation no longer makes such a distinction.\n\nUsually the military oath is taken after the basic training period or about seven weeks into the conscript's military service. Depending on the circumstances, the oath ceremony is held either at the garrison or at a nearby municipality. The aim is to make the event as ceremonious as possible. The relatives of the conscript's are usually invited to attend the ceremony. The ceremony also includes a parade, field service, equipment demonstration and lunch. After taking the oath, the conscripts receive the rank of private. The military affirmation is usually taken on the same day in a smaller ceremony. The conscripts who take the assurance usually still participate in the oath ceremony, but do not take the oath itself.\nMinä N. N. lupaan ja vakuutan kaikkivaltiaan ja kaikkitietävän Jumalan edessä (vakuutuksessa: kunniani ja omantuntoni kautta),\nolevani Suomen valtakunnan luotettava ja uskollinen kansalainen. Tahdon palvella maatani rehellisesti sekä parhaan kykyni mukaan etsiä ja edistää sen hyötyä ja parasta.\nMinä tahdon kaikkialla ja kaikissa tilanteissa, rauhan ja sodan aikana puolustaa isänmaani koskemattomuutta, sen laillista valtiojärjestystä sekä valtakunnan laillista esivaltaa. Jos havaitsen tai saan tietää jotakin olevan tekeillä laillisen esivallan kukistamiseksi tai maan valtiojärjestyksen kumoamiseksi, tahdon sen viipymättä viranomaisille ilmoittaa.\nJoukkoa, johon kuulun sekä paikkaani siinä, en jätä missään tilanteessa, vaan niin kauan kuin minussa voimia on, suoritan saamani tehtävän loppuun.\nLupaan käyttäytyä kunnollisesti ja ryhdikkäästi, totella esimiehiäni, noudattaa lakeja ja asetuksia sekä säilyttää minulle uskotut palvelussalaisuudet. Tahdon olla suora ja auttavainen myös palvelustovereitani kohtaan. Milloinkaan en sukulaisuuden, ystävyyden, kateuden, vihan tai pelon vuoksi enkä myöskään lahjojen tai muun syyn tähden toimi vastoin palvelusvelvollisuuttani.\nJos minut asetetaan esimiesasemaan, tahdon olla alaisiani kohtaan oikeudenmukainen, pitää huolta heidän hyvinvoinnistaan, hankkia tietoa heidän toiveistaan, olla heidän neuvonantajanaan ja ohjaajanaan sekä omasta puolestani pyrkiä olemaan heille hyvänä ja kannustavana esimerkkinä.\nKaiken tämän minä tahdon kunniani ja omantuntoni mukaan täyttää.\n\nI, (name), promise and affirm before the almighty and all-knowing God (in affirmation: by my honor and by my conscience),\nthat I am a trustworthy and faithful citizen of the realm of Finland. I want to serve my country honestly and, to my best ability, seek and pursue her edification and advantage.\nI want everywhere and in every situation, during the peace and during the war, defend the inviolability of my fatherland, her legal system of government and the legal authority of the realm. If I perceive or gain knowledge of activity to overthrow the legal authority or to subvert the system of government of the country, I want to report it to the authorities without delay.\nThe troop to which I belong and my place in it I will not desert in any situation, but so long as I have strength in me, I will completely fulfill the task I have received.\nI promise to act properly and uprightly, obey my superiors, comply with the laws and decrees and keep the service secrets trusted in me. I want to be forthright and helpful to my fellow servicemen. Never will I due to kinship, friendship, envy, hatred or fear nor because of gifts or any other reason act contrary to my duty in service. If I be given a position of superiority, I want to be rightful to my subordinates, to take care of their well-being, acquire information on their wishes, to be their councilor and guide and, for my own self, set them a good and encouraging example. \nAll this I want to fulfill according to my honor and my conscience.\n\n"}
{"id": "51924664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51924664", "title": "Florida Building Code", "text": "Florida Building Code\n\nThe Florida Building Code (FBC) is a set of standards designed by the US state of Florida for buildings. Many regulations and guidelines distributed are important benchmarks regarding hurricane protection. Miami-Dade County was the first in Florida to certify hurricane resistant standards for structures which the Florida Building Code subsequently enacted across all requirements for Hurricane resistant buildings. Many other states reference the requirements set in the Florida Building codes, or have developed their own requirements for hurricanes.\n\nIn many aspects the Florida Building Code is similar to and is based upon the International Building Code (IBC) used in the United States.\n\nThe Florida Building Code, 5th Edition, released 2014, is currently the latest, with the 6th edition due in 2017.\n\nThe 2010 edition of the Florida Building Code introduced significant changes to wind load design, in particular the presentation of the wind speed maps.\n\nThe Miami-Dade and Broward County norms, are both included in the High-Velocity Hurricane Zones (HVHZ) and contain more stringent requirements. Other counties such as Palm Beach County do not require the same HVHZ building standards for compliance with the Florida Building Codes.\n\nBoth Miami-Dade County and the State of Florida maintain web-searchable databases of products approved for use as hurricane protection. These typically include not only actual test results from certified independent testing laboratories, they also contain \"Product Approval Drawings\" or \"Installation Instructions\" which provide specifications for hurricane shutter assembly and installation.\n\nImpact tests conducted on building materials are measured and tested via TAS201, 202 and 203.\n\n"}
{"id": "11678549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11678549", "title": "French presidential election referendum, 1962", "text": "French presidential election referendum, 1962\n\nA referendum on the direct election of the President was held in France on 28 October 1962. The question was whether to have the president of the French Republic elected by direct popular vote, rather than by an electoral college. It was approved by 62.3% of voters with a 77.0% turnout. However, the reform was controversial because it strengthened the executive at the expense of Parliament, and because of the disputed constitutionality of the procedure used.\n\nIn the Third and Fourth Republic, Parliament elected the President of the Republic. In the original 1958 constitution of the Fifth Republic, the president was elected by an electoral college, in a manner similar to the senators: electors were the members of Parliament, members of the departmental assemblies, and representatives of cities, towns and villages (such as mayors). Charles de Gaulle was elected in this manner in the 1958 presidential election.\n\nThe presidential office in the Third and Fourth republic was largely ceremonial, with most executive power vested in the \"president of the Council of ministers\" (short: \"president of the Council\" or \"président du conseil\"), a more powerful analogue to the present-day Prime minister. Charles de Gaulle, who largely designed the constitution of the Fifth Republic, wanted a more powerful presidential office. The proposed change would have the president elected by the two-round system of voting; This direct election by more than half of the non-blank ballots directly cast by the citizenship would give the office much more legitimacy and status than indirect election by the presidential college, thus greater influence even with unchanged constitutional powers.\n\nCharles de Gaulle soon preferred to be elected by direct popular vote, which would give him a stronger political position, and proposed that the Constitution be amended.\n\nThe referendum was highly controversial. Part of the controversy concerned the constitutional processes for modifying the Constitution. According to article 89 of the Constitution of France, any constitutional reform must be first approved by both houses of Parliament: the National Assembly and the Senate. Then it is either approved by a referendum, or by a solemn joint session of both houses known as Congress. Instead, Charles de Gaulle used Article 11 of the Constitution, which allows the Prime Minister, then Georges Pompidou, to request the President to submit to a referendum a bill in certain areas of law, including \"the organization of public powers\". To summarize, supporters of de Gaulle and the referendum contended that Article 11 allowed bills to be passed on constitutional matters, while opponents considered that the existence of a special process in Article 89 precluded this.\n\nMany legal scholars and politicians disagreed with this application of Article 11, which they felt was unconstitutional, while Gaullists generally supported the move. François Mitterrand, former minister and future President of the Republic, characterized the referendum as unconstitutional. Gaston Monnerville, president of the Senate, referred the matter to the Constitutional Council (Article 61). The council however ruled that it fell outside of its jurisdiction to strike down a reform voted by the French people, thus upholding de Gaulle's action. This was unsurprising: from 1958 to 1970, under Charles de Gaulle's presidency, the Constitutional Council was sometimes described as a \"cannon aimed at Parliament\", protecting the executive branch against encroachment by Parliament; all referrals except the one from Monnerville had come from the Prime Minister, who always got a ruling of partial unconstitutionality (the Council had struck down for unconstitutionality provisions introduced by Parliament that the Prime Minister disagreed with). Monnerville went as far as to use the strong word of \"forfaiture\" (\"abuse of authority\") against the behaviour of Prime Minister Pompidou, who had accepted the referendum project.\n\nMany members of the National Assembly were also very unhappy about the situation. On 4 October 1962, the Assembly voted no-confidence in the Government, resulting in the automatic resignation of the Prime Minister (Constitution, article 49-2); this was the only successful vote of no-confidence of the Fifth Republic. The vote was supported by, among others, former prime ministers Paul Reynaud and Guy Mollet, who severely criticized the referendum. Charles de Gaulle dissolved the Assembly within a few days, thus provoking legislative elections in November, and appointed Georges Pompidou again.\n\nSince the referendum was positive, the mode of election of the president changed, and Charles de Gaulle remains the only president of France elected by an electoral college. Charles de Gaulle was reelected in 1965, this time by direct suffrage.\n\n"}
{"id": "13073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13073", "title": "GNU Lesser General Public License", "text": "GNU Lesser General Public License\n\nThe GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) is a free software license published by the Free Software Foundation (FSF). The license allows developers and companies to use and integrate software released under the LGPL into their own (even proprietary) software without being required by the terms of a strong copyleft license to release the source code of their own components. The license only requires software under the LGPL be modifiable by end users via source code availability. For proprietary software, code under the LGPL is usually used in the form of a shared library, so that there is a clear separation between the proprietary and LGPL components. The LGPL is primarily used for software libraries, although it is also used by some stand-alone applications.\n\nThe LGPL was developed as a compromise between the strong copyleft of the GNU General Public License (GPL) and more permissive licenses such as the BSD licenses and the MIT License. The word \"Lesser\" in the title shows that the LGPL does not guarantee the end user's complete freedom in the use of software; it only guarantees the freedom of modification for components licensed under the LGPL, but not for any proprietary components.\n\nThe license was originally called the GNU Library General Public License and was first published in 1991, and adopted the version number 2 for parity with GPL version 2. The LGPL was revised in minor ways in the 2.1 point release, published in 1999, when it was renamed the GNU Lesser General Public License to reflect the FSF's position that not all libraries should use it. Version 3 of the LGPL was published in 2007 as a list of additional permissions applied to GPL version 3.\n\nThe main difference between the GPL and the LGPL is that the latter allows the work to be linked with (in the case of a library, \"used by\") a non-(L)GPLed program, regardless of whether it is free software or proprietary software. The non-(L)GPLed program can then be distributed under any terms if it is not a derivative work. If it is a derivative work, then the program's terms must allow for \"modification for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\" Whether a work that uses an LGPL program is a derivative work or not is a legal issue. A standalone executable that dynamically links to a library through a .so, .dll, or similar medium is generally accepted as not being a derivative work as defined by the LGPL. It would fall under the definition of a \"work that uses the Library\". Paragraph 5 of the LGPL version 2.1 states:\n\nEssentially, if it is a \"work that uses the library\", then it must be possible for the software to be linked with a newer version of the LGPL-covered program. The most commonly used method for doing so is to use \"a suitable shared library mechanism for linking\". Alternatively, a statically linked library is allowed if either source code or linkable object files are provided.\n\nOne feature of the LGPL is the permission to relicense under the GPL any piece of software which is received under the LGPL (see section 3 of the LGPL version 2.1, and section 2 option b of the LGPL version 3). This feature allows for direct reuse of LGPLed code in GPLed libraries and applications.\n\nVersion 3 of the LGPL is not inherently compatible with version 2 of the GPL. However, works using the latter that have given permission to use a later version of the GPL are compatible: a work released under the GPLv2 \"or any later version\" may be combined with code from a LGPL version 3 library, with the combined work as a whole falling under the terms of the GPLv3.\n\nThe former name \"GNU Library General Public License\" gave some the impression that the FSF recommended software libraries use the LGPL and that programs use the GPL. In February 1999, GNU Project leader Richard Stallman wrote the essay \"Why you shouldn't use the Lesser GPL for your next library\" explaining that the LGPL had not been deprecated, but that one should not \"necessarily\" use the LGPL for all libraries:\n\nStallman and the FSF sometimes advocate licenses even less restrictive than the LGPL as a matter of strategy. A prominent example was Stallman's endorsement of the use of a BSD-style license by the Vorbis project for use in its libraries.\n\nThe license uses terminology which is mainly intended for applications written in the C programming language or its family. Franz Inc. published its own preamble to the license to clarify terminology in the Lisp context. LGPL with this preamble is sometimes referred as LLGPL.\n\nIn addition, Ada has a special feature, , which may prompt the use of GNAT Modified General Public License: it allows code to link against or instantiate GMGPL-covered units without the code itself becoming covered by the GPL.\n\nC++ templates and header-only libraries have the same problem as Ada generics. Version 3 of the LGPL addresses such cases in section 3.\n\nSome concern has risen about the suitability of object-oriented classes in LGPL'd being inherited by non-(L)GPL code. Clarification is given on the official GNU website:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50786879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50786879", "title": "Gibson and Weldon", "text": "Gibson and Weldon\n\nGibson and Weldon was a law practice at 27 Chancery Lane in London and the name of its tutorial firm which from 1876 until 1962 prepared hundreds of thousands of future solicitors and barristers in England and Wales for their examinations. Gibson and Weldon also published the monthly journal \"Law Notes\" and a series of legal textbooks from adjacent offices at 25–26 Chancery Lane. The firm's principles were Albert Gibson (1852–1921) and Arthur William Weldon (1856–1943). After the death of Arthur Weldon the tutorial firm continued until 1962 when it was merged with the Law Society's own law school to form the College of Law (since 2013 known as the University of Law).\n\nThe latter part of the 19th century saw the introduction of formal examinations for entry into the legal profession. From 1862 solicitors were required to pass the Intermediate and Preliminary Examinations set by the Law Society, and later a prestigious Honours Examination was introduced. Compulsory written examinations for barristers were introduced in 1872. The university law schools concentrated on the principles, as opposed to the practice, of the law and found it increasingly difficult to sustain courses which could provide the practical knowledge required to pass the examinations. The Council of Legal Education, established by the Inns of Court in 1852, had the same problem. This in turn led to the rise of specialist tutorial firms which legal historian Patricia Leighton has termed \"the first professional law teachers.\" The firms were largely established and run by practicing attorneys in London. The tension arising in the profession between the systems followed by the university law schools and those of the tutorial firms had sometimes led them to be dismissed as \"crammers\". It was a tension reflected in Gibson and Weldon's own 1905 advertisement stating that their \"system of student preparation is as far as possible that of a Law School and all idea of preparing students on a 'cram' system is disregarded.\" Over 60 years after the firm's founding, the British jurist R. M. Jackson wrote in \"The Machinery of Justice in England\":\n\nI was in my time a pupil of Gibson and Weldon and I received better training from Mr. Weldon than I ever had in Cambridge, and by that I do not mean just the know-how to pass examinations but a real insight into the ways of lawyers and the courts.\n\nGibson and Weldon began in 1876 when Albert Gibson who had qualified as a solicitor in the Easter 1874 Honours examination began advertising for pupils who needed coaching for the Law Society examinations. In 1881, he was joined by the newly qualified Arthur Weldon who had been one of his first pupils. By the end of the 19th century, Gibson and Weldon, along with Indermaur and Thwaites, dominated the law tutorial market in the UK. The two firms also dominated the law publishing market. January 1882 saw the first edition of \"Gibson's Law Notes\", a monthly magazine for law students which originally published model answers and study advice for the Law Society examinations and other articles of interest to the legal profession. In 1885 it became simply \"Law Notes\" and remained in publication until the mid-1990s, long after Gibson and Weldon had ceased existence as a tutorial firm. Gibson and Weldon also published guides to the profession such as \"How to Become a Barrister\" and \"How to Become a Solicitor\" and numerous student-centered text books which were frequently updated in multiple editions. Their text book on conveyancing, first published in 1888 ran to 21 editions, the last of which was published in 1980. \nFor a time Edward Power Bilbrough was a partner in their practice at 27 Chancery Lane and also co-authored a textbook on the Companies Act of 1900 with Gibson and Weldon. However, he left to form his own practice in 1901, and Gibson, Weldon and Bilbrough once again became Gibson and Weldon. Over the years, several other lawyers joined the firm as tutors and as authors of their teaching materials. These included Gibson's godson Henry Gibson Rivington (1872–1954), Arthur Clifford Fountaine (1875–1931) and Hermon Joseph Bond Cockshutt (1907–1970). In addition to their taught courses, which normally consisted of three months of intensive teaching, Gibson and Weldon also ran correspondence courses for articled clerks working outside London or unable to take time off work to attend in person. Lord Hailsham studied for all his examinations in the early 1930s via their correspondence courses.\n\nIn 1931, ten years after the death of Albert Gibson, the firm was incorporated as a limited liability company, Gibson and Weldon (Law Tutors) Ltd. In 1961 the company was acquired by the Law Society, whose own law school was one of their competitors. The following year, the society merged the two schools into the College of Law with branches in London and Guildford. Hermon Cockshutt, an expert on tax law and the senior partner in Gibson and Weldon after the death of Arthur Weldon in 1943, had been instrumental in the negotiations leading to the firm's acquisition by the Law Society. He became the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the newly formed college. John Widgery, the future Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, was another of Gibson and Weldon's tutors who continued teaching at the newly formed college. Richard Antony Donell (1923–2006), the last of the former partners of Gibson and Weldon on the staff of the College of Law, retired in 1988. Donell had prepared and updated the 21st and final edition of \"Gibson's Conveyancing\".\n\nFormer pupils of Gibson and Weldon include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57882673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57882673", "title": "Japan Act of Specified Commercial Transactions", "text": "Japan Act of Specified Commercial Transactions\n\nDuring the 1970s, Japan experienced an increase in consumer demand and product diversity. Various methods of communication, transportation and delivery became available and competition among retailers intensified. Many of them began to look for ways to increase their customer base by selling at places other than shops. New methods of selling products, such as door-to-door sales and mail order, began to appear. However, ethical standards had not yet been put in place for this new industry, and consumers were not accustomed to these new vending approaches. In many cases, these were the only points of contact between consumers and businesses, and conflicts occurring later on, could not be easily resolved. These conflicts started increasing. Also, during the second half of the 1960s, unethical use of Multi-level Marketing was deemed by lawmakers to cause social problems. To handle these social problems and conflicts, the Act of Specified Commercial Transactions was enacted in 1976 at the 77th assembly of the National Diet of Japan.\n\nThis Japanese law mainly pertains to commercial transactions such as:\n\n\nAs of June 2016, Japanese Laws pertaining to Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) are stated in Articles 33 to 40. Some Regulations from Articles 33, 34 and 36 Regarding Multi-level Marketing (MLM) are outlined below;\n\nAccording to Article 33 Part 2, it is prohibited to solicit without first stating the nature of the MLM business and the coordinator’s name.\n\n\nThere have been cases of MLM solicitors visiting someone’s house, organizing a house party or some alumni reunion, and not being truthful about the purpose of their visit. Those solicitors then skillfully talk people into signing up for MLM, and many cases, people sign up for MLM without knowing about the financial burden they are getting themselves into. Essentially, people are being solicited in spite of the fact that they may not have wanted to be solicited in the first place. Many people may not wish to be solicited perhaps because they have no interest in MLM or are too busy to devote time for MLM. When solicitors visit someone without first announcing the true purpose of the visit, they deny that person the chance to consider if he or she even wants to be solicited in the first place. The purpose of Article 33 Part 2 is to protect the interests of people who may not wish to be solicited.\n\nSolicitors must announce from the start the company name and the name of their coordinator. Further, people who are not familiar with MLM might not realize what kind of business they are about to be solicited for. Thus, solicitors must also announce from the start the amount of money involved. More precisely, solicitors must begin with a statement such as: \"I would like to recruit you for some business in which you will buy (exact amount of money) of health supplements, would you be interested?\"\n\nAccording to Article 34, it is prohibited to misrepresent facts or make false claims regarding prospects of income.\n\n\nIt is illegal to misrepresent facts or make false claims regarding the prospects of making money with MLM. For example, if there is no absolute guarantee of making a certain amount of money, making statements suggesting otherwise amounts to making false claims. Such false claims include statements such as: \"If you join this business, you will make a monthly income in the seven figures\", \"If you do this business for one month you will make more money than a white-collar worker does\".\n\nThe following three cases also amount to making false claims:\n\n\nAccording to Article 34 Section 4, soliciting on private property is prohibited without first declaring one’s true intent.\n\n\nThere have been cases of people signing up for MLM without really intending to, for they were unable to make an informed decision or use rational judgment, partly because they felt cornered by a solicitor who entered a private property without first announcing the intent to solicit. A legal amendment of 2008 now prohibits such act or behaviour.\nExamples of private property include the office of a company, someone’s house, a hotel room, the meeting room of a hotel, the meeting room of a public facility, a karaoke room, and a restaurant rented for a private group for the evening.\nFurther, to begin soliciting in a public space and continue soliciting in a private property also constitutes an act in violation of Article 34. As soon as someone solicits in a private property, he or she is in violation of Article 34. Offenders found in violation of Article 34 face a fine of up to 3 million yen and/or a sentence of up to 3 years in jail.\n\nAccording to Article 36 Part 3, it is prohibited to advertise Multi-level Marketing through e-mail without prior written consent from the e-mail recipient.\n\nConsumer Affairs Agency, Understanding the Act of Specified Commercial Transactions (Japanese) 消費者庁 (2016). 平成28年版　特定商取引に関する法律の解説. Japan: 商事法務. \n"}
{"id": "9877928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9877928", "title": "Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation", "text": "Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation\n\nThe Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) is an independent expert advisory committee of the United Kingdom Department of Health. JCVI was established in 1963 \"To advise the Secretaries of State for Health, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland on matters relating to communicable diseases, preventable and potentially preventable through immunisation.\" The advisory body makes recommendations to the British government concerning vaccination schedules and vaccine safety.\n\nJCVI is recognized as a Departmental Expert Committee in the UK. (Following the Government’s review of public bodies that completed in 2012, JCVI ceased to be an Advisory Non-Departmental Public Body.) It is a statutory expert Standing Advisory Committee established in England and Wales under the National Health Service (NHS) Act 1977, and the NHS Order 1981, as the Standing Advisory Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation. It is also a Sub-Committee of the National Professional Advisory Council covering Scotland.\n\nThe JCVI has a responsibility to provide high quality and considered advice and recommendations to the UK Health Ministers. This includes giving advice on recommendations on matters of both a 'routine' nature and also on any specific or special matters that Ministers may request. In formulating any advice and recommendations, the Committee must take into account the need for and impact of vaccines, the quality of vaccines and the strategies to ensure that their greatest benefit to the public health can be obtained from the most appropriate use of vaccines.\n\nJCVI members meet and report as one Committee usually three times a year. Its recommendations, as accepted by the Secretaries of State, are published in \"Immunisation against infectious diseases\" and also through other routes as necessary (e.g., Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Letters).\n\nThe JCVI chairman is Professor Andrew Pollard of Oxford Vaccine Group in the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Oxford.\n\nThe current members' names and affiliations are published online although year of appointment is not stated. According to the published code of practice appointments are normally of three years duration. In accordance with the Code of Practice issued by the Commissioner for Public Appointments, members cannot serve on the Committee for more than 10 years.\n\nThe JCVI has firmly endorsed the efficacy and safety of the MMR vaccine. Among many developments, in February, 1988, fifteen experts and officials met in the UK to discuss adverse events reported after the administration of the vaccines which contained the attenuated Urabe mumps virus strain. According to JCVI's minutes, the group \"read a report of cases of mumps encephalitis which had been associated with MMR vaccine containing the Urabe strain of the mumps virus.\"\n\nThe JCVI \"expressed concern\" about giving triple vaccines to children with a personal or family history of convulsions, but considered it appropriate to proceed with a planned introduction of the MMR vaccine in October 1988, including two products containing Urabe strain. After the start of the mass MMR immunisation programme, additional evidence that the strain was linked with viral meningitis surfaced in a number of countries, and by 1990, many had withdrawn products containing it. In November 1992, it was withdrawn in the UK, following the publication of government-sponsored research which confirmed a high incidence of transitory mild meningtis. Since that time, government agencies have acted to prevent the importation of single vaccines containing this strain.\n\nIn 2001, Andrew Wakefield published what he said were his concerns in the \"Journal of Adverse Drug and Toxicological Reviews\" commenting on early studies of MMR, none of which were critical of the vaccine. The article was reviewed by the JCVI, which unequivocally rejected Wakefield's claims, with government agencies publishing a detailed rebuttal.\nIn 2010 Andrew Wakefield was struck off by the General Medical Council for fabrication of results and failure to declare a financial interest in the importation of single strain vaccines. In 2011 The British Medical Journal ran articles over 3 weeks documenting his fraud and criticising The Lancet editor for delay in accepting evidence of fraud and withdrawing the publication.\n\nAs is the case in the United States and many other countries, the mercury-based additive thimerosal, previously thought necessary for multi-dose vials of vaccines such as the DPT shot, has largely been phased out. According to the JCVI, it has been shown that the amount of mercury in the blood of children receiving thimerosal-containing vaccines is well below levels that may be \"associated with any toxic effects.\" Reports reviewed by the JCVI contend that mercury exposure in the UK immunisation programme is low. However, JCVI endorsed recommendations to remove the preservative \"even though there is no evidence of toxicity, as a precautionary measure, thiomersal should be phased out over time...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13170237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13170237", "title": "Jure uxoris", "text": "Jure uxoris\n\nJure uxoris is a Latin phrase meaning \"by right of (his) wife\". When a man uses a title of nobility because his wife holds it \"suo jure\" (\"in her own right\"), the man is said to hold the title \"jure uxoris\". Similarly, the husband of an heiress could become the legal possessor of her lands. For example, married women in England were legally incapable of owning real estate until the Married Women's Property Act 1882.\n\nKings who ruled \"jure uxoris\" are not to be confused with kings consort, who were merely consorts of their wives, not co-rulers.\n\nDuring the feudal era, the husband's control over his wife's real property, including titles, was substantial. At the point of marriage, the husband gained the right to possess his wife's land during the marriage, including any acquired after the marriage. Whilst he did not gain the formal legal title to the lands, he was able to spend the rents and profits of the land and sell his right, even if the wife protested.\n\nThe concept of \"jure uxoris\" was standard in the Middle Ages even for queens regnant. In the Kingdom of Jerusalem, Fulk, King of Jerusalem, Guy of Lusignan, Conrad of Montferrat, Henry II, Count of Champagne and Amalric II of Jerusalem all received their titles as a result of marriage.\n\nSigismund of Luxembourg married Queen Mary of Hungary and obtained the crown through her, retaining it after her death. After the death of Sigismund, Albert II of Austria inherited the throne of Hungary by marrying the king's daughter Elizabeth of Luxembourg.\n\nA king \"jure uxoris\" could remain king even after the death or divorce of his wife. When the marriage of Marie I of Boulogne and Matthew of Boulogne was annulled in 1170, Marie ceased to be countess, while Matthew I continued to reign until 1173. In some cases, the kingdom could pass to the husband's heirs, even when they were not issue of the wife in question (cf. Jogaila, who became king by marrying Jadwiga and passed on the kingdom to his children with Sophia of Halshany).\n\nKings \"jure uxoris\" in the medieval era include:\n\nBy the time of the Renaissance, attitudes had changed in some countries: a woman sometimes remained monarch, with only part of her power transferred to her husband. This was usually the case when multiple kingdoms were consolidated, such as when Isabella and Ferdinand shared crowns.\n\nThe precedent of \"jure uxoris\" complicated the lives of Henry VIII's daughters, both of whom inherited the throne in their own right. The marriage of Mary I to King Philip was commonly seen as an attempt to bring England under the influence of Catholic Spain, with the Act for the Marriage of Queen Mary to Philip of Spain being designed specifically to prevent Philip from seizing power \"jure uxoris\". This tactic in the end ensured Elizabeth I's accession; she, in turn, resolved concerns over \"jus uxoris\" by never marrying. In Navarre, Jeanne d'Albret had married Antoine of Navarre in 1548, and she became queen regnant at her father's death in 1555. Antoine was crowned co-ruler \"jure uxoris\" with Jeanne in August.\n\nIn Great Britain, husbands acted on their wives' behalf in the House of Lords, from which women were once barred. These offices were exercised \"jure uxoris\".\n\nWhen Lady Priscilla Bertie inherited the title Baroness Willougby de Eresby in 1780, she also held the position of Lord Great Chamberlain. However, her husband Sir Peter Gwydyr acted on her behalf in that office instead.\n\nIn Portugal, a male consort could not become a king \"jure uxoris\" until the queen regnant had a child and royal heir. Although Queen Maria II married her second husband in 1836, Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha did not become King Ferdinand II until 1837, when their first child was born. Queen Maria's first husband, Auguste of Beauharnais, never became monarch, because he died before he could father an heir. The queen's child did not have to be born after her accession. For example, Queen Maria I already had children by her husband when she acceded, so he became King Peter III at the moment of his wife's accession.\n\n, although he is not technically entitled to it under the law. For example, Jaime de Marichalar was often referred to as the Duke of Lugo during his marriage to Infanta Elena, Duchess of Lugo. After their divorce, he ceased to use the title. His brother-in-law Iñaki Urdangarin was referred to as the Duke of Palma before corruption allegations prompted the King to take action. Since 12 June 2015, he is no longer referred to as the Duke of Palma de Mallorca, following the removal of that title from his wife, Infanta Cristina.\n\n"}
{"id": "25307772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25307772", "title": "Karl Albert von Kamptz", "text": "Karl Albert von Kamptz\n\nFreiherr Karl Albert Christoph Heinrich von Kamptz (16 September 1769 in Schwerin - 3 November 1849 in Berlin) was a German jurist.\n\nKamptz's parents were the later Mecklenburg-Strelitz Minister Albrecht von Kamptz (1741-1816) and his wife Louise Friederike Amalie (born von Dorne). From October 1787 he studied law, first at the Friedrich University Bützow, then from 1788 to 1790 at the Georg August University of Göttingen. After preparatory service as assessor, he was appointed head of the school commission and speaker at the secret council and government in Neustrelitz. In 1794 he resigned from the civil service. On the Mecklenburg state parliament on 19 November 1798 he was elected by the knighthood to the ordinary assessor of the court and district court in Güstrow; He was appointed on February 27, 1802 by the Swedish-Pomeranian knighthood assessor at the Wismar Tribunal. On 2 September 1804, he was presented to the Prussian court, under appointment as chamberlain, to the Kurbrandenburg due Assessorat at the Imperial Chamber Court in Wetzlar. On March 27, 1805, after passing the examination, he was appointed a member of the highest court of the Old Reich - the last appointment of any member before the revocation of the Imperial Court in 1806 in the wake of the dissolution of the German Reich Constitution.\n\nHe turned down an appointment as Vice President of the Württemberg Supreme Judicial College in Stuttgart. He remained until 1809 as a pensioner in Wetzlar and participated in the settlement business of the court. This included a fierce and publicly conducted argument with the former procurator Philipp Jacob von Gülich, who had been taken over in the Mecklenburg judicial service. In 1809 he returned to Neustrelitz; the following year, as Prussian chamberlain, he led the body of Queen Luise to Prussia and in 1811 found a position there at the Berlin Court of Appeals, where he worked as a member of the Oberappellationssenats. His other career led Kamptz on the Office of the Executive Director of the Ministry of Police (1817) and First Director of the Ministry of Justice (1825) to the appointment of the Real Secret Minister of State and Justice in 1832. In addition to his post as police director in the Interior Ministry, he was also later in 1822 head of the teaching department in the Ministry of Culture. In 1829, the Academy of non-profit sciences took Erfurt Kamptz as a member and elected him in 1829 as its president. As such, Kamptz became the successor of Count Dorotheus Ludwig von Keller. In 1848 Kamptz resigned from this office. On the occasion of its 50th anniversary, the city of Berlin honored Kamptz with the award of honorary citizenship.\n\nThroughout his life, Kamptz was very conservative, which earned him the shameful name \"liberal-eaters\" in the press. The writer E. T. A. Hoffmann caricatured Kamptz in his work Master Floh as \"police crook Knarrpanti\". Kamptz especially excelled in the pursuit of the \"Jacobin\" activities and the burning of books at the Wartburg Festival in 1817 in the Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach. In addition to Klemens Wenzel Lothar von Metternich, he was one of the toughest opponents and pursuers of the freedom of press issued there in 1816 under Grand Duke Carl August. Not only in the literature, but also in the contemporary liberal press Kamptz opposed strong resistance. Thus, Friedrich Förster polemicized in 1818 in the journal Nemesis as a result of the Wartburg Festival clearly against Kamptz. The stumbling block is the position paper published by Kamptz in the Yearbooks of the Prussian Legislature, \"Discussion, as he calls it, 'on the public-burning of pamphlets.'\" Kamptz, evidently cleared by the public burning of his Codex Gensd. In his essay, armerie \"personally offended\" attacks the event on the Wartburg and argues (not only legally) for the prosecution and punishment of such acts. Kamptz considers that \"the theoretical masters of the state are just as harmful to the state as the political professors are to the sciences,\" Förster quoted him, and calling for reference to the Spanish Inquisition, \"That they [burn] for all, especially faithless and shameful crimes, eg. It should be introduced, for example, for the works of public teachers and histrion (sic) Which have been employed by the state to make young citizens faithful citizens and servicemen, but do not fulfill that provision, but at an early age they are poisoned by their demagogic principles breathe! \"These words clearly aimed against the political professors in Jena, specifically against the \"Histrion\" Luden, one of the most important \"spiritus rectores\" of the Jenaer Urbschenschaft. In addition to the polemical correction of Förster, \"Histriones\" had been actors in Rome, \"who appeared in the oldest Possenspielen the Romans, Satyra and Mimus,\" and not, as Kamptz uses it, historians, he comments on the demand of Prussia: \"He likes to build a pyre, heretical works and heretics to throw in the flames\".\n\nNevertheless, Kamptz condemns the burning of \"permitted\" writings as \"iniuria\". Forester replies to the lawyer Kamptz: \"The author seems to know neither what Iniurie, nor what crude Iniurie is, nor what Iniurien punished by official channels, otherwise he would certainly immediately instruct the Grand Ducal-Weimar court authorities of their office.\"\n\nThe Berlin tailoring revolution of 1830 was directed less at the King, but rather, as the historian Ilja Mieck writes, at the reactionary clique of Wittgenstein and Kamptz, for their non-compliance with the royal constitutional promises made.\n\nOn December 30, 1802 in Prützen Hedwig, he married Susanna Luzia, b. von Bulow (born May 25, 1783, † August 13, 1847), a daughter of the Droste Friedrich Christian von Bülow on Prützen, Hägerfelde, Mühlengeez and Critzow, and the Hedwig Heilwig, b. from Behr to Nustrow. The couple had four children: Hedwig Louise Friderika Albertine (1803-1868), married in his first marriage to the Pomeranian President Wilhelm von Bonin (1786-1852), in his second marriage to General Otto von Bonin (1795-1862); Friedrich Albert Carl Anton (1805-1833), Heilwig Maria Sophia Florina (1806-1807) and (Albert) Ludwig (Florus Hans) (1810-1884).\n\nOn the basis of various indications, family researchers consider it possible that Kamptz was the biological father of the prehistorian, archivist and conservator Georg Christian Friedrich Lisch. In 1838 Kamptz was elected a member of the Leopoldina.\n\n"}
{"id": "2472783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472783", "title": "Law reform", "text": "Law reform\n\nLaw reform or legal reform is the process of examining existing laws, and advocating and implementing changes in a legal system, usually with the aim of enhancing justice or efficiency.\n\nIntimately related are law reform bodies or law commissions, which are organizations set up to facilitate law reform. Law reform bodies carry out research and recommend ways to simplify and modernize the law. Many law reform bodies are statutory corporations set up by governments, although they are usually independent from government control, providing intellectual independence to accurately reflect and report on how the law should progress.\n\nLaw reform activities can include preparation and presentation of cases in court in order to change the common law; lobbying of government officials in order to change legislation; and research or writing that helps to establish an empirical basis for other law reform activities.\n\nThe four main methods in reforming law are repeal (get rid of a law), creation of new law, consolidation (change existing law) and codification.\n\nThe expression \"law reform\" is used in a number of senses and some of these are close to being wholly incompatible with each other.\n\nIn the Law Reform Commission Act 1975, the expression \"reform\" includes, in relation to the law or a branch of the law, its development, its codification (including in particular its simplification and modernisation) and the revision and consolidation of statute law, and kindred words must be construed accordingly.\n\nJudicial reform is the complete or partial political reform of a country's judiciary. Judicial reform is often done as a part of wider reform of the country's political system or a legal reform. The President of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, Valery Zorkin, gives in his article, \"Twelve Theses on Legal Reform in Russia\", first published in Russian magazine \"Legislation and Economics\", N. 2, 2004 an explained correlation between legal and judicial reform: \"Complete legal reform should normally include not only judicial reform, but also reform of various aspects of the structural system and content of legislation, legal education, legal awareness by the population, and also the corporate consciousness of the whole legal community. Judicial reform usually aims to improve such things as law courts, procuracies, advocacy (bar), inquest, executory processes, and record keeping.\" .\n\nLegal reform can be the driver for all other reforms, including reform of the economy. A true market economy cannot be created without ensuring both full guarantees of private property and transparent predictability for entrepreneurial activity, on the one hand; and sufficiently reasonable legal control over economic processes, on the other hand. Legal reform should be an integral part of any on-going reform process. Legal reform is a tool for implementing necessary reforms, to balance competing interests, create a dynamic and sustainable economy, and build a sustainable civil society. During last decades the judiciary became active in economic issues related with economic rights established by constitution because \"economics may provide insight into questions that bear on the proper legal interpretation\". Since many a country with a transitional political and economic system continues treating its constitution as an abstract legal document disengaged from the economic policy of the state, practice of judicial review of economic acts of executive and legislative branches became to grow.\n\nThe budget of the judiciary in many transitional and developing countries is completely controlled by the executive. The latter undermines the separation of powers, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. The proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary is subject of the constitutional economics. It is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the state (through budget planning and various privileges), and the private.\n\nIn modern Russia, aspects and directions of development of judicial reform were formulated in the Judicial Reform Concept, enacted by the Russian Parliament on October 24, 1991. This document still remains legally valid and applicable.\n\nValery Zorkin stressed that \"the separation of powers principle, also proclaimed in the Constitution of the Russian Federation, requires observance of judicial independence. And such independence requires proper funding of the courts and their activities. It is well known that Russian courts remain under-funded. However, the cumulative economic costs suffered by both state and private enterprises as the result of under-performance by various judicial institutions, especially by the courts of general jurisdiction and the arbitration courts, is at least twice the order of magnitude as the financial burden carried by the state and society in financing such judicial institutions. The elimination of under-funding of the courts would definitely improve the efficiency of their work and be worthwhile.\n\nTaking into account the specifics of historical developments in Russia, one may assert that without undertaking a large-scale legal reform it would be extremely difficult to succeed concurrently with judicial reform. It is necessary now to start unfolding a full-scale legal reform, which has to be completed by the year 2020. The official public presentation and implementation of such legal reform should become the prime responsibility of executive and legislative authorities. The program of legal reform needs to be adopted in the form of a legislative act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1729697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1729697", "title": "Lenslok", "text": "Lenslok\n\nLenslok is a copy protection mechanism found in some computer games and other software on the 8-bit Atari computers, Commodore 64, Sinclair ZX Spectrum, Sinclair QL, MSX and Amstrad CPC. The most well-known game to use it was \"Elite\" for the ZX Spectrum.\n\nLenslok was released in 1985 as a plastic lens in a foldaway frame. The Lenslok device was essentially a row of prisms arranged vertically in a plastic holder. Before the game started, a two-letter code was displayed on the screen, but it was corrupted by being split into vertical bands which were then rearranged on screen. By viewing these bands through the Lenslok they were restored to their correct order and the code could be read and entered allowing access to the game. The device was small enough when folded flat to fit next to an audio cassette in a standard case.\n\nIn order for the Lenslok to work correctly the displayed image has to be the correct size. This meant that before each use the software needed to be calibrated to take account of the size of the display. Users found this setup particularly annoying, at least in part because they found the instructions that were initially shipped unclear. Additionally, the device could not be calibrated at all for very large and very small televisions, and some games shipped with mismatched Lensloks that prevented the code from being correctly descrambled. The Lenslok system was not used in later releases of \"Elite\".\n\nThe Lenslok copy protection system for the Commodore 64 version of Elite was very easy to bypass because a bug existed where the letters 'A' and 'D' were always the first combination generated by Lenslok. A simple crack, where the letters were input during the copy protection check by adding a few lines of machine language code, was effective in defeating Lenslok.\n\nDan Whitehead of \"Eurogamer\" explains that Lenslok was difficult to operate with difficult instructions, requiring recalibrations, and sometimes didn't work at all, including with screen sizes too large or too small. Whitehead notes that the \"problems with Lenslok were undoubtedly exaggerated\". Pavel Barter of \"GamesRadar\" similarly notes that Lenslok didn't work on some screens. In the end, Lenslok was used only on 11 releases.\n\nSoftware that used the Lenslok system:\n\n\nProduct key\n\n"}
{"id": "221045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221045", "title": "List of law schools in Canada", "text": "List of law schools in Canada\n\nThis is a list of law schools and law faculties in Canada.\n\nCanada is mostly a common law jurisdiction. However, the province of Quebec uses the civil law system for private law matters. As a result, Quebec's French-language law schools are exclusively civil law schools, and typically possess additional language requirements.\n\nGenerally, entry into law programs in Canada is based primarily on a combination of the student's previous grades as well as, for English-language common-law programs, their score on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT). Factors such as specialized degrees, work experience, community involvement, personal character, extracurricular activities and references are sometimes taken into account, for which the Universities of Calgary, Windsor and McGill's holistic law school admissions are well known, but the LSAT remains far more determinative of admission than comparable standardized tests for other disciplines, such as the MCAT or GMAT. Quebec law schools, including the dual-curriculum, bilingual McGill University Faculty of Law, do not require applicants to write the LSAT, although any scores are generally taken into account; nor do the French-language common-law programs at the Université de Moncton École de droit and University of Ottawa Faculty of Law.\n\nAll of Canada's law schools are affiliated with public universities, and are thus public institutions. This practice has been held to have helped reduce disparities in the quality of students and instruction as between the schools. Since there is a limited number of positions in each law school's annual admissions, entry to all Canadian law schools is intensely competitive: most law schools receive far more applicants than they can accommodate. Most schools focus on their respective regions, and many graduates remain in the region in which the school is located, though the relatively uniform quality of the law schools affords greater geographic mobility to graduates.\n\nAfter completing the Juris Doctor, LL.B., or B.C.L. , students must article for about a year (in Quebec, the six-month \"stage\" is the equivalent to articling); this can be a challenge for those with lower grades, as there are often a shortage of articling positions, and completion of articles is required to be able to practice law in Canada. Articling involves on-the-job training, at a lower introductory salary, under the supervision of a lawyer licensed by the Provincial Bar who has been practising for a minimum of 5 years. After ten to sixteen months of articling and call to the bar, lawyers are free to practice in their own right: many are hired by the same lawyer or firm for which they articled, while some choose to begin independent practices or accept positions with different employers. Others may leave the private practice of law to work in government or industry as a lawyer or in a law-related position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25876209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25876209", "title": "Marshall Islands–Federated States of Micronesia Maritime Boundary Treaty", "text": "Marshall Islands–Federated States of Micronesia Maritime Boundary Treaty\n\nThe Marshall Islands – Federated States of Micronesia Maritime Boundary Treaty is a 2006 treaty between the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) that delimits the maritime boundary between the two countries.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Majuro on 5 July 2006. The boundary set out by the treaty consists of ten straight-line maritime segments defined by 11 specific coordinate points in the ocean between the two island countries. The treaty was signed by FSM President Joseph J. Urusemal and Marshall Islands President Kessai Note.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Treaty between the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands concerning Maritime Boundaries and Cooperation on Related matters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11595417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11595417", "title": "Melvin Clark George", "text": "Melvin Clark George\n\nMelvin Clark (or \"Clarke\") George (May 13, 1849 – February 22, 1933) was a U.S. Representative from Oregon.\n\nHe was born near Caldwell, Ohio to Presley and Mahala Nickerson George. He moved with his parents over the Oregon Trail in 1851 and settled on a homestead near Lebanon in Linn County, Oregon. In Oregon he attended country schools, then Santiam Academy, and finally Willamette University in Salem. \n\nHe served as principal of the Albany schools and the Jefferson Institute in what would become Jefferson. He studied law, and was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in Portland in 1875.\n\nIn 1873, he married Mary Eckler, with whom he had three children.\n\nGeorge served as member of the Oregon State Senate from Multnomah County from 1876 to 1880. In 1880, he was elected as a Republican to Oregon's At-large congressional district in the United States House of Representatives, defeating incumbent John Whiteaker by 1,397 votes. In 1882, he defeated Democrat William D. Fenton by 3,365 votes to become the first Oregon congressman to be re-elected to a second term. During his term in Congress, George promoted construction of jetties at the mouth of the Columbia River. He did not seek a third term in 1884.\n\nFollowing his term in Congress, George served as a professor of medical jurisprudence at Willamette University from 1885 to 1889. He served on the Portland school board, and then in 1891, was appointed chairman of the Portland bridge commission, which sought to provide free bridges throughout the city. In this capacity, George oversaw the construction of the Burnside Bridge. George Park in the St. Johns neighborhood of Portland is named in his honor.\n\nGeorge also served as a Multnomah circuit court judge from 1897 to 1905, and then practiced law in Portland until his death in Portland on February 22, 1933. He is interred at Lone Fir Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "2628519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628519", "title": "Neo-prohibitionism", "text": "Neo-prohibitionism\n\nNeo-prohibitionism (also spelled neoprohibitionism and neo-Prohibitionism) is a current movement to attempt to stop consumption of alcohol in society through legislation and policies which further restrict the sale, possession, and marketing of alcohol in order to reduce average per capita consumption and change social norms to reduce its acceptability.\n\nThe term is usually used critically to describe groups or individuals, rather than by the groups or individuals themselves. For example, Candy Lightner, the founder of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), eventually left the organization in anger and has since gone on to criticize it as neo-prohibitionist, stating that MADD \"has become far more neo-prohibitionist than I had ever wanted or envisioned … I didn't start MADD to deal with alcohol. I started MADD to deal with the issue of drunk driving\". Lightner was criticizing MADD's leaders who had called for the criminalization of all driving after drinking any amount of alcoholic beverage.\n\nIn Europe, the World Health Organization in 1992 launched a so-called Alcohol Action Plan that aimed at a continuous reduction of the per capita consumption; this attempt was criticized as \"crypto-prohibitionism\" and finally it failed.\n\nThe concept of neo-prohibitionism has been used and studied by scholars at George Mason University, Ohio State University,\nBrown University, Indiana University, the University of Houston, the University of Western Ontario, the University of California, San Diego, Washington University in St. Louis, the School of Public Health at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Kean University.\n\n"}
{"id": "21573402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21573402", "title": "Office of National Narcotics Intelligence", "text": "Office of National Narcotics Intelligence\n\nThe Office of National Narcotics Intelligence (ONNI) was a United States' federal law enforcement agency under the Justice Department that dealt in analysis of illegal drugs and was tasked to develop a National Narcotics Intelligence System. It conducted analysis only and had no operational responsibilities. Liaison was conducted with CIA and NSA. ONNI was founded in August 1972 under order of President Richard M. Nixon. The agency was headed by former FBI Assistant to the Director (third position in FBI after Director and Deputy Director) William C. Sullivan until ONNI was consolidated into the newly created Drug Enforcement Administration in July 1973 (along with the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, the Office of Drug Abuse Law Enforcement, some Customs officers. Waldo H. Dubberstein, who worked in ONNI's Analysis Division, had been head of all Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) analysis for the Middle East and South Asia, committed suicide in April 1983 after being indicted for selling classified DIA intelligence reports to Libya. It also helped set up information systems and analytical operations for the EU. \n\n"}
{"id": "1882447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882447", "title": "One Penn Plaza", "text": "One Penn Plaza\n\nOne Penn Plaza (1 Penn Plaza) is a skyscraper in New York City, located between 33rd Street and 34th Street, west of Seventh Avenue, and adjacent to Pennsylvania Station and Madison Square Garden. It is the tallest building in the Pennsylvania Plaza complex of office buildings, hotels, and entertainment facilities.\n\nThe skyscraper was designed by Kahn & Jacobs and completed in 1972. It reaches with 57 floors. The tower has three setbacks at 7th, 14th, and 55th floors. From its location on the west side of Manhattan, most south, west and north-facing tenants have unobstructed views of the Hudson River.\n\nOne Penn Plaza is currently owned by Vornado Realty Trust. It was previously owned by Helmsley-Spear Inc., which sold the building for $420 million in the late 1990s.\n\nIn 2009, plans were made to install a cogeneration plant in order to heat the building more efficiently. By 2010, it was reported that when the new plant was activated, it nearly cut the building's carbon output in half.\n\nMore than 80 percent of the action in the 2011 independent film \"Margin Call\" was shot on the 42nd floor of the building, which had recently been vacated by a trading firm.\n\nOne Penn Plaza is built with structural steel and concrete, with grey solar glass and anodized aluminum on the outside walls.\n\nThe building has 14 entrances and 44 elevators in seven banks. An underground parking garage provides 695 spaces for cars and is accessible from both 33rd and 34th Streets. Direct passageways at each end of the building provide underground connections to the Long Island Rail Road concourse of Pennsylvania Station, which is located one block to the south. The ground floor is leased to several commercial tenants, including the top floor of a , three-story K-Mart store (formerly occupied by Woolworth), and a restaurant.\n\nA public plaza and fountain are located on the west end of the building. Unlike traditional fountains, steam is dispensed in the winter and fog is dispensed in the summer to prevent water from splashing out during gusty wind conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48468168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48468168", "title": "Oregon Equality Act", "text": "Oregon Equality Act\n\nThe Oregon Equality Act is a law of the U.S. state of Oregon which prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in employment, housing, public accommodations, and other categories. Enacted in 2007, it became effective in 2008.\n\nThe act passed during the 74th Oregon Legislative Assembly. Senate Bill 2 was introduced on March 5, 2007 in the Oregon Senate, where it was approved on March 21 in a 21–7 vote. The Oregon House of Representatives amended the bill and voted 35–25 to approve it on April 17. The Oregon Senate voted 19–7 on April 19 to approve the amended bill. Governor Ted Kulongoski signed it on May 9, 2007 along with the Oregon Family Fairness Act, and it took effect on January 1, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2904478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2904478", "title": "Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856", "text": "Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856\n\nThe Imperial Reform Edict (, \"Islâhat Hatt-ı Hümâyûnu\"; Modern ) was a February 18, 1856 edict of the Ottoman government and part of the Tanzimat reforms. The decree from Sultan Abdülmecid I promised equality in education, government appointments, and administration of justice to all regardless of creed. The decree is often seen as a result of the influence of France and Britain, which assisted the Ottoman Empire against the Russians during the Crimean War (1853–1856) and the Treaty of Paris (1856) which ended the war.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun was a promise by the Sultan to his citizens, subjects. Sultan promised to be held responsible for the constitution of the \"Provincial Councils\" and \"Communal Councils\" and the fairness of this process and the results. In matters concerning all the subjects of the State (related with Hatt-ı Hümayun), the spiritual leader of every congregation, along with its official appointed for one year by the government, will participate in the negotiations of `Meclisi Valay-i Ahkam-i Adliyye', a law court established in 1837 to deal with cases of high officials. Sultan also promised (personal judge of fairness) the freedom of voting in the councils. \n\nThese goals are promised by the Sultan and the final consideration is in him; in meaning Hatt-ı Hümayun is the Sultan's ideas.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun \"unites all the previous reforms\" (beginning with Edict of Gülhane) and applies previous reform to all the subjects of the Empire, without distinction of class or religion, for the security of their persons and property and the preservation of their honor.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun did not release the government from its previous obligations; spiritual immunities (Christian millets or other non-Muslim protectorates). Regarding these responsibilities review process established under each millet such that they form a commission composed ad hoc of members of its own body to give formulate (discuss) and submit the reforms required by the progress of Ottoman civilization.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that all forms of religion freely worshiped, no subject hindered in the exercise of the religion, nor be in any way annoyed. No one shall be compelled to change their religion.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun brought accountability, such that the Patriarchs, Metropolitans, Archbishops, Bishops, and Rabbis began to take an oath on their entrance into office according to a form agreed upon (content of the oath is verified by the state), which they will be responsible for honoring their oath. In to build trust (prevent bribery); the income of these people (in public work) is replaced by fixed revenues of the Patriarchs and heads of communities, and by the allocation of allowances and salaries equitably proportioned to the importance, the rank, and the dignity of the different members of the clergy.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted the full freedom of the repair, according to their original plan, of buildings set apart for religious worship, for schools, for hospitals, and for cemeteries; if these activities are performed at \"non-mixed communities\" under the towns, small boroughs and villages. To prevent the destruction of historical architectures, and keep track of public investments the plans of these different buildings, in case of their new erection, must, after having been approved by the Patriarchs or heads of communities, be submitted to Imperial order, or make known its observations upon them within a certain time.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that each community have equal power on the repair according to the original plan of the buildings for religious worship, schools, hospitals, and cemeteries; only if these activities are performed at \"mixed communities\" of the towns, small boroughs and villages. The authorities (decision making) in mixed populations use imperial system to pronounce a sovereign decision (imperial system visioned as a buffer).\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted the government the responsibility of the formation of roads and canals to increase the facilities of communication and the sources of the wealth.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted the organization of new Code to determine how the works of public utility can be supported (raised from private and special taxes levied in the provinces). These funds could only be used to benefit of the establishment of ways of communication by land and sea.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that all the subjects, without distinction, shall be received into the Civil and Military Schools. Every community is authorized to establish Public Schools of Science, Art, and Industry. However, in these public schools the methods of instruction and the choice of professors in schools of this class shall be under the control of a \"Mixed Council of Public Instruction (Council of Public Instruction)\" (Education ministry).\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that all commercial, correctional, and criminal suits between Muslims and Christian or other non-Muslim subjects, or between Christians or other non-Muslims of different sects, shall be referred to \"mixed tribunals\". The proceedings were in public. The parties were confronted. Production of witnesses was granted which the testimonies were accepted upon an oath. Suits relating to civil affairs publicly tried. Civil affairs resolved before the Mixed Provincial Councils with the Governor and Judge.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that there will be formulation of the new Codes; penal, correctional, and commercial laws, and rules of procedure and they were translated and published in all the languages.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that the reform of the penitentiary (houses of detention, punishment, or correction) and other establishments. Activities had to reconcile the rights of humanity and with those of justice. Corporal punishment is abolished administered.\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun granted that police organization (policies and regulations) can not deny the guarantees for the safety of person and property. After the revision (defines a commission) officers are responsible. The police force was organized in capital, provincial towns and in the rural districts in separate organizations.\n\nAlthough the goal of the Hatt-ı Hümayun was to bring equality among Ottoman citizens, the process was perceived more as one intended to please Europe. The biggest change was the Ottoman State's acceptance of the notion of \"minorities\". Previously, Muslim government organizations (civil and military schools) begin to accept non-Muslim citizens. The official state language principle (Ottoman Turkish for written communication) was broken, and the Empire became a multi-language system. Patriarchates began to administer justice on the state level, which could be said to weaken the judicial sovereignty of the State.\n\nSome rules were cheered by the Non-Muslims\nSome rules were not cheered by the Non-Muslims\n\nHatt-ı Hümayun in bringing equality among (millet), created a discontent to the Armenian Patriarchate. Before the Hatt-ı Hümayun Armenian Patriarch was not only the spiritual leader of the community, but its secular leader (all Armenians, Armenian nation) as well. The Armenians (\"Armenian nationals\") wanted to abolish oppression by the nobility, and draw up a new `National Regulation', which limited the powers of Patriarch whose jurisdiction was extended to 50 regions and could at will dismiss the Bishops. Finally the Council accepted the draft regulation on May 24, 1860, and presented it to the Babiali. The Babiali ratified it with some minor changes, with a firman on March 17, 1863, and made it effective. In 1863 the Armenian National Constitution (Ottoman Turkish:\"Nizâmnâme-i Millet-i Ermeniyân\") was Ottoman Empire approved form of the \"Code of Regulations\" composed of 150 articles drafted by the \"Armenian intelligentsia\", which defined the powers of Patriarch (position in Ottoman Millet) and newly formed \"Armenian National Assembly\". Armenian Patriarch with the sharing of his powers with the Armenian National Assembly and limitations brought by Armenian National Constitution perceived the changes as erosion of its community.\n\nDuring the fall of the Ottoman Empire, foreign powers often influenced the government by means of foreign loans and aid as well as exploitation of the millet system and its groups of Jewish and Christian minorities.\n\n\n Selim Deringil, Bogazici University\n"}
{"id": "2015214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015214", "title": "Overpopulation in domestic pets", "text": "Overpopulation in domestic pets\n\nOverpopulation in domestic pets is the surplus of pets, such as cats, dogs, and exotic animals. In the United States, a 6 to 8 million animals are brought to shelters each year, of which an estimated 3 to 4 million are subsequently euthanized, including 2.7 million considered healthy and adoptable. Euthanasia numbers have declined from the 1970s, when U.S. shelters euthanized an estimated 12 to 20 million animals. Most humane societies, animal shelters and rescue groups urge animal caregivers to have their animals spayed or neutered to prevent the births of unwanted and accidental litters that could contribute to this dynamic.\n\nDealing with a population of unwanted domestic animals is a major concern to animal welfare and animal rights groups. Domestic animal overpopulation can also be an ecological concern. It is also a financial problem: capturing, impounding and eventual euthanasia costs taxpayers and private agencies millions of dollars each year. Unwanted pets are also commonly released to the wild, sometimes contributing to severe damage to ecosystems (e.g., the effect of introduction of exotic snakes to Florida's Everglades).\n\nIn Bahrain the number of stray dogs has been increasing since early 2000s with the situation getting out of hand in late 2010s which caused a lot of controversy regarding the case from people claiming to be bothered and attacked by stray dogs and stray dogs puppies being inhumanely murdered (or burned). On the other hand, since 2014 an act has been put by the Bahrain Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (BSPCA) and made a plea to the government to help keep the Catch, Neuter and Return programme (CNVR) running. Frequent attacks on farms also happened, Sheikha Marwa bint Abdulrahman Al Khalifa also contributed to the case and decided to build a shelter (welfare) for the strays to neuter and rehabilitate them to prevent further attacks while also cooperating with the Bahrain stray dogs society group.\n\nThe Canadian Federation of Humane Societies (CFHS) has been collecting statistics from Canadian animal shelters since 1993. A survey in 2013 included data from 100 of 186 humane societies and SPCAs. However, municipal animal services agencies were not included, hence \"the data in this report represents only a fraction of homeless companion animals in Canada.\" In 2012, the surveyed shelters took in just over 188,000 animals, and euthanized 65,423 animals, representing 35% of all intakes. Six times as many cats were euthanized as dogs, or 41% of cats and 15% of dogs. The report said a gradually improving trend, but that cats have a far worse outcome than dogs: \"More than twice as many cats enter shelters than dogs, and though adoption rates for cats are similar to those for dogs, fewer cats are reclaimed and many more are euthanized.\"\n\nEstimates of animals brought to shelters and of animals subsequently euthanized in the U.S. have issues with their reliability. The Humane Society of the United States provides shelter statistics with this caution: \"There is no central data reporting system for U.S. animal shelters and rescues. These estimates are based on information provided by the (former) National Council on Pet Population Study and Policy.\" The HSUS provided numbers of 6 to 8 million animals taken to shelters, 3 to 4 million animals euthanized, and 2.7 million of the euthanized animals being healthy and adoptable, as estimates for 2012-2013, and also for annual figures in an August 2014 article.\n\nThe National Council on Pet Population Study and Policy conducted a survey over four years, 1994-1997, and cautions against the use of their survey for wider estimates: \"It is not possible to use these statistics to estimate the numbers of animals entering animal shelters in the United States, or the numbers euthanized on an annual basis. The reporting Shelters may not represent a random sampling of U.S. shelters.\" Summary statistics from the survey said that in 1997, 4.3 million animals entered the surveyed shelters; the shelters euthanized 62.6% of them, or 2.8 million animals. These numbers broke down to 56.4% of dogs euthanized, and 71% of cats. The original survey was sent to 5,042 shelters housing at least 100 dogs and cats each year, of whom only 1,008 shelters participated in 1997.\n\nThe American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals provides alternate numbers, saying that there are about 13,600 community animal shelters in the US. \"There is no national organization monitoring these shelters\", and \"no government institution or animal organization is responsible for tabulating national statistics for the animal protection movement.\" However, national estimates are provided of 7.6 million animals entering shelters each year, with 2.7 million of them euthanized.\n\nThe American Humane Association said the difficulties in estimating numbers, and provides a higher figure, saying that in 2008, an estimated 3.7 million animals were euthanized in shelters.\n\nA 1993 study of US dog populations considered a wider range of sources than animal shelters. The study found that 4 million dogs entered shelters, with 2.4 million (or 60%) euthanized (p. 203).\n\nUnwanted dogs and cats may have been acquired from any source. Large numbers of animals are placed in shelters by pet owners each year for reasons such as moving, allergies, behavioral problems, and lack of time or money, or the pet animal giving birth to young. Another common reason for surrendering a pet is because of milestones, like marriage or the birth of a new baby.\n\nThe American Pet Products Association says that since purebreds are only 5% to 6% of the US pet cat population, the overpopulation problem is mainly due to mixed or random bred animals, and avoiding purebred cats would make little difference. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) says that 25% of the dogs who enter animal shelters are purebred.\n\nThe American Kennel Club (AKC) and the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) say the benefits of purebred dogs or cats include that they have been developed over time to show specific traits that are useful for hunting, rescue, assistance and other needs. Animal buyers, including pet owners, may choose a purebred to ensure they know ahead of time the size and other characteristics a young animal will grow into. The CFA also says that purebred cats may make better pets because they have a weaker hunting instinct. The HSUS says that a pedigree is not a guarantee of health and temperament, and that mixed breed dogs and cats often show good characteristics of both breeds, and may be less likely to have genetic defects.\n\nThe AKC says breeders offer services and information about the animals they sell, such as a detailed pedigree, and expertise in the health and temperament of the breed they specialize in. The HSUS says animal shelters may offer animals that have already had necessary veterinary procedures, such as spaying or neutering, vaccination, deworming, and microchipping.\n\nThe best practices set by the AKC for responsible breeders include screening customers so animals are placed in a good home, and follow up services including collecting long term health and development data about animals they have bread, and guaranteeing to take back any animals if their situation is not mutually beneficial for the pet and the owner, and then placing them in a new home. The AKC says that their organization serves to prevent animal cruelty by suspending the benefits of their breed registry and other services from members convicted of animal cruelty, and that their inspection program actively uncovers cases of inhumane treatment of dogs. The HSUS says the AKC has lobbied against laws to stop puppy mills, and that many of the breeders certified as humane by AKC inspectors were later convicted of animal cruelty offenses, while the AKC says it has favored legislation that is necessary, but worked to stop well-intentioned laws that are unenforceable or counterproductive, such as kennel population limits that may harm genetic diversity. The HSUS does not advocate banning breeding but encourages prospective pet owners to seek a breed rescue organization rather than buying directly from a breeder.\n\nBackyard breeding and puppy mills are motivated by profit and the perceived high demand for a particular breed, often without concern for the health or welfare of the animals involved. These animals may be sold through pet stores or directly from the breeders themselves. The AKC says that negligence and cruelty to animals is illegal throughout the US, and that the solution to irresponsible breeding is more effective enforcement of the law, rather than blaming responsible breeders or the demand for purebred animals. The CFA's legislative stance is similar to the AKC. The CFA also says that cat overpopulation is due to free roaming, unaltered pet cats, and feral cats, not purebreds. The CFA says that animal control agencies have failed to publicize complete statistics on the killing of dogs and cats that are dangerously aggressive, concealing the degree to which pet animal euthanasia will always be unavoidable.\n\nNathan Winograd of the No Kill Advocacy Center, a promoter of no-kill shelters, says that overpopulation is a myth and logical fallacy, which many animal control agencies use to avoid criticism for high numbers of killings and low numbers of adoptions. Winograd says that traditional shelters kill animals primarily out of habit and convenience, even when space is available for the animals. He says that using trap-neuter-return (TNR) for stray and feral cats, his organizations have been able to save all healthy and treatable animals, and raise their save rates to at least 90% of all impounded animals. He says there are enough homes for all the homeless animals: \"Based on the number of existing households with pets who have a pet die or run away, more homes potentially become available each year for cats than the number of cats who enter shelters, while more than twice as many homes potentially become available each year for dogs than the number of dogs who enter shelters.\" Winograd says his methods, including TNR for stray and feral cats, and comprehensive changes in animal control, rescue, shelter and community efforts have succeeded in saving all healthy and treatable animals, amounting to at least 90% of all impounded animals. Winograd says that hundreds of No Kill Communities have been created across the U.S., and they are increasing in number throughout the world. In October 2014, the website \"Out the Front Door\" documented 212 communities in the U.S. saving more than 90% of impounded animals.\n\nChristie Keith, social media adviser for animal welfare organizations, said in 2012 that the use of the term \"overpopulation\" to justify shelter killings involves the logical fallacy of a tautology. If a shelter with no adoption program was able to save more animals when a program was added and then enhanced, was the improvement in save rates due to a \"Reduction in 'pet over-population'? Or improvement in shelter management practices?\" When communities are able to save more than 90% of the animals admitted, Keith asks, \"Did they reduce 'pet over-population,' or did they become a no-kill community by implementing modern, proven, progressive sheltering practices?\"\n\nIn a 2008 article, dog advocate Loretta Baughan said that underpopulation was the reality rather than overpopulation. She said that the great majority of pet owners have spayed or neutered their pets, and some shelters were importing large numbers of dogs from other jurisdictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14533744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14533744", "title": "Qualified Production Activities Income", "text": "Qualified Production Activities Income\n\nQualified Production Activities Income is a class of income which is entitled to favored tax treatment under Section 199 of the United States Internal Revenue Code.\n\nFormer section 114 of the United States Internal Revenue Code excluded \"extraterritorial income\" which constituted \"qualifying foreign trade income\" under former section 941 from income. The effect of these provisions was a reduced tax burden in exchange for increased exports, creating an incentive for individuals and businesses within the United States to export. In August 2001, a panel of the World Trade Organization ruled that former section 114 of the United States Internal Revenue Code constituted a violation of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures as a prohibited export subsidy, and a WTO Appellate Body affirmed the finding in January 2002. The finding was based on the fact the provision resulted in the United States government forgoing revenue to which it was otherwise entitled and the fact the resulting subsidy was conditioned on export performance. The United States Congress repealed the exclusion in 2004. To offset the loss of the section 114 benefit, Congress enacted Section 199 regarding qualified production activities income.\n\nSection 199 allows manufacturers to deduct nine percent of their \"qualified production activities income\" (QPAI) in 2010 and following years. The deduction is in the process of \"phasing-in,\" with three percent of QPAI allowed as a deduction in 2005 and 2006, and six percent allowed in 2007-2009. The effect of the deduction is to reduce the rate of taxation on QPAI.\n\nQPAI is defined as the portion of taxpayer income which is equal to the excess of the taxpayer's domestic production gross receipts over the sum of the cost of goods that are allocable to such receipts, and other expenses, losses, or deductions which are properly allocable to such receipts.\n\nDomestic production gross receipts is defined in the provision as the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from any lease, rental, license, sale, exchange, or other disposition of:\n\n1. tangible personal property, computer software, or sound recordings manufactured, produced, grow, or extracted by the taxpayer in whole or significant part within the United States;\n\n2. a qualified film, defined as a non-pornographic film where not less than 50 percent of the total compensation relating to production is compensation for services performed in the United States by actors, production personnel, directors, and producers;\n\n3. electricity, natural gas, or potable water produced by the taxpayer in the United States;\n\n4.construction of real property performed within the United States where the taxpayer is engaged in actively conducting a construction trade or business in the ordinary course of that business; and\n\n5. engineering or architectural services performed within the United States where the taxpayer is engaged in actively conducting an engineering or architectural trade or business and in the ordinary course of that business provides such services with respect to construction of real property with the United States.\n\nHowever, domestic production gross receipts specifically do not include gross receipts derived from the sale of food or beverages at a retail establishment, from the transmission or distribution of electricity, natural gas, or potable water, or from the lease, rental, sale, exchange, or other disposition of land.\n\nThe overall effect of the provision is to encourage domestic production. While this might seem to be a quite different goal than that of the provision it replaced, in theory, increased domestic production should indirectly lead to increased exports as the domestic demand is satisfied. While the QPAI deduction constitutes the United States government forgoing revenue which would otherwise be available to it, it should not run afoul of the same WTO rules because the availability of the deduction is not conditioned on export performance.\n\nEvery business in the manufacturing sector, whether small or large, should consider the manufacturing deduction under IRC § 199. While section 199 comes with a complex set of rules, it nonetheless represents a valuable tax break for businesses that perform domestic manufacturing and certain other production activities. However, businesses should weigh its benefit against the cost of calculating and supporting it. For tax years beginning in 2010 and thereafter, the benefit is fully phased in at 9% of income from qualified production activities, so more businesses may now find the effort worthwhile.\n\n"}
{"id": "40735861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40735861", "title": "Startup Act 3.0", "text": "Startup Act 3.0\n\nStartup Act 3.0 () was legislation considered in the 113th Congress intended to encourage the growth and viability of startup companies in the United States through a series of changes to American tax, immigration, and regulatory policies. It is the third iteration of Startup Act legislation originally introduced into the United States Senate by Jerry Moran (R-KS) in 2011 and then reintroduced as Startup Act 2.0 by Moran and Mark Warner (D-VA) in 2012. The legislation has earned broad support from entrepreneurs and the technology industry. Provisions of the bill have been scored by economists as considerable vehicles of economic growth. It has bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress.\n\nThe legislation was reintroduced in the 114th Congress as \"Startup Act\", ().\n\nSenate bill (S. 310): Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS), Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE), Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO), Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA), Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL).\nHouse bill (H.R. 714): Rep. Michael Grimm, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, Rep. Steve Chabot, Rep. Gerald Connolly, Rep. Devin Nunes, Rep. Jared Polis, Rep. Kevin Yoder, \nRep. Blake Farenthold, Rep. Patrick Murphy, Rep. Peter T. King, Rep. Alcee Hastings, Rep. Judy Chu, Rep. Jim Moran, Rep. David Valadao, Rep. Jared Huffman.\n\nReuters finance blogger Felix Salmon said the bill's entrepreneur visa provision is a \"no-brainer\" and \"a great idea just because without it, the incentives are all wrong.\" Startup Act 3.0 has been considered a potential alternative to comprehensive immigration reform should the push for a comprehensive bill fall short in the 113th Congress.\n"}
{"id": "464773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464773", "title": "Stasi Commission", "text": "Stasi Commission\n\nThe French commission Stasi is a commission set up to reflect upon the application of the \"laïcité\" principle. Named after the chair Bernard Stasi, ombudsman of the (French) Republic (\"médiateur de la République\") since 1998, and consisting of 20 members, it was set up by the president of the Republic Jacques Chirac on 3 July 2003. It reported its conclusions on 11 December 2003.\n\nJacques Chirac established the commission to reflect upon the principle of \"laïcité\" and its application in France. He appointed Bernard Stasi to oversee the commission. During this time, the commission interviewed various representatives from different groups, for example religious leaders such as Cardinal Lustiger, intellectuals such as Régis Debray and Patrick Weil as well school headteachers, political leaders, equal-rights groups and social groups (for example the Ni Putes Ni Soumises).\n\nThe commission emerged from public debates concerning the place of the hijab in French public life in relation to the principles of laïcité, in particular whether its was appropriate in state schools. In addition the commission sought to more clearly define the application of laïcité in the workplace, public services and public spaces. To this end the Stasi Commission lead to the introduction of the French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools. Despite this apparent resolution to the questions concerning laïcité, the controversy surrounding the wearing of the hijab and the media attention paid to it has meant that it remains a source of disagreement within the political class.\n\nIn response to the commission's report Jacques Chirac called for the French public to unite around the principle of laïcité.\n\nThe report espouses two key stances that emerge from the history of secularism in France: state neutrality in regard to religion and freedom of thought particularly in relation to freedom of worship. The report also acknowledges that tensions arise between these two principles particularly in the spheres of the army, prisons, hospitals and education.\n\nThe Commission also called for the incorporation of 'accomodements raisonables' or reasonable accommodation into the principles of laïcité for problems that are not covered by the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State.\n"}
{"id": "2995257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2995257", "title": "Steven N. S. Cheung", "text": "Steven N. S. Cheung\n\nSteven Ng-Sheong Cheung (; born December 1, 1935) is a Hong-Kong-born American economist who specializes in the fields of transaction costs and property rights, following the approach of new institutional economics. He achieved his public fame with an economic analysis on China open-door policy after the 1980s. In his studies of economics, he focuses on economic explanation that is based on real world observation (an observation first approach). He is also the first to introduce concepts from the Chicago School of Economics, especially price theory, into China. In 2016, Cheung claimed to have written \"1,500 articles and 20 books in Chinese\" during his academic career.\n\nHe obtained his PhD in economics from UCLA, where his teachers were the American economists Armen Alchian and Jack Hirshleifer. He taught in the Department of Economics at the University of Washington from 1969 to 1982, and then at the University of Hong Kong from 1982 to 2000. During this period, Cheung reformed the syllabus of Hong Kong's A-level Economics examination, adding the concepts of the postulate of constrained maximization, methodology, transaction cost and property right, most of which originate from the theories of the Chicago school. \n\nA Hakka of Huiyang, Guangdong ancestry born in Hong Kong in 1935, Cheung fled to China in 1941 due to the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong. From 1959 to 1967, he studied Economics at UCLA and prepared a PhD dissertation. From 1967 to 1969, he did postdoctoral research at the University of Chicago, analysing share tenancy and variable rural land resource allocation, and was hired as an assistant professor after impressing Milton Friedman in a debate. In 1969, he moved to the University of Washington where he taught until 1982. Under the advice of several friends, including Ronald Coase, he returned to Hong Kong as a professor in University of Hong Kong to support the economic reforms of China.\n\nUnlike modern mainstream economists, Cheung's analysis does not rely on advanced mathematical techniques but solely on the two basic building blocks of price theory: one is the axiom of constrained maximisation and the other, the law of demand (one that already incorporates the law of diminishing marginal returns). One of the constraints which he emphasizes most is transaction cost (or better termed institutional cost).\n\nHis theory of share tenancy has enhanced the understanding of contractual arrangement, which was largely ignored by neo-classical economists. According to Cheung, sharecropping is not necessarily exploitative. It will achieve the same efficient allocation as labor markets under competition and zero transaction costs (Cheung, 1968). In the presence of transaction costs, sharecropping can be efficient by lowering the monitoring costs of wage contracts and increasing risk-sharing benefits relative to rent contracts (Cheung, 1969).\n\nThis implication is revolutionary; sharecropping was perceived as an inferior arrangement for years. After the publication of \"The Fable of The Bees\", our perception of externalities is no longer the same: as long as corresponding property rights are clearly delineated, OR transaction cost is zero, externalities can be internalized through private negotiation/contract arrangement without government intervention.\n\nIn 1983, Cheung published probably his most important journal article, \"The Contractual Nature of the Firm\". While a firm cannot be defined easily, Cheung interprets it as a kind of contractual arrangement being used to replace the market (i.e. price mechanism) to reduce transaction costs (e.g. the cost of price searching). Cheung once stated that when he finished writing the article, he knew that it would become a work that will last generations, and still be read a hundred years later. Thus, \"[he] beheld the sky and laughed.\"\n\nOutside of the academic world, Steven Cheung is most well known for his numerous writings directed at a popular audience, especially the Chinese public. He is also known for his famous wit; in 1969 he wrote an article \"Irving Fisher and the Red Guards\", published in the renowned \"Journal of Political Economy\", arguing ironically that the activities of the Red Guards in China stemmed from their use of a \"refined concept of capital\". Unbeknownst to the readers, the article was written under considerable emotional pain; his close friend, the table tennis champion Rong Guotuan, had just committed suicide after being tortured by the Red Guards.\n\nCheung maintained a lifelong friendship with former mentors Ronald Coase and Milton Friedman, the latter of whom officiated his wedding. He accompanied Friedman in his numerous tours of China, and was present when Friedman met with Chinese leader Zhao Ziyang to discuss economic reforms.\n\nCheung was also an avid photographer. He took the most iconic photo of Milton Friedman, which was featured on the cover of Friedman's treatise \"Capitalism and Freedom\".\n\nNobel Prize winners like Ronald Coase and Joseph E. Stiglitz have acknowledged intellectual provocation by Cheung in their respective Nobel lectures. [Coase citation missing]. While referring to Cheung's \"brilliant, valiant attempt\" to prove that sharecropping does not matter to the incentives of the workers, Stiglitz credited Cheung's \"unreasonable assumptions, especially concerning information\" for motivating him to develop the theories of the role of information in economics.\n\nSteven Cheung is highly respected for his deep devotion to his research. In order to understand real life phenomena, he personally engaged in numerous economic activities, such as fish farming, selling citrus fruit, inspecting the petroleum industry, and haggling over the price of antiques. He has criticized the isolation of most economists from real life problems.\n\nCheung's contribution to economics and China's economic development can be roughly grouped in the following areas,\n\n\nHe wrote many books (in Chinese) commenting on China's modernization programs from an economic point of view. In the 1980s, Cheung predicted and strongly supported an economic transformation of China as a market economy. However, in that decade, China went through serious inflation, leading to strong economic, political and social tensions.\n\nHowever, after 1992, China continued to reform economically. Steven Cheung claimed that most of his \"predictions\" have come true. One of his major ideas, the replacing of state-owned enterprises by private enterprises, turns out to be very consistent with the direction taken by Chinese political leaders and policy makers.\n\nLater on, after the leaders of Shanghai began economic reforms, he predicted that it would immediately become one of the financial centers of the world, surpassing Hong Kong. The prediction was met with heavy skepticism, but turned out to be correct in some respect. As of 31 January 2015, Shanghai Stock Exchange overtook the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in terms of market capitalization. However, Shanghai has yet to catch up with Hong Kong in terms of financial infrastructure, and Shanghai's dream of overtaking Hong Kong has yet to be fully fulfilled.\n\nOn January 28, 2003, Cheung was indicted on thirteen counts by a US federal grand jury. The charges consisted of six counts of filing a false income tax return, six counts of filing false foreign bank account reports, and one count of Consipiracy to Defraud the United States. Cheung was accused of failing to report incomes from Hong Kong parking lots and other business. As a U.S. citizen, Cheung is obliged to report incomes from anywhere in the world, even if he does not reside in the United States. The law is uncommon in other countries. Cheung insists that he relied on the advice of his tax consultant, and did not know he was supposed to report the income in question.\n\nExperts have said that ignorance of the U.S. tax policy is common among U.S. expatriates; the U.S. government generally does not pursue investigations of failures to report overseas income for non-residents. When discovered, offenders are often simply requested to turn in the unpaid tax. It is unknown why the U.S. government chose to investigate Cheung, and further to pursue a federal grand jury indictment; journalists have suspected ulterior motives.\n\nOriginally a professor at University of Hong Kong, because of the extradition agreements between the US and Hong Kong, Cheung has since stayed in mainland China, a country that has no such agreements with America. He now writes books and works as a columnist for the China website ifeng.com. Occasionally, he pays visits to various universities in mainland China.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2003, Steven Cheung's company, Steven N. S. Cheung Inc. had a subsidiary in Seattle called Thesaurus Fine Arts, which specialized in Asian antique pieces. The store closed when a series of investigative reports in the Seattle Times alleged that many of the antiques were fake. In 2004, the Washington State Attorney General filed consumer fraud charges against Thesaurus Fine Arts. In 2005, Thesaurus Fine Arts settled for up to $550,000 in fines, attorney fees, and restitution. Cheung was dropped from the case as a result. Cheung has denied ownership of Thesaurus. Thesaurus is a subsidiary of Steven N. S. Cheung Inc., but it is claimed that Cheung is \"not an officer, director or shareholder\" of Thesaurus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10505680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10505680", "title": "Sunset Strip curfew riots", "text": "Sunset Strip curfew riots\n\nThe Sunset Strip curfew riots, also known as the \"hippie riots\", were a series of early counterculture-era clashes that took place between police and young people on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood, California in 1966.\n\nBy the mid 1960s, The Sunset Strip had become a place dominated by young members of the hippie and rock and roll counterculture. While this brought many artistic initiatives to the neighborhood, problems simultaneously arose in the form of alcohol and drug abuse and the disturbance of traffic.\n\nIn 1966, the city's administration implemented a handful of measures to curtail the growing nuisance. They targeted the Strip's most prominent rock club, the Whisky a Go Go, forcing its managers to change its name to the Whisk . Furthermore, annoyed residents and business owners in the district had encouraged the passage of strict (10:00 pm) curfew and loitering laws to reduce the traffic congestion resulting from crowds of young club patrons. This was perceived by young, local rock music fans as an infringement on their civil rights, and for weeks tensions and protests swelled. On Saturday, November 12, 1966, fliers were distributed along the Strip inviting people to demonstrate later that day. Hours before the protest one of L.A.'s rock 'n' roll radio stations announced there would be a rally at Pandora's Box, a club facing forced closure and demolition at the corner of Sunset Boulevard and Crescent Heights, and cautioned people to tread carefully. That evening, as many as a 1,000 youthful demonstrators, including such celebrities as Jack Nicholson and Peter Fonda (who was handcuffed by police), erupted in protest against the perceived repressive enforcement of these recently invoked curfew laws.\n\nThe unrest continued the next night and off and on throughout November and December. Meanwhile, the local administration had decided to get tough, and rescinded the \"youth permits\" of twelve of the Strip's clubs, thereby making them off-limits to anybody under 21. In November 1966, the Los Angeles City Council voted to acquire and demolish the Pandora's Box. The club was eventually demolished in early August 1967.\n\nAccording to \"Timeline\"'s Matt Reimann, the riots anticipated a cultural rift that only grew in the coming years. In this light, Bob Gibson, manager of the Byrds and the Mamas and the Papas reflected: \"If you had to put your finger on an event that was a barometer of the tide turning, it would probably be the Sunset Strip riots.\"\n\nRegarding the importance of the Sunset Strip riots, \"The Guardian\" journalist Woody Haut argues that \"it was, if nothing else, an early salvo in \"the culture wars,\" a battle which continues to this day (...).\" He furthermore argues that the riot's most lasting effect had to do with the music that came out of the event.\n\nThe incident provided the basis for the 1967 low-budget teen exploitation film \"Riot on Sunset Strip\", and inspired multiple songs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1618829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618829", "title": "Ultrahazardous activity", "text": "Ultrahazardous activity\n\nAn ultrahazardous activity in the common law of torts is one that is so inherently dangerous that a person engaged in such an activity can be held strictly liable for injuries caused to another person, even if the person engaged in the activity took every reasonable precaution to prevent others from being injured. In the Restatement of the Law 2d, Torts 2d, the term has been abandoned in favor of the phrase \"inherently dangerous activity.\"\n\nSeveral categories of activities are commonly recognized as being inherently hazardous; those who engage in them are subject to strict liability. These include:\n\n\nSomeone who is injured by one of these inherently hazardous activities while trespassing on the property of the person engaged in the activity is barred from suing under a strict liability theory. Instead, they must prove that the property owner was negligent.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, this area of law is governed by the rule established in \"Rylands v Fletcher\".\n\nFactors determining an activity is ultrahazardous:\n"}
{"id": "69923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69923", "title": "Whodunit", "text": "Whodunit\n\nA whodunit or whodunnit (a colloquial elision of \"Who [has] done it?\" or \"Who did it?\") is a complex, plot-driven variety of the detective story in which the audience is given the opportunity to engage in the same process of deduction as the protagonist throughout the investigation of a crime. The reader or viewer is provided with the clues from which the identity of the perpetrator may be deduced before the story provides the revelation itself at its climax. The investigation is usually conducted by an eccentric, amateur, or semi-professional detective.\n\nJournalist Wolfe Kaufman claimed that he coined the word \"whodunit\" around 1935 while working for \"Variety\" magazine. However, an editor of the magazine, Abel Green, attributed it to his predecessor, Sime Silverman. The earliest appearance of the word \"whodunit\" in \"Variety\" occurs in the edition of August 28, 1934, in reference to a film adaptation of the play \"Recipe for Murder,\" as featured in the headline, \"U's Whodunit: Universal is shooting 'Recipe for Murder,' Arnold Ridley's play\". The film was eventually titled \"Blind Justice\".\n\nThe \"whodunit\" flourished during the so-called \"Golden Age\" of detective fiction, between 1920 and 1950, when it was the predominant mode of crime writing. Many of the best-known writers of whodunits in this period were British — notably Agatha Christie, Nicholas Blake, G. K. Chesterton, Christianna Brand, Edmund Crispin, Michael Innes, Dorothy L. Sayers, Gladys Mitchell and Josephine Tey. Others – S. S. Van Dine, John Dickson Carr and Ellery Queen — were American, but imitated the \"English\" style. Still others, such as Rex Stout, Clayton Rawson and Earl Derr Biggers, attempted a more \"American\" style.\n\nOver time, certain conventions and clichés developed which limited surprise on the part of the reader – vis-à-vis details of the plot – the identity of the murderer. Several authors excelled, after successfully misleading their readers, in revealing an unlikely suspect as the real villain of the story. They often had a predilection for certain casts of characters and settings, with the secluded English country house at the top of the list.\n\nOne reaction to the conventionality of British murder mysteries was American \"hard-boiled\" crime fiction, epitomized by the writings of Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett and Mickey Spillane, among others. Though the settings were grittier, the violence more abundant and the style more colloquial, plots were, as often as not, whodunits constructed in much the same way as the \"cozier\" British mysteries.\n\nCurrently popular are live \"whodunit\" experiences, including game form, where guests at a private party might use cards, a board, or video from a pre-packaged box, to perform the roles of the suspects and detective; and there are a number of murder mystery dinner theaters, where either professional or community theatre performers take on those roles, and present the murder mystery to an audience, usually in conjunction with a meal. Typically before or immediately following the final course, the audience is given a chance to offer their help in solving the mystery.\n\n\nRecent additions to the subgenre of the whodunit include Simon Brett, the Thackery Phin novels of John Sladek, Lawrence Block's \"The Burglar in the Library\" (1997) (which is a spoof set in the present in an English-style country house), Kinky Friedman's \"Road Kill\" (1997), Ben Elton's \"Dead Famous\" (2001), and Gilbert Adair's \"The Act of Roger Murgatroyd\" (2006).\n\nAn important variation on the whodunit is the inverted detective story (also referred to as a \"howcatchem\" or \"howdunnit\") in which the guilty party and the crime are openly revealed to the reader/audience and the story follows the investigator's efforts to find out the truth while the criminal attempts to prevent it. The \"Columbo\" TV movie series is the classic example of this kind of detective story (\"\" and \"The Streets of San Francisco\" also fit into this genre). This tradition dates back to the inverted detective stories of R Austin Freeman, and reached an apotheosis of sorts in \"Malice Aforethought\" written by Francis Iles (a pseudonym of \"Anthony Berkeley\"). In the same vein is Iles's \"Before the Fact\" (1932), which became the Hitchcock movie \"Suspicion\". Successors of the psychological suspense novel include Patricia Highsmith's \"This Sweet Sickness\" (1960), Simon Brett's \"A Shock to the System\" (1984), and Stephen Dobyns's \"The Church of Dead Girls\" (1997).\n\nIn addition to standard humor, parody, spoof, and pastiche have had a long tradition within the field of crime fiction. Examples of pastiche are the Sherlock Holmes stories written by John Dickson Carr, and hundreds of similar works by such authors as E. B. Greenwood. As for parody, the first Sherlock Holmes spoofs appeared shortly after Conan Doyle published his first stories. Similarly, there have been innumerable Agatha Christie send-ups. The idea is to exaggerate and mock the most noticeable features of the original and, by doing so, amuse especially those readers who are also familiar with that original.\n\nThere are also \"reversal\" mysteries, in which the conventional structure is deliberately inverted. One of the earliest examples of this is \"Trent's Last Case\" (1914) by E. C. Bentley (1875–1956). Trent, a very able amateur detective, investigates the murder of Sigsbee Manderson. He finds many important clues, exposes several false clues, and compiles a seemingly unassailable case against a suspect. He then learns that that suspect cannot be a murderer, and that while he found nearly all of the truth, his conclusion is wrong. Then, at the end of the novel, another character tells Trent that he always knew the other suspect was innocent, because \"I shot Manderson myself.\" These are Trent's final words to the killer:\n\nAnother example of a spoof, which at the same time shows that the borderline between serious mystery and its parody is necessarily blurred, is U.S. mystery writer Lawrence Block's novel \"The Burglar in the Library\" (1997). The burglar of the title is Bernie Rhodenbarr, who has booked a weekend at an English-style country house just to steal a signed, and therefore very valuable, first edition of Chandler's \"The Big Sleep\", which he knows has been sitting there on one of the shelves for more than half a century. Alas, immediately after his arrival a dead body turns up in the library, the room is sealed off, and Rhodenbarr has to track down the murderer before he can enter the library again and start hunting for the precious book.\n\n\"Murder by Death\" is Neil Simon's spoof of many of the best-known whodunit sleuths and their sidekicks. In the 1976 film, Sam Spade (from \"The Maltese Falcon\") becomes Sam Diamond, Hercule Poirot becomes Milo Perrier, and so on. The characters are all gathered in a large country house and given clues to solve the mystery.\n\nTom Stoppard's \"The Real Inspector Hound\" is a send-up of crime fiction novels and features a bumbling detective.\n\nThe 2001 film \"Gosford Park\" paid homage to the classic whodunit premise, while at the same time presenting an original story.\n\nThe term \"whodunit\" is also used among homicide investigators to describe a case in which the identity of the killer is not quickly apparent. Since most homicides are committed by people with whom the victim is acquainted or related, a whodunit case is usually more difficult to solve.\n\n"}
