{"id": "324572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324572", "title": "Academic journal", "text": "Academic journal\n\nAn academic or scholarly journal is a periodical publication in which scholarship relating to a particular academic discipline is published. Academic journals serve as permanent and transparent forums for the presentation, scrutiny, and discussion of research. They are usually peer-reviewed or refereed. Content typically takes the form of articles presenting original research, review articles, and book reviews. The purpose of an academic journal, according to Henry Oldenburg (the first editor of \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\"), is to give researchers a venue to \"impart their knowledge to one another, and contribute what they can to the Grand design of improving natural knowledge, and perfecting all Philosophical Arts, and Sciences.\"\n\nThe term \"academic journal\" applies to scholarly publications in all fields; this article discusses the aspects common to all academic field journals. Scientific journals and journals of the quantitative social sciences vary in form and function from journals of the humanities and qualitative social sciences; their specific aspects are separately discussed.\n\nThe first academic journal was \"Journal des sçavans\" (January 1665), followed soon after by \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\" (March 1665), and \"Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences\" (1666). The first fully peer-reviewed journal was \"Medical Essays and Observations\" (1733).\n\nThe idea of a published journal with the purpose of \"[letting] people know what is happening in the Republic of Letters\" was first conceived by Eudes de Mazerai in 1663. A publication titled \"Journal littéraire général\" was supposed to be published to fulfill that goal, but never was. Denis de Salo, under the pseudonym \"Sieur de Hédouville\", took Mazerai's idea and obtained a royal privilege from King Louis XIV, granted to Jean Cusson on 8 August 1664, to establish the \"Journal des sçavans\". The journal's first issue was published on 5 January 1665. It was aimed at people of letters, and had four main objectives:\nSoon after, the Royal Society established Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society in March 1665, and the Académie des Sciences established the \"Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences\" in 1666, which more strongly focused on scientific communications. By the end of the 18th century, nearly 500 such periodical had been published, the vast majority coming from Germany (304 periodicals), France (53), and England (34). Several of those publications however, and in particular the German journals, tended to be short lived (under 5 years). A.J. Meadows has estimated the proliferation of journal to reach 10,000 journals in 1950, and 71,000 in 1987. However, Michael Mabe warns that the estimates will vary depending on the definition of what exactly counts as a scholarly publication, but that the growth rate has been \"remarkably consistent over time\", with an average rates of 3.46% per year from 1800 to 2003.\n\nIn 1733, \"Medical Essays and Observations\" was established by the Medical Society of Edinburgh as the first fully peer-reviewed journal. Peer review was introduced as an attempt to increase the quality and pertinence of submissions. Other important events in the history of academic journals include the establishment of \"Nature\" (1869) and \"Science\" (1880), the establishment of \"Postmodern Culture\" in 1990 as the first online-only journal, the foundation of arXiv in 1991 for the dissemination of preprints to be discussed prior to publication in a journal, and the establishment of \"PLOS One\" in 2006 as the first megajournal.\n\nThere are two kinds of article or paper submissions in academia: solicited, where an individual has been invited to submit work either through direct contact or through a general submissions call, and unsolicited, where an individual submits a work for potential publication without directly being asked to do so. Upon receipt of a submitted article, editors at the journal determine whether to reject the submission outright or begin the process of peer review. In the latter case, the submission becomes subject to review by outside scholars of the editor's choosing who typically remain anonymous. The number of these peer reviewers (or \"referees\") varies according to each journal's editorial practice – typically, no fewer than two, though sometimes three or more, experts in the subject matter of the article produce reports upon the content, style, and other factors, which inform the editors' publication decisions. Though these reports are generally confidential, some journals and publishers also practice public peer review. The editors either choose to reject the article, ask for a revision and resubmission, or accept the article for publication. Even accepted articles are often subjected to further (sometimes considerable) editing by journal editorial staff before they appear in print. The peer review can take from several weeks to several months.\n\nReview articles, also called \"reviews of progress,\" are checks on the research published in journals. Some journals are devoted entirely to review articles, some contain a few in each issue, and others do not publish review articles. Such reviews often cover the research from the preceding year, some for longer or shorter terms; some are devoted to specific topics, some to general surveys. Some journals are enumerative, listing all significant articles in a given subject; others are selective, including only what they think worthwhile. Yet others are evaluative, judging the state of progress in the subject field. Some journals are published in series, each covering a complete subject field year, or covering specific fields through several years. Unlike original research articles, review articles tend to be solicited submissions, sometimes planned years in advance. They are typically relied upon by students beginning a study in a given field, or for current awareness of those already in the field.\n\nReviews of scholarly books are checks upon the research books published by scholars; unlike articles, book reviews tend to be solicited. Journals typically have a separate book review editor determining which new books to review and by whom. If an outside scholar accepts the book review editor's request for a book review, he or she generally receives a free copy of the book from the journal in exchange for a timely review. Publishers send books to book review editors in the hope that their books will be reviewed. The length and depth of research book reviews varies much from journal to journal, as does the extent of textbook and trade book review.\n\nAn academic journal's prestige is established over time, and can reflect many factors, some but not all of which are expressible quantitatively. In each academic discipline, there are dominant journals that receive the largest number of submissions, and therefore can be selective in choosing their content. Yet, not only the largest journals are of excellent quality.\n\nIn the natural sciences and in the social sciences, the impact factor is an established proxy, measuring the number of later articles citing articles already published in the journal. There are other quantitative measures of prestige, such as the overall number of citations, how quickly articles are cited, and the average \"half-life\" of articles. Clarivate Analytics' \"Journal Citation Reports\", which among other features, computes an impact factor for academic journals, draws data for computation from the Science Citation Index Expanded (for natural science journals), and from the Social Sciences Citation Index (for social science journals). Several other metrics are also used, including the SCImago Journal Rank, CiteScore, Eigenfactor, and Altmetrics.\n\nIn the Anglo-American humanities, there is no tradition (as there is in the sciences) of giving impact-factors that could be used in establishing a journal's prestige. Recent moves have been made by the European Science Foundation (ESF) to change the situation, resulting in the publication of preliminary lists for the ranking of academic journals in the humanities. These rankings have been severely criticized, notably by history and sociology of science British journals that have published a common editorial entitled \"Journals under Threat.\" Though it did not prevent ESF and some national organizations from proposing journal rankings, it largely prevented their use as evaluation tools.\n\nIn some disciplines such as knowledge management/intellectual capital, the lack of a well-established journal ranking system is perceived by academics as \"a major obstacle on the way to tenure, promotion and achievement recognition\". Conversely, a significant number of scientists and organizations consider the pursuit of impact factor calculations as inimical to the goals of science, and have signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment to limit its use.\n\nThe categorization of journal prestige in some subjects has been attempted, typically using letters to rank their academic world importance.\n\nThree categories of techniques have developed to assess journal quality and create journal rankings:\n\nMany academic journals are subsidized by universities or professional organizations, and do not exist to make a profit. However, they often accept advertising, page and image charges from authors to pay for production costs. On the other hand, some journals are produced by commercial publishers who do make a profit by charging subscriptions to individuals and libraries. They may also sell all of their journals in discipline-specific collections or a variety of other packages.\n\nJournal editors tend to have other professional responsibilities, most often as teaching professors. In the case of the largest journals, there are paid staff assisting in the editing. The production of the journals is almost always done by publisher-paid staff. Humanities and social science academic journals are usually subsidized by universities or professional organization.\n\nThe Internet has revolutionized the production of, and access to, academic journals, with their contents available online via services subscribed to by academic libraries. Individual articles are subject-indexed in databases such as Google Scholar. Some of the smallest, most specialized journals are prepared in-house, by an academic department, and published only online – such form of publication has sometimes been in the blog format. Currently, there is a movement in higher education encouraging open access, either via self archiving, whereby the author deposits a paper in a disciplinary or institutional repository where it can be searched for and read, or via publishing it in a free open access journal, which does not charge for subscriptions, being either subsidized or financed by a publication fee. Given the goal of sharing scientific research to speed advances, open access has affected science journals more than humanities journals. Commercial publishers are experimenting with open access models, but are trying to protect their subscription revenues.\n\nThe much lower entry cost of on-line publishing has also raised concerns of an increase in publication of \"junk\" journals with lower publishing standards. These journals, often with names chosen as similar to well-established publications, solicit articles via e-mail and then charge the author to publish an article, often with no sign of actual review. Jeffrey Beall, a research librarian at the University of Colorado, has compiled a list of what he considers to be \"potential, possible, or probable predatory scholarly open-access publishers\"; the list numbered over 300 journals as of April 2013, but he estimates that there may be thousands. The OMICS Publishing Group, which publishes a number of the journals on this list, has threatened to sue Beall.\n\nSome academic journals use the registered report format, which aims to counteract issues such as data dredging and hypothesizing after the results are known. For example, \"Nature Human Behaviour\" has adopted the registered report format, as it \"shift[s] the emphasis from the results of research to the questions that guide the research and the methods used to answer them\". The \"European Journal of Personality\" defines this format: \"In a registered report, authors create a study proposal that includes theoretical and empirical background, research questions/hypotheses, and pilot data (if available). Upon submission, this proposal will then be reviewed prior to data collection, and if accepted, the paper resulting from this peer-reviewed procedure will be published, regardless of the study outcomes.\"\n\nWikipedia has many Lists of Academic Journals by discipline, such as List of African Studies Journals and List of Forestry Journals. The largest database providing detailed information about journals is Ulrichs Global Serials Directory. Other databases providing detailed information about journals are the Modern Language Association Directory of Periodicals and Genamics JournalSeek. Journal hosting websites like Project MUSE, JSTOR, Pubmed, Ingenta Web of Science, and Informaworld also provide journal lists. Some sites evaluate journals, providing information on such things as how long the journal takes to review articles and what types of articles they want.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5027901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5027901", "title": "Alan Lesgold", "text": "Alan Lesgold\n\nAlan M. Lesgold, an educational psychologist, is professor of psychology and Dean of the University of Pittsburgh School of Education. He received a PhD in psychology from Stanford University, where his doctoral advisor was Gordon Bower (1971) and holds an honorary doctorate from the Open University of the Netherlands. The psychologist has made notable contributions to the cognitive science of learning and its application to instructional technology.\n\nLesgold received the award for Distinguished Contributions to Applications of Psychology of Educatipon and Training from the American Psychological Association in 2001.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57042077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57042077", "title": "Ball State Center for Energy Research/Education/Service", "text": "Ball State Center for Energy Research/Education/Service\n\nThe Ball State Center for Energy Research/Education/Service (CERES) is an interdisciplinary academic support unit at Ball State University focused on enhancing research and education on issues of energy usage and conservation. The center was established in 1982 as an addition to the existing College of Architecture and Planning. The center currently states the following as its mission: \"To maintain ongoing programs for the examination of state-of-the-art energy conservation and end-use practices; To investigate alternative solutions to contemporary energy problems; To develop projections and implications of the results of these solutions; To devise means of implementing these ideas; To disseminate findings to the appropriate publics—professionals, educators, policy planners, students and laypersons.\"\n\nConcerns about environmentalism and conservation became popularized in the 1970s following the successes of the inaugural Earth Day that allowed for a sort of fusion between radical counterculture ideas regarding environmentalism and more mainstream ideas presented by politicians such as Gaylord Nelson. In addition, energy crises, such as the 1973 Oil Crisis and the 1979 Three Mile Island accident caused concern about the way contemporary energy sources were being utilized, prompting some to begin research in alternative forms of energy or better forms of energy conservation. In response, Ball State University started their efforts to implement energy education into the college; in 1979, with funding from the Indiana General Assembly, the university began planning of the Center for Energy Research/Education/Service, with construction beginning in the summer of 1980. Simultaneously, Ball State University began planning for incorporating this sort of education about conservation and energy education into their curriculum, including proposed courses in environmental architecture and in utilizing solar energy. In 1982, CERES was completed and opened for usage for Ball State's campus. \n\nSince its inception in Ball State's campus, CERES has served as a means to incorporate energy education into Ball State's campus. By 1986, even, this had become one of its missions, with the Center becoming focused on placing Ball State as a leader in reaching a \"sustainable future.\" The Center also had national significance; from the period between 1985 and 1988, CERES was one of only five test laboratories accredited by the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation for their solar research. Going forward, the center has remained an integral part of energy and conservation research and education, both on Ball State's campus and in the greater Muncie community.\n"}
{"id": "21293511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21293511", "title": "Blanche Marchesi", "text": "Blanche Marchesi\n\nBlanche Marchesi (4 April 1863 – 15 December 1940) was a French mezzo-soprano and voice teacher best known for her interpretations of the works of Richard Wagner. She was the daughter of Mathilde Graumann Marchesi, a German voice instructor who taught a variety of well-known opera singers, including Emma Eames, Nellie Melba, and Emma Calvé.\n\nMarchesi was born in Paris in February 1863. For her education, she attended boarding schools in Frankfurt, Germany and then Paris.\nAlthough she initially was educated as a violinist, she decided to pursue a singing career in 1881. Her first concert was held at Queen's Hall in 1896. Opera critics at the time criticized her technical skill but praised her interpretive ability. During her career as a voice teacher, Marchesi instructed such singers as British contraltos Muriel Brunskill and Astra Desmond. She premiered a work of Cecile Chaminade in England in the 1890s. Martin Shaw's song \"Heffle Cuckoo Fair\" is dedicated to her. She held a farewell concert in 1938, two years before her death.\n\nMarchesi had two sisters, Therése and Stella. Her parents were Mathilde Graumann Marchesi of Frankfurt and Salvatore De Castrone (Marchese di Palermo, hence the stage name Marchesi), who was also an opera singer and a voice instructor. He was also involved as a key figure in the Italian Revolution of 1848 where he initiated the uprising at the Palazzo Raimondi in Milan. She was first married to Baron Alexander Popper von Podhragy, Vienna, with whom she had 3 sons. Leopold, Fritz and Ernst. Leopold was declared enemy of the state by the Nazis and the Democratic Republic of Austria and expropriated. Fritz was killed by Austrian Nazis in 1948 in Austria. Ernst was deported to Dachau, freed and fled to the United States of America. Baron André Anzon Caccamisi,London, was her second husband as of 1894 with whom she had one son, Baron Jerome Anzon-Caccamisi, who was murdered by the National Socialists in February 1945 as a Resistance and French intelligence officer in the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp in Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "51895263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51895263", "title": "C-1 visa", "text": "C-1 visa\n\nThe C-1 visa is a type of visa reserved for immediate and continuous transit through the United States to a foreign country. Interviews are not required for individuals younger than 13 or older than 80. Recipients are not eligible for an extension or change of status, and must possess sufficient funds to effect transit and enter the destination foreign country. The maximum term of stay is 29 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "25019407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25019407", "title": "CECIM", "text": "CECIM\n\nCECIM - \"Centro de Educación y Capacitación Integral Hna. Maura Clarke\" (\"The Center for Education and Training in Honor of Sister Maura Clarke\") is an education center located in Ciudad Sandino, Nicaragua.\n\nThe education center has many projects to educate the people of Ciudad Sandino, both children and adults. Cecim gives classes in e.g. sewing, baking, dancing, and thanks to money from a project in Sweden CECIM now offers acting classes.\n\nFor many years CECIM has had contact with the Swedish \"gymnasium\" \"Angeredsgymnasiet\" in Göteborg, Sweden. In different exchange programs, students from Angeredsgymnasiet have visited CECIM, and students from CECIM has visited Angeredsgymnasiet.\n"}
{"id": "39518482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39518482", "title": "Cyprus International University", "text": "Cyprus International University\n\nCyprus International University was established in 1997, as a result of rising interest in higher educational institutions and instruction in English, and in recognition of the increased need for universities which conduct education in foreign languages in Cyprus and other countries in the region.\n\nCyprus International University is in North Nicosia, the capital of Northern Cyprus; the University is situated 5 km from the city centre, 14 km from the Ercan State Airport, 50 km from the town of Famagusta, and 30 km from the coastal town of Kyrenia.\n\n Faculty of Pharmacy \n\n\n\n\n Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Cyprus International University is home to the following research centers:\n\nContinuing Education Center in CIU, is the unit that maintains the arrangement, coordination and execution of education programs which are prepared to be served to society.\n\nCIU Library provides opportunities for students, academic and administrative staff to benefit from library services by joining for free. There is a huge collection which consists of books, e-books, magazines, CDs, video tapes, floppy disks and academic internet sources in the library.\n\nCIU FM gives the opportunity to the Communication Faculty students to practice; especially in radio programming, broadcasting and radio station management. CIU FM, which provides communication and knowledge exchange between university directory and students, is not only a station that broadcasts music but it also provides cultural knowledge flow to the listeners, and an enjoyable gathering point where social benefits and education are considered. CIU FM aims to be the pioneer station, according to the listening statistics, in the Northern Cyprus.\n\nCyprus International University is a full member of institutions and organizations such as;\n\n\nCIU's student body represents over 64 different countries, and there are a number of student clubs catering to the interests of students outside of pure academy.\n\nCIU Arena which is the first integrated sport complex consists of 7500 m indoor and 15.000 m outdoor area. The complex which has the capacity of 1710 spectators, consists of a professional and inclusive fitness room, indoor sport hall (1540 capacity), indoor swimming pool (semi- Olympic, 170 capacity), table-tennis, aerobic gall, wall bars, shooting circle, squash, club rooms, cafe, health centre, changing rooms, offices, classrooms etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2225882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2225882", "title": "Developmental disability", "text": "Developmental disability\n\nDevelopmental disability is a diverse group of chronic conditions that are due to mental or physical impairments that arise before adulthood. Developmental disabilities cause individuals living with them many difficulties in certain areas of life, especially in \"language, mobility, learning, self-help, and independent living\". Developmental disabilities can be detected early on and persist throughout an individual's lifespan. Developmental disability that affects all areas of a child's development is sometimes referred to as global developmental delay.\n\nMost common developmental disabilities:\n\n\nThe causes of developmental disabilities are varied and remain unknown in a large proportion of cases. Even in cases of known etiology the line between \"cause\" and \"effect\" is not always clear, leading to difficulty in categorizing causes.\n\nGenetic factors have long been implicated in the causation of developmental disabilities. There is also a large environmental component to these conditions, and the relative contributions of nature versus nurture have been debated for decades.\n\nCurrent theories on causation focus on genetic factors, and over 1,000 known genetic conditions include developmental disabilities as a symptom.\n\nDevelopmental disabilities affect between 1 and 2% of the population in most western countries, although many government sources acknowledge that statistics are flawed in this area. The worldwide proportion of people with developmental disabilities is believed to be approximately 1.4%. It is twice as common in males as in females, and some researchers have found that the prevalence of mild developmental disabilities is likely to be higher in areas of poverty and deprivation, and among people of certain ethnicities.\n\nDevelopmental disabilities can be initially suspected when a child does not reach expected child development stages. Subsequently, a differential diagnosis may be used to diagnose an underlying disease, which may include a physical examination and genetic tests.\n\nThe degree of disability can be quantified by assigning a \"developmental age\" to a person, which is age of the group into which test scores place the person. This, in turn, can be used to calculate a \"\" (DQ) as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nThere are many physical health factors associated with developmental disabilities. For some specific syndromes and diagnoses, these are inherent, such as poor heart function in people with Down syndrome. People with severe communication difficulties find it difficult to articulate their health needs, and without adequate support and education might not recognize ill health. Epilepsy, sensory problems (such as poor vision and hearing), obesity and poor dental health are over-represented in this population. Life expectancy among people with developmental disabilities as a group is estimated at 20 years below average, although this is improving with advancements in adaptive and medical technologies, and as people are leading healthier, more fulfilling lives, and some conditions (such as Freeman-Sheldon syndrome) do not impact life expectancy.\n\nMental health issues, and psychiatric illnesses, are more likely to occur in people with developmental disabilities than in the general population. A number of factors are attributed to the high incidence rate of dual diagnoses:\n\nThese problems are exacerbated by difficulties in diagnosis of mental health issues, and in appropriate treatment and medication, as for physical health issues.\n\nAbuse is a significant issue for people with developmental disabilities, and as a group they are regarded as vulnerable people in most jurisdictions. Common types of abuse include:\nLack of education, lack of self-esteem and self-advocacy skills, lack of understanding of social norms and appropriate behavior and communication difficulties are strong contributing factors to the high incidence of abuse among this population.\n\nIn addition to abuse from people in positions of power, peer abuse is recognized as a significant, if misunderstood, problem. Rates of criminal offense among people with developmental disabilities are also disproportionately high, and it is widely acknowledged that criminal justice systems throughout the world are ill-equipped for the needs of people with developmental disabilities—as both perpetrators and victims of crime. Failings in care have been identified in one in eight deaths of people with learning difficulties under NHS England.\n\nSome people with developmental disabilities exhibit challenging behavior, defined as \"culturally abnormal behaviour(s) of such intensity, frequency or duration that the physical safety of the person or others is placed in serious jeopardy, or behaviour which is likely to seriously limit or deny access to the use of ordinary community facilities\". Common types of challenging behavior include self-injurious behavior (such as hitting, headbutting, biting), aggressive behavior (such as hitting others, shouting, screaming, spitting, kicking, swearing, hairpulling), inappropriate sexualized behavior (such as public masturbation or groping), behavior directed at property (such as throwing objects and stealing) and stereotyped behaviors (such as repetitive rocking, echolalia or elective incontinence). Such behaviors can be assessed to suggest areas of further improvement, using assessment tools such as the Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form (NCBRF).\n\nChallenging behavior in people with developmental disabilities may be caused by a number of factors, including biological (pain, medication, the need for sensory stimulation), social (boredom, seeking social interaction, the need for an element of control, lack of knowledge of community norms, insensitivity of staff and services to the person's wishes and needs), environmental (physical aspects such as noise and lighting, or gaining access to preferred objects or activities), psychological (feeling excluded, lonely, devalued, labelled, disempowered, living up to people's negative expectations) or simply a means of communication. A lot of the time, challenging behavior is learned and brings rewards and it is very often possible to teach people new behaviors to achieve the same aims. Challenging behavior in people with developmental disabilities can often be associated with specific mental health problems.\n\nExperience and research suggests that what professionals call \"challenging behavior\" is often a reaction to the challenging environments that those providing services create around people with developmental disabilities. \"Challenging behavior\" in this context is a method of communicating dissatisfaction with the failure of those providing services to focus on what kind of life makes most sense to the person, and is often the only recourse a developmentally disabled person has against unsatisfactory services or treatment and the lack of opportunities made available to the person. This is especially the case where the services deliver lifestyles and ways of working that are centered on what suits the service provider and its staff, rather than what best suits the person.\n\nIn general, behavioral interventions or what has been termed applied behavior analysis has been found to be effective in reducing specific challenging behavior. Recently, efforts have been placed on developing a developmental pathway model in the behavior analysis literature to prevent challenging behavior from occurring.\n\nThroughout history, people with developmental disabilities have been viewed as incapable and incompetent in their capacity for decision-making and development. Until the Enlightenment in Europe, care and asylum was provided by families and the Church (in monasteries and other religious communities), focusing on the provision of basic physical needs such as food, shelter and clothing. Stereotypes such as the dimwitted village idiot, and potentially harmful characterizations (such as demonic possession for people with epilepsy) were prominent in social attitudes of the time.\n\nEarly in the twentieth century, the eugenics movement became popular throughout the world. This led to the forced sterilization and prohibition of marriage in most of the developed world and was later used by Hitler as rationale for the mass murder of mentally challenged individuals during the Holocaust. The eugenics movement was later thought to be seriously flawed and in violation of human rights and the practice of forced sterilization and prohibition from marriage was discontinued by most of the developed world by the mid 20th century.\n\nThe movement towards individualism in the 18th and 19th centuries, and the opportunities afforded by the Industrial Revolution, led to housing and care using the asylum model. People were placed by, or removed from, their families (usually in infancy) and housed in large institutions (of up to 3,000 people, although some institutions were home to many more, such as the Philadelphia State Hospital in Pennsylvania which housed 7,000 people through the 1960s), many of which were self-sufficient through the labor of the residents. Some of these institutions provided a very basic level of education (such as differentiation between colors and basic word recognition and numeracy), but most continued to focus solely on the provision of basic needs. Conditions in such institutions varied widely, but the support provided was generally non-individualized, with aberrant behavior and low levels of economic productivity regarded as a burden to society. Heavy tranquilization and assembly line methods of support (such as \"birdfeeding\" and cattle herding) were the norm, and the medical model of disability prevailed. Services were provided based on the relative ease to the provider, not based on the human needs of the individual.\n\nIgnoring the prevailing attitude, Civitans adopted service to the developmentally disabled as a major organizational emphasis in 1952. Their earliest efforts included workshops for special education teachers and daycamps for disabled children, all at a time when such training and programs were almost nonexistent. In the United States, the segregation of people with developmental disabilities wasn't widely questioned by academics or policy-makers until the 1969 publication of Wolf Wolfensberger's seminal work \"The Origin and Nature of Our Institutional Models\", drawing on some of the ideas proposed by SG Howe 100 years earlier. This book posited that society characterizes people with disabilities as deviant, sub-human and burdens of charity, resulting in the adoption of that \"deviant\" role. Wolfensberger argued that this dehumanization, and the segregated institutions that result from it, ignored the potential productive contributions that all people can make to society. He pushed for a shift in policy and practice that recognized the human needs of \"retardates\" and provided the same basic human rights as for the rest of the population.\n\nThe publication of this book may be regarded as the first move towards the widespread adoption of the social model of disability in regard to these types of disabilities, and was the impetus for the development of government strategies for desegregation.Successful lawsuits against governments and an increasing awareness of human rights and self-advocacy also contributed to this process, resulting in the passing in the U.S. of the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act in 1980.\n\nFrom the 1960s to the present, most U.S. states have moved towards the elimination of segregated institutions. Along with the work of Wolfensberger and others including Gunnar and Rosemary Dybwad, a number of scandalous revelations around the horrific conditions within state institutions created public outrage that led to change to a more community-based method of providing services.\nBy the mid-1970s, most governments had committed to de-institutionalization, and had started preparing for the wholesale movement of people into the general community, in line with the principles of normalization. In most countries, this was essentially complete by the late 1990s, although the debate over whether or not to close institutions persists in some states, including Massachusetts.\n\nIndividuals with developmental disabilities are not fully integrated into society. Person Centered Planning and Person Centered Approaches are seen as methods of addressing the continued labeling and exclusion of socially devalued people, such as people with a developmental disability label, encouraging a focus on the person as someone with capacities and gifts, as well as support needs.\n\nToday, support services are provided by government agencies, non-governmental organizations and by private sector providers. Support services address most aspects of life for people with developmental disabilities, and are usually theoretically based in community inclusion, using concepts such as social role valorization and increased self-determination (using models such as Person Centred Planning). Support services are funded through government block funding (paid directly to service providers by the government), through individualized funding packages (paid directly to the individual by the government, specifically for the purchase of services) or privately by the individual (although they may receive certain subsidies or discounts, paid by the government). There also are a number of non-profit agencies dedicated to enriching the lives of people living with developmental disabilities and erasing the barriers they have to being included in their community.\n\nEducation and training opportunities for people with developmental disabilities have expanded greatly in recent times, with many governments mandating universal access to educational facilities, and more students moving out of special schools and into mainstream classrooms with support.\n\nPost-secondary education and vocational training is also increasing for people with these types of disabilities, although many programs offer only segregated \"access\" courses in areas such as literacy, numeracy and other basic skills. Legislation (such as the UK's Disability Discrimination Act 1995) requires educational institutions and training providers to make \"reasonable adjustments\" to curriculum and teaching methods in order to accommodate the learning needs of students with disabilities, wherever possible. There are also some vocational training centers that cater specifically to people with disabilities, providing the skills necessary to work in integrated settings, one of the largest being Dale Rogers Training Center in Oklahoma City. (See also Intensive interaction)\n\nMany people with developmental disabilities live in the general community, either with family members, in supervised-group homes or in their own homes (that they rent or own, living alone or with flatmates). At-home and community supports range from one-to-one assistance from a support worker with identified aspects of daily living (such as budgeting, shopping or paying bills) to full 24-hour support (including assistance with household tasks, such as cooking and cleaning, and personal care such as showering, dressing and the administration of medication). The need for full 24-hour support is usually associated with difficulties recognizing safety issues (such as responding to a fire or using a telephone) or for people with potentially dangerous medical conditions (such as asthma or diabetes) who are unable to manage their conditions without assistance.\n\nIn the United States, a support worker is known as a Direct Support Professional (DSP). The DSP works in assisting the individual with their ADLs and also acts as an advocate for the individual with a developmental disability, in communicating their needs, self-expression and goals.\n\nSupports of this type also include assistance to identify and undertake new hobbies or to access community services (such as education), learning appropriate behavior or recognition of community norms, or with relationships and expanding circles of friends. Most programs offering at-home and community support are designed with the goal of increasing the individual's independence, although it is recognized that people with more severe disabilities may never be able to achieve full independence in some areas of daily life.\n\nSome people with developmental disabilities live in residential accommodation (also known as group homes) with other people with similar assessed needs. These homes are usually staffed around the clock, and usually house between 3 and 15 residents. The prevalence of this type of support is gradually decreasing, however, as residential accommodation is replaced by at-home and community support, which can offer increased choice and self-determination for individuals. Some U.S. states still provide institutional care, such as the Texas State Schools. The type of residential accommodation is usually determined by the level of developmental disability and mental health needs.\n\nEmployment support usually consists of two types of support:\n\nWorkers with developmental disabilities have historically been paid less for their labor than those in the general workforce, although this is gradually changing with government initiatives, the enforcement of anti-discrimination legislation and changes in perceptions of capability in the general community.\n\nIn the United States, a variety of initiatives have been launched in the past decade to reduce unemployment among workers with disabilities—estimated by researchers at over 60%. Most of these initiatives are directed at employment in mainstream businesses. They include heightened placement efforts by the community agencies serving people with developmental disabilities, as well as by government agencies.\n\nAdditionally, state-level initiatives are being launched to increase employment among workers with disabilities. In California, the state senate in 2009 created the Senate Select Committee on Autism and Related Disorders. The Committee has been examining additions to existing community employment services, and also new employment approaches. Committee member Lou Vismara, chairman of the MIND Institute at University of California, Davis, is pursuing the development of a planned community for persons with autism and related disorders in the Sacramento region. Another committee member, Michael Bernick, the former director of the state labor department, has established a program at the California state university system, starting at California State University East Bay, to support students with autism on the college level. Other Committee efforts include mutual support employment efforts, such as disability job networks, job boards, and identifying business lines that build on the strengths of persons with disabilities.\n\nNon-vocational day services are usually known as day centers, and are traditionally segregated services offering training in life skills (such as meal preparation and basic literacy), center-based activities (such as crafts, games and music classes) and external activities (such as day trips). Some more progressive day centers also support people to access vocational training opportunities (such as college courses), and offer individualized outreach services (planning and undertaking activities with the individual, with support offered one-to-one or in small groups).\n\nTraditional day centers were based on the principles of occupational therapy, and were created as respite for family members caring for their loved ones with disabilities. This is slowly changing, however, as programs offered become more skills-based and focused on increasing independence.\n\nAdvocacy is a burgeoning support field for people with developmental disabilities. Advocacy groups now exist in most jurisdictions, working collaboratively with people with disabilities for systemic change (such as changes in policy and legislation) and for changes for individuals (such as claiming welfare benefits or when responding to abuse). Most advocacy groups also work to support people, throughout the world, to increase their capacity for self-advocacy, teaching the skills necessary for people to advocate for their own needs.\n\nOther types of support for people with developmental disabilities may include:\n\nPrograms are set up around the country in hopes to educate individuals with and without developmental disabilities. Studies have been done testing specific scenarios on how what is the most beneficial way to educate people. Interventions are a great way to educate people, but also the most time consuming. With the busy schedules that everybody has, it is found to be difficult to go about the intervention approach. Another scenario that was found to be not as beneficial, but more realistic in the time sense was Psychoeducational approach. They focus on informing people on what abuse is, how to spot abuse, and what to do when spotted. Individuals with developmental disabilities don't only need the support programs to keep them safe, but everybody in society needs to be aware of what is happening and how to help everybody prosper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6919200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6919200", "title": "Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger", "text": "Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger\n\nDorothy Marie \"Dottie\" Metcalf-Lindenburger (born May 2, 1975 in Colorado Springs, Colorado) is a former American astronaut. She married Jason Metcalf-Lindenburger, a seventh grade teacher at the time, in 2000, and they have 1 daughter together. She was a science teacher at Hudson's Bay High School in Vancouver, Washington when she was selected in 2004 as an Educator Mission Specialist. She was the first Space Camp alumna to become an astronaut.\n\n\n\n\n\nMetcalf-Lindenburger was selected by NASA in May 2004 as an Astronaut Candidate. Astronaut Candidate Training includes orientation briefings and tours, numerous scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in Shuttle and International Space Station systems, physiological training, T-38 flight training, and water and wilderness survival training. Successful completion of this training in February 2006 qualified her as a NASA Astronaut. She served as a Mission Specialist on STS-131, an April 2010 Space Shuttle mission to the International Space Station. The mission's primary payload was the Multi-Purpose Logistics Module.\n\nOn July 20, 2009, Metcalf-Lindenburger sang the National Anthem at the Houston Astros game against the St. Louis Cardinals in celebration of the 40th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. She has been a long-time lead singer with the all-astronaut rock band, \"Max Q\".\n\nOn April 16, 2012, NASA announced that Metcalf-Lindenburger would command the undersea exploration mission aboard the Aquarius underwater laboratory, scheduled to begin on June 11, 2012 and last twelve days. The NEEMO 16 crew successfully \"splashed down\" at 11:05 am on June 11. On the morning of June 12, Metcalf-Lindenburger and her crewmates officially became aquanauts, having spent over 24 hours underwater. The crew safely returned to the surface on June 22.\n\nMetcalf-Lindenburger retired from NASA on June 13, 2014, to live and work in the Seattle area.\n\nSTS-131 Discovery (April 5 to April 20, 2010), a resupply mission to the International Space Station, was launched at night from the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. On arrival at the station, Discovery’s crew dropped off more than 27,000 pounds of hardware, supplies and equipment, including a tank full of ammonia coolant that required three spacewalks to hook up, new crew sleeping quarters and three experiment racks. On the return journey, Leonardo, the Multi-Purpose Logistics Module (MPLM) inside Discovery’s payload bay, was packed with more than 6,000 pounds of hardware, science results and trash. The STS-131 mission was accomplished in 15 days, 02 hours, 47 minutes and 10 seconds and traveled 6,232,235 statute miles in 238 Earth orbits.\n\n"}
{"id": "20373880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20373880", "title": "Elin Hilderbrand", "text": "Elin Hilderbrand\n\nElin Hilderbrand is an American writer mostly of romance novels. Hilderbrand's novels have all been set on and around Nantucket Island where she lives with three children. She was born and raised in Collegeville, Pennsylvania, is a graduate of Johns Hopkins University, and was previously a teaching/writing fellow at the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nThe \"New York Post\" called Elin Hilderbrand \"The queen of summer beach read\".\n\nHilderbrand spent her summers on Cape Cod, \"playing touch football at low tide, collecting sea glass, digging pools for hermit crabs, swimming out to the wooden raft off shore,\" until her father died in a plane crash when she was sixteen. She spent the next summer working, doing piecework in a factory that made Halloween costumes; she promised herself that the goal for the rest of her life would be that she would always have a real summer. She moved to Nantucket in July 1993, took a job as \"the classified ads girl\" at a local paper, and later started writing.\n\nHer first novels were published by St. Martin's Press. With \"A Summer Affair\", published in 2008, she moved to Little, Brown and Company.\n\nShe had a double mastectomy in June 2014. \n\n\"The Perfect Couple\" Elin Hilderbrand's first murder mystery was published in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "54337097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54337097", "title": "Elizabeth Marney Conner", "text": "Elizabeth Marney Conner\n\nElizabeth Marney Conner (pen name Paul Veronique; February 26, 1856 – ?) was a 19th-century American dramatic reader and educator, and the founder of the Buffalo School of Elocution. She published recitations in both prose and verse, and was also the author of an operetta.\n\nElizabeth Marney was born in Rouses Point, New York, February 26, 1856. \n\nAt the age of 18, she married Marcus A. Conner, of Burlington, Vermont, who died in 1881 in a drowning accident, leaving her with two young sons to care for and educate. It was then Conner began to consider her ambitions. With decided abilities for music, literature and the drama, circumstances led her to choose some form of dramatic work, and she began the careful study of elocution. In January, 1884, the Buffalo School of Elocution and Literature was opened by Conner, and after then, she rapidly succeeded as teacher and artist in her profession, having gained for herself and school an enviable local reputation, and being well-known in a far wider territory. Her lecture on \"Expression\" with illustrative readings was in demand from school, pulpit and platform. \n\nShe published recitations in both prose and verse under the pen-name \"Paul Veronique,\" a strong poem, \"Death of Samson\". She also composed a song entitled \"Be not so Sure\", which was well received, and was also the author of the operetta \"Eulalie, a Fairy Operetta in Two Acts, for Children\" (libretto by Conner, music by Mary M. Howard). Although her success as a teacher and reader was exceptional, it was considered by many that her true place was on the stage. She had a strong personality and magnetic presence, intense dramatic fervor, a fine voice and versatile powers of expression.\n\nConner came to Buffalo with the object of establishing a training school of elocution and English literature. She made arrangements with the YMCA, and secured the necessary rooms for her venture before the outside doors were on the new building, which was nearing completion. The Buffalo School of Elocution and Literature was opened on the January 10, 1884, and was, from the beginning, a success. Establishing an institution of learning in a large city necessitated long hours; but the results were exemplary.\n\nThe methods employed by Conner were far advanced than any ever before attempted in Buffalo. The physical and vocal drill class was a novelty, and was, from the first, highly prized by the students. The vocal practice eradicated all nasal, shrill, and guttural tones, while the Delsarte method of exercising every muscle of the frame was beneficial to the body. As a preliminary to graduation from the Training School of Elocution, each pupil was required to give a public reading, the audience consisting of invited friends. These entertainments, in Association Hall, afforded a literary treat to the audience, and were an index of the accomplishments to be achieved by a course of study in such a school and under a teacher whose refining influence left an indelible impression on the pupil.\n\nAt the close of the second year of the school, three pupils were graduated with honor. One became a teacher of elocution in the Buffalo High School. Another was for a long time associated with Conner in the school work. The third became a professional reader. On the completion of the third year, three more pupils received diplomas. One of that number, subsequently received the degree of Bachelor of Oratory at the Monroe School in Boston. The following year witnessed the graduation of six more pupils, some of whom became employed in the theatrical profession, in lecturing, reading, and teaching. Seven pupils were graduated in the class of 1888, and a larger number of juniors received certificates than at any previous year. Aside from the graduates' and postgraduates' recitals, the school gave frequent entertainments, such as \"Shakespeare\" and \"Longfellow\" afternoons, \"Dickens,\" \"Bryant,\"' and \"Whittier\" evenings. Special lectures were given in connection with the regular course of study.\n\nOwing to the constant increase of business, it became necessary for Conner to seek larger and more commodious quarters than the WMCA building afforded. A new location, located at the junction of Mohawk, Genesee and Pearl streets, was secured. It was enlarged by establishing a second department, the Conservatory of Music under the able direction of Mary M. Howard, of Buffalo. After operating the school for more than a decade, Conner left Buffalo in 1898 to give elocution recitals on a tour of the Pacific coast. She remained in the west for several years, working with a western college, before returning to New York in 1905. A follower of Christian Science, in 1906, in Buffalo, she was one of the founders of the International Progressive Thought League, along with Grace Carew Sheldon. She traveled to Detroit and established a Progressive Thought reading room there.\n\nLeaving Buffalo again, around 1909, Conner resumed her speaking and writing efforts, mainly throughout New York State. She published a book \"The Golden Pomegranates of Eden\" which dealt with sex education and worked for fifteen years on a book \"The Moon Faery\". In 1931, she returned to Buffalo for its centennial celebration, advising that she was working and speaking as a peace activist. At the time, she was living in Brooklyn. In 1932, she returned to Buffalo to speak at a Women’s Democratic Club meeting.\n\nShe was buried at Elmwood Cemetery, Burlington, Vermont.\n\n"}
{"id": "56535809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56535809", "title": "Erick Guerrero", "text": "Erick Guerrero\n\nErick Guerrero is an associate professor at the University of Southern California, Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work with a courtesy appointment at the Marshall School of Business.\n\nGuerrero grew up in Mexico City and currently works and lives in Los Angeles, CA with his wife and daughter.\nGuerrero obtained a degree clinical psychology at the Universidad de las Americas in Mexico City and his PhD in social work in management at the University of Chicago. Trained as an organizational and implementation scientist, his program of research focuses on three inter-related areas associated with improving standards of care for vulnerable populations.\n\nDr. Guerrero would eventually receive the tenure as an Associate Professor from the University of Southern California, Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work. Guerrero has been expanding the scope of his research studies to implementation of evidence-based practices in different health care areas. Most recently, Dr. Guerrero heads the team of Integrated Substance Abuse Treatment to Eliminate Disparities for the University of Southern California, Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work.\n\nHe spent 13 years providing domestic violence and substance abuse counseling in Chicago This experience led him to obtaining a Ph.D. in macro social work, writing more than 50 articles in this area. He also leads innovative research on organizational capacity to improve delivery of health care for underserved populations. He has developed the evidence to inform manager's practices to achieve results for clients from ethnic minority backgrounds. His influential scholarship in management and health care has been acknowledged by several organizations.\n\nDr. Guerrero is one of few scholars in social work management with a highly funded research agenda to train new investigators and conduct large studies in health care.\n\n"}
{"id": "58767685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58767685", "title": "Federation of All Pakistan Universities Academic Staff Association", "text": "Federation of All Pakistan Universities Academic Staff Association\n\nFederation of All Pakistan Universities Academic Staff Association also known as FAPUASA is an association of the universities academic staff all over Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "17814996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17814996", "title": "Hinckley Institute of Politics", "text": "Hinckley Institute of Politics\n\nThe Hinckley Institute of Politics is a nonpartisan institute located on the University of Utah campus in Salt Lake City, Utah. Its purpose is \"to engage students in transformative experiences and provide political thought leadership\" through involving students in practical politics and in governmental, civic and political processes.\n\nKnown for its internship program which has sent thousands of students to local, national, and global internship opportunities, the Hinckley Institute also provides educational programs for students, public school teachers and the general public.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute was founded by Robert H. Hinckley in 1965 as a way to engage students in government and “encourage the youngest and best minds to enter into politics.” Since that time, the Hinckley Institute has helped to provide more than 7,000 students with internships opportunities. Students have been placed with various organizations, such as public offices, elected officials, non-government organizations, for-profit corporations, political campaigns, and non-profits.\n\nIn addition to internships, the Hinckley Institute offers publicly available political forums, scholarships, classes, excursions to Washington DC and a campaign management minor.\n\nSince its founding in 1965, the Hinckley Institute has been led by five directors.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute has provided University of Utah students with internship opportunities since 1966 and currently sends around 350 students every year to local, legislative, national, and global internships.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute sends approximately 150 students each year to the most prestigious organizations in the Salt Lake City area. Students must register for at least three hours of course credit to participate. HNKLY classes are subject to standard tuition rates. Students can calculate their tuition costs here. Internships are available all semesters and open to students of all majors. Hinckley interns who have worked in local internships have done things like: serve as campaign managers, scheduling coordinators, and volunteer supervisors for races in Utah and have worked in local offices for U.S. Senators and Congressmen, mayors, the Utah Lt. Governor’s office, the Attorney General’s office and the Chamber of Commerce. They have also worked in a number of non-profit organizations such as the American Cancer Society and the Utah Disability Law Center.\n\nHinckley Interns function as support staff to aid legislators during the spring semester of each year. An intern may be asked to track legislation, write speeches, attend committee meetings, research issues, and analyze bills. Hinckley interns at the Utah State Legislature must adapt to a rigorous work schedule, take initiative in planning and organizing, and develop an effective working relationship with legislators. The Utah State Legislature Internship program offers students unparalleled access to the Utah legislative process. Interns serve as full-time staff to legislators, lobbyists, and the media during the 45-day legislative session that begin in late January and work on a part-time basis in the weeks preceding the start of the session. Legislative interns are not able to take other classes during this session due to the full-time work schedule. Each legislative intern is paid $2,775 by the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel. State legislative interns represent the University of Utah and the Hinckley Institute of Politics, and therefore, the highest conduct is expected.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute of Politics has sent interns to Washington, D.C. since 1973, providing more than 100 students annually with full-time, paid internships in a variety of government institutions, public advocacy groups, and media/consulting firms. Hinckley interns are provided internship scholarships to cover expenses (if internship is unpaid), subsidized housing in central DC apartments, and up to 12 hours of academic credit.\n\nThese interns work for members of the Utah delegation on Capitol Hill, the U.S. Supreme Court, and major think tanks that affect American national policy. Offices that have hosted Hinckley interns include the Department of Health and Human Services, the Democratic National Committee, the Republican National Committee, the House Committee on International Relations, and the White House. Students shadow legislators, congressmen and senators as well as learn the methods of lobbying, media coverage, and communication within the U.S. national government.\n\nIn 2008 the Hinckley Institute of Politics teamed up with the Li Ka-shing Foundation in Hong Kong, China to send five students from the University of Utah and seven students from Shantou University in Shantou, China to work as student journalists during the 2008 presidential election. The students were led by Frank Folwell, former photography editor of \"USA Today\" and his wife Sherry Riccardi. The students attended both the Democratic and Republican Conventions. From there they traveled to Washington, D.C. where they established their headquarters in the offices of Policy Impact, a lobbying and public relations organization under the leadership of William Nixon (a Fellow of the Hinckley Institute of Politics).\n\nThe Hinckley Institute runs the University of Utah’s Global Internship Program for all University of Utah students. The program has grown into what is considered in U.S. academia one of the most comprehensive and prestigious international internship programs. Global internships are available for undergraduate and graduate students of all disciplines in more than 50 countries. Academic credit and funding are available for fall, spring, and summer semesters. The goal of the Hinckley Institute's global internship program is to provide students with full-time, global work, cultural immersion, and career development opportunities.\n\nExamples of internships include working with the Scottish or Australian parliament, doing humanitarian work in South America and Africa, and teaching women and children in India about AIDS prevention.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute facilitates political forums during the academic school year, offering students the opportunity to hear from leading local, national, and global experts and opinion leaders, on topics ranging from local and municipal government and elections, resource management, environmental sustainment, housing, employment and education policies, national and international issues such as human rights, health care, constitutional law, the rights of women and minorities, the effects of the media, international relations and policies pertaining to the Middle East, Europe, South America and Asia, and the effects that U.S. national policy has on international events, terrorism and the economy.\n\nThe Hinckley Institute has hosted such notable guests as:\n\nThe Hinckley Institute offers several scholarships to University of Utah students who have exhibited outstanding academic performance, civic engagement and service to their local community. Scholarships are available as general academic scholarships and internship-specific scholarships. Loans are also available to students through the Hinckley Institute of Politics.\n\nAs part of the Hinckley Institute’s mission to engage students in practical politics, the Hinckley Institute offers several courses on campaign management, the U.S. Presidency and money’s influence in government. Students may receive credit for attending political forums, in addition to increasing their awareness of current local, national, and global events.\n\nEach semester, University of Utah students are provided with the opportunity to visit Washington D.C. with one of the University of Utah’s political science professors and the Hinckley Institute's program director over national internships. During Capital Encounter, students experience DC and the politics that surround it by visiting places and offices like Washington D.C.'s national monuments and memorials, meeting with members of the Utah delegation, touring the U.S Supreme Court, and visiting the headquarters of the CIA. In this one week excursion, students study the functions and inter-workings of the Executive, Legislative and Judicial branches of government, and are given the opportunity to meet with members of the President’s cabinet and discuss current events with top government officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "1390765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390765", "title": "Housekeeping", "text": "Housekeeping\n\nHousekeeping refers to the management of duties and chores involved in the running of a household, such as cleaning, cooking, home maintenance, shopping, laundry and bill pay. These tasks may be performed by any of the household members, or by other persons hired to perform these tasks. The term is also used to refer to the money allocated for such use. By extension, an office or organization, as well as the maintenance of computer storage systems.\n\nA housekeeper is a person employed to manage a household, and the domestic staff. According to the Victorian Era \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\", the housekeeper is second in command in the house and \"except in large establishments, where there is a house steward, the housekeeper must consider his/herself as the immediate representative of her mistress\".\n\nIt includes activities such as housecleaning, that is, disposing of rubbish, cleaning dirty surfaces, dusting and vacuuming. It may also involve some outdoor chores, such as removing leaves from rain gutters, washing windows and sweeping doormats. The term housecleaning is often used also figuratively in politics and business, for the removal of unwanted personnel, methods or policies in an effort at reform or improvement.\n\nHousecleaning is done to make the home look and smell better and be safer and easier to live in. Without housecleaning lime scale can build up on taps, mold grows in wet areas, smudges on glass surfaces, dust forms on surfaces, bacterial action make the garbage disposal and toilet smell and cobwebs accumulate. Tools used in housecleaning include vacuums, brooms, mops and sponges, together with cleaning products such as detergents, disinfectants and bleach.\n\nDisposal of rubbish is an important aspect of house cleaning. Plastic bags are designed and manufactured specifically for the collection of litter. Many are sized to fit common waste baskets and trash cans. Paper bags are made to carry aluminum cans, glass jars and other things although most people use plastic bins for glass since it could break and tear through the bag. Recycling is possible with some kinds of litter.\n\nOver time dust accumulates on household surfaces. As well as making the surfaces dirty, when dust is disturbed it can become suspended in the air, causing sneezing and breathing trouble. It can also transfer from furniture to clothing, making it unclean. Various tools have been invented for dust removal; Feather and lamb’s wool dusters, cotton and polyester dust cloths, furniture spray, disposable paper \"dust cloths\", dust mops for smooth floors and vacuum cleaners. Vacuum cleaners often have a variety of tools to enable them to remove dirt not just from carpets and rugs, but from hard surfaces and upholstery. Dusting is very important in hospital environments.\n\nExamples of dirt or \"soil\" are detritus and common spills and stains that exists in the home. Equipment used with a cleaner might be a bucket and sponge or a rag. A modern tool is the spray bottle, but the principle is the same.\n\nVarious household cleaning products have been developed to facilitate the removal of dust and dirt, for surface maintenance, and for disinfection. Products are available in powder, liquid or spray form. The basic ingredients determine the type of cleaning tasks for which they are suitable. Some are packaged as general purpose cleaning materials while others are targeted at specific cleaning tasks such as drain clearing, oven cleaning, lime scale removal and polishing furniture. Household cleaning products provide aesthetic and hygiene benefits but are also associated with health risks for the users, and building occupants. The US Department of Health and Human Services offers the public access to the Household Products Database. This database provides consumer information for over 4,000 products based on information provided by the manufacturer through the material safety data sheet.\n\nSurfactants lower the surface tension of water, making it able to flow into smaller tiny cracks and crevices in soils making removal easier. Alkaline chemicals break down known soils such as grease and mud. Acids break down soils such as lime scale, soap scum, and stains of mustard, coffee, tea, and alcoholic beverages. Some solvent-based products are flammable and some can dissolve paint and varnish. Disinfectants stop smell and stains caused by bacteria.\n\nWhen multiple chemicals are applied to the same surface without full removal of the earlier substance, the chemicals may interact. This interaction may result in a reduction of the efficiency of the chemicals applied (such as a change in pH value caused by mixing alkalis and acids) and in cases may even emit toxic fumes. An example of this is the mixing of ammonia-based cleaners (or acid-based cleaners) and bleach. This causes the production of chloramines that volatilize (become gaseous) causing acute inflammation of the lungs (toxic pneumonitis), long-term respiratory damage, and potential death.\n\nResidue from cleaning products and cleaning activity (dusting, vacuuming, sweeping) have been shown to impact indoor air quality (IAQ) by redistributing particulate matter (dust, dirt, human skin cells, organic matter, animal dander, particles from combustion, fibers from insulation, pollen, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) that gaseous or liquid particles become adsorbed to. The particulate matter and chemical residual will be of highest concentrations right after cleaning but will decrease over time depending upon levels of contaminants, air exchange rate, and other sources of chemical residual. Of most concern are the family of chemicals called VOCs such as formaldehyde, toluene, and limonene.\n\nVolatile organic compounds (VOCs) are released from many household cleaning products such as disinfectants, polishes, floor waxes, air-freshening sprays, all purpose cleaning sprays, and glass cleaner. These products have been shown to emit irritating vapors. VOCs are of most concern due to their tendency to evaporate and be inhaled into the lungs or adsorbed to existing dust, which can also be inhaled. It has been found that aerosolized (spray) cleaning products are important risk factors and may aggravate symptoms of adult asthma, respiratory irritation, childhood asthma, wheeze, bronchitis, and allergy.\n\nOther modes of exposure to potentially harmful household cleaning chemicals include absorption through the skin (dermis), accidental ingestion, and accidental splashing into the eyes. Products for the application and safe use of the chemicals are also available, such as nylon scrub sponge and rubber gloves.\n\nChemicals used for cleaning toilet, sinks, and bathtubs can find their way into our sewage water and can often not be effectively removed or filtered.\n\nThere is a growing consumer and governmental interest in natural cleaning products and green cleaning methods. The use of nontoxic household chemicals is growing as consumers become more informed of the health effects of many household chemicals, and municipalities are having to deal with the expensive disposal of household hazardous waste (HHW).\n\nBrooms remove debris from floors and dustpans carry dust and debris swept into them, buckets hold cleaning and rinsing solutions, vacuum cleaners and carpet sweepers remove surface dust and debris, chamois leather and squeegees are used for window-cleaning, and mops are used for washing floors. Protective gear including rubber gloves, face covers, and protective eyewear is also used when dealing with cleaning products.\n\nA home's yard and exterior are sometimes subject to cleaning. Exterior cleaning also occurs for safety, upkeep and usefulness. It includes removal of paper litter and grass growing in sidewalk cracks.\n\nHouse chores, or chores are components of housekeeping, and are usually in reference to specific tasks to be completed. Examples of house chores are: washing dishes; taking out trash after dinner.\n\nWhile housekeeping can be seen as an objective activity that can be done by either men or women, some people have argued that housekeeping is a site of historical oppression and gender division between men and women. Housekeeping also has a role in maintaining certain parts of the capitalist economy, including the division of home and work life, as well as industries that sell chemicals and household goods.\n\nA survey conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2014 came to the result that approximately 43 percent of men did food preparation or cleanup on any given day, compared with approximately 70 percent of women. In addition, 20 percent of men did housekeeping chores (including cleaning and laundry) on any given day, compared to approximately 50 percent of women.\n\nThe Swedish practice of döstädning (literally \"death cleaning\") is a simple living ethic and aesthetic which, while being primarily focused on not burdening those who survive you with your possessions, is also used as a permanent form of householding organization which secondarily focuses on keeping only those possessions which have strong value. \n"}
{"id": "22162359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22162359", "title": "Inside the Ivory Tower", "text": "Inside the Ivory Tower\n\n\"Inside the Ivory Tower\" is a ranking of the world's best university programs in international relations. The ranking is published by the \"Foreign Policy\" magazine in collaboration with the Teaching, Research, and International Policy (TRIP) Project at the College of William & Mary. The survey is based on input from \"all international relations scholars employed at a college or university who have an affiliation with a political science department or school of public policy and who teach or conduct research on issues that cross international borders.\"\n\nThe first TRIP Faculty Survey was conducted in 2004. One of the questions asked respondents to rank International Relations graduate schools in the U.S. The survey has since expanded to include undergraduate programs. The survey began including universities outside of the U.S. in 2009. The survey was last conducted in 2018, and asks the respondents to rank the top five international relations programs by degree level. The rankings are determined by the percentage of respondents who list a particular school.\n\n\"Methodology note for 2009 rankings: Undergraduate programs were ranked by individual country in this particular survey.\" \"For full undergraduate listings, see the original survey.\"\n\"Methodology note for 2007 rankings: Only schools based in the United States were ranked in this particular survey.\"\n\"Methodology note for 2005 rankings: Only the graduate programs of schools based in the United States were ranked in this particular survey.\"\n"}
{"id": "39219550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39219550", "title": "Jiří Svoboda (architect)", "text": "Jiří Svoboda (architect)\n\nJiří Svoboda (born April 25, 1961 in Ostrava, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech architect, designer, and university teacher. He specializes in research of architectural history of Zlín.\n"}
{"id": "2371361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2371361", "title": "John Berryman", "text": "John Berryman\n\nJohn Allyn McAlpin Berryman (born John Allyn Smith, Jr.; October 25, 1914 – January 7, 1972) was an American poet and scholar, born in McAlester, Oklahoma. He was a major figure in American poetry in the second half of the 20th century and was considered a key figure in the Confessional school of poetry. His best-known work is \"The Dream Songs\".\n\nJohn Berryman was born John Allyn Smith, Jr. in Oklahoma where he was raised until the age of ten, when his father, John Smith, a banker, and his mother, Martha (also known as Peggy), a schoolteacher, moved to Florida. In 1926, in Clearwater, Florida, when Berryman was eleven years old, his father shot and killed himself. Smith was jobless at the time, and he and Martha were both filing for divorce. Berryman was haunted by his father's death for the rest of his life and would later write about his struggle to come to terms with it in much of his poetry.\n\nIn \"Dream Song #143\", he wrote, \"That mad drive [to commit suicide] wiped out my childhood. I put him down/while all the same on forty years I love him/stashed in Oklahoma/besides his brother Will\". In \"Dream Song #145\", he also wrote the following lines about his father: \nSimilarly, in Dream Song #384, Berryman wrote:\nAfter his father's death at the rear entrance to Kipling Arms, where the Smiths rented an apartment, the poet's mother, within months, married John Angus McAlpin Berryman in New York City. The poet was renamed John Allyn McAlpin Berryman. Berryman's mother also changed her first name from Peggy to Jill. Although his stepfather would later divorce his mother, Berryman and his stepfather stayed on good terms. With both his mother and stepfather working, his mother decided to send him away to the South Kent School, a private boarding school in Connecticut. Then Berryman went on to college at Columbia College where he was president of the Philolexian Society, joined the Boar's Head Society, edited \"The Columbia Review\", and studied under the literary scholar and poet Mark Van Doren. Berryman would later credit Van Doren with sparking his interest in writing poetry seriously. For two years, Berryman also studied overseas at Clare College, Cambridge, on a Kellett Fellowship, awarded by Columbia. He graduated in 1936.\n\nRegarding Berryman's earliest success in poetry, the \"Norton Anthology of Modern Poetry\" editors note that \"Berryman's early work formed part of a volume entitled \"Five Young American Poets\", published by New Directions in 1940\". One of the other young poets included in the book was Randall Jarrell.\n\nBerryman would soon publish some of this early verse in his first book, also with New Directions Publishing, simply titled \"Poems\", in 1942. However, his first mature collection of poems, \"The Dispossessed\", appeared six years later, published by William Sloane Associates. The book received largely negative reviews from poets like Randall Jarrell who wrote, in \"The Nation\", that Berryman was \"a complicated, nervous, and intelligent [poet]\" whose poetry in \"The Dispossessed\" was too derivative of W. B. Yeats. Berryman would later concur with this assessment of his early work, stating, \"I didn't want to be \"like\" Yeats; I wanted to \"be\" Yeats.\"\n\nIn October 1942, Berryman married Eileen Mulligan (later Simpson) in a ceremony at St. Patrick's Cathedral, with Van Doren as his best man. The couple moved to Beacon Hill, where Berryman lectured at Harvard. The marriage ended in 1953 (a divorce was formalized in 1956), when Simpson finally grew weary of tolerating Berryman's affairs and acting as \"net-holder\" throughout his self-destructive personal crises. Simpson would memorialize her time with Berryman and his circle in her 1982 book \"Poets in Their Youth\".\n\nIn 1947, Berryman started an affair with a married woman named Chris, documented in a long sonnet sequence that he refrained from publishing, in part, because publication of the sonnets would have revealed the affair to his wife. However, he did eventually decide to publish the work, titled \"Berryman's Sonnets\", in 1967. The work included over one hundred sonnets.\n\nIn 1950, Berryman published a biography of the fiction writer and poet Stephen Crane whom he greatly admired, becoming \"the only biography by a leading American poet of the great American writer, Stephen Crane.\" This book was followed by his next significant poem, \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet\" (1956), which featured illustrations by the artist Ben Shahn and was Berryman's first poem to receive \"national attention\" and a positive response from critics. Edmund Wilson wrote that it was \"the most distinguished long poem by an American since T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\".\" When \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet and Other Poems\" was published in 1959, the poet Conrad Aiken praised the shorter poems in the book which he thought were actually better than \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet\".\n\nDespite the relative success of his third book of verse, Berryman's great poetic breakthrough occurred after he published \"77 Dream Songs\" in 1964. It won the 1965 Pulitzer Prize for poetry and solidified Berryman's standing as one of the most important poets of the post-World War II generation that included Robert Lowell, Elizabeth Bishop, and Delmore Schwartz. Soon afterwards, Berryman started receiving a great deal of national attention from the press, from arts organizations, and even from the White House which sent him an invitation to dine with President Lyndon B. Johnson (though Berryman had to decline because he was in Ireland at the time). Berryman was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1967, and that same year \"Life\" magazine ran a feature story on him. Also, that year the newly created National Endowment for the Arts awarded him a ten thousand dollar grant (though he admitted, when asked about the award by a Minneapolis reporter, that he had never heard of the organization before).\n\nBerryman also continued to work on the \"dream song\" poems at a feverish pace and published a second, significantly longer, volume entitled \"His Toy, His Dream, His Rest\", in 1968, which won the National Book Award for Poetry and the Bollingen Prize. The following year Berryman republished \"77 Dreams Songs\" and \"His Toy, His Dream, His Rest\" as one book titled \"The Dream Songs\", in which the character Henry serves as Berryman's alter ego. But in \"Love & Fame\" (1970), he dropped the mask of Henry to write more plainly about his life. Responses to the poems from critics and most of Berryman's peers ranged from tepid, at best, to hostile; now the collection is generally \"considered a minor work\". The character of Henry reappeared in a couple of poems published in \"Delusions Etc.,\" (1972), Berryman's last collection, which focused on his religious concerns and his own spiritual rebirth. The book was published posthumously and, like its predecessor, \"Love & Fame\", it is considered a minor work.\n\nBerryman taught or lectured at a number of universities including University of Iowa (in their Writer's Workshop), Harvard University, Princeton University, the University of Cincinnati, and the University of Minnesota, where he spent the majority of his career, except for his sabbatical year in 1962-3, when he taught at Brown University. Some of his illustrious students included W. D. Snodgrass, William Dickey, Donald Justice, Philip Levine, Robert Dana, Jane Cooper, Donald Finkel, and Henri Coulette. Philip Levine stated, in a recorded interview from 2009, that Berryman took his class extremely seriously and that \"he was entrancing ... magnetic and inspiring and very hard on [his students'] work ... [and] he was [also] the best teacher that I ever had\". Berryman was fired from the University of Iowa after a fight with his landlord led to him being arrested, jailed overnight, and fined for disorderly conduct and public intoxication. He turned to his friend, the poet Allen Tate, who helped him get his teaching job at the University of Minnesota.\n\nBerryman was married three times. According to the editors of \"The Norton Anthology of Modern Poetry\", he lived turbulently. During one of the many times he was hospitalized in order to detox from alcohol abuse, in 1970, he experienced what he termed \"a sort of religious conversion\". According to his biographer Paul Mariani, Berryman experienced \"a sudden and radical shift from a belief in a transcendent God ... to a belief in a God who cared for the individual fates of human beings and who even interceded for them.\" Nevertheless, Berryman continued to abuse alcohol and to struggle with depression, as he had throughout much of his adult life, and on the morning of January 7, 1972, he killed himself by jumping from the Washington Avenue Bridge in Minneapolis, Minnesota, onto the west bank of the Mississippi River.\n\nBerryman's poetry, which often revolved around the sordid details of his personal problems (in \"The Dream Songs\" but also in his other poems as well) is closely associated with the Confessional poetry movement. In this sense, his poetry had much in common with the poetry of his friend, Robert Lowell. The editors of \"The Norton Anthology of Modern Poetry\" note that \"the influence of Yeats, Auden, Hopkins, Crane, and Pound on him was strong, and Berryman's own voice—by turns nerve-racked and sportive—took some time to be heard.\"\n\nBerryman's first major work, in which he began to develop his own unique style of writing, was \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet\", published in 1956. In the long, title poem, which first appeared in \"Partisan Review\" in 1953, Berryman addressed the 17th century American poet Anne Bradstreet, combining the history of her life with his own fantasies about her (and inserting himself into the poem). Joel Athey noted, \"This difficult poem, a tribute to the Puritan poet of colonial America, took Berryman five years to complete and demanded much from the reader when it first appeared with no notes. \"The Times Literary Supplement\" hailed it as a path-breaking masterpiece; poet Robert Fitzgerald called it 'the poem of his generation.'\" Edward Hirsch observed that \"the 57 stanzas of \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet\" combine the concentration of an extended lyric with the erudition and amplitude of a historical novel\".\n\nBerryman's major poetic breakthrough came after he began to publish the first volume of \"The Dream Songs\", \"77 Dream Songs\", in 1964. The dream song form consisted of short, eighteen-line lyric poems in three stanzas. The poems are written in free verse although some stanzas contain irregular rhyme. \"77 Dream Songs\" (and its sequel \"His Toy, His Dream, His Rest\") centers on a character named \"Henry\" who bears a striking resemblance to John Berryman. However, Berryman was careful about making sure that his readers realized that \"Henry\" was not his equivalent, but rather a fictional version of himself (or a literary alter ego). In an interview, Berryman stated, \"Henry does resemble me, and I resemble Henry; but on the other hand I am not Henry. You know, I pay income tax; Henry pays no income tax. And bats come over and they stall in my hair — and fuck them, I'm not Henry; Henry doesn't have any bats.\"\n\nIn \"The New York Times\" review of \"77 Dream Songs\", John Malcolm Brinnin praised the book, declaring that \"[the book's] excellence calls for celebration\". And in \"The New York Review of Books\", Robert Lowell also reviewed the book, writing, \"At first the brain aches and freezes at so much darkness, disorder and oddness. After a while, the repeated situations and their racy jabber become more and more enjoyable, although even now I wouldn't trust myself to paraphrase accurately at least half the sections.\" In response to the perceived difficulty of the dream songs, in his 366th \"Dream Song\", Berryman facetiously wrote, \"These Songs are not meant to be understood, you understand. / They are only meant to terrify & comfort\".\n\nIn \"His Toy, His Dream, His Rest\", many of the dream songs are elegies for Berryman's recently deceased poet friends, including Delmore Schwartz, Randall Jarrell, and Theodore Roethke. Since this volume contained four times the number of poems that appeared in the previous volume, Berryman covered a lot more subject matter. For instance, in addition to the elegies, Berryman writes about his trip to Ireland as well as his own burgeoning literary fame.\n\nBerryman's last two volumes of poetry, \"Love & Fame\" and \"Delusions, Etc.\" featured free-verse poems that were much more straightforward and less idiosyncratic than \"The Dream Songs\". Prior to the publication of \"Love & Fame\", Berryman sent his manuscript to several peers for feedback, including the poets Adrienne Rich and Richard Wilbur, both of whom were disappointed with the poems which they considered inferior to the poems in \"The Dream Songs\". However, a number of Berryman's old friends and supporters, including the novelist Saul Bellow and the poets Robert Lowell and William Meredith, offered high praise for a number of the \"Love & Fame\" poems. Both \"Love & Fame\" and \"Delusions, Etc.\" were more openly \"confessional\" than Berryman's earlier verse, and since he embraced religion when he wrote these volumes, he also explored the nature of his spiritual rebirth in poems like \"Eleven Addresses to the Lord\" (which Lowell thought was one of Berryman's best poems and \"one of the great poems of the age\"), as well as \"Certainty Before Lunch\".\n\nIn 1977 John Haffenden published \"Henry's Fate & Other Poems\", a selection of dream songs that Berryman wrote after \"His Toy, His Dream, His Rest\", but had never published. In reviewing the book, \"Time\" magazine noted, \"Posthumous selections of unpublished poetry should be viewed suspiciously. The dead poet may have had good aesthetic reasons for keeping some of his work to himself. Fortunately, \"Henry's Fate\" does not malign the memory of John Berryman\".\n\nBerryman's \"Collected Poems--1937-1971\" edited and introduced by Charles Thornbury, was published in 1989. However, Robert Giroux decided to leave out \"The Dream Songs\" from the collection. In his review of the \"Collected Poems\", Edward Hirsch commented on this decision, stating, \"It is obviously practical to continue to publish the 385 dream songs separately, but reading the \"Collected Poems\" without them is a little like eating a seven-course meal without a main course.\" Hirsch also notes that, \"[\"Collected Poems\" features] a thorough nine-part introduction and a chronology as well as helpful appendixes that include Berryman's published prefaces, notes and dedications; a section of editor's notes, guidelines and procedures; and an account of the poems in their final stages of composition and publication.\"\n\nIn 2004, the Library of America published \"John Berryman: Selected Poems\", edited by the poet Kevin Young. In \"Poetry\" magazine, David Orr wrote:\nYoung includes all the Greatest Hits [from Berryman's career] ... but there are also substantial excerpts from Berryman's \"Sonnets\" (the peculiar book that appeared after \"The Dream Songs\", but was written long before) and Berryman's later, overtly religious poetry. Young argues that \"if his middle, elegiac period ... is most in need of rediscovery, then these late poems are most in need of redemption.\" It's a good point. Although portions of Berryman's late work are sloppy and erratic, these poems help clarify the spiritual struggle that motivates and sustains his best writing.\n\nAfter surveying Berryman's career and accomplishments, the editors of \"The Norton Anthology of Modern Poetry\" stated, \"What seems likely to survive of his poetry is its pungent and many-leveled portrait of a complex personality which, for all its eccentricity, stayed close to the center of the intellectual and emotional life of the mid-century and after.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6124498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124498", "title": "Joint Academic Coding System", "text": "Joint Academic Coding System\n\nThe Joint Academic Coding System (JACS) system is used by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) in the United Kingdom to classify academic subjects. It is due to be replaced by the Higher Education Coding System (HECoS) and the Common Aggregation Hierarchy (CAH) for the 2019/20 academic year.\n\nA JACS code for a single subject consists of a letter and three numbers. The letter represents the broad subject classification, e.g. F for physical sciences. The first number represents the principal subject area, e.g. F3 for physics, and subsequent numbers represent further details, similar to the Dewey Decimal System. The principal subject of physics, for example, is broken into 19 detailed subjects, represented by a letter plus three numbers: e.g., F300 represents physics, F330 environmental physics and F331 atmospheric physics.\n\nHESA and UCAS used to operate two different (though similar) subject coding systems - HESAcode and Standard Classification of Academic Subjects (SCAS) respectively. In 1996 a joint project was launched to bring these two system together to create a unified structure. A project team was established with two people from each of the two organisations. The project team became known as JACS since this was an acronym of their names (Jonathan Waller and Andy Youell from HESA, Clive Sillence and Sara Goodwins from UCAS).\n\nThe first operational version (v1.7) of the Joint Academic Coding System (retaining the JACS acronym) was published in 1999 and became operational in UCAS and HESA systems for the year 2002/03.\n\nAn update exercise took place in 2005 and JACS 2 was introduced for the academic year 2007/08. JACS 3 was introduced for the 2012/13 year.\n\nThe letter codes assigned to the subject areas and the letter + number codes assigned to the principal subjects in JACS 3 are:\n\nY codes (combined studies) are only used at the Course level in the HESA database and are not used to describe individual modules.\n\nCourse codes in the UCAS system are assigned by course providers and do not necessarily correspond to the JACS codes of the course subject. UCAS course codes are four characters in length but, unlike JACS codes, may consist of any combination of letters and numbers in any order. However, historically UCAS created course codes from the JACS subject code and many institutions continue to do this, which can lead to confusion between the two concepts.\n\nWhere a course involves more than one subject, UCAS historically created the course code based on an aggregation of the JACS codes. For courses which are split 50:50 between two subjects, a code with two letters and two numbers is used, which combines the principal subject codes which would be used for the two subjects if studied as individual degrees.\n\nConsider the BSc course Mathematics and Physics:\n\nAnother example is Music and Philosophy. The principal subject codes are W3 (Music) and V5 (Philosophy). The combined codes used are WV35 or VW35, while WV53, is also used.\n\nThe same letter can be used twice (if the two subjects are within the same general subject area), such as FF53 for Astronomy and Physics.\n\nCoding is done differently for courses such as \"Mathematics with Physics\", which is not the same as \"Mathematics and Physics\".\n\nThe format for such courses is Y1Z9 where:\n\nFor example, Mathematics with Physics would be represented by G1F3, but Physics with Mathematics would be represented by F3G1. Hence the order in which the two subjects are notated was important historically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "492165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492165", "title": "Le Cordon Bleu", "text": "Le Cordon Bleu\n\nLe Cordon Bleu (French for \"The Blue Ribbon\") is a hospitality education institution, with 23 schools on five continents. Its education focus is on hospitality management, culinary arts, and gastronomy.\n\nThe origin of the school name may come from the French Royal and Catholic \"Ordre des Chevaliers du Saint Esprit\". This was a select group of the French Nobility that had been knighted. The first creation of Royal Knights at the French Court was performed in 1576. The French Order of the Holy Spirit was for many centuries the most important highest distinction of the French Kingdom. Each member was awarded the Cross of the Holy Spirit, which hung from a blue silk ribbon. According to one story, this group became known for its extravagant and luxurious banquets, known as \"cordons bleus\". \nAt the time of the French Revolution, the monarchy and the Order were abolished, but the name remained synonymous with the excellent French cooking. Another theory has it that the blue ribbon simply became synonymous with excellence, and this was later applied to other fields such as cooking.\n\nThe name was adopted by a French culinary magazine, \"La Cuisinière Cordon Bleu\", founded by Marthe Distel in the late 19th century. The magazine began offering lessons by some of the best chefs in France. This grew to become a cooking school that opened in Paris in 1895 and which became recognized as one of the most elite cooking schools in the world. The school closed during the German occupation of Paris (1940–44). After the war, Madame Elisabeth Brassart relaunched the school both on rue du Faubourg Saint Honoré in Paris and at the Chateau de Montjean.\n\nBrassart managed the school until 1984; at the age of 87 she retired. She sold the school to the previous owner, André J. Cointreau, a descendant of both the Cointreau and Rémy Martin dynasties.\n\nIn 1933, former student Dione Lucas helped to open a school under the Le Cordon Bleu name in London, England. In 1988, shortly after buying Le Cordon Bleu, Cointreau purchased the London school, and has since launched schools in Adelaide and Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; Seoul, South Korea; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Tokyo and Kobe, Japan; Lima, Peru; São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Mexico City, Mexico; Bangkok, Thailand; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Le Cordon Bleu was due to open its first rural outpost with partner UCOL in Martinborough, New Zealand in early 2009, but the deal fell through, causing controversy there. In total, more than 20,000 students attend a Cordon Bleu school each year. \n\nIn the United States, 16 schools operated under the \"Le Cordon Bleu North America\" name through a licensing agreement with Career Education Corporation (CEC), a for-profit education company based in Chicago, Illinois. In 2009, the license was estimated to be worth $135 million.\n\nHowever, in light of the gainful employment rules implemented by the US Department of Education in 2015, CEC, which owned and operated the US schools, made the decision to sell the 16 campuses. When they failed to find a buyer they announced on 16 December 2015 that they will close all 16 Cordon Bleu campuses in the United States teaching out the program through September 2017.\nTheir last new students were accepted in January 2016. In 2014, Le Cordon Bleu North America generated $178.6 million in revenue and $70.6 million of operating losses.\n\nIn June 2016, The Securities and Exchange Commission requested documents and information regarding Career Education's fourth quarter 2014 classification of its Le Cordon Bleu campuses.\n\nIndependent of the Le Cordon Bleu North America Schools, Le Cordon Bleu has maintained a presence in the United States through their US office, Le Cordon Bleu Inc. Established in 1992, Le Cordon Bleu Inc, in New York City, serves to assist US students who wish to study abroad.\n\nLe Cordon Bleu is renowned for its Classic Cycle program that dates back to its founding at the start of the 20th century. This is the foundation program that continue to offer at their international campuses. \n\nThe Classic Cycle offered at a majority of the international campuses consists of six courses taught at three succeeding levels; three in \"cuisine\" and three in \"pâtisserie\" (pastry making). Each course leads to the award of a certificate at basic, intermediate, or advanced level. Students who complete all three levels in the same field are awarded the \"Diplôme de Cuisine\" or the \"Diplôme de Pâtisserie\". Those who complete all six courses are awarded the \"Grand Diplôme\". The \"Grand Diplome\" is one of the few culinary credentials that signify mastery of both pastry and culinary fundamentals.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, Le Cordon Bleu has been offering hospitality management degrees with up to 2000 students studying bachelor's or master's degrees level. Master's degrees are offered in Korea and Australia as well as an online degree in gastronomy tourism. Their Bachelor programs in Hotel Management, Restaurant Management, Food Entrepreneurship and Wine Entrepreneurship programs are delivered in France, Mexico, Australia, Peru, and Korea.\n\nAside from the CEC-run schools, each Cordon Bleu school offers its own list of culinary short courses open to the public, matching local demand. \n\nIn addition to its growing network of schools and programs, Le Cordon Bleu has an active products program through the publication of cookbooks, select food items and a line of kitchenware.\n\nFollowing Cointreau's purchase of the school, Le Cordon Bleu began to clamp down on unauthorized use of its name. As one example, in 2006, Cordon Bleu threatened legal action against a small family-owned restaurant in Ste. Anne, Manitoba, Canada, for trademark infringement. Although the restaurant had been operating under the name \"Cordon Bleu\" since 1963, and the owners asserted that no one could have mistakenly believed any connection between their \"little hick restaurant\" with the corporate giant, they felt that taking the issue to court would have bankrupted them. As a result, the Ste. Anne owners agreed to change their name and reached an undisclosed settlement with the larger company to pay for new signage and other costs.\n\nIn 2008, a student at the London school reportedly pulled out a chef's knife and threatened to kill himself after being told that he'd failed his Basic Cuisine exam. London papers reported that the ordeal led to a four-hour standoff with police.\n\nIn 2017, another student, who had spent her life savings of £40,000 in fees for the course, sued the college citing constant criticism, bullying, a money making attitude, and unfairness.\n\nIn her memoir \"My Life in France\" (Knopf), Julia Child, aided by her husband's great-nephew Alex Prud'homme, discusses her experiences attending the school in the late 1940s. This is one part of Julia Child's life portrayed in the feature film \"Julie & Julia\" (2009).\n\nLe Cordon Bleu culinary school served as the set for the 1954 movie “Sabrina,” in which Audrey Hepburn's character attends the famous French cooking school.\n\nIn 2007, an American writer, Kathleen Flinn, wrote \"The Sharper Your Knife, the Less You Cry\", the first insider's account of attending the modern Paris flagship school. Flinn's best-selling memoir recounts the modern day-to-day trials of the program, and provides a further history of the school. The film rights for Flinn's book were purchased by the TV division of 20th Century Fox; an adaptation is expected to be filmed in Paris. Another book about attending Le Cordon Bleu was published in 2008 in the United Kingdom, \"Sacré Cordon Bleu: What the French Know About Cooking\" by Michael Booth (Jonathan Cape). Like Flinn's book, it also features numerous classic French recipes.\nIn 1991, Le Cordon Bleu published its first English-language cookbook, \"Le Cordon Bleu at Home\". As printed in the inside cover, the book: \n\n\nAlumni of the Paris location include Julia Child, Giada De Laurentiis and Gastón Acurio.\nAlumni of the Los Angeles location include David Burtka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4042447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4042447", "title": "Lisa LaCroix", "text": "Lisa LaCroix\n\nLisa LaCroix is a Canadian actress and fashion model who began her career in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. After training as an actor in New York City's Circle in the Square Theatre School, she returned to Toronto, and starred in numerous Canadian and American television shows and movies. In 1996, she moved to Los Angeles to focus on American television acting.\n\nIn 2000, LaCroix became interested in the Human Potential Movement, studied to be a business coach, moved to the San Francisco Bay Area and began a private practice training and coaching business people in 2001. She cofounded Paragon Strategies in 2004 with two other trainers from San Francisco, which presently serves various businesses worldwide in optimizing their employee satisfaction and productivity.\n\nHer father is the famous photographer and jazz musician Pat LaCroix.Her sister is singer/songwriter, Dana LaCroix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59125527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59125527", "title": "Lois Graham", "text": "Lois Graham\n\nLois Graham (known early in her career as Lois Graham McDowell or Lois G. McDowell) (1925 – November 4, 2013) was a professor of thermodynamics and cryogenics. She was the first woman to earn a mechanical engineering PhD in the United States.\n\nGraham is remembered for her lifelong work recruiting young women into careers in science and engineering. She taught for nearly 40 years in the Illinois Institute of Technology's Mechanical, Materials and Aerospace Engineering program. Graham founded IIT's Women in Science and Engineering program, which recruited female high school students into science and engineering careers.\n\nGraham was born in 1925 and grew up in Troy, NY, one of three siblings. She initially wanted to be a doctor but could not afford medical school. An admirer of Amelia Earhart, Graham also wanted to be a pilot or flight attendant, but those professions at the time had height limitations of 5'3\" and weight limitations of 125 pounds. \"Well, unfortunately,\" Graham said in an interview, \"I outgrew that career.\" Interested in aviation, Graham considered aerospace engineering, but as with medical school, she could not afford the tuition.\n\nBy the time she graduated high school in the spring of 1942, Graham had settled on attending a state college for teachers in nearby Albany, NY. That summer, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), where Graham's father taught, announced that it would admit female students for the first time, and children of employees could attend for free. Graham enrolled, first attending summer classes, and then enrolling full-time, one of the first four women to be admitted. She followed an accelerated schedule that was available during World War II. Graham became one of the first two women to graduate with a degree at RPI (Class of 1946), and the first woman from the university to graduate with a degree in mechanical engineering.\n\nAfter graduating from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Graham worked as a test engineer at the Carrier Corporation, leaving after 18 months to pursue a master's degree. According to Graham, she was turned away by MIT (who requested \"every single textbook I had used when I was in college and every portion of that textbook I had covered\"), CalTech (who sent her a postcard stating, \"We do not accept women\"), and the University of Illinois (who told her, \"we cannot accept out-of-state students at this time\"), but was offered a teaching assistantship by the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT).\n\n\nIn 1949, Graham became the first female faculty member in IIT's engineering department, and the first female graduate student accepted into its Mechanical, Materials and Aerospace Engineering program. IIT had to make an adjustment upon her arrival: converting a small closet into a ladies restroom. Later that year, Graham earned a master's degree in mechanical engineering, the first woman at IIT to do so.\n\nEven early in her career, Graham received attention for being a woman in a male-dominated field. In September 1953, Graham was featured in Popular Science, which ran a picture of her, identified as \"Lois G. McDowell,\" with the caption:\nGraham was a fellow life member of the Society of Women Engineers, which she joined in 1952, two years after it was founded. At SWE, Graham's worked focused on increasing the number of women pursuing careers in engineering, science, and math. She wrote articles published by SWE advocating for improving the career counseling available to young women, and for increasing the recruitment of young women into the engineering field in order to end a shortage of engineers in the country. To bolster her arguments, Graham marshaled allies by citing other influential people, from outside academia, who had spoken favorably about women in engineering. For example, in one article, Graham employed a quote by Arthur Sherwood Flemming (then the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization, and later US President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare), in which he said, \"[W]e haven't got a chance in the world of taking care of that deficit of engineers . . . unless we get women headed in the direction of engineering schools.\" Graham argued that young women could not only help themselves, but also help their country, by pursuing careers in engineering.\n\nGraham served as SWE's fourth national president from 1955 until 1956. In 1955, SWE released a 40-page report entitled \"Women in Engineering\", aimed at influencing how female engineers were viewed by the public. Graham has said in an interview that an early title under consideration for the booklet was \"Petticoats and Slide Rules.\" The report listed accredited engineering programs, their curricula and prerequisites. It also included information about scholarships for women, statistics about women in the engineering field, and suggested reading lists. SWE distributed the \"Women in Engineering\" booklet to over 400 high schools around the United States, as well as colleges and universities, corporations and government agencies, and engineering societies. Ultimately, the enthusiastic response led to SWE running out of copies of \"Women in Engineering\", and a new edition was issued in 1958.\n\nIn 1959, Graham was awarded a PhD by IIT and became the first US woman to earn a mechanical engineering PhD. Her doctoral work focused on the field of combustion, and her dissertation thesis was entitled \"Effect of adding a combustible to atmosphere and surrounding diffusion flame\".\n\nIn 1974, Graham became assistant director for Engineering and Science. The following year, she was promoted to full professor, a rare rank for a woman to hold at the time. In 1977, she was named Program Director for IIT's Education and Experience in Engineering Program. She also served as the Director of IIT's Minorities in Engineering Program. In 1979, she was listed as a National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow. In 1980, she received the IIT Professional Achievement Award, and in 1991, the IIT Julie Beveridge Award.\n\nIn 1981, Graham founded IIT's Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) program. WISE employed women engineers in the private, public, and academic sectors, as well as graduate and undergraduate students, to engage directly with female high school students in order to increase enrollment of women into college engineering programs. WISE has a three-prong approach: encouraging high school girls in a supportive environment to pursue what are today termed STEM careers; engaging them in hands-on activities that expose them to various math- and science- related fields; and preparing them to pursue an undergraduate engineering degree by advising on course selection, college applications, and similar matters. Fall, winter, and summer programs were offered, usually free of charge, in which female high school students attended college lectures, networked with engineering students, faculty, and professionals, and participated in hands-on projects inside and outside of the laboratory, such as building a generator or planning a moon colony. WISE also educated parents, teachers, and counselors about the opportunities available to young women to pursue math and science careers.\n\nAfter 39 years at IIT, Graham retired in 1985 and moved back to upstate New York. On December 8, 1999, Graham was awarded the Person of the Millennium award by IIT students, an award, Graham said, she \"prized above all others.\"\n\nOn June 6, 2003, Graham was interviewed for SWE's Oral History Project. On September 19, 2003, Graham was inducted to the RPI Hall of Fame. Graham died on November 4, 2013, at the age of 88. An obituary in \"Watertown Daily Times\" wrote, \"To her beloved grandchildren she was simply 'Grandma Lois.' But to thousands of female mechanical engineers in this country, she was a pioneer and role model.\"\n\nIn 2010–2011, Graham was an American Association of University Women named scholarship honoree. She was also nominated to be a National Women's History Project National Women's History Month honoree in 2013. In 2015, Graham was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award by IIT.\n\nA 2007 article published in the \"International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education\" entitled \"Outstanding Women in Mechanical Engineering\" described Graham as, \"Recognised for her contributions as an educator to thermodynamics and cryogenics.\" RPI has written that Graham's \"academic and professional career paved the way for women and minority engineers.\" IIT has described her as a \"pioneer in the field of mechanical engineering.\"A student of Graham's, Sherita Caesar, was awarded the 2014 Women in Technology Award by the Women in Cable Telecommunications (WICT), the Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE), and \"Cablefax\". An IIT publication announcing the award stated that Caesar was \"inspired\" by Graham, who \"encouraged Caesar to teach others ad give to others in order to help her overcome her fear of presenting her master's thesis.\"\n\nGraham has also been credited for her work at the SWE and ASHRAE (where she was the first woman fellow) to improve career counseling available to young women, and for her recruitment of young women into science and engineering fields.\n\n\nGraham's obituary stated that she was a \"supporter of the arts, education and nature conservation,\" and that in the late 1990s, Graham and her husband became charter members of The Wild Center in New York (a 2015 finalist for the National Medal for Museum and Library Service).\n"}
{"id": "24399581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24399581", "title": "Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak", "text": "Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak\n\nMaharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak (1905 – 2001) was a classical dancer and teacher.\n\nGhulam Hussain was born in Calcutta. He was a Hindu who later converted - his early name of Maina]. Ghulam Hussain came to Pakistan in the 1960s. After staying in Karachi he moved to Lahore in 1971. He never performed in Pakistan. He was a disciple of Acchan Maharaj, the father of Birju Maharaj in India, who was a very well known performer. In a musical conference in Banaras in 1938, he was betstowed with the title \"Maharaj Kathak\" by his gurus, in the presence of singers and dancers.\n\nMaharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak migrated to Karachi after the partition and lived there before moving to Lahore in his later years. He has been a major exponent in the arts and teaching of classical kathak dance in Pakistan, for over four decades. Maharaj also appeared in 1995 Pakistani musical film \"Sargam\" directed by Syed Noor starring the singer Adnan Sami and his ex-wife Zeba Bakhtiar. This was followed by another appearance of Maharaj in a Pakistan Television play series.\n\nMaharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak was the guru of Pakistani classical dancer Nahid Siddiqui, Nighat Chaodhry. Fasih Ur Rehman, a discipline of Ghulam Hussain, has been carrying on his legacy.\n"}
{"id": "45079624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45079624", "title": "Malcolm Knapp Research Forest", "text": "Malcolm Knapp Research Forest\n\nThe Malcolm Knapp Research Forest is located in the Coast Mountains, about 60 km from Vancouver, in Maple Ridge, British Columbia. The forest is approximately 5,157 hectares and has many different types of terrain. The forest is home to some 400-year-old trees, though the vast majority of trees are 70–120 years old. It was a site of major logging from the 1800s to 1931, but was officially established as the UBC/Malcolm Knapp Research Forest in 1949 because of the major influence from the late UBC professor Malcolm Knapp. Although today it is dedicated to research and education, it is also a popular destination for trail hiking and camps. \n\nIn 1922 when the forestry program at UBC was just two years old, Malcolm Knapp, a professor of forestry, had a vision to conduct research for forestry. He taught courses on logging, wood technology and forestry products. At this time, the university only had a small forest on the edge of campus for research, so his influence was immense when the University of British Columbia took over management of the forest in 1949. His vision of having a large and vast forest became reality. This vision, along with his passion for salvaging and silviculture for the Forestry Program at UBC, was of great importance as his 41 years of service for the university ended in 1963. After his many years of service to the forest and the university, the Research Forest officially changed its name to Malcolm Knapp/UBC Research Forest in 1988, and then he died a year later.\n\nUBC also holds a spot at the top of one of the mountains for a liquid mirror telescope observatory (UBC LMTO). It was established in 1995 as part of development for liquid-mirror technology. The telescope overlooks the Fraser Valley and is far enough away from the city lights to provide a great research facility.\n\nThere are currently 84 research projects going on at the forest, all related to riparian management, silviculture, wildlife, hydrology, ecology, and other applied science fields. UBC also releases annual reports in which one can see what is going on in the forest, what research they are conducting and any updates on projects. Staff changes, silviculture reports (including clear-cuts, thinning, etc.), along with major events for the forest are all summarized in these reports. Please see external links for archives.\n\nThe forest is about . It measures 13 km from west to east and 4 km north to south. It contains every type of terrain found on Coastal B.C which means that it has a wide variety of many plants, animals and trees. The highest elevation is in the north-east corner and is about 1000m above sea level in the Golden Ears Mountains, and it spans down to sea level, touching Pitt Lake. Typically, the most precipitation that is seen at the forest is rain, which averages about 2200mm in the northern end of the forest. This end also receives snow in the winter. However, the south end is closer to sea level and receives around 3000mm of rain per year.\n\nMalcolm Knapp Research Forest is categorized in the Coast Western Hemlock Biogeoclimatic zone, with the lower portion of the forest in the dry maritime subzone and the upper portion in the very wet maritime subzone. It has a vast collection of trees, plants and animals including Douglas fir, western red cedar, western hemlock and amabilis fir trees. The forest still has some patches of intact old growth forest that is over 400 years old, but since ongoing research is being done, some of the forest is as young as 40 years old, though most of the forest is covered in trees that are about 70 years old. Some other trees and plants you can find are bigleaf maple, vine maple, skunk cabbage (yellow flower pictured beside), Oregon grape, salmonberry, and many ferns like sword fern and spiny wood fern.\n\nThe maximum trail length is about 8 km; that will take the average hiker around 3 hours to walk. The trails at Malcolm Knapp are categorized as an intermediate hike.\n\nThe south part of Malcolm Knapp Research Forest has an abundance of trails which are all colour coded into Red, Green, Yellow, and blue, with red being the easiest and blue being the hardest. Please see external links for a map of the trails.\n\nThe Loon Lake Trail is for guests of Loon Lake Research and Education Centre wishing to embark on this 6 km hike. Please see external links for a map of the trails.\n\nOn the trails at Loon Lake, there is a research and education center. Loon Lake is the largest lake in the forest, which has its own trail around the lake that will take about 6 hours to complete as it is 6 km in length. The lake opened an outdoor education camp in 2000, and now provides an area for forestry and environmental education, as well as outdoor recreation with activities such as:\n\n\nLoon Lake also houses Camp Goodtimes, a summer recreation program for children and teens affected by cancer and their families. It is divided into six weeks throughout July and August: four weeks for kids' camp, one week for teen, and one week for family. It is held at Loon Lake at no cost to participants. Camp Goodtimes is accredited by the British Columbia Camping Association and the Canadian Association of Pediatric Oncology Camps (CAPOC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32622440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32622440", "title": "Mexicali Institute of Technology", "text": "Mexicali Institute of Technology\n\nThe Mexicali Institute of Technology () is a college level technological institution located in the city of Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico. It started operations since 19 October 1981. The college is one of three technological institutes part of the national system of regional technological institutes in Baja California.\n\nThe Mexicali Institute of Technology began its activities on October 1981. The demand of new options of higher education level to give support and service to the productive sector and the community and efforts of the board of teachers along with federal, state and municipal authorities led to the birth of this Institute. Due to these reasons, the Mexicali Institute of Technology began offering High Education Level courses, developing Institutional Integrity with the industry private sector. Since a decade ago the Mexicali Institute of Technology also offers master's and doctoral degrees.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "7008554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7008554", "title": "Modern Montessori School", "text": "Modern Montessori School\n\nThe Modern Montessori School (MMS) is a private school in Amman, Jordan founded by Randa Amin Hasan. It caters to students from 3–18 years old, and is affiliated with the International Baccalaureate and accredited by the International Centre for Montessori Education (ICME). It was established in 1985 and is built on a 24,000 m2 piece of land. It is designed to meet international standards in school requirements. It offers a Montessori Early Childhood Education Programme from Nursery 1 to KG2; bilingual English/Arabic curriculum for grades 1-8; a specially formulated pre-IB Bridge Years (BYP) curriculum for grades 9 + 10; and IB curriculum for grades 11 + 12. This school is recognized by the International Baccalaureate \nOrganization as a full IB school. It offers the PYP system for grades 1-5 and the MYP system for grades 6-10 and finally the IB diploma for grades 11 and 12.\n\nIts students and administration hold an annual Model Arab League conference (\"AMAL\") as well as other yearly conferences, events, and seminars.\n\n"}
{"id": "51249043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51249043", "title": "NYU Tandon School of Engineering Lynford Lecture Series", "text": "NYU Tandon School of Engineering Lynford Lecture Series\n\nEvery year, the New York University Tandon School of Engineering hosts the Lynford Lecture Series which brings in a prominent thinker who explains complex information and important ideas with clarity and concision. The lecture series is sponsored by Tondra and Jeffrey Lynford and the School of Engineering's Institute for Mathematics and Advanced Supercomputing (IMAS). As of 2016, the lecture series featured three Nobel Prize winners, one Turing Award winner and alumnus of the School of Engineering, the inventor of Ethernet, a nominee of the Democratic Party for President of the United States, a top American nuclear scientist, and the co-founder and Chief Scientist of Sun Microsystems, among others.\n\nNotable lecturers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "52366769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52366769", "title": "NYU Veterans Writing Workshop", "text": "NYU Veterans Writing Workshop\n\nThe NYU Veterans Writing Workshop at New York University in Manhattan, New York is a free, non-partisan outreach program offered to the veteran community in and around New York City and is considered by some as the pre-eminent writing workshop for veterans.\n\nThe workshop began in 2008, founded by former United States Ambassador to Ireland Jean Kennedy Smith.\n\nNotable alumni of the workshop include:\nNYU Veterans Writing Workshop alumni have thus far won 1 National Book Award and other literary honors.\n\n"}
{"id": "35837498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35837498", "title": "National Classification of Levels of Training", "text": "National Classification of Levels of Training\n\nThe National Classification of Levels of Training (French: \"Nomenclature des niveaux de formation\") is a system used in France for statistical purposes to measure an individual's training. Two classifications are commonly used: The \"nomenclature des niveaux de formation\" (national classification of levels of training), established in 1969 by the \"Commission statistique nationale\" (national statistical commission), and the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED), validated by UNESCO in 1997 and used for international comparisons.\n\nThe first one is used by the Ministry of National Education, but also by the French employment agency, to classify jobseekers by education level, and by INSEE for the census, ...\n\nThe issue of classification reform arises from European degrees harmonization, including the phasing of final diplomas of undergraduate higher education (level III). However, even after the phasing, there are still many graduates. Thus, although the \"Certificat d'études primaires\" was officially abolished in 1989, which does not prevent to find today, in the French population, individuals who had stopped at this level of training.\n\nIt defines the levels of training in terms of duration.\n\nStaff with a job which not requires training beyond compulsory schooling.\n\nStaff with a job assuming a specialized training for a maximum of one year beyond the first cycle of secondary education, level of the \"certificat de formation professionnelle\" (vocational training certificate).\n\nStaff with a job normally requiring a level of training equivalent to the \"Brevet d'études professionnelles\" (BEP) (two years of education beyond the first cycle of secondary education) and to the \"Certificat d'aptitude professionnelle\" (CPC ). Provisionally, the training of the National diploma acquired.\n\nStaff with a job normally requiring a Baccalauréat, a \"brevet de technician\" (BT), a \"brevet supérieur d'enseignement commercial\" (BSEC) (three years of education beyond the first cycle of secondary education) . Provisionally, a \"brevet d'enseignement industrial\" (EIB), a \"brevet d'enseignement commercial\" (BEC).\n\nStaff holding a \"brevet professionnel\" or a \"brevet de maîtrise\" (two years of training minimum and professional practice after acquiring a level V degree).\n\nStaff with a job normally requiring training a \"Brevet de technician supérieur\" (technician's diploma), a \"Diplôme universitaire de technologie\", or end of the first cycle of higher education (three years of post-baccalaureat education since the reform aimed for a European harmonization of higher education)\n\nStaff with a job normally requiring training of equal or higher than that of the \"grandes écoles\" or Bachelor.\n\nBuilt in reference to the one of 1967, this classification refers to a skill level (responsibility in employment).\n\nStaff with a job normally requiring a level of training equivalent to the \"brevet d'études professionnelles\" (BEP) or the \"certificat d'aptitude professionnelle\" (CAP), and by equivalence, of the \"certificat de formation professionnelle des adultes\" (CFPA).\n\nThis level corresponds to a full qualification for the practice of a specific activity, with the ability to use instruments and techniques relating thereto. This activity involves chiefly the performance of a work which may be independently conduct within the limits of the techniques related thereto.\n\nStaff with a jobs of control or highly skilled worker and can attest a level of training equivalent to that of the \"brevet professionel\" (BP), the \"brevet de technicien\" (BT), a \"Baccalauréat professionel\" or a \"Baccalauréat technologique\".\n\nA degree of level IV requires more theoretical knowledge than the previous level. This activity involves chiefly technical work which can be performed independently and/or entail executive coaching (control).\n\nStaff with a jobs that normally requires a \"Diplôme universitaire de technologie\" (DUT) or a \"Brevet de technicien supérieur\" (BTS) or end of undergraduate higher education.\nA degree of Level III corresponds to the knowledge and skills level, though lacking the knowledge of the scientific basis of the areas concerned. Capabilities and knowledge required ensure to be able to work autonomously or independently responsibilities of design and/or coaching and/or management.\n\nStaff with a middle management job that normally requires a training of a Bachelor's degree level or a first-year Master's degree level.\n\nAt this level, the practice of an employment contract or independent means knowing the scientific foundations of the job, generally leading to autonomy in carrying out this activity.\n\nStaff with a middle management job that normally requires a training above the first-year Master's degree level.\n\nIn addition to strong knowledge of scientific basis of the job, a level I requires knowledge of process design and research.\n"}
{"id": "2287158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2287158", "title": "National Tournament of Academic Excellence", "text": "National Tournament of Academic Excellence\n\nThe National Tournament of Academic Excellence (NTAE) (formerly known as the Panasonic Academic Challenge [PAC]) is a national high school academic competition run by the Florida Department of Education. The tournament resembles the Florida's own Commissioner's Academic Challenge, which is a type of quiz bowl format. The NTAE had been run in June starting in 1988. Sponsorship from Panasonic ended in 2008 and after 2009 the tournament was not held for several years until was it revived again in 2014.\n\nThe format used in the NTAE is unique among all other national tournaments, and is based on the format used for the Commissioner's Academic Challenge, which is Florida's quizbowl state tournament for school districts. This is also the tournament used to select the team that represents Florida at the NTAE.\n\nWhile most tournaments involve two teams playing in a head-to-head format, the NTAE involves matches of between four and six teams playing against each other in the same competition room. Each team starts with 100 points.\n\nEach match is divided into three untimed periods. The first period consists of 20 questions, each worth five points. The second period consists of 20 questions, each worth ten points, and the final round consists of 25 questions, each worth fifteen points. Each question has a one-minute time limit in which teams may answer. Teams answering incorrectly are penalized the point value of the question. A team is eliminated from competition if their point total reaches zero, but this a very rare occurrence.\n\nAt the end of each period, each team participates in a written team question which has a variable time limit, and a variable number of questions. The written team question after each of the three periods is worth (respectively) a maximum of ten, twenty, and thirty points. There are no penalties for incorrect answers in this phase of the competition. These written questions are non-competitive, and each team may earn the maximum number of points.\n\nAt the end of each match, teams are ranked according to their point totals. A tie-breaker occurs only if a tie results among teams that will be advancing to a future match.\n\nAside from the written team questions, there are no bonus questions which are prevalent in most other quizbowl formats. There is also the absence of \"rebounding\" a missed question. That is, once a question is attempted, whether the answer given is correct or incorrect, the question ends, and no other team is given the opportunity to answer.\n\nAdding to the challenge, each team is permitted only one button to indicate they are ready to answer, and to lock out other teams from responding (aka \"buzzer\"). Most other formats allow each player to have their own buzzer.\n\nThe questions used in the NTAE are wholly unique among national tournaments. Unlike most other tournaments there are multiple choice and matching questions, some of which can be deceptively difficult. There are also \"fill-in-the-blank style questions,\" as well as free response questions (standard to high school quizbowl).\n\nWhile topics range across the academic canon, there is an overall de-emphasis of pop culture questions, and a marked increase in the number of mathematics questions (teams are provided calculators). Foreign language is also utilized often, with teams usually choosing from amongst French or Spanish questions (in the past, German and Latin were options, but these have been discontinued).\n\nThere are also visual questions displayed on a television monitor, and audio questions played from recordings. While these two question formats can be used for any question category, audio questions are most often used for music and foreign language questions, while video questions are most often used for art questions.\n\nThe tournament is usually held during the second or third week of June, starting on a Sunday, and ending on a Tuesday. The tournament is usually held at the convention center of the Contemporary Resort Hotel at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida.\n\nTeams are randomly assigned to a first round match (historically, each first round match has either four or five teams in each competition room). Winning teams automatically advance to the semifinals. Teams not winning in the first round are randomly assigned to a consolation match, and compete on Monday. Winners of each consolation match also advance to the semifinals.\n\nThere are usually three semifinal matches played on Tuesday morning. The top two teams from each semifinal advance to the championship round, held on Tuesday afternoon.\n\nCoaches are not permitted to challenge the game officials, though players are permitted to do so. Each match generally has at least one judge who is a specialist in each academic area.\n\nAn unusual feature of this tournament is that teams do not necessarily qualify based on performance during the past season, as is the case in most other national quizbowl tournaments. The Board of Education (or equivalent body) of each U.S. state and territory is given the power to select a team in any way they see fit. Some teams come from a single school, and are usually the quizbowl champion of that state. In other cases, the Board of Education gives selection power to a committee who chooses an all-star team from among that state's best players. Thus each state or territory can enter only one team, and is referred to at the tournament as (for example) Team Alabama or Team Oklahoma.\n\nAnother unique fixture of this tournament are the resources committed by corporate and government sponsorship. Since its inception, the tournament has been sponsored by the school systems of the Florida counties of Pinellas and Polk, with the Florida Department of Education joining in the tournament's third year. Herff Jones has also been sponsors since the first year of the tournament. Other past corporate sponsors have included Publix Supermarkets and Disney.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2008, Panasonic was the title sponsor of the event. The Pepsi Bottling Group was also a longtime sponsor.\n\nThis corporate sponsorship allows for one of the largest prize packages in high school quizbowl. The top six teams each earn trophies, which are sent to the governors of the respective states or territories. The members of each of the top three teams earn scholarships ($2000, $1000, and $500 per team member, respectively), and earn championship rings. An \"all-tournament\" team is selected based on geography and individual performance in the first round of competition. These players earn medals and scholarship money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19105236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19105236", "title": "Nebraska Department of Education", "text": "Nebraska Department of Education\n\nThe Nebraska Department of Education is the U.S. State of Nebraska's state education agency responsible for administering public education funding from the U.S. Department of Education and the Nebraska State Legislature. It is headquartered in Lincoln.\nNebraska is one of three states that opted to continue to buy ground meat containing finely textured beef as an additive for its school lunches in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1139962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139962", "title": "O (film)", "text": "O (film)\n\nO is a 2001 American drama film, and a modern adaptation of William Shakespeare's \"Othello\", set in an American high school. It stars Mekhi Phifer and Josh Hartnett.\n\nThe film's intended release date was April 1999, but due to the Columbine High School massacre, the film was shelved for two years by its original distributor, Miramax Films. Ultimately, it was sold along with director Kevin Smith's film \"Dogma\" to Lionsgate. It was directed by Tim Blake Nelson and written by Brad Kaaya. It contains many different styles of music, ranging from rap to opera. It was filmed in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nDuring a high school basketball game, Odin James (Mekhi Phifer) scores the basket that wins the game for his team. Later at an awards ceremony, the coach, Duke Goulding (Martin Sheen) presents the MVP award to Odin for his efforts, an award he shares with his teammate Michael Cassio (Andrew Keegan). In giving Odin the award, Duke passes over his son Hugo (Josh Hartnett), Odin's teammate and best friend. At a party celebrating the victory, Hugo plans with school outcast Roger Calhoun (Elden Henson) to go to the school's dean, Bob Brable (John Heard) and tell him that Odin raped his daughter, Desi (Julia Stiles), whom Odin has been dating. Hugo promises Roger that Desi will be his after Odin is out of the way, but Roger is only a pawn in Hugo's ultimate plan to destroy Odin.\n\nLater, in another game, Odin's team wins once again. At the celebration party, Hugo engineers a fight between Roger and a very drunk Michael, who is temporarily suspended from the team. Hugo tells Michael to ingratiate himself with Desi so that she will talk to Odin on his behalf. Soon afterward, Hugo tells Odin that Michael and Desi have been spending a lot of time together, and that she may be cheating on him. Odin doesn't believe this at first, but gradually comes to suspect them. Odin questions Desi, but she calms him down and he believes her. Nevertheless, the stress of the situation drives Odin to begin using drugs.\n\nHugo manipulates his girlfriend Emily (Rain Phoenix) into stealing a scarf for him that Odin had given to Desi. Hugo, in turn, gives it to Michael in hopes that Odin will believe that Desi gave Michael the scarf, and so is cheating on him.\n\nMeanwhile, Odin and Desi are having sex at a motel, during which Odin sees an image of Michael on top of Desi in the mirror; angered, he becomes very rough with Desi, to the point that she cries out for him to stop, a plea he ignores as he continues to rape her. Afterward, they lie together staring in opposite directions.\n\nAfter Odin assaults another student during a game in a drug-fueled rage, Hugo tells him about the scarf, convincing him that Desi is cheating on him. Enraged, Odin vows to kill her; Hugo then promises to kill Michael. Hugo, with Odin and Roger, plans to kill Michael and Desi. Hugo and Roger attempt to kill Michael in a carjacking, but it does not go as planned: Roger and Michael struggle, Hugo hits Michael with a crowbar, knocking him unconscious. Roger shoots Michael in the leg, and then Hugo turns the gun on Roger and kills him after telling him that Desi is dead.\n\nOdin and Desi are in Desi's room talking and Odin is pretending to make up with her. They are making out on the bed when suddenly Odin attacks her; Desi fights back, but he finally strangles her to death. Emily rushes into the room and sees Desi's corpse; she soon finds out what Hugo has done. She begins telling Odin that Hugo told her to steal the scarf and exposes his plot. Hugo shoots her when she refuses to be quiet, resulting in her death. Odin finally realizes that Hugo has been manipulating him the entire time, and demands to know why; Hugo refuses to answer. When the police arrive, Odin tells them what happened and commits suicide. As Hugo is taken into police custody, he says in voice over that he will have his day in the spotlight.\n\n\nThe film has received moderately positive reviews. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 64% approval rating with an average rating of 6.1/10 based on 124 reviews. The website's consensus reads, \"Though well-intentioned and serious in its exploration of teen violence, \"O\" is an uneven experiment that doesn't quite succeed.\" On Metacritic, the film achieved an average score of 53 out of 100 based on 26 reviews, signifying \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n\"O\" was nominated for a Black Reel award for best actor Mekhi Phifer. It also won the Golden Space Needle Award at the Seattle international Film Festival for Best Director.\n\n"}
{"id": "56657413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56657413", "title": "Palau Public Library", "text": "Palau Public Library\n\nPalau Public Library is the public library of Palau, located in Koror City.\n\n"}
{"id": "45092410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45092410", "title": "Phyllis Chinn", "text": "Phyllis Chinn\n\nPhyllis Zweig Chinn (née Zweig, born September 26, 1941) is an American mathematician who holds a professorship in mathematics, women's studies, and teaching preparation at Humboldt State University in California. Her publications concern graph theory, mathematics education, and the history of women in mathematics.\n\nChinn was born in Rochester, New York and graduated in 1962 from Brandeis University. She earned her Ph.D. in 1969 from the University of California, Santa Barbara with a dissertation on graph isomorphism supervised by Paul Kelly. \nShe taught at Towson State College, a training school for teachers in Maryland, from 1969 to 1975, and earned tenure there in 1974, before moving to Humboldt State. At the time she joined the Humboldt State faculty, she was the first female mathematics professor there; the only other female professor in the sciences was a biologist.\n\nIn 1997 she became chair of the mathematics department at Humboldt State.\n\nChinn has written highly cited work on graph bandwidth, dominating sets, and on bandwidth.\n\nChinn is also an avid juggler, and founded a juggling club at Humboldt State in the 1980s.\n\nHumboldt State named Chinn as Outstanding Professor for 1988–1989.\nShe was the 2010 winner of the Louise Hay Award for Contributions to Mathematics Education, given by the Association for Women in Mathematics, for her work in improving mathematics education at the middle and high school levels and encouraging young women to become mathematicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "58294092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58294092", "title": "Quodlibet (card game)", "text": "Quodlibet (card game)\n\nQuodlibet (lat.: \"what pleases\") is a traditional card game associated with central European student fraternities that is played with William Tell pattern cards and in which the dealer is known as the 'beer king'. It is a compendium, trick-taking game for 4 players using a 32-card pack of double German playing cards. \n\nQuodlibet is an old student drinking game which is described in an 1862 source as comprising around 20 different deals (\"Touren\") each, in itself, almost childish, but collectively making for an enjoyable variety. The well known children's game, Schwarzer Peter (or Old Maid in Britain), was originally a Quodlibet deal.\n\nQuolibet is a four-hander played with a pack of 32 German-suited cards that is popular with students.\n\nThe rules given here are based on those used by two student fraternities from the Austrian region: KÖStV Frankonia Wien from Vienna, founded in 1919, and KÖStV Badenia from Baden bei Wien in Lower Austria, founded in 1928, both of which are members of the Mittelschüler-Kartellverband, the umbrella organisation for all such high school fraternities in Austria.\n\nA \"partie\" in Quodlibet consists of 12 games which, in some circles are divided into three 'wheels' (\"Rädern\") or rounds, each of four deals (\"Touren\"). Quodlibet is played anti-clockwise and is a trick-taking game in which players must follow suit (\"Farbzwang\"), but there is no trump suit or requirement to win the trick.\n\nThe aim is to score as few penalty points as possible.\n\nThe dealer in Quodlibet is called the 'beer king' (\"Bierkönig\"). The first beer king deals 8 cards to each player (normally 3-3-2 or 3-2-3), picks up his hand, chooses a contract from the first round (see below) and leads to the first trick. When the first deal has been played out, the player to the dealer's right becomes the next beer king; he may now select one of the three remaining contracts and so on. \n\nAt the end of each round, the player with the most penalty points becomes the new beer king and may select the first contract. The player with the fewest penalty points at the end of the \"partie\" is the winner.\n\nThe first round (\"das erste Rad\") has the following contracts:\n\nThe aim is to win as many tricks as possible. Every trick that a player does not win scores 10 penalty points; if a player takes no tricks at all, he scores 100 penalty points – this is recorded with the Roman number \"C\".\n\nThe aim is to lose as many tricks as possible. Winning a trick costs 10 points; if a player takes all tricks, it costs 100 points.\n\nBad Neighbour (\"Böser Nachbar\") uses the same scoring as \"Minus\", but the penalty points go to the player on the right (or left in another variant).\n\nAlarich, also called Ahmed and the Red Ruffian (\"Achmed und der rote Rülps\"), is a game in which the player who takes the 'Red Ruffian', i.e. the King of Hearts, in his tricks, scores 50 penalty points; the player who captures 'Ahmed', i.e. the Ober of Bells, scores 30 penalty points. If a player captures both in one trick, it costs 100 points.\n\nThe contracts in the second round (\"das zweite Rad\") are:\n\nFirst Three and Last (\"Erste drei, letzter\") is also called 1238, pronounced \"Twelve Thirty-Eight\" (\"Zwölf Achtunddreißig\"), or Wall (\"Mauer\"). 1238 is the post code of the Viennese quarter of Mauer.\n\nWhoever takes the first trick scores 10 points. The second trick is worth 20 points, the third 30 and the last or eighth trick scores 50 (or 80) points.\n\nPlayers aim to take no reds (\"Keine Roten\") i.e. no Hearts cards in their tricks. The 'lower' Hearts (7 to 10) each score 20 points; the 'higher' ones (Unter to Deuce) each 10 points. Taking all Hearts in one trick scores 100 points.\n\nIn Ober/Unter the aim is to avoid taking any Obers or Unters. Every Ober captured costs 30 points, every Unter 20 points. If a player takes an Ober and an Unter in the same trick, it costs 100 penalty points.\n\nIn Bribe (\"Schmiergeld\") every trick scores 30 points and the player who plays the lowest card to the trick scores 20 points. If a player takes the trick with the lowest card, it costs 100 points.\n\nIn the third round (\"das dritte Rad\") or Wheel of Fortune (\"Glücksrad\") the beer king must announce his chosen contract before dealing.\n\nOpen Trousers (\"Offene Hose\") is negative contract in which the cards are held with their backs to the players, as in Idiotic Skat. For this contract, the requirement to follow suit is, of course, suspended. Each trick scores minus 10; taking all the tricks costs 100 penalty points.\n\nGood Hunting! (\"Waidmannsheil\") is a negative game with open cards. Players lay their cards face up on the table for the duration of the contract and try to take as few tricks as possible. Every trick taken costs 10 penalty points; If a player takes all 8 tricks, it costs 100 points.\n\nEach player is dealt eight cards. A card is only beaten by the card of the same suit that is exactly three ranks higher. This card must be played and not cards that are four or more ranks higher. If someone plays a so-called Quadrature (\"Quadratur\"), e. g. an Eight and Unter of the same suit, the other players must play the Nine and Ten of that suit to the trick. Scoring is the same as in Snack below.\n\nSnack (\"Kleinfraß\") is always played last. It is a variant of Sevens. Every player is dealt 4 cards; five packets of 3 cards and a singleton are placed face down on the table.\n\nInitially only the Unters may be played. On an Unter, other cards may be built in the corresponding suit. If a player cannot meld any of his cards, he picks up a packet. Unters have to be played and must not be held back.\n\nAs soon as the first player has laid all his cards out, he calls \"Census!\" and the first 'census' (\"Volkszählung\") is held. The remaining players score 10 penalty points for each card still held. \n\nThe game continues. When the second player is 'out', the next census is taken. Each remaining card now costs 20 points. In the third census the player who still has hand cards receives 30 penalty points per card and must also count the packets remaining on the table.\n\nQuodlibet is played in many variations that deviate in their details from the above description. The 1888 \"Meyers Konversationslexikon\" describes Quodlibet as \"\"a card game that consists of 13\" <nowiki>[</nowiki>sic<nowiki>]</nowiki> \"different deals that is especially popular in student circles\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3734515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734515", "title": "Reading Lolita in Tehran", "text": "Reading Lolita in Tehran\n\nReading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books is a book by Iranian author and professor Azar Nafisi. Published in 2003, it was on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for over one hundred weeks and has been translated into 32 languages.\n\nThe book consists of a memoir of the author's experiences about returning to Iran during the revolution (1978–1981) and living under the Islamic Republic of Iran government until her departure in 1997. It narrates her teaching at the University of Tehran after 1979, her refusal to submit to the rule to wear the veil and her subsequent expulsion from the University, life during the Iran–Iraq War, her return to teaching at the University of Allameh Tabatabei (1981), her resignation (1987), the formation of her book club (1995–97), and her decision to emigrate. Events are interlaced with the stories of book club members consisting of seven of her female students who met weekly at Nafisi's house to discuss works of Western literature, including the controversial \"Lolita\", and the texts are interpreted through the books they read.\n\nThe book is divided into four sections: \"Lolita\", \"Gatsby\", \"James\", and \"Austen\".\n\n\"Lolita\" deals with Nafisi as she resigns from The University of Allameh Tabatabei and starts her private literature class with students Mahshid, Yassi, Mitra, Nassrin, Azin, Sanaz and Manna. They talk not just about \"Lolita\", but \"One Thousand and One Nights\" and \"Invitation to a Beheading\". The main themes are oppression, jailers as revolutionary guards try to assert their authority through certain events such as a vacation gone awry and a runaway convict.\n\n\"Gatsby\" is set about eleven years before \"Lolita\" just as the Iranian revolution starts. The reader learns how some Iranians' dreams, including the author's, became shattered through the government's imposition of new rules. Nafisi's student Mr. Nyazi puts the novel on trial, claiming that it condones adultery. Chronologically this is the first part of Nafisi's story. \"The Great Gatsby\" and Mike Gold's works are discussed in this part. The reader meets Nassrin.\n\nNafisi states that the Gatsby chapter is about the American dream, the Iranian dream of revolution and the way it was shattered for her; the James chapter is about uncertainty and the way totalitarian mindsets hate uncertainty; and Austen is about the choice of women, a woman at the center of the novel saying no to the authority of her parents, society, and welcoming a life of dire poverty in order to make her own choice.\n\n\"James\" takes place right after \"Gatsby\", when the Iran–Iraq War begins and Nafisi is expelled from the University of Tehran along with a few other professors. The veil becomes mandatory and she states that the government wants to control the liberal-minded professors. Nafisi meets the man she calls her \"magician\", seemingly a literary academician who had retired from public life at the time of the revolution. \"Daisy Miller\" and \"Washington Square\" are the main texts. Nassrin reappears after spending several years in prison.\n\n\"Austen\" succeeds \"Lolita\" as Nafisi plans to leave Iran and the girls discuss the issue of marriages, men and sex. The only real flashback (not counting historical background) is into how the girls and Nafisi toyed with the idea of creating a Dear Jane society. While Azin deals with an abusive husband and Nassrin plans to leave for England, Nafisi's magician reminds her not to blame all of her problems on the Islamic Republic. \"Pride and Prejudice\", while the main focus, is used more to reinforce themes about blindness and empathy.\n\nThroughout the whole novel Nafisi tackles the question of what is a hero and a villain in literature. Each independent section of the book examines notions of heroism and villainy by connecting characters from books such as \"Invitation to a Beheading\" or \"The Great Gatsby\" to others. The basis of her definition of heroism and villainy is the connection between characters who are \"blind to other's problems\" such as Humbert Humbert in \"Lolita\" and characters who can empathize. This theme is intertwined with that of oppression and blindness.\n\nThe title refers to Vladimir Nabokov's novel, \"Lolita\", a story about a middle aged man who has a sexual relationship with a 12-year-old pubescent girl. The book \"Lolita\" is used by the author as a metaphor for life in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Although the book states that the metaphor is not allegorical (p. 35) Nafisi does want to draw parallels between \"victim and jailer\" (p. 37). The author implies that, like the principal character in \"Lolita\", the regime in Iran imposes their \"dream upon our reality, turning us into his figments of imagination.\" In both cases, the protagonist commits the \"crime of solipsizing another person's life.\"\n\nNafisi's account flashes back to the early days of the revolution, when she first started teaching at the University of Tehran amid the swirl of protests and demonstrations. In 1980, Nafisi claims she was dismissed from the University of Tehran for refusing to wear a veil; she subsequently pursued an independent writing career, bore two children, and, after a long hiatus from teaching, took a full-time job at Allameh Tabatabaii University where she resumed the teaching of fiction.\n\nThe book also discusses issues concerning the politics of Iran during and after the Iranian revolution, the Iran–Iraq War, and the Iranian people in general. In one instance, for example, Nafisi's students ridicule Iranian soldiers who served and died during Iran–Iraq War. She writes: \"[The students] were making fun of the dead student and laughing. They joked that his death was a marriage made in heaven – didn't he and his comrades say that their only beloved was God?\"\n\nNafisi also describes how her freedom was restricted and why she had to leave Tehran University in 1981: \"I told her I did not want to wear the veil in the classroom. Did I not wear the veil, she asked, when ever I went out? Did I not wear it in the grocery store and walking down the street? It seemed I constantly had to remind people that the university was not a grocery store.\" Later making a compromise and accepting the veil, Nafisi came back to academia and resumed her career in Iranian universities until 1995.\n\nThe issue of the headscarf in Iranian society is a running theme in the book. In Nafisi's words: \"My constant obsession with the veil had made me buy a very wide black robe with kimonolike sleeves, wide and long. I had gotten to the habit of withdrawing my hands into the sleeves and pretending that I had no hands.\" Ayatollah Khomeini decreed Iranian women must follow the Islamic dress code on March 7, 1979. In Nafisi’s view, the headscarf was the icon of oppression in the aftermath of the revolution. In referring to Khomeini's funeral, she writes that \"[t]he day women did not wear the scarf in public would be the real day of his death and the end of his revolution.\" The Ayatollah Khomeini had established the new regime after a referendum on March 30 and 31, 1979, in which more than 98% of the Iranian people voted for the creation of the republic. Before this revolution, Iranian women had not been obliged to wear a veil for almost 60 years; contrarily, women who did wear headscarves had been banned from most universities and could not work as government employees.\n\nAlthough Nafisi criticizes the Iranian government, she also calls for self-criticism. In her speech at the 2004 National Book Festival, she declared that \"[i]t is wrong to put all the blame on the Islamic regime or ... on the Islamic fundamentalists. It is important to probe and see what ... you [did] wrong to create this situation.\"\n\nTo \"The New York Times\", Nafisi stated that \"[p]eople from my country have said the book was successful because of a Zionist conspiracy and U.S. imperialism, and others have criticized me for washing our dirty laundry in front of the enemy.\"\n\nFebruary 2011 saw the premiere of a concert performance of an opera based on \"Reading Lolita in Tehran\" at the University of Maryland School of Music with music by doctoral student Elisabeth Mehl Greene and a libretto co-written by Iranian-American poet Mitra Motlagh. Azar Nafasi was closely involved in the development of the project, and participated in an audience Q&A session after the premiere.\n\nNafisi's memoir of her life during the revolution and the years following caused many reactions from a wide range of perspectives—from the libertarian \"Reason\" magazine, the conservative \"American Enterprise\", to the liberal \"Nation\". Most of critics comment Nafisi's defiance of the norms of the oppressive government. On the other hand, others put emphasis on position and hardships of women in contemporary Iran. Some negative reviews, among others, appeared in the neoconservative \"Commentary\". \n\nPositive criticism of this readership often includes the book's depiction of great literature. For example, Margaret Atwood in her review in \"Amnesty\" magazine calls the reading \"enthralling,\" while Heather Hewett of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" notes the book's \"passionate defense of literature\" that will \"resonate with anyone who loves books, or who wants (or needs) to be reminded why books matter.\" Many comments and reviews alike note the importance of the existence of literature as a mode of refuge from tyranny and oppression, in turn giving faith to the voice of an individual. According to them, the influence of this book is two-fold. Firstly, it serves as a source of comfort for readers in hardships. Secondly, the book depicts the ways that literature speaks to readers according to the particularities of their circumstances and locations. \n\nIn a critical article published in the academic journal Comparative American Studies titled 'Reading Azar Nafisi in Tehran', Head of the North American Studies Department at University of Tehran Professor Seyed Mohammad Marandi argued that \"Nafisi constantly confirms what orientalist representations have regularly claimed\" and argued she \"has produced gross misrepresentations of Iranian society and Islam and that she uses quotes and references which are inaccurate, misleading, or even wholly invented.\"\n\nFatemeh Keshavarz, Director of the Roshan Center for Persian Studies at the University of Maryland and creator of \"Windows on Iran,\" titled her analysis of Iranian culture JASMINE AND STARS: READING MORE THAN LOLITA IN TEHRAN (UNC 2007) in response to what she saw as systematic orientalism in Nafisi's book.\n\nA significant number of unforgiving pieces of criticism of the book brought to attention a potential predisposition to adopt neoconservative sentiments for the large group of American readers. It is suggested that, in a way, this book offers justifications for the involvement of the United States and Bush's foreign policy goals. One of the most active and unsparing of Nafisi's critics is Hamid Dabashi.\n\nNafisi's book drew sharp criticism by Columbia Professor Hamid Dabashi, who wrote a critical essay in the June 1 edition of the Egyptian English weekly Al-Ahram. In it, he used the late literary scholar Edward Said's work on Orientalism to critique Nafisi's memoir as evidenced in this quote: \"By seeking to recycle a kaffeeklatsch version of English literature as the ideological foregrounding of American empire, \"Reading Lolita in Tehran\" is reminiscent of the most pestiferous colonial projects of the British in India, when for example, in 1835 a colonial officer like Thomas Macaulay decreed: 'We must do our best to form a class who may be interpreters between us and the millions whom we govern, a class of persons Indian in blood and color, but English in taste, in opinions, words and intellect.' Azar Nafisi is the personification of that native informer and colonial agent, polishing her services for an American version of the very same project.\"\n\nIn a subsequent interview with \"Z Magazine\", Dabashi compared Nafisi to former American soldier Lynndie England, who was convicted of abusing Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib.\n\nDabashi and several other scholars have also noted the ways that the overly simplistic portrayal of Iranian society and framing of Afghan women as helpless victims sustains momentum for U.S. intervention in the Middle East. \n\nNafisi responded to Dabashi's criticism by stating that she is not, as Dabashi claims, a neoconservative, that she opposed the Iraq war, and that she is more interested in literature than in politics. In an interview, Nafisi stated that she's never argued for an attack on Iran and that democracy, when it comes, should come from the Iranian people (and not from US military or political intervention). She added that while she is willing to engage in \"serious argument...Debate that is polarized isn't worth my time.\" She stated that she did not respond directly to Dabashi because \"You don't want to debase yourself and start calling names.\"\n\nAli Banuazizi, the co-director of Boston College’s Middle East studies program, stated that Dabashi's article was very \"intemperate\" and that it was \"not worth the attention\" it had received. Marty Peretz, a writer of \"The New Republic\" also defended Nafisi against Dabashi's claims, asking rhetorically \"Over what kind of faculty does [Columbia University president] Lee Bollinger preside?\" Christopher Shea of the \"Boston Globe\" argued that while Dabashi spent \"several thousand words...eviscerating the book,\" his main point was not about the specific text but rather the book’s black-and-white portrayal of Iran. In an article posted on Slate.com, Gideon Lewis-Kraus described Dabashi's article as \"a less-than-coherent pastiche of stock anti-war sentiment, strategic misreading, and childish calumny.\" Robert Fulford sharply criticized Dabashi in the National Post, arguing that \"Dabashi's frame of reference veers from Joseph Stalin to Edward Said. Like a Stalinist, he tries to convert culture into politics, the first step toward totalitarianism. Like the late Edward Said, he brands every thought he dislikes as an example of imperialism, expressing the West's desire for hegemony over the downtrodden (even when oil-rich) nations of the Third World. While imitating the attitudes of Said, Dabashi deploys painful cliches.\"\n\nFiroozeh Papan-Matin, Director of Persian and Iranian Studies at the University of Washington in Seattle, also criticized Dabashi's characterization of Nafisi, stating that Dabashi's accusation that Nafisi is promoting a \"'kaffeeklatsch' worldview... callously ignores the extreme social and political conditions that forced Nafisi underground.\" Papan Matin also argued that \"Dabashi’s attack is that whether Nafisi is a collaborator with the [United States]\" was not relevant to the legitimate questions set forth in her book.\n\nIn the endpapers is a list of books that are discussed throughout the book. They are, in alphabetical order by author's last name:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "563144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563144", "title": "Regulation 17", "text": "Regulation 17\n\nRegulation 17 () was a regulation of the Ontario Conservative government designed to shut down French-language schools at a time when Francophones from Quebec were moving into eastern Ontario. It was a regulation written by the Ministry of Education, issued in July 1912 by the Conservative government of premier Sir James P. Whitney. It restricted the use of French as a language of instruction to the first two years of schooling. It was amended in 1913, and it is that version that was applied throughout Ontario. French Canadians reacted vehemently, and lost, dooming its French-language Catholic schools. This was a reason why French Canadians distanced itself from the subsequent World War I effort, as its young men refused to enlist.\n\nFrench Canadians reacted with outrage. Quebec journalist Henri Bourassa in November 1914 denounced the \"Prussians of Ontario.\" With the World War raging, this was a stinging insult. The policy was strongly opposed by Franco-Ontarians, particularly in the national capital of Ottawa where the École Guigues was at the centre of the controversy. The newspaper \"Le Droit\", which is still published today as the province's only francophone daily newspaper, was established by the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate in 1913 to oppose the ban. Faced with separate school boards' resistance and defiance of the new regulation, the Ministry of Education issued Regulation 18 in August 1913 to coerce the school boards' employees into compliance.\n\nOntario's Catholics were led by the Irish Bishop Fallon, who united with the Protestants in opposing French schools. Regulation 17 was repealed in 1927.\n\nIn 1915, the provincial government of Sir William Hearst replaced Ottawa's elected separate school board with a government-appointed commission. After years of litigation from ACFÉO, however, the directive was never fully implemented.\n\nThe regulation was eventually repealed in 1927 by the government of Howard Ferguson following the recommendations of the Merchant-Scott-Côté report. Ferguson was an opponent of bilingualism, but repealed the law because he needed to form a political alliance with Quebec premier Louis-Alexandre Taschereau against the federal government. The Conservative government reluctantly recognized bilingual schools, but the directive worsened relations between Ontario and Quebec for many years and is still keenly remembered by the French-speaking minority of Ontario.\n\nDespite the repeal of Regulation 17, however, French-language schools in Ontario were not officially recognized under the provincial Education Act until 1968.\n\nThe Ontario Heritage Trust erected a plaque for L’École Guigues and Regulation 17 in front of the former school building, 159 Murray Street, Ottawa. \"L’École Guigues became the centre of minority-rights agitation in Ontario when in 1912 the provincial government issued a directive, commonly called Regulation 17, restricting French-language education. Mounting protests forced the government to moderate its policy and in 1927 bilingual schools were officially recognized.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44476552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44476552", "title": "Robert C. Calfee", "text": "Robert C. Calfee\n\nRobert C. (Bob) Calfee was an educational psychologist specializing in the study of reading and writing processes and instruction He is known for his work on Project Read and the LeapFrog learning system.\n\nCalfee was born in Lexington Kentucky January 26, 1933. He received his B.A. from the university of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1959. He received his M.A. in 1960 and Ph.D. in 1963, both from UCLA.\n\nCalfee started his academic career in the University of Wisconsin Madison where he taught and conducted research from 1964-1969. In 1969 he moved to Stanford University where he stayed until 1998. During his time at Stanford he was promoted to Full Professor in 1971 and served in a number of roles including Associate Dean for Research and Development, Director of the Stanford Teacher Education Program and the Stanford Center for Research in Education.\n\nIn 1996, Calfree served on the Commission for the Establishment of Academic Content and Performance Standards.\n\nCalfee was instrumental in the development of LeapFrog reading technology. In 1998 Robert Calfee moved to University of California, Riverside school of Education where he served as Dean (1998-2003) and later Distinguished Professor. In 2003 he received the Oscar Causey Award for Outstanding Contributions to Reading Research, by the National Reading Conference (now the Literacy Research Association). The National Conference for Research in Language and Literacy awarded him a lifetime achievement award in 2009.\n\nCalfee died of stomach cancer in October 23, 2014.\n\nCalfee has authored over 300 articles, book chapters and edited books. Some of the more notable were the \"Handbook of Educational Psychology\" with David Berliner, and \"Acoustic-phonetic skills and reading: Kindergarten through twelfth grade\" with Patricia and Charles Lindamood in the Journal of Educational Psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "37127960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37127960", "title": "Santosh Vempala", "text": "Santosh Vempala\n\nSantosh Vempala (born 18 October 1971) is a prominent computer scientist. He is a Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at the Georgia Institute of Technology. His main work has been in the area of Theoretical Computer Science.\n\nVempala attended Carnegie Mellon University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1997 under professor Avrim Blum.\n\nIn 1997, he was awarded a Miller Fellowship at Berkeley. Subsequently, he was a Professor at MIT in the Mathematics Department, until he moved to Georgia Tech in 2006.\n\nHis main work has been in the area of theoretical computer science, with particular activity in the fields of algorithms, randomized algorithms, computational geometry, and computational learning theory, including the authorship of books on random projection and spectral methods.\n\nIn 2008, he co-founded the Computing for Good (C4G) program at Georgia Tech.\n\nVempala has received numerous awards, including a Guggenheim Fellowship, Sloan Fellowship, and being listed in \nGeorgia Trend's \"40 under 40\".\nHe was named Fellow of ACM \"For contributions to algorithms for convex sets and probability distributions\" in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "55938669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55938669", "title": "Self-financing Higher Education in Hong Kong", "text": "Self-financing Higher Education in Hong Kong\n\nSelf-Financing Higher Education in Hong Kong refers to educational programmes at the sub-degree level and above provided by local self-financing entities. Since the government announced the target of enabling 60% of secondary school graduates to receive higher education, the self-financing post-secondary education sector has experienced significant expansion with the aim of accommodating the emerging needs of the society.\n\nThe emergence of knowledge-based economy has often been highlighted by the government in explaining its initiatives in the Higher Education sector. The changing manpower needs of a knowledge-based economy increases the demand for higher education around the world. As a knowledge-based economy depends upon knowledge and its agile applications, it requires an educated population and the corresponding massification of post-secondary education.\n\nDuring the early period of British colonial rule, higher education served as a platform for the British Empire to train Chinese elites who were likely to become government officials in the future. Only 2579 students (2.2% of the relevant age groups) were enrolled as first-year students in local university degree programmes in 1980.\n\nHowever, the higher education sector began to experience rapid massification since the 1990s. The most significant move in massification is encapsulated by the Chief Executive’s policy in 2000, which sets the target of raising the participation rate in post-secondary education from 33% to 60% in ten years’ time. The objective has been achieved in the middle of the decade due to the rapid expansion of the self-financing post-secondary institutions.\n\nIn 2017, 61,600 secondary school graduates attended the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Examination. Around 28,000 achieved results that met the admission criteria for a university degree, while only 12,700 of them could enrol in the government-funded degree programmes offered by eight universities in Hong Kong through the Joint University Programmes Admission System (JUPAS). Given the large number of academically qualified candidates, the government-funded bachelor's degree cannot provide sufficient places for the graduates, which gives the self-financing institutions a crucial role in meeting the rising demand.\n\nThey offer programmes through their self-financing continuing and professional education arms or member institutions under their aegis. These institutions include the eight UGC-funded institutions, and the Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts.\n\nThese institutions include:\n\n\nOver the years, the Government has provided a series of financial schemes to support self-financing higher education institutions, including:\n\nStart-up Loan Scheme (2001)\nSelf-financing Higher Education Fund (2011)\nQuality Enhancement Grant Scheme (2012)\nResearch Endowment Fund (2012)\nStudent Financial Assistance Schemes\nStudy Subsidy Scheme for Designated Professions/Sectors (SSSDP)\n\nCurrently in Hong Kong, three bodies are responsible for quality assurance of programmes offered by higher education institutions. In order to receive local accreditation, the programme has to satisfy the standards of the Hong Kong Qualifications Framework (QF) to ensure credibility and recognition.\n\nThe qualification of associate degree is recognized by around 26 professional bodies in Hong Kong, such as information technology, logistics, financial services, etc. For recruitment in the civil service, the Civil Service Bureau started accepting locally accredited associate degree qualifications (as broadly equivalent to Higher Diploma qualifications) since 2001. There are more than 70 grades that accept applications from associate degree holders (who hold associate degree as one’s highest qualification), including 13 grades that require higher diploma qualifications or below, and other grades that require qualifications below sub-degree level.\n\nUnder Carrie Lam's administration, the government introduced a non-means-tested annual subsidy for eligible students pursuing full-time locally accredited self-financing undergraduate programmes in Hong Kong. The subsidy scheme provides a $30,000 subsidy to Hong Kong students who have either attained (a) “3322” in Hong Kong Diploma for Secondary Education Examination (HKDSE) or (b) sub-degree qualifications at the time when they are enrolled in the selected self-financing undergraduate degree programs.\n\nHowever, the scheme does not cover UGC-funded degree and sub-degree programs, self-financing degree programs at UGC-funded universities and sub-degree programs, including associate degrees and higher diplomas, offered by private universities and colleges. According to Kevin Yeung Yun-hung, Deputy Education Chief, sub-degree programs are not covered in the subsidy scheme as the government has to evaluate their value and orientation in the market.\n\nThe introduction of the subsidy scheme had led to the reduction of the tuition fees level in private universities and colleges. Prior to the subsidy scheme, most of the self-financing degree programs charged students HKD $60,000 - $130,000 a year. Under the new subsidy scheme, the tuition fees for most self-financing degree programs drop to HKD$24,000 - $99,030. Some institutions even have a tuition fee level lower than the one at publicly-funded universities. Students reading eligible private college degree programs will therefore benefit directly from reduced tuition fees and financial burden.\n\nThe economic incentive may encourage more students to apply for self-financing higher degree offered by the selected private universities and colleges. After the release of HKDSE result, some candidates expressed their interests in applying to self-financing degree program instead of the self-financing associate degree programs, mainly because of the lower tuitions fees of the former under the new subsidy scheme. However, Kevin Yeung Yun-hung revealed in mid-November 2017 that there was no major shift in the proportion of students between self-financing degree and sub-degree programs. Ng Po-shing, Director of the Student Guidance Centre of Hok Yau Club, explained that most of the self-financing degree programs offered by the selected private universities and colleges have a relatively low recognition in the society and in the job market, and that students would prefer reading a sub-degree to seek admission to public universities. This is particularly the case when students reading sub-degree programs can apply for the subsidized self-financing degree programs even if they cannot be admitted to public universities after graduation. Therefore, Ng predicted that the $30,000 subsidy has little influence on students’ decision in choosing between self-financing degree and sub-degree programmes.\n\nWith the reduction of school-age population, a persistent decline in the number of local secondary school graduates is projected in the next few years. The number will continuously decrease from 71,700 in 2014 to 45,100 in 2022, and is anticipated to climb to 69,900 in 2030. It is projected that starting from 2017, the number of post-secondary intake places will be more than the number of eligible candidates. There will be insufficient number of prospective student among self-financing higher educational institutions, resulting in the low demand for post-secondary education.\n\nMeanwhile, the supply of both publicly-funded and self-financing post-secondary education programs are anticipated to increase in the coming years. The surplus of post-secondary education programmes suggests a more fierce competition for eligible candidates within the expanding self-financing higher education sector. In 2016, the Education Bureau found that 82% of the self-financing higher education programs had the actual intake of students lower than their expected number. For example, Chu Hai College of Higher Education expected to recruit 1030 students in the first year of admission, but only 169 were eventually accepted. Similarly, Centennial College provided 440 intake places while only 75 students were admitted at the end.\n\nSince the funding of self-financing higher education institutions depends upon their tuition fee income, the intensified competition will drive some private universities and colleges into financial difficulties. In 2016, it was revealed that Centennial College faced serious financial difficulties such that it was taken over by and currently managed by HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE). Before the figure of secondary school population climbs up again, it is expected that self-financing post-secondary institutions will face grave problems in terms of admission and finance.\n\nMembers from the education sector criticised the government for failing to foresee the future decline of secondary population, and wrongly encouraged the private sector to expand the self-financing post-secondary sector.\n\nDifferent financial schemes (such as Self-financing Higher Education Fund and Quality Enhancement Grant Scheme) have been implemented to support the development of self-financing higher education institutions. However, no recurrent funds are provided for daily operation of facilities, salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff, and extra-curricular activities for students. Compared to UGC-funded universities, which receive Government’s subsidy of $242,260 per student every year since the 2015/16 academic year, the major income source of self-financing institutions comes from tuition fees, which is around $60,000-$85,000 per student every year, but this cannot cover their operational expenses. Despite the financial difficulties, they are also reluctant to have significant increase in their tuition fees due to the concern of negative publicity. The lack of alumni network and reputation also aggravates the difficulty for the institutions to obtain donations from society.\n\nThe 2012 ‘CCLU’ incident aroused public concern towards the quality of teaching and learning offered by self-financing higher education institutions.\n\nFirst, there was the problem of excess admission of students. The original number of placements for all programmes in the 2012/13 academic year was 1900 students, but over 5400 students were being admitted in total. Owing to insufficient classroom facilities, lessons were cut from three hours to two hours in order to accommodate all registered students. In addition, the tutor-student ratio exceeded the Education Bureau’s requirement. The maximum capacity for language courses was 25 students, but the class size at most reached 40 students. Given the limited resources regarding classroom facilities and qualified tutors, it would be difficult for the institution to maintain the quality of teaching and learning.\n\nSecond, unregistered courses were being offered. In the ‘CCLU’ incident, it was discovered that CCLU offered 25 unregistered courses which were not listed on the Information Portal for Accredited Post-secondary Programmes (IPASS), a website launched by the Government in 2007 to provide information on programmes and courses offered by higher education institutions.\n\nThe ‘CCLU’ incident revealed the ineffectiveness of JQRC’s peer review mechanism. There was a lack of transparency on the manner in which peer reviews on quality assurance processes were being conducted. Impartiality of the mechanism was also doubted owing to the absence of an independent third party in the review process.\n\nIn promoting self-financing higher education institutions, the government emphasizes the broad coverage of both general and professional education offered by these institutions, together with the recognition of higher diploma and associate degree qualifications by various professional bodies. However, the problem of insufficient recognition remains due to the inconsistency between curriculum design and the skills required for human resources in Hong Kong. The learning outcome of these programmes do not match with current demands of techniques and soft skills in the labour market, which has adversely affected the employability of graduates and the recognition of the institution. One of the reasons is that there is inadequate communication and collaboration between institutions and the industry, leading to weak alignments in curriculum design and actual skills needed in the real world.\n\nThe socio-economic prospect of graduates, especially associate degree graduates, reflects the recognition issue of self-financing higher education institutions from another perspective. Although associate degree is an independently recognized qualification, it is commonly perceived as stepping stones to bachelor's degree programmes. For those aged 30–34 earning a monthly salary over $30,000, 42.3% have a bachelor's degree, while only 6.3% obtain associate degree as one’s highest qualification. Moreover, reports showed that 63.7% associate degree holders aged 20–34 earn an income lower than the overall median income in Hong Kong, with a significant discrepancy with bachelor's degree holders.\n\nThe recognition of self-financing higher education institutions is also affected by Government’s accreditation. Under the Post-Secondary Colleges Ordinance (Cap. 320), the accreditation process is conducted by Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications (HKCAAVQ). The process is criticised for its expensive cost and the duration that it takes for self-financing institutions to be upgraded to private universities, which involves two rounds and usually takes an institution ten years for the upgrading process.\n\nIn pursuance of coherence and consistency in quality assurance practice, the University Grants Committee proposed in 2010 the integration of HKCAAVQ, Joint Quality Review Committee and the Quality Assurance Council.\n\nThe rationale lies in the fragmented division of responsibilities among the three quality assurance bodies, with different bodies regulating certain parts of the oversight system. Considering the quality-assurance agencies for sub-degree programmes, programmes offered by UGC-funded are monitored by the Joint Quality Review Committee, while others are quality-assured by the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications.\n\nFrom the student's viewpoint, it is difficult to compare the quality of self-financing sub-degree programme provided by a UGC-funded institution and a private institution, as they are quality-regulated by two different bodies. For education providers, the fragmented oversight mechanism casts doubt upon the consistencies in the quality assurance practices applied to different institutions. The differences in regulatory frameworks, for example, allow UGC-funded institutions to offer new programmes in a faster manner as compared to other institutions, which have to go through the HKCAAVQ process.\n\nWith reference to overseas examples, the Committee on Self-financing post-secondary Education translated the principles into concrete recommendation for governance practices.\n\nFirstly, it proposes the development of strategic and operational plans that are aligned with the missions and visions of the institutions. The abstract plan should be translated into detailed analysis of the institution’s strengths and weaknesses, and assessment of the risk and opportunities in the external environment.\n\nAlso, the institutions should publish annual reports that reviews their performance against the published strategic and operational plans. Financial information should be made available to current students and the general public.\n\nIn respect of the governing structures, the governing body should include different stakeholders and a mix of expertise. An institution should establish a system of appointment of members to its governing body and key committees, which enhances the transparency and accountability of its governance.\n\nTo standardize the benchmark of these institutions, the Steering Committee on the Review of Post-secondary Education Sector proposes the introduction of a code of practice that broadly outlines the arrangements for good governance and quality assurance. The code assures student, employers and the public that the governance and quality assurance of self-financing post-secondary education institutions will stay within the stipulated ambit of the code.\n\nThe committee suggests that the code should be based on principles of good governance and quality assurance derived from academic studies and overseas examples, which include:\n\nAs the principles and processes of governance and QA are closely related, it gives credence to the proposal of introducing one single code covering both governance and QA.\n\nThe convenor of Education and Training Sub-committee of Banking Industry Training Advisory Committee criticised the weak alignments and communications between educational institutions and industries. Currently, the curriculum focuses on generic banking and finance knowledge, which has to be adjusted to reflect the real world and puts more emphasis on technical and soft skills. There were rarely dialogues between institutions and the industry on knowledge, skills and attributes that banks require.\n\nIn 2013, the Education Bureau urges self-financing higher education institutions to conduct in-depth research on the current needs of society, and engage employers and professional bodies to participate in the curriculum design.\n\nIn view of the rise of economic power in Asia, the University Grants Committee highlights the need of incorporating the Asian context in building the new curricula. The additional focus would provide a distinctive character to part of Hong Kong higher education and enhance the learning horizons of local and non-local students alike.\n\nSome criticise that the scheme covers only self-financing degree programs offered by private universities and colleges, excluding those offered by UGC-funded universities. A number of students reading self-financing degree programmes in public universities complained that the scheme is unfair to them, since they have to pay even higher level of tuition fees than their counterparts in private universities.\n\nIsabella Ng Fung-sheung, Assistant Professor at Education University, considered that the government deliberately drew a demarcation between self-financing degree programs offered by public universities and those offered by private universities. She argued that the subsidy scheme was introduced to assist those “weak” private universities to survive amidst the declining number of secondary 6 population, and therefore the relatively “strong” UGC-operated self-financing degree programs with sufficient intake of students are not covered under the scheme. Such a distinction would impede benign competition in self-financing higher education market, therefore failing to weed out those substandard degree programs offered by private post-secondary institutions. President of the Hong Kong Professional Teachers’ Union, Dr. Fung Wai-wah, also criticized the demarcation deprives students of the choice to choose between quality self-financing degree programs offered by public universities and those substandard programs offered by private colleges.\n\nPolitical commentator, Albert Cheng opts for the proposal of extending the subsidy scheme to programmes offered by UGC-funded institutions. By providing economic incentives to students applying for self-financing degree programs offered by private universities, Cheng worried that those better-quality UGC-funded degree programs will be marginalized after the introduction of the subsidy scheme. He considered that it is “ridiculous” to expend valuable public resources to fund substandard programs at private universities and compel students to accept poor-quality education. Such substandard programs, as he argued, shall not receive any subsidization so that they can be weeded out in the market to raise the overall quality of the degree programs in self-financing higher education market.\n\nNevertheless, Ng Po-shing submitted that Cheng’s worry may be exaggerated, since the new $30,000 subsidy scheme does not appear to affect students’ decision in the 2017/2018 intake, and most students opt to either read a UGC-funded degree program, or a sub-degree program, which provides less capable performers in HKDSE with an alternative route to public universities.\n"}
{"id": "29355458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29355458", "title": "Sheila Nelson", "text": "Sheila Nelson\n\nSheila Mary Nelson (born 1936 in Manchester) is an English musician, music educator, writer and composer. She has played with the English Chamber Orchestra, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and the Menuhin Festival Orchestra but is best known as a violin and viola teacher. She is usually referred to as Sheila Nelson, but appears in her published works as Sheila M. Nelson.\n\nSheila Nelson studied at the Royal College of Music and has a B.Mus degree from London University. She has also studied at the University of Birmingham and in Denmark. In 1976 she went to the USA on a Churchill Fellowship to study with the eminent string pedagogue Paul Rolland, and in the 1980s directed an innovative group-teaching project in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets. The Tower Hamlets Project taught strings and piano to whole school classes in a deprived area of London, and was featured in a six-part TV documentary series, \"Beginners Please.\"\n\nNelson is co-author of the \"Essential String Method\" series and author/composer of other many music instruction and repertoire books, published by Boosey & Hawkes. She is an Honorary Member of the Royal Academy of Music (Hon RAM), a distinction limited to 300 musicians.\n\nNelson is a prolific writer and composer. Selected works include:\n"}
{"id": "1515358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1515358", "title": "Single-sex education", "text": "Single-sex education\n\nSingle-sex education, also known as single-gender education, is the practice of conducting education with male and female students attending separate classes, perhaps in separate buildings or schools. The practice was common before the 20th century, particularly in secondary and higher education. Single-sex education in many cultures is advocated on the basis of tradition as well as religion, and is practiced in many parts of the world. Recently, there has been a surge of interest and establishment of single-sex schools due to educational research. Single-sex education is practiced in many Muslim majority countries; while in the West it is most popular in Chile, Israel, South Korea, and English-speaking countries such as Singapore, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong in China, New Zealand, and Australia. In the Western world, single sex education is primarily associated with the private sector, with the public (state) sector being overwhelmingly mixed sex; while in the Muslim world the situation is the opposite: public schools are usually single sex, while many private schools are mixed sex. Motivations for single sex education range from religious ideas of sex segregation to beliefs that the sexes learn and behave differently, and, as such, they thrive in a single sex environment. In the 19th century, in Western countries, single sex girls' finishing schools, and women's colleges offered women a chance of education at a time when they were denied access to mainstream educational institutions. The former were especially common in Switzerland, the latter in the US and the UK, which were pioneers in women's education.\n\nIn 19th century Western Europe, the most common way for girls to access education was at home, through private tutoring, and not at school. This was especially the case in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which strongly resisted women's involvement in schools. By contrast, in the US, early feminists were successful in establishing women's educational institutions. These were different from and considered inferior to men's institutions, but they created some of the first opportunities to formalized higher education for women in the Western world. The Seven Sisters colleges offered unprecedented emancipation for women. The pioneer Salem College of Winston-Salem, North Carolina was founded in 1772, originally as a primary school, later becoming an academy (high school) and finally a college. The New England Female Medical College (1848) and the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania (1850) were the first medical institutions in the world established to train women in medicine and offer them the M.D. degree.\n\nDuring the 19th century, ideas about education started to change: modern ideas that defined education as a right, rather than as a privilege available only to a small elite, started to gain support in North America and Europe. As such, mass elementary education was introduced, and more and more coeducational schools were set up. Together with mass education, the coeducation became standard in many places. Increased secularization in the 20th century also contributed to the acceptance of mixed sex education. In 1917 coeducation was mandated in the Soviet Union. According to Cornelius Riordan, \"By the end of the nineteenth century, coeducation was all but universal in American elementary and secondary public schools (see Kolesnick, 1969; Bureau of Education, 1883; Butler, 1910; Riordan, 1990). And by the end of the 20th century, this was largely true across the world. In the UK, Australia, and Ireland the tradition of single sex education remained quite strong until the 1960s. The 1960s and 1970s were a period of intense social changes, and during that era many anti-discrimination laws were passed, such as the 1972 Title IX. Wiseman (2008) shows that by 2003, only a few countries across the globe have greater than one or two percent single sex schools. But there are exceptions where the percent of single sex schools exceeds 10 percent: Belgium, Chile, Singapore, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Israel, New Zealand, Australia, South Korea, and most Muslim nations. Recently, however, there has been a resurgence of interest in single sex schools in modern societies across the globe, both in the public and private sector (Riordan, 2002).\"\n\nThe topic of single-sex education is controversial. Advocates argue that it aids student outcomes such as test scores, graduation rates, and solutions to behavioral difficulties. Opponents, however, argue that evidence for such effects is inflated or non-existent, and instead argue that such segregation can increase sexism and impairs the development of interpersonal skills.\n\nAdvocates of single-sex education believe that there are persistent gender differences in how boys and girls learn and behave in educational settings, and that such differences merit educating them separately. One version of this argument holds that male-female brain differences favor the implementation of gender-specific teaching methods, but such claims have not held up to rigorous scrutiny. In addition, supporters of single-sex education argue that by segregating the genders, students do not become distracted by the other gender's actions in the classrooms, but most of the social distraction in classrooms is actually attributable to same-gender interactions.\nA systematic review published in 2005 covering 2221 studies was commissioned by the US Department of Education entitled \"Single-sex versus coeducational schooling: A systematic review\". The review, which had statistical controls for socio-economic status of the students and resources of the schools, etc., found that in the study on the effects of single-sex schooling\n\nIt also said that in general, most studies reported positive effects for single-sex schools on all-subject achievement tests and the preponderance of studies in areas such as academic accomplishment (both concurrent and long term) and adaptation or socioemotional development (both concurrent and long term) yields results lending support to single-sex schooling.\n\nThe quantitative data itself \"finds positive results are three to four times more likely to be found for single sex schools than for coeducational schools in the same study for both academic achievement and socio-emotional development,\" said Cornelius Riordan, one of the directors of the research.\n\nIn 2008, the US government sponsored another study, \"Early Implementation of Public Single-Sex Schools: Perceptions and Characteristics\", which listed the benefits of single-sex schools: (1) Decreases distractions in learning, (2) Reduces student behavior problems, (3) Provides more leadership opportunities, (4) Promotes a sense of community among students and staff, (5) Improves student self-esteem, (6) Addresses unique learning styles and interests of boys or girls, (7) Decreases sex bias in teacher-student interactions, (8) Improves student achievement, (9) Decreases the academic problems of low achieving students, (10) Reduces sexual harassment among students, (11) Provides more positive student role models, (12) Allows for more opportunities to provide social and moral guidance, (13) Provides choice in public education.\nAustralian researchers reported in 2009 that high school students' interpersonal relationships were positively associated with both academic and nonacademic achievement, although the interaction between boys and girls in a majority of cases resulted in less homework done, less enjoyment of school, and lower reading and math scores.\n\nA UCLA report commissioned by the National Coalition of Girls' Schools used data from a large national survey of U.S. college freshmen and found stronger academic orientations among women who had attended all-girls, compared to coeducational high schools, but the effects were small and the authors concluded \"that the marginal benefits do not justify the potential threats to gender equity brought on by academic sex segregation\".\n\nIn September 2011, the journal \"Science\" published a study deeply critical of gender-segregated schooling, arguing that the movement towards single-sex education \"is deeply misguided, and often justified by weak, cherry-picked, or misconstrued scientific claims rather than by valid scientific evidence\". The study goes on to conclude that \"there is no well-designed research showing that single-sex (SS) education improves students' academic performance, but there is evidence that sex segregation increases gender stereotyping and legitimizes institutional sexism.\"\n\nOpponents of single-sex education, including the authors of the \"Science\" article, argue that it is not single-sex education that is producing positive results but rather, the ability of students who enter such programs and resources of the schools that are responsible. They also argue that single-sex schooling does not adequately prepare students for adult workplaces and society, where males and females need to respect and communicate effectively with each other. Coeducational schools offer greater opportunity to break down sexist attitudes through purposeful interaction with the other sex. Coeducational schools are also said to create greater feelings of safety and mutual respect among students across the gender spectrum.\n\nLeonard Sax, the President of National Association for Single-sex Public Education or NASSPE countered the \"Science\" article by saying that \"ALL the studies cited in the SCIENCE article regarding 'negative impacts' were in fact studies involving a small number of PRE-SCHOOL students attending a COED pre-kindergarten\" (capitalized letters in the original). He further said that \"these authors provide no evidence for their substantive claim that 'gender divisions are made even more salient in SS settings.' In fact, this conjecture has been tested, and proven false, in multiple studies.\" Sax cited a study which said that \"girls in the all-girls classroom were less aware of 'being a girl' and less aware of gender stereotypes regarding science, compared to girls who were randomly assigned to the coed classroom.\"\n\nIn January 2012, an unpublished study of the University of Pennsylvania, involving a randomized experiment, considered the experiment with the highest level of scientific evidence. The data comes from schools in South Korea, where a law was passed randomly assigning students to schools in their district. The study by Park, Berhman and Choi titled \"Causal Effects of Single-Sex Schools on College Entrance Exams and College Attendance: Random Assignment in Seoul High Schools\" concluded that \"Attending all-boys schools or all-girls schools rather than attending coeducational schools is significantly associated with higher average scores.\"\n\nIn 2014, E. Pahlke, J. S. Hyde, and C. M. Allison published a meta-analysis comparing achievement and attitudes in single-sex versus coeducational schools that included 1.6 million students in grades K-12. The study concluded that \"there is little evidence of an advantage of SS schooling for girls or boys for any of the outcomes.\" In a 2015 review of this study Cornelius Riordan observed that the authors \"employ a 0.2 effect-size threshold in drawing these conclusions about there being no advantage to single-sex schooling. Despite the above conclusion, the research found that, in a separate analysis of just the best studies (well controlled) conducted in America, the effect size in mathematics was 0.14 for both boys and girls. The verbal performance was 0.22 for girls and 0.13 for boys... Educational research has shown that a standard effect size of 0.10 on gains from sophomore to senior year of high school is equivalent to one full year of learning by the average public school student in the United States.\" Thus, he says, that \"Applying this standard, a difference of 0.10 (or greater) between students in single-sex and in coeducational schools would be substantially important.\"\n\nIn Australia, most single sex schools are fee paying independent or Catholic schools. There are a small number of single sex government schools, while within the independent sector the proportion of pupils attending single sex schools has dropped from 31% in 1985 to 24% in 1995. Nevertheless, single sex education in Australia is much more popular than in the US.\nIn 2001, the Australian Council for Educational Research after six years of study of more 270,000 students, in 53 academic subjects, showed that boys and girls from single-sex classrooms \"scored on average 15 to 22 percentile ranks higher than did boys and girls in coeducational settings. The report also documented that boys and girls in single-sex schools were more likely to be better behaved and to find learning more enjoyable and the curriculum more relevant.'\"\n\nIn Bangladesh, a large number of city schools and colleges are single-sex institutions except for universities. Notable all Cantonment schools (non-residential schools run directly by Military), Zilla Schools (run directly by Government [First starting in early colonial ages]), Cadet colleges (residential schools run directly by Military) are single-sex schools.\n\nIn India, boys are said to do better in single-sex classrooms because of the varying educational needs of boys when compared to girls. However, the number of single-sex state schools has dropped substantially over the past 40 years, from 2,500 to 400. Figures indicate that, as of 2002, 53% of girls in the Indian population actually attend schools. Some conservative parents may decide to withdraw their daughters at the age of puberty onset because of fear of distraction. It is also believed that by having single-sex classrooms the students will be able to focus more on their education, as they will not have the distraction of the other sex. The study argues that co-education schools provide opportunities for students to interact with their peers which de-stresses students and creates a friendlier, more relaxed environment.\n\nA country with conservative traditions, Ireland has significantly more pupils studying in single-sex schools than other western countries: more than one third of second level schools are single sex. Even at primary level, single sex education is quite common: 17% of primary school children attend single-sex schools.\n\nIn the Middle East public schools are all gender-segregated, whereas private schools are coeducational. There are single-sex private schools as well. In Iran, single-sex public schools have been in place since the Islamic Revolution. Universities are mostly coeducational in Iran.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, private schools are mostly coeducational, while public schools are segregated.\n\nIn Syria, private schools are coeducational, while public schools are mostly, but not exclusively, segregated. Universities are all coeducational.\n\nIn Israel the public schools (both secular and orthodox) are coeducational. Ultraorthodox as well as a few other private religious schools are single-sex.\n\nIn Lebanon most schools are coeducational schools\n\nIn Nigeria, public opinion regarding sexes in schools is influenced most by religious and cultural beliefs rather than the idea that students learn better separated into sexes. Because of this, the attitude towards the separation/integration of sexes varies depending on the ethnic makeup of the region. People in northern Nigeria are mostly Muslim and as a result, are more inclined to choose single-sex education over co-education in-line with their religious beliefs. However country-wide, co-education schools are more common than single-sex schools.\n\nIn contrast to the predominance of co-education schools, many prestigious educational institutions only accept one sex, major examples are, King's College and Queen's College situated in Lagos. At university level, although the sexes are not separated in the classroom, it is common practice to employ a single sex housing policy on university campuses e.g. Covenant University.\n\nMost of the private schools in Karachi, Lahore, Hyderabad, Islamabad and Rawalpindi are co-education but government schools are all single-sex education. Most colleges are also single-sex education institutions till graduation. There is one women's university in Rawalpindi as well. A few other universities also offer degree courses separately to both genders. In some cities, single-sex education is preferred, like Peshawar and Quetta, where many schools are single-sex educational, but there are also schools which are co-educational. However, most of the higher education in Pakistan is co-education.\n\nAround 1800, girls' middle-secondary schools begun to appear, and become more common during the 19th century. By the mid 1970s, most of them had been scrapped and replaced with coeducation.\n\nBy a law from 1575, girls as well as boys were expected to be given elementary schooling. The establishment for girl schools were left to each city's own authorities, and no school for girls were founded until the Rudbeckii flickskola in 1632, and that school were to be an isolated example. However, some schools for boys did occasionally accept female students, even on high levels: Ursula Agricola and Maria Jonae Palmgren were accepted at Visingsö Gymnasium in 1644 and 1645 respectively, and Aurora Liljenroth graduated from the same school in 1788.\n\nDuring the 18th century, many girl schools were established, referred to as \"Mamsellskola\" (Mamsell School) or \"Franskpension\" (French Pension). These schools could normally be classified as finishing schools, with only a shallow education of polite conversation in French, embroidery, piano playing and other accomplishments, and the purpose was only to give the students a suitable minimum education to be a lady, a wife and a mother.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, a growing discontent over the shallow education of women eventually resulted in the finishing schools being gradually replaced by girl schools with a higher level of academic secondary education, called \"Higher Girl Schools\", in the mid-19th century. At the time of the introduction of the compulsory elementary school for both sexes in Sweden in 1842, only five schools in provided academic secondary education to females: the Societetsskolan (1786), Fruntimmersföreningens flickskola (1815) and Kjellbergska flickskolan (1833) in Gothenburg, Askersunds flickskola (1812) in Askersund, and Wallinska skolan (1831) in Stockholm. During the second half of the 19th century, there were secondary education girl schools in most Swedish cities. All of these were private, with the exception of the Women's college \"Högre lärarinneseminariet\" in Stockholm from 1861, and its adjacent girl school \"Statens normalskola för flickor\". The Girl School Committee of 1866 organized the regulation of girl schools and female education in Sweden: from 1870, some girl schools were given the right to offer the Gymnasium (school) level to its students, and from 1874, those girl schools who met the demands were given governmental support and some were given the right to issue professional degrees. This was necessary to make it possible for women to enroll at the universities, which had been open to women in 1870, as female students were not accepted in the same schools as male\n\nWhile England has a very strong tradition of single-sex education, Scottish education was largely mixed, and Wales introduced dual schools (a girls' side and a boys' side under one roof) in 1889. In England, most secondary education was single-sex until the 1970s.\n\nSingle-sex schooling was traditionally the norm for secondary schools in most parts of the United Kingdom, especially for private, grammar and secondary modern schools, but most UK schools are now coeducational. In the state sector of the U.K. education system, the only single-sex junior schools are Winterbourne Junior Boys' School and Winterbourne Junior Girls' School (both in the London Borough of Croydon). The number of single-sex state schools has fallen from nearly 2,500 to just over 400 in 40 years. According to Alan Smithers, Professor of Education at Buckingham University, there was no evidence that single-sex schools were consistently superior. A major longitudinal study of over 17,000 individuals examined whether single-sex schooling made a difference for a wide range of outcomes, including academic attainment, earnings, marriage, childbearing and divorce. The authors found that girls fared better in examinations at age 16 at single-sex schools, while boys achieved similar results at single-sex or co-educational schools. Girls rated their abilities in maths and sciences higher if they went to a girls' school, and boys rated their abilities in English higher if they went to a boys' school, i.e. gender stereotyping was weaker in the single-sex sector. Later in life, women who had been to single-sex schools went on to earn higher wages than women who had been to co-educational schools.\n\nUntil the 19th century, single-sex education was the norm in the US, although this varied by region. In New England there was more mixed-sex education than in the South, and girls in New England had more access to education in general. With the generalization of elementary education in the 19th century, mixed-sex education started to spread rapidly. According to Cornelius Riordan, \"By the end of the nineteenth century, coeducation was all but universal in American elementary and secondary public schools (see Kolesnick, 1969; Bureau of Education, 1883; Butler, 1910; Riordan, 1990). However, higher education was usually single-sex, and men's colleges and women's colleges were common well into the 20th century. A form of education strongly associated with sex-segregation is that of Catholic schools, although many Catholic schools today are coeducational. The idea of educating students differently by sex, formally or informally, was common until the 1970s.\n\nA controversy regarding single-sex education in the United States is its association with racist ideologies in the 1950s in the American South. After the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954) ruled racial segregation in education unconstitutional, therefore paving the way to educating together black and white children, many conservatives reacted very negatively to the idea of black boys and white girls socializing together, potentially leading to interracial romantic couples. As such, segregation by sex in schools became quite common during that era across the Southern US, with many single sex educational institutions being established.\n\nA major event that affected single-sex schooling in the US was when the Title IX amendments of the Education Amendments of 1972 were passed. The Encyclopedia of Women and Gender explains Title IX as being, \"Founded on the premises of equal opportunity, equal access, and full integration, it focused on providing complete access to participation in all functions of schooling, regardless of gender\" (Sex Segregation In Education, 2001). Many feminists fought for the passage of this law. The goal was to ban all sex discrimination in any education program which received financial aid from the government. It was stated specifically on the Department of Education website as, \"No person in the US, on the basis of sex, can be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance\".\n\nThe main cause which led to the start of more public schools having single-sex classes or entire schools was when the reforms to the Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 were passed in 2006. Originally Title IX had allowed separation of males and females in certain areas in school prior to the new changes. For example, they were allowed to have single gender classes for physical-education when there were contact sports involved and also for sex-education classes. Kasic (2008) indicates that the new regulations allow nonvocational public schools to still receive funding if they offer single-sex classes or entire single-sex schools, but in order to start these programs they have to have a governmental or educational objective. These programs are also required to be voluntary, so public schools cannot be required to offer these single-sex programs and if they do they cannot force students to participate in them. Diana Schemo explains in a New York Times article, \"Until now, publics school districts that offered a school to one sex generally had to provide a comparable school for students of the other sex. The new rules, however say districts can simply offer such students the option to attend comparable coeducational schools\" (Schemo, 2006, p. 2). Since these regulations were approved the number of public schools offering single-sex programs has been on a steady incline due to the fact that the rules are more flexible.\n\nIn the United States, the Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of single-sex public education in the 1996 case of \"United States v. Virginia\". This ruling, written by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg concluded that single-sex education in the public sector is constitutional only if comparable courses, services, and facilities are made available to both sexes. The No Child Left Behind Act contains provisions (sections 5131.a.23. and 5131c, 20 U.S.C. section 7215(a)(23), and section 7215(c)) designed by their authors—senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX)—to facilitate single-sex education in public schools. These provisions led to the publication of new federal rules in October 2006 to allow districts to create single-sex schools and classes provided that 1) enrollment is voluntary, and 2) comparable courses, services, and facilities are available to both sexes. The number of public schools offering single-sex classrooms rose from 4 in 1998 to 540 in 2010, according to the web site of the National Association for Single Sex Public Education.\n\nEducation Next and the Program on Education Policy and Governance at Harvard University sponsored a nationwide survey conducted by Knowledge Networks in early 2008. According to the survey, \"more than one-third of Americans feel parents should have the option of sending their child to a single-sex school\".\n\nIn the United States, gender segregation in schools was initially a product of an era when traditional gender roles categorically determined scholastic, professional, and social opportunities based on sex. For instance, leading experts supported gender segregation in higher education because they considered it \"to be dangerous and inappropriate for women. Experts claimed that scientific evidence established that women were physically and temperamentally not suited to the rigors of the academy . ... Separate education for men and women paralleled the separate spheres that each was expected to occupy.\" Furthermore, colleges and universities did not consider female applicants until the second half of the nineteenth century when the women's rights movement began advocating for gender equality. In response to social progression \"at the turn of the twentieth century, educators, particularly those in the South, fiercely resisted coeducation in elite all-male colleges, and most of the Ivy League institutions would drag their feet well into the twentieth century before becoming coeducational.\"\n\nGirls and boys segregation in schools is definitive of a sex-based classification, and, thus, it must be supported by an \"exceedingly persuasive justification\" to pass constitutional muster. In light of this requisite standard, the legality of single-sex educational institutions depends on the accuracy of underlying assumptions and support. Accordingly, it is important to be aware that a majority of research used to advocate the benefits of single-sex education is cloaked in uncertainty. Specifically, proponents \"who want to build a case for single-sex education usually draw on ... uncontrolled studies, small samples, and anecdotal evidence; the positive findings are repeated but are not analyzed\". Alternatively, opponents of single-sex education are able to gather tangible support from observable patterns of pervasive gender inequality in other social contexts.\n\nThe diversity of opinions that concurrently support gender segregation in education creates a complex and fragmented dynamic. The miscellany of proponents includes: conservatives emphasizing innate gender differences, traditionalists favoring rigid gender roles, democrats striving to remedy past discrimination, progressives promoting diversity in academic choices, and feminists championing exclusively female support systems. Because the coalition of proponents consists of parties with dissimilar interests, the body of \"educational research regarding the efficacy of single-sex schools is mixed at best\". Moreover, advocates tend to bolster their respective positions by emphasizing specific aspects of educational research without addressing the remaining \"array of evidence regarding institutions, structures, and processes that construct views on gender and equality\". Although educational research supporting gender segregation in schools is rife with ambiguity, \"the social research is absolutely clear that separation on the basis of identity characteristics creates feelings of individual inadequacy and instills beliefs about group hierarchy\".\n\nStudies used to make policy or legal arguments in the current debate over single-sex education narrowly \"look only at the slice of the social picture that schooling represents\". An informed assessment regarding the appropriate role of gender segregation in contemporary and future education developments requires contemplation of potential implications beyond the direct, internal, and immediate influences that single-sex schools stand to exert on students. It is undeniable that gender inequality exists, consciously or not, in contemporary social, professional, and domestic hierarchies or relationships. Indeed, \"[g]ender separatism is so pervasive that it is almost invisible. It is woven into the fabric of our daily social routines.\" Vestiges of past gender segregation and its connotations throughout American history validate questions concerning the likely effects of contemporary institutions of single-sex education on prevailing gender\n\nAssessing the current single-sex education debate through a broad lens realizes contextual factors that effectively constitute the crux of the issue. Most discussions regarding the potential effects of single-sex education characterize future students of such institutions as the sole beneficiaries of resulting impacts. An appropriate assessment, however, considers contextual implications and realizes that female citizens as a class will be the true beneficiaries if single-sex education developments reach fruition.\n\nIf the multitude of diverging interests that influence the single-sex education dispute were distilled, the core concern of the discussion asks whether single-sex education will help remedy past gender discrimination or not. In sum, [Gender] separatism originated in beliefs about innate differences between women and men in inclinations and abilities, sentiments that comported with 'widely held views about women's proper place.' The existence of segregated higher education was itself, for centuries, a critical factor in the limitation of women's professional opportunities. The implications of reviving single-sex education in America could further erode outdated sex stereotypes and, thereby, facilitate gender equality in other social contexts. Incorporating the national history of gender segregation allows all sides to balance specious benefits of future students against the potential regression of gender equality in America. Regardless of the outcome, female citizens will bear the brunt of effects and either reap the reward of societal progression or bear the burden of continued inequity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10579245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10579245", "title": "Success for All", "text": "Success for All\n\nSuccess for All (SFA) refers to standards-based Comprehensive School Reform curricula for early childhood through middle school, produced by the nonprofit organization Success for All Foundation (SFAF). Psychologist Robert Slavin of Johns Hopkins University founded SFAF along with his wife, Nancy Madden.\n\nIn 2010, Success for All received a nearly $50 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nThe Success for All program was critiqued in Jonathan Kozol's book, \"The Shame of the Nation\", as excessively dogmatic, utilitarian, and authoritarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4934730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4934730", "title": "Torrey's Topical Textbook", "text": "Torrey's Topical Textbook\n\nTorrey's Topical Textbook is a reference book or concordance for topics found in the Holy Bible. It contains subject index guides to topics found throughout the scriptures. The work contains 628 entries and over 20,000 scripture references.\n\nIt was published long enough ago that the original edition is believed to be out of copyright, but the exact year of publication is not known from sources cited here.\n\nReverend R.A. Torrey was known for his prolific writings on religious subjects including \"Methods of Bible Study\".\n\nIt is currently available in print from Sword of the Light Publishers, where it has . Due to the text not being under copyright, it is also popular for inclusion on CD-ROMs such as Cokesbury's \"Bible Discovery Library\" CD-ROM, .\n\nTitle Statement from library record: The New topical text book : a Scripture text book for the use of ministers, teachers, and all Christian workers / with introduction on methods of Bible study by R.A. Torrey ; with an appendix of outline of the fundamental doctrine of the Bible by David Allen Reed.\nPublished: Chicago : Revell, c1897.\nCall Number: MAIN BS 432 .N4 1897\n\n"}
{"id": "1885888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885888", "title": "Transcript (education)", "text": "Transcript (education)\n\nIn education, a transcript is an inventory of the courses taken and grades earned of a student throughout a course of study. There are official transcripts and transcripts which can be made by the student and verified and attested by an authorized person.\n\nA transcript is sometimes referred to as a marksheet, marklist or report card. \n\nIn the United States, a transcript is also called Cumulative Record File (CRF), permanent record, or simply record.\n\nIn the European ECTS system, transcripts are called Transcript of Records (ToR).\n\nIn United States education, a transcript is a copy of a student's permanent academic record, which usually means all courses taken, all grades received, all honors received and degrees conferred to a student from the first day of school to the current school year. A transcript may also contain the number of people in a class, and the average grade of the class. An official transcript is prepared and sent by the issuing school usually by the Student Registrar with an original signature of a school official on the school letterhead and is sealed by the school. When students are thinking about changing schools, the cumulative transcripts get mailed from school to school. Transcripts usually consist of grades 9-12 when applying to colleges. Transcripts are most often issued and used at the high school (grades 9-12) and university levels.\n\nColleges and universities that are owed money by a former student may \"hold\" the transcript, until they are paid. This may mean that former student cannot resume their education elsewhere. Many colleges and universities will not allow a prospective student until receiving communication (in the form of a physical stamp or seal) that the prior school is satisfied with its debt collection.\n\nIn the European ECTS system, a Transcript of Records (ToR) is used to document the performance of a student over a certain period of time by listing the course units or modules taken, the credits gained, and the grades awarded. The Transcript of Records provides a standard format for recording all study activities carried out by students. It is an essential tool for academic recognition.\n\nTranscript of Records and Diploma Supplements are a fairly recent development in most European countries. Students who obtained academic degrees in Europe prior to the Bologna Process of 1999 typically will not have received transcripts or diploma supplements and they cannot be produced retroactively for these students. Even today there are still European universities that are not ready to issue Transcripts or Diploma Supplements. Unlike in the US, there does not typically exist in Europe a system of schools directly mailing transcripts to other schools, something that also would be problematic in view of European privacy laws.\n\nThe ECTS Transcript of Records, created as part of the Bologna Process, preferably includes, along with the local grades, the ECTS grades of the student. It is used for mobile students at two separate moments. First, it must be issued and sent to the host institution by the home institution for all outgoing students before their departure in order to provide information about the course units/modules that they already have completed and the results obtained. Secondly it must be issued and sent by the host institution to the home institution for all incoming students at the end of their period of study.\n\nTranscript fraud is the alteration of a transcript issued by a legitimate school or university or the forgery of completely fake transcripts. Transcript fraud is a growing problem for both educational institutions and employers. This is related to diploma fraud, which is the forgery of school or university diplomas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942994", "title": "Turnitin", "text": "Turnitin\n\nTurnitin is a commercial, Internet-based plagiarism detection service launched in 1997. Universities and high schools typically buy licenses to use the software as a service (SaaS) website, which checks submitted documents against its database and the content of other websites with the aim of identifying plagiarism. Results can identify similarities with existing sources, and can also be used in formative assessment to help students learn to avoid plagiarism and improve their writing.\n\nStudents may be required to submit work to Turnitin as a requirement of taking a certain course or class. The software has been a source of controversy, with some students refusing to submit, arguing that requiring submission implies a presumption of guilt. Some critics have alleged that use of this proprietary software violates educational privacy as well as international intellectual-property laws, and exploits students' works for commercial purposes by permanently storing them in Turnitin's privately held database.\n\nTurnitin's parent company, iParadigms LLC, runs the informational website Plagiarism.org and also offers a similar plagiarism-detection service for newspaper editors and book and magazine publishers called iThenticate. Other tools included with the Turnitin suite are GradeMark (online grading and feedback) and PeerMark (peer-review services). Turnitin released the WriteCycle Suite on February 3, 2009, which bundles the Originality Checking service with its GradeMark online grading tools and PeerMark tools. Turnitin released Turnitin2 on September 4, 2010, dropping the \"WriteCycle\" nomenclature.\n\nThe Turnitin software checks for potentially unoriginal content by comparing submitted papers to several databases using a proprietary algorithm. It scans its own databases, and also has licensing agreements with large academic proprietary databases.\n\nThe essays submitted by students are stored in a database used to check for plagiarism. This prevents one student from using another student's paper, by identifying matching text between papers. In addition to student papers, the database contains a copy of the publicly accessible Internet, with the company using a web crawler to continually add content to Turnitin's archive. It also contains commercial and/or copyrighted pages from books, newspapers, and journals.\n\nStudents typically upload their papers directly to the service for teachers to access. Teachers may also submit student papers to Turnitin.com as individual files, by bulk upload, or as a ZIP file. Teachers can also set assignment-analysis options so that students can review the system's \"originality reports\" before they finalize their submission. A peer-review option is also available.\n\nSome virtual learning environments can be configured to support Turnitin, so that student assignments can be automatically submitted for analysis. Blackboard, Moodle, ANGEL, Instructure, Desire2Learn, Pearson Learning Studio, Sakai, and Studywiz integrate in some way with the software.\n\nThe Student Union at Dalhousie University has criticized the use of Turnitin at Canadian universities because the American government may be able to access the submitted papers and personal information in the database under the USA PATRIOT Act. Mount Saint Vincent University became the first Canadian university to ban Turnitin's service partly because of implications of the Act.\n\nLawyers for the company claim that student work is covered under the theory of implied license to evaluate, since it would be pointless to write the essays if they were not meant to be graded. That implied license, the lawyers argue, thus grants Turnitin permission to copy, reproduce and preserve the works. The company's lawyers further claim that dissertations and theses also carry with them an implied permission to archive in a publicly accessible collection such as a university library.\n\nUniversity of Minnesota Law School professor Dan Burk countered that the company's use of the papers may not meet the fair-use test for several reasons:\n\nWhen a group of students filed suit against Turnitin on that basis, in \"Vanderhye et al. v. iParadigms LLC\", the district court found the practice fell within fair use; on appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed.\n\nSome students argue that requiring them to submit papers to Turnitin creates a presumption of guilt, which may violate scholastic disciplinary codes and applicable local laws and judicial practice. Some teachers and professors support this argument when attempting to discourage their schools from joining Turnitin.\n\niParadigms, the company behind Turnitin, runs another commercial website called WriteCheck, where students must pay a fee to have a paper tested against the database used by Turnitin, in order to determine whether or not that paper will be detected as plagiarism when the student submit that paper to the main Turnitin website through the account provided by the school. The economist Alex Tabarrok has complained that the company \"are warlords who are arming both sides in this plagiarism war\".\n\nIn one well-publicized dispute over mandatory Turnitin submissions, Jesse Rosenfeld, a student at McGill University declined, in 2004, to submit his academic work to Turnitin. The University Senate eventually ruled that Rosenfeld's assignments were to be graded without using the service. The following year, another McGill student, Denise Brunsdon, refused to submit her assignment to Turnitin.com and won a similar ruling from the Senate Committee on Student Grievances.\n\nA few other Canadian universities are currently in the process of either total or partial ban of this service. On March 6, 2006, the Senate at Mount Saint Vincent University in Nova Scotia prohibited the submission of students' academic work to Turnitin.com and any software that requires students' work to become part of an external database where other parties might have access to it. This decision was granted after the students' union alerted the university community of their legal and privacy concerns associated with the use of Turnitin.com and other anti-plagiarism devices that profit from students' academic work. This was the first campus-wide ban of its kind in Canada, following decisions by Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Stanford not to use Turnitin.\n\nAt Ryerson University in Toronto, students may decide whether to submit their work to Turnitin.com or make alternate arrangements with an instructor.\nSimilar policies are in place at Brock University in Saint Catharines.\n\nOn March 27, 2007, with the help of an intellectual property attorney, two students from McLean High School in Virginia (with assistance from the Committee For Students' Rights) and two students attending Desert Vista High School in Phoenix, Arizona, filed suit in United States Circuit Court (Eastern District, Alexandria Division) alleging copyright infringement by iParadigms, Turnitin's parent company. Nearly a year later, Judge Claude M. Hilton granted summary judgment on the students' complaint in favor of iParadigms/Turnitin, because they had accepted the click-wrap agreement on the Turnitin website. The students appealed the ruling, and on April 16, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed Judge Hilton's judgment in favor of iParadigms/Turnitin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1155739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155739", "title": "Universe (1960 film)", "text": "Universe (1960 film)\n\nUniverse is a black-and-white short animated documentary made in 1960 by the National Film Board of Canada. It \"creates on the screen a vast, awe-inspiring picture of the universe as it would appear to a voyager through space. Realistic animation takes you into far regions of space, beyond the reach of the strongest telescope, past Moon, Sun, and Milky Way into galaxies yet unfathomed.\"\n\nThis visualization is grounded in the nightly work of Dr. Donald MacRae, an astronomer at the David Dunlap Observatory in Richmond Hill, Ontario, a facility formerly owned and operated by the University of Toronto, Canada, and now operated by the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada. Using the technology of his era, MacRae prepares his largely manually operated equipment and then photographs, by long exposure, one star. He actually strikes an arc between iron electrodes and makes a simultaneous exposure, which he can compare to the star's spectrum to determine its movement relative to Earth.\n\nThe film was a nominee at the 33rd Academy Awards in the category of Best Documentary Short Subject in 1961.\n\nDouglas Rain did the narration for the English version; the French version was titled Notre univers with narration by Gilles Pelletier. Eldon Rathburn composed the musical score.\n\nAfter this work, co-director Colin Low worked with Stanley Kubrick on \"\". Kubrick chose \"Universe\" narrator Douglas Rain as the voice of the HAL 9000 computer and also hired Wally Gentleman, who did optical effects for the NFB documentary, to work on \"2001\".\n\nAccording to Kubrick biographer Vincent Lobrutto:\n\nNASA alone ordered over 300 prints of the film. By 1976, the NFB had sold over 3100 copies of the film, and it was one of the most widely distributed educational films ever made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "663857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663857", "title": "Vocational school", "text": "Vocational school\n\nA vocational school, sometimes also called a trade school, career center, or vocational college, is a type of educational institution, which, depending on the country, may refer to secondary or post-secondary education designed to provide vocational education, or technical skills required to perform the tasks of a particular and specific job. In the case of secondary education, these schools differ from academic high schools which usually prepare students who aim to pursue tertiary education, rather than enter directly into the workforce. With regard to post-secondary education, vocational schools are traditionally distinguished from four-year colleges by their focus on job-specific training to students who are typically bound for one of the skilled trades, rather than providing academic training for students pursuing careers in a professional discipline. While many schools have largely adhered to this convention, the purely vocational focus of other trade schools began to shift in the 1990s \"toward a broader preparation that develops the academic\" as well as technical skills of their students.\n\nVocational schools were called \"technical colleges\" in Australia, and there were more than 20 schools specializing in vocational educational training (VET). Only four technical colleges remain, and these are now referred to as \"trade colleges\". At these colleges, students complete a modified year 12 certificate and commence a school-based apprenticeship in a trade of their choice. There are two trade colleges in Queensland; Brisbane, the Gold Coast, Australian Industry Trade College and one in Adelaide, St. Patrick's Technical College, and another in Perth, Australian Trades College.\n\nIn Queensland, students can also undertake VET at private and public high schools instead of studying for their overall position (OP), which is a tertiary entrance score. However these students usually undertake more limited vocational education of one day per week whereas in the trade colleges the training is longer.\n\nVocational schools are sometimes called \"colleges\" in Canada. However, a college may also refer to an institution that offers part of a university degree, or credits that may be transferred to a university.\n\nIn Ontario, secondary schools were separated into three streams: technical schools, commercial or business schools, and collegiates (the academic schools). Those schools still exist; however, the curriculum has changed that no matter which type of school one attends, they can still attend any post-secondary institution and still study a variety of subjects and others (either academic or practical).\n\nIn Ontario, the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities have divided postsecondary education into universities, community colleges and private career colleges.\n\nIn the Province of Quebec, there are some vocational programs offered at institutions called CEGEPs (\"collège d'enseignement général et professionnel\"), but these too may function as an introduction to university. Generally, students complete two years at a CEGEP directly out of high school, and then complete three years at a university (rather than the usual four), to earn an undergraduate degree. Alternatively, some CEGEPs offer vocational training, but it is more likely that vocational training will be found at institutions separate from the academic institutions, though they may still be called colleges.\n\nIn Central and Eastern Europe, a vocational education is represented in forms of (professional) vocational technical schools often abbreviated as PTU and technical colleges (technikum).\nVocational school or Vocational college ([vyshche] uchylyshche - study school) is considered a post-secondary education type school, but combines coursework of a high school and junior college stretching for six years. In Ukraine, the term is used mostly for sports schools sometimes interchangeably with the term college. Such college could be a separate entity or a branch of bigger university. Successful graduates receive a specialist degree.\n\nPTUs are usually a preparatory vocational education and are equivalent to the general education of the third degree in the former Soviet education, providing a lower level of vocational education (apprenticeship). It could be compared to a trade high school. In the 1920-30s, such PTUs were called schools of factory and plant apprenticeship, and later 1940s - vocational schools. Sometime after 1959, the name PTU was established, however, with the reorganization of the Soviet educational system these vocational schools renamed into lyceums. There were several types of PTUs such as middle city PTU and rural PTU.\n\nTechnical college (technicum) is becoming an obsolete term for a college in different parts of Central and Eastern Europe. Technicums provided a middle level of vocational education. Aside of technicums and PTU there also were vocational schools (Russian: Профессиональные училища) that also provided a middle level of vocational education. In 1920-30s Ukraine, technicums were a (technical) vocational institutes, however, during the 1930-32s Soviet educational reform they were degraded in their accreditation.\nInstitutes were considered a higher level of education; however, unlike universities, they were more oriented to a particular trade. With the reorganization of the Soviet education system, most institutes have been renamed as technical universities.\n\nThe Finnish system is divided between vocational and academic paths. Currently about 47 percent of Finnish students at age 16 go to vocational school. The vocational school is a secondary school for ages 16–21, and prepares the students for entering the workforce. The curriculum includes little academic general education, while the practical skills of each trade are stressed. The education is divided into eight main categories with a total of about 50 trades. The basic categories of education are\n\nIn addition to these categories administered by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Interior provides vocational education in the security and rescue branch for policemen, prison guards and firefighters.\n\nThe vocational schools are usually owned by the municipalities, but in special cases, private or state vocational schools exist. The state grants aid to all vocational schools on the same basis, regardless of the owner. On the other hand, the vocational schools are not allowed to operate for profit. The Ministry of Education issues licences to provide vocational education. In the licence, the municipality or a private entity is given permission to train a yearly quota of students for specific trades. The licence also specifies the area where the school must be located and the languages used in the education.\n\nThe vocational school students are selected by the schools on the basis of criteria set by the Ministry of Education. The basic qualification for the study is completed nine-year comprehensive school. Anyone may seek admission in any vocational school regardless of their domicile. In certain trades, bad health or invalidity may be acceptable grounds for refusing admission. The students do not pay tuition and they must be provided with health care and a free daily school lunch. However, the students must pay for the books, although the tools and practice material are provided to the students for free.\n\nIn tertiary education, there are higher vocational schools (\"ammattikorkeakoulu\" which is translated to \"polytechnic\" or \"university of applied sciences\"), which give three- to four-year degrees in more involved fields, like engineering (see insinööri (amk)) and nursing.\n\nIn contrast to the vocational school, an academically orientated upper secondary school, or senior high school () teaches no vocational skills. It prepares students for entering the university or a higher vocational school.\n\nA vocational school in Ireland is a type of secondary education school which places a large emphasis on vocational and technical education; this led to some conflict in the 1960s when the Regional Technical College system was in development. Since 2013 the schools have been managed by Education and Training Boards, which replaced Vocational Education Committees which were largely based on city or county boundaries. Establishment of the schools is largely provided by the state; funding is through block grant system providing about 90% of necessary funding requirements.\n\nVocational schools typically have further education courses in addition to the traditional courses at secondary level. For instance, post leaving certificate courses which are intended for school leavers and pre-third level education students.\n\nUntil the 1970s the vocational schools were seen as inferior to the other schools then available in Ireland. This was mainly because traditional courses such as the leaving certificate were not available at the schools, however this changed with the \"Investment in Education\" (1962) report which resulted in an upgrade in their status. Currently about 25% of secondary education students attend these schools.\n\nIn Japan vocational schools are known as . They are a part of Japan's higher education system. There are two-year schools that many students study at after finishing high school (although it is not always required that students graduate from high school). Some have a wide range of majors, others only a few majors. Some examples are computer technology, fashion and English.\n\nIn the Middle Ages boys learned a vocation through an apprenticeship. They were usually 10 years old when they entered service, and were first called \"leerling\" (apprentice), then \"gezel\" (journeyman) and after an exam - sometimes with an example of workmanship called a \"meesterproef\" (masterpiece) - they were called \"meester\" (master craftsman). In 1795, all of the guilds in the Netherlands were disbanded by Napoleon, and with them the guild vocational schooling system. After the French occupation, in the 1820s, the need for quality education caused more and more cities to form day and evening schools for various trades.\nIn 1854, the society \"Maatschappij tot verbetering van den werkenden stand\" (society to improve the working class) was founded in Amsterdam, that changed its name in 1861 to the \"Maatschappij voor de Werkende Stand\" (Society for the working class). This society started the first public vocational school (\"De Ambachtsschool\") in Amsterdam, and many cities followed. At first only for boys, later the \"Huishoudschool\" (housekeeping) was introduced as vocational schooling for girls. Housekeeping education began in 1888 with the Haagsche Kookschool in The Hague.\n\nIn 1968 the law called the \"Mammoetwet\" changed all of this, effectively dissolving the Ambachtsschool and the Huishoudschool. The name was changed to LTS (\"lagere technische school\", lower technical school), where mainly boys went because of its technical nature, and the other option, where most girls went, was LBO (\"lager beroepsonderwijs\", lower vocational education). In 1992 both LTS and LBO changed to VBO (\"voorbereidend beroepsonderwijs\", preparatory vocational education) and since 1999 VBO together with MAVO (\"middelbaar algemeen voortgezet onderwijs\", intermediate general secondary education) changed to the current VMBO (\"voorbereidend middelbaar beroepsonderwijs\", preparatory intermediate vocational education).\n\nIn the United States, there is a very large difference between career college and vocational college. The term \"career college\" is generally reserved for post-secondary for-profit institutions. Conversely, vocational schools are government-owned or at least government-supported institutions, occupy two full years of study, and their credits are by and large accepted elsewhere in the academic world and in some instances such as charter academies or magnet schools may take the place of the final years of high school.\n\nCareer colleges on the other hand are generally not government supported in any capacity, occupy periods of study less than a year, and their training and certifications are rarely recognized by the larger academic world. In addition, as most career colleges are private schools, this group may be further subdivided into non-profit schools and proprietary schools, operated for the sole economic benefit of their owners.\n\nAs a result of this emphasis on the commercialization of education, a widespread poor reputation for quality was retained by a great number of career colleges for over promising what the job prospects for their graduates would actually be in their field of study upon completion of their program, and for emphasizing the number of careers from which a student could choose.\n\nEven though the popularity of career colleges has exploded in recent years, the number of government-sponsored vocational schools in the United States has decreased significantly. \n\nThe Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE) is the largest American national education association dedicated to the advancement of career and technical education or vocational education that prepares youth and adults for careers.\n\nEarlier vocational schools such as California Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University have gone on to become full degree-granting institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16238467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16238467", "title": "WikiEducator", "text": "WikiEducator\n\nWikiEducator is an international online community project for the collaborative development of learning materials, which educators are free to reuse, adapt and share without restriction. WikiEducator was launched in 2006 and is supported by the non-profit Open Education Resource Foundation (OER). A variety of learning resources are available on WikiEducator: direct instructional resources such as lesson plans and full courses, as well as learning-support resources, such as individual school portals and funding proposals.\n\nWikiEducator's stated goal is to build a thriving and sustainable global community dedicated to the design, development and delivery of free content for learning in realisation of a free version of the education curriculum by 2015. The project purports to focus on building capacity in the use of MediaWiki and related free software technologies, developing free content for use in educational institutions and elsewhere, facilitating the establishment of community networks and collaboration, and fostering new technologies.\n\nWayne Mackintosh created the prototype of WikiEducator on a desktop machine, making the very first edit on 13 February 2006. He registered the WikiEducator domain name on 12 February 2006 in New Zealand. In April 2006, the prototype was moved onto a hosted server with the financial assistance of Commonwealth of Learning (COL). COL provided sponsorship and leadership for the project, including receipt of a $100,000 grant from The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation to develop WikiEducator. On 1 July 2009, WikiEducator became an independent entity, headquartered at the new International Centre for Open Education at Otago Polytechnic in Dunedin, New Zealand. While COL continues to provide some financial support for WikiEducator, the Open Education Resource Foundation maintains the technical and operational infrastructure of the WikiEducator community in accordance with the policies approved by the WikiEducator Community Council.\n\nWikEducator's training programme is called Learning4Content (L4C). Under this initiative, the WikiEducator project arranges free face-to-face as well as online wiki skills and OER development trainings. In return for participants' pledge to develop a learning resource on the wiki, the WikiEducator community supports them in their journey to acquire wiki editing skills and to experience the peer-based model for developing OERs. The WikiEducator community will also certify new WikiEducators who request certification of their skills under the L4C initiative.\n\nWikiEducator was the inaugural recipient of the MERLOT Africa Network’s award for exemplary open educational resources (OERs) practices in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27100212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27100212", "title": "William S. Rice", "text": "William S. Rice\n\nWilliam Seltzer Rice (June 23, 1873 – August 27, 1963) was an American woodblock print artist, art educator and author, associated with the Arts and Crafts movement in Northern California.\n\nBorn and raised in Manheim in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, Rice grew up with his parents in his grandparent's home on Market Square that had been occupied by his family for four generations. His parents were John Rice and Sara Seltzer Rice. His grandfather, Samuel Rice, operated a carriage painting business in a shop at the back of the property. Interested in painting from a young age, William Rice set up a small studio in the corner of his grandfather's shop. He took occasional lessons from itinerant painters.\n\nAfter completing high school, Rice himself began teaching drawing, saving his money to attend art school in Philadelphia, where he lived with a cousin. He won an art school scholarship, and also got a job with the \"Philadelphia Times\" as a staff artist. He began studies in 1893 at the newly founded Drexel Institute, where Howard Pyle was among his teachers.\n\nRice also attended classes at the Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art, now known as the University of the Arts. There, he began a friendship with Frederick Meyer, a German immigrant who later was hired as art supervisor for the Stockton public schools.\n\nIn 1900, Meyer hired Rice as an assistant art supervisor for Stockton public schools, and Rice relocated to Stockton, California. By 1902, Meyer moved to San Francisco, and Rice was promoted to Meyer's job. Rice began a personal exploration of scenic California, visiting Yosemite National Park in 1901 and Lake Tahoe in 1904. He also visited all of the Spanish missions in California.\n\nIn 1910, Meyer convinced Rice to relocate to the San Francisco Bay Area to participate more actively in the Arts and Crafts Movement, and Rice obtained a job teaching art for the Alameda public schools. He fraternized with members of the Berkeley Art Colony and contributed his block prints to their \"Exhibition of California Artists\" at the Hillside Club in 1911. \n\nRice spent the rest of his professional career teaching art in the Alameda and Oakland public schools, including at Alameda High School, Fremont High School (1919-30), Castlemont High School (1930-40), and the UC Extension evening classes at University of California, Berkeley (1932-43). He taught drawing and painting, as well as a variety of crafts, including metalworking and leather working. \n\nRice's friend Frederick Meyer had founded the School of the California Guild of Arts and Crafts, originally located in Berkeley and later in Oakland. After receiving accreditation, the school was renamed in 1936 the California College of Arts and Crafts and in 2003 became the California College of the Arts. Meyer hired Rice to teach summer classes at his school and Rice was able to obtain his B.F.A. in 1929 from the School of the California Guild of Arts and Crafts.\n\nHe began freelance writing and illustrating for Sunset Magazine.\n\nIn 1913, Rice studied design with Ralph H. Johonnot, an associate of Arthur Wesley Dow, who was an early advocate of color block printing in the United States. Rice toured Europe in the summer of 1913, visiting Chartres, Rothenberg and Venice.\n\nIn 1915, Rice married Susan Steel, and they honeymooned at Lake Tahoe, California. That same year, the Panama–Pacific International Exposition took place in San Francisco, and he was impressed by the Japanese woodblock prints he saw there. He resolved to become a woodblock print artist. Instead of following the traditional Japanese team method, where an artist did an original painting, who then turned it over to a team of wood carvers and printers, he decided to take control of the entire creative process himself.\n\nIn 1918, Rice had his first major exhibition of wood and linoleum block prints at the Palace of Fine Arts in San Francisco, which was designed by Bernard Maybeck for the Panama Pacific International Exposition.\n\nGump's in San Francisco was one of his leading dealers. His work was displayed in the printmaker's exhibition at the 1939 New York World's Fair.\n\nRice's artistic collaborators and influences included Pedro de Lemos, Elizabeth Norton, Roi Partridge, Gustave Baumann, Lorenzo P. Latimer, Norma Bassett Hall and the sisters Mary & Frances Gearhart.\n\nRice's work was featured in a one-man show at Villa Montalvo in Saratoga, California in 1959.\n\nRice died at his home in Oakland, California on 27 August 1963 at the age of 90. He is buried in his hometown at the Manheim Fairview Cemetery in Manheim, Pennsylvania.\n\nRice wrote two teaching texts, \"Block Printing in the Schools\" (1929) and \"Block Prints: How To Make Them\" (1941), both published by Bruce Publishing Company.\n\nRice is included in the book \"Artists in California 1786-1940\" (1986) by Edan Milton Hughes.\n\nHis daughter, Roberta Rice Treseder, published a book in 2009, \"William S. Rice: California Block Prints\" which is a biography and includes images of his printmaking as well as woodblock printing methods and materials. And his granddaughter, Ellen Treseder Sexauer, wrote a book in 2015, \"William S. Rice, Art and Life\". \n\nIn 1978–1979, the Smithsonian American Art Museum held an exhibition called \"American Color Woodcuts: The Years of Transition\", that featured the works of 40 artists including Rice.\n\nIn 2015 and 2016, “The Nature of William S. Rice: Arts and Crafts Painter and Printmaker” exhibition was released and travelled to the Crocker Art Museum and Pasadena Museum of California Art.\n\nRice's works are in many public art collections including; California College of the Arts, National Museum of American Art, Boston Public Library, New York Public Library, California State Library, Library of Congress, Achenbach Foundation for the Graphic Arts, Elvehjem Museum, Oakland Museum of California, Two Red Roses Foundation, Fitzwilliam Museum, Fine Art Museums of San Francisco, Saint Mary's College of California Museum of Art, Indianapolis Museum of Art, and Hood Museum of Art at Dartmouth College.\n\nRice won the \"Best Print\" award at the show of the California Society of Etchers in 1933.\n\nThis is a list of select art exhibitions of Rice.\n\n\n"}
