{"id": "51538647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51538647", "title": "2016 Niger Delta conflict", "text": "2016 Niger Delta conflict\n\nThe 2016 Niger Delta conflict is an ongoing conflict around the Niger Delta region of Nigeria in a bid for the secession of the region, which was a part of the breakaway state of Biafra. It follows on-and-off conflict in the Christian-dominated southern Niger Delta in the preceding years, as well as an insurgency in the Muslim-dominated northeast.\n\nLike most other African countries, British Nigeria grouped people together for governance without respect for their religious, linguistic, and ethnic differences. The region became part of a Niger Coast Protectorate in the 1890s when communities of Niger Delta signed an agreement with the British colonial agents. It was subsumed into the Southern Nigeria Protectorate in 1900 without consultations with the people of the region. Southern Nigeria was then merged with the Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914 despite the political and cultural differences between the various ethnicities. Nigeria, which gained independence from the United Kingdom in 1960, had at that time a population of 60 million people consisting of nearly 300 differing ethnic and cultural groups.\n\nNigeria's oil, which became its primary source of income after independence from the British Empire, was located in the south of the country. The Igbo-dominated secessionist state of Biafra that came into existence in 1967 acquired the oil-rich region which played a key role in the Nigerian civil war. Despite this, the region's development was ignored by successive governments. As a result, the region remains the poorest and most backward region of the country. The region's waters have also become highly polluted due to millions of tons of oil being spilled. Due to these reasons, the region has become afflicted with militancy.\n\nPeople of the region have protested against the negative impact of the oil industry, corruption and lack of development. In recent years, militant groups seeking to control the resources have indulged in oil theft and violence which sometimes has been claimed as retribution for mistreatment of the locals by the oil industry. A violent insurgency was carried out under the banner Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) until an amnesty agreement in 2009. The election of Goodluck Jonathan as President of Nigeria was a significant factor in the ceasefire as he hailed from the region and was considered to be sympathetic to it. The conflict reignited after the election of Muhammadu Buhari as president in 2015. This was due, in part, to rumours that Buhari was considering scrapping the amnesty agreement and, more generally, the traditional northern–southern and Muslim–Christian divide.\n\nA spate of bombings on oil installations started in February 2016. The Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) then publicly announced its existence in March 2016. The NDA's declared aims are to create a sovereign state and they have threatened to disrupt Nigeria's economy to achieve their goals. The group has also criticised President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari for never visiting the region as well as for his detention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader Nnamdi Kanu, who said he was not affiliated with either MEND or the NDA. A militant group calling itself Red Egbesu Water Lions later emerged in May 2016 and demanded his release, as well as that of former National Security Advisor Sambo Dasuki. It also demanded that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission de-freeze the bank accounts of Government Ekpemupolo, as well as unconditional compensation to the victims of the Bonga oil spill and Chevron gas explosion. It further threatened to shut down all oil exploration activities in the region of its demands were not met. Another group calling itself Egbesu Mightier Fraternity emerged in the same month, demanding the release of Kanu and Dasuki in 14 days and that the Nigerian military leave the Gbaramatu Kingdom and stop harassing Ekpemupolo. It also threatened to blow up all offshore facilities in the region if the government did not meet its demands.\n\nA group calling itself Joint Niger Delta Liberation Force emerged in early June 2016 and vowed to launch six missiles in the Niger Delta on 7 June. It further warned that it will bring down any helicopter deployed in the area and that it might shut down the Nigerian satellite orbit within a week so that telecommunications within the country would be cut off. It also demanded that the Nigerian military leave the Ijaw communities. On 7 June, it renewed its threat claiming that it was going to target national buildings and infrastructure of oil companies in Lagos, Abuja and Kaduna, as well as all military formations in Lagos, Abuja, Kaduna and Benue.\n\nA dispute then developed between the militant factions as one of the groups calling itself Reformed Egbesu Boys of the Niger Delta unilaterally announced a ceasefire on 13 June. Although the group agreed with other groups over cessation of hostilities, it was opposed to demands regarding Kanu and Dasuki.\n\nA group calling itself the Niger Delta Red Squad declared its existence in late June 2016. The group claimed that it had blown up two pipelines belonging to Shell in the Asa/Awarra axis and also threatened to attack major oil pipelines in Oguta Council area, as well as shutdown all oil wells in Imo State. A few days later, another group calling itself Adaka Boro Avengers emerged, threatening to destroy oil producing facilities and warned all oil companies to leave the Niger Delta within a week In July, the group announced that it would declare an independent state on 1 August and warned all northern Nigerians to leave the region. It however abandoned its bid on the same day it was supposed to declare an independent state.\n\nA group calling itself Asawana Deadly Force of Niger Delta also emerged in late June 2016 and demanded independence for the region within a few days while threatening to shut down oil production in the region if it failed to achieve its goal.\n\nOn 8 July, a new group called Niger Delta Revolutionary Crusaders (NDRC) bombed the Brass Creek Manifold in Bayelsa State. On 13 July, the group then declared a two-week ceasefire. On 1 August, the group released a statement in which it accused northern Nigerians of plotting to Islamisise the region in order to take control of its oil. After the new Boko Haram leader Abu Musab al-Barnawi threatened to increase attacks on Christians and destroy churches, the NDRC, on 6 August, threatened to kill Muslims and destroy mosques if Boko Haram carried out its threats.\n\nOn 9 August, Niger Delta Greenland Justice Mandate declared its existence and threatened to destroy refineries in Port Harcourt and Warri within 48 hours, as well as a gas plant in Otu Jeremi within a few days. The next day, the group reportedly blew up a major oil pipeline operated by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) in Isoko On 12 August, the group warned that it would blow up more oil installations in the future. On 19 August, the group was reported to have blown up two pipelines belonging to NPDC in Delta State.\n\nIn late August 2016, the NDA declared a unilateral ceasefire and agreed to negotiations with the Nigerian government. After the declaration of a ceasefire by the Niger Delta Avengers, the Reformed Egbesu Fraternities comprising the three militants groups Egbesu Boys of the Niger Delta, Egbesu Red Water Lions and Egbesu Mightier Fraternity also announced a 60-day ceasefire.\n\nNigeria's Army launched \"Operation Crocodile Smile\" in late August to get rid of all criminal activities in Niger Delta. On 26 September, five militants were killed in clashes while 23 were arrested. On 30 August, NDGJM blew up the Ogor-Oteri oil pipeline in the Delta state and declared the launch of \"Operation Crocodile Tears\" in response to the military's operation. On 1 September, the Nigerian Army captured Gabriel Ogbudje, a supposed ex-militant who they claimed had now become leader of a new militant group Otugas Fire Force. 14 oil workers and their driver on their way to Port Harcourt were kidnapped by unknown gunmen on 2 September after the vehicle transporting them was hijacked on Omoku-Elele road.\n\nOn 4 September, NDGJM claimed it had rigged all the marked oil and gas facilities with explosives and warned residents living nearby to evacuate. Chief of Army Staff Tukur Yusuf Buratai officially launched the operation on 5 September. Niger Delta Avengers mocked the operation on 8 September claiming 20 soldiers were killed in it and also claimed that the Nigerian military was harassing citizens of Niger Delta. The operation concluded on 11 September. During the operation, 23 militants were killed while 38 militant camps, 91 illegal refineries and bunkering sites were destroyed during the operation.\n\nThe oil workers kidnapped in early September were released by 18 September after the police engaged in a shootout with the kidnappers. On 13 September, NDGJM stated they had blown up the Afiesere-Iwhrenene pipeline belonging to NPDC in Ughelli North. On 19 September, the group stated they had blown up a crude oil pipeline belonging to NPDC near Ekuigbo in Ughelli North. On 20 September, Abraham Suru, one of the suspected leaders of NDA was arrested.\n\nOn 24 September, Niger Delta Avengers claimed they had blown up the Bonny pipeline. On 27 September, a militant group calling itself Niger Delta Volunteers (NDV) warned the government that it will cripple all its infrastructure that generated income, describing the bombing by Avengers on Bonny pipeline as a \"child's play\". It also warned oil companies to evacuate their staff and suspend their operations, adding that their next strike will be deadly. Meanwhile, Niger Delta Justice Defence Group (NDJDG) blew up an oil pipeline in Gokana. On 28 September, NDJDG warned Buhari that they will destroy any national asset he tries to sell. Meanwhile, a militant was killed in clashes between NDA and Imo Security Network in Owerri. On 29 September, NDGJM claimed it had blown up the Unenurhie-Evwreni pipeline belonging to the NPDC.\n\nOn 9 November, Niger Delta Avengers said it was behind an attack on Shell's Forçados crude pipeline a day earlier.\n\nMEND had condemned the ensuing militancy in its early days. However, by September it abandoned the negotiating position with the government and sought a unified voice for the Niger Delta, even proposing to work with the NDA.\n\nThe NDA announced its intention for a declaration of independence on 1 October, which gained the support of IPOB despite the group saying it was unaffiliated with the former as Powerful said: \"We have nothing to do with MEND, but our philosophy aligns with that of Niger Delta Avengers who bravely called for the release of our leader and had maintained it till date. Avengers and IPOB are one in pursuit of freedom for all the peoples of Biafra. IPOB is in total support of the proposed independence declaration proposed by Avengers on the 1st of October.\" However, later IPOB and the Renegade Indigenous People of Biafra (RENIPOB), a faction from the Kanu-led IPOB, decided to re-unite and would surrender to the Nigerian government on 15 January 2017. As a consequence its intention for the burning of the flag of Biafra on 1 October was then replaced by an intention of surrender to the government.\n\nFollowing Kanu's arrest, IPOB spokesman, Comrade Emma Powerful said of Nigeria that it was a \"contraption done by the former British colonialists which is no longer working, hence the quest of the Biafrans to opt out of the incompatible marriage – the 1914 Amalgamation\" and added that Kanu did not say he will bomb Nigeria but to destroy the existence of Nigeria with truth before the eyes of everybody Shout it from roof top, let the birds of heaven sing it, send out Biafran towncriers with horn speakers and please inform it to Nigerians, that Biafrans must go for good as the one set to cremate Nigeria has finally come to be reality. The Director of Radio Biafra and the humble servant of the blessed people of Biafra, Kanu has released a word that is sending shivers down the spines of the Nigerian Lords. The British trained revolutionary and political scientist of international repute, recently said that his hatred for Nigeria can only be described as pathological; borne out of the cruelty mankind has inflicted on his people through the contraption called Nigeria. Prophet Kanu, who was born in the thick of the genocidal war waged against his Biafran people, affirmed that the contraption referred to as Nigeria only exists today because the white Europeans said so, insisting that it was not created by God the natural way all nations on earth came into existence.\n"}
{"id": "24555020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24555020", "title": "AN/DRC-8 Emergency Rocket Communications System", "text": "AN/DRC-8 Emergency Rocket Communications System\n\nThe Emergency Rocket Communications System (ERCS) was designed to provide a reliable and survivable emergency communications method for the United States National Command Authority, using a UHF repeater placed atop a Blue Scout rocket or Minuteman II intercontinental ballistic missile. ERCS was deactivated as a communication means when President George H.W. Bush issued a message to stand down SIOP-committed bombers and Minuteman IIs on 27 September 1991. Headquarters SAC was given approval by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to deactivate the 494L payloads beginning 1 October 1992. However, Headquarters SAC believed it was inefficient and unnecessary to support ERCS past fiscal year 1991, and kept the accelerated deactivation schedule.\n\nThe mission of the Emergency Rocket Communications System was to provide assured communication to United States strategic forces in the event of a nuclear attack. ERCS was basically a rocket or missile that carried a UHF transmitter as a payload instead of a nuclear warhead. In the event of a nuclear attack, ERCS would launch the UHF transmitter into \"low space\" to transmit an Emergency Action Message (EAM) to Strategic Air Command units.\n\nThe ERCS sorties had two possible trajectories, East and West, to inform SAC alert forces in the northern tier bases (i.e. Minot AFB, Fairchild AFB, Grand Forks AFB).\n\nERCS was deactivated and taken out of the inventory as other means of emergency communication (i.e. ISST and Milstar) came online.\n\nERCS was also known as Project 279 (Blue Scout version) and Project 494L (Minuteman version). Sources report that the Project 279 was also known as Project Beanstalk; while the Minuteman system may have been designated LEM-70A.\n\nThe Blue Scout version of ERCS (Program 279) was deployed to three sites near Wisner, West Point, and Tekamah, Nebraska. The Program 494L Minuteman version of ERCS was only deployed to Whiteman AFB, Missouri's 351st Strategic Missile Wing, under the direct control of the 510th Strategic Missile Squadron (later the 510th Missile Squadron).\n\nERCS was a three part communications system composed of the following elements:\n\nInterface with ERCS hardware was provided by three modes:\n\nHeadquarters Strategic Air Command had the ability to make inputs directly into the missile. The Numbered Air Forces could direct the missile crew to make the inputs. In the case of the airborne command post, inputs could be made directly into the missile and missile launch could be made from the aircraft.\n\nOperational tests of the 494L Minuteman II ERCS were conducted by Air Force Systems Command and Strategic Air Command under the code name GIANT MOON. Launch Control Facility Oscar-1A (LCF O-1A) and Launch Facility Zero Four (LF-04) at Vandenberg AFB, California were modified in 1977 to perform ERCS-related test functions.\n\nAfter the system was declassified, the ten ERCS sorties were powered down and removed from their launch facilities. During these power down operations, the location of the sorties were:\n\nThe Ogden Air Materiel Area at Hill AFB, Utah was made the Systems Support Manager in August 1963.\n\n\nERCS is mentioned in \"\" by David Hoffman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1140992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140992", "title": "Abbo Cernuus", "text": "Abbo Cernuus\n\nAbbo Cernuus (\"the Crooked\"), Abbo Parisiensis, or Abbo of Saint-Germain was a Neustrian Benedictine monk and poet of the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés in Paris. He was born about the middle of the ninth century.\n\nAbbo was present at the Siege of Paris by the Vikings in 885–886. He was the only eyewitness who wrote a description of it, in Latin verse, with an account of subsequent events to 896, the so-called \"De bellis Parisiacæ urbis\" or \"Bella Parisiacæ urbis\" (\"Wars of the City of Paris\"). Abbo also left some sermons for the instruction of clerics in Paris and Poitiers (\"Patrologia Latina\", CXXXII).\n\nThough coming from one of the most prominent ecclesiastical centres of ninth-century Francia the monk Abbo is unusually obscure for an individual responsible for a source such as the \"De bellis\". The little that we do know is gleaned from this work, with very little corroboratory evidence from elsewhere. Though we know he was a Neustrian we do not know his political agenda or affiliations, as he contradicts his own \"views\" throughout the work. As a result, historians have often speculated that the \"De bellis\" was \"refined\" at a later date by a separate editor.\n\nAbbo can be viewed as a source for the collapse of Carolingian hegemony in 887–88. He regarded Odo as the legitimate successor of Charles the Fat in West Francia after Charles' death (888) and does not seem to have regarded the deposition of East Francia as binding on West Francia. Abbo also regards the empire as Frankish and he himself, though a Neustrian and Parisian, as Frankish as well. He does not present a united West Francia as a more basic political unit than the empire and is therefore seen by some historians as refuting the hypothesis that regional identities led to the breakup of the empire within Abbo's lifetime.\n\nWe have no definitive date for Abbo's death, though it has been assumed to be later than 922. Around that year Bishop Fulrad of Paris endeavored to publish a selection of Abbo's sermons. If the bishop was willing to publish his sermons while Abbo was still alive, why did he choose not to endorse the \"De bellis\"?\n\nThe \"Wars of the City of Paris\" was written in the 890s. The poem itself narrates events taking place over an eleven-year period from 885 to 896. It was first composed \"circa\" 890 and later extended up to 896. The entire poem consists of 1,393 lines in three books: 660 lines in the first book, 618 in the second, and 115 in the third. Throughout the poem Abbo employs a dactylic hexameter, though with the occasional fault. This metre helps to underpin the epic nature of the poem, a conscious aim of Abbo. The purpose of the work was both scholarly and hortative, warning future generations of the Viking menace. Its polemic literary style (sometimes called the \"hermeneutic style\") is typical of its period and place, though it is studded with \"obscure Grecisms.\" It has usually received negative criticism from historians, or even been viewed as a contemporary parody of the hermeneutic style.\n\nA detailed and political work, it has been underused by historians of the late Carolingians. It may have been written at the bequest or insistence of Odo of France, who appears as the hero and \"future king\" (\"rex futurus\") in the poem. The poet views Odo through the lens of the 890s. He praises Odo as \"the noblest\" of the city of Paris, more so than Askericus or Joscelin. Abbo also presents the Emperor Charles III, whom he refers to as \"basileus Francorum\" (\"emperor of the Franks\"), in a positive light. The poem stresses the magnitude and diversity of the united Frankish empire. Significantly, he places no blame on the emperor for the siege of Paris nor for the subsequent harrying of Burgundy, which he actually considered to be appropriate for the Burgundians' refusal to aid the city. Abbo even warns the Neustrians not to use \"the purple to keep warm\", a reference to overreliance on imperial protection, purple being an imperial colour. The term \"basileus\" is likewise a distinctly Byzantine term.\n\nOverall the \"De bellis\" seems less concerned with historical accuracy than with theology, preferring to ask why Paris was besieged by the Vikings and to speculate on the spiritual battle that \"must\" have occurred. Since this theme is most prominent in Book III, it has been treated with neglect by historians of the period. Henri Waquet even chose to omit it from his edition of the work entirely.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1596177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596177", "title": "Aetites", "text": "Aetites\n\nIn the magico-medical tradition of Europe and the Near East, the aetites (singular in Latin) or aetite (anglicized) is a stone used to promote childbirth. It is also called an eagle-stone, aquiline, or aquilaeus. The stone is said to prevent spontaneous abortion and premature delivery, while shortening labor and parturition for a full-term birth.\n\nFrom Theophrastus onwards, the belief is also recorded that the stone had the ability to \"give birth\" to other stones, based on the crystals found within. This fed into the belief that at least some minerals could be gendered into male and female forms.\n\nThe aetites is a type of hollow geode; inside, small loose pieces rattle when shaken. An official publication of the United States Bureau of Mines in 1920 defined an aetite as:\n\nThe American Geological Institute defines the eaglestone as \"a concretionary nodule of clay ironstone about the size of a walnut that the ancients believed an eagle takes to her nest to facilitate egg-laying.\"\n\nAccording to Dioscorides (5.160), the aetite should be fastened to the left arm to protect the fetus; at the time of birth, it should be moved to the hip area to ease delivery. He also recommends them for the treatment of epilepsy, and says that when mixed with meat they will \"betray a thief\".\nPliny describes four types of aetites in his \"Natural History\" and outlines their magico-medical use:\n\nPliny says that the stone is found in the nests of eagles, who cannot propagate without them.\n\nThe 4th-century A.D. magico-medical text \"Cyranides\" also claims that the aetite worn as an amulet can prevent miscarriage caused by female demons such as Gello.\n\nJewish women used birthing stones, and the Talmud refers to the \"preserving stone,\" worn as an amulet even during Shabbat to prevent miscarriage. Although medieval sources point to the eagle-stone, the identification is not certain. Rabbis in medieval France and Germany, and a Polish talmudist in the 16th century, describe the stone as hollow, with a smaller stone inside: \"the stone within a stone represented a fetus in the womb.\" One medieval French source says that the stone \"is pierced through the middle, and is round, about as large and heavy as a medium sized egg, glassy in appearance, and is to be found in the fields.\"\n\nThe aetite, to be carried by pregnant women on their right side, is mentioned by Ruberto Bernardi in his 1364 book of popular medical lore. The Italian Renaissance philosopher Ficino ascribes the aetite's ability to ease childbirth to the astrological influences of the planet Venus and the Moon. In 1494, Isabella d'Este, the \"marchesa\" of Mantua, expressed her confidence in the power of these stones. \nThe aetite appears in a Spanish work on natural magic by Hernando Castrillo, first published in 1636. Alvaro Alonso Barba's work on metallurgy (Madrid, 1640) touts the efficacy of the \"aetites\", advising that the stone be tied to the left arm to prevent spontaneous abortion, and to the right arm for the opposite effect. The work was widely reviewed, reprinted and translated.\n\nThe 1660 book \"Occult Physick\" said the aetite\n\nAetite, along with bloodstone (hematite), was the subject of a 1665 book by J.L. Bausch, municipal physician of Schweinfurt and founder of the Academy of the Curious as to Nature. Bausch, however, cautions that empty promises of the stone's powers exceed the limits of both medicine and nature. Thomas Browne affirmed the stone's application to obstetrics in his \"Pseudodoxia Epidemica\" (1672), but doubted the story about eagles.\n\n"}
{"id": "34621692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34621692", "title": "Alison Edith Hilda Drummond", "text": "Alison Edith Hilda Drummond\n\nAlison Edith Hilda Drummond (22 January 1903–3 July 1984) was a New Zealand farmer, writer, historian and editor. She was born in Waitekauri, Thames/Coromandel, New Zealand on 22 January 1903.\n"}
{"id": "11343981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11343981", "title": "András Róna-Tas", "text": "András Róna-Tas\n\nAndrás Róna-Tas (born 30 December 1931) is a Hungarian historian and linguist. He was born in 1931 in Budapest. Róna-Tas studied under such preeminent professors as Gyula Ortutay and Lajos Ligeti, and received a degree in folklore and eastern linguistics (Tibetan, Mongol, and Turkish.)\n\nIn 1957-58, Róna-Tas conducted anthropological fieldwork in Mongolia, studying the culture, language, and folklore of the nomadic tribes in that country. During the mid-1960s Róna-Tas focused his fieldwork on the Chuvash people of the middle Volga River basin. In 1964, Róna-Tas defended his candidates (CSc) degree, and finally in 1971 he earned a doctorate from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (DSc) with his thesis \"The Theory of Linguistic Affinity and the Linguistic Relations between the Chuvash and Mongol Languages\", published as \"Linguistic Affinity\" in 1978.\n\nFrom 1968-2002, Róna-Tas was professor of Altaic Studies and Early Hungarian History at József Attila University in Szeged, where he is now a distinguished professor emeritus. He has published over 450 papers, monographs and reviews. His magnum opus, \"The Landtaking Hungarians\", was published in 1996 and an extended translated version appeared in English in 1999. \n\nIn addition to his work on the early Magyars, Róna-Tas has published numerous works on other Eurasian societies such as the Tibetans, Kipchaks, Khazars, Oghuz Turks and Alans. He was awarded the prestigious Humboldt Prize in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "39902597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39902597", "title": "Baruch Kimmerling", "text": "Baruch Kimmerling\n\nBaruch Kimmerling (Hebrew: ברוך קימרלינג‎; 16 October 1939 – 20 May 2007) was an Israeli scholar and professor of sociology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Upon his death in 2007, \"The Times\" described him as \"the first academic to use scholarship to reexamine the founding tenets of Zionism and the Israeli State\". Though a sociologist by training, Kimmerling was associated with the New Historians, a group of Israeli scholars who question the official narrative of Israel's creation.\n\nBaruch Kimmerling was born in the Transylvanian town of Turda, Romania in 1939. He was born with cerebral palsy, a developmental disability which would confine him to a wheelchair for the last three decades of his life. His family narrowly avoided the Holocaust by escaping from Turda in a Romani wagon in 1944, after rumors of the imminent deportation of the Jews began circulating. During the journey, the wagon was strafed by a German plane. When the Kimmerling family returned to Turda after the war had ended, they discovered their property had gone. The family immigrated to Israel in 1952, and took up residence in a ma'abara (immigrants' camp), Sha'ar ha-Aliya, before moving to a small apartment on the outskirts of Netanya.\n\nDespite his significant disabilities, which caused Kimmerling to experience motor difficulties and speech problems, his parents raised him as a typical child and encouraged him to strive high. Exempt from conscription into the Israel Defense Forces, Kimmerling enrolled in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1963, and obtained his PhD in 1973 as a sociologist. Kimmerling was known for his work analyzing pre-1948 Jewish settlement in Palestine in terms of colonialism. He lectured widely and wrote nine books and hundreds of essays. He also wrote numerous newspaper articles, in venues such as \"Haaretz\" and \"The Nation\". He held a chair at the University of Toronto.\n\nIn August 1975, he married Diana Aidan, a Libyan-born immigrant from Italy who had moved to Israel from Naples in 1967, and was a doctoral student under Professor Yeshayahu Leibowitz. She gave up her professional career to become a homemaker. The couple had three children: Shira (born 1976), Eli (born 1978), and Naama (born 1981).\n\nKimmerling was an outspoken critic of Israeli policies, and spoke out on issues related to the Arab-Israeli conflict. He was dubbed one of Israel's New Historians, and himself insisted that he was a patriotic Zionist dedicated to celebrating the diversities of cultures within Israel, and to the ideals of a secular state. Kimmerling was an atheist, and lamented the inability of Jews and Arabs to \"separate religion from nationality.\" Unlike some critics of Israeli policy, he publicly opposed the proposed boycott of Israeli academics by the Association of University Teachers in the United Kingdom, arguing that it would \"weaken the last public sphere of free thinking and free speech in Israel.\"\n\nKimmerling died at the age of 67 after a long battle with cancer. He was buried in the secular cemetery at Kibbutz Mishmarot, leaving his wife, Diana Aidan, and three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6229368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6229368", "title": "Bolesław Matuszewski", "text": "Bolesław Matuszewski\n\nBolesław Matuszewski (August 19, 1856 Pińczów, – c.1943 or 1944; in French texts Boleslas Matuszewski) - Polish businessman, photographer and cameraman, pioneer of cinematography and documentary film.\n\nHe was born in 1856 in Pińczów the small Congress Poland city, which after Partitions of Poland became part of the Russian Empire. His father Aleksander was translator of French language and his mother was Stanisława Pochowska. Bolesław Matuszewski had also two sisters and younger brother Zygmunt.\n\nHis father taught him French language on advanced level and Matuszewski in 80. of XIX lived in Paris where he studied. In that time he was interested in photography and film. He became employee of the Lumière company and was active photographer and cinematographer, member of photographic society \"LUX\".\n\nIn 1895 he came back to Poland with his younger brother Zygmunt. Both they opened a photographic atelier at Marszałkowska Street 111 in Warsaw. Soon atelier became company \"Lux Sigismond et Comp\". Matuszewski's firm between 1897–1899 cooperated with Polish weekly magazine „Tygodnik Ilustrowany”. The company was active to 1908 and produced many documentary films and photographs.\n\nIn 1897, after assuming the position of photographer to Tsar Nicholas II, he used the Lumières' Cinématographe to record the official visit to St. Petersburg, of the French President Félix Faure. After the visit, Otto von Bismarck accused Faure of not baring his head before the Russian flag on his disembarkation. However, this accusation was shown to be false based on Matuszewski's documentary.\n\nMatuszewski wrote two of the earliest texts on cinema. They are recognized today as the first film manifestos and the first written work to consider the historical and documentary value of film. Matuszewski is also the first filmmaker who appreciated the historical importance of film and proposed the creation of film archives for collecting and safekeeping of visual materials:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2617805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2617805", "title": "Burney Relief", "text": "Burney Relief\n\nThe Burney Relief (also known as the Queen of the Night relief) is a Mesopotamian terracotta plaque in high relief of the Isin-Larsa or Old-Babylonian period, depicting a winged, nude, goddess-like figure with bird's talons, flanked by owls, and perched upon two lions.\n\nThe relief is displayed in the British Museum in London, which has dated it between 1800 and 1750 BCE. It originates from southern Mesopotamia, but the exact find-site is unknown. Apart from its distinctive iconography, the piece is noted for its high relief and relatively large size, which suggest that it was used as a cult relief, making it a very rare survival from the period. However, whether it represents Lilitu, Inanna/Ishtar, or Ereshkigal is under debate. The authenticity of the object has been questioned from its first appearance in the 1930s, but opinion has generally moved in its favour over the subsequent decades.\n\nInitially in the possession of a Syrian dealer, who may have acquired the plaque in southern Iraq in 1924, the relief was deposited at the British Museum in London and analysed by Dr. H.J. Plenderleith in 1933. However, the Museum declined to purchase it in 1935, whereupon the plaque passed to the London antique dealer Sidney Burney; it subsequently became known as the \"Burney Relief\". The relief was first brought to public attention with a full-page reproduction in \"The Illustrated London News\", in 1936. From Burney, it passed to the collection of Norman Colville, after whose death it was acquired at auction by the Japanese collector Goro Sakamoto. British authorities, however, denied him an export licence. The piece was loaned to the British Museum for display between 1980 and 1991, and in 2003 the relief was purchased by the Museum for the sum of £1,500,000 as part of its 250th anniversary celebrations. The Museum also renamed the plaque the \"Queen of the Night Relief\". Since then, the object has toured museums around Britain.\n\nUnfortunately, its original provenance remains unknown. The relief was not archaeologically excavated, and thus we have no further information where it came from, or in which context it was discovered. An interpretation of the relief thus relies on stylistic comparisons with other objects for which the date and place of origin have been established, on an analysis of the iconography, and on the interpretation of textual sources from Mesopotamian mythology and religion.\n\nDetailed descriptions were published by Henri Frankfort (1936), by Pauline Albenda (2005), and in a monograph by Dominique Collon, former curator at the British Museum, where the plaque is now housed. The composition as a whole is unique among works of art from Mesopotamia, even though many elements have interesting counterparts in other images from that time.\n\nThe relief is a terracotta (fired clay) plaque, large, thick, with the head of the figure projecting from the surface. To manufacture the relief, clay with small calcareous inclusions was mixed with chaff; visible folds and fissures suggest the material was quite stiff when being worked. The British Museum's Department of Scientific Research reports, \"it would seem likely that the whole plaque was moulded\" with subsequent modelling of some details and addition of others, such as the rod-and-ring symbols, the tresses of hair and the eyes of the owls. The relief was then burnished and polished, and further details were incised with a pointed tool. Firing burned out the chaff, leaving characteristic voids and the pitted surface we see now; Curtis and Collon believe the surface would have appeared smoothed by ochre paint in antiquity.\n\nIn its dimensions, the unique plaque is larger than the mass-produced terracotta plaques – popular art or devotional items – of which many were excavated in house ruins of the Isin-Larsa and Old Babylonian periods.\n\nOverall, the relief is in excellent condition. It was originally received in three pieces and some fragments by the British Museum; after repair, some cracks are still apparent, in particular a triangular piece missing on the right edge, but the main features of the deity and the animals are intact. The figure's face has damage to its left side, the left side of the nose and the neck region. The headdress has some damage to its front and right hand side, but the overall shape can be inferred from symmetry. Half of the necklace is missing and the symbol of the figure held in her right hand; the owls' beaks are lost and a piece of a lion's tail. A comparison of images from 1936 and 2005 shows that some modern damage has been sustained as well: the right hand side of the crown has now lost its top tier, and at the lower left corner a piece of the mountain patterning has chipped off and the owl has lost its right-side toes. However, in all major aspects, the relief has survived intact for more than 3,500 years.\nTraces of red pigment still remain on the figure's body that was originally painted red overall. The feathers of her wings and the owls' feathers were also colored red, alternating with black and white. By Raman spectroscopy the red pigment is identified as red ochre, the black pigment, amorphous carbon (\"lamp black\") and the white pigment gypsum. Black pigment is also found on the background of the plaque, the hair and eyebrows, and on the lions' manes. The pubic triangle and the areola appear accentuated with red pigment but were not separately painted black. The lions' bodies were painted white. The British Museum curators assume that the horns of the headdress and part of the necklace were originally colored yellow, just as they are on a very similar clay figure from Ur. They surmise that the bracelets and rod-and-ring symbols might also have been painted yellow. However, no traces of yellow pigment now remain on the relief.\n\nThe nude female figure is realistically sculpted in high-relief. Her eyes, beneath distinct, joined eyebrows, are hollow, presumably to accept some inlaying material – a feature common in stone, alabaster, and bronze sculptures of the time, but not seen in other Mesopotamian clay sculptures. Her full lips are slightly upturned at the corners. She is adorned with a four-tiered headdress of horns, topped by a disk. Her head is framed by two braids of hair, with the bulk of her hair in a bun in the back and two wedge-shaped braids extending onto her breasts.\n\nThe stylized treatment of her hair could represent a ceremonial wig. She wears a single broad necklace, composed of squares that are structured with horizontal and vertical lines, possibly depicting beads, four to each square. This necklace is virtually identical to the necklace of the god found at Ur, except that the latter's necklace has three lines to a square. Around both wrists she wears bracelets which appear composed of three rings. Both hands are symmetrically lifted up, palms turned towards the viewer and detailed with visible life-, head- and heart lines, holding two rod-and-ring symbols of which only the one in the left hand is well preserved. Two wings with clearly defined, stylized feathers in three registers extend down from above her shoulders. The feathers in the top register are shown as overlapping scales (coverts), the lower two registers have long, staggered flight feathers that appear drawn with a ruler and end in a convex trailing edge. The feathers have smooth surfaces; no barbs were drawn. The wings are similar but not entirely symmetrical, differing both in the number of the flight feathers and in the details of the coloring scheme.\n\nHer wings are spread to a triangular shape but not fully extended. The breasts are full and high, but without separately modelled nipples. Her body has been sculpted with attention to naturalistic detail: the deep navel, structured abdomen, \"softly modeled pubic area\" the recurve of the outline of the hips beneath the iliac crest, and the bony structure of the legs with distinct knee caps all suggest \"an artistic skill that is almost certainly derived from observed study\". A spur-like protrusion, fold, or tuft extends from her calves just below the knee, which Collon interprets as dewclaws. Below the shin, the figure's legs change into those of a bird. The bird-feet are detailed, with three long, well-separated toes of approximately equal length. Lines have been scratched into the surface of the ankle and toes to depict the scutes, and all visible toes have prominent talons. Her toes are extended down, without perspective foreshortening; they do not appear to rest upon a ground line and thus give the figure an impression of being dissociated from the background, as if hovering.\n\nThe two lions have a male mane, patterned with dense, short lines; the manes continue beneath the body. Distinctly patterned tufts of hair grow from the lion's ears and on their shoulders, emanating from a central disk-shaped whorl. They lie prone; their heads are sculpted with attention to detail, but with a degree of artistic liberty in their form, e.g., regarding their rounded shapes. Both lions look towards the viewer, and both have their mouths closed.\n\nThe owls shown are recognizable, but not sculpted naturalistically: the shape of the beak, the length of the legs, and details of plumage deviate from those of the owls that are indigenous to the region. Their plumage is colored like the deity's wings in red, black and white; it is bilaterally similar but not perfectly symmetrical. Both owls have one more feather on the right-hand side of their plumage than on the left-hand side. The legs, feet and talons are red.\n\nThe group is placed on a pattern of scales, painted black. This is the way mountain ranges were commonly symbolized in Mesopotamian art.\n\nStylistic comparisons place the relief at the earliest into the Isin–Larsa period, or slightly later, to the beginning of the Old Babylonian period. Frankfort especially notes the stylistic similarity with the sculpted head of a male deity found at Ur, which Collon finds to be \"so close to the Queen of the Night in quality, workmanship and iconographical details, that it could well have come from the same workshop.\" Therefore, Ur is one possible city of origin for the relief, but not the only one: Edith Porada points out the virtual identity in style that the lion's tufts of hair have with the same detail seen on two fragments of clay plaques excavated at Nippur. And Agnès Spycket reported on a similar necklace on a fragment found in Isin.\n\nA creation date at the beginning of the second millennium BCE places the relief into a region and time in which the political situation was unsteady, marked by the waxing and waning influence of the city states of Isin and Larsa, an invasion by the Elamites, and finally the conquest by Hammurabi in the unification in the Babylonian empire in 1762 BCE.\n\n300 to 500 years earlier, the population for the whole of Mesopotamia was at its all-time high of about 300,000. Elamite invaders then toppled the third Dynasty of Ur and the population declined to about 200,000; it had stabilized at that number at the time the relief was made. Cities like Nippur and Isin would have had on the order of 20,000 inhabitants and Larsa maybe 40,000; Hammurabi's Babylon grew to 60,000 by 1700 BCE. A well-developed infrastructure and complex division of labour is required to sustain cities of that size. The fabrication of religious imagery might have been done by specialized artisans: large numbers of smaller, devotional plaques have been excavated that were fabricated in molds.\n\nEven though the fertile crescent civilizations are considered the oldest in history, at the time the Burney Relief was made other late bronze age civilizations were equally in full bloom. Travel and cultural exchange were not commonplace, but nevertheless possible. To the east, Elam with its capital Susa was in frequent military conflict with Isin, Larsa and later Babylon. Even further, the Indus Valley Civilization was already past its peak, and in China, the Erlitou culture blossomed. To the southwest, Egypt was ruled by the 12th dynasty; further to the west the Minoan civilization, centred on Crete with the Old Palace in Knossos, dominated the Mediterranean. To the north of Mesopotamia, the Anatolian Hittites were establishing their Old Kingdom over the Hattians; they brought an end to Babylon's empire with the sack of the city in 1531 BCE. Indeed, Collon mentions this raid as possibly being the reason for the damage to the right-hand side of the relief.\n\nThe size of the plaque suggests it would have belonged in a shrine, possibly as an object of worship; it was probably set into a mud-brick wall. Such a shrine might have been a dedicated space in a large private home or other house, but not the main focus of worship in one of the cities' temples, which would have contained representations of gods sculpted in the round. Mesopotamian temples at the time had a rectangular cella often with niches to both sides. According to Thorkild Jacobsen, that shrine could have been located inside a brothel (see below).\n\nCompared with how important religious practice was in Mesopotamia, and compared to the number of temples that existed, very few cult figures at all have been preserved. This is certainly not due to a lack of artistic skill: the \"Ram in a Thicket\" (see image below) shows how elaborate such sculptures could have been, even 600 to 800 years earlier. It is also not due to a lack of interest in religious sculpture: deities and myths are ubiquitous on cylinder seals and the few steles, kudurrus, and reliefs that have been preserved. Rather, it seems plausible that the main figures of worship in temples and shrines were made of materials so valuable they could not escape looting during the many shifts of power that the region saw. The Burney Relief is comparatively plain, and so survived. In fact, the relief is one of only two existing large, figurative representations from the Old Babylonian period. The other one is the top part of the Code of Hammurabi, which was actually discovered in Elamite Susa, where it had been brought as booty (see image).\n\nA static, frontal image is typical of religious images intended for worship. Symmetric compositions are common in Mesopotamian art when the context is not narrative. Many examples have been found on cylinder seals. Three-part arrangements of a god and two other figures are common, but five-part arrangements exist as well. In this respect, the relief follows established conventions. In terms of representation, the deity is sculpted with a naturalistic but \"modest\" nudity, reminiscent of Egyptian goddess sculptures, which are sculpted with a well-defined navel and pubic region but no details; there, the lower hemline of a dress indicates that some covering is intended, even if it does not conceal. In a typical statue of the genre, Pharaoh Menkaura and two goddesses, Hathor and Bat are shown in human form and sculpted naturalistically, just as in the Burney Relief; in fact, Hathor has been given the features of Queen Khamerernebty II (see image and article). Depicting an anthropomorphic god as a naturalistic human is an innovative artistic idea that may well have diffused from Egypt to Mesopotamia, just like a number of concepts of religious rites, architecture, the \"banquet plaques\", and other artistic innovations previously. In this respect, the Burney Relief shows a clear departure from the schematic style of the worshiping men and women that were found in temples from periods about 500 years earlier (see image). It is also distinct from the next major style in the region: Assyrian art, with its rigid, detailed representations, mostly of scenes of war and hunting (see image).\n\nThe extraordinary survival of the figure type, though interpretations and cult context shifted over the intervening centuries, is expressed by the cast terracotta funerary figure of the 1st century BCE, from Myrina on the coast of Mysia in Asia Minor, where it was excavated by the French School at Athens, 1883; the terracotta is conserved in the Musée du Louvre (\"illustrated left\").\n\nCompared to visual artworks from the same time, the relief fits quite well with its style of representation and its rich iconography. The images below show earlier, contemporary, and somewhat later examples of woman and goddess depictions.\n\nMesopotamian religion recognizes literally thousands of deities, and distinct iconographies have been identified for about a dozen. Less frequently, gods are identified by a written label or dedication; such labels would only have been intended for the literate elites. In creating a religious object, the sculptor was not free to create novel images: the representation of deities, their attributes and context were as much part of the religion as the rituals and the mythology. Indeed, innovation and deviation from an accepted canon could be considered a cultic offense. The large degree of similarity that is found in plaques and seals suggests that detailed iconographies could have been based on famous cult statues; they established the visual tradition for such derivative works but have now been lost. It appears, though, that the Burney Relief was the product of such a tradition, not its source, since its composition is unique.\n\nThe frontal presentation of the deity is appropriate for a plaque of worship, since it is not just a \"pictorial reference to a god\" but \"a symbol of his presence\". Since the relief is the only existing plaque intended for worship, we do not know whether this is generally true. But this particular depiction of a goddess represents a specific motif: a nude goddess with wings and bird's feet. Similar images have been found on a number of plaques, on a vase from Larsa, and on at least one cylinder seal; they are all from approximately the same time period. In all instances but one, the frontal view, nudity, wings, and the horned crown are features that occur together; thus, these images are iconographically linked in their representation of a particular goddess. Moreover, examples of this motif are the only existing examples of a nude god or goddess; all other representations of gods are clothed. The bird's feet have not always been well preserved, but there are no counter-examples of a nude, winged goddess with human feet.\n\nThe horned crown – usually four-tiered– is the most general symbol of a deity in Mesopotamian art. Male and female gods alike wear it. In some instances, \"lesser\" gods wear crowns with only one pair of horns, but the number of horns is not generally a symbol of \"rank\" or importance. The form we see here is a style popular in Neo-Sumerian times and later; earlier representations show horns projecting out from a conical headpiece.\n\nWinged gods, other mythological creatures, and birds are frequently depicted on cylinder seals and steles from the 3rd millennium all the way to the Assyrians. Both two-winged and four-winged figures are known and the wings are most often extended to the side. Spread wings are part of one type of representation for Ishtar. However, the specific depiction of the hanging wings of the nude goddess may have evolved from what was originally a cape.\n\nThis symbol may depict the measuring tools of a builder or architect or a token representation of these tools. It is frequently depicted on cylinder seals and steles, where it is always held by a god – usually either Shamash, Ishtar, and in later Babylonian images also Marduk– and often extended to a king.\n\nLions are chiefly associated with Ishtar or with the male gods Shamash or Ningirsu. In Mesopotamian art, lions are nearly always depicted with open jaws. H. Frankfort suggests that The Burney Relief shows a modification of the normal canon that is due to the fact that the lions are turned towards the worshipper: the lions might appear inappropriately threatening if their mouths were open.\n\nNo other examples of owls in an iconographic context exist in Mesopotamian art, nor are there textual references that directly associate owls with a particular god or goddess.\n\nA god standing on or seated on a pattern of scales is a typical scenery for the depiction of a theophany. It is associated with gods who have some connection with mountains but not restricted to any one deity in particular.\n\nThe figure has initially been identified as a depiction of Ishtar (Inanna) but almost immediately other arguments have been put forward:\n\nThe identification of the relief as depicting \"Lilith\" has become a staple of popular writing on that subject. Raphael Patai (1990) believes the relief to be the only extant depiction of a Sumerian female demon called \"lilitu\" and thus to define \"lilitu's\" iconography. Citations regarding this assertion lead back to Henri Frankfort (1936). Frankfort himself based his interpretation of the deity as the demon Lilith on the presence of wings, the birds' feet and the representation of owls. He cites the Babylonian Epic of Gilgamesh as a source that such \"creatures are inhabitants of the land of the dead\". In that text Enkidu's appearance is partially changed to that of a feathered being, and he is led to the nether world where creatures dwell that are \"birdlike, wearing a feather garment\". This passage reflects the Sumerians' belief in the nether world, and Frankfort cites evidence that Nergal, the ruler of the underworld, is depicted with bird's feet and wrapped in a feathered gown.\n\nHowever Frankfort did not himself make the identification of the figure with Lilith; rather he cites Emil Kraeling (1937) instead. Kraeling believes that the figure \"is a superhuman being of a lower order\"; he does not explain exactly why. He then goes on to state \"Wings [...] regularly suggest a demon associated with the wind\" and \"owls may well indicate the nocturnal habits of this female demon\". He excludes Lamashtu and Pazuzu as candidate demons and states: \"Perhaps we have here a third representation of a demon. If so, it must be Lilîtu [...] the demon of an evil wind\", named \"ki-sikil-lil-la\" (literally \"wind-maiden\" or \"phantom-maiden\", not \"beautiful maiden\", as Kraeling asserts (see below)). This \"ki-sikil-lil\" is an antagonist of Inanna (Ishtar) in a brief episode of the epic of Gilgamesh, which is cited by both Kraeling and Frankfort as further evidence for the identification as Lilith, though this appendix too is now disputed. In this episode, Inanna's holy Huluppu tree is invaded by malevolent spirits. Frankfort quotes a preliminary translation by Gadd (1933): \"in the midst Lilith had built a house, the shrieking maid, the joyful, the bright queen of Heaven\". However modern translations have instead: \"In its trunk, the phantom maid built herself a dwelling, the maid who laughs with a joyful heart. But holy Inanna cried.\" The earlier translation implies an association of the demon Lilith with a shrieking owl and at the same time asserts her god-like nature; the modern translation supports neither of these attributes. In fact, Cyril J. Gadd (1933), the first translator, writes: \"\"ardat lili\" (\"kisikil-lil\") is never associated with owls in Babylonian mythology\" and \"the Jewish traditions concerning Lilith in this form seem to be late and of no great authority\". This single line of evidence being taken as virtual proof of the identification of the Burney Relief with \"Lilith\" may have been motivated by later associations of \"Lilith\" in later Jewish sources.\n\nThe association of Lilith with owls in later Jewish literature such as the \"Songs of the Sage\" (1st century BCE) and Babylonian Talmud (5th century CE) is derived from a reference to a \"liliyth\" among a list of wilderness birds and animals in Isaiah (7th century BCE), though some scholars, such as Blair (2009) consider the pre-Talmudic Isaiah reference to be non-supernatural, and this is reflected in some modern Bible translations:\nToday, the identification of the Burney Relief with Lilith is questioned, and the figure is now generally identified as the goddess of love and war.\n\n50 years later, Thorkild Jacobsen substantially revised this interpretation and identified the figure as Inanna (Akkadian: Ishtar) in an analysis that is primarily based on textual evidence. According to Jacobsen:\n\n\nIn contrast, the British Museum does acknowledge the possibility that the relief depicts either Lilith or Ishtar, but prefers a third identification: Ishtar's antagonist and sister Ereshkigal, the goddess of the underworld. This interpretation is based on the fact that the wings are not outspread and that the background of the relief was originally painted black. If this were the correct identification, it would make the relief (and by implication the smaller plaques of nude, winged goddesses) the only known figurative representations of Ereshkigal. Edith Porada, the first to propose this identification, associates hanging wings with demons and then states: \"If the suggested provenience of the Burney Relief at Nippur proves to be correct, the imposing demonic figure depicted on it may have to be identified with the female ruler of the dead or with some other major figure of the Old Babylonian pantheon which was occasionally associated with death.\" No further supporting evidence was given by Porada, but another analysis published in 2002 comes to the same conclusion. E. von der Osten-Sacken describes evidence for a weakly developed but nevertheless existing cult for Ereshkigal; she cites aspects of similarity between the goddesses Ishtar and Ereshkigal from textual sources – for example they are called \"sisters\" in the myth of \"Inanna's descent into the nether world\" – and she finally explains the unique doubled rod-and-ring symbol in the following way: \"Ereshkigal would be shown here at the peak of her power, when she had taken the divine symbols from her sister and perhaps also her identifying lions\".\n\nThe 1936 \"London Illustrated News\" feature had \"no doubt of the authenticity\" of the object which had \"been subjected to exhaustive chemical examination\" and showed traces of bitumen \"dried out in a way which is only possible in the course of many centuries\". But stylistic doubts were published only a few months later by D. Opitz who noted the \"absolutely unique\" nature of the owls with no comparables in all of Babylonian figurative artefacts. In a back-to-back article, E. Douglas Van Buren examined examples of Sumerian art, which had been excavated and provenanced and she presented examples: Ishtar with two lions, the Louvre plaque (AO 6501) of a nude, bird-footed goddess standing on two Ibexes and similar plaques, and even a small haematite owl, although the owl is an isolated piece and not in an iconographical context.\n\nA year later Frankfort (1937) acknowledged Van Buren's examples, added some of his own and concluded \"that the relief is genuine\". Opitz (1937) concurred with this opinion, but reasserted that the iconography is not consistent with other examples, especially regarding the rod-and-ring symbol. These symbols were the focus of a communication by Pauline Albenda (1970) who again questioned the relief's authenticity. Subsequently the British Museum performed thermoluminescence dating which was consistent with the relief being fired in antiquity; but the method is imprecise when samples of the surrounding soil are not available for estimation of background radiation levels. A rebuttal to Albenda by Curtis and Collon (1996) published the scientific analysis; the British Museum was sufficiently convinced of the relief to purchase it in 2003. The discourse continued however: in her extensive reanalysis of stylistic features, Albenda once again called the relief \"a pastiche of artistic features\" and \"continue[d] to be unconvinced of its antiquity\".\n\nHer arguments were rebutted in a rejoinder by Collon (2007), noting in particular that the whole relief was created in one unit, i.e. there is no possibility that a modern figure or parts of one might have been added to an antique background; she also reviewed the iconographic links to provenanced pieces. In concluding Collon states: \"[Edith Porada] believed that, with time, a forgery would look worse and worse, whereas a genuine object would grow better and better. [...] Over the years [the Queen of the Night] has indeed grown better and better, and more and more interesting. For me she is a real work of art of the Old Babylonian period.\"\n\nIn 2008/9 the relief was included in exhibitions on Babylon at the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, the Louvre in Paris, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17617486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17617486", "title": "Causes of sexual violence", "text": "Causes of sexual violence\n\nCauses of sexual violence are debated and explanations of the cause include military conquest, socioeconomics, anger, power, sadism, sexual pleasure, psychopathy, ethical standards, laws, attitudes toward the victims and evolutionary pressures.\n\nClinical psychologist Nicholas Groth has described several different types of rape.\nA detailed conceptual analysis shows that objectification might underlie denial of agency and personhood that leads to rape.\n\nThe goal of this rapist is to humiliate, debase and hurt their victim; they express their contempt for their victim through physical violence and profane language. For these rapists, sex is a weapon to defile and degrade the victim, rape constitutes the ultimate expression of their anger. This rapist considers rape the ultimate offense they can commit against the victim.\n\nAnger rape is characterized by physical brutality, much more physical force is used during the assault than would be necessary if the intent were simply to overpower the victim and achieve penetration. This type of offender attacks their victim by grabbing, striking and knocking the victim to the ground, beating them, tearing their clothes, and raping them.\n\nThe experience for the offender is one that is of conscious anger and rage.\n\nFor these rapists, rape becomes a way to compensate for their underlying feelings of inadequacy and feeds their issues of mastery, control, dominance, strength, intimidation, authority and capability. The intent of the power rapist is to assert their competency. The power rapist relies upon verbal threats, intimidation with a weapon, and only uses the amount of force necessary to subdue the victim.\n\nThe power rapist tends to have fantasies about sexual conquests and rape. They may believe that even though the victim initially resists them, that once they overpower their victim, the victim will eventually enjoy the rape. The rapist believes that the victim enjoyed what was done to them, and they may even ask the victim to meet them for a date later.\n\nBecause this is only a fantasy, the rapist does not feel reassured for long by either their own performance or the victim's response. The rapist feels that they must find another victim, convinced that this victim will be \"the right one\".\n\nHence, their offenses may become repetitive and compulsive. They may commit a series of rapes over a short period of time.\n\nFor these rapists, they have a sexual association with anger and power so that aggression and the infliction of pain itself is eroticized. For this rapist, sexual excitement is associated with the inflicting of pain upon their victim. The offender finds the intentional maltreatment of their victim intensely gratifying and takes pleasure in the victim's torment, pain, anguish, distress, helplessness, and suffering; they find the victim's struggling with them to be an erotic experience.\n\nSadistic rape usually involves extensive, prolonged torture and restraint. Sometimes it can take on ritualistic or other bizarre qualities. The rapist may use some type of instrument or foreign object to penetrate their victim. Sexual areas of the victim's body become a specific focus of injury or abuse.\n\nThe sadistic rapist's assaults are deliberate, calculated, and preplanned. They will often wear a disguise or will blindfold their victims. Prostitutes or other people whom they perceive to be \"promiscuous\" are often the sadistic rapist's targets. The victims of a sadistic rapist may not survive the attack. For some offenders, the ultimate satisfaction is gained from murdering the victim.\n\nSome forms of sexual violence, such as gang rape, are predominantly committed by young men. Sexual aggression is often a defining characteristic of manhood in the group and is significantly related to the wish to be held in high esteem. Sexually aggressive behavior among young men has been linked with gang membership and having delinquent peers. Research also suggests that men with sexually aggressive peers are also much more likely to report coercive or enforced intercourse outside the gang context than men lacking sexually aggressive peers. Gang rape is often viewed by the men involved, and sometimes by others too, as legitimate, in that it is seen to discourage or punish perceived immoral behavior among women, such as wearing short skirts or frequenting bars.\n\nFor this reason, it may not be equated by the perpetrators with the idea of a crime. In several areas in Papua New Guinea, women can be punished by public gang rape, often sanctioned by elders.\n\nIn 1994, Richard Felson coauthored the controversial book \"Aggression and Coercive Actions: A Social-Interactionist Perspective\" with James Tedeschi, a book which argues that sexual fulfillment is the motive of rapists, rather than the aggressive desire to dominate the victim. Felson believes that rape is an aggressive form of sexual coercion and the goal of rape is sexual satisfaction rather than power. Meta-analyses indicate that convicted rapists demonstrate greater sexual arousal to scenes of sexual coercion involving force than do non-rapists.\nIn one study, male rapists evaluated with penile plethysmography demonstrated more arousal to forced sex and less discrimination between forced and consensual sex than non-rapist control subjects, though both groups responded more strongly to consensual sex scenarios.\n\nData on sexually violent individuals show that most direct their acts at individuals whom they already know.\n\nDrug-facilitated sexual assault (DFSA), also known as predator rape, is a sexual assault carried out after the victim has become incapacitated due to having consumed alcoholic beverages or other drugs. Alcohol has been shown to play a disinhibiting role in certain types of sexual assault, as have some other drugs, notably cocaine. Alcohol has a psychopharmacological effect of reducing inhibitions, clouding judgements and impairing the ability to interpret cues. The biological links between alcohol and violence are, however, complex. Research on the social anthropology of alcohol consumption suggests that connections between violence, drinking and drunkenness are socially learnt rather than universal. Some researchers have noted that alcohol may act as a cultural break time, providing the opportunity for antisocial behavior. Thus people are more likely to act violently when drunk because they do not consider that they will be held accountable for their behavior. Some forms of group sexual violence are also associated with drinking. In these settings, consuming alcohol is an act of group bonding, where inhibitions are collectively reduced and individual judgement ceded in favor of the group.\n\nThere has been considerable research in recent times on the role of cognitive variables among the set of factors that can lead to rape. A detailed conceptual analysis shows that objectification might underlie denial of agency and personhood that leads to rape. Sexually violent men have been shown to be more likely to consider victims responsible for the rape and are less knowledgeable about the impact of rape on victims. Such men may misread cues given out by women in social situations and may lack the inhibitions that act to suppress associations between sex and aggression. They may have coercive sexual fantasies, and overall are more hostile towards women than are men who are not sexually violent. In addition to these factors, sexually violent men are believed to differ from other men in terms of impulsivity and antisocial tendencies. They also tend to have an exaggerated sense of masculinity. Sexual violence is also associated with a preference for impersonal sexual relationships as opposed to emotional bonding, with having many sexual partners and with the inclination to assert personal interests at the expense of others. A further association is with adversarial attitudes on gender, that hold that women are opponents to be challenged and conquered.\n\nThe research on convicted rapists has found several important motivational factors in the sexual aggression of males. Those motivational factors repeatedly implicated are having anger at women and having the need to control or dominate them. Additionally, as reported by several rapists they are finely attracted by the wearings of women.\n\nA study by Marshall \"et al.\" (2001) found that male rapists had less empathy toward women who had been sexually assaulted by an unknown assailant and more hostility toward women than non-sex-offenders and nonoffender males/females.\n\nMeta-analyses indicate that convicted rapists demonstrate greater sexual arousal to scenes of sexual coercion involving force than do non-rapists.\n\nThere is evidence to suggest that sexual violence is also a learned behavior in some adults, particularly as regards child sexual abuse. Studies on sexually abused boys have shown that around one in five continue in later life to molest children themselves. Such experiences may lead to a pattern of behavior where the man regularly justifies being violent, denies doing wrong, and has false and unhealthy notions about sexuality.\n\nChildhood environments that are physically violent, emotionally unsupportive and characterized by competition for scarce resources have been associated with sexual violence. Sexually aggressive behavior in young men, for instance, has been linked to witnessing family violence, and having emotionally distant and uncaring fathers. Men raised in families with strongly patriarchal structures are also more likely to become violent, to rape and use sexual coercion against women, as well as to abuse their intimate partners, than men raised in homes that are more egalitarian.\n\nAnother factor involving social relationships is a family's response that blames women without punishing men, concentrating instead on restoring lost family honor. Such a response creates an environment in which rape can occur with impunity.\n\nWhile families will often try to protect their women from rape and may also put their daughters on contraception to prevent visible signs should it occur, there is rarely much social pressure to control young men or persuade them that coercing sex is wrong. Instead, in some countries, there is frequently support for family members to do whatever is necessary including murder to alleviate the shame associated with a rape or other sexual transgression. In a review of all crimes of honor occurring in Jordan in 1995, researchers found that in over 60% of the cases, the victim died from multiple gunshot wounds mostly at the hands of a brother. In cases where the victim was a single pregnant female, the offender was either acquitted of murder or received a reduced sentence.\n\nFactors operating at a societal level that influence sexual violence include laws and national policies relating to gender equality in general and to sexual violence more specifically, as well as norms relating to the use of violence. While the various factors operate largely at local level, within families, schools, workplaces and communities, there are also influences from the laws and norms working at national and even international level.\n\nLawlessness during wars and civil conflicts can create a culture of impunity towards human rights abuses of civilians. Some irregular armies and militias tacitly endorse looting of civilian areas as a way for troops to supplement their meagre incomes, and promote pillaging and rape of civilians as a reward for victory. In 2008, the United Nations Security Council argued that \"women and girls are particularly targeted by the use of sexual violence, including as a tactic of war to humiliate, dominate, instil fear in, disperse and/or forcibly relocate civilian members of a community or ethnic group.\"\n\nRefugees and internally displaced people who flee their homes during war and major disasters can experience human trafficking for sexual or labour exploitation due to the breakdown of economies and law and order. Speaking at the UN General Assembly in 2010, the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, its Causes and Consequences noted women’s particular vulnerability and increased risk of experiencing violence following disasters. Following the 2010 Haiti earthquake, large numbers of women and girls living in Internally Displaced Persons camps experienced sexual violence. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights recognized the need for state actors to respond to gender-based violence committed by private actors, in response to a petition by Haitian groups and human rights lawyers calling on the Haitian government and international actors to take immediate measures—like increasing lighting, security, and access to medical care—to address sexual violence against women and girls in the IDP camps.\n\nPoverty is linked to both the perpetration of sexual violence and the risk of being a victim of it. Several authors have argued that the relationship between poverty and perpetration of sexual violence is mediated through forms of crisis of masculine identity.\n\nBourgois, writing about life in East Harlem, New York, United States, described how young men felt pressured by models of successful masculinity and family structure passed down from their parents' and grandparents' generations, together with modern-day ideals of manhood that also place an emphasis on material consumption. Trapped in their slums, with little or no available employment, they are unlikely to attain either of these models or expectations of masculine success. In these circumstances, ideals of masculinity are reshaped to emphasize misogyny, substance abuse and participation in crime and often also xenophobia and racism. Gang rape and sexual conquest are normalized, as men turn their aggression against women they can no longer control patriarchally or support economically.\n\nWhile fear of rape is typically associated with being outside the home, the great majority of sexual violence actually occurs in the home of the victim or the abuser. Nonetheless, abduction by a stranger is quite often the prelude to a rape and the opportunities for such an abduction are influenced by the physical environment. The social environment within a community is, however, usually more important than the physical surrounding. How deeply entrenched in a community beliefs in male superiority and male entitlement to sex are will greatly affect the likelihood of sexual violence taking place, as will the general tolerance in the community of sexual assault and the strength of sanctions, if any, against perpetrators. For instance, in some places, rape can even occur in public, with passersby refusing to intervene. Complaints of rape may also be treated leniently by the police, particularly if the assault is committed during a date or by the victim's husband.\n\nWomen in various countries face serious risks if they report rape. These risks include being subjected to violence (including honor killings) by their families, being prosecuted for sex outside marriage, or being forced to marry their rapist. This creates a culture of impunity which allows rape to go unpunished.\n\nSexual violence committed by men is to a large extent rooted in ideologies of male sexual entitlement. These belief systems grant women extremely few legitimate options to refuse sexual advances. Some men thus simply exclude the possibility that their sexual advances towards a woman might be rejected or that a woman has the right to make an autonomous decision about participating in sex. In some cultures women, as well as men, regard marriage as entailing the obligation on women to be sexually available virtually without limit, though sex may be culturally proscribed at certain times, such as after childbirth or during menstruation.\n\nSocietal norms around the use of violence as a means to achieve objectives have been strongly associated with the prevalence of rape. In societies where the ideology of male superiority is strong, emphasizing dominance, physical strength and male honor, rape is more common. Countries with a culture of violence, or where violent conflict is taking place, experience an increase in almost all forms of violence, including sexual violence.\n\nMany of the factors operating at a national level have an international dimension. Global trends, for instance towards free trade, have been accompanied by an increase in the movement around the world of women and girls for labor, including for sex work. Economic structural adjustment programmes, drawn up by international agencies, have accentuated poverty and unemployment in a number of countries, thereby increasing the likelihood of sexual trafficking and sexual violence, something particularly noted in Central America, the Caribbean and parts of Africa.\n\nThe \"feminist theory of male-female rape\" is summarized by Susan Brownmiller's statement: \"rape is nothing more or less than a conscious process of intimidation by which \"all men\" keep \"all women\" in a state of fear\". Some feminists assert that male domination of women in socio-political and economic domains is the ultimate cause of most rapes, and consider male-female rape to be a crime of power that has little or nothing to do with sex itself. However, a 1983 study comparing 14 indicators of male dominance and the incidence of rape in 26 American cities found no correlations, except one where greater male dominance actually decreased the incidence of rape. Social learning theory of rape is similar to the feminist theory and links cultural traditions such as imitation, sex-violence linkages, rape myths (e.g., \"women secretly desire to be raped\"), and desensitization to be the core causes of rape.\n\nRape culture is a term used within women's studies and feminism, describing a culture in which rape and other sexual violence (usually against women) are common and in which prevalent attitudes, norms, practices, and media condone, normalize, excuse, or encourage sexualized violence.\n\nWithin the paradigm, acts of sexism are commonly employed to validate and rationalize normative misogynistic practices; for instance, sexist jokes may be told to foster disrespect for women and an accompanying disregard for their well-being, which ultimately make their rape and abuse seem \"acceptable\". Examples of behaviors said to typify rape culture include victim blaming, trivializing prison rape, and sexual objectification.\n\nRape culture as a concept and social reality was explored in detail in the 1975 film \"Rape Culture\", produced by Margaret Lazarus and Renner Wunderlich for Cambridge Documentary Films.\n\nStudies of college-aged sexually active men and women show they often conceptualize men as sexual initiators and women as sexual gatekeepers.\n\nIt has been argued that sexual assault trials, as well as rape itself may be influenced by cultural narratives of men as sexual instigators. Boys are brought up to be sexually aggressive, dominant and conquering, as a way of affirming their masculinity. Catharine MacKinnon argues that men rape \"for reasons that they share in common even with those who don’t, namely masculinity and their identification with masculine norms and in particular being the people who initiate sex and being the people who socially experience themselves as being affirmed by aggressive initiation of sexual interaction\".\nAccording to Check and Malamuth (1983), men are taught to take the initiative and persist in sexual encounters, while women are supposed to set the limits.\nThis classical sexual script is often popularized through television shows, popular films and pornography, which depict the man making a sexual advance and the woman initially resisting, but then finally positively responding by falling in love with him or experiencing orgasm (Cowen, Lee, Levy, and Snyder, 1988; Malamuth and Check, 1981; Smith, 1976; Waggett, 1989). The implied message is that men should persist beyond a woman's protest and women should say \"no\" even if they desire sex (Muehlenhard and McCoy, 1991). The more traditional the society, the closer the adherence to this sexual script. For this reason, many men do not believe that a woman means \"no\" when she says \"no\", and continue to pressure the woman, and ultimately coerce or force her into sex; consent often becomes confused with submission.\n\nIn many societies, men who do not act in this traditional masculine way are ostracized by their peers and considered effeminate. In studies, young males from Cambodia, Mexico, Peru and South Africa, reported that they have participated in incidents where girls were coerced into sex (such as gang rapes) and that they did so as a way to prove their masculinity to their friends, or under peer pressure and fear that they would be rejected if they didn't participate in the assault.\n\nSome theorists charge that the acceptance of these sexual practices increase sexual violence against women, by reinforcing stereotypical views about women, who are seen as sex objects which can be used and abused by men, and by desensitizing men; this being one of the reasons why some theorists oppose the sex industry. They argue that pornography eroticizes the domination, humiliation, and coercion of women, and reinforces sexual and cultural attitudes that are complicit in rape and sexual harassment. The anti-pornography feminist, Andrea Dworkin, has famously argued this point in her controversial \"\" (1981).\n\nMales who under some circumstances used force may have had greater reproductive success in the ancestral environment than males who did not employ force. Sociobiological theories of rape are theories that explore to what degree, if any, evolutionary adaptations influence the psychology of rapists. Such theories are highly controversial, as traditional theories typically do not consider rape to be a behavioral adaptation. Some object to such theories on ethical, religious, political as well as scientific grounds. Others argue that a correct knowledge of the causes of rape is necessary in order to develop effective preventive measures. There is extensive research on sexual coercion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33648429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33648429", "title": "Civil conflict in the Philippines", "text": "Civil conflict in the Philippines\n\nThe civil conflict in the Philippines consists of a dual insurgency that began in 1969 during the rule of Ferdinand Marcos.\n\n\n\n\nNote:Some casualties from small-scale conflicts are not given.\n"}
{"id": "26177917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26177917", "title": "Colombian Institute of Anthropology and History", "text": "Colombian Institute of Anthropology and History\n\nThe Colombian Institute of Anthropology and History (), , is a scientific and technical government agency ascribed to the Ministry of Culture in charge of researching, producing and disseminating knowledge in the fields of anthropology, archeology and colonial history to protect the archaeological and ethnographic patrimony of Colombia.\n\nThe National Archaeological Service was founded in 1938 in Colombia. In 1941, the National Ethnological Institute was founded by Paul Rivet. President Eduardo Santos Montejo invited Rivet to come from France to establish an academic teaching institute, which would formalize anthropological studies in the country. The institute was to be founded on scientific principals to investigate and analyze the diverse ethnic groups of Colombia. In 1952, the two organizations were merged, to form the Colombian Institute of Anthropology under the Ministry of Education. One year previously, the Colombian Institute of Hispanic Culture had been formed to preserve the Spanish culture of Colombia. In 1999, this organization was merged with the Colombian Institute of Anthropology to form the present entity.\n\n"}
{"id": "48523949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48523949", "title": "Columbus Fitzpatrick", "text": "Columbus Fitzpatrick\n\nColumbus Fitzpatrick (1810 – 8 November 1877) was an Irish-born Australian builder, political activist and amateur historian.\n\nHe was born in Dublin to Bernard Fitzpatrick, later chief bailiff for the Supreme Court of New South Wales, and Catherine Milling. He migrated to New South Wales with his family in 1811, and grew up at Windsor and Parramatta. He was taught by his mother, an active Catholic who founded the St Mary's Cathedral Choir. He was assistant to Philip Conolly and John Joseph Therry, and in 1826 was an apprentice coachbuilder.\n\nHe was granted land at Narara near Gosford in 1830, and in 1838 moved to Goulburn, where he became a builder and occasional undertaker. In 1845 he married Margaret Gilligan, with whom he had six children. He was an advocate on behalf of free selectors, free trade and labour rights, but his candidature for the 1856 colonial election in the seat of Argyle saw him receive zero votes. The local council was dissolved in 1863 and Fizpatrick was appointed overseer of local works, a position he held until 1868. He was an alderman from 1873, and made several unsuccessful runs for the mayoralty. He contributed extensively to the local press, largely on colonial history. His articles were used by Cardinal Patrick Moran in 1895. Fitzpatrick died in 1877, having fallen ill after leading a funeral in poor weather.\n"}
{"id": "24867008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24867008", "title": "Cosmetics in ancient Rome", "text": "Cosmetics in ancient Rome\n\nCosmetics, first used in ancient Rome for ritual purposes, were part of daily life for women, especially prostitutes and the wealthy. Some fashionable cosmetics, such as those imported from China, Germany and Gaul, were so expensive that the Lex Oppia tried to limit their use in 189 BCE. These \"designer brands\" spawned cheap knock-offs that were sold to poorer women. Working-class women could afford the cheaper varieties, but may not have had the time (or slaves) to apply the makeup as the use of makeup was a time-consuming affair because cosmetics needed to be reapplied several times a day due to weather conditions and poor composition.\n\nCosmetics were applied in private, usually in a small room where men did not enter. \"Cosmetae\", female slaves that adorned their mistresses, were especially praised for their skills. They would beautify their mistresses with \"cultus\", the Latin word encompassing makeup, perfume and jewelry.\n\nScent was also an important factor of beauty. Women who smelled good were presumed to be healthy. Due to the stench of many of the ingredients used in cosmetics at the time, women often drenched themselves in copious amounts of perfume.\n\nChristian women tended to avoid cosmetics with the belief that they should praise what God gave them. Some men, especially cross-dressers, did use cosmetics, although it was viewed as effeminate and improper.\n\nAll cosmetic ingredients were also used as medicines to treat various ailments. Lead, although known to be poisonous, was still widely used.\n\nRoman attitudes towards cosmetics evolved with the expansion of the empire. The assortment of cosmetics available increased as trade borders expanded and the resulting influx of wealth granted women additional slaves and time to spend on beauty. Ideas of beauty from conquered peoples, especially the Greeks and Egyptians, greatly influenced the Roman paradigm of beauty. Unlike their eastern trading partners however, the Romans felt that only the \"preservation of beauty\" was acceptable and not \"unnatural embellishment\". Despite exaggerating their makeup to make it appear in the poor lighting of the time, women still wanted to appear natural as a sign of chastity. Artificiality denoted a desire to be seductive, which made men question for whom exactly a woman was trying to appear attractive. This was why men generally viewed the use of cosmetics as deceitful and manipulative. Vestal Virgins did not don makeup because they were supposed to look holy and chaste. Postumia, one of the Vestal Virgins, defied this convention and consequently, was accused of \"incestum\".\n\nOf all the surviving texts mentioning cosmetics (all written by men) Ovid is alone in his approval of their use. The consensus was that women who used cosmetics in excess were immoral and deceptive and were practicing a form of witchcraft. Juvenal wrote that \"a woman buys scents and lotions with adultery in mind\" and mocked the need for cosmetics, believing that they were ineffective. Use of perfumes was further looked down upon because they were thought to mask the smell of sex and alcohol. Seneca advised virtuous women to avoid cosmetics, as he believed their use to be a part of the decline of morality in Rome. Stoics were also against the use of cosmetics, as they were opposed to the usage of all man-made luxuries. Although there are no surviving texts written by women expounding the attitude of women towards cosmetics, their widespread use indicates that women accepted and enjoyed these products.\n\nPure white skin, a demarcation of the leisure class, was the most important feature of Roman beauty. Native Roman women weren’t naturally fair-skinned and spent their time outside with oils on their faces, requiring whitening makeup to fit their model of beauty.\n\nWomen would often prepare their faces with beauty masks prior to applying makeup. One recipe called for the application of sweat from sheep's wool (lanolin) to the face before bedtime, emitting a stench often criticized by men. Other ingredients included juice, seeds, horns, excrement, honey, plants, placenta, marrow, vinegar, bile, animal urine, sulfur, vinegar, eggs, myrrh, incense, frankincense, ground oyster shells, onions with poultry fat, white lead, and barley with vetch. Bathing in asses’ milk was an expensive treatment that worked like a chemical peel and was used by wealthy women such as Cleopatra VII and Poppaea Sabina.\n\nAfter their baths, they would then apply face whitener, such as chalk powder, white marl, crocodile dung and white lead. The Roman recognition that lead was poisonous underscored their point of view on how important white skin was. Other ingredients used in whiteners included beeswax, olive oil, rosewater, saffron, animal fat, tin oxide, starch, rocket (arugula), cucumber, anise, mushrooms, honey, rose leaves, poppies, myrrh, frankincense, almond oil, rosewater, lily root, water parsnip and eggs.\n\nThe Romans disliked wrinkles, freckles, sunspots, skin flakes and blemishes. To soften wrinkles, they used swans’ fat, asses’ milk, gum Arabic and bean-meal. Sores and freckles were treated with the ashes of snails. The Romans pasted soft leather patches of alum directly over blemishes to pretend that they were beauty marks. Criminals and freedmen used these leather patches, which came in both round and crescent shapes, to conceal brand marks.\n\nWith the exception of hair on her head, hair was considered to be unattractive on a Roman woman. Consequently, women removed hair by either shaving, plucking, stripping using a resin paste, or scraping with a pumice stone. Older women faced ridicule for their depilation because it was viewed primarily as preparation for sex.\n\nAlthough Romans esteemed pale faces, a light pink on the cheeks was considered to be attractive, signifying good health. Plutarch wrote that too much rouge made a woman look showy, while Martial mocked women, believing that rouge was in danger of melting in the sun.\nSources of rouge included Tyrian vermillion, rose and poppy petals, fucus, red chalk, alkanet, and crocodile dung. Red ochre, a more expensive blush, was imported from Belgium and ground against a stone into powder. Despite a widespread knowledge that cinnabar and red lead were poisonous, they were both still used extensively. Cheap alternatives included mulberry juice and wine dregs.\n\nThe ideal eyes, from the Roman perspective, were large with long eyelashes. Pliny the Elder wrote that eyelashes fell out from excessive sex and so it was especially important for women to keep their eyelashes long to prove their chastity.\n\nKohl was the main ingredient in eye makeup, and was composed of ashes or soot and antimony, with saffron usually added to improve the smell. Kohl was applied using a rounded stick, made of ivory, glass, bone, or wood, that would be dipped in either oil or water first, before being used to apply the kohl. The use of kohl as makeup came from the east. In addition to kohl, charred rose petals and date stones could be used to darken the eyes.\n\nColored eyeshadow was also applied by women to accentuate their eyes. Green eyeshadow came from malachite, while blue came from azurite.\n\nThe Romans preferred dark eyebrows that almost met in the center. This effect was achieved by darkening their eyebrows with antimony or soot and then extending them inward. Plucking began in the 1st century BCE to tidy their overall look.\n\nAlthough evidence for the usage of lipstick appears in earlier civilizations, no such evidence has materialized to indicate that the Romans ever colored their lips. The only evidence for painting nails comes from a red dye they imported that was produced from an Indian insect. Generally only the wealthy cut their nails, as they used barbers to clip their nails short, following the contemporary practice for good hygiene.\n\nAlthough oral hygiene was nowhere near today’s standards, white teeth were prized by the Romans, and so false teeth, made from bone, ivory and paste, were popular items. Ovid shed light on the way white teeth were viewed in society when he wrote the statement, \"You can do yourself untold damage when you laugh if your teeth are black, too long or irregular.\" The Romans also sweetened their breath with powder and baking soda.\n\nPerfumes were very popular in Ancient Rome. In fact, they were so heavily used that Cicero claimed that, \"The right scent for a woman is none at all.\" They came in liquid, solid and sticky forms and were often created in a maceration process with flowers or herbs and oil. Distillation technology, as well as most of the imported ingredients, originated in the east. The most prominent perfume market in Italy was Seplasia in Capua. Perfumes were rubbed on or poured onto the user and were often believed to be helpful against different ailments, such as fever and indigestion. Different scents were appropriate for different occasions, as well as for men and women. Deodorants made from alum, iris and rose petals were common.\n\nIn addition to personal use, perfumes were used in food and to freshen the household aroma.\n\nMakeup usually came in tablet or cake form, sold at marketplaces. Wealthy women bought expensive makeup that came in elaborate containers made from gold, wood, glass or bone. Kohl came in compartmentalized tubes that could store more than one color of eye makeup. Glassblowing, invented in the 1st century CE in Syria, lowered the price of containers. The most common color for glass was teal. Gladiator sweat and fats of the animals fighting in the arena were sold in souvenir pots outside of the games to improve complexion.\n\nMirrors in Ancient Rome were mostly hand mirrors made from polished metal, or mercury behind glass. Spending too much time in front of a mirror was thought to denote that a woman was weak in character.\n\nCosmetics, and especially their overuse, were commonly associated with prostitutes, both being regarded as immoral and seductive. The Latin word \"lenocinium\" actually meant both \"prostitution\" and \"makeup\". Due to their low income, prostitutes tended to use cheaper cosmetics, which emitted rather foul odors. This, combined with the strong, exotic scents used to cover up the stench, made brothels smell especially rank. As prostitutes aged, with their income dependent on their appearance, they opted for more copious amounts of makeup. Courtesans often received cosmetics and perfumes as gifts or partial payment.\n\nMen are also known to have used cosmetics in Roman times, although it was frowned upon by society. Men seen carrying mirrors were viewed as effeminate, while those using face-whitening makeup were thought to be immoral because they were expected to be tanned from working outside. Two of the more acceptable practices were the light use of certain perfumes and moderate hair removal. A man removing too much hair was viewed as effeminate, while removing too little made him seem unrefined. The Romans found it especially inappropriate for an emperor to be vain, as was apparently the case with the Emperor Otho. The Emperor Elagabalus removed all of his body hair and often donned makeup, which caused the Romans much grief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17315317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17315317", "title": "Cuauhtlatoani", "text": "Cuauhtlatoani\n\nCuāuhtlahtoāni or Cuäuhtlahtoh is a titular office of governorship and political administration, used within certain city-states and provinces among the Aztecs of pre-Columbian central Mexico in the Late Postclassic period. The office of \"cuauhtlatoani\" (a Nahuatl word meaning approximately, \"the one who speaks like eagle\") carried the connotation of \"military ruler\" or \"appointed administrator\". During the rise of the Aztec Empire the title was given by the ruling Mexica-Tenochca to the governors they imposed on conquered city-states in central provinces. \n\nA Tlatoani (\"the one who speaks\") was an independent ruler of an Aztec/Mexica polity (altepetl). Cuauhtlatoani were appointed by a Tlatoani to rule conquered areas or areas whose independence was lost such as the city Tlatelolco following the 1473 CE defeat of its last Tlatoani, Moquihuix, by Tenochtitlan. Tlatelolco was governed by Cuauhtlatoque until the death of Itzquauhtzin in 1520 CE.\n\nThe title is also used in some histories compiled in the early post-conquest era, when referring to the (semi-legendary) leaders of the Mexica (the later Aztecs)during their migrations from the north into the Valley of Mexico, before their founding of Tenochtitlan and the subsequent expansion into empire. The early 17th-century Nahua historian Chimalpahin wrote of a succession of \"cuauhtlatoani\" office holders during this pre-foundational period:\n"}
{"id": "2221235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221235", "title": "Digital artifact", "text": "Digital artifact\n\nDigital artifact in information science, is any undesired or unintended alteration in data introduced in a digital process by an involved technique and/or technology. In anthropology and archeology a digital artifact is an artifact that is of a digital nature or creation. For example, a gif is such an artifact. \n\nDigital artifact can be of any content types including text, audio, video, image, animation or a combination. \n\nIn information science, digital artifacts result from:\n\n"}
{"id": "27043880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27043880", "title": "Elena Postică", "text": "Elena Postică\n\nElena Postică (born September 2, 1954, Lăpuşna) is a historian from the Republic of Moldova.\n\nElena Postică was born on September 2, 1954 in Lăpuşna, Hînceşti. She is a member of the Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Moldova.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51415874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51415874", "title": "Flag of Gascony", "text": "Flag of Gascony\n\nThe flag appeared in the time of pope Clément III to gather the Gascons during the Third crusade (12th century). It contains the St Andrew's cross, the patron saint of Bordeaux and the red color of English kingdom, who reigned over Gascony from 12th to mid-15th century.\n\nAfter the end of the Hundred Years' War, the flag went out of use and was never replaced.\n\nA modern blazon (blue and red with sheaf of wheat and lion) was created in Versailles by the judge of weapons'cabinet (chief of protocol) of French king Louis XIV in 1697-1709 to add symbolically the province to the French royal coat of arms.\n\nThe contemporary return of the historic flag of Gascony is ought to convey identity and values which make of this province a land of \"douceur de vivre\" (sweetness of life): soft climate, authenticity of relationship, conviviality, good wines and art of dining.\n"}
{"id": "43428471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43428471", "title": "Genaro D. Babon Sr.", "text": "Genaro D. Babon Sr.\n\nGenaro Daguman Babon Sr. (September 19, 1950 – June 23, 2014) was a Filipino historian and professor in Samar.\n\nBabon completed his bachelor's degree in History at the Christ the King College, and his Master's in History from the Manuel L. Quezon University. He attended Northwest Samar State University for his Doctorate in Public Management.\n\nBabon taught at the Sta. Margarita High School in the 1970s, and La Milagrosa Academy and Christ the King College in the 1980s. He moved to Northwest Samar State University (NWSSU) in 1986, teaching there until his death. He also held administrative positions such as Director for Extension Services, Director for Student Placement Services and Alumni Affairs, and Coordinator for General Services.\n\nBabon's work included the compilation of researches on histories of communities, barangays, hometowns or sitios, as part of his teaching (which he called \"little history\"). He had a particular interest in the naming and history of specific barangays, and works on this subject are archived in his unpublished collection. He also specialised in the history of Calbayog and Samar.\n\nBabon was married to Carmelita Pido, also a teacher. They have seven children, Jose Ryan, Ma. Generlita, Genaro Jr., Jose Gerwin, Ma. Astute, Jose Don and Jose Raymund. Jose Raymund died early in his teenage years.\n"}
{"id": "21274395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21274395", "title": "George Tindall", "text": "George Tindall\n\nGeorge Brown Tindall (February 26, 1921 – December 2, 2006) was an American historian and author. He was also a past president of the Southern Historical Association. A professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 1958 until his retirement, Tindall was \"one of the nation's pre-eminent historians of the modern South.\"\n\nDuring his career he held a Guggenheim Fellowship and was a Fulbright Scholar, a visiting Member of the Institute for Advanced Study, and a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences.\n\nIn 1969, Tindall's book \"The Emergence of the New South: 1913-1945\" was given the Lillian Smith Book Award.\nSome of his other works include:\n\nTindall grew up in Greenville, S.C., graduated from Furman University there, and then served in the Pacific theater in World War II in the U.S. Army Air Corps. After the war he received his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nHe was married to Blossom McGarrity Tindall for 60 years. He is also survived by his son Bruce Tindall and his daughter Blair Tindall.\n\n"}
{"id": "12875965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12875965", "title": "Gwyn Jones (author)", "text": "Gwyn Jones (author)\n\nGwyn Jones (24 May 1907 – 6 December 1999) was a Welsh novelist and story writer, and a scholar and translator of Nordic literature and history.\n\nGwyn Jones was born on 24 May 1907 in New Tredegar, Monmouthshire, the second child of George Henry Jones (1874–1970), a miner, and his second wife, Lily Florence, née Nethercott (1877–1960), a midwife. He was brought up in nearby Blackwood. He attended Tredegar county school, and studied at University College, Cardiff as an undergraduate and a postgraduate.\n\nAfter six years he was a schoolteacher in Wigan and Manchester, in 1935 he returned to University College, Cardiff as a lecturer. In 1940 was appointed Professor of English of the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, where he taught until his appointment as Professor of English at University College, Cardiff in 1964, a position he held until his retirement in 1975.\n\nIn 1939 Jones registered as a conscientious objector to military service, which temporarily caused him to lose his job. Jones was a socialist, although never a member of the Labour Party, and was sympathetic to the aims of Plaid Cymru. He was an active Christian and attended Minny Street Chapel in Cardiff, a Welsh-language congregational chapel.\n\nJones married twice: in 1928 to Alice Rees (1906/7–1979), and in 1979 to Mair Jones, née Sivell (1923/4–2000), the widow of Thomas Jones, his collaborator on \"The Mabinogion\".\n\nJones' translations include \"Four Icelandic Sagas\" (1935), \"The Vatndalers' Saga\" (1944), \"The Mabinogion\" (1948, in collaboration with Thomas Jones), \"Egil's Saga\" (1960), \"Eirik the Red and Other Icelandic Sagas\" (1961) and \"The Norse Atlantic Saga\" (1964). He also wrote \"A History of the Vikings\" (1968) and \"Kings, Beasts and Heroes\" (1972).\n\nIn addition to his translations, he was an author in the Anglo-Welsh tradition. His novels and story collections include \"Richard Savage\" (1935), \"Times Like These\" (1936), \"The Nine Days' Wonder\" (1937) and \"Garland of Hays\" (1938), \"The Buttercup Field\" (1945), \"The Flowers beneath the Scythe\" (1952), \"Shepherd's Hey\" (1953) and \"The Walk Home\" (1962).\n\nJones also founded \"The Welsh Review\" in 1939, which he edited until 1948; this journal was important for raising discussion of Welsh issues and for attracting submissions from such authors as T. S. Eliot and J. R. R. Tolkien, whose Breton lay, \"The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun\", he published in 1945. He continued to support Welsh literature by chairing both the Welsh Committee of the Arts Council of Great Britain and the first editorial board of \"The Oxford Companion to the Literature of Wales\". In 1977 he edited the \"Oxford Book of Welsh Verse in English\". He also published three sets of lectures on Anglo-Welsh literature: \"The First Forty Years\" (1957), \"Being and Belonging\" (1977), and \"Babel and the Dragon's Tongue\" (1981).\n\nIn 1963 Jones was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Order of the Falcon by the President of Iceland, followed by the Commander's Cross in 1987. He was appointed CBE in the 1965 New Year Honours in recognition of his chairmanship of the Welsh Arts Council. In 2008 a commemorative plaque to Jones was unveiled in the Hugh Owen library of Aberystwyth University.\n\n"}
{"id": "35580469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35580469", "title": "Hassan Poladi", "text": "Hassan Poladi\n\nHassan Poladi (also referred to as Hassan Foladi) was the writer of \"The Hazaras\", a book about Hazara people. Poladi was born in Agil-i-Hussani, Alamdar Road, Quetta, a second Generation Hazara in Quetta. He grew up and got his early education from local schools and colleges, and did his BSc (Honors) from University of Sind. He later got admission to university of Philippines, Manila, and did his MA. After working for provencial govt of Balochistan, he moved to USA on research assistant fellowship. In 1975 he received his master's degree from Cornell University, Ithaca, New york. He was naturalized American Citizen, and lived with his family in Stockton, California. He had traveled extensively throughout Asia, Europe and North America. In addition to his native Hazaragi, he was fluent in English, Urdu and Filipino. His life contribution to the Hazara nation is his book \"The Hazaras\". It is one of the most authenticated book written on Hazaras so far. It has been translated in Persian and Urdu. In 2007, a container carrying consignment of the book in Persian language was stopped at Zareng, And the whole consignment was thrown into Helmend river. The purpose of the complete episode was to deprive the reader a study about the history and culture of Hazaras.\n\nPoladi died on October 9, 1989 due to liver failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "25001395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25001395", "title": "Israel Belkind", "text": "Israel Belkind\n\nIsrael Belkind (; 1861–1929) was a Jewish educator, author, writer, historian and founder of the Bilu movement. A pioneer of the First Aliyah, Belkind founded the \"Biluim\", a group of Jewish idealists aspiring to settle in the Land of Israel with the political purpose to redeem Eretz Yisrael and re-establish the Jewish State on it.\n\nBelkind was born in the region surrounding Minsk in Belarus, then part of the Russian Empire. He received a Hebrew education from his father, who was a leader in the movement which promoted Hebrew education in Russia. Belkind also attended a Russian gymnasium and initially intended to attend university. However, the wave of anti-semitic attacks and pogroms against Jews in southern Russia on 1881 instead led him to become intensively involved in Zionist activities.\n\nBelkind organized the first organized group of Biluim on 21 January 1882, with the aim of promoting settlement in Ottoman Palestine. To this end, he invited a group of fourteen Jewish ex-university students from Kharkov to his home and together they formed the group which was originally called DAVIO, an acronym for the Hebrew words from Exodus, \"Speak unto the children of Israel that they will go forward\". Belkind later changed the name to BILU, an acronym for the words from Isaiah (2:5), \"Beit Yaakov Lechu V'nelcha,\" (\"House of Jacob, come and we will go\"). The group shunned diplomatic or political channels, with their sole goal being to settle in Palestine.\n\nThese first group of Bilu pioneers arrived at Palestine in July, 1882. He worked first in Mikveh Yisrael and Rishon LeTzion, and then moved to Gedera, the first official Bilu community. Belkind, however, was unable to adjust to agricultural labor, and therefore, devoted himself to education. His first teaching post was at a private school in Jaffa, and he then moved to Jerusalem where he taught at the Alliance israélite universelle. In 1904, Israel Belkind established an educational institute in the village of Meir Shfeya, which took in orphans from the Kishinev pogrom. This made it the first youth village in the country. He called it Kiryat Sefer. However, after two years of dispute with the Edmond James de Rothschild's emissaries at the colony, Belkind was prompted to move the children to Ben Shemen. Belkind was the key leader in the Yishuv's protest movement against representatives of Baron Rothschild.\n\nBelkind proposed a name for the agricultural moshava of Rehovot based on Genesis 26:22: \"And he called the name of it \"Rehoboth\"; and he said: 'For now the Lord hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land'.\"\n\nBelkin published several textbooks and wrote for contemporary journals. He was the editor of \"HaMeir,\" a monthly publication on settlement and the Yishuv. He published his memoirs, \"The First Steps of the Jewish Settlement in Palestine\" (1918) in the United States during World War I.\n\nIn 1928 he published a geographical work in Russian, \"The Land of Israel Today\", as well as an anthropological work on the Palestinian Arabs in Hebrew, \"Arabs in Eretz Israel\", a book in which he advances the ideas that the Palestinians are descended from the ancient Hebrews and that the dispersion of Jews after the destruction of the Temple by the Roman emperor Titus is a \"historic error\" that must be corrected, for it dispersed much of the land's Jewish community around the world, while those \"workers of the land that remained attached to their land\" were eventually converted to Christianity and then Islam. He therefore, argued that this historical wrong must be corrected by embracing the Palestinians as their own and proposed the opening of Hebrew schools for Palestinian Arab Muslims to teach them Arabic, Hebrew and universal culture.\n\nIn 1929, Belkind died in Berlin where he had gone to seek medical treatment. His body was brought back to Palestine for burial. He was interred in Rishon LeZion.\n"}
{"id": "12217729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12217729", "title": "Jakob Linckh", "text": "Jakob Linckh\n\nJakob Linckh (1786 or 14 November 1787 – 1841) was a German painter and archaeologist, born in Cannstatt.\n\nIn 1810–11, he accompanied Charles Robert Cockerell, John Foster, Carl Haller von Hallerstein and Otto Magnus von Stackelberg on their expeditions to the temples of Aphaia on Aegina and of Apollo at Bassae. On this trip he also drew a plan of the ancient theatre at Eretria.\n"}
{"id": "35644171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35644171", "title": "Jean Dussaulx", "text": "Jean Dussaulx\n\nJean-Joseph Dussaulx, also known as Jean Dusaulx (28 December 1728, in Chartres – 16 March 1799, in Paris) was a French politician. He was a member of the upper house of parliament – the Council of Ancients – during the French Revolution.\n\nHe was a writer known for his translations of Juvenal and also wrote volumes on history.\n"}
{"id": "34953704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953704", "title": "Jens Christian Berg", "text": "Jens Christian Berg\n\nJens Christian Berg (23 September 1775 – 4 June 1852) was a Norwegian lawyer and historian.\n\nJens Christian Berg was born in Copenhagen to Niels Jensen Berg (1738-1798) and Marie Margrethe Flor (1744-1817).\nAfter childhood in Trondheim, Berg grew up in Christiania (now Oslo) where he attended Oslo Cathedral School.\nHe later studied at the University of Copenhagen. He was employed at the Royal Library and was a teacher in geography at the Copenhagen Cathedral School. In 1803 he took a Danish legal exam, got married and settled at Gulli in Sem, Norway.\n\nIn 1814, he was appointed as a judge at Akershus. At the parliament session of 1814, he represented Jarlsberg (now Vestfold). He was also chairman of the committee which was set up in November 1814 to amend the Constitution of Norway. In 1816 he went to Copenhagen as a commissioner to negotiate the separation of Norway from Denmark. From 1828-35, he was a member of the commission which was preparing new criminal code of law. He also sat on the Christiania city council 1837-46.\n\nHe married two times, first in 1803 with Hedevig Marie Elisabet Wessel (1773-1816), second in 1817 with Juliane Marie Haxthausen (dead 1847).\nHe had a son, Fredrik August Berg (1809-1895). He died in Christiania on 4 June 1852.\nBerg was a made a knight of the Order of the Polar Star in 1816 and was appointed commander of the Order of St. Olav in 1847. \n"}
{"id": "58200202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58200202", "title": "Jews in Bielsko-Biała", "text": "Jews in Bielsko-Biała\n\nJews in Bielsko-Biała (, ), is a Jewish society with its headquarters in Bielsko-Biała, Poland. Nowadays, the area of its activity covers Cieszyn Silesia and western Lesser Poland, including the city of Oświęcim ().\n\nThe city of Bielsko () and the city of Biała () are two separate cities located next to each other. Both towns are separated only with the Biala river, which used to be the border between the Kingdom of Bohemia and the Polish Kingdom (1327-1526), between the Habsburg Monarchy and the Polish Kingdom (1526-1772), between Austrian Silesia and Galicia under Austrian Empire (1772-1918) and between Silesian Voivodeship and Kraków Voivodeship under the Second Polish Republic (1918-1939). The border between the countries and regions also became the conventional line separating the influence of German Liberal Judaism in Silesia from the Orthodox Judaism and Hasidism prevalent in Galicia. The cities were merged in 1951.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Jews appeared in Cieszyn Silesia as passable merchants. They settled permanently in Cieszyn in the 17th century. In the middle of 18th c. first Jews settled in Bielsko and they were subject to Jewish community in Cieszyn for a century. The followers of Judaism settled in the town due to its economic attractiveness. The proximity of the border with the Kingdom of Poland, with Prussia and with Upper Hungary was an advantage for the trade and in 1772, when southern Lesser Poland along with Lipnik-Biala was attached to Austria, the town’s economy started to flourish. Additionally, the patent of tolerance issued by Joseph II on 15 December 1781 increased the scope of craft-related activities available to the Jews and allowed them to set up textile manufactures. At the same time, it imposed an obligation on the Jews to learn and use German language. Another edict from 1787 obliged the Jews to assume German names and surnames. As a result of these acts, local Jews started adopting German culture and supporting the German liberal party, which created favourable conditions for the process of assimilation with the other inhabitants of the town and later on – for the adoption of the Haskalah ideals. Until 1849 the burials of the Jews in Bielsko were held at the Jewish cemetery in Cieszyn. Jewish community in Bielsko became an autonomous legal entity on 27 December 1865. It adopted the name \"Israelitische Kultusgemeinde in Bielitz\". After the break-up of Austro-hungarian empire, the authorities of Silesian Voivodeship acknowledged the community’s Polish statute and approved its new name: \"Żydowska Gmina Wyznaniowa w Bielsku\"(Jewish Community in Bielsko). This name was used until the outbreak of the Second World War in September 1939 when the city was incorporated into the Nazi Germany, and the Jewish Community name was changed to \"Ältestenrat der jüdischen Gemeinde in Bielitz\" (Elder Council of Jewish Community in Bielsko). In February 1945, immediately after the offensive of soviet army, a \"Komitet Żydowski w Bielsku\" (Committee of Jews in Bielsko) was formed, and then renamed to Congregation of the Jewish Faith (Polish: Kongregacja Wyznania Mojżeszowego) in 1946. In 1995 it adopted its pre-war name: \"Gmina Wyznaniowa Żydowska w Bielsku-Białej\" (Jewish Community in Bielsko-Biała).\n\nThe Jewish community of Bielsko was very important and pioneered many activities on the borderline of between the world of Polish orthodox Jews and the German assimilated Reformed Jews. The first philanthropic association “B'nai B'rith” in Austro-Hungarian Empire was founded in Bielsko in 1889. The Jewish enlightenment (Haskalah) was developing rapidly here, few rabbis from Bielsko became professors at progressive seminaries in Wrocław and Berlin. Prof. Michael Berkowicz who lived in Bielsko was a friend of Theodor Herzl, and wrote a first translation to Hebrew of his Zionist manifesto “Der Judenstaat”.\n\nThe percentage of Jews in the total population of the town remain close to 20%. In 1921 there were 3982 Jews, in 1928 - 4520, in 1930 - 5200, and in 1939 their number exceeded 5 thousand.\n\nThe Jewish cemetery in Bielsko is the only one in Poland where Muslims (soldiers from World War I) and Christians (from mixed marriages) are buried together with Jews.\n\nThe most important progressive and official rabbis were: Hirsch Heinrich Morgenstern, Dr. Lazar Frankfurter (1865-1874), Dr. Wolf Lesser (1875-1882), Dr. Adolf Kurrein (1882-1888), Dr. Saul Horowitz (1888-1896), Dr. Markus Steiner (1896-1939). The most important orthodox rabbis were: Jecheskiel Paneth, Menachem Mendel Stern, Moshe Stern, Izak Stern.\n\nAt the beginning, Biała was a hamlet next to the nearby village of Lipnik, whose inhabitants were mainly craftsmen or cloth manufacturers. Jews resided in Biala at the end of the 17th century. At that time, Jews used to have four houses and they had a colony which was related to the mansion of the manor of the district governors. They leased a tavern, a brewery and like local craftsmen, they developed their textile business. In 18th century in Biała and Lipnik there were more than 100 Jews, which constituted about 20% of the total population. In the records of the customs chamber in Biala from 1763 there are numerous names of the Jews who crossed the border between Kraków Province and Austrian Silesia. In 1765 Biała was inhabited by 250-350 Jews, which constituted 20% of the total population. In 1870 the number of Jews was estimated as 270 people. In 1849, just like in the nearby Bielsko, also in Biała a new Jewish cemetery was set up (nowadays Wyzwolenia street). In the 1860s many new Jewish immigrants came to Biala, mainly from Upper Hungary (Slovakia) and Upper Silesia. In 1870 Jewish community was as many as 500 members. In 1865 the local Jews decided to detach from the community in Oświęcim and submitted a draft statute to the authorities. They were mostly progressive Jews, drawing on the tradition of the German Haskalah. They participated in the social and political life of the town, considering themselves its rightful citizens.\n\nThe official religious community was made up of Jews with a liberal and conservative approach to Judaism. Orthodox and Hasidic community attended to their own religious schools (cheders) and private tutors. Lack of cooperative opportunities with liberal rabbi Dr. Glaser made the Hasidim bring a Hasidic rabbi, Aron Halberstam (from Sanz Hasidic dynasty), it's Biala. The Hasidim did not attend the official progressive synagogue. When Halberstam arrived in Biala in 1889, they used to meet their private home, synagogue at first, in Biala, 11-Listopada Street 63b. Later, Salo Kalfus made his own tenement house in Szpitalna street available as the orthodox synagogue. In order to maintain their synagogue, the Biala Hasidim along with Rabbi Halberstam created a religious association for Ahawas Thora (The Love of Torah) in 1912. Halberstam devotedly fought against deviations from the tradition, even the minor ones. In Galicia he was regarded as an outstanding expert in the Jewish law and many orthodox rabbis asked him for advice. The Hasidic community in Biala was well organized and deeply rooted in their forefathers’ tradition, despite the geographical proximity of the influence of German liberal Jews.\n\nAfter the end of World War I, Biala returned to the Second Polish Republic and became part of the Kraków Voivodeship.\n\nIn 1934, the official Jewish community came to change the Liturgy from Ashkenazi to Sephardic. The change was made by rabbi Dr. Samuel Hirschfeld, who was the leader of the Silesian Mizrachi (religious Zionism). Rabbi Hirschfeld said: \"We Jews, Zionists, are very inconsistent. We miss our old homeland Erez Israel. We build synagogues in the oriental style, we write books and poems in which we miss the smell of oriental fruits and spices. We delight in oriental music and the ancient Hebrew language. But in our synagogues we still have the German-Ashkenazi liturgy. It is not consistent. If we approach our Oriental sources, we must accept the Sephardic liturgy that is closer to our roots\".\n\nIn 1938 in Biala there were 25.867 inhabitants, of which 3.977 were Jews, which constituted 15,4% of the whole population.\n\nThe most important official rabbis were: Dr. Nathan Glaser (1878-1914), Dr. Abraham Mark (1918-1926), Dr. Samuel Hirschfeld (1926-1939). The most important orthodox rabbi was Aron Halberstam from Sanz Hasidic dynasty.\n\nIn 1936 the local Jewish sport organization Maccabi, organized the official celebration of 40th anniversary of its creation. Therefore, it would seem that the association was established in 1896 (Israelitische Turnverein) and Dr. Filip Türk wrote in Jewish newspaper “Tygodnik Żydowski” that \"The association must be credited with the historical merit, as it was the first Jewish gymnastic association in Europe to pave the way for the physical regeneration of Polish Jews\". Among the patrons of the celebrations we should mention the president of the Global Makkabi Union, Alfred Mond, 1st Baron Melchett, and the president of the Makabi Union in Poland, the member of parliament Henryk Rosmarin. Modern literature on the subject suggests that the first Jewish sports association, \"Gymnastieken Athletiekvereeniging Attila\", was established in April 1898 in Groningen. The second one, \"Zionistischer Turnverein Makabi\", was set up in Philippopel (Bulgaria) in June 1898 and third one was Israelitischer Turnverein created in Bielsko in December the same year. Although the exact date is not certain, the indisputable Bielsko pioneers of Jewish sport made the local maskilim proud. In the statute the association formulated its objective as promoting gymnastic exercise and intense sports activity. After 1918 the association was renamed as Bielitz-Bialaer Jüdischer Turnverein (Bielsko-Biala Jewish Gymnastic Association). In 1925 the club was again renamed as the Bielsko-Biala Jewish Gymnastic and Sports Association Maccabi. The seat of the club was located in Bielsko, in Kolejowa street 21 (today Barlickiego). Although the name and address referred specifically to Bielsko, the association also attracted Jews from Biala. Jewish sportsmen in Bielsko-Biała mainly played football, swimming, waterpoll, gymnastics, mountaineering and mountain skiing. In 1929 the first Jewish mountain chalet in the world was built here.\n\nNazi Germany occupied the Bielsko on September 3, 1939. Over 50% of Jews fled the city from 1 to 3 September to the East of Poland to Kraków, Lviv and the surrounding area. They wanted to wait there for the end of the war. However, on September 17, 1939, was Soviet invasion of Poland. This was the reason for the tragedy of many Bielsko Jews. Most of them were progressive Austrian Jews who spoke only German and they were opponents of the communist ideology. This was suspicious of the Soviet NKVD and many of them were killed or imprisoned by the Soviets in Siberia. This is how the rabbi of Bielsko, Dr. Markus Steiner, died who did not look like an Orthodox Jew and knew only German. The Russians will not believe that he is a rabbi from Poland and sent to Siberia, unfortunately he died in a train wagon and he was thrown out on the way to the forest. \nThe city of Biała was named Bielitz Ost and incorporated into Bielitz (Bielsko). In Bielitz Ost, the German Nazi authorities organized a ghetto. In the spring of 1942 the ghetto was liquidated and the Jews were resettled to the central Silesian ghetto in Sosnowiec and murdered in Auschwitz concentration camp. The last Jews from Bielitz were displaced in spring of 1942 and only about 30 families from mixed marriages (Mischling) remained in the city. After the war, 3,500 Jews were registered in the Jewish Committee in Bielsko between February 1945 and 1950. There were also sick Jewish prisoners from the Auschwitz camp liberated in January 1945. Relations and letters have been preserved in which the Jews mentioned that the city after the war was friendly and safe for Jews. A large Jewish Orphanage operated in the city.\n\nJewish Community of Bielsko-Biała is a member of Union of Jewish Religious Communities in Poland. Currently it brings together has several dozen members. The Community has active house of prayer in its headquarters. Meetings are held during Jewish holidays and important events. The headquarters also has Salomon Halberstam Library and an archive. There is also an active Chevra Lomdei Mishnayot synagogue in Oświęcim belonging to Auschwitz Jewish Center. The Jewish Community of Bielsko-Biała regained the synagogue from the Polish State for restoration and donated it to Auschwitz Jewish Center for its statutory purposes. The Community takes care of Jewish cemeteries in: Bielsko-Biała (the only one still functioning), Andrychów, Cieszyn (old and new), Kęty, Milówka, Oświęcim, Skoczów, Ustroń, Wadowice, Zator and Żywiec. Every year, the commune organizes many meetings, lectures, tours, concerts related to the history and culture of Jews in its area.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28342148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28342148", "title": "Jobar", "text": "Jobar\n\nJobar () also spelled Jawbar, Jober or Joubar, is a municipality of the Syrian capital Damascus. A once historical village on the outskirts of Damascus, it is now a suburb of the capital city. It lies 2 km northeast of the old city walls. It contains the most venerated site for Syrian Jews, an ancient 2,000-year-old synagogue and shrine in commemoration of the biblical prophet Elijah, which has been a place of Jewish pilgrimage for many centuries. Today Jobar lies in ruins due to ongoing battles between regular Syrian Army and FSA. It has been the site of hostilities during Syrian Civil War, including the 2017 Jobar offensive.\n\nOne of the earliest sources mentioning the existence of the village is from the Talmud, which states that the village was one of ten surrounding Damascus inhabited by Jews. Rabbi Rafram bar Pappa was recorded as having prayed in the synagogue of Jobar. During the medieval period, it was \"the most important and longest lasting Jewish community outside of the old city walls.\" An anonymous Jewish traveller who arrived a few years after the Spanish immigration (1522) found 60 Jewish families living in the village of Jobar, who had a \"very beautiful synagogue.\" Ibn Tulun (died 1546) mentions that \"Jobar is a Jewish village with a Muslim presence.\" The \"Chronicle\" of Joseph Sambari (1672) says that the Jewish community of Damascus lived chiefly in Jobar and in 1735 the village was populated solely by Jews.\n\nDocuments from the early 19th century describe properties in the village that belonged to Jewish \"wakf\" (religious endowment) and were leased to members of other communities. In 1839, the village was described as \"...prettily situated on a green fertile spot,\" that formed part of the Garden that surrounds Damascus. The inhabitants were reported as numbering 1,000 and seeming to be in a \"tolerably prosperous state.\" Its population was \"wholly Hebrew\" and governed by local Jewish institutions with a \"little hierarchy of rulers and subjects.\" During the rioting following accusation of ritual murder against the Jews of Damascus in 1840, the mob fell upon the synagogue, pillaged it and destroyed the scrolls of the Law.\nThere are conflicting reports from the mid-19th century onwards as to the ethno-religious makeup of the village. In 1839, it was reported that the village \"is entirely peopled by Jews.\" But an account a few years later in 1847 stated that the village was home to three to four thousand Muslims, with the exception of one Jewish family who took care of the synagogue, and according to a certain Mr. Graham, \"the village, the people, the synagogue and the family that inhabit it, are wretched and miserable in the extreme.\" In 1869, a visitor, while acknowledging the existence of the old synagogue, questions if there was ever a permanent Jewish presence in the village. She goes on to reveal that the village is, however, a \"favourite resort of wealthy Jews...It is their park and café. There they spend their long summer afternoons, often the entire night, under the bower of vine and jasmine.\" A publication in 1874 makes a claim to the contrary, that the village is \"principally a colony of Jews\". It is probable that the Jewish population must have dwindled, since by 1893, Richard F. Burton writes \"it is a Muslim village with a synagogue dedicated to Elijah and is a pilgrimage for Damascus Jews\", and the 1907 edition of \"Cook's handbook for Palestine and Syria\" states that \"Jobar is only a Muslim village.\" However, during these years, Jewish visits to the village persisted, and on festival days many of the Damascus Jews assembled at the synagogue to worship.\n\nAfter the establishment of the State of Israel, Jews in Syria faced greater discrimination as the Syrian government enforced tighter restrictions. Jewish property could not be sold and those that had been abandoned were confiscated. A religious centre in the neighbourhood was taken over by Palestinian Arabs and the old synagogue was converted into a school for displaced Arabs.\n\nThe neighbourhood is the burial-place of a wonder-working sage of the 16th century, the patriarch of the Abuhatzeira rabbinical dynasty, Rabbi Shmuel Elbaz-Abuchatzira. The fate of the synagogue remains a source of controversy.\n\nOn July 28, 2010, a number of TV satellite dishes were removed by municipal workers enforcing a conservation project in the neighborhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "4989094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4989094", "title": "John E. Teeple", "text": "John E. Teeple\n\nJohn Edgar Teeple (January 4, 1874 – March 23, 1931) was a chemical engineer who served as President of The Chemists' Club from 1921-1922 and received the Perkin Medal in 1927 for his work on potash during World War I.\n\nHe was also an American researcher and contributor to the field of Mesoamerican studies during the first half of the 20th century. He published several papers on the epigraphy and astronomy of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization, and he is most noted for being the first to decipher the nature and meaning of the series of glyphs in the Maya writing system known as the \"Supplementary Series\", proving they referred to the position of a given day in the lunar cycle.\n\nThe mathematically adept Teeple was encouraged into the field of Maya studies by his friend, the Mesoamerican scholar Sylvanus G. Morley, one of the foremost Mayanist researchers of his day. By this time (the mid-1920s), although a few details relating to the functioning of the Maya calendar system and some astronomical notation had been worked out, the great majority of ancient Maya inscriptions and glyphs remained mysterious and undeciphered.\n"}
{"id": "11171378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11171378", "title": "Joseph Orbeli", "text": "Joseph Orbeli\n\nJoseph Orbeli (, Hovsep Abgari Orbeli; , Iosif Abgarovich Orbeli; 20 March (O.S. 8 March) 1887 – 2 February 1961) was a Soviet-Armenian orientalist and academician, who specialized in medieval history of Southern Caucasus and administered the State Hermitage Museum in Leningrad from 1934 to 1951. Of Armenian descent, he was the founder and first president of the Armenian Academy of Sciences (1943–47).\n\nBorn into a medieval noble family in Kutaisi, Russian Georgia in 1887, Joseph Orbeli completed his secondary education at a classical \"gymnasium\" in Tiflis. In 1904, he was accepted to St. Petersburg University. He studied history and philology (with a particular emphasis in Latin and Greek) and graduated from the university in 1911. During his student years, Orbeli accompanied his professor, Nicholas Marr, to Russian Armenia, where he took part in excavations of the ruins of the medieval Armenian capital of Ani. Marr pushed his pupil to fully immerse himself in the fields of archaeology, literature, lithography and linguistics; otherwise, Marr reasoned, he would find himself unprepared in his research and his studies.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Orbeli departed for Armenia once more. He became the director of an on-site museum that was established at Ani and, during Marr's absences, frequently headed the excavations himself. He also traveled to Nagorno-Karabakh (more precisely, to the historical region of Khachen), gathering and categorizing lithographic material. Orbeli also managed to travel to Turkish Armenia, where he was able to study Armenian, Seljuk, and Urartian monuments and conduct research on Armenian and Kurdish dialects.\n\nGradually, Orbeli was emerging as the leading authority on Armenian antiquities in the world. In 1912, he became a member of the Imperial Russian Archaeological Society and in 1914, he began teaching Armenian and Kurdish studies at Saint Petersburg University. In 1916, he participated in a Russian archaeological expedition around the Lake Van region; it was here where he discovered an inscription attributed to the Urartian king Sardur II. He continued his work at St. Petersburg University (in 1917, he was appointed an assistant professor of Armenian-Georgian studies), but occasionally taught at Moscow's Lazarev Institute of Oriental Languages as well. In the years leading up to the Russian Revolution, Orbeli published a number of books, including a catalogue of artifacts found at Ani and a series of studies dealing with classical philology, Armenian history, archaeology and art.\n\nThis led to his appointment to the Hermitage Museum in July 1934, which he would steer through the hardships of Joseph Stalin's purges. In December 1941, the deadliest month of the Siege of Leningrad, Orbeli led a festival dedicated to Ali-Shir Nava'i, a medieval Turkic poet and philosopher. Orbeli considerably enhanced the museum's holdings of Oriental art, making it one of the top Oriental art museums in the world. No less important was Orbeli's role as head of the national school of Caucasus studies. Orbeli underscored the importance of linguistic studies for proper understanding of historical processes.\n\nIn 1934, as a member of the Soviet delegation, he went to Iran for the celebrations to mark the 1000th anniversary of the birth of Persian poet Ferdowsi and visited the cities of Tehran and Mashhad. A year later he organised the 3rd International Congress of Iranian Art and Archeology at the Hermitage and the accompanying exhibition therein. The other spiritus movens of the congress was Arthur Upham Pope.\n\nIn 1955–60, he was in charge of the Faculty of Oriental Studies at the Leningrad University.\n\nHe was buried at Bogoslovskoe Cemetery in Leningrad. He was featured in the movie Russian Ark as the director of the Hermitage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11362463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11362463", "title": "Kōji (Heian period)", "text": "Kōji (Heian period)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26238204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26238204", "title": "Liaquat Ahamed", "text": "Liaquat Ahamed\n\nLiaquat Ahamed (born November 14, 1952 in Kenya) is an American author.\n\nAhamed has worked at the World Bank in Washington D.C., where he headed the bank's investment division, and at the New York-based partnership of Fischer, Francis Trees and Watts, a fixed-income business and subsidiary of BNP Paribas, where he served as Chief Investment Officer and from 2001-2004 as Chief Executive. From October 2007 he has been a director of Aspen Insurance Holdings and in addition advises several hedge funds, including Rock Creek Group and The Rohatyn Group. He is a member of Board of Trustees at the Brookings Institution and is involved with the New America Foundation.\n\nAhamed was born in Kenya, whither his grandfather had emigrated from Gujarat by way of Zanzibar in the late 19th century. He was educated at Rugby School in England, at Trinity College, Cambridge, and at Harvard University. Through his production company, Red Wine Pictures, Ahamed was a producer on the 2006 film \"The Situation\", set in Iraq.\n\nAhamed comes from the Nizari Ismaili Shia sect, but describes himself as a non-practising Muslim. Ahamed's wife Meena is active with Médecins Sans Frontières and other charitable enterprises. His son-in-law is actor Jonathan Tucker.\n\nAhamed is the author of \"Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World\" (2009). The book was awarded the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for History, the 2010 Spear's Book Award (Financial History Book of the Year), the 2010 Arthur Ross Book Award Gold Medal, the 2009 Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award. For 2009 it was recognized as one of \"Time\" magazine's \"Best Books of the Year\", \"New York Times\" \"Best Books of the Year\" and Amazon.com's \"Best Books of the Year\". It was shortlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize. It is published by Penguin Books (USA) Inc. .\n\nThe book narrates the events preceding the Black Tuesday stock market crash of 1929 and the disastrous response of the world's major central banks. It follows the life and actions of the then chiefs of the central banks: Benjamin Strong Jr. of the New York Federal Reserve, Montagu Norman of the Bank of England, Émile Moreau of the Banque de France, and Hjalmar Schacht of the Reichsbank. John Maynard Keynes, a British well-known economist of the time appears on many occasions in the book in a role opposing the central bankers. The main theme of the book is the role played by the central bankers' insistence to adhere to the gold standard \"even in the face of total catastrophe\".\n\nIn June 2012, Ahamed himself drew a similar parallel in a \"Financial Times\" column, saying that \"during the past few months, as the crisis in Europe has spiralled out of control\", he had \"begun to fear that the world might in fact be repeating some of th[e] same errors\" as those made in the 1920s and 1930s. While the 21st-century central bankers and banks were starkly different from their 19th-century predecessors, Ahamed said that \"as they experiment with unconventional monetary tools to get the global economy moving, ironically they may find their years of training less useful than their instincts. ... [S]ome of the same intractable factors that their predecessors of the 1930s had to contend with will overwhelm them once again\", today's bankers fear. France, Ahamed pointed out, was the strongest economy and financial system in 1930s Europe, while Germany was reeling. And like Germany seemingly in 2012, France in the 1930s could not find a way to use its strength to help its neighbor. Ahamed in June 2012 concluded with a question: \"If, over the next few months, a financial accident takes place in Europe, as is likely, is there any European institution willing and able to act as fast and with such vigour [as the 2008, Lehman-bankruptcy-era US Fed and Treasury] to prevent a disaster?\"\n"}
{"id": "52184850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52184850", "title": "List of Muisca and pre-Muisca sites", "text": "List of Muisca and pre-Muisca sites\n\nThis is a list of Muisca and pre-Muisca archaeological sites; sites on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense, where archaeological evidence has been discovered of the Muisca and their ancestors of the Herrera, preceramic and prehistorical periods.\n\nOver the course of the centuries and mainly in the 21st century, many sites with evidences of Muisca and pre-Muisca presence have been found and reported.\n\nThe possibly oldest evidence of human settlement in the Eastern Ranges of the Colombian Andes has been discovered just west of the former Muisca territories, at Pubenza in Tocaima, Cundinamarca. Eight stone tools have been found with bone remains, consisting of among others \"Haplomastodon\" and turtles, which have been dated at 16,400 ± 420 years BP. Due to the location at an inundated platform, it is unclear if the bones and thus age were \"in situ\".\n\nThe Altiplano Cundiboyacense, with its valleys of Sogamoso-Duitama, Tunja and Ubaté-Chiquinquirá and the southeastern flatlands of the Bogotá savanna, as well as the Tenza Valley to the east, was inhabited for 12,000 years by indigenous peoples. At the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors, the area of approximately was populated by the Muisca, organised in a loose confederation; the Muisca Confederation.\n\nWhile various classifications of the archaeological history of the Andean high plateau exist, the most commonly accepted sequence, in years BP, is shown to the right.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15802926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15802926", "title": "MacCrimmon (piping family)", "text": "MacCrimmon (piping family)\n\nThe MacCrimmons (Gaelic: \"MacCruimein\") were a Scottish family, pipers to the chiefs of Clan MacLeod for an unknown number of generations. The MacCrimmon kindred was centred at Borreraig near the Clan MacLeod seat at Dunvegan on the Isle of Skye. At Borreraig the MacCrimmons taught at one of the best known \"piping colleges\" in the Highlands of Scotland.\n\nOver time many pieces of \"Pìobaireachd\" (also known as \"Ceòl Mòr\": \"Big music\") have been attributed to the MacCrimmons by popular tradition, yet the actual authorship of these cannot be verified. Popular lore has made the MacCrimmon pipers one of the most famous families of \"hereditary pipers\" along with the MacArthur (pipers to MacDonald of Sleat), MacGregor (pipers to Campbell of Glenlyon), Rankins (pipers to the MacLeans of Coll, Duart and Mull). The term \"hereditary\" is not a native Gaelic term, though in popular lore it has been used to imply an above average skill or special status. In the Scottish Highlands, and in Europe as a whole, until the Industrial Revolution most positions were inherited, \"from the chief down to the humblest cotter\".\n\nSince 1967, the MacCrimmon Memorial Piobaireachd Competition has taken place every year at Dunvegan Castle where players complete to win the 'silver chanter'. Competitors only play tunes attributed to the legendary MacCrimmon family.\n\nThe origins of the MacCrimmons is debatable; even the genealogy of the pipers themselves is the subject of debate and speculation. In the 20th century the chiefs of Clan Macleod instated two MacCrimmons as hereditary pipers to the clan.\n\nThe origin of the MacCrimmons is vague and has long been debated. One fanciful theory originating from Captain Neil MacLeod of Gesto was that the MacCrimmons descend from an Italian from the city of Cremona. Gesto was an intimate friend of Black John MacCrimmon (d 1822) the last hereditary piper to MacLeod, and it is reputed that from him Gesto received the \"Cremona tradition\". According to Gesto, the founder of the MacCrimmons was a priest from Cremona named Giuseppe Bruno, whose son Petrus (or Patrick Bruno) was born at Cremona in 1475 and later emigrated to Ulster in 1510. On Patrick's arrival in Ireland he then married the daughter of a piping family and Gaelicised his name. Gesto's origin for the MacCrimmons is not taken seriously today. According to Alastair Campbell of Airds the tradition was \"fuelled by a non-Latinist finding the word 'Donald' in a 1612 Latin charter to Donald MacCrimmon, is that they were Italians from Cremona\".\n\nIt is generally accepted that the surname may be of Norse origin, with \"MacCrimmon\" being an Anglicised form of the Scottish Gaelic \"Mac Ruimein\" meaning \"son of \"Ruimean\"\". \"Ruimean\" is possibly a Gaelic form of the Old Norse personal name \"Hroðmundr\" which is composed of the elements \"hróð\" (meaning \"fame\") + \"mundr\" (meaning \"protection\").\n\nWhile this name origin would seem to tie in with the MacCrimmons' association with the MacLeods and the Isle of Skye the earliest references to a MacCrimmon (who were also pipers) appears in Campbell lands. The earliest reference is found in a bond of manrent of November 29, 1574 between Colin Campbell of Glenorchy and \"John Tailzoure Makchrwmen in the Kirktoun of Balquhidder and Malccolme pyper Mackchrwmen in Craigroy\", this reference being over ninety years before the MacCrimmons are found as pipers to MacLeod of Dunvegan in Skye. Another early reference is to a \"Patrik Mcquhirryman, piper\", mentioned in the \"Register of the Privy Council\", vol.5 (1592–99), who is mentioned in connection with a crime in Perthshire. Alastair Campbell of Airds speculated that MacCrimmons were pipers to the Campbells of Glenorchy prior to the MacLeods of Dunvegan and Harris.\n\nBy the mid-1690s the MacCrimmons are confirmed to have been located in the Hebrides and seem to have been recognised as masters of their craft. An order from John Campbell, Earl of Breadalbane to his chamberlain, Campbell of Barcaldine reads: \"Give McIntyre ye pyper fforty pounds scots as his prentises(hi)p with McCrooman till May nixt as also provyde him in what Cloths he needs and dispatch him immediately to the Isles\". The order seems to relate to a statement written by the mentioned earl of Breadalbane on April 22, 1697 at Taymouth in Perthshire: \"Item paid to quantiliane McCraingie McLeans pyper for one complete year as prentyce fie for the Litle pyper before he was sent to McCrooman, the soume of £160\" (modern translation: \"Item, paid to Conduiligh Mac Frangaich [Rankin], MacLean's piper, for one complete year, as apprentice fee for the Little Piper before he [the Little Piper] was sent to MacCrimmon, the sum of £160\"). The MacCrimmon instructor that is referenced to may well be Pàdraig Òg.\n\nThough much has been written about the MacCrimmon pipers to the MacLeods of Dunvegan, there is little reliable information on them. The genealogy of the \"hereditary pipers\" has also been the subject of debate and speculation. The MacCrimmon of whom there is the most reliable information is Red Donald (\"Dòmhnull Ruadh\") (d July 31, 1825). Red Donald held tacks at Borreraig and Shader, and at Trien in Waternish, and also a farm at Glenelg. Red Donald's older brother was Black John (\"Iain Dubh\") (d 1822), who also held the Boreraig tack. The MacCrimmon brothers had their most formative years during the Disarming Act. Today it is accepted that these MacCrimmon brothers were sons of Malcolm (\"Calum\"), son of \"Pàdraig Òg\", who were both pipers to the chiefs of MacLeod and who also held land from them. Red Donald and Black John's father and paternal uncle (Donald Ban) both piped for the Government forces in the 1745–46 Jacobite Rising.\n\nDuring the Jacobite Rising in 1745 the chief of Clan MacLeod supported the Hanoverians against the Jacobites. As MacLeod's piper, Donald Ban MacCrimmon (Dòmnhall/Dòmnhull Bàn MacCruimein – \"bàn\" meaning fairhaired cf Duncan Ban MacIntyre) took an active part in the conflicts against the Jacobite forces. Donald Ban was captured on December 23, 1745 following the Hanoverian defeat at the Battle of Inverurie (1745). During his captivity, the pipers in the Jacobite army went on strike, refusing to play while the \"King of Pipers\" was held captive. According to popular tradition, Donald Ban wrote his well-known lament, \"Cha till, cha till, cha till, MacCruimein\" (meaning literally \"MacCrimmon will not, will not, will not return.\" it has been variously titled \"No more, no more, no more, MacCrimmon\", \"MacCrimmon shall never return\", \"MacCrimmon's Lament\" among others) with an intimation of his fate.\n\nDonald Ban was eventually killed during the so-called \"Rout of Moy\" when on February 18, 1746, with the Jacobites marching on Inverness, Lord Loudoun led 1,500 men in an attempt to capture Charles Edward Stuart. When the Government troops advanced upon Moy in the dark they encountered a watch made up of only a handful of Mackintoshes. In the encounter a single shot was fired and Donald Ban was instantly killed. With the death of their piper, panic quickly spread and Loudoun's forces fled in the \"Rout of Moy\". According to John William O'Sullivan's narrative, \"McCloud had his Piper killed just by his side, & was very much laughed at when he came back\".\n\nThe MacCrimmon of whom there is the most reliable information is Red Donald (\"Dòmhnull Ruadh\") (d July 31, 1825). Red Donald held tacks at Borreraig and Shader, and at Trien in Waternish, and also a farm at Glenelg. In the early 1770s he left Scotland and settled in North America in what is now North Carolina. He was away from Scotland for about seventeen years (1773–1790), though there is no record of him associated with his involvement with the pipes in any way. He settled in Anson County (located in what is now North Carolina, USA). He took part in the American Revolutionary War as a Loyalist, raising troops for the British forces and served as a Lieutenant. He claimed to have been present at the Battle of Moore's Creek Bridge in 1776. He eventually lost an eye. Red Donald evidently evaded capture by the Americans at Yorktown in 1781. After the end of hostilities he spent seven years as a Loyalist in Shelburne County, Nova Scotia, (located in what is now Nova Scotia, Canada).\n\nHe returned to Scotland in 1790, at the insistence of the Highland Society of London which defrayed the cost of MacCrimmon, his wife, and three of their four children's journey back to Scotland. In 1808 the Highland Society of London proposed that a College of Piping be re-established at Fort Augustus, and that Lt. MacCrimmon should supervise instruction. This proposal was declined though, causing Red Donald \"disappointment and mortification\".\n\nAccording to J. G. Lockhart's biography of Sir Walter Scott: \"MacLeod's hereditary piper is called MacCrimmon, but the present holder of the office has risen above his profession. He is an old, a lieutenant in the army, and a most capital piper, possessing about 200 tunes and pibrochs, most of which will probably die with him as he declines to have any of his sons instructed in the art. He plays to MacLeod and his lady, but only in the same room, and maintains his minstrel privilege by putting on his bonnet so soon as he begins to play\".\n\nRed Donald's decision not to pass his knowledge of piping on to his sons seems to be related to the massive emigration of the MacLeod estates in the 1770s, in which he himself gave up Borreraig and sailed for North America. Even in 1799 after his return to Scotland Macleod put many substantial tacks up for sale around Dunvegan. In his later life, he is associated with Glenelg, which MacLeod sold in 1798 and subsequently re-sold in 1811, 1824, 1837, further forcing the poorer Highlanders to emigrate to North America.\n\nThe last MacCrimmon to be hereditary piper to MacLeod of MacLeod (until the modern era) was Black John MacCrimmon. According to tradition in 1795 Black John decided to emigrate to America, though only got as far as Greenock, before making up his mind to stay on the Isle of Skye, where he died in 1822 aged ninety-one.\n\nThe MacCrimmon piping dynasty is honoured in the form of cairn built in 1933, at Borreraig. This cairn, which overlooks Loch Dunvegan across to Dunvegan Castle, was paid for by clan societies and donations from around the world. The Gaelic inscription on the cairn reads in translation as: \"The Memorial Cairn of the MacCrimmons of whom ten generations were the hereditary pipers of MacLeod and who were renowned as Composers, Performers and Instructors of the classical music of the bagpipe. Near to this post stood the MacCrimmons' School of Music, 1500–1800\".\n\nIn the last century, with a revival in clan interest, the modern chiefs of Clan MacLeod have instated two MacCrimmons as hereditary pipers to the chief. Malcolm Roderick MacCrimmon, a Canadian born in 1918, started piping at the age of eight. With the start of the Second World War he joined the Calgary Highlanders and subsequently joined the pipe band. At some point in time he wrote to Dame Flora MacLeod, chief of Clan MacLeod, asking for approval and support of his decorating his bagpipes in the MacLeod tartan. The chief then wrote to the regiment's Commanding Officer and permission was granted. In 1942, MacCrimmon is said to have made a verbal agreement with the clan chief and became the ninth \"hereditary piper\" to the Chief of Clan MacLeod. MacCrimmon claimed there was proof of his descent from the MacCrimmons of Borreraig, and as such, that he was a descendant of the hereditary pipers to the Chief. In 1978, John MacLeod of MacLeod, 29th chief of Clan MacLeod, while visiting Calgary, Alberta, Canada, formally made Malcolm's son, Iain Norman MacCrimmon, the tenth hereditary piper to the Chief of Clan MacLeod.\n\nA fictional member of the Clan is Jamie McCrimmon, a piper to \"Clan MacLaren\" in the television series Doctor Who, although in reality the MacCrimmons are pipers to Clan MacLeod. Much of the genealogical information for the family is fictional, for example, Finlay of the White Plaid, claimed as a MacCrimmon, by Dame Flora MacLeod and others, was always, in the oral traditions of Waternish, a celebrated Macleod.\n\n"}
{"id": "54013653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54013653", "title": "Morten Axboe", "text": "Morten Axboe\n\nMorten Axboe (born 1946) is a Danish archaeologist and curator at the National Museum of Denmark, notable for his study of bracteates. Axboe is also known for theorizing a connection between finds of 6th century Scandinavian gold hoards and the extreme weather events of 535–536, as a reacton to the 'dying' sun and the fimbulwinter-like climate of those years. Gold may have been buried, he suggested, as sacrifices intended to appease the gods.\n\nAxboe has also published on the manufacture of the Torslunda plates and the making of Migration Period chip-carving ornament.\n\nIn 2007 he obtained his DPhil with his dissertation \"Brakteatstudier\" (Studies in Gold Bracteates). Like many of his papers, this book is accessible on Academia.edu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12238644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12238644", "title": "Myth of the flat Earth", "text": "Myth of the flat Earth\n\nThe myth of the flat Earth is a modern misconception that Earth was widely believed to be flat rather than spherical during the Middle Ages in Europe.\n\nDuring the Early Middle Ages, virtually all scholars maintained the spherical viewpoint, which had been first expressed by the Ancient Greeks. From at least the 14th century, belief in a flat Earth among educated Europeans was almost nonexistent, despite fanciful depictions in art, such as the exterior of Hieronymus Bosch's famous triptych \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\", in which a disc-shaped Earth is shown floating inside a transparent sphere.\n\nAccording to Stephen Jay Gould, \"there never was a period of 'flat Earth darkness' among scholars (regardless of how the public at large may have conceptualized our planet both then and now). Greek knowledge of sphericity never faded, and all major medieval scholars accepted the Earth's roundness as an established fact of cosmology.\" Historians of science David Lindberg and Ronald Numbers point out that \"there was scarcely a Christian scholar of the Middle Ages who did not acknowledge [Earth's] sphericity and even know its approximate circumference\".\n\nHistorian Jeffrey Burton Russell says the flat-Earth error flourished most between 1870 and 1920, and had to do with the ideological setting created by struggles over biological evolution. Russell claims \"with extraordinary few exceptions no educated person in the history of Western Civilization from the third century B.C. onward believed that the Earth was flat\", and ascribes popularization of the flat-Earth myth to histories by John William Draper, Andrew Dickson White, and Washington Irving.\n\nIn \"Inventing the Flat Earth: Columbus and Modern Historians\", Jeffrey Russell describes the Flat Earth theory as a fable used to impugn pre-modern civilization and creationism.\n\nJames Hannam wrote:\n\nFrench dramatist Cyrano de Bergerac in chapter 5 of his \"Comical History of the States and Empires of the Moon\" (published 2 years posthumously in 1657) quotes St. Augustine as saying \"that in his day and age the Earth was as flat as a stove lid and that it floated on water like half of a sliced orange.\" Robert Burton, in his \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" wrote:\nThus, there is evidence that accusations of Flatearthism, though somewhat whimsical (Burton ends his digression with a legitimate quotation of St. Augustine: \"Better doubt of things concealed, than to contend about uncertainties, where Abraham's bosom is, and hell fire\") were used to discredit opposing authorities several centuries before the 19th. Another early mention in literature is Ludvig Holberg's comedy \"Erasmus Montanus\" (1723). Erasmus Montanus meets considerable opposition when he claims the Earth is round, since all the peasants hold it to be flat. He is not allowed to marry his fiancée until he cries \"The earth is flat as a pancake\". In Thomas Jefferson's book \"Notes on the State of Virginia\" (1784), framed as answers to a series of questions (queries), Jefferson uses the \"Query\" regarding religion to attack the idea of state-sponsored official religions. In the chapter, Jefferson relates a series of official erroneous beliefs about nature forced upon people by authority. One of these is the episode of Galileo's struggles with authority, which Jefferson erroneously frames in terms of the shape of the globe:\n\nThe 19th century was a period in which the perception of an antagonism between religion and science was especially strong. The disputes surrounding the Darwinian revolution contributed to the birth of the conflict thesis, a view of history according to which any interaction between religion and science would almost inevitably lead to open hostility, with religion usually taking the part of the aggressor against new scientific ideas.\n\nIn 1828, Washington Irving's highly romanticised biography, \"A History of the Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus\", was published and mistaken by many for a scholarly work. In Book II, Chapter IV of this biography, Irving gave a largely fictional account of the meetings of a commission established by the Spanish sovereigns to examine Columbus's proposals. One of his more fanciful embellishments was a highly unlikely tale that the more ignorant and bigoted members on the commission had raised scriptural objections to Columbus's assertions that the Earth was spherical.\n\nThe issue in the 1490s was not the shape of the Earth, but its size, and the position of the east coast of Asia, as Irving in fact points out. Historical estimates from Ptolemy onwards placed the coast of Asia about 180° east of the Canary Islands. Columbus adopted an earlier (and rejected) distance of 225°, added 28° (based on Marco Polo's travels), and then placed Japan another 30° further east. Starting from Cape St. Vincent in Portugal, Columbus made Eurasia stretch 283° to the east, leaving the Atlantic as only 77° wide. Since he planned to leave from the Canaries (9° further west), his trip to Japan would only have to cover 68° of longitude.\n\nColumbus mistakenly assumed that the mile referred to in the Arabic estimate of 56⅔ miles for the size of a degree was the same as the actually much shorter Italian mile of . His estimate for the size of the degree and for the circumference of the Earth was therefore about 25% too small. The combined effect of these mistakes was that Columbus estimated the distance to Japan to be only about 5,000 km (or only to the eastern edge of the Caribbean) while the true figure is about 20,000 km. The Spanish scholars may not have known the exact distance to the east coast of Asia, but they believed that it was significantly further than Columbus's projection; and this was the basis of the criticism in Spain and Portugal, whether academic or amongst mariners, of the proposed voyage.\n\nThe disputed point was not the shape of the Earth, nor the idea that going west would eventually lead to Japan and China, but the ability of European ships to sail that far across open seas. The small ships of the day (Columbus's three ships varied between 20.5 and 23.5 m – or 67 to 77 feet – in length and carried about 90 men) simply could not carry enough food and water to reach Japan. The ships barely reached the eastern Caribbean islands. Already the crews were mutinous, not because of some fear of \"sailing off the edge\", but because they were running out of food and water with no chance of any new supplies within sailing distance. They were on the edge of starvation. What saved Columbus was the unknown existence of the Americas precisely at the point he thought he would reach Japan. His ability to resupply with food and water from the Caribbean islands allowed him to return safely to Europe. Otherwise his crews would have died, and the ships foundered.\n\nIn 1834, a few years after the publication of Irving's book, Jean Antoine Letronne, a French academic of strong antireligious ideas, misrepresented the church fathers and their medieval successors as believing in a flat earth in his \"On the Cosmographical Ideas of the Church Fathers\". Then in 1837, the English philosopher of science William Whewell, in his \"History of the Inductive Sciences\", identified Lactantius, author of \"Institutiones Divinae\" (c. 310), and Cosmas Indicopleustes, author of \"Christian Topography\" (c. 548), as evidence of a medieval belief in a Flat Earth. Lactantius had been ridiculed much earlier by Copernicus in \"De revolutionibus\" of 1543 as someone who \"Speaks quite childishly about the Earth's shape, when he mocks those who declared that the Earth has the form of a globe\".\n\nOther historians quickly followed Whewell, although they could identify few other examples. The American chemist John William Draper wrote a \"History of the Conflict between Religion and Science\" (1874), employing the claim that the early Church fathers thought the Earth was flat as evidence of the hostility of the Church to the advancement of science. The story of widespread religious belief in the flat Earth was repeated by Andrew Dickson White in his 1876 \"The Warfare of Science\" and elaborated twenty years later in his two-volume \"History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom\", which exaggerated the number and significance of medieval flat Earthers to support White's model of warfare between dogmatic theology and scientific progress. As Draper and White's metaphor of ongoing warfare between the scientific progress of the Enlightenment and the religious obscurantism of the \"Dark Ages\" became widely accepted, it spread the idea of medieval belief in the flat Earth.\n\nThe widely circulated engraving of a man poking his head through the firmament surrounding the Earth to view the Empyrean, executed in the style of the 16th century, was published in Camille Flammarion's \"L'Atmosphère: Météorologie Populaire\" (Paris, 1888, p. 163). The engraving illustrates the statement in the text that a medieval missionary claimed that \"he reached the horizon where the Earth and the heavens met\". In its original form, the engraving included a decorative border that places it in the 19th century. In later publications, some of which claimed that the engraving dates to the 16th century, the border was removed.\n\nSince the early 20th century, a number of books and articles have documented the flat earth error as one of a number of widespread misconceptions in popular views of the Middle Ages. Both E. M. W. Tillyard's book \"The Elizabethan World Picture\" and C. S. Lewis' \"The Discarded Image\" are devoted to a broad survey of how the universe was viewed in Renaissance and medieval times, and both extensively discuss how the educated classes knew the world was round. Lewis draws attention to the fact that in Dante's \"The Divine Comedy\" about an epic voyage through hell, purgatory, and heaven, the earth is spherical with gravity being towards the center of the earth. As the Devil is frozen in a block of ice in the center of the earth, Dante and Virgil climb down the Devil's torso, but up from the Devil's waist to his feet, as his waist is at the center of the earth.\n\nJeffrey Burton Russell rebutted the prevalence of belief in the flat Earth in a monograph and two papers. Louise Bishop states that virtually every thinker and writer of the 1000-year medieval period affirmed the spherical shape of the Earth.\n\nAlthough the misconception was frequently refuted in historical scholarship since at least 1920, it persisted in popular culture and in some school textbooks into the 21st century. An American schoolbook by Emma Miller Bolenius published in 1919 has this introduction to the suggested reading for Columbus Day (12 October):\n\nA 2009 survey of schoolbooks from Austria and Germany showed that the Flat Earth myth became dominant in the second half of the 20th century and persists in most historical textbooks for German and Austrian schools.\n\nAs recently as 1983 Daniel Boorstin published a historical survey, \"The Discoverers\", which presented the Flammarion engraving on its cover and proclaimed that \"from AD 300 to at least 1300 ... Christian faith and dogma suppressed the useful image of the world that had been so ... scrupulously drawn by ancient geographers.\" Boorstin dedicated a chapter to the flat earth, in which he portrayed Cosmas Indicopleustes as the founder of Christian geography. The flat earth model has often been incorrectly supposed to be church doctrine by those who wish to portray the Catholic Church as being anti-progress or hostile to scientific inquiry. This narrative has been repeated even in academic circles, such as in April 2016, when Boston College theology professor and ex-priest Thomas Groome erroneously stated that \"the Catholic Church never said the earth is round, but just stopped saying it was flat.\"\n\nThe 1937 popular song \"They All Laughed\" contains the couplet \"They all laughed at Christopher Columbus/When he said the world was round\". In the Warner Bros. \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon \"Hare We Go\" (1951) Christopher Columbus and Ferdinand the Catholic quarrel about the shape of the Earth; the king states the Earth is flat. In Walt Disney's 1963 animation \"The Sword in the Stone\", wizard Merlin (who has traveled into the future) explains to a young Arthur that \"man will discover in centuries to come\" that the Earth is round, and rotates.\n\nHistorical writers have identified a number of historical circumstances that contributed to the origin and widespread acceptance of the flat-earth myth. American historian Jeffrey Burton Russell traced the nineteenth-century origins of what he called the Flat Error to a group of anticlerical French scholars, particularly to Antoine-Jean Letronne and, indirectly, to his teachers Jean-Baptiste Gail and Edme Mentelle. Mentelle had described the Middle Ages as twelve ignorant centuries of \"profound night\", a theme exemplified by the flat-earth myth in Letronne's \"On the Cosmological Opinions of the Church Fathers\".\n\nHistorian of science Edward Grant saw a fertile ground for the development of the flat-Earth myth in a more general assault upon the Middle Ages and upon scholastic thought, which can be traced back to Francesco Petrarch in the fourteenth century. Grant sees \"one of the most extreme assaults against the Middle Ages\" in Draper's \"History of the Intellectual Development of Europe\", which appeared a decade before Draper presented the flat-Earth myth in his \"History of the Conflict Between Religion and Science\".\n\nAndrew Dickson White's motives were more complex. As the first president of Cornell University, he had advocated that it be established without any religious ties but be \"an asylum for science\". In addition, he was a strong advocate for Darwinism, saw religious figures as the main opponents of the Darwinian evolution, and sought to project that conflict of theology and science back through the entire Christian Era. But as some historians have pointed out, the nineteenth-century conflict over Darwinism incorporated disputes over the relative authority of professional scientists and clergy in the fields of science and education. White made this concern manifest in the preface to his \"History of the Warfare of Science and Theology in Christendom\", where he explained the lack of advanced instruction in many American colleges and universities by their \"sectarian character\".\n\nThe flat-Earth myth, like other myths, took on artistic form in the many works of art displaying Columbus defending the sphericity of the Earth before the Council of Salamanca. American artists depicted a forceful Columbus challenging the \"prejudices, the mingled ignorance and erudition, and the pedantic bigotry\" of the churchmen. Abrams sees this image of a Romantic hero, a practical man of business, and a Yankee go-getter as crafted to appeal to nineteenth-century Americans.\n\nRussell suggests that the flat-earth error was able to take such deep hold on the modern imagination because of prejudice and presentism. He specifically mentions \"the Protestant prejudice against the Middle Ages for Being Catholic ... the Rationalist prejudice against Judeo-Christianity as a whole\", and \"the assumption of the superiority of 'our' views to those of older cultures\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34492673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34492673", "title": "Neo-Marxian economics", "text": "Neo-Marxian economics\n\nThe terms neo-Marxian, post-Marxian and radical political economics were first used to refer to a distinct tradition of economic thought in the 1970s and 1980s. Many of the leading figures were associated with the Monthly Review School.\n\nIn industrial economics, the neo-Marxian approach stresses the monopolistic rather than the competitive nature of capitalism. This approach is associated with Michał Kalecki, Paul A. Baran and Paul Sweezy.\n\nTheorists such as Samuel Bowles, David Gordon, John Roemer, Herbert Gintis, Jon Elster and Adam Przeworski have adopted the techniques of neoclassical economics, including game theory and mathematical modeling, to demonstrate Marxian concepts such as exploitation and class conflict. The neo-Marxian approach integrated non-Marxist or \"bourgeois\" economics from the post-Keynesians like Joan Robinson and the neo-Ricardian school of Piero Sraffa.\n\nPolish economists Michał Kalecki, Rosa Luxemburg, Henryk Grossman, Adam Przeworski and Oskar Lange were influential in this school, particularly in developing theories of underconsumption. While most official communist parties denounced neo-Marxian theories as \"bourgeois economics\", some neo-Marxians served as advisers to socialist or Third World developing governments.\n\nMaurice Dobb despite being an orthodox Marxist economist was also associated with this current.\n\nBig business can maintain selling prices at high levels while still competing to cut costs, advertise and market their products. However, competition is generally limited with a few large capital formations sharing various markets, with the exception of a few actual monopolies (such as the Bell System at the time). The economic surpluses which result cannot be absorbed through consumers spending more. The concentration of the surplus in the hands of the business elite must therefore be geared towards imperialistic and militaristic government tendencies, which is the easiest and surest way to utilise surplus productive capacity.\n\nExploitation focuses on low wage workers and groups at home, especially minorities. Average earners see the pressures in drive for production destroy their human relationships, leading to wider alienation and hostility. The whole system is largely irrational since though individuals may make rational decisions, the ultimate systemic goals are not. The system continues to function so long as Keynesian full employment policies are pursued, but there is the continued threat to stability from less-developed countries, throwing off the restraints of neo-colonial domination.\n\nBaran introduced the concept of \"economic surplus\" to deal with novel complexities raised by the dominance of monopoly capital. With Paul Sweezy, Baran elaborated the importance of this innovation, its consistency with Marx's labor concept of value and supplementary relation to Marx's category of surplus value.\n\nAccording to Baran's categories, \"[a]ctual economic surplus\" is \"the difference between what society's actual current output and its actual current consumption\" and hence is equal to current savings or accumulation. \"Potential economic surplus\", in contrast, is \"the difference between that output that could be produced in a given natural and technical environment with the help of employable productive resources, and what might be regarded as essential consumption\". Baran also introduced the concept of \"planned surplus\"—a category that could only be operationalized in a rationally planned socialist society. This was defined as \"the difference between society's 'optimum' output available in a historically given natural and technological environment under conditions of planned 'optimal' utilization of all available productive resources, and some chosen 'optimal' volume of consumption\".\n\nBaran used the surplus concept to analyze underdeveloped economies (or what are now more optimistically called \"developing economies\") in his \"The Political Economy of Growth\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "762721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762721", "title": "Niels Neergaard", "text": "Niels Neergaard\n\nNiels Thomasius Neergaard (27 June 1854 – 2 September 1936) was a Danish historian and political figure, a member of the Liberal Moderate Venstre and since 1910 of Venstre. He served as Council President of Denmark between 1908 and 1909 as head of the Cabinet of Neergaard I and as both Prime minister of Denmark and Finance Minister from 5 May 1920 to 23 April 1924, leading the Cabinet of Neergaard II and III. His last cabinet office was as Finance Minister (14 December 1926 – 30 April 1929). \n\nHe was born on 27 June 1854.\n\nNeergaard's greatest challenges as a politician were as prime minister and finance minister after the Easter Crisis of 1920, organizing the return of South Jutland to Danish rule and having to deal with the economic crisis brought on by World War I. He also had a significant influence on the content of the Constitution of 1915.\n\nNeergaard's largest work as a historian, \"Under junigrundloven\" (1892-1916), is still considered the primary work on Danish politics 1848-66. In addition to his political activities and work as a historian he also dealt with journalism, and in 1884 he founded a cultural and literary magazine, \"Tilskueren\".\n\nHe died on 2 September 1936.\n"}
{"id": "11001209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11001209", "title": "Paul R. Mendes-Flohr", "text": "Paul R. Mendes-Flohr\n\nPaul R. Mendes-Flohr (born 17 April 1941) is a leading scholar of modern Jewish thought. As an intellectual historian, Mendes-Flohr specializes in 19th and 20th-century Jewish thinkers, including Martin Buber, Franz Rosenzweig, Gershom Scholem and Leo Strauss.\n\nMendes-Flohr holds a doctorate from Brandeis University, which was supervised by Alexander Altmann, Nahum Glatzer, and Ben Halpern. Mendes-Flohr teaches at the University of Chicago, where he is Dorothy Grant Maclear Professor of Modern Jewish History. He is Professor Emeritus of Jewish Thought at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nHe is co-author, with Jehuda Reinharz, of a book for modern Jewish history, \"The Jew in the Modern World: A Documentary History.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "160139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160139", "title": "Post-processual archaeology", "text": "Post-processual archaeology\n\nPost-processual archaeology, which is sometimes alternately referred to as the interpretative archaeologies by its adherents, is a movement in archaeological theory that emphasizes the subjectivity of archaeological interpretations. Despite having a vague series of similarities, post-processualism consists of \"very diverse strands of thought coalesced into a loose cluster of traditions\". Within the post-processualist movement, a wide variety of theoretical viewpoints have been embraced, including structuralism and Neo-Marxism, as have a variety of different archaeological techniques, such as phenomenology.\n\nThe post-processual movement originated in the United Kingdom during the late 1970s and early 1980s, pioneered by archaeologists such as Ian Hodder, Daniel Miller, Christopher Tilley and Peter Ucko, who were influenced by French Marxist anthropology, postmodernism and similar trends in sociocultural anthropology. Parallel developments soon followed in the United States. Initially post-processualism was primarily a reaction to and critique of processual archaeology, a paradigm developed in the 1960s by 'New Archaeologists' such as Lewis Binford, and which had become dominant in Anglophone archaeology by the 1970s. Post-processualism was heavily critical of a key tenet of processualism, namely its assertion that archaeological interpretations could, if the scientific method was applied, come to completely objective conclusions. Post-processualists also criticized previous archaeological work for overemphasizing materialist interpretations of the past and being ethically and politically irresponsible.\n\nIn the United States, archaeologists widely see post-processualism as an accompaniment to the processual movement, while in the United Kingdom, they remain largely thought of as separate and opposing theoretical movements. In other parts of the world, post-processualism has made less of an impact on archaeological thought.\n\nThe post-processualists' approach to archaeology is diametrically opposed to that of the processualists. The processualists, as positivists, believed that the scientific method should and could apply to archaeological investigation, therefore allowing archaeologists to present objective statements about past societies based upon the evidence. Post-processual archaeology, however, questioned this stance, and instead emphasized that archaeology was subjective rather than objective, and that what truth could be ascertained from the archaeological record was often relative to the viewpoint of the archaeologist responsible for unearthing and presenting the data. As the archaeologist Matthew Johnson noted, \"Postprocessualists suggest that we can never confront theory and data; instead, we see data through a cloud of theory.\"\n\nDue to the fact that they believe archaeology to be inherently subjective, post-processualists argue that \"all archaeologists... whether they overtly admit it or not\", always impose their own views and bias into their interpretations of the archaeological data. In many cases, they hold that this bias is political in nature. Post-processualist Daniel Miller believed that the positivist approach of the processualists, in holding that only that which could be sensed, tested and predicted was valid, only sought to produce technical knowledge that facilitated the oppression of ordinary people by elites. In a similar criticism, Miller and Chris Tilley believed that by putting forward the concept that human societies were irresistibly shaped by external influences and pressures, archaeologists were tacitly accepting social injustice. Many processualists took this further and criticised the fact that archaeologists from wealthy, western countries were studying and writing the histories of poorer nations in the second and third worlds. Ian Hodder stated that archaeologists had no right to interpret the prehistories of other ethnic or cultural groups, and that instead they should simply provide individuals from these groups with the ability to construct their own views of the past. While Hodder's viewpoint was not universally accepted among post-processualists, there was enough support for opposing racism, colonialism and professional elitism within the discipline that in 1986 the World Archaeological Congress was established.\n\nA number of post-processualists, such as Michael Shanks, Christopher Tilley and Peter Ucko, undermined \"archaeology's claims to be an authoritative source of knowledge about the past\", thereby \"encourag[ing] people to question and resist all forms of authority… This position was hailed by its supporters as democratizing archaeology and purging it… of elitist pretensions\".\n\nWhereas the processualists had been firm materialists, and the culture-historical archaeologists had, by contrast, been idealists, the post-processualists argued that past societies should be interpreted through both materialist and idealist ideas. As Johnson noted, \"Many postprocessualists claim that we should reject the whole opposition between material and ideal in the first place.\" While recognizing that past societies would have interpreted the world around them in a partially materialistic way, the post-processualists argue that many historic societies have also placed a great emphasis on ideology (which included religion) in both interpreting their world and influencing their behaviour. Examples of this can be seen in the work of Bernard Knapp, who examined how the social elite manipulated ideology to maintain their political and economic control, and of Mike Parker Pearson, who asserted that tools were just as much a product of ideology as were a crown or a law code.\n\nUsing an example to explain this belief in materialist-idealist unity, the archaeologist Matthew Johnson looked at the idea of landscape among past societies. He argued that:\n\nMany, although not all post-processualists have adhered to the theory of structuralism in understanding historical societies. Structuralism itself was a theory developed by the French anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss (1908–2009), and held to the idea that \"cultural patterns need not be caused by anything outside themselves… [and that] underlying every culture was a deep structure, or essence, governed by its own laws, that people were unaware of but which ensured regularities in the cultural productions that emanate from it.\" At the centre of his structuralist theory, Lévi-Strauss held that \"all human thought was governed by conceptual dichotomies, or bilateral oppositions, such as culture/nature, male/female, day/night, and life/death. He believed that the principle of oppositions was a universal characteristic inherent in the human brain, but that each culture was based on a unique selection of oppositions\". This structuralist approach was first taken from anthropology and applied into forms of archaeology by the French archaeologist André Leroi-Gourhan (1911–1986), who used it to interpret prehistoric symbols in his 1964 work, \"Les Religions de Préhistoire\".\n\nWithin the post-processual movement, Ian Hodder became \"the leading exponent of a structuralist approach\". In a 1984 article, he looked at the similarities between the houses and the tombs of Neolithic Europe, and used a structuralist approach as a basis for his ideas on their symbolism. He then went on, in his seminal book \"The Domestication of Europe\" (1990), to use structuralist ideas to come up with his theory that within Neolithic Europe, there was a dichotomy between field (\"agrios\") and house (\"domus\"), with this duality being mediated by a boundary (\"foris\").\n\nPost-processualists have also adopted beliefs regarding human agency, arguing that in other theoretical approaches to archaeology such as cultural-historical and processual, \"the individual is lost\", and humans are therefore portrayed as \"passive dupes who blindly follow social rules.\" Post-processualists instead argue that humans are free agents who in many cases act in their own interests rather than simply following societal rules, and by accepting these ideas, post-processualists argue that society is conflict-driven. Influenced by the sociologist Anthony Giddens (born 1938) and his structuration theory, many post-processualists accepted that most human beings, while knowing and understanding the rules of their society, choose to manipulate them rather than following them obediently. In turn, by bending the societal rules, these rules eventually change.\n\nOther post-processualists have instead taken the view of sociologist Karl Marx (1818–1883) that class conflict was the force for this social change. In this manner they share similarities with Marxist archaeologists. A minority of post-processualists, such as Julian Thomas have however argued that human agency is not a useful aspect for looking at past societies, thereby accepting a culturally determinist position.\n\nPost-processualism places great emphasis on encouraging marginalised groups to interact with archaeology.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, feminist archaeology emerged as adherents of the second wave feminist movement began to argue that women in the archaeological record had been ignored by archaeologists up until that time. According to archaeologist Sam Lucy, \"The agendas of feminist archaeology and post-processualism highlighted the importance of social and political factors on supposedly 'objective' investigation\".\n\nAlthough it would not be actually termed \"post-processual archaeology\" until 1985 (by one of its most prominent proponents, Ian Hodder), an archaeological alternative to processual archaeology had begun to develop during the 1970s. Some had already anticipated the theory's emergence, with the social anthropologist Edmund Leach informing the assembled archaeologists at a 1971 discussion on the topic of \"The Explanation of Culture Change\" held at the University of Sheffield that cultural structuralism, which was then popular among social anthropologists, would soon make its way into the archaeological community.\n\nBruce Trigger, a Canadian archaeologist who produced a seminal study of archaeological theory, identified there as being three main influences upon post-processualism. The first of these was \"the Marxist-inspired social anthropology that had developed in France during the 1960s and already had influenced British social anthropology.\" This, Trigger noted, \"had its roots not in orthodox Marxism but in efforts to combine Marxism and structuralism by anthropologists such as Maurice Godelier, Emmanuel Terray, and Pierre-Phillipe Rey\". The second main influence was postmodernism, which \"emphasized the subjective nature of knowledge and embraced extreme relativism and idealism\". Having originated among the disciplines of comparative literature, literary criticism and culture studies, postmodernist thinking had begun to develop within archaeology. The third influence identified by Trigger was the New cultural anthropology movement within the cultural anthropological discipline, which had arisen after the collapse of Boasian anthropology. The new cultural anthropologists \"denounced studies of cultural evolution as being ethnocentric and intellectually and morally untenable in a multicultural, postcolonial environment.\"\n\nPost-processual archaeology began in Britain during the late 1970s, spearheaded by a number of British archaeologists who had become interested in aspects of French Marxist anthropology. Most prominent among these was Ian Hodder (born 1948), a former processualist who had made a name for himself for his economic analysis of spatial patterns and early development of simulation studies, particularly relating to trade, markets and urbanization in Iron Age and Roman Britain. Having been influenced by the \"New Geography\" and the work of the processualist David Clarke, as his research progressed, he became increasingly sceptical that such models and simulations actually tested or proved anything, coming to the conclusion that a particular pattern in the archaeological record could be produced by a number of different simulated processes, and that there was no way to accurately test which of these alternatives was correct. In effect, he came to believe that even using the processual approach to understanding archaeological data, there were still many different ways that that data could be interpreted, and that therefore radically different conclusions could be put forward by different archaeologists, despite processualism's claim that using the scientific method it could gain objective fact from the archaeological record. As a result of this, Hodder grew increasingly critical of the processualist approach, developing an interest in how culture shaped human behaviour. He was supported in this new endeavour by many of his students, including Matthew Spriggs.\n\nIn 1980 these early post-processualists held a conference at Cambridge University, from which a book was produced, entitled \"Symbolic and Structural Archaeology\" (1982), which was edited by Hodder himself and published by Cambridge University Press. In his introduction to the book, Hodder noted that:\n\nBruce Trigger considered this book to be \"a postprocessual showcase and counterpart to \"New Perspectives in Archaeology\"\", the 1968 book written by American archaeologist Lewis Binford (1931–2011) that helped to launch the processual movement.\n\nPost-processual archaeology developed largely independently among the archaeological community in the United States. As such its primary influence was critical theory, as opposed to the French Marxist anthropology which had been the primary influence upon their British counterparts. Many American archaeologists had begun to recognise issues of bias within the scientific community, and within the processual movement itself which attempted to be scientific. They also began to notice elements of ethnic prejudice within archaeology, particularly in regards to Native American peoples, who had commonly not had a chance to participate in their own heritage management up until the 1990s. Many American archaeologists also began to take note of a gender bias in the archaeological interpretation and in the discipline as a whole, as women had been largely marginalised. The 1980s saw archaeological studies finally being published that dealt with this issue, namely through Joan Gero's paper on \"Gender bias in archaeology: a cross-cultural perspective\" (1983) and Margaret Conkey and Janet Spector's paper on \"Archaeology and the Study of Gender\" (1984). Among the post-processualists, less emphasis was put on correcting class biases in the American archaeological record than had been put into studying gender and ethnic differences. Instead, it was mostly among historical archaeologists (those who study the archaeology of the historic, or literate period of the past), that such investigation into marginalised classes such as workers and slaves took place.\n\nAs the archaeologists Colin Renfrew and Paul Bahn noted, \"For its most severe critics, [post-processualism], while making a number of valid criticisms, simply developed some of the ideas and theoretical problems introduced by [processualism]. To these critics it brought in a variety of approaches from other disciplines, so that the term \"postprocessual,\" while rather neatly echoing the epithet \"postmodern\" in literary studies, was a shade arrogant in presuming to supersede what it might quite properly claim to complement.\"\n\nIn their article \"Processual Archaeology and the Radical Critique\" (1987), Timothy K. Earle and Robert W. Preucel examined the post-processual movement's \"radical critique\" of processualism, and while accepting that it had some merit and highlighted some important points, they came to the conclusion that on the whole, the post-processual approach was flawed because it failed to produce an explicit methodology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15610222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15610222", "title": "Praxagoras of Athens", "text": "Praxagoras of Athens\n\nPraxagoras of Athens was a pagan historian in the early 4th century AD.\n\nHe was born in Athens and wrote three historical works, which are all lost: a history of the \"Kings of Athens\", a history of Alexander the Great, and a panegyric biography of the emperor Constantine. A few fragments of the biography of Constantine are preserved in the \"Bibliotheca\" of Photius (cod. 62).\n\nDindorf's 1870 Minor Greek Historians Praxagoras' fragments start on page 438.\n\n"}
{"id": "11075690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11075690", "title": "Responsibility for the Holocaust", "text": "Responsibility for the Holocaust\n\nResponsibility for the Holocaust is the subject of an ongoing historical debate that has spanned several decades. The debate about the origins of the Holocaust is known as functionalism versus intentionalism. Intentionalists such as Lucy Dawidowicz argue that Adolf Hitler planned the extermination of the Jewish people as early as 1918, and that he personally oversaw its execution. However, Functionalists such as Raul Hilberg argue that the extermination plans evolved in stages, as a result of initiatives by bureaucrats who were responding to other policy failures. The debate has settled to a large degree as historians have conceded that both positions have merit.\n\nThe primary responsibility for the Holocaust rests on Hitler, and the Nazi Party leadership, but initiatives to persecute Jews, Gypsies, and others were also perpetrated by the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS), the German military, ordinary German citizens, as well as by collaborationist members of various European governments, including their military personnel and civilians alike. A host of factors contributed to the environment under which atrocities were committed across the continent, ranging from general racism (including anti-semitism), religious hatred, blind obedience, political opportunism, coercion, profiteering, and xenophobia. \nThe enormity of the Holocaust has prompted much analysis. The Holocaust has been characterized as a project of industrial extermination. This led authors such as Enzo Traverso to argue in \"The Origins of Nazi Violence\" that Auschwitz was explicitly a product of Western civilization originating from medieval religious and racial persecution that brought together a \"particular kind of stigmatization...rethought in the light of colonial wars and genocides.\" Beginning his book with a description of the guillotine, which according to him marks the entry of the Industrial Revolution into capital punishment, he writes: \"Through an irony of history, the theories of Frederick Taylor\" (taylorism) were applied by a totalitarian system to serve \"not production, but extermination.\"\n\nOthers like Russell Jacoby contend that the Holocaust is a product of German history with deep roots in German society ranging from, \"German authoritarianism, feeble liberalism, brash nationalism or virulent anti-Semitism. From A. J. P. Taylor's \"The Course of German History\" fifty-five years ago to Daniel Goldhagen's controversial work, \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\", Nazism is understood as the outcome of a long history of uniquely German traits\". While some claim that the specificity of the Holocaust was also rooted in the constant antisemitism from which Jews had been the target since the foundation of Christianity, intellectual historian George Mosse argued that the extreme form of European racism that led to the Holocaust fully emerged in the eighteenth century. Others argue that pseudo-scientific racist theories were elaborated upon in order to justify white supremacy, and that they were accompanied by the Darwinian belief in the survival of the fittest and eugenic notions of racial hygiene—particularly within the German scientific community.\n\nThe question of overall responsibility for the atrocities committed under the Nazi regime traverses the oligarchy of those in command, foremost among them Adolf Hitler. In October 1939, he authorized the first Nazi mass killing for those labeled \"undesirables\" in the T-4 Euthanasia Program. The Nazis termed such people as being \"Lives unworthy of life.\" or \"lebensunwertes Leben\" in German. Before the euthanasia program in Germany-proper was over, the Nazis killed between 65,000–70,000 persons. Historian Henry Friedlander calls this period during which the 70,000 adults were killed, the \"first phase\" of the T4 Program since the program and its contributors precipitated the Holocaust. Sometime between late June 1940 when planning for Operation Barbarossa first started and March 1941, orders were approved by Hitler for the re-establishment of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" (the surviving historical record does not permit firm conclusions to be drawn about the precise date). Hitler encouraged the killings of the Jews of Eastern Europe by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" death squads in a speech of July 1941. Evidence suggests that in the fall of 1941, \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler and Hitler agreed in principle on the complete mass extermination of the Jews of Europe by gassing, with Hitler explicitly ordering the \"annihilation of the Jews\" in a speech on 12 December 1941, by which time the Jewish populations in the Baltic states had been effectively eliminated. To make for smoother intra-governmental cooperation in the implementation of this so-called \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\", the Wannsee conference was held near Berlin on 20 January 1942, with the participation of fifteen senior officials, led by Reinhard Heydrich and Adolf Eichmann; the records of which provide the best evidence of the central planning of the Holocaust. Just five weeks later on 22 February, Hitler was recorded saying to his closest associates: \"We shall regain our health only by eliminating the Jew.\"\n\nUpwards of three-hundred Jewish organizations attempted to provide information to U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt about the persecution of Jews in Europe, but the ethnic and cultural diversity of American immigrant Jewish communities and their comparative lack of political power in the U.S. hindered their ability to influence policy. Various strategies, such as ransoming Jews following the Anschluss of 1938, failed for a host of reasons, not to exclude the unwillingness and inability of Jewish communities in the U.S. to extend financial aid to their suffering brethren. Clear evidence exists that Winston Churchill was privy to intelligence reports derived from decoded German transmissions in August 1941, during which he stated:\n\nDuring the early years of the war, the Polish government-in-exile published documents and organised meetings to spread word about the fate of the Jews (see Witold Pilecki's Report). In the summer of 1942, a Jewish labor organization (the Bund) leader, Leon Feiner got word to London that 700,000 Polish Jews had already died. The \"Daily Telegraph\" published it on 25 June 1942, and the BBC took the story seriously, though the U.S. State Department doubted it. \n\nOn 10 August 1942, the Riegner Telegram to New York described the Nazi plan to murder all the Jews in the occupied states by deporting them to concentration camps in the east, to be exterminated in one blow, possibly by prussic acid, starting at autumn 1942. It was released in the United States by Stephen Wise of the World Jewish Congress in November 1942 after a long wait for permission from the government. This led to attempts by Jewish organizations to put President Roosevelt under pressure to act on behalf of the European Jews, many of whom had tried in vain to enter either Britain or the U.S.\n\nReports were also coming into Palestine about the German atrocities during the autumn of 1942. The allies received a detailed eyewitness account from Polish resistance fighter and later Georgetown University professor, Jan Karski. On 10 December 1942, the Polish government-in-exile published a 16-page report addressed to the Allied governments, titled \"The Mass Extermination of Jews in German Occupied Poland\". \n\nOn 17 December 1942, as the answer to Raczyński's Note, the Allies issued the \"Joint Declaration by Members of the United Nations\", a formal declaration confirming and condemning Nazi extermination policy toward the Jews and describing the ongoing events of the Holocaust in Nazi-occupied Europe. The statement was read to British House of Commons in a floor speech by Foreign secretary Anthony Eden.\n\nThe death camps were discussed between American and British leaders at the Bermuda Conference in April 1943. On 12 May 1943, Polish government-in-exile member and Bund leader Szmul Zygielbojm committed suicide in London to protest the inaction of the world with regard to the Holocaust, stating in part in his suicide letter:\n\nThe large camps near Auschwitz were finally surveyed by plane in April 1944. While all important German cities and production centers were bombed by Allied forces until the end of the war, no attempt was made to interdict the system of mass annihilation by destroying pertinent structures or train tracks, even though Churchill was a proponent of bombing parts of the Auschwitz complex. The US State Department was aware of the use and the location of the gas chambers of extermination camps, but refused to bomb them. Throughout the war, Britain pressed European leaders to prevent \"illegal\" Jewish immigration and sent ships to block the sea-route to Palestine (from which Britain withdrew in 1948), turning back many refugees.\n\nDebate continues on how much average Germans knew about the Holocaust. Robert Gellately, a historian at Oxford University, conducted a widely respected survey of the German media before and during the war and concluded that there was substantial participation and consent from large numbers of ordinary Germans in various aspects of the Holocaust, that German civilians frequently saw columns of slave laborers, and that the basics of the concentration camps, if not the extermination camps, were widely known. The German scholar, Peter Longerich, in a study looking at what Germans knew about the mass murders concluded that: \"General information concerning the mass murder of Jews was widespread in the German population.\"\n\nThe British Historian Nicholas Stargardt presents evidence of widespread knowledge, agreement and collusion in the destruction of European Jewry, as well of the insane, feeble, disabled, Poles, Roma and other nationals. His evidence includes speeches by Nazi leaders, which were broadcast or heard by a wide audience that included mention or inferences concerning the plans to destroy the Jews, along with letters written between soldiers and their families describing the slaughter. Historian Claudia Koonz relates how reports from the Nazi security services (SD) described public opinion as favorable where it concerned the killing of Jews. Using these same SD reports from the war years, along with a great many memoirs, diaries, and other descriptive material, historian Lawrence D. Stokes concluded that much, although not all, of the terror inflicted on the Jewish people was generally understood in the German public. Marliss Steinert came to an opposite conclusion through his own studies, contending that only a few were aware of the immense scale of the atrocities. French historian, Christian Ingrao, reminds readers that one must take into consideration the possible extent to which SD reports were manipulated by the Nazi propaganda machine when reviewing them. \n\nHistorians Eric Johnson and Karl-Heinz Reuband conducted interviews with more than 3,000 Germans and 500 German Jews about daily life in the Third Reich. From the Jewish questionnaires, the authors found that German society was not nearly as rife with anti-Semitism as one might otherwise have believed, but this changed dramatically with Hitler's ascension to power. German Jews claimed that they knew of the Holocaust from a wide range of sources, which included radio broadcasts from Italy and what they heard from friends or acquaintances, but they did not know details until 1943. Responses from non-Jewish Germans indicate that \"the majority of Germans identified with the Nazi regime.\" Contrary to many other accounts and/or historical interpretations, which portray rule under the Nazis as terrifying for German citizens, most of the German respondents who participated in the interviews stated that they never really feared arrest from the Gestapo. Concerning the mass murder of the Jews, the survey results were contingent to some degree on geography, but roughly 27–29% of Germans had information about the Holocaust at some point before the war's end, and another 10–13% suspected something terrible was happening all along. Based on this information, Johnson and Reuband surmise that one-in-three Germans either heard or knew that the Holocaust was taking place before the end of the war from sources which included family members, friends, neighbors or professional colleagues. Johnson suggests (in disagreement with his co-author) that it is more likely that about 50% of the German population were aware of the atrocities being committed against the Jewish people and other enemies identified by the Nazi regime.\n\nDuring the years 1945 through 1949, polls indicated that a majority of Germans felt that Nazism was a \"good idea, badly applied\". In a poll conducted in the American German occupation zone, 37% replied that 'the extermination of the Jews and Poles and other non-Aryans was necessary for the security of Germans'. Sarah Ann Gordon in \"Hitler, Germans, and the Jewish Question\" notes that the surveys are very difficult to draw conclusions from as respondents were given only three options from which to choose: (1) Hitler was right in his treatment of the Jews, to which 0% agreed; (2) Hitler went too far in his treatment of the Jews, but something had to be done to keep them in bounds - 19% agreed; and (3) The actions against the Jews were in no way justified - 77% agreed. She also noted that another revealing example emerges from the question whether an Aryan who marries a Jew should be condemned, a question to which 91% of the respondents answered \"No\". To the question: \"All those who ordered the murder of civilians or participated in the murders should be made to stand trial\", 94% responded \"Yes\". Historian Tony Judt highlights how denazification and the subsequent fear of retribution from the Allies likely obscured justice due to some of the perpetrators and camouflaged underlying societal truths.\n\nPublic recollection from Germans about the atrocities was also \"marginalized by postwar reconstruction and diplomacy\" according to historian Nicholas Wachsmann; a delay, which obscured the complexities of understanding both the Holocaust and the concentration camps that aided in its facilitation. Wachsmann notes how the German people often claimed that the crimes occurred behind their backs and were perpetrated by Nazi fanatics, or that they frequently dodged responsibility by equating their suffering with that of the prisoners, avowing they too had been victimized by the National Socialist regime. Initially the memory of the Holocaust was repressed and set aside, but eventually the young Federal Republic of Germany commenced its own investigations and trials. Political pressure on the prosecutors and judges tempered any extensive probes and very few systematic investigations in the first decade after the war took place. Later research efforts in Germany revealed that there were a \"myriad\" of links between the wider population and the SS camps. In Austria—once part of the Greater German Reich of the Nazis—the situation was much different, as they conveniently evaded accountability through the trope of being the Nazi's first foreign victim.\n\nDuring the perpetration of the Holocaust, participants came from all over Europe but the impetus for the pogroms was provided by German and Austrian Nazis. According to Holocaust historian, Raul Hilberg, the \"anti-Jewish work\" of the regime was \"carried out in the civil service, the military, business, and the party\" where \"every specialization was utilized\" and \"every stratum of society was represented in the envelopment of the victims.\" Sobibor death camp guard Werner Debois stated:\n\nIn an entry in the Friedrich Kellner diary, \"My Opposition\", dated 28 October 1941, the German justice inspector recorded a conversation he had in Laubach with a German soldier who had witnessed a massacre in Poland. Nazi bankers at the Paris branch of Barclays Bank volunteered the names of their Jewish employees to Nazi authorities, and many of them ended up in the death camps. An insightful perspective is provided by Konnilyn G. Feig, who wrote:\n\nAdditional scholars also point out that a wide range of German soldiers, officials, and civilians were in some way involved in the Holocaust, from clerks and officials in the government to units of the army, police, and the SS. Many ministries, including those of armaments, interior, justice, railroads, and foreign affairs, had substantial roles in orchestrating the Holocaust; similarly, German physicians participated in medical experiments and the T-4 euthanasia program as did civil servants; German physicians also made the selections as to who was fit to work and who would die at the concentration camps. Though there was no single department in charge of the Holocaust, the SS and Waffen-SS under Himmler had a leading role and operated with military efficiency in killing enemies of the Nazi state. From the SS came the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" concentration camp guard units, the \"Einsatzgruppen\" killing squads, and the main administrative offices behind the Holocaust, including the RSHA and WVHA. The regular army participated in the atrocities along with the SS on some occasions by taking part in the massacre of Jews in the Soviet Union, Serbia, Poland, and Greece. The German Army also logistically supported the \"Einsatzgruppen\", helped form the ghettos, ran prison camps, occasionally provided concentration camp guards, transported prisoners to camps, had medical experiments performed on prisoners, and substantially used slave labor. Significant numbers of Wehrmacht soldiers accompanied the SS in their macabre tasks or provided other forms of support for killing operations. The killings by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" required cooperation between the \"Einsatzgruppen\" chief and Wehrmacht unit commander so they could coordinate and control access to and from the execution grounds.\n\nStanley Milgram was one of a number of post-war psychologists and sociologists who tried to address why people obeyed immoral orders in the Holocaust. Milgram's findings demonstrated that reasonable people, when instructed by a person in a position of authority, obeyed commands entailing what they believed to be the suffering of others. After making his results public, Milgram sparked direct critical response in the scientific community by claiming that \"a common psychological process is centrally involved in both\" his laboratory experiments and the Holocaust. Professor James Waller, Chair of Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Keene State College, formerly Chair of Whitworth College Psychology Department, expressed the opinion that Milgram experiments \"do not correspond well\" to the Holocaust events:\n\nIn the opinion of Thomas Blass—who is the author of a scholarly monograph on the experiment (\"The Man Who Shocked The World\") published in 2004—the historical evidence pertaining to actions of the Holocaust perpetrators speaks louder than words:\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages in Europe, Jews were subjected to antisemitism based on Christian theology, which blamed them for rejecting and killing Jesus. Numerous attempts were made by early Christians to convert the Jews to Christianity in the collective, but when they refused, this made them into a \"pariah\" to many Europeans. The consequences for this resistance to Christianity were varied. There were an extensive series of attacks against Jews during the religious fervor accompanying the First and Second Crusades (1095–1149). Jews were slaughtered in the wake of the Italian famine (1315–1317), attacked following the outbreak of the Black Death in the Rhineland in 1347, expelled from both England and Italy in the 1290s, from France in 1306 and 1394, from Spain and Portugal in 1492 and 1497. By the time of the Reformation in the 16th century, historian Peter Hayes stresses that \"hatred of Jews was widespread\" throughout Europe.\n\nMartin Luther (a German leader of the Protestant Reformation) made a specific written call for harsh persecution of the Jewish people in \"On the Jews and Their Lies\", published in 1543. In it, he urged that Jewish synagogues and schools be set on fire, prayer books destroyed, rabbis forbidden to preach, homes razed, and property and money confiscated. Luther argued that Jews should be shown no mercy or kindness, should have no legal protection, and that these \"poisonous envenomed worms\" should be drafted into forced labor or expelled for all time. American historian Lucy Dawidowicz asserted in her book \"The War Against the Jews\" that a clear path of anti-Semitism passes from Luther to Hitler and that \"modern German anti-Semitism is the bastard child of Christian anti-Semitism and German nationalism.\" Even after the Reformation, Catholics and Lutherans continued to persecute Jews, accusing them of blood libels and subjecting them to pogroms and expulsions. The second half of the 19th century saw the emergence of the \"Völkisch\" movement in Germany and Austria-Hungary, which was developed and incentivized by authors like Houston Stewart Chamberlain and Paul de Lagarde. The movement presented a pseudo-scientific, biologically based form of racism that viewed Jews as a race whose members were locked in mortal combat with the Aryan race for world domination.\n\nSome authors, such as liberal philosopher Hannah Arendt in \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\" (1951), Swedish writer Sven Lindqvist, historian Hajo Holborn, and Ugandan academic, Mahmood Mandani, have also linked the Holocaust to colonialism, but moreover, place the tragedy into the context of the European tradition of anti-Semitism and the genocide of colonized peoples. Arendt claimed for instance that nationalism and imperialism were literally bridged together by racism. Pseudo-scientific theories elaborated upon during the 19th century (e.g. Arthur de Gobineau's 1853 \"Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\") were fundamental in preparing the conditions for the Holocaust according to some scholars. While other historical incidences of wholesale slaughter exist, there are still scholars who remain adamant about the \"uniqueness\" of the Holocaust, as compared to other genocides. Philosopher Michel Foucault also traced the origins of the Holocaust to \"racial policies\" and \"state racism\", which are subsumed within the framework of \"biopolitics\".\n\nThe Nazis considered it their duty to overcome natural compassion and execute orders for what they believed to be higher ideals; members of the SS in particular, perceived that they had a state-legitimized mandate and obligation to eliminate those perceived as racial enemies. Crowd psychology has been attributed to some of the heinous acts committed by the Nazis and Gustave Le Bon's \"The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind\" (1895) provided influence to Hitler's infamous tome, \"Mein Kampf\", Le Bon claimed that Hitler and the Nazis used propaganda to deliberately shape group-think and related behaviors, especially in cases where people committed otherwise aberrant violent acts due to the anonymity resultant from being a member of the collective. Sadistic acts of this sort were notable in the case of the genocide committed by members of the Croatian Ustashe, whose enthusiasm and sadism in their killings of Serbs appalled the Italians and Germans to the point that the German Army field police \"moved in and disarmed them\" at one point. One might describe the behavior of the Croatians as a sort of quasi-religious eliminationist opportunism, but this same thing might be said of the Germans, whose anti-Semitism was likewise religious and racialist in nomenclature.\n\nA controversy erupted in 1997 when historian Daniel Goldhagen argued in \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\" that ordinary Germans were knowing and willing participants in the Holocaust, which he writes, had its roots in a deep racially motivated eliminationist antisemitism that was uniquely manifested in German society. Historians who disagree with Goldhagen's thesis argue that, while antisemitism undeniably existed in Germany, Goldhagen's idea of a uniquely German \"eliminationist\" version is untenable.\n\nA major issue in contemporary Holocaust studies is the question of \"functionalism\" versus \"intentionalism\". The terms were coined during the Cumberland Lodge Conference of May 1979 entitled, \"The National Socialist Regime and German Society\" by British Marxist historian Timothy Mason to describe two schools of thought about the origins of the Holocaust.\n\nIntentionalists hold that the Holocaust was the result of a long-term masterplan on the part of Hitler, and that he was the driving force behind it. Functionalists hold that Hitler was antisemitic, but that he did not have a masterplan for genocide. They see the Holocaust as coming from the ranks of the German bureaucracy, with little or no involvement on the part of Hitler. Within the content of Hitler biographies written by Joachim Fest and Alan Bullock, one encounters a \"Hitler-centric explanation of genocide\" even though other psycho-historians like Rudolph Binion, Walter Langer, and Robert Waite raised issues about Hitler's ability to make rational decisions; his anti-Semitism remained nonetheless unquestioned, the latter authors merely juxtaposed it against his general mental health.\n\nHistorian and intentionalist Lucy Dawidowicz argues that the Holocaust was planned by Hitler from the very beginning of his political career, traceable back to his traumatic experience at the end of the First World War. Other intentionalists, such as Andreas Hillgruber, Karl Dietrich Bracher, and Klaus Hildebrand, have suggested that Hitler had decided upon the Holocaust sometime in the early 1920s. Historian Eberhard Jäckel postulates that the extermination order placed upon the Jews may have occurred during the summer of 1940. Another intentionalist historian, the American Arno J. Mayer, argued that Hitler first ordered the mass murder of the Jews in December 1941, due principally to the failed Blitzkrieg against the Soviet Union. Saul Friedländer has argued that Hitler was an extreme anti-Semite early on and drove Nazi policy to exterminate the Jews, but he also recognizes the technocratic rationality of the regime that helped bring Hitler's ideological goals to fruition. While others, like Gerhard Weinberg, remain in the intentionalist camp and see Hitler's part as essential to the unfolding of the Final Solution—he also points out the importance of Nazi ideological imperatives such as the Wannsee Conference, and like many scholars, demonstrates that there is still \"much to be discovered and learned.\"\n\nFunctionalists such as Hans Mommsen, Martin Broszat, Götz Aly, Raul Hilberg, and Christopher Browning hold that the Holocaust was started in 1941–1942 either as a result of the failure of the Nazi deportation policy and/or the impending military losses in Russia. Functionalists contend that what some see as extermination fantasies outlined in Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" and other Nazi literature were simply propaganda and did not constitute concrete plans. In \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler repeatedly states his inexorable hatred of the Jewish people, but nowhere does he proclaim his intention to exterminate them. They also argue that, in the 1930s, Nazi policy aimed at making life so unpleasant for German Jews that they would leave Germany. Adolf Eichmann was in charge of facilitating Jewish emigration by whatever means possible from 1937 until 23 October 1941, when German Jews were forbidden to leave. Functionalists see the SS's support in the late 1930s for Zionist groups as the preferred solution to the \"Jewish Question\" as another sign that there was no master-plan for genocide. Essentially the view of functionalists concerning the Holocaust is that it came about via improvisation as opposed to deliberate planning.\n\nTo that end, functionalists argue that, in German documents from 1939 to 1941, the term \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\" was meant to be a \"territorial solution\"; that is, the entire Jewish population was to be expelled somewhere far from Germany. At first, the SS planned to create a gigantic Jewish reservation in the Lublin, Poland area, but the so-called \"Lublin Plan\" was vetoed by Hans Frank, the Governor-General of occupied Poland, who refused to allow the SS to ship any more Jews to the Lublin area after November 1939. The reason Frank vetoed the \"Lublin Plan\" was not due to any humane motives, but rather because he was opposed to the SS \"dumping\" Jews into the Government-General. In 1940, the SS and the German Foreign Office had the so-called \"Madagascar Plan\" to deport the entire Jewish population of Europe to a \"reservation\" on Madagascar. The \"Madagascar Plan\" was canceled because Germany could not defeat the UK and until the British blockade was broken, the \"Madagascar Plan\" could not be put into effect. Finally, functionalist historians have made much of a memorandum written by Himmler in May 1940 explicitly rejecting extermination of the entire peoples as \"un-German\" and recommending to Hitler instead, the \"Madagascar Plan\" as the preferred \"territorial solution\" to the \"Jewish Question\". Not until July 1941 did the term \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\" come to mean extermination.\n\nRecently, a synthesis of the two schools has emerged that has been championed by diverse historians such as the Canadian historian Michael Marrus, the Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer, and the British historian Ian Kershaw that contends Hitler was the driving force behind the Holocaust, but that he did not have a long-term plan and that much of the initiative for the Holocaust came from below in an effort to meet Hitler's perceived wishes. As historian Omer Bartov relates, \"the \"intentionalists\" and \"functionalists\" have gradually come closer, as further research now seems to indicate that the more extreme new interpretations are just as impossible to sustain as the traditional ones.\"\n\nMost historians take the view that Hitler was the opposite of a pragmatist: his overriding obsession was hatred of the Jews, and he showed on a number of occasions that he was willing to risk losing the war to achieve their destruction. There is no \"smoking gun\" in the form of a document which shows Hitler ordering the Final Solution. Hitler did not have a bureaucratic mind and many of his most important instructions were given orally. There is ample documentary evidence however, that Hitler desired to eradicate Jewry and that the order to do so originated from him, including the authorization for mass deportations of the Jews to the east beginning in October 1941. He cannot have imagined that these hundreds of thousands of Jews would be housed, clothed, and fed by the authorities of the Government-General, and in fact Hans Frank frequently complained that he could not cope with the influx.\n\nHistorian Paul Johnson writes that some writers, such as David Irving, have claimed that because there were no written orders, \"the Final Solution was Himmler's work and […] Hitler not only did not order it but did not even know it was happening.\" Johnson states, however, that \"this argument will not stand up. The administration of the Third Reich was often chaotic but its central principle was clear enough: all key decisions emanated from Hitler.\"\nAccording to Kershaw, \"Hitler's authority – most probably given as verbal consent to propositions usually put to him by Himmler – stood behind every decision of magnitude and significance.\" Hitler continued to be closely involved in the \"Final Solution.\" Kershaw also points out that, \"in the wake of the German military crisis following the catastrophe at Stalingrad\" that \"Hitler took a direct hand\" in convincing his Hungarian and Romanian allies \"sharpen the persecution\" of the Jews. Hitler's role in the Final Solution was often indirect rather than overt, frequently granting approval rather than initiating. The unparalleled outpourings of hatred were a constant even amid all the policy shifts of the Nazis. They often had a propaganda or mobilizing motive, and usually remained generalized. Even so, Kershaw remains adamant that Hitler's role was decisive and indispensable in the unfolding of the \"Final Solution.\"\n\nIn a letter dated 1919 Hitler mentions that part of the ultimate aim of a strong national government must \"unshakably be the removal of the Jews\".\n\nIn 1922 Hitler told Major Josef Hell (a journalist at the time):\n\nOn 21 January 1939 Hitler spoke with František Chvalkovský and said:\n\nOn 30 January at the Sports Palace in Berlin, Hitler told the crowd:\n\nIn Mein Kampf, Hitler argued that a war against Jews would have saved Germany from losing World War I.\n\nIn the following widely cited speech made on 30 January 1939, Hitler says to the Reichstag:\n\nAccording to historian Klaus Hildebrand, moral responsibility for the Holocaust resides with Hitler and was nothing less than the culmination of his pathological hatred of the Jews, which for all intents and purposes formed the basis of Nazi genocide and drove the regime to pursue its racial-eliminationist goals. Whether or not Hitler never gave a direct order for the implementation of the Final Solution is immaterial and nothing more than a \"red herring\", which fails to recognize Hitler's leadership style, particularly since his verbal commands were sufficient to launch initiatives—due largely to the fact that his subordinates were always \"working towards the Führer\" in an effort to implement \"his totalitarian vision\" even in cases \"without written authority.\" Throughout Gerald Fleming's notable work, \"Hitler and the Final Solution,\" he demonstrates that on numerous occasions, Himmler mentioned a \"Führer-Order\" concerning the annihilation of the Jews, which indicates that at the very least, Hitler verbally issued a command on the subject. \n\nJournal entries from Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels support the position that Hitler was the driving force behind the destruction of the Jews as well; Goebbels wrote that Hitler followed the subject closely and described the Führer as \"uncompromising\" about eliminating the Jews. As historian David Welch asserts, if one takes the scale of the logistical operations that the Holocaust comprised (in the middle of a worldwide war) into consideration alone, it is nearly impossible that the extermination of so many people and the coordination of such an extensive effort could have occurred without Hitler's authorization.\n\nWhile significant numbers of Germans and other Europeans collectively participated in the Holocaust, it was Hitler and his Nazi paladins who share the greatest responsibility for incentivizing, coercing, and/or overseeing the extermination of millions of people. Among those most responsible for the Final Solution were Heinrich Himmler, Reinhard Heydrich, Odilo Globocnik, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Adolf Eichmann, Heinrich Müller, and Oswald Pohl. Key roles were also played by Fritz Sauckel, Hans Frank, Wilhelm Frick and Robert Ley.\n\nOther top Nazi leaders such as Goebbels, Hermann Göring, and Martin Bormann contributed in various ways, whether administratively supporting killing efforts or providing ideological fodder to encourage the Holocaust. For example, Goebbels carried on an intensive antisemitic propaganda campaign and also had frequent discussions with Hitler about the fate of the Jews, when they met. He was aware throughout that the Jews were being exterminated, and completely supported this decision. In July 1941, Göring issued a memo to Heydrich ordering him to organise the practical details of a solution to the \"Jewish Question\". This led to the Wannsee Conference held on 20 January 1942, where Heydrich formally announced that genocide of the Jews of Europe was now official Reich policy. That same year, Bormann signed the decree of 9 October 1942 prescribing that the permanent Final Solution in Greater Germany could no longer be solved by emigration, but only by the use of \"ruthless force in the special camps of the East\", that is, extermination in Nazi death camps.\n\nAlthough the Nazi regime is often depicted as a super-centralized vertically hierarchical state, individual initiative was an important element in how Nazi Germany functioned. Millions of people were rounded up, bureaucratically processed and transported across Europe due to the vigorous initiative of those Nazis most committed to carrying out their duties to the state, an operation involving thousands of officials and a great deal of paperwork. This was a coordinated effort among the SS and its sprawling police apparatus with the Reich ministries and the national railways, all under the supervision of the Nazi Party. Most of the Party's regional leaders (\"Gauleiters\") also knew of the Holocaust since many were present for Himmler's October 1943 speech at Posen, during which he explicitly mentioned the extermination of the Jews.\n\nThe extent to which the officers of the regular German military knew of the Final Solution has been much debated. Political imperatives in postwar Germany led to the army being generally absolved from responsibility, apart from the handful of \"Nazi generals\" such as Alfred Jodl and Wilhelm Keitel who were tried and hanged at Nuremberg. There is an abundance of evidence, however, that the top officers of the Wehrmacht certainly knew about the killings and in a number of instances, approved and/or sanctioned them. The exhibit \"War of Extermination: The Crimes of the Wehrmacht\" showed the extent to which the military was involved in the Holocaust.\n\nIt was particularly difficult for commanders on the eastern front to avoid knowing what was happening in the areas behind the front. Many individual soldiers photographed the massacres of Jews by the \"Einsatzgruppen\". Some generals and officers, such as Walther von Reichenau, Erich Hoepner, and Erich von Manstein, actively supported the work of the \"Einsatzgruppen\". A number of Wehrmacht units provided direct or indirect assistance to the \"Einsatzgruppen\"—all the while mentally normalizing amoral behaviors in the conduct of war through specious justification that they were destroying the Reich's enemies. Many individual soldiers who ventured to the killing sites behind the lines voluntarily participated in the mass shootings. Cooperation between the SS police units and Wehrmacht also occurred when they took hostages and carried out reprisals against partisans, particularly in the Eastern theater, where the war took on the complexion of a racial war as opposed to the conventional one being fought in the West.\n\nOther front-line officers went through the war without coming into direct contact with the machinery of extermination, choosing to focus narrowly on their duties and not noticing the wider context of the war. On 20 July 1942, an extermination unit under the command of Walther Rauff was sent to Tobruk and assigned to the Afrika Korps led by Erwin Rommel. However, since Rommel was 500 km away at the First Battle of El Alamein, it is unlikely that the two were able to meet. The plans for \"Einsatzgruppe\" Egypt were set aside after the Allied victory at the Second Battle of El Alamein. Historian Jean-Christoph Caron opines that there is no evidence that Rommel knew of or would have supported Rauff's mission. Relations between some Army commanders and the SS were not friendly, as officers occasionally refused to co-operate with Himmler's forces; General Johannes Blaskowitz for instance, was relieved of his command after officially protesting about SS atrocities in Poland. Such behaviors were uncommon however, as a significant portion of the German military acculturated to the norms of the Nazi regime and the SS in particular, and were likewise censurable for carrying out atrocities during the course of the Second World War.\n\nAlthough the Holocaust was planned and directed by Germans, the Nazi regime found willing collaborators in other countries, both those allied to Germany and those under German occupation and by 1942, the atrocities across the continent became a \"pan-European program.\" The civil service and police of the Vichy regime in occupied France actively collaborated in persecuting French Jews. Germany's allies, Italy, Finland, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria, were all pressured to introduce anti-Jewish measures. Bulgaria refused to co-operate, and all 50,000 Bulgarian Jews survived (though most lost their possessions and many were imprisoned), but thousands of Greek and Yugoslavian Jews were deported from the Bulgarian-occupied territories. Finland officially refused to participate in the Holocaust and only 7 out of 300 Jewish alien refugees were turned over to the Germans. The Hungarian regime of Miklós Horthy also refused to cooperate until the German invasion of Hungary of 1944, after which its 750,000 Jews were no longer safe. Between May through July 1944, upwards of 437,000 Jews were deported from Hungary to Auschwitz. The Romanian regime of Ion Antonescu actively persecuted Jews, and while they were inefficient, 120,000 or more Jews were killed. The German puppet regime in Croatia actively persecuted Jews on its own initiative.\n\nThe Nazis sought to enlist support for their programs in all the countries they occupied, although their recruitment methods differed in various countries according to Nazi racial theories. In the \"Nordic\" countries of Denmark, Norway, Netherlands, and Estonia they tried to recruit young men into the Waffen-SS, with sufficient success to create the \"Wiking\" SS division on the Eastern Front, many of whose members fought for Germany with great fanaticism until the end of the war. In Lithuania and Ukraine, on the other hand, they recruited large numbers of auxiliary troops that were used for anti-partisan work and guard duties at extermination and concentration camps.\n\nIn recent years, the extent of local collaboration with the Nazis in Eastern Europe has become more apparent. Historian Alan Bullock writes: \"The opening of the archives both in the Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe has produced incontrovertible evidence [of] ... collaboration on a much bigger scale than hitherto realized of Ukrainians and Lithuanians as well as Hungarians, Croats and Slovaks in the deportation and murder of Jews.\" Historians have been examining the question whether it is fair to connote the Holocaust as a European Project. Historian Dieter Pohl has estimated that more than 200,000 non-Germans \"prepared, carried out and assisted in acts of murder\"; that is about the same number as Germans and Austrians. Such numbers have elicited a similar reaction from other historians; Götz Aly for instance, has come to the conclusion that the Holocaust was in fact a \"European project.\" While the Holocaust was perpetrated at the urging of the Nazis and constituted part of the SS vision for a \"pan-European racial community\", the subsequent outbursts of anti-Semitic violence in Croatia, France, Romania, Slovakia, the Baltic states among others, make the catastrophe a \"European project\" according to historian Dan Stone.\n\nIn Belgium the state has been accused of having actively collaborated with Nazi Germany. An official 2007 report commissioned by the Belgian senate concluded that the Belgians were indeed complicit for participating in the Holocaust. According to the report, the Belgian authorities \"adopted a docile attitude providing collaboration unworthy of a democracy in its treatment of Jews.\" The report also identified three crucial moments that showed the attitude of Belgian authorities toward the Jews: (1) During the autumn of 1940 when they complied with the order of the German occupier to register all Jews even though it was contrary to the Belgium constitution; this led to a number of measures including the firing of all Jews from official positions in December 1940 and the expelling of all Jewish children from their schools in December 1941; (2) In summer 1942, when over one thousand Jews were deported to the death camps, particularly Auschwitz during the month of August. This was only the first of such actions as the deportations to the east continued resulting in the death of some 25,000 people; and (3) At the end of 1945, the Belgian state officials decided that its authorities bore no legal responsibility for the persecution of the Jews, even though many Belgian police officers participated in the rounding up and deportation of Jews.\n\nHowever, collaboration is not the whole story. While there is little doubt that there were strong antisemitic feelings in Belgium, after November 1942, the German roundups became less successful as large-scale rescue operations were carried out by ordinary Belgians. This resulted in the survival of about 25,000 Jews from Belgium. Unlike other states, which were immediately annexed, Belgium was initially placed under German military administration, which the Belgian authorities exploited by refusing to carry out some of the Nazi directives against the Jews. Roughly 60 percent of Belgium's Jews, who were there at the start of the war, survived the Final Solution.\n\nBulgaria, mainly through the influence of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, saved nearly all of its indigenous Jewish population from deportation and certain death. This is not to imply that Bulgaria was entirely blameless, as they passed specials laws to confiscate Jewish property and remove them from public service in early 1941. Once civil and military administration over parts of Northern Greece and Macedonia were turned over to Bulgaria by Germany, Bulgarian authorities deported Jews from those territories to concentration camps. Originally SS Captain Theodor Dannecker and the head of the Commissariat for Jewish Affairs, Alexander Belev, agreed to deport as many as 20,000 Jews from Macedonia and Thrace. These deportation were set to be completed by May 1943. Belev had agreed to these measures without the knowledge or approval from officials in the Bulgarian government, which sparked protests that reached the Bulgarian National Assembly in Sofia. Before the matter was over however, Bulgaria deported some 11,000 foreign Jews to Nazi-held territory. Once those Jews were handed over to the Germans, they were sent to the extermination camp at Treblinka where they perished.\n\nChannel Islands police collaborated with the Nazis deporting local Jews, some of whom were sent to Auschwitz in 1942, others were deported in 1943 as retaliation for the British commando raid on the small Channel Island of Sark, when most of the Jews were shipped to internment camps in France and Germany. On the Channel Island of Alderney a labor camp for Jews was established, one which was notable for the brutality of the German guards; hundreds of Jews died there and 384 were buried within the camp itself, while many others were simply dumped into the sea. Some 250—mostly French—Jews perished on a ship headed from Germany to the Alderney camp when it was sunk by British warships on 4 July 1944.\n\nCroatia was a satellite state created by the Germans and ruled by the vehemently racist head of the Ustasha, Ante Pavelić. As early as May 1941, the Croatian government forced all Jews to wear the yellow badge and by the summer of that same year, they had enacted laws excluding them from the economy and society. The Croatian Ustaše regime killed thousands of people, the majority of whom were Serbs, (estimates vary widely, but most modern and qualified sources put the numbers around 45,000 to 52,000), about 12,000 to 20,000 Jews and 15,000 to 20,000 Roma, primarily in the Ustasha's Jasenovac concentration camp near Zagreb. Historians Donald Niewyk and Francis Nicosia provide higher estimates for the numbers killed, reporting the following ranges: 500,000 Serbs, 25,000 Gypsies, and 32,000 Jews; most of whom (75%) were murdered, not by the Nazis but the Croatians themselves. According to the 2001 census in Croatia, only 495 Jews were listed of the 25,000 that had previously lived there before the Second World War, accounting for less than 1/10th of one-percent of Croatia's population.\n\nDue in part to the fact that the Germans were dependent upon an \"uninterrupted supply of Danish agricultural products to the Reich\" they tolerated the status quo of 6,500 Jews living unmolested in Denmark. Disquiet with German policies and wishing for democracy, the Danes began demonstrating against the Germans, which incited a military response from the Nazis that included dismantling the Danish military forces and correspondingly placed Danish Jews at increased risk.\n\nMost of the Danish Jews were rescued by the unwillingness of the Danish government and people to acquiesce to the demands of the occupying forces and through their concerted efforts to ferry Danish Jews to Sweden during October 1943. In total, this endeavor saved nearly 8,000 Jews from certain death; another 425 who were sent to Theresienstadt were also saved due to the determination of the Danes and returned to their homes following the war. About 1,500 of the roughly 8,000 Jews rescued by the Danes were recent refugees from Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Germany.\n\nPrior to the Second World War, there were approximately 5,000 Estonian Jews. About 50% of Estonia's Jewish community, aware of the fate that otherwise awaited them following the Nazi invasion, managed to escape to the Soviet Union; virtually all those remaining were forced to wear badges identifying them as Jews, stripped of their property, and eventually killed by \"Einsatzgruppe A\" and local collaborators before the end of 1941. With the invasion of the Baltics, the Nazi government found willing volunteers to assist the \"Einsatzgruppen\" and auxiliary police from this region, which incidentally enabled them carry-out mass genocide in this region. Right-wing Estonian units, known as the \"Omakaitse\" were among those who aided the \"Einsatzgruppen\" in killing Jews. At the Wannsee Conference in January 1942, Estonia was reported to be Jew-free. Jews from countries outside the Baltics were shipped there to be exterminated—as was the case for 7,130 Jews sent to Estonia in September 1943, where just a few months later, they were murdered. During the winter of 1941–1942, \"Einsatzgruppe A\" operating in \"Ostland\" and the Army Group Rear, reported having killed 2,000 Jews in Estonia. An estimated 20,000 Jews were sent to labor camps in Estonia from elsewhere in Eastern Europe.\n\nDespite being at times a co-belligerent of Nazi Germany, Finland remained independent and its leadership flatly refused to cooperate with Heinrich Himmler's request to relinquish its 2,000 Jews. Some Jews were even able to flee Nazi occupied Europe and make their way into Finland. Only seven of the 300 alien Jews living in Finland were turned over to the Germans. Even the deportation of a handful of Jews did not go unnoticed, as there were protests in Finland from members of its indigenous Social Democratic Party, by a number of Lutheran ministers, the Archbishop, and the Finnish Cabinet. Like Denmark, Finland was one of only two countries in the orbit of Nazi domination that refused to cooperate fully with Hitler's regime. These historical observations do not outright excuse the Finns entirely, as some scholars point out—in particular, the \"Einsatzkommando Finnland\" was formed during the joint invasion of the Soviet Union, which received collaboration from Finnish police units and Finnish military intelligence in capturing partisans, Jews, and Soviet POWs as part of their operations— exactly how many of each group remains unclear and is a subject needing further research according to historian Paul Lubotina.\n\nAnti-Semitism, as the Dreyfus Affair had shown at the end of the 19th century, was widespread in France, especially among anti-republican sympathizers. Long before the rise of the Nazis, anti-Semtism was so pronounced in France, that according to intellectual historian George Mosse, France seemed like it would be the country where racism might direct its political future. Before the onset of World War II, there were roughly 350,000 Jews residing in France with only 150,000 being native-born. Approximately 50,000 were refugees fleeing Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia, while another 25,000 came to France from Belgium and Holland; the remaining Jews were arrivals to France in the 1920s and 30s from Eastern Europe.\n\nOnce the Germans invaded, many Jews fled away from the advancing forces but France's rapid collapse both militarily and politically, the armistice, and the speed at which everything happened trapped many of them in southern France. Philippe Pétain, who became the French premier after Paris had fallen to the German Army, arranged the surrender to Germany. He then became the head of the Vichy government, which collaborated with the Nazis, claiming that it would soften the hardships of occupation. Opposition to the German occupation of northern France and the collaborationist Vichy government was left to the French Resistance within France and the Free French Forces led by Charles de Gaulle outside France. German occupation was quickly accompanied by harsh treatment; Jews were expelled from Alsace Lorraine and their property was confiscated, whereas foreign Jews—around 32,000—were interned following a Vichy decree on 4 October 1940. Additional discriminatory measures soon followed and intensified after the Nazis issued an ordinance on 27 September 1940; these were carried out by the French administration and included: identification requirements for Jews, a census to account for all Jewish persons and businesses, expropriation and \"Aryanization\" of property, along with occupational restrictions and bans. On 7 October 1940, Pétain's government repealed the Crémieux Law, a move which deprived 117,000 French Jews of the civil rights they were granted in 1870.\n\nBy the end of 1940, more Jews were arrested in Vichy France than in the German occupied region of the country. Another 1,112 Jews were arrested during French round-ups in May and December 1941; later, when they were deported, they constituted some of the earliest arrivals to Auschwitz at the end of March 1942. Five-thousand additional Jews were sent from France to Auschwitz at the end of April and during June 1942. Chief of police for the Vichy government, René Bousquet, agreed to arrest foreign and stateless Jews in the unoccupied region of France starting in July 1942, and he acceded to availing French police to collaborate with arresting Jews in the occupied zone. Per agreement between the Vichy government and the Nazis, another 10,000 Jews were added to the total departing between 19 July and 7 August 1942. Some 2,000 Jewish children whose parents had already been shipped to Auschwitz were also sent to the camp during the period 17–26 August 1942, and by the end of the year the total figure of deportees from France reached 42,000 persons. From the first transport of March 1942 to the last one during July 1944, as many as 77,911 Jews were deported from France to Poland. Most of the Jews in France were transported to Auschwitz, but some were sent to Majdanek and Sobibór with a few ending up at Buchenwald.\n\nThe Jews of Greece mainly lived in the area around Thessaloniki, where a large and influential Sephardi community had lived since the 15th century, where some 55,000 Jews comprised nearly 20% of the city. Following the German invasion and occupation of Salonika in 1941, an antisemitic nationalist party called National Union of Greece (\"Ethniki Enosis Ellados\", EEE), which had existed between 1927 and 1935, was revived by Nazi authorities.\n\nThe Greek governor, Vasilis Simonides, cooperated with the Nazi authorities and supplied local police forces to aide in deporting 48,500 Jews from Salonika to Auschwitz-Birkenau during March to August 1943. Both Greeks and Germans looted the businesses and homes vacated by the expelled Jews. Greek Jews residing in the areas occupied by Bulgaria were also deported following the deportations from Salonika. In March 1944, German forces and Greek police in Athens rounded-up Jews and deported them. Upwards of 2,000 Jews from Corfu and another 2,200 from Rhodes were transported to concentration camps in June 1944. Before the end of the war, over 60,000 Greek Jews were murdered, the vast majority of whom were sent to Auschwitz.\n\nIn March 1938, several years before the German occupation of Hungary, anti-Jewish measures were already enacted by the Hungarian Parliament in the wake of Prime Minister Kálmán Darányi's announcement about the need to solve the Jewish question. This legislation and the second set of anti-Jewish laws restricted Jews from certain professions and economic sectors, it also forbade Jews from becoming Hungarian citizens by means of either marriage, naturalization, or legitimization. Approximately 90,000 Jews and their family members who relied on their support (upwards of 220,000 people) lost their means of economic survival and when the third anti-Jewish law went into effect, it nearly mirrored the Nazi Nuremberg Laws.\n\nOnce the legal exclusion of Jews from Hungarian society was complete, the National Central Alien Control Office (\"Külföldieket Ellenőrző Országos Központi Hatóság\", KEOKH), turned its attention almost exclusively to expelling \"undesirable\" Jews. By the summer of 1941, the Hungarians carried out their first series of mass murders, and again in early January 1942 when they slaughtered 2,500 Serbs and 700 Jews, demonstrating that the political leadership in Hungary authorized the commission of atrocities even before the German occupation. Sometime in August 1941, the Hungarian authorities deported 16,000 \"alien\" Jews, most of whom were shot by the SS and Ukrainian collaborators. In the spring of 1942, the Hungarian Minister of Defense ordered the majority of Jewish forced labor to the theater of military operations. Due to this order as many as 50,000 Jews worked in forced labor companies starting in the spring of 1942 through 1944. Accompanying Hungarian troops during Operation Barbarossa, Jews in these units were poorly treated, insufficiently housed, ill-fed, routinely used to clear minefields, and placed in constant unnecessary danger; estimates indicate that \"at least 33,000 Hungarian Jewish males in the prime of life\" died in Russia.\n\nDuring parts of May through June 1944, some 10,000 Hungarian Jews were gassed on a daily basis at Auschwitz-Birkenau, a pace with which the crematoria could not maintain, so many of the bodies were burned in open pits. The 410,000 Jews killed during this period represents the \"largest single group of Jews murdered after 1942\" according to historian Christian Gerlach. Much of the efficiency with which the Germans were able to deport and kill Hungarian Jews stemmed from the \"frictionless cooperation of Hungary's politicians, bureaucracy, and gendarmerie\", and popular Hungarian anti-Semitism served to block any Jews trying to escape. After the fascist Arrow Cross coup in October 1944, Arrow Cross militias shot as many as 20,000 Jews in Budapest and dumped their bodies into the Danube River between December 1944 and the end of January 1945. Jews in labor battalions were sent on death marches into Germany and Austria.\n\nNearly one-tenth of the Holocaust's Jewish victims were Hungarian Jews, accounting for a total of over 564,000 deaths; some 64,000 Jews were killed prior to the German occupation of Hungary. Despite the atrocities in Hungary, approximately 200,000 Jews in total survived the war.\n\nAmong Germany's allies, Italy was not known for its anti-Semitism and had a relatively well assimilated Jewish population and its policies were essentially about domination as opposed to \"destruction.\" National pride and the need to express sovereignty had as much to do with Italian behaviors than any general benevolence towards the Jews. Approximately 57,000 Jews resided in pre-war Italy comprising less than one-tenth of one-percent, about 10,000 of whom were refugees from Austria and Germany. An Italian law was passed in 1938 as part of Mussolini's effort to align his country more with Germany; the law restricted the civil liberties of Jews. This effectively reduced the country's Jews to second-class status, though the Italians never made it official policy to deport Jews to concentration camps. Edging closer towards Germany, the Italian Ministry of the Interior established 43 camps where enemy \"aliens\" (to include Jews) were detained—these camps were not pleasant but they were \"a far cry from the Nazi concentration camps.\"\n\nAfter the fall of Benito Mussolini and the Italian Social Republic, Jews started being deported to German camps by the Italian puppet regime, which issued a police order to that effect on 30 November 1943. While Jews understandably fled once the puppet regime came to power, the Italian police nonetheless captured and sent over 7,000 Jews to camps at Fossoli di Carpi and Bolzano, both of which served as assembly points for deportations to Auschwitz-Birkenau. Italian prisons were used to house Jews as well, the most infamous of them was San Vittorio in Milan where \"torture and murder were common.\" Nazi Germany's Propaganda Minister, Joseph Goebbels, complained throughout the war about Italy's \"lax\" policies against the Jews. Through 1944, no less than 15 transports carrying around 3,800 Jews made their way from Italy to Auschwitz nevertheless. Estimates from a number of sources place the total death count for Italian Jews between 6,500 and 9,000. The generally accepted death tolls for Italy are about 8,000 Jews and as many as 1,000 Gypsies.\n\nBefore the war over 93,000 Jews resided in Latvia, comprising less than 5 percent of the country's population. Immediately in the wake of the German attack on the former Soviet Union in June 1941, Latvia was occupied and incorporated into the \"Reichskommissariat Ostland\" as \"Generalbezirk Lettland\" with a Latvian civil administration under the D. Heinrich Drechsler. Latvian auxiliary forces aided the SS \"Einsatzgruppen\" by following behind the advancing German forces, shooting Jews who they lined up in anti-tank trenches. Other instances of Latvian brutality against the Jews manifested before troops even arrived, as the local populations attacked and killed entire communities across hundreds of small villages. Zealous Latvians assisted the German forces in collecting all males between the ages of 16 and 60 in the city of Dvinsk for support operations; hundreds of Jewish males never returned from these duties as they were often murdered. In the areas in and around Warsaw, Latvian guards accompanied the SS in securing the ghetto and deporting Jews to Treblinka.\nFormer head of the Latvian police, Viktors Arājs, willingly collaborated with the Nazis by forming the Arājs \"Kommando\", a Latvian volunteer police unit, which worked in-tandem with the SS \"Einsatzgruppe\" A to kill Jews. As early as July 1941, they were already burning synagogues in Riga. According to historian Timothy Snyder, the Arājs \"Kommando\" shot 22,000 Latvian Jews at various locations after they had been brutally rounded-up for this purpose by the regular police and auxiliaries, and were responsible for assisting in the killing of some 28,000 more Jews. Aggregate figures indicate that around 70,000 Latvian Jews died during the Holocaust.\n\nOnly a handful of Jews lived in the small neutral state of Liechtenstein at the outbreak of the Second World War. Between 1933 and 1945, approximately 400 Jews were taken in by Liechtenstein, but another 165 were turned away. According to a 2005 study, the royal family of Liechtenstein purchased once Jewish-owned property and furniture that the Nazis seized after annexing Austria and Czechoslovakia. Liechtenstein's royal family also rented inmates from Strasshoff concentration camp near Vienna, where they employed forced labor on nearby royal estates.\n\nNearly 7 percent of Lithuania's population was Jewish, totaling approximately 160,000 persons. For the most part, the Nazis considered the majority of non-Jewish people in the Baltics as racially assimilable with the exception of Jews, against whom some discrimination was already present in Lithuania before the occupation, but it was generally confined to edicts against Jews being in certain occupations and/or educational discrimination. Lithuania's Jewish population quickly swelled in the aftermath of the territorial arrangement between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, which proved a tumultuous time for many Jews who fled there to escape persecution; meanwhile, it increased the Jewish population of Lithuania to approximately 250,000. Angry about the Nazi-Soviet pact, many Lithuanians began taking their anger out on the country's Jews by attacking them and their property. The situation deteriorated further due to the see-saw of political power that started when the Soviet Army took control of Lithuania in June 1940 and persecuted thousands of its citizens through a program of Sovietization (approximately 17,000 Lithuanians were sent to Siberia right before the Germans arrived). Many Jews were asked to join the short-lived Soviet government and were allowed integration into Lithuanian society. Just seven-weeks later however, the Nazis invaded and were greeted as liberators. Subsequent blame for the ill-fortune that befell the Lithuanians under the Soviets landed on the Jews, which started even before the Germans had finished conquering the country; Lithuanians carried out pogroms in at least 40 different places, where Jews were raped, severely injured, and killed. Blaming the Jews also afforded any Lithuanians who had cooperated with the Soviets the means to exonerate themselves by diverting attention onto a Jewish conspiratorial scapegoat.\n\nOn 25 June 1941 Nazi forces arrived in Kaunas, where they witnessed local Lithuanians drag about 50 male Jews into the center of the city while one Lithuanian man beat them to death with a crowbar (cheered on by spectators) in a public display of brutality that shocked many Germans. Once the Jews were all dead, the man who had beaten them to death, climbed atop their corpses and played the Lithuanian national anthem on an accordion. These deaths were part of the Kaunas pogrom during which many thousands of Jews were killed by the Nazis with local acquiesance or assistance. Mere weeks after arrival, the Nazis instituted a systematic campaign to eliminate the Jews of Lithuania by identifying them, rounding them up, guarding them, and transporting them to extermination sites—during which they were aided by Lithuanian soldiers and police. The pace of murder increased and spread across Lithuania as the Germans consolidated their rule, sometimes by way of Lithuanian initiative, other times triggered at the arrival of Sipo-SD contingents. Within the last 6 months of 1941 following the June invasion by Germany, the majority of Lithuanian Jews were executed, the biggest crime being the Ponary massacre. The remnants trapped in ghettos were killed in occupied Lithuania and sent to death German Nazi camps in Poland. By the end of June 1941, around 80 percent of Lithuania's Jews had been \"wiped out.\" Scholars believe the overall Holocaust-related death rate in Lithuania was approximately 90 percent, making Nazi-occupied Lithuania the European territory with the lowest number of Jewish survivors from World War II. While estimates vary, the number of Lithuanian Jews murdered in the Holocaust is assessed to be between 195,000 and 196,000.\n\nAdditionally, Lithuanian auxiliary police troops assisted in killing Jews in Poland, Belarus and Ukraine. One distinguished Lithuanian historian claims that there were five motivational factors eliciting participation in the atrocities by his countrymen. These were: (1) revenge against those who aided the Soviets; (2) expiation for those who wanted to demonstrate loyalty to the Nazis after collaborating previously with the Soviets; (3) anti-Semitism; (4) opportunism; and (5) self-enrichment.\n\nKnown prior to the war for racial and religious tolerance, the Netherlands had taken in Jews since the 16th century, many of whom had found refuge there after fleeing Spain. Before the German invasion of May 1940, approximately 140,000 Jews resided in the Netherlands, around 30,000 of them were refugees from Austria and Germany. Nearly 60 percent of Dutch Jews lived in Amsterdam, constituting some 80,000 people. Once the Nazis invaded, a host of anti-Semitic measures were enacted to include exclusion from professions like the civil service. Anti-Jewish legislation that had taken years to institute in Germany was enacted within just months in the Netherlands. On 22 October 1940, all Jewish banks and businesses had to register and all assets, whether private or those in banks, had to be declared. Even radio sets in possession of Jewish persons were forbidden and confiscated. By January 1941, the Jews of the Netherlands were being defined by racist criteria, had to be registered, and merely a month later in February, many were being deported to Westerbork transit camp in the eastern part of the country. From there, most Dutch Jews were first sent to Mauthausen concentration camp. While there was participation from some Dutch volunteers in various acts against the Jews, there was more of a tacit and begrudging acquiesance in the Netherlands, which required a very visible Nazi presence throughout the entire war to exploit the country's economic wealth and enforce Nazi occupation policies.\n\nFrom the summer of 1942 forward, upwards of 102,000 Dutch Jews were deported and killed—much of which was made possible by the \"cooperation and efficiency of the Dutch civil service and police\" who willingly served the Germans. Not only was there relatively smooth cooperation between Dutch authorities and Dutch police, the SS and the Nazi police organizations in the Netherlands also worked well together there; additionally, volunteers from indigenous fascist organizations assisted in persecuting Jews, and the Jewish council in Amsterdam unfortunately spread undue optimism and as a result, very few Dutch Jews went into hiding. In all fairness to the Jewish council however, they were deceived and provided misinformation by the Nazi commissioner for Amsterdam, Hans Bömcker. Historians Deborah Dwork and Robert Jan van Pelt report the Jewish death rate in the Netherlands at nearly 80% for the 140,000 originally living there.\n\nAmid a prewar population of 3 million, there were only 2,100 Jews living there, the largest contingency residing in Oslo. After Norway was invaded, the Nazis took control of the government by June 1940 and the true government went into exile. Power was given to the German Reichskommissar Josef Terboven and the Norwegian Fascist Party leader Vidkun Quisling, who supported the institution of anti-Jewish legislation. Quisling attempted to establish himself as the ruler of occupied Norway, but the Nazis only used him as leader of a puppet government. Like in Denmark, radios were confiscated from Jews by Norwegian police in May 1940. On 20 April 1940, SS \"Einsatzkommandos\" were established in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand, and Trondheim. The Nazis, assisted by Norwegian police units, managed to round up 763 Jews, who were deported to Auschwitz where they died. Another 930 Jews escaped to Sweden from Norway. However, the Nazis and their collaborators were very unpopular in Norway, causing a strong resistance movement, so the German government's aims for Norway were never fulfilled. Many Jews and other people were saved by the actions of Norwegians, including Norwegian police. Quisling and other Norwegians, who collaborated with the Nazis, were executed as traitors after the war, at least partly due to their involvement in the Holocaust.\n\nA Palestinian Arab nationalist and a Muslim religious leader, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Haj Amin al-Husseini worked for the Nazi Germany as a propagandist and a recruiter of Muslim volunteers for the Waffen-SS and other units. On 28 November 1941, Hitler officially received al-Husseini in Berlin. Hitler told al-Husseini of the Germans' \"uncompromising fight against the Jews\", which included the Jews in Arab territories. The Mufti spent the remainder of the war assisting with the formation of Muslim Waffen-SS units in the Balkans and the formation of schools and training centers for imams and mullahs who would accompany the Muslim SS and Wehrmacht units. Beginning in 1943, al-Husseini was involved in the organization and recruitment of Bosnian Muslims into several divisions. The largest of which was the 13th \"Handschar\" division.\n\nPolish Jews comprised roughly 10 percent of the country's population at upwards of 3.3 million persons before the Second World War began, most of whom were well-integrated into Polish society in various industries. Most Polish Jews lived in the cities and were self-employed. Economic depression during the 1920s and 30s changed the situation for Jews in Poland, as a subsequent emergence of anti-Semitism yielded government programs to reduce their economic standing. German occupation in 1939 only worsened matters for the Jews, as they started isolating them by forcing them into ghettos, eventually transporting them to camps established in Poland itself.\n\nFar right-wing party members in Poland saw the deportation of the Jews in a favorable light, but for the majority of Poles, their thoughts on the matter were far more complex. When the Nazis attacked the Red Army in Soviet-occupied Poland during Operation Barbarossa of 1941, a series of massacres of Jews were committed by the SS \"Einsatzgruppen\" in the new German \"Bezirk Bialystok\" district, such as in Jedwabne, Radzilow, and Kolno villages. The extent of local collaboration in these massacres is a controversial issue, as is the pivotal role of the \"Einsatzgruppe Zichenau-Schroettersburg\" under Hermann Schaper. According to Timothy Snyder, there were about a dozen German-instigated pogroms in Poland resulting in several thousand deaths, but \"the scale of the murder was inferior\" compared against what happened further north and east of Poland.\n\nThere were multiple occurrences of individual \"Volksdeutsche\" turning in, chasing down, or blackmailing Jews; such people were condemned as collaborators and under threat of execution by the Polish resistance. Emmanuel Ringelblum wrote that he saw Polish Blue Police beating Jews and that they participated in street rounds up. But according to Raul Hilberg, \"Of all the native police forces in occupied Eastern Europe, those of Poland were least involved in anti-Jewish actions... They [the Polish Blue Police] could not join the Germans in major operations against Jews or Polish resistors, lest they be considered traitors by virtually every Polish onlooker.\" Poland never surrendered to the Germans so there was no collaboration on a national governmental level as took place elsewhere in occupied Europe. There also were no Polish SS battalions, though there were SS volunteer battalions from almost all of the German-occupied countries. Attempts to organize Polish SS battalions resulted in immediate, large-scale desertions, and so these attempts were abandoned. Polish Jew, Nechama Tec, an expert on the Holocaust who herself was saved by Polish Catholics, writes that she knew of no Polish concentration camp guards. In general the machinery of the Holocaust ran with little Polish collaboration, though collaboration did take place on occasion as Yisrael Gutman and Shmuel Krakowski reported in their work \"Unequal Victims\" that a notable number of Poles turned their backs on the Jews, extorted them (see Szmalcownik ), and in the rural parts of Poland, peasants joined the Germans in hunting down and killing Jews who escaped from ghettos. They also claim that there were more bystander crimes than those willing to aide the Jews. Nonetheless, Polish citizens have the world's highest count of individuals recognized as Righteous Among the Nations by Yad Vashem; a list consisting of Gentiles who risked their lives to save Jews from extermination during the Holocaust.\n\nNonetheless, due to its European centrality, available rail networks, and proximity to Nazi avenues of control, Poland was the nation where German persecution policies against the Jews were played out in full. Poland was the country with the most ghettos, the only camps designed exclusively for extermination, and trains from all across northern, southern, and western Europe carried Jewish deportees into the country. There were over 450 extermination, concentration, labor, and prisoner-of-war camps in Poland. It was also the nation where the infamous killing centers of Belzec, Chelmno, Sobibor, Treblinka, Majdanek, and Auschwitz-Birkenau were located. Before the killing came to its conclusion, upwards of ninety-percent of all Poland's Jews—amounting to some three-million persons in total—were murdered by the Nazis.\n\nAssimilation was common for Jews in Romania, where some 757,000 of them lived but not necessarily in total peace there. Following the First World War, attacks against Jews intensified, as many Jews were stripped of citizenship. According to historian Lucy Dawidowicz, economic discrimination as well as violent anti-Semitism was present in Romania concomitant with Germany. Similar to Germany, Jews were forbidden full participation in Romanian society and culture, and under Antonescu the Romanianization of Jewish property was carried out, Jews were forbidden gainful employment, made to work as forced laborers, and a process of ghettoization and deportation was begun. Leading figures in Romania's anti-Semitic movement included the economics professor, Alexander Cuza, who founded the Fascist League of National Christian Defense, an organization that begat the notorious Iron Guard under Corneliu Zelea Codreanu. Cuza wanted to expel all Jews out of Romania; poet Octavian Coga wished to send them to Madagascar. The fascist Alexandru Razmerita advocated imprisoning the Jews in concentration camps and working them to death, while a Romanian Orthodox priest suggested drowning them all in the Black Sea. Copying the Nazis, the Romanian government enacted its version of the Nuremberg Laws in 1936. Iron Guard leader Codreanu once exclaimed that he was in favor of \"eliminating the Jews completely, totally and without exception.\"\n\nThe Romanian Antonescu regime was responsible for the deaths of approximately 380,000 Jews according to historian Yehuda Bauer. An official declaration by the Romanian government that denied the existence of Holocaust within the country's borders during World War II led in 2003 to the creation of the International Commission on the Holocaust in Romania. The official report of the Commission released jointly with the Romanian government concluded:\n\nIn cooperation with German \"Einsatzgruppen\" and Ukrainian auxiliaries, Romanian troops killed hundreds of thousands of Jews in Bessarabia, northern Bukovina, and Transnistria; some of the larger massacres of Jews occurred at Bogdanovka, a Romanian concentration camp along the Bug River in Transnistria, between 21 and 30 December 1941. Nearly 100,000 Jews were killed in occupied Odessa and well over 10,000 were killed in the Iași pogrom of June 1941. Romanian troops also massacred Jews in the Domanevka and Akhmetchetka concentration camps.\n\nJean Ancel, who headed the commission along with Elie Wiesel, spent his entire life researching Romania's treatment of Jews. In his book he provides a confirmation using Romania's own archives, made available in 1994–95 after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and with Nazi documents, survivor testimonies, war crimes trial transcripts, that Romania not only participated in but independently implemented its own autonomous genocide of Jews in Bessarabia, Bukovina, and in Ukraine—the only Nazi ally to do so during the war.\n\nThe protests of various public, political and religious figures, including Prince Constantin Karadja, against the deportation of the Jews from the Romanian Kingdom contributed to the change of policy toward the Jews starting with October 1942. The result of this change of policy and that of the actions of a relatively small number of individuals, was that at least 290,000 Romanian Jews survived.\n\nBefore the First World War, Serbia existed as an independent country before being incorporated into Yugoslavia in 1919. Approximately 16,000 Jews resided there. During the interwar years, Serbia constituted one of the places where it was comparatively safe to be a Jew, despite the presence of some general xenophobia. Serbia was occupied by Germany in April 1941. As part of their effort to occupy the northern regions of Yugoslavia, the Germans established a military government in Serbia. Serbia's collaborationist government was led by General Milan Nedić. The internal affairs of the Serbian occupied territory were moderated by German racial laws, that were introduced in all occupied territories with immediate effects on the Jewish and Roma populations. Indigenous Serbians who harbored democratic beliefs were also targeted. \nPartisan activities in Serbia elicited harsh pacification measures from the SD and Wehrmacht. The Nazis had a policy of killing 100 Serbs for each German soldier killed and another 50 Serbs for every German soldiers who was wounded. Resistance activities continued for some time in Serbia nonetheless.\n\nSometimes the Serbian authorities cooperated with the Germans as matter of course, whereas others took individual initiative; some Serbian military commanders rounded-up Gypsies so they could be concentrated in one area, where they were shot. German occupiers declared Serbia \"Judenfrei\" in August 1942. The major concentration camps in Serbia were Sajmište and Banjica but many others like Topovske Šupe, Šabac, and Niš concentration camps also interned considerable numbers of Jews. Before the war was concluded, upwards of 14,500 Serbian Jews were murdered. Legends about Serbs saving the Jews in World War II are widespread in Serbia, and 132 Serbs have been honored as righteous Gentiles.\n\nIn 1938 approximately 135,000 Jews resided in Slovakia, around 40,000 of them lived in Ruthenia and Subcarpathia, areas previously ceded to Hungary; most of whom, led good lives despite the presence of anti-Semitism among the peasant population of Slovakia. As early as April 1939, anti-Jewish legislation was enacted, but this was religious and not racial in nomenclature. Nonetheless, the restrictions against Jews proceeded accordingly, blocking them from various professions, which was accompanied by violence against the Jews from the indigenous Hlinka Guard. Slovakian Jews were among the first to be handed over en masse to the Nazis following the Wannsee Conference. Members of the Hlinka Guard went house to house and brutally seized young and fit Jews from their homes in March and April 1942, sending them to Auschwitz as slave laborers. The Hlinka Guard was assisted by the \"Freiwillige Schutzstaffel\" (Slovak volunteers in the SS). Between March through October 1942, Tiso's Slovakian regime deported approximately 58,000 Jews to the German-occupied part of Poland. The Slovak government even paid the Germans for the Jews that were deported. The deportation of the remaining 24,000 was stopped due to the intervention of a Papal nuncio, whereby the Slovak president was informed that the German authorities were killing the Jews deported from Slovakia. Despite this action, approximately 12,600 Slovak Jews were still sent to Auschwitz, Theresienstadt, and other camps in Germany before the deportations ceased. Around half of them were killed in concentration camps. Aggregate numbers of Holocaust victims tabulated by experts indicate that at least 60,000 Jews as well as 400 Slovakian Gypsies were killed; high estimates place the total number of Jewish victims from Slovakia at 71,000 persons.\n\nAs early as 1903, Vladimir Lenin had already formulated a Communist ideology about the Jews, who he avowed, were not a nation since they did not possess any specified territory; this position was shared by Stalin and in the 1920s as many as 830,000 Soviet Jews were considered \"lishentsy\" (non-citizens). Some of those Jewish non-citizens eventually applied to work in factories and subsequently gained their citizenship but Jewish culture and literature faded fast under the Stalinist government. Nearly 90 percent of Russian Jews were urbanized and lived in one of eleven cities, with the largest groups in Moscow, Kiev, and Leningrad. Anti-Semitic literature like the \"Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion\"—which advocates a Jewish conspiracy for world domination—was popular in prewar Russia. Russian pogroms targeting the Jews were among the first in the modern period to incite its citizens to violence for the sake of political expediency. Still, around three-million Jews lived across the vast expanse of the Soviet Union in January 1939. The Jewish population within the Soviet territories was distributed as follows: 300,000 in Bessarabia and northern Bukovina, 5,000 in Estonia, 95,000 in Latvia, 155,000 in Lithuania (excluding Vilna), 1.5 to 1.6 million in Soviet-occupied Poland, and another 3.1 million in the USSR.\n\nDuring the invasion of the Soviet Union, the Jews were unaware of the Nazi anti-Jewish policies, partly as a result of Soviet silence about the matter. In the German-occupied Soviet territories, local Nazi collaborationist units represented over 80% of the available German forces, which provided them with a total of nearly 450,000 personnel organised in so-called \"Schutzmannschaften\" formations. Practically all of these units participated in the round-ups and mass-shootings. The overwhelming majority were recruited in the western USSR and the Baltic region, areas recently occupied by the Soviets where the Jews were typically scapegoated, which exacerbated pre-Nazi antisemitic attitudes. Ukrainians in particular, displayed some of the most virulent hatred of the Jews and approved of German measures against them, despite their initial constraint in persecuting them. Eventually some 12,000 Ukrainian auxiliaries joined the Nazis in perpetrating the Final Solution and while many of them participated as Ukrainian nationalists, anti-Semitism proved a factor, one which they acquired on the job. Thousands of Ukrainians rushed to occupy businesses and homes vacated by persecuted Jews.\n\nGerman \"Einsatzgruppen\" units, members of the Wehrmacht, Order Police, and auxiliary units mostly from Latvia, Lithuania and the Ukraine were already engaged in killing operations in the summer of 1941 and by July of that year, they had helped kill 39,000 Ukrainian Jews, and another 26,000 Jews in Belarus. Local citizens aided by militias in Latvia, Bukovina, Romania, Bessarabia, Moldavia, Lithuania, Bialystok, Galicia, and elsewhere killed tens-of-thousands of Jews on their own accord. Throughout the remainder of 1941 to the autumn of 1942, the concerted murder operations proceeded apace. Not accounting for the deaths of victims from its territories, at least 700,000 Soviet Jews and 30,000 Gypsies were killed in the Holocaust. Another three-million Soviet soldiers were killed or starved-to-death by the Germans.\n\nDuring World War II, Francisco Franco remained largely silent in regard to Jewish matters, and Spain became an unlikely escape route and haven for thousands of Jews. Franco was known to harbor virulent anti-Semitic beliefs and agreed with Hitler that Judaism, Communism, and cosmopolitanism were related threats to European society. Western European Jews still fled to Spain, as they sought to escape deportation to concentration camps from German occupied France, but also Sephardic Jews from Eastern Europe, especially in Hungary. Trudy Alexy refers to the \"absurdity\" and \"paradox of refugees fleeing the Nazis' Final Solution to seek asylum in a country where no Jews had been allowed to live openly as Jews for over four centuries.\" In the first years of the war, \"Laws regulating their admittance were written and mostly ignored.\" Once the tide of war began to turn against the Germans, and Count Francisco Gómez-Jordana succeeded Franco's brother-in-law Serrano Súñer as Spain's foreign minister, Spanish diplomacy became \"more sympathetic to Jews\", although Franco himself \"never said anything\" about it. Around that same time, a contingent of Spanish doctors traveling in Poland were fully informed of the Nazi extermination plans by the \"Gauleiter\" Frankel of Warsaw, who was under the misimpression that they would share his views about the matter; when they returned home, they passed the information to Admiral Luís Carrero Blanco, who told Franco.\n\nDiplomats discussed the possibility of Spain as a route to a containment camp for Jewish refugees near Casablanca, but it came to nothing due to lack of Free French and British support. Nonetheless, control of the Spanish border with France relaxed somewhat and thousands of Jews managed to cross into Spain (many by smugglers' routes). Almost all of them survived the war. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee operated openly in Barcelona. Francoist Spain, despite its aversion to Zionism and \"Judeo\"-Freemasonry, does not appear to have shared the rabid anti-Semitic ideology promoted by the Nazis. About 20,000 to 30,000 refugees, mainly Jews, were allowed to transit through Spain to Portugal and beyond. About 5,000 Jews in occupied Europe benefitted from Spanish legal protection.\n\nIn 2010, a document was found in Spanish archives, which revealed that Franco's government gave a main architect of the Nazi \"Final Solution\", Heinrich Himmler, a list of six thousand Jews living in Spain, upon his request. Jose Maria Finat y Escriva de Romani, Franco's chief of security issued an official order dated 13 May 1941 to all provincial governors requesting a list of all Jews, both local and foreign, present in their districts. After the list was compiled, Romani was appointed Spain's ambassador to Germany, enabling him to deliver the list to Himmler. Following the defeat of Germany in 1945, the Spanish government attempted to destroy all evidence of cooperation with the Nazis, but this official order survived. Spanish diplomats did save thousands of Jews, but it was done on their personal initiative.\n\nBefore the onset of the Second World War, approximately 7,000 Jews resided in Sweden, most of whom lived in Stockholm. Like Switzerland, the Swedish government remained neutral due to its financial ties and the economic advantages it secured from a friendly relationship with Germany. There was even a small fascist pro-Nazi political group—known as the Swedish National Socialist Party—but they were unable to rally support for their cause. Swedish authorities were initially resistant to Jewish immigration into the country and several thousands were turned away. That was not to last, as by 1942 the Swedish government started allowing Norwegian and Finnish immigrants, as well as taking in some 900 Norwegian Jews. Another 7,000 Danish Jews and some 9,000 Danish Christians were permitted entrance to Sweden in 1943. During 1944, the Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg traveled to Budapest and negotiated for the release of thousands of Hungarian Jews. Wallenberg's efforts secured passports for 15,000–20,000 Jews; he and those collaborating with him very likely saved the lives of some 70,000 Jewish persons before the Red Army's arrival in Hungary during January 1945.\n\nProximity to Nazi Germany as a bordering nation made the Swiss government very tentative about dealing with the Jews. Sharing a physical border with Germany was also part of the reason that the Swiss maintained amicable economic relations with Germany. Correspondingly, both Sweden and especially Switzerland cooperated with the Nazis concerning banking and the exploitation of financial opportunities, as they knowingly accepted expropriation of money and goods, which previously belonged to Jewish companies and/or families for their own gain. Before 1938, Swiss alien and refugee policy was already restrictive toward certain people and groups, notably foreign Roma and Sinti. However, from that date, restrictions were intensified, particularly towards Jews. As part of that policy, the Swiss government requested that the German government mark the passports of German Jews with a \"J\" as they were not ready to grant asylum on the grounds of racial persecution. This policy took effect following the Anschluß with Austria, as the Swiss government was concerned about potential Jewish refugees fleeing and inundating them accordingly. In 1942 Swiss borders were completely closed to all Jewish refugees, which even included Jewish children.\n\nBy late October 1942, news of the Jewish catastrophe had reached Switzerland. After German troops seized control of Italy, which had withdrawn its political and military support when non-fascist Italians overthrew Mussolini, hundreds of Jews escaped over the mountain passes into neutral Switzerland. French resistance fighters and activists were also instrumental in helping smuggle Jews from France into neutral Spain and Switzerland, where they were able to find shelter. Sometime in 1944, some 1,684 Hungarian Jews arrived in Switzerland from Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, another 1,200 Jews from Theresienstadt concentration camp found safety in Switzerland and by February 1945, over 115,000 refugees of various types had made their way across the Swiss border to safety.\n\nThe International Commission of Experts (ICE) set up in 1996 by the Swiss parliament to examine relations between Nazi Germany and Switzerland reported: \"Anti-Semitic views were more or less widespread amongst the political classes, the civil service, the military and the church.\" The ICE wrote: \"by progressively closing the borders, delivering captured refugees over to their persecutors, and adhering to restrictive principles for far too long, the country stood by as many people were undoubtedly driven to certain death.\" Although accurate statistics are hard to put together, the commission concluded that \"It must therefore be assumed that Switzerland turned back or deported over 20,000 refugees during the Second World War. Furthermore, between 1938 and November 1944, around 14,500 applications for entry visas submitted by hopeful emigrants to the Swiss diplomatic missions abroad were refused.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\", the U.S. failed to live up to its creed about accepting the \"tired, poor, huddled masses\" of the world during the Holocaust. The U.S. policy towards Jews fleeing Germany and claiming asylum was restrictive. In 1939, the annual combined German-Austrian immigration quota was 27,370. A famous incident was the U.S. denial of entry to the \"St. Louis\", a ship loaded with 937 passengers. Almost all passengers aboard the vessel were Jews fleeing from Nazi Germany. Most were German citizens, some were from Eastern Europe, and a few were officially \"stateless.\" The ship's original destination was Cuba, but the Cuban government, after admitting 28 refugees, ordered the ship to leave. The ship continued to the U.S., sailing so close to Florida that the passengers could see the lights of Miami. Some passengers on the \"St. Louis\" cabled President Franklin D. Roosevelt asking for refuge. Roosevelt never responded, though he could have issued an executive order to admit the \"St. Louis\" refugees. A State Department telegram sent to a passenger stated that the passengers must \"await their turns on the waiting list and qualify for and obtain immigration visas before they may be admissible into the United States.\" Finally, the ship was forced to return to Europe and some 254 of its Jewish passengers eventually died in the Holocaust. \n\nOn 17 December 1942, the United States finally issued a statement condemning the Nazi extermination program, but this turned out to be a meaningless gesture as did the follow-on Bermuda Conference of April 1943. By that same year, evidence of the death camps was circulating via firsthand accounts through the State Department but U.S. leaders took no effort to bomb the camps nor did America offer to take in hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees. According to historian Victor Davis Hanson, American officials like then Assistant Secretary of State Breckinridge Long and Assistant Secretary of War John J. McCloy were \"especially culpable\" for their roles in \"downplaying\" evidence of the camps and for \"incorrectly asserting that heavy bombers either could not reach camps like Auschwitz or could not be diverted from more important missions.\" In the end, the United States did not lift its immigration restriction against Jews until after the Second World War was over.\n\nThe juridical notion of crimes against humanity was developed following the Holocaust. The sheer number of people murdered and the transnational nature of the mass killing shattered any notion of national sovereignty taking precedence over international law when prosecuting these crimes. There were a number of legal efforts established to bring Nazis and their collaborators to justice. Some of the higher-ranking Nazi officials were tried as part of the Nuremberg Trials, presided over by an Allied court; the first international tribunal of its kind. Other trials were conducted in the countries in which the defendants were citizens — in West Germany and Austria, many Nazis were let off with light sentences, with the claim of \"following orders\" ruled a mitigating circumstance, and many returned to society soon afterwards.\n\nAn ongoing effort to pursue Nazis and collaborators resulted, famously, in the 1960 capture of Holocaust organizer Adolf Eichmann in Argentina (an operation led by Rafi Eitan) and to his subsequent trial in Israel in 1961. Simon Wiesenthal became one of the most famous Nazi hunters.\n\nSome former Nazis escaped any charges. For example, Reinhard Gehlen, a former intelligence officer of the Wehrmacht, managed to turn around and work for the CIA, and created what informally became known as the Gehlen Organization. He recruited ex–intelligence-officers of the Wehrmacht and Nazis from the SS and SD to work for him. On 1 April 1956, the \"Bundesnachrichtendienst\" (BND; the German intelligence agency) was created from the Gehlen Organization, and transferred to the West German government. Reinhard Gehlen became President of the BND and remained its head until 1968.\n\nKlaus Barbie, known as \"the Butcher of Lyon\" for his role at the head of the Gestapo, was protected from 1945 to 1955 by MI5 and the CIA, before fleeing to South America where he had a hand in Luis García Meza Tejada's 1980 \"Cocaine Coup\" in Bolivia. Barbie was finally arrested in 1983 and sentenced to life imprisonment for crimes against humanity in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4420155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4420155", "title": "Said-Khasanom Abumuslimov", "text": "Said-Khasanom Abumuslimov\n\nDr. Said-Khasan Abumuslimov (also spelled Sait-Khassan Abumuslimov and Said-Hassan Abumuslimov) is a historian, writer and publicist. In the years 1996–1997 he was acting vice president of the breakaway Chechen Republic of Ichkeria under acting president Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev.\n\nHe was born in 1953 in Kazakh SSR. \n\nIn 1974 Abumuslimov and Khozh-Ahmed Noukhaev co-founded the Chechen separatist group Obshina. He studied History and German Language at the Lomonosov University in Moscow, finishing in 1981 and in 1990 he received his PhD.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1994 Sait-Khassan Abumuslimov lectured history at the State University in Grozny. He also took part in the drafting of the Chechen Constitution.\n\nLater, he served in a number of government positions under Chechen separatist president Dzhokhar Dudayev and his successor Yandarbiyev.\n\nSince 1999, Dr. Abumuslimov has lived outside Chechnya and has been conducting academic research on different topics. He is member of the Academic Forum for International Security and of the German-Caucasian Society.\n"}
{"id": "19864705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864705", "title": "School for Advanced Research", "text": "School for Advanced Research\n\nThe School for Advanced Research (SAR), until 2007 known as the School of American Research and founded in 1907 as the School for American Archaeology (SAA), is an advanced research center located in Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA. Since 1967, the scope of the school's activities has embraced a global perspective through programs to encourage advanced scholarship in anthropology and related social science disciplines and the humanities, and to facilitate the work of Native American scholars and artists. SAR offers residential fellowships for artists and scholars, and it publishes academic and popular non-fiction books through SAR Press.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century, archaeology was a young discipline with roots in historical studies of Old World antiquities. In 1906 Alice Cunningham Fletcher, an anthropologist and ethnographer of Plains Indian groups, was on the American Committee of the Archaeological Institute of America. The AIA, founded in Boston in 1879, had schools in Athens, Rome, and Palestine that sponsored research on classical civilization and promoted professional standards in archaeology. Fletcher wanted to establish an \"Americanist\" center to train students in the profession of archaeology, to engage in anthropological research in the Americas, and to preserve and study the unique cultural heritage of the American Southwest. \n\nHer goals coincided with those of Edgar Lee Hewett, an educator and amateur archaeologist whom she met in Mexico in 1906.\nNicknamed \"El Toro\" (the bull), Hewett was a controversial figure. He served as president of New Mexico Normal School in Las Vegas (now New Mexico Highlands University) from 1898 to 1903, where he taught some of the first anthropology courses to be offered at any U.S. college. His work lobbying for the protection of archaeological sites led to the creation of Mesa Verde National Park and the passage of the U.S. Antiquities Act of 1906.\n\nIn December 1907, the American Committee of the AIA accepted Fletcher's plan to establish the School of American Archaeology. It appointed Hewett as director and Fletcher as the first chairperson of the School's managing committee.\n\nSanta Fe, then the capital of New Mexico Territory, was chosen as the School of American Archaeology's headquarters in part because the territorial government offered the historic Palace of the Governors as a permanent home. In 1909, the legislature established the Museum of New Mexico as an agency of the School, creating a relationship that would continue for the next 50 years. Hewett became director of both the Museum and the School. In 1917, the School of American Archaeology changed its name to the School of American Research to reflect a broader mission:\n\n\"to promote and carry on research in Archaeology and related branches of the Science of Man; to foster Art in all its branches through exhibitions and by other means which may from time to time be desirable\". (Articles of Incorporation 1917)\nMidway through its first year of operations, the school was immersed in excavating Pueblo ruins on the eastern edge of the Pajarito Plateau, west of Santa Fe, and conducting the first of its field programs. Many legendary archaeologists, among them Neil Judd, Alfred V. Kidder, and Sylvanus Morley, were trained at SAR field labs at Tyuonyi Ruin on El Rito de los Frijoles (now part of Bandelier National Monument), Chaco Canyon, Puye Cliff Dwellings, and other sites. The school also sponsored excavations in Mexico, Guatemala, and South America, and led the effort to preserve 22 Spanish missions in New Mexico. While directing the school, Hewett founded departments of anthropology at the University of Southern California and the University of New Mexico.\n\nThrough the Museum of New Mexico, the school took an early interest in promoting and preserving the artistic traditions of Southwestern Indians. Indian workers assisted at the School's excavations on the Pajarito Plateau, and their interactions with Hewett, Kenneth M. Chapman, and other archaeologists led to a recognition of individual talents and traditional aesthetics. Hewett and Chapman, an artist hired by Hewett to head the art department at New Mexico Normal School, and later one of the first employees of the School of American Archaeology, provided extensive support for Indian artists. They offered studio facilities, as well as collecting and exhibiting their work. Early Native artists promoted by SAR included Maria Martinez, Crescencio Martinez, Awa Tsireh, and Fred Kabotie, among many others. In 1922, the school sponsored the first Southwest Indian Fair, precursor of today's world-renowned Santa Fe Indian Market.\n\nHewett led the school and museum until his death in 1946 at age 82. A 20-year period of relative inactivity followed. The School continued to pursue archaeological research projects on a modest scale. It was headed, successively, by Sylvanus Morley, Boaz Long, Wayne L. Mauzy, Edward Weyer, Jr., and Eugene McCluney. This transition period ended in 1959, when the State Legislature formally separated the Museum of New Mexico from the School. The School of American Research was gutted, left with a staff of two and an uncertain future.\n\nIn 1967, Douglas W. Schwartz, a young professor of anthropology from the University of Kentucky, became the new director of the School of American Research. Schwartz broadened the school's focus to embrace advanced scholarship in anthropology and the humanities worldwide; and to promote the study, preservation, and creation of Southwest Indian art. Schwartz also continued the school's archaeological research with field excavations in the Grand Canyon in the late 1960s and, in the 1970s, the excavations of Arroyo Hondo Pueblo.\n\nOver the years, SAR's offices had relocated from the Palace of the Governors to the Hewett House on Lincoln Street. In 1973, the school moved into an old adobe estate on Santa Fe's east side. \"El Delirio\" had been the home of Martha Root White and Amelia Elizabeth White. Built in the 1920s by William Penhallow Henderson, the estate was a popular gathering place for Santa Fe artists, writers, and intellectuals—among them Hewett, Morley, and others associated with the school. The White sisters were avid promoters of Indian art, and together they opened the first Native American art gallery in New York City. Elizabeth also was a founding member of the Indian Arts Fund (IAF) in Santa Fe and sat on SAR's Board of Managers for 25 years. When Elizabeth died in 1972 at age 94, she left El Delirio and other Santa Fe properties to the School. In that same year, the IAF disbanded and deeded its collections of Southwest Indian art to the School.\n\nThe new campus, with its many buildings, permitted the realization of Schwartz's vision for the school. The Advanced Seminar Program was inaugurated in 1968, and has since sponsored more than 120 seminars, the results of which are published by the school's SAR Press. The Resident Scholar Program, launched in 1972, has provided over 180 scholars with residential fellowships.\n\nThe construction of the Indian Arts Research Center in 1978 gave the collections inherited from the IAF a suitable home. In 1988, the J. I. Staley Prize was established to recognize books by living authors that exemplify outstanding research in anthropology. Over the succeeding two decades, several residential fellowships for Native artists were also established.\n\nIn 2001, SAR was under a new president, Richard M. Leventhal, an archaeologist from UCLA who assumed leadership of the school on the retirement of Dr. Schwartz. During his three-year tenure at the School, Dr. Leventhal worked to revitalize SAR’s core programs and extend greater opportunities for scholars and visiting Native artists. Dr. Leventhal was succeeded in 2005 by Dr. James F. Brooks, formerly director of SAR Press. His term coincided with the school’s centennial in 2007, when SAR changed its name from the School of American Research to the School for Advanced Research, to better reflect the global reach of its support for scholarship in the social sciences and humanities. Some of the highlights of Brooks’s tenure include new initiatives such as the Campbell Program for Women Scholar Practitioners—which has supported women from Morocco, Ethiopia, and Kenya in developing strategies for women’s economic and social empowerment—and an emphasis on collaborative research and exhibition projects with Native peoples; monthly Sparks Talks on local history and culture; and a field trip program serving more than two hundred participants annually, visiting locations as near as Pecos National Monument and as far as the borderlands of southeastern Turkey.\n\nWhen Brooks resigned his post in June 2013, SAR’s Board of Directors appointed Dr. David E. Stuart, an anthropologist and long-time teacher and senior administrator at the University of New Mexico, as interim president. In June 2014, Michael F. Brown assumed SAR’s presidency after shifting to emeritus status at Williams College, on whose faculty he had long served. Brown, a cultural anthropologist familiar with SAR from participation in two advanced seminars and a term as resident scholar, has published extensively on new religious movements, the indigenous peoples of South America, and global efforts to protect indigenous cultural property from appropriation and misuse.\n\nThe School for Advanced Research offers residential fellowships for scholars and Native artists, and internships are provided for Native students pursuing academic careers or professional careers in museums. The School also sponsors scholarly seminars through its Advanced Seminar and Short Seminar programs. The results of many of these programs are published through SAR Press. The school recognizes outstanding books in anthropology with the annual J. I. Staley Prize. Public outreach includes membership, lecture, and tour and field trip programs. SAR has created an educational website for New Mexico grade-school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "33370967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33370967", "title": "Shuanggudui", "text": "Shuanggudui\n\nShuanggudui () is an archeological site located near Fuyang in China's Anhui province. Shuanggudui grave no. 1, which belongs to Xiahou Zao (), the second marquis of Ruyin (), was sealed in 165 BCE in the early Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE). Excavated in 1977, it was found to contain a large number of texts written on bamboo strips, including fragments of the \"Classic of Poetry\" and the \"Songs of the South\", a text on breathing exercises, a \"year table\" () recounting historical events, a manual on dogs, a version of the \"I Ching\" (\"Yijing\") that differs from the received one, and artifacts including the oldest known cosmic board, a divinatory instrument. Like Mawangdui and Guodian, two other tombs from the area of the old state of Chu, the Shuanggudui find has shed great light on the culture and practices of the early Han dynasty.\n\nShuanggudui (, literally \"paired ancient tumuli\") was excavated in July 1977 during the expansion of the Fuyang municipal airport in Anhui province, China. Located about two miles outside Fuyang at the time, the site was known to contain old tombs, yet it is unclear whether the excavation was pre-planned or rushed just as construction started. The digging was supervised by two archeologists from the Anhui Provincial Archaeological Relics Find Team, who discovered two tombs, one of which (Tomb 1, to the east) was found to contain texts and artifacts. A ramp wide led to a coffin chamber measuring north-south by east-west, about half the area of the more famous Tomb 3 that had been discovered in Mawangdui in 1973.\n\nSome of the bronze artifacts found in Tomb 1 were marked with the name of the tomb's occupant Ruyin Hou (), which means \"Lord of Ruyin\". This title had first been granted to Xiahou Ying (d. 172 BCE), who had helped Liu Bang (r. 202–195 BCE) to establish the Han dynasty. Archeologists have identified the tomb as belonging to Ying's son Xiahou Zao, the second Lord of Ruyin. Little is known about him, except that he died seven years after his father. The tomb is therefore thought to have been sealed in 165 BCE, the fifteenth year of Emperor Wen's reign.\n\nThe Shuanggudui tomb contained the earliest known diviner's boards (\"shi\" ), or \"cosmographs\", divinatory instruments that were widely used during the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 AD). These two lacquered astrological boards consist of a movable disk – in diameter – representing the Heavens mounted on a square base –  – representing Earth. The center of the circular top depicts the seven stars of the Northern Dipper (which was considered to be a powerful astral deity), whereas the rim of both the disk and the square base is inscribed with astro-calendrical signs that helped to perform divination. Donald Harper, who wrote about this artifact soon after its discovery, argued that it should be called \"cosmic board\" because it is \"so obviously a mechanistic model of the cosmos itself\".\n\nThe use of such boards is described or alluded to in many ancient Chinese texts like the \"Chu Ci\", \"Han Feizi\", \"Huainanzi\", and some military texts. The diviner would rotate the disk until the Dipper pointed in a chosen direction, usually corresponding to the current date. He would then find an answer to his question by means of numerological calculations. Manipulation of this miniature model of the cosmos was supposed to bring power to its user.\n\nNumeral juxtaposition on the inner, round part of the board correlates to the Luoshu layout which was long supposed to have been invented in the Six Dynasties (220–589). This is the most ancient occurrence of the magic square Luoshu. \"The inscriptions ... appear to belong to ... the 'Circulation of Taiyi among the Nine Palaces' (Taiyi xing jiugong 太一行九宮).\"\n\nThe most valuable goods that were buried with the tomb's occupant had long been robbed when archeologists excavated the tomb in 1977. In addition to the two cosmic boards, many lacquered vessels were nonetheless found, as well as terra cotta musical instruments, metallic weapons (a few made of iron but most of bronze), and a number of bronze artifacts like a mirror, a lamp, and a cauldron.\n\nRobbers who looted the tomb in the late second century CE took the bamboo strips out of the lacquered bamboo hamper in which they had been placed and left the strips on the ground of the coffin chamber. The chamber itself later collapsed, breaking the strips, and muddy water covered the strips, eventually turning them into \"paper-thin sheets, fused together into clumps by ground pressure.\" The largest of the three clumps was about long by wide and high. To complicate matters, the 1977 excavation took place under a heavy rainstorm, and the pump that the excavators used to remove mud from the coffin chamber also pumped out other fragments of bamboo strips.\n\nIt took a team led by Han Ziqiang () of the Fuyang Local Museum and Yu Haoliang (; 1917–1982) of the Bureau of Cultural Relics in Beijing almost two years just to separate the surviving fragments. They first removed mud from the clumps by soaking them in a \"weak vinegar solution\", then baked them to remove moisture. Next, they detached the thin and extremely brittle fragments of strips from the clumps one by one and photographed each piece. Historian Edward Shaughnessy, who has worked on some of the Shuanggudui texts, finds it \"miraculous\" that they could be reconstructed from such damaged material.\n\nAfter Yu Haoliang's death in 1982, Hu Pingsheng () replaced him at the head of the team. It is Hu and Han Ziqiang who edited the texts for publication.\n\nThe longest text found in Shuanggudui is an incomplete version of the \"Yijing\", or \"Classic of Changes\", in 752 fragments containing 3,119 characters. The hexagram and line statements of the Shuanggudui text closely resemble the received version, yet it is too fragmentary to reconstruct the complete text of any single hexagram or even the sequence in which they were presented.\n\nNearly two thirds of this Shuanggudui \"Yijing\" consist in \"formulaic divination statements\" that are present neither in the received \"Yijing\", nor in the version that was found in Mawangdui that was also sealed in the 160s BCE. Edward Shaughnessy has hypothesized that the line statements of the received \"Book of Changes\" may have originated in similar but older divination statements.\n\nMore than 170 fragments of the \"Classic of Poetry\" or \"Book of Odes\", for a total of 820 characters, have also been found in Shuanggudui. These fragments are longer and have been more extensively studied than other incomplete versions of the \"Shijing\" found in ancient tombs like those of Guodian (tomb sealed around 300 BCE) and Mawangdui (168 BCE).\n\nThe Shuanggudui version contains portions of 65 songs from the \"Airs of States\" (\"Guofeng\" ) section and 4 from the \"Xiaoya\" section. Although the song titles are the same as those of the received version, the text varies substantially from that of the other early Han versions. Since each strip contained one stanza (\"zhang\" ), characters were written smaller when a long stanza had to fit on a single strip.\n\nNamed after the mythical inventor of Chinese writing, the \"Cangjiepian\" or \"Cang Jie Wordbook\" was one of the earliest primers of Chinese characters. It was first compiled by Li Si (ca. 280–208 BCE) – an important statesman of the Qin dynasty who wanted to use it to support his policies of language unification – and later augmented with two other works. The Shuanggudui version counts 541 characters, a little less than 20 percent of the complete work. It is longer and more legible than the fragments of the same work that were found in Juyan (at the confines of Inner Mongolia and Gansu), and among the Dunhuang manuscripts. Its presence in several early Han tombs shows that the \"Cang Jie Pian\" \"was, if not a common manual for elementary instruction, at least not a rare work.\"\n\nThe text that Chinese editors have titled \"Myriad Things\" or \"Ten Thousand Things\" (\"Wanwu\" ) is an extensive list of natural substances that historians of Chinese medicine see as a precursor of later Chinese herbology, or literature on materia medica like the \"Shennong bencao jing\". It explains how to use some substances for healing purposes, but also contains technical information on how to catch animals or expel vermin. In the words of historian Donald Harper, this work \"catalogues human curiosity about the products of nature,\" noting among other things that pinellia can fatten pigs and that \"a horse-gullet tube can be used to breathe under water.\" The names of drugs and illnesses found in \"Wanwu\" correspond with those found in the \"Recipes for Fifty-Two Ailments\", a text dating from about 200 BCE that was buried in a tomb in Mawangdui in 168 BCE. These and other correspondences between the two texts show that the same knowledge of drugs was circulating in both the southern Chu region (Mawangdui) and the Yangzi River valley (Shuanggudui).\n\nThe most fragmentary and badly damaged of the texts found in Shuanggudui is a text that the Chinese editors have called \"Table\" (\"biao\" ), an annalistic compilation of events from about 850 to the end of the third century BCE, that is, from the late Western Zhou through the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States. Some of the strips still carry the horizontal markers that divided the text into rows. The existence of this chronological \"Table\" in the early second century BCE shows that Sima Qian did not invent this mode of historical representation, as he often gave the impression in his \"magnum opus\" the \"Shiji\".\n\nAn incomplete text dealing with breathing exercises was also excavated in Shuanggudui. Modern editors have named it \"Xingqi\" , or \"Moving the Vapors\". Along with similar texts found in Mawangdui, Zhangjiashan, and Shuihudi, it testifies to the widespread existence of gymnastic practices in Han times.\n\nThe tomb also contained a \"Classic for Physiognomizing Dogs\" (\"Xiang Gou Jing\" ), \"a text for assessing the qualities of dogs.\" It has been compared to another text on dogs from Yinqueshan (tomb sealed in the second half of the second century BCE) and to a work on the physiognomy of horses that was excavated from a grave in Mawangdui (sealed in 168 BCE).\n\nFragments of the following texts were also found in the tomb:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311313", "title": "The Jew of Linz", "text": "The Jew of Linz\n\nThe Jew of Linz is a 1998 book by Australian writer Kimberley Cornish, in which the author alleges that the Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein had a profound effect on Adolf Hitler when they were both pupils at the Realschule (lower secondary school) in Linz, Austria, in the early 1900s. Cornish also alleges that Wittgenstein was involved in the Cambridge Five Soviet spy ring during the Second World War.\n\n\nCornish used a school photograph from the \"Realschule\" (lower secondary school) in Linz, Austria, on his book cover. That boy in the top-right corner is undisputedly Hitler (see above right). Cornish alleges that Wittgenstein is the boy on the bottom left; he says the Victoria Police photographic evidence unit in Australia examined the photograph and confirmed that it was \"highly probable\" the boy is Wittgenstein. German government\nand U.S. sources\ndate the photograph to 1901, slightly after Hitler's arrival at the school, but two years prior to Wittgenstein's enrollment. \n\nWittgenstein and Hitler both attended the Linz \"Realschule\", a state school of about 300 students, and were there at the same time only from 1903 to 1904, according to Wittgenstein's biographers. While Hitler was just six days older than Wittgenstein, they were two grades apart at the school—Hitler was repeating a year and Wittgenstein had been advanced a year. Cornish's thesis is not only that Hitler knew the young Wittgenstein, but that he hated him, and that Wittgenstein was specifically the one Jewish boy from his school days referred to in \"Mein Kampf\". The last claim referred to the following quote:\n\nCornish argues further that Hitler's anti-Semitism involved a projection of the young Wittgenstein's traits onto the whole Jewish people. It should be noted that Wittgenstein did have three Jewish grandparents but Wittgenstein himself, and his mother and father, were Roman Catholics.\n\nCornish also argues that Wittgenstein is the most likely suspect as recruiter of the \"Cambridge Five\" spy ring. The author suggests that Wittgenstein was responsible for British decryption technology for the German Enigma code reaching the Red Army and that he thereby enabled the Red Army victories on the Eastern Front that liberated the camps and ultimately overthrew the Reich.\n\nHe writes that the Soviet government offered Wittgenstein the chair in philosophy at what had been Lenin's university (Kazan) at a time (during the Great Purge) when ideological conformity was at a premium amongst Soviet academics and enforced by the very harshest penalties. Wittgenstein wanted to emigrate to Russia, first in the twenties, as he wrote in a letter to Paul Engelmann, and again in the thirties, either to work as a labourer or as a philosophy lecturer. Cornish argues that given the nature of the Soviet regime, the possibility that a non-Marxist philosopher (or even one over whom the government could exert no ideological control) would be offered such a post, is unlikely in the extreme.\n\nOther sections of the book deal with Cornish's theories about what he claims are the common roots of Wittgenstein's and Hitler's philosophies in mysticism, magic, and the \"no-ownership\" theory of mind. Cornish sees this as Wittgenstein's generalisation of Arthur Schopenhauer's account of the Unity of the Will, in which despite appearances, there is only a single Will acting through the bodies of all creatures. This doctrine, generalized to other mental faculties such as thinking, is presented in Ralph Waldo Emerson's \"Essays\". The doctrine, writes Cornish, was also held by the Oxford philosopher R. G. Collingwood who was one of Wittgenstein's electors to his Cambridge chair. Cornish tries to tie this to Wittgenstein's arguments against the idea of \"mental privacy\" and in conclusion says \"I have attempted to locate the source of the Holocaust in a perversion of early Aryan religious doctrines about the ultimate nature of man\". Cornish also suggests that Hitler's oratorical powers in addressing the group mind of crowds and Wittgenstein's philosophy of language and denial of mental privacy, are the practical and theoretical consequences of this doctrine.\n\nThe book proved controversial, with reviewers criticizing it for drawing unwarranted connections between disparate events. The main criticisms were that:\n\n\nOne of the main issues of contention is the claim that Wittgenstein triggered or substantially contributed to Hitler's antisemitism while they were at school together. It is a view that has some support. British professor Laurence Goldstein, in his \"Clear and Queer Thinking: Wittgenstein's Development and His Relevance to Modern Thought\" (1999), called Cornish's book important, writing: \"For one thing, at the K.u.k. Realschule in Linz, Wittgenstein met Hitler and may have inspired in him a hatred of Jews which led, ultimately, to the Holocaust. This, naturally enough, weighed heavily on Wittgenstein's conscience in his later years ... It is overwhelmingly probable that Hitler and Wittgenstein did meet, and with dire consequences for the history of the world.\"\n\nReviewing Goldstein's own book, Mary McGinn called it a sloppy and irresponsible argument: \" [O]ne is amazed at the sheer looseness of thought that allows him to assert that 'at certain points in \"Mein Kampf\" where Hitler seems to be raging against Jews in general it is the individual young Ludwig Wittgenstein whom he has in mind', and to suggest that Wittgenstein 'may have inspired … (the) hatred of Jews which led, ultimately, to the Holocaust'. It is exactly this sort of sloppy, irresponsible, 'plausible' style of thought that Wittgenstein's philosophy, by its careful attention to the particular and to not saying more or less than is warranted, is directed against.\"\n\nRay Monk, one of Wittgenstein's biographers, concentrates on the inconsistencies in Cornish's theory that Wittgenstein was the head of the Cambridge spy ring, asking why Cornish has apparently not bothered to verify any of his theories by checking the KGB archives. Ultimately, Monk says \"As I read \"The Jew of Linz\", I found myself wondering how on earth Cornish had confected so strange a piece of work. I found it by turns puzzling, funny, challenging and outrageously nutty... Cornish calls his book 'pioneer detective work', but I think it is really pioneer detective fiction.\"\n\nDaniel Johnson viewed \"The Jew of Linz\" as a \"revisionist tract masquerading as psycho-history\". He wrote, \"Cornish correctly identifies 'the twist of the investigation' as the thesis that 'Nazi metaphysics, as discernible in Hitler's writings... is nothing but Wittgenstein's theory of the mind modified so as to exclude the race of its inventor'. So the \"Jew of Linz\" was indirectly responsible, at least in part, for the Holocaust. Cornish tries to deflect the implications of his argument thus: 'Whatever 'the Jews' may have done, nothing humanly justifies what was done to them.' But he then offers 'a thought that might occur to a Hassidic Jew, and that is more fittingly a matter for Jewish, as opposed to gentile, reflection: the very engine that drove Hitler's acquisition of the magical powers that made his ascent and the Holocaust possible was the Wittgenstein Covenant violation'. At this point, the nonsensical shades into the downright sinister.\n\nSean French wrote in the \"New Statesman\": \"There is something heroic about this argument and it would be a good subject for a novel about the dangers of creating theories out of nothing. Vladimir Nabokov should have written it. It is not just that there are weak links in the theory. There are no links in the theory. No evidence that Hitler, in his final unhappy year, even knew a boy two years above him. If they did know each other, there is no evidence that he was the boy Hitler distrusted, no evidence that Hitler's remarks on snitching related to specific incidents at the Linz Realschule, no evidence that Wittgenstein informed on his fellow pupils.\" In the same journal, Roz Kaveney calls it \"a stupid and dishonest book\", and says \"[Cornish's] intention is to claim Wittgenstein for his own brand of contemplative mysticism, which he defines as the great insight that IndoEuropeans (or, as he unregenerately terms them, Aryans) brought to Hinduism and Buddhism.\"\n\nAntony Flew offers a mixed review: \"Mr Cornish contends that the reason why the government of the USSR treated Wittgenstein with such peculiar generosity was that he had been the recruiter of all the Cambridge spies. The question whether or not this hypothesis is true or false can be definitively settled only if and when the relevant Soviet archives are examined. But I am myself as confident as without such knock-down decisive verification it is possible to be that Mr Cornish is right. On the other hand, 'On the very first page of Part III, Mr Cornish explains that the essence of this doctrine was expressed by Emerson in his restatement of the original Aryan doctrine of consciousness: '… the act of seeing and the thing seen, the see-er and the spectacle, the subject and the object is one'. I confess, not very shamefacedly, that confronted with such doctrines I want to quote Groucho Marx: 'It appears absurd. But don't be misled. It is absurd.'\"\n\nGerman historian \"Michael Rissmann\" argues that Cornish overestimates Hitler's intellectual capacities and uses fraudulent talks Hermann Rauschning claims to have had with Hitler to prove Hitler's alleged occultist interest.\" In \"Philosophy Now\", John Mann argues that the contentions that so riled up the book's many critics were simply a clever ruse by Cornish designed to attract more readers. Mann writes: \"Cornish is clever enough to know if he wrote a book on his 'no ownership' theory of language it would not have a wide readership. If he says this 'no ownership' theory was taught by Wittgenstein, learned and twisted for his own ends by Hitler, and actually needs Cornish to explain it all in great detail for the rest of the book he has the book reviewed in every paper and even serialised in the Sunday Times. ... If you’re looking for a book which offers history, politics, magic and philosophy, try \"The Jew of Linz\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26776301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26776301", "title": "Thomas More Madden", "text": "Thomas More Madden\n\nThomas More Madden (1838 – 14 April 1902) was an Irish physician and writer, son and biographer of Richard Robert Madden.\n\nHe was born at Havana, Cuba, where his father was an appointee of the British Government working on the abolition of the slave trade, according to the terms of the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. From 1835 he was Superintendent of the freed Africans there.\n\nMadden began his medical studies in Dublin, but after qualification bad health forced him to recuperate abroad. He combined studies with stays in Montpellier and Málaga. He then travelled to Spain, North Africa and Australia. He returned to Dublin in 1868 to concentrate on midwifery and gynaecology. He became assistant Master to the Rotunda Hospital and afterwards took up the position of obstetrical physician at the Mater Hospital, Dublin.\n\nIn 1871 he organized an Irish ambulance service for the French side in the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nHe wrote a large number of books on medical topics, dealing principally with obstetrics.\n\nIn 1901 he was seriously injured in a sailing accident, and died the following year at his house in County Wicklow.\n"}
{"id": "30672228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30672228", "title": "Vojislav Jovanović Marambo", "text": "Vojislav Jovanović Marambo\n\nVojislav M. Jovanović Marambo (October 12, 1884 - June 20, 1968) was a famous Serbian drama critic, playwright, historian, university professor, diplomat and research scholar. He first made a name for himself as a drama critic, playwright, and historian of literature with a particular emphasis on the study of folklore, then translator, journalist, bibliographer, archivist, diplomat, and above all a passionate collector of books and bibliophile. He is often ranked as one of the great playwrights in the tradition of European naturalism and a proponent of the kitchen sink drama, long before it became a trend in 1950.\n\nVojislav Jovanović Marambo was born and died in Belgrade. He accumulated a personal library of more than 6,000 books at the address where he lived all his life — 82 years. Beside all else, Marambo was an avid photographer, who never married, but was often seen in the company of beautiful women who were the subject of his many photographs.\n\nThe end of the 19th century in Serbian theater was characterized by an end to the dominant influence of German models: the Burgtheater in Vienna was until that time the centre of theater tendencies and influenced the organizational model of most European theaters. With Henrik Ibsen's death in 1906, the same year an important Serbian Ibsen-style naturalist play first appeared. The play in question is \"Naši sinovi\" (Our Sons) and its author—Vojislav Jovanović Marambo—is the only true representative of Naturalism (theatre) in the history of Serbian drama. Marambo does not belong to the group of classic authors readily performed today, but the historical importance of his works is beyond doubt: at the time it was written, his small opus represented a sharp break with the then-dominant trend of well-made plays. The naturalist characteristics of \"Naši sinovi\" and other Marambo plays are typical of the genre: an authentic depiction of the social setting (the faculty, financial circles, or the press) and topics such as the breakup of the middle-class family unit, poverty as a source of moral downfall, and the destruction of progressive ideals under outside pressure.\n\nMaramo and his colleagues (Ivo Andrić, Jovan Dučić, Miloš Crnjanski, Milan Ćurčin and others) founded Serbian PEN.\n\nHe translated Voltaire and Henrik Ibsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2634825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634825", "title": "White Croats", "text": "White Croats\n\nWhite Croats (, , , tr. ) were a group of Slavic tribes who lived among other West and East Slavic tribes in the area of Bohemia, Lesser Poland, Galicia (north of Carpathian Mountains) and modern-day Western Ukraine. They were documented primarily by foreign medieval authors and managed to preserve their ethnic name until the early 20th century, primarily in Lesser Poland. It is considered that they got assimilated into Czech, Polish and Ukrainian ethnos, and are one of the predecessors of the Rusyn people. In the 7th century, some White Croats migrated from their homeland White Croatia to the territory of modern-day Croatia, forming the ancestors of the South Slavic ethnic group of Croats.\n\nIt is generally believed that the Croatian ethnonym - \"Hrvat\"/\"Horvat\"/\"Harvat\" - etymologically is not of Slavic origin, but a borrowing from Iranian languages. It is considered that the ethnonym \"Hrvat\" is first attested on the two Tanais Tablets, found in the Greek colony of Tanais in the late 2nd and early 3rd century AD, at the time when the colony was surrounded by Iranian-speaking Sarmatians. The first Iranian tribes who lived on the shores of the Sea of Azov were Scythians, who arrived there c. 7th century BCE. Around the 6th century BCE the Sarmatians began their migration westwards, gradually subordinating the Scythians by the 2nd-century BCE. During this period there was substantial cultural and linguistic contact between the Early Slavs and Iranians, and in this environment were formed Antes.\n\nAntes were Slavic people who lived in that area and to the West between Dniester and Dnieper from the 4th until the 7th century. It is thought that White Croats were part of the Antes tribal polity who migrated to Galicia in the 3rd-4th century, under pressure by invading Huns and Goths. They lived there until the Antes were attacked by the Pannonian Avars in 560, and the polity was finally destroyed in 602 by the same Avars. This resulted with breaking Croatian tribal unity into several groups, in Prykarpattia (Western Ukraine), in Silesia and the lower course of the Vistula river (Lesser Poland), and Eastern Czech Republic. The early Croats' migration to Dalmatia (during the reign of Heraclius 610-641) can thus be seen as a continuation of the previous war between the Antes and Avars. The epithet \"white\" for the Croats and their homeland is related to the use of colors for cardinal directions among Eurasian people. That is, it meant \"Western Croats\", in comparison to lands where they lived before. The epithet \"great\" signified an \"old, ancient\" or \"former\" homeland, for the Croats when they were new arrivals in the Roman province of Dalmatia.\n\nThere is a dispute among Slavic scholars as to whether the White Croats were of Irano-Alanic, West Slavic, or East Slavic origin. Some scholars linguistically and archaeologically draw parallels between White Croats and Slavs, and the Carpi, who previously lived in the territory of Carpathian Mountains. Whether the early Croats were Slavs who had taken a name of Iranian origin, or whether they were ruled by a Sarmatian elite and/or were slavicized Sarmatians, cannot be resolved. The possibility of Irano-Sarmatian elements among, or influences upon, early Croatian ethnogenesis cannot be entirely excluded.\nAny mention of the Croats before the 9th century is uncertain, and there were several loose attempts at tracing; \"Struhates\" and \"Auhates\" by Herodotus, Chatti and Chattuarii by Strabo, \"Choatræ\" and \"Arivates\" by Pliny the Elder, \"Horites\" by Orosius in 418 AD, and the \"Harus\" (original form \"Hrws\", some read \"Hrwts\"; \"Hros\", \"Hrus\") at the Sea of Azov, near mythical Amazons, mentioned by Zacharias Rhetor in 550 AD. The \"Hros\" some relate to the ethnonym of the Rus' people.\n\nNestor the Chronicler in his \"Primary Chronicle\" (12th century) mentions the White Croats, calling them \"Horvate Belii\" or \"Hrovate Belii\", the name depending upon which manuscript of his is referred to: \"Over a long period the Slavs settled beside the Danube, where the Hungarian and Bulgarian lands now lie. From among these Slavs, parties scattered throughout the country and were known by appropriate names, according to the places where they settled. Thus some came and settled by the river Morava, and were named Moravians, while others were called Czechs. Among these same Slavs are included the White Croats, the Serbs, and the Carinthians. For when the Vlakhs (Romans) attacked the Danubian Slavs, settled among them, and did them violence, the latter came and made their homes by the Vistula, and were then called Lyakhs (Lendians or Lechites). Of these same Lyakhs some were called Polyanians, some Lutichians, some Mazovians, and still others Pomorians\".\n\nMost what is known about the early history of White Croats comes from the work by the Byzantine emperor Constantine VII, \"De Administrando Imperio\" (10th century). In the 30th chapter, \"The Story of the Province of Dalmatia\" Constantine wrote: \n\nThe migration probably happened in the period of the Slavic uprising led by Samo against the Pannonian Avars in 632, and 635-641 when were defeated by Kubrat of the Bulgars. The White Croats could have been the neighbors of the Franks as early as 846 or 869 when Bohemia was under the control of Eastern Francia. Otto I ruled the Moravians only from 950, and the White Croats were also part of the Moravian state, at least from 929. In the 31st chapter, \"Of the Croats and of the Country They Now Dwell in\" Constantine wrote: \n\nAccording to this chapter, the Pechenegs and Hungarians were neighbours of the White Croats to the east in the second half of the 9th century. In that time Franks plundered Moravia, and White Croatia was probably a part of the Great Moravia. A similar story to the 30th chapter is mentioned in the work by Thomas the Archdeacon, \"Historia Salonitana\" (13th century), where he recounts how seven or eight tribes of nobles, which he called \"Lingones\", arrived from present-day Poland and settled in Croatia under Totila's leadership. According to the Archdeacon, they were called Goths, but also Slavs, depending on the personal names of those who came from Poland or the Czech lands. Some scholars consider \"Lingones\" to be a distortion of the name for the Polish tribe of Lendians.\n\nAlfred the Great in his \"Geography of Europe\" (888–893) relying on Orosius, recorded that, \"\"To the north-east of the Moravians are the Dalamensae; east of the Dalamensians are the Horithi (Choroti, Choriti; Croats), and north of the Dalamensians are the Servians (Serbs); to the west also are the Silesians. To the north of the Horiti is Mazovia, and north of Mazovia are the Sarmatians, as far as the Riphean Mountains\". The initial north-east position was probably wrongly transcribed, as a north-west position agrees with other sources on the location of the Croats on the Oder and Vistula Rivers.\n\nNestor described how many East Slavic tribes of \"...the Polyanians, the Derevlians, the Severians, the Radimichians, and the Croats lived at peace\". In 904-907, \"Leaving Igor (914–945) in Kiev, Oleg (879–912) attacked the Greeks. He took with him a multitude of Varangians, Slavs, Chuds, Krivichians, Merians, Polyanians, Severians, Derevlians, Radimichians, Croats, Dulebians, and Tivercians, who are pagans. All these tribes are known as Great Scythia by the Greeks. With this entire force, Oleg sallied forth by horse and by ship, and the number of his vessels was two thousand\". The list indicates that the closest tribal neighbours were Tivertsti and Dulebes-Volhynians. After Vladimir the Great (980–1015) conquered several Slavic tribes and cities to the West, in 992 he \"attacked the Croats. When he had returned from the Croatian War, the Pechenegs arrived on the opposite side of the Dnieper\". Since then those Croats became part of Kievan Rus, and aren't mentioned anymore in Russian Chronicles. It seems that Croatian tribes who lived in the area of Bukovina and Galicia were conquered because inhibited Kievan Rus free access to the Vistula river, did not want to submit to Kievan centralism and accept Christianity. After the attack, since 1124 the territory became part of Principality of Halych.\n\nPolish chronicler Wincenty Kadłubek in his \"Chronica Polonorum\" (12-13th century) recounted that Bolesław I the Brave (992 to 1025) conquered some \"Hunnos seu Hungaros, Cravatios et Mardos, gentem validam, suo mancipavit imperio\". The occurrence of the Croatian name among the toponyms, indicates that the Croatia near the Vistula river corresponded with the later territory of Lesser Poland.\n\nMany Croats also lived in the territory of Bohemia. The Prague Charter from 1086 AD (actually with data from 973) mentions that on the northeastern frontier of the Prague diocese lived \"Psouane, Chrouati et altera Chrowati, Zlasane...\". They were also probably settled east of Zlicans and west of Moravians having significant territory around the Elbe river, while the others were present along the upper Vistula in Poland. Some scholars located these Czech Croats within the territory of present-day Chrudim, Hradec Králové, Libice and Kłodzko. Vach argued that they had the most developed techniques of building fortifications among the Czech Slavs. Many scholars consider that the Slavník dynasty, which competed with the Přemyslid dynasty for control over Bohemia (and eventually succumbed to them) and partly controlled Croats territory, was of White Croat origin. According to a legend about Wenceslaus I, his mother Drahomíra fled in exile to \"Xorvaty\". After the Slavník dynasty's main Gord (fortified settlement) Libice was destroyed in 995, the White Croats aren't mentioned anymore in that territory.\n\nThietmar of Merseburg recorded in 981 toponym \"Chrvuati vicus\" (also later recorded in 11th-14th century), which is present-day Großkorbetha, between Halle and Merseburg in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. The \"Chruuati\" (901) and \"Chruuati\" (981) near Halle. In charter by Henry II is recorded \"Chruazzis\" (1012), by Henry III as \"Churbate\" (1055), by Henry IV as \"Grawat\" (also \"Curewate\", 1086). This settlement today is Korbetha on river Saale, near Weißenfels.\n\nIn the 10th-12th centuries Croatian name can be often found in the territory of March and Duchy of Carinthia, as well March and Duchy of Styria. In 954, Otto I in his charter mentions župa \"Croat\" - \"hobas duas proorietatis nostrae in loco Zuric as in pago Crouuati et in ministerio Hartuuigi\"\", and again in 961 \"pago Crauuati\". The \"pago Chruuat\" is also mentioned by Otto II (979), and \"pago Croudi\" by Otto III.\n\nIn the 10th century, Arab historian Al-Masudi in his work \"The Meadows of Gold\" mentioned \"Harwātin\" or \"Khurwātīn\", between Moravians, Chezchs and Saxons. In the geography book \"Hudud al-'Alam\" in the area of Slavs is mentioned their two capital cities, \"Wabnit\" (actually \"Wāntit\", considered Antes), the first city East of Slavs, and \"Hurdāb\", a big city where rulers reside on river \"Rūtā\" (probably Prut). In the chronicles of the time word \"šahr\" meant \"country, state, city\" - thus \"Hurdāb\" represented Croats. In work by Abu Saʿīd Gardēzī it is mentioned as \"ʒ(h)-rāwat\". Ahmad ibn Rustah recounts that the land of Pechenegs is ten days away from the Slavs, and that the city in which lives \"Swntblk\" (Svatopluk) is called \"ʒ-r-wāb\" (\"Džervab\" > \"Hrwat\"), where every month Slavs do three-day long trade fair. \"Swntblk\" is called \"king of kings\", has riding horses, sturdy armor, eats mare's milk, and is more important than \"Subanj\" (considered Slavic title župan), who is his deputy. George Vernadsky considered these details as evidence of Alanic and Eurasian nomadic origin of the ruling caste among those Slavs. In the Hebrew book \"Josippon\" are listed four Slavic ethnic names from Venice to Saxony; \"Mwr.wh\" (Moravians), \"Krw.tj\" (Croats), \"Swrbjn\" (Sorbs), \"Lwcnj\". Those Croats are probably those who were located in Bohemia.\n\nWhite Croats seemingly were not recorded by the Bavarian Geographer, however, some scholars assumed that the unknown \"Sittici\" (\"a region with many peoples and heavily fortified cities\") and \"Stadici\" (\"an infinite population with 516 gords\") were part of the Carpathian Croats tribal polity, or the Croats were part of this unknown tribal designation in Prykarpattia. Others in unknown \"Lupiglaa\" (with 30 gords) saw Czech Croats and Zlicans.\n\nIt is considered that the Czech-Polish Croatian tribes were related to the Croatian tribes from Zakarpattia and Prykarpattia in Ukraine. They became separated during the migration period and seemingly formed one large Proto-Slavic tribe. It is theorized that the migration of those (White) Croatian tribes in the 7th century was the second and final Slavic migratory wave to the Balkans, which is related to the thesis by Bogo Grafenauer about the double migration of Slavs. According to this thesis, although it is possible that some Croatian tribes were present among Slavs in the first Slavic-Avar wave in the 6th century, it is argued that the Croatian migration in the second wave probably was not equally numerous to make a significant common-linguistical influence, while others considered they arrived in a significantly larger number. Zdenko Vinski and argued that the double migration thesis is supported by the rare findings of objects and ceramics of Prague-Korchak culture on the territory of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia which were dated to the end of 6th and beginning of the 7th century (indicating first wave Slavs), and did not make a continuity with Slavic archaeological findings from the 8th-9th century, indicating assimilation. The Croatian tribes are also seen as a warrior group who assimilated into already present Slavs. In the territory of present-day Croatia they also gradually assimilated with the Pre-Slavic population because archaeology indicates a significant continuity of late antiquity population which have partially withdrawn to the mountains, coastal cities and islands.\n\nBy the 7th century White Croats had established and fortified Horods (Gord), which became a commerce and trade centers. Galicia was an important geographical location because it connected via an overland route Kiev in the East with Krakow, Buda, Prague and other cities in the West, as well as northwest to the Baltic Sea and southeast to the Black Sea. Along these routes were founded the settlements of Przemyśl, Zvenyhorod, Terebovlia, Halych, and Uzhhorod, of which the last was ruled by a mythical ruler Laborec. According to research by Sedov in 1979, all early mentions of Croatian ethnonym are in the areas where ceramics of Prague-Penkovka culture were found. It originated in the area between Dniester and Dnieper, and later expanded to the West, and its bearers were the Antes tribes. A. V. Majorov criticized Sedov's consideration, which almost exclusively related White Croats with Penkovka culture and the Antes, because the territory White Croats inhabited in the middle and upper Dniester and the upper Vistula was part of Prague-Korchak culture related to Sclaveni which was characteristic for the Kurgan-type of burial which was also found in the upper Elbe territory where lived the Czech Croats. They were representatives of both these archaeological cultures and possibly formed before them at the least late 4th or during the 5th century in the area of the intertwining of these cultures around the Dniester basin.\nArchaeological excavations held between 1981-1995 by Ukrainian archaeologist and historian Orest Korčinski and others who researched Early Middle Age Gords in Prykarpattia and Western Podolia dated between 9th-11th century found that fortified Gords with a range of 0.2 ha made 65%, those of 2 ha 20%, and more than 2 ha 15% in that region. There were 35 Gords, including big Gords like Revno, Stilsko, Zhydachiv, Kotorin complex, Klyuchi, Stuponica, Krylos, Pidhorodyshche, Terebovlia, Ganachivka, Solonsko among others. Only 12 of them survived until the 14th century. Korčinski's excavation revealed a Gord (since 2008 dated in between 8th-9th century) of unusually big dimension with a surface of 250 ha, including a fortress of 15 ha, defensive line of 10 km, located on river Kolodnitsa (connected to most important river in the region, Dniester) between current village Stilsko and Lviv which Ukrainian archaeologists attribute to the White Croats. In its vicinity were also found some of the only examples of a pre-Christian period cult building among Slavs, for one of which Korčinski assumed a possible connection with the medieval descriptions of a temple dedicated to the deity Hors. Until 2008 near Stilsko have been found more than 50 settlements of open type dated between 8th-10th century, as well around 200 burial mounds. It indicates a high economic, demographic, defense and political organization, and is argued to have been a capital of Eastern (Carpathian) Croats. According to archaeological material, by the end of 10th and beginning of 11th century it ceased to exist for now unknown reasons and the fire traces of possible enemy invasion are not considered as sufficient consequence. Excavations of many Slavic Kurgans and tombs in the Carpathian Mountains in the 1930s and 1960s were also attributed to the White Croats. Compared to other East Slavic tribes, the area of the Croats stands out because of very present tiled tombs, and in the 11th and 13th century their appearance in Western Dnieper region is attributed to the Croats, and sometimes Tivertsi. Scholars attribute to the Croats also the forts West and North of river Prut and in Northern Bukovina; the Revno, Červona Dibrova, Kodin, Bila, Široka Poljana, Klokučka, Grobnica, Červenovo, Orosijevo, Červone, Ungvár. In the territory of Czech Republic, a significant number of graves with kurgans dated 8th-10th century have been found around the Elbe river where was the presumed territory by the White Croats and Zlicans, as well among Dulebes in the South, and Moravians in the East.\n\nCroatian tribes were like other Slavs polytheists - pagans. Their worldview intertwined with worship of power and war, to which raised places of worship, and demolished those of others. These worships were in contrast to Christianity, and conflict when Christianism became official ideology among the Slavs. The White Croats at the earliest historical sources are mentioned as pagans, and they were similar to the inhabitants of Kievan Rus' who also received Christianity late (988). Slavs often related places of worship with the natural environment, like hills, forests, and water. Some argue that Przemyśl was their as well as Slavic bishops capital in the 9th-century because there were uncovered foundations of a round chapel and palace made of cut stone. According to Nestor, Vladimir the Great in 980 raised on a hill near his fort pantheon of Slavic gods; Perun, Hors, Dažbog, Stribog, Simargl, and Mokosh, but as he converted to Christianity in 988 one of the probable reasons Vladimir attacked Croats in 992 was because they didn't want to abandon their old beliefs and accept Christianity. Some scholars derived Croatian ethnonym from the Iranian word for Sun - \"hvar\". Paščenko argued possibility that in the ethnonym of the Croats could be seen archaic religion and mythology - the worship of the Slavic solar deity Hors (Sun, heavenly fire, force, war), which is of Iranian origin.\n\nThe legend about five brothers and two sisters recorded in Constantine VII's work \"De Administrando Imperio\" was probably part of an oral tradition, which contradicts the role of Heraclius in the arrival of Croats to Dalmatia. It is similar to other medieval \"origo gentis\" stories (see for e.g. \"Origo Gentis Langobardorum\"), and some consider it has the same source as the story of Bulgars recorded by Theophanes the Confessor in which the Bulgars subjugated Seven Slavic tribes. In this legend is also possibly reflected a migration of seven tribes. Curiously, Croats are seemingly the only Slavic people who had a saga about the period of their migration. Also, compared to other medieval stories none of them mentions female personalities, which could indicate a different social organization or different tribes who joined the Croats. For example, Henryk Łowmiański considered the Mazovians, Dulebes, Croats and Veleti among the oldest Slavic tribes because Mazovians ethnonym was often related to Amazons (\"-maz-\") while the land of women in North Europe was mentioned by Paul the Deacon, Alfred the Great, as well women's city West of Russian lands by Ibrahim ibn Yaqub. Another vagueness is a reason and meaning that one of the brothers had a Croatian ethnonym as a name, perhaps indicating he was more important than the other brothers or that the Croats were only one identity among others with which the Adriatic Croats tried to bring legitimacy to the Croatian Kingdom.\n\nThe origin of the names of five brothers and two sisters are a matter of dispute. They are often considered to be of non-Slavic origin, and genuine names, as the anonymous Slavic narrator (probably a Croat) couldn't invent the non-Slavic names of their ancestors in the 9th century. J.J. Mikkola considered them to be of Turkic origin, Vladimir Košćak of possible Iranian-Alanic origin, while Alemko Gluhak saw parallels in Slavic Old Prussian and Baltic languages. Henri Grégoire rejected Turkic origin, and related them to Slavic place names which previously were part of White Croatia. According to Gluhak, names Kloukas, Lobelos, Kosentzes and possibly Mouchlo don't seem to be part of Scythian or Alanic name directory. Josip Modestin connected their names to toponyms from Lika, where early Croats settled.\n\nKloukas; has Greek suffix \"-as\", thus the root \"Klouk-\" has several derivations; Mikkola considered Turkic \"Külük\", while Tadeusz Lewicki Slavic \"Kuluk\" and \"Kluka\". Grégoire related it with cities Cracow or Głogów. Modestin related it to village Kukljić. Gluhak noted several Prussian and Latvian personal names and toponyms with root *\"klauk-\", which relates to sound-writing verbs *\"klukati\" (peck) and *\"klokotati\" (gurgle). The first mentioned king of the Alans was named Kuluk (c. 51-78 AD).\n\nLobelos; Mikkola considered it a name of uncertain Avar ruler. Osman Karatay considered common Slavic shift \"Lobel\" < \"Alpel\" (as in \"Lab\" < \"Elbe\"). Grégoire related it with city Lublin. Modestin related it to Lovinac. Gluhak noted many Baltic personal names with root *\"lab-\" and *\"lob-\" e.g. Labelle, Labulis, Labal, Lobal, which derive from *\"lab-\" (good) or \"lobas\" (bays, ravine, valley).\n\nKosentzis; Mikkola considered Turkic suffix \"-či\", and derived it from Turkic \"koš\" (camp), \"košun\" (army). Grégoire related it with city Košice. Modestin related it to Kosinj. Many scholars consider relation with Old-Slavic title word *\"kosez\" or *\"kasez\", that meant social class members who freely elected the knez of Carantania (658–828). In the 9th century they became nobles, and their tradition preserved until the 16th century. There were many toponyms with the title in Slovenia, but also in Lika in Croatia. Gluhak also noted Baltic names with root *\"kas-\" which probably derives from \"kàsti\" (dig), and Thracian \"Kossintes\", \"Cosintos\", \"Cositon\".\n\nMouchlo; Mikkola related it to the name of 6th century Hunnic (Bulgar or Kutrigur) ruler Mougel/Mouâgeris. Modestin related it to Mohljić. Gluhak noted Lithuanian \"muklus\" and Latvian \"muka\" which refer to the mud and marshes, and Prussian names e.g. Mokil, Mokyne. There existed Antes king with similar name Musokios/Musocius.\n\nChrobatos; read as Hrovatos, is generally considered to represent Croatian ethnonym \"Hrvat/Horvat\", and the Croatian tribe. Some scholars like J. B. Bury related it with the Turkic name of the Bulgars khan Kubrat. This etymology is problematic, beside from historical viewpont, as in all forms of Kubrat's name, the letter \"r\" is third consonant.\n\nTouga; Mikkola related it with male Turkic name \"Tugai\". Modestin related it to the Tugomirići, one of the Croatian \"twelve noble tribes\" described in the Pacta conventa and Supetar Cartulary. Gluhak noted Old Norse-Germanic *\"touga\" (fog, darkness), which meaning wouldn't be much different from other names with Baltic derivation.\n\nBouga; Mikkola related it with male Turkic name \"Buga\", while Lewicki noted Turkic name of Hun \"Bokhas\", Peceneg \"Bogas\", and two generals of Arabian kalifs, \"Bogaj\". Grégoire related it with the Bug River. Modestin related it to Bužani (probably related to Buzhans), medieval Croatian tribe. Gluhak noted Proto-Slavic word *\"buga\" which in Slavic languages mean \"swamp\" like places, and the river Bug itself derive from.\n\nPorga from 31st chapter according to Živković derives from Iranian \"pouru-gâo\", \"rich in cattle\". However, in the 30th chapter, it is named Porin, and recently Milošević, Alimov, and Budak supported a thesis which considered these names as two variants of the Slavic deity Perun, as a heavenly ruler and not an actual secular ruler.\n\nPolish writer Kazimierz Władysław Wóycicki released work \"Pieśni ludu Białochrobatów, Mazurów i Rusi z nad Bugu\" in 1836. In 1861, in the statistical data about population in Volhynia governorship released by Mikhail Lebedkin, were counted Horvati with 17,228 people.\n\nAccording to some American documents from the beginning of the 20th century, Polish immigrants to the US born in around Kraków declared themselves as Krakus, Crakowiak, or Bielochrovat (i.e. White Croat) by nationality.\n\nThe White Croats contributed and assimilated into Czech, Polish and Ukrainian ethnos. Some scholars consider White Croats as the predecessors of the Rusyn people, particularly Lemkos.\n\nAccording to Czech and Polish chronicles, the legendary Lech and Czech came from (White) Croatia. The Chronicle of Dalimil (14th century) recounts \"\"V srbském jazyku jest země, jiežto Charvaty jest imě; v téj zemi bieše Lech, jemužto jmě bieše Čech\". Alois Jirásek recounted as \"Za Tatrami, v rovinách při řece Visle rozkládala se od nepaměti charvátská země, část prvotní veliké vlasti slovanské\"\" (Behind the Tatra Mountains, in the plains of the river Vistula, stretched from immemorial time Charvátská country (White Croatia), the initial part of the great Slavic homeland), and \"V té charvátské zemi bytovala četná plemena, příbuzná jazykem, mravy, způsobem života\" (In Charvátská existed numerous tribes, related by language, manners, and way of life). Dušan Třeštík noted that the chronicle tells Czech came with six brothers from Croatia which once again indicates seven chiefs/tribes like in the Croatian origo gentis legend from the 30th chapter of \"De Administrando Imperio\". It is considered that the chronicle refers to the Carpathian Croatia.\n\nOne of the legendary figures Kyi, Shchek and Khoryv who founded Kiev, brother Khoryv or Horiv, and its oronym Khorevytsia, is often related to the Croatian ethnonym. This legend, recorded by Nestor, has similar Armenian transcript from the 7th-8th century, in which Horiv is mentioned as \"Horean\". Paščenko related his name, beside to the Croatian ethnonym, to solar deity Hors. Near Kiev there's a stream where previously existed large homonymous village Horvatka or Hrovatka (destroyed in the time of Joseph Stalin), which flows into Stuhna River. In the vicinity are parts of the Serpent's Wall.\n\nScholars consider that Croats could have been mentioned in the Old English and Nordic epic poems. The verse in Old English poem \"Widsith\" (10th century):\n\nThe Hræda is genitive plural of *\"Hraede\", and is usually related with the Goths (\"Hred-Gotum\", \"Hreth-Gotan\", \"Hreidhgotar\"). However, this verse is similar to the one in Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks (13th century), where prior the battle between Goths and Huns, Heidrek died in \"Harvaða fjöllum\" (Carpathian Mountains) which is sometimes translated as \"beneath the mountains of Harvathi\", considered somewhere beneath Carpathian Mountains near river Dnieper. Lewicki argued that Anglo-Saxons, as in the case of Alfred the Great where called Croats \"Horithi\", often distorted foreign Slavic names.\n\nThe legendary Czech hermit from the 9th century, Svatý Ivan, is mentioned as the son of certain king Gestimul or Gostimysl, who according to the Czech chronicles descended from the Croats or Obotrites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27124457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27124457", "title": "Ștefan Ciobanu", "text": "Ștefan Ciobanu\n\nȘtefan Ciobanu (November 11, 1883 – February 28, 1950) was a Bessarabian-born Romanian politician and historian. He served as Minister of Education (1917-1918) of the short-lived Moldavian Democratic Republic.\n\nCiobanu was born on November 11, 1883, Talmaza and died on February 28, 1950 in Bucharest. He studied at the Kiev University (1907-1912). Ștefan Ciobanu served as the Minister of Education in Pantelimon Erhan Cabinet, Daniel Ciugureanu Cabinet, and Petru Cazacu Cabinet. He died in Bucharest in 1950.\n\n\n\n"}
