{"id": "42046059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42046059", "title": "Alice Gurschner", "text": "Alice Gurschner\n\nAlice Gurschner (née Pollak, 8 October 1869, Vienna – 26 March 1944, Vienna) was an Austrian writer. She wrote largely under the masculine pen name Paul Althof.\n\nPollak grew up in a middle-class Jewish family in Vienna, and received private lessons in her secondary school subjects, music and modern languages. In 1897 she married the sculptor Gustav Gurschner, a co-founder of the Vienna Secession, and had three children by him. Some of her work was published in the Secession magazine \"Ver Sacrum\". Her family did not approve of her marriage to a Catholic. After the marriage, the Gurschners lived in Paris for two years. After her father's death in 1905, she converted to Catholicism and became a monarchist and an Austro-Hungarian nationalist.\n\nAs 'Paul Althof', she had newspaper and magazine articles published in the Neue Wiener Journal, the Illustritre Wiener Extrablatt, the Wiener Fremden-Blatt, the Österreichische Volks-Zeitung and the Berliner Börsen-Courier.\n\nShe was a member of the Austrian Association of Women Artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844091", "title": "Ammon (Book of Mormon missionary)", "text": "Ammon (Book of Mormon missionary)\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, Ammon is a prominent Nephite missionary and a son of King Mosiah. He originally opposes the church but, along with his brothers and Alma the Younger, is miraculously converted. Following his conversion he serves a mission to the Lamanites and converts Lamoni and his people.\n\nAccording to Hugh Nibley, \"Ammon (or Amon)\" () is \"the commonest name in the Book of Mormon\" and \"the commonest name in the Egyptian Empire\" (which embraced Palestine at Lehi's time, which fell within its Late Period). The name also occurs in the Bible.\n\nAs one of the four sons of King Mosiah, Ammon has tremendous influence among his people, the Nephites. He rejects the Church and attempts to turn the people from the teachings of the prophets. Because of the fervent prayers of their parents, Alma the Younger and the four sons of Mosiah have a conversion experience much like that of Paul the Apostle; an angel appears to them on the road and rebukes them for their wickedness. The shock puts Alma the Younger into an insensible state for a time; the specific effect on Ammon is not described, but he becomes fully converted to the Gospel and desires to serve as a missionary to the Lamanites.\n\nAmmon and his brothers spend several years teaching the Gospel to the Lamanites. Ammon goes first to the land of Ishmael. He is captured by the Lamanites and taken before their king, Lamoni. Lamoni asks his purpose in straying so far from Nephite lands. When Ammon replies that he wants to live among Lamoni's people, the king, impressed, offers him one of his daughters. Ammon refuses but becomes a servant in the king's household, assisting others in caring for the king's flocks.\n\nWhen bandits attack, Ammon directs the others to encircle the flock so they will not scatter and confronts the bandits. Fellow servants tell him they will be killed if the bandits acquire any of the flock. As he is seemingly outnumbered, the thieves attack Ammon. From a distance he kills several with his sling and then in hand-to-hand combat cuts off the arms of every robber who attacks him. Ammon's defense of the King's flock convinces the servants and the king that he is favored by God. The king, his household, and the entire kingdom convert to the Gospel.\n\nLater, Ammon's love and respect for Lamoni impresses Lamoni's father, the king of all the Lamanites. As a result, the Lamanite king accepts the teachings of Aaron, Ammon's brother, and is converted. The Lamanites converted as a result of Ammon's ministry are called the \"Anti-Nephi-Lehies\" until they change their name to the People of Ammon after their migration to the Nephite land of Jershon. They swear to never take up arms again (and never do), although the two thousand stripling warriors are later recruited from among their sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "4545371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545371", "title": "Anahit", "text": "Anahit\n\nAnahit () was the goddess of fertility and healing, wisdom and water in Armenian mythology. In early periods she was the goddess of war. By the 5th century BC she was the main deity in Armenia along with Aramazd. The Armenian goddess Anahit is related to the similar Old Persian goddess Anahita. Anahit's worship, most likely borrowed from the Iranians during the Median invasion or the early Achaemenid period, was of paramount significance in Armenia. Unlike Iranians, Armenians incorporated idol-worship into the cult of Anahit. Artaxias I erected statues of Anahit, and promulgated orders to worship them.\n\nAccording to Strabo, the \"Armenians shared in the religion of the Perses and the Medes and particularly honored Anaitis\". The kings of Armenia were \"steadfast supporters of the cult\" and Tiridates III, before his conversion to Christianity, \"prayed officially to the triad Aramazd-Anahit-Vahagn but is said to have shown a special devotion to 'the great lady Anahit, ... the benefactress of the whole human race, mother of all knowledge, daughter of the great Aramazd'\" According to Agathangelos, tradition required the Kings of Armenia to travel once a year to the temple at Eriza (Erez) in Acilisene in order to celebrate the festival of the divinity; Tiridates made this journey in the first year of his reign where he offered sacrifice and wreaths and boughs. The temple at Eriza appears to have been particularly famous, \"the wealthiest and most venerable in Armenia\", staffed with priests and priestesses, the latter from eminent families who would serve at the temple before marrying. This practice may again reveal Semitic syncretic influences, and is not otherwise attested in other areas. Pliny reports that Mark Antony's soldiers smashed an enormous statue of the divinity made of solid gold and then divided the pieces amongst themselves. Also according to Pliny, supported by Dio Cassius, Acilisene eventually came to be known as Anaïtica. Dio Cassius also mentions that another region along the Cyrus River, on the borders of Albania and Iberia, was also called \"the land of Anaïtis.\"\n\nIn Armenia, Anahit-worship was established in Erez, Armavir, Artashat and Ashtishat. A mountain in Sophene district was known as Anahit's throne (\"Athor Anahta\"). The entire district of Erez, in the province of Akilisene (Ekeghiats), was called \"Anahtakan Gavar\".\n\nAccording to Plutarch, the temple of Erez was the wealthiest and the noblest in Armenia. During the expedition of Mark Antony in Armenia, the statue was broken to pieces by the Roman soldiers. Pliny the Elder gives us the following story about it: The Emperor Augustus, being invited to dinner by one of his generals, asked him if it were true that the wreckers of Anahit's statue had been punished by the wrathful goddess. \"No!\" answered the general, \"on the contrary, I have to‑day the good fortune of treating you with one part of the hip of that gold statue.\" The Armenians erected a new golden statue of Anahit in Erez, which was worshiped before the time of St. Gregory Illuminator.\n\nThe annual festivity of the month Navasard, held in honor of Anahit, was the occasion of great gatherings, attended with dance, music, recitals, competitions, etc. The sick went to the temples in pilgrimage, asking for recovery. The symbol of ancient Armenian medicine was the head of the bronze gilded statue of the goddess Anahit.\n\nAccording to Agathangelos, King Trdat extolls the \"great Lady Anahit, the glory of our nation and vivifier ...; mother of all chastity, and issue of the great and valiant Aramazd.\" The historian Berossus identifies Anahit with Aphrodite, while medieval Armenian scribes identify her with Artemis. According to Strabo, Anahit's worship included rituals of sacred prostitution, but later Christian writers do not mention such custom.\n\nThe name corresponds to Avestan Anahita (Aredvi Sura Anahita), a similar divine figure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2151397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151397", "title": "Anguttara Nikaya", "text": "Anguttara Nikaya\n\nThe Anguttara Nikaya (\"\"; literally \"Increased by One Collection,\" also translated \"Gradual Collection\" or \"Numerical Discourses\") is a Buddhist scripture, the fourth of the five nikayas, or collections, in the Sutta Pitaka, which is one of the \"three baskets\" that comprise the Pali Tipitaka of Theravada Buddhism. This nikaya consists of several thousand discourses ascribed to the Buddha and his chief disciples arranged in eleven nipatas, or books, according to the number of dhamma items referenced in them.\n\nThe Anguttara Nikaya corresponds to the \"Ekottara Āgama\" (\"Increased by One Discourses\") found in the Sutra Pitikas of various Sanskritic early Buddhists schools, fragments of which survive in Sanskrit. A complete version survives in Chinese translation by the name \"Zēngyī Ahánjīng\" (增一阿含經); it is thought to be from either the Mahāsāṃghika or Sarvāstivādin recensions. According to Keown, \"there is considerable disparity between the Pāli and the Sarvāstivādin versions, with more than two-thirds of the sūtras found in one but not the other compilation, which suggests that much of this portion of the Sūtra Piṭaka was not formed until a fairly late date.\" \n\n\n\nThe nipatas in this nikaya are:\n\nTranslator Bhikkhu Bodhi wrote: \"In Anguttara Nikaya, persons are as a rule not reduced to mere collections of aggregates, elements, and sense-bases, but are treated as real centers of living experience engaged in a heartfelt quest for happiness and freedom from suffering.\" (from Intro to Samyutta Nikaya)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1714758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714758", "title": "Arthur Szyk", "text": "Arthur Szyk\n\nArthur Szyk (Polish: [ˈartur ʃɪk], June 16, 1894 – September 13, 1951) was a Polish-Jewish artist who worked primarily as a book illustrator and political artist throughout his career. Arthur Szyk was born into a prosperous middle-class Jewish family in Łódź, in the part of Poland which was under Russian rule in the 19th century. An acculturated Polish Jew, Szyk always proudly regarded himself both as a Pole and a Jew. From 1921, he lived and created his works mainly in France and Poland, and in 1937 he moved to the United Kingdom. In 1940, he settled permanently in the United States, where he was granted American citizenship in 1948.\n\nArthur Szyk became a renowned artist and book illustrator as early as the interwar period. His works were exhibited and published not only in Poland, but also in France, the United Kingdom, Israel and the United States. However, he gained broad popularity in the United States primarily through his political caricatures, in which, after the outbreak of World War II, he savaged the policies and personalities of the leaders of the Axis powers. After the war, he also devoted himself to political issues, especially the support of the creation of the state of Israel.\n\nSzyk's work is characterized in its material content by social and political commitment, and in its formal aspect by its rejection of modernism and embrace of the traditions of medieval and renaissance painting, especially illuminated manuscripts from those periods. Unlike most caricaturists, Szyk always showed great attention to the colouristic effects and details in his works.\n\nToday, Szyk is an increasingly well-known and often exhibited artist only in his last home country, the United States. However, exhibitions in Poland and Germany are familiarizing Europe with one of the most prolific artists of World War II.\n\nArthur Szyk, the son of Solomon Szyk and his wife Eugenia, was born in Łódź, in Russian-occupied Poland, on June 16, 1894. Solomon Szyk was a textile factory director, a quiet occupation until June 1905, when, during the so-called Łódź insurrection, one of his workers threw acid in his face, permanently blinding him.\n\nSzyk showed artistic talent as a child; when he was six years old, he reportedly drew sketches of the Boxer Rebellion in China. Even though his family was culturally assimilated and did not practice Orthodox Judaism, Arthur also liked drawing biblical scenes from the Hebrew Bible. These interests and talents prompted his father, upon the advice of Szyk's teachers, to send Szyk to Paris to study at Académie Julian, a studio school popular among French and foreign students. In Paris, Szyk was exposed to all modern trends in art; however, he decided to follow his own way, which hewed closely to tradition. He was especially attracted by the medieval art of illuminating manuscripts, which greatly influenced his later works. When studying in Paris, Szyk remained closely involved with the social and civic life of Łódź. During the years 1912–1914 the teenage artist produced numerous drawings and caricatures on contemporary political themes that were published in the Łódź satirical magazine \"Śmiech\" (\"Laughter\").\n\nAfter four years in France, Szyk returned to Poland in 1913 and continued his studies in Teodor Axentowicz's class at Jan Matejko Academy of Fine Arts in Kraków, which was under Austrian rule at that time. He not only attended lectures and classes, but he also actively participated in Kraków's cultural life. He did not forget his home city Łódź – he designed the stage sets and costumes for the Łódź-based Bi Ba Bo cabaret. The political and national engagement of the artist also deepened during that time – Szyk regarded himself as a Polish patriot but he was also proud of being Jewish and he often opposed antisemitism in his works. At the beginning of 1914, Szyk in a group with other Polish-Jewish artists and writers set off on a journey to Palestine, organized by the Jewish Cultural Society Hazamir (Hebrew: nightingale). There he observed the efforts of Jewish settlers working for the benefit of the future Jewish state.\n\nThe visit was interrupted by the outbreak of World War I. Szyk, who was a Russian subject, had to leave Palestine, which was part of the Ottoman Empire at that time, and go back to his home country in August 1914. He was conscripted into the Russian army and fought at the battle of Łódź in November/December 1914, but at the beginning of 1915 he managed to escape from the army and spent the rest of the war in his home city. He also used the time spent in the Russian army to draw Russian soldiers and published these drawings as postcards in the same year (1915). On September 14, 1916, Arthur Szyk married Julia Likerman. Their son George was born in the following year, and their daughter Alexandra in 1922.\n\nAfter Poland had regained independence in 1918, Szyk fully developed his artistic activity, combining it with political engagement. In 1919, influenced by the events of the German Revolution of 1918–19, he published, together with poet Julian Tuwim, his first book of political illustrations: \"Rewolucja w Niemczech\" (\"Revolution in Germany\"), which was a satire on the Germans, who need the Kaiser's and the military's consent even to start a revolution. In the same year, Szyk had to take part in warfare again – during the Polish–Soviet War (1919–1920), in which he served as a Polish cavalry officer and as the artistic director of the propaganda department of the Polish army in Łódź.\n\nIn 1921 Arthur Szyk and his family moved to Paris where they stayed until 1933. The relocation to Paris is marked by a breakthrough in the formal aspect of Szyk's works. While Szyk's prior book illustrations were drawings in pen and ink (Szyk had illustrated six books before 1925, including three published in the Yiddish language), the illustrations for the books published in Paris were full colour and full of detail. The first book illustrated in this way was the \"Book of Esther\" (\"Le livre d'Esther\", 1925), followed by Gustave Flaubert's dialogue \"The Temptation of Saint Anthony\" (\"La tentation de Saint Antoine\", 1926), Pierre Benoît's novel \"Jacob's Well\" (Le puits de Jacob, 1927) and other books. Those illustrations, which are characterized by a rich diversity of colours and detailed presentation, deliberately referred to the medieval and renaissance traditions of illumination of manuscripts, often with interspersed contemporary elements. Szyk drew himself as one of the characters in the Book of Esther.. The only stylistic exception is illustrations to the two volume collection of humorous anecdotes about Jews \"Le juif qui rit\" (1926/27), in which the artist returned to simple black and white graphics. (Paradoxically, the book, one of the best known of his works, met with criticism as repeating antisemitic stereotypes.) The artist's reputation was also enhanced by exhibitions which were organized by Galeries Auguste Decour (the art gallery first exhibited Szyk's works in 1922). Szyk's drawings were purchased by the Minister of Education and Fine Arts Anatole de Monzie and the New York businessman Harry Glemby.\n\nSzyk had many opportunities to travel for his art. In 1922, he spent seven weeks in Morocco, then a protectorate of France, where he drew the portrait of the pasha of Marrakech – as a goodwill ambassador he received the Ordre des Palmes Académiques from the French government for this work. In 1931 he was invited to the seat of the League of Nations in Geneva, where he began illustrating the statute of the League. The artist made some of the pages of the statute but did not complete that work as a result of his disappointment with the policies of the organization in the 1930s.\n\nDuring his stay in France, Szyk maintained his ties with Poland. He often visited his home country, illustrated books, and exhibited his works there. During the second half of the 1920s, he mainly illustrated the \"Statute of Kalisz\", a charter of liberties which were granted to the Jews by Bolesław the Pious, the Duke of Kalisz, in 1264. In the years 1926–1928, he created a rich graphic setting of the 45-page-long Statute, showing the contribution of the Jews to Polish society; for example their participation in Poland's pro-independence struggle, during the January Uprising of 1863, and in the Polish Legions in World War I commanded by Józef Piłsudski, to whom Szyk also dedicated his work. \"The Statute of Kalisz\" was published in book form in Munich in 1932, but it gained popularity even earlier. Postcards with reproductions of Szyk's illustrations were published in Kraków around 1927. The original art was shown at exhibitions in Warsaw, Łódź and Kalisz in 1929, and a \"Traveling Exhibition of Artur Szyk's Works\" was held in 1932–1933, displaying the Statute at exhibitions in 14 Polish towns and cities. In recognition for his work, Arthur Szyk was decorated with the Gold Cross of Merit by the Polish government.\n\nAnother great historical series Szyk created was \"Washington and his Times\", which he began in Paris in 1930. The series, which included 38 watercolours, depicted the events of the American Revolutionary War and was a tribute to the first president of the United States and the American nation in general. The series was presented at an exhibition at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. in 1934. It brought another decoration to Szyk – this time the George Washington Bicentennial Medal from the American government.\n\nSzyk's art became even more politically engaged when Adolf Hitler took power in Germany in 1933. Szyk started drawing caricatures of Germany's Führer as early as 1933; probably the first was a pencil drawing of Hitler dressed as an ancient Egyptian pharaoh. These drawings anticipated another great series of Szyk's drawings – the \"Haggadah\", which is considered his \"magnum opus\". The \"Haggadah\" is a very important and popular story in Jewish culture and religion about the Exodus or departure of the Israelites from ancient Egypt, which is read every year during the Passover Seder. Szyk illustrated the Haggadah in 48 miniature paintings in the years 1934–1936. The antisemitic politics in Germany led Szyk introduce some contemporary elements to it. For example, he painted the Jewish parable of the Four Sons, in which the \"wicked son\" was portrayed as a man wearing German clothes, with a Hitler-like moustache and a green Alpine hat. The political intent of the series was even stronger in its original version: he painted upon the red snakes the swastika, the symbol of the Third Reich.\n\nIn 1937, Arthur Szyk went to London to supervise the publication of the \"Haggadah\". However, in the three years leading to its publication, the artist had to agree to many compromises, including painting over the swastikas. It is not clear whether he did it under the pressure from his publisher or from British politicians who pursued the policy of appeasement with to Germany. The \"Haggadah\" was at last published in 1940, dedicated it to King George VI and with a translation (of the Hebrew) and commentary by British Jewish historian Cecil Roth. The work was widely acclaimed by critics; according to \"The Times\" of London Literary Supplement, it was \"worthy to be placed among the most beautiful of books that the hand of man has ever produced\". It was the most expensive new book in the world at the time, with each of the 250 limited edition copies of vellum selling for 100 guineas or USD$520.\n\nThe last major exhibition of Szyk's works before the outbreak of World War II was the presentation of his paintings at the 1939 New York World's Fair, which opened in April 1939 in New York. The Polish Pavilion prominently featured Szyk's twenty-three paintings depicting the contribution of the Poles to the history of the United States; many works specifically highlighted the historic political connections between the two countries, as if to remind the viewer that Poland remained a suitable ally in a turbulent time.. (Twenty of the images were reproduced as postcards in Kraków in 1938 and were available for sale.). In this series, Szyk depicted the contribution of the Poles to the history of the United States, and highlighted historic connections between the two countries.\n\nThe German invasion of Poland found Szyk in Britain where he supervised the publication of the \"Haggadah\" and continued to exhibit his works. The artist immediately reacted to the outbreak of World War II by producing war-themed works. One feature which distinguished Szyk from other caricaturists who were active during World War II was that he concentrated on the presentation of the enemy in his works and seldom depicted the leaders or soldiers of the Allies. This was a characteristic feature of Szyk's work till the end of the war. In January 1940, the exhibition of his 72 caricatures entitled \"War and \"Kultur\" in Poland\" opened at the Fine Art Society in London, and was well received by the critics. As the reviewer of \"The Times\" wrote:\n\nSzyk drew more and more caricatures directed at the Axis powers and their leaders, and his popularity steadily grew. In 1940, the American publisher G.P. Putnam's Sons offered to publish a collection of his drawings. Szyk agreed, and the result was the 1941 book \"The New Order\", available months before the United States joined the war. Thomas Craven declared on the dust jacket of \"The New Order\" that Szyk:\nSome years later, in 1946, art critic Carl Van Doren said of Szyk:\n\nAt the beginning of July 1940, with the support of the British government and the Polish government-in-exile, Arthur Szyk left Britain for North America, on assignment to popularize in the New World the struggle of the British and Polish nations against Nazism. His first destination on the continent was Canada, where he was welcomed enthusiastically by the media: they wrote about his engagement in the fight with Nazi Germany, and the Halifax-based \"Morning Herald\" even reported about the alleged bounty Hitler had put on Szyk. In December 1940, Szyk and his wife and daughter went to New York City, where he lived till 1945. His son, George, had enlisted in the Free French Forces commanded by General Charles de Gaulle.\n\nSoon after his arrival in the U.S., Szyk was inspired by Roosevelt's 1941 \"Four Freedoms\" State of the Union speech to illustrate the Four Freedoms, preceding Norman Rockwell's Four Freedoms by two years; these were used as poster stamps during the war, and appeared on the Four Freedoms Award which was presented to Harry Truman, George Marshall and Herbert H. Lehman. Szyk became an immensely popular artist in his new home country the war, especially after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the entry of the United States into the war. His caricatures of the leaders of the Axis powers (Hitler, Mussolini, Hirohito) and other drawings appeared practically everywhere: in newspapers, magazines (including \"Time (cover caricature of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto in December 1941)\", \"Esquire\", and \"Collier's\"), on posters, postcards and stamps, in secular, religious and military publications, on public and military buildings. He also produced advertisements for Coca-Cola and U.S. Steel, and exhibited in the galleries of M. Knodler & Co., Andre Seligmann, Inc., Messrs. Wildenstein & Co., the Philadelphia Art Alliance, the Brooklyn Museum, the Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco, and the White House. More than 25 exhibitions were staged altogether in the United States during the war years. At the end of the war, in 1945, his drawing \"Two Down and One to Go\" was used in a propaganda film calling American soldiers to the final assault on Japan. According to the \"Esquire\" magazine, the posters with Szyk's drawings enjoyed even bigger popularity with American soldiers than pin-up girls put on the walls of American military bases. In total, more than one million American soldiers saw Szyk's in reproduction at some 500 locations administered by the United Services Organization.\n\nIn recognition for his services in the fight against Nazism, Fascism, and the Japanese aggression, Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady and wife of President F. D. Roosevelt, wrote about Szyk several times in her newspaper column, \"My Day\". On January 8, 1943, she wrote:\n\nThough Szyk was a fierce opponent of Nazi Germany and the rest of the Axis Powers, he did not avoid topics or themes which presented the Allies in a less favourable light. Szyk criticized the United Kingdom for its policies in the Middle East, especially its practice of imposing limits on Jewish emigration to Palestine.) Szyk also criticized the apparent passivity of American-Jewish organizations towards the tragedy of their European fellows. He supported the work of Hillel Kook, also known as Peter Bergson, a member of the Zionist organization Irgun, who mounted a publicity campaign in American society whose aim was to draw the American public's attention to the fate of the European Jews. Szyk illustrated for example full-page advertisements (sometimes with copy by screenwriter Ben Hecht) which were published in \"The New York Times\". The artist also spoke against racial tensions in the United States and criticized the fact that the black population did not have the same rights as the whites. In one of his drawings, there are two American soldiers – one black and one white – escorting German prisoners of war. When the white one asks the black: \"And what would you do with Hitler?\", the black one answers: \"I would have made him a Negro and dropped him somewhere in the U.S.A.\"\n\nSzyk's attitude to his mother country, Poland, was very interesting and full of contradictions. Even though he regarded himself both as Jewish and Polish and showed the suffering of the Poles (not only those of Jewish descent) in the Russian-occupied Polish territories in his drawings, even though he benefited from financial support of the Polish government-in-exile (at least at the beginning of the war), Szyk sometimes presented that government in a negative light, especially at the end of World War II. In a controversial drawing dated 1944, a group of debating Polish politicians are shown as opponents of Roosevelt, Joseph Stalin, the \"Bolshevik agent\" Winston Churchill, and at the same time adherents of Father Charles Coughlin, known for his antisemitic views, as well as \"(national) democracy\" and \"(national) socialism.\" Around 1943, Szyk, a former participant in the Polish–Soviet War, also completely changed his opinions on the Soviet Union. His drawing from 1944 already depicts outright a soldier of the Moscow-supported People's Army of Poland next to a Red Army soldier, both liberating Poland.\n\nWhatever his political views, in July 1942 Szyk took the time to look after the family of the Polish diplomat and poet General Bolesław Wieniawa-Długoszowski when the General committed suicide. He invited his wife Bronisława Wieniawa-Długoszowska and daughter Zuzanna to stay with his family for six weeks in the country.\n\nEven though caricatures dominated Szyk's artistic output during the war, he was still engaged in other areas of art. In 1940, the American publisher George Macy, who saw his illustrations for the \"Haggadah\" at an exhibition in London, asked him to illustrate the \"Rubaiyat\", a collection of poems of the Iranian poet Omar Khayyám. In 1943, the artist started work on illustrations for the \"Book of Job\", published in 1946; he also illustrated collections of fairy tales by Hans Christian Andersen (\"Andersen's Fairy Tales\", 1945) and Charles Perrault (\"Mother Goose\", which was not published).\n\nIn 1945, Arthur Szyk and his family moved from New York City to New Canaan, Connecticut where he lived till the end of his life. The end of the war released him from the duty to fight Nazism through his caricatures; a large collection of drawings from the war period was published by the Heritage Press in 1946 in book form as \"Ink and Blood: A Book of Drawings\". The artist returned to book illustrations, working for example on \"The Canterbury Tales\" by Geoffrey Chaucer and, most notably, books telling Bible stories, such as \"Pathways through the Bible\" by Mortimer J. Cohen (1946), \"The Book of Job\" (1946), \"The Book of Ruth\" (1947), \"The Ten Commandments\" (1947), \"The Story of Joseph and his Brothers\" (1949). Some of the books illustrated by Szyk were also published posthumously, including \"The Arabian Nights Entertainments\" (1954) and \"The Book of Esther\" (1974). He was also commissioned by Canadian entrepreneur and stamp connoisseur, Kasimir Bileski, to create illustrations for the Visual History of Nations (or United Nations) series of stamps; though the project never came to fruition, Szyk did design stamp album frontispieces for more than a dozen countries, including the United States, Poland, the United Kingdom, and Israel.\n\nArthur Szyk was granted American citizenship on May 22, 1948, but he reportedly experienced the happiest day in his life eight days earlier: on May 14, the day of the announcement of the Israeli Declaration of Independence. Arthur Szyk commemorated that event by creating the richly decorated illumination of the Hebrew text of the declaration. Two years later, on July 4, 1950, he also exhibited the richly illuminated text of the United States Declaration of Independence. The artist continued to be politically engaged in his country, criticizing the McCarthyism policy (the ubiquitous atmosphere of suspicion and searching for sympathizers of communism in American artistic and academic circles) and signs of racism. One of his well-known drawings from 1949 shows two armed members of Ku Klux Klan approaching a tied-up African American; the caption for the drawing reads, \"Do not forgive them, oh Lord, for they do know what they do.\" Like many outspoken artists of his era, Szyk was suspected by the House Un-American Activities Committee, which accused him of being a member of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee and six other suspicious organizations. Szyk himself, however, repudiated these accusations of alleged sympathy for communism; his son George sent Judge Simon Rifkind a memorandum outlining his father's innocence.\n\nArthur Szyk died of a heart attack in New Canaan on September 13, 1951. He was eulogized by Rabbi Ben Zion Bokser, who said: \n\nThe immense popularity Szyk enjoyed in the United States and Europe in his lifetime gradually flagged after his death. From the 1960s to the end of the 1980s, the artist's works were seldom exhibited in American museums. This changed in 1991 when the non-profit organization The Arthur Szyk Society was established in Orange County, California. The founder of the Society, George Gooche, rediscovered Szyk's works and staged the exhibition \"Arthur Szyk – Illuminator\" in Los Angeles. In 1997, the seat of the Society was transferred to Burlingame, California, and a new Board of Trustees was elected, headed by rabbi, curator and antiquarian Irvin Ungar. The Society's work resulted in staging many exhibitions of Szyk's works in American cities in the 1990s and 2000s. The Society also maintains a large educational website, holds lectures, and produces publications on the artist. In April 2017, the Ungar collection of his work, consisting of 450 paintings, drawings and sketches, was purchased for $10.1 million by the University of California, Berkeley's Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life, through a donation by Taube Philanthropies, the largest single monetary gift to acquire art in UC Berkeley history.\n\nSzyk's recent solo exhibitions include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30454625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30454625", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Hong Kong", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Hong Kong\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Hong Kong began during the lifetime of the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nHong Kong’s history as crown colony of the United Kingdom and then a special administrative region of the People’s Republic of China has given it a unique history – a history that has impacted the structure and growth of the Bahá'í Faith there. Of course the cataclysm of the World Wars and other major events impacted the Bahá'í community as it did the citizenry in generally. In 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated the Bahá'í population of Hong Kong at about 1100.\n\nAs a commercial center and relatively open city even in the 1870s, Hong Kong became a location where non-Chinese Bahá'ís could settle and earn a living in trade or other commercial activities. The first Bahá'í in China was recorded as having lived in Shanghai in 1862. in 1870, this person was joined by his brother and they established a trading company.\n\nIn the period 1881–1882 a nephew of the wife of the Báb resided in Hong Kong.\n\nHong Kong was a frequent transit hub throughout the early 1900s for western Bahá'ís travelling to China and other parts of Asia. Among these travelers was Martha Root who started traveling in 1924 and on several subsequent trips,she met with editors, librarians, and the president of the university. She spoke on radio, at the Hong Kong University and had several press articles in local papers.\n\nAssociation with so many Bahá'ís from other lands gave heart to the Hong Kong Bahá'í expatriate community and demonstrated to the first Hong Kong Bahá'ís the reality of the global community that they became a part of.\n\nCharles Duncan, Knight of Bahá'u'lláh to Brunei, recorded of this period that pioneers moved there and that slowly a community was built in Hong Kong consisting of longtime residents. They were of Chinese, Indian, British and Southeast Asian backgrounds. He indicated there was a constant stream of Bahá'í visitors from abroad.\n\nPei Tswi, a Bahá'í who lived in Hong Kong for a decade from the late 1920s, and Liu Chan Song, are the only Chinese Bahá'ís known to have resided in Hong Kong just prior to the Second World War.\n\nStarting in 1953 there was a concerted effort to establish a permanent community of Bahá'ís in Hong Kong and with dedicated efforts this was accomplished by the mid1950s.\n\nThe enrolment of four new members allowed the Hong Kong Bahá'ís to form their first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in 1956. The Local Spiritual Assembly was registered with the Hong Kong government as a society on 29 May 1958, then incorporated in 1969. These were transferred to the National Spiritual Assembly when it was formed in 1974. At the beginning of 1957 there were 14 members in the Hong Kong Bahá'í community.\n\nFrom 1957 until 1974 Hong Kong was under the administration of the Regional Spiritual Assembly of North East Asia whose jurisdiction included Japan, Korea, Formosa, Macau, Hong Kong, Hainan Island and Sakhalin Island.\n\nThe Hong Kong and Macau Bahá'í communities had a close relationship fostered by their proximity and similar circumstances. They were jointly administered in this period until Macau established its own National Spiritual Assembly in 1989 – firstly by the Regional Spiritual Assembly, and later under the National Spiritual Assembly of Hong Kong.\n\nBy 1961 there were approximately 60 Bahá'ís in Hong Kong and three Local Spiritual Assemblies. Much of the growth was assisted by pioneers of Chinese background from the Malaysian Bahá'í community who could best help with contacts and support with the Chinese community living in Hong Kong.\nHong Kong established a Bahá'í Centre which officially opened in August 1968. It housed the secretariat, and had live-in facilities as well as having a room for study classes and public meetings.\n\nBy 1974 there were five local assemblies in Hong Kong and the Universal House of Justice decided it was time for the Hong Kong Bahá'ís to establish a National Spiritual Assembly. The formation of the national assembly was the culmination of efforts commenced by Bahá'ís some 104 years before and a cause for great celebration in the Bahá'í communities of Hong Kong and elsewhere.\n\nIn the years since the formation of the national assembly, the Hong Kong Bahá'í community continued to expand.\nBy 1979 they had grown to ten local assemblies and a total of twenty-six localities. By 1991 there were twenty-two local assemblies in Hong Kong.\n\n[ Updates for 2010 requested ]\n\nDespite the agreement to transfer sovereignty of Hong Kong to the People's Republic of China in 1997 and its designation as a special administrative region (SAR) (but with the retention of many unique governmental systems for at least 50 years), the position of the Bahá'í administration in Hong Kong – its administration, membership and communities – in the context of local laws has remained unchanged. The \"National\" Spiritual Assembly is now referred to as the “Spiritual Assembly” or “Main Spiritual Assembly” in Chinese and still retains jurisdiction over the Local Spiritual Assemblies in Hong Kong. It is elected from the generality of Bahá'í residents in the community of Hong Kong SAR.\n\nLike numerous communities around the world, the Hong Kong Bahá'í Community undertakes community-building activities in the Hong Kong SAR. These consist of: “meetings that strengthen the devotional character of the community; classes that nurture the tender hearts and minds of children; groups that channel the surging energies of junior youth; circles of study, open to all, that enable people of varied backgrounds to advance on equal footing and explore the application of the teachings to their individual and collective lives.\"\n\nThe Hong Kong Bahá'í Community, together with the Macau Bahá'í Community, frequently act as liaison and contact points with the Government of the People's Republic of China since there is no administrative structure for the Bahá'í Faith operating in mainland China.\n\nThe Hong Kong Bahá'í Community has also been involved with exchanges, conferences and events with government, academic, and non-governmental organisations that explore the application of the Bahá'í teachings to the advancement of society. It also leads events and activities that promote religious and societal unity and advancement (such as the annual commemoration of World Religion Day which \"call(s) attention to the harmony of the various religions’ spiritual principles and to emphasize that religion is the motivating force for world unity.\")\n\nIn 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated the Bahá'í population of Hong Kong at about 1100.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20444659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20444659", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Jamaica", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Jamaica\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Jamaica begins with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, in 1916 as Latin America being among the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to. The community of the Bahá'ís begins in 1942 with the arrival of Dr. Malcolm King. The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Jamaica, in Kingston, was elected in 1943. By 1957 the Bahá'ís of Jamaica were organized under the regional National Spiritual Assembly of the Greater Antilles, and on the eve of national independence in 1962, the Jamaica Bahá'ís elected their own National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. By 1981 hundreds of Bahá'ís and hundreds more non-Bahá'ís turned out for weekend meetings when Rúhíyyih Khánum spent six days in Jamaica. Public recognition of the religion came in the form of the Governor General of Jamaica, Sir Howard Cooke, proclaiming a National Bahá'í Day first on July 25 in 2003 and it has been an annual event since. While there is evidence of several active communities by 2008 in Jamaica, estimates of the Bahá'ís population range from the hundreds to the thousands.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The first actions on the part of Bahá'í community towards Latin America were that of a few individuals who made trips to Mexico and South America near or before this unveiling in 1919, including Mr. and Mrs. Frankland, and Roy C. Wilhelm, and Martha Root. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\nHis Christ Holiness says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God.…(travel to) the Islands of the West Indies, such as Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, the Islands of the Lesser Antilles, Bahama Islands, even the small Watling Island, have great importance…\n\nShoghi Effendi wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\nAppeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by `Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\nFollowing the May 1 cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies began to form in 1938 across the rest of Latin America.\n\nAfter a brief visit in 1939 by John and Rosa Shaw from San Francisco, the community of the Bahá'í Faith in Jamaica begins in 1942 with the arrival of Dr. Malcolm King - from Portland, Oregon, United States and of Jamaican background. King taught the religion to Marion Maxwell, the first Jamaican Bahá'í and William Mitchell (previously accountant for the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA) founded by Marcus Garvey). The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Jamaica, in Kingston, was elected in 1943. Mitchell was the Jamaican delegate to the Bahá'í All-America Convention called for by Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, to be held in the United States May 17–24, 1944 on the centenary of the declaration of the Báb. Mitchell in turn taught the religion to Julius Edwards, associated with Garvey and later pioneered to the area now called Ghana in 1953 and later in Liberia. There was also Eustace Whyte among the early Bahá'ís of Jamaica who served as president of UNIA's Harmony Division in Kingston as well as elected to the Local Spiritual Assembly of Kingston. Garvey scholar Robert Hill gave a eulogy at one of Whyte's funeral services.\n\nFrom the early period of development the Bahá'í community in Jamaica grew in organization and in relationship with the wider community while growing internally as well. Before national independence, the Jamaicans were part of a regional National Spiritual Assembly of the Greater Antilles from 1957 through 1961 and on the eve of national independence in 1962, the Jamaica Bahá'ís elected their own National Spiritual Assembly in 1961 with Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga representing the Bahá'í International Community. In 1963 there were Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in 6 cities: Annatto Bay, Kingston, May Pen, Port Antonio, Spanish Town, and Yallahs and smaller groups of Bahá'ís in Bartons (St. Catherine), Crooked River, Montego Bay, and Porus.\n\nIn 1963 the Bahá'ís of the world looked to the election of the Universal House of Justice as the new head of the religion. The electors were the members of the national assemblies then in existence. The members of the Jamaican National Assembly who participated in the election were Miss Doris Maud Buchanan, Mr. Randolph Fitz-Henley, Miss Alice Maude Gallier, Mr. Wm. Arthur Wellesley Mitchell, Mr. Alfred Senior, Miss Emily Taylor, Miss Ruby Taylor, Mr. Clarence Ullrich, Mrs. Margarite Ullrich. Later the Universal House of Justice called for eight Oceanic and Continental Conferences and one was held in Kingston for the Caribbean region in May 1971. In 1981, just before the 40th anniversary of the founding of the Bahá'í community in Jamaica, Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khánum traveled throughout the Caribbean region and spent six days in Jamaica. She was received by the Governor General and Prime Minister while over two hundred Bahá'ís attended a weekend conference and more non-Bahá'ís attended a public meeting. A twenty-minute television interview as well as general coverage by radio and television reporters highlighted her visit.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. In 1985 the Bahá'í International Community canvassed the National Assemblies with a questionnaire - 77 of the 143 then existing assemblies responded. Jamaican responses highlighted a sense that women in Jamaica were taking on leadership positions on local assemblies. Former assistant to the dean of the school of engineering and applied science at Washington University in St. Louis, Naomi McCord, and her husband served as caretakers of the National Bahá'í Center in Kingston for a number of years. McCord willed more than 200 volumes from her personal library to the center.\n\nIn a first step in relation to the general Jamaican community, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Jamaica was a founding member of the Jamaican Interfaith Council in 1992.\n\nThe Bahá'ís have participated in a number of activities of wider and local relevance to Jamaicans. In 2000 Bahá'ís joined in observing the International Day of Peace with prayers called for by the Millennium World Peace Summit of religious leaders which met at the United Nations during August 28–31, and in 2002 Bahá'ís participated in a national dialogue on transcending tribalistic boundaries present in politics. Governor General of Jamaica, Sir Howard Cooke, proclaimed a National Bahá'í Day first on July 25 in 2003 and it has been an annual event since. Among the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the first Jamaican local spiritual assembly after two weeks of events was a blood drive organized by the Bahá'ís of Kingston. The festivities were also attended by retired Continental Counselor Ruth Pringle just two weeks before her death. In 2006 the Bahá'ís of Port Antonio held a 4-day exhibition at the public library on the history of the Faith in Jamaica with the Bahá'í Day observance. The Bahá'í Centre in Kingston has hosted Sir Howard Cooke's Thursday Group which has continued to operate since Sir Cooke's retirement in 2006. In 2008 Bahá'í Dorothy Whyte was named the new executive director at the Women's Resource and Outreach Centre in Kingston. In 2005 the international Bahá'í choir, Voices of Bahá, performed in Jamaica as part of their first tour in the Caribbean and performed at Ward Theatre and the University's Chapel with proceeds earmarked to two Jamaican charities serving families of policemen slain in the line of duty and the Denham Town Golden Age Home.\n\nIn 2000 local sources reported 4,000 Bahá'ís in Jamaica, notably in cities like Montego Bay, Port Antonio, Ocho Rios and May Pen though recent international sources reported anywhere from 279 Bahá'ís to more than 8,000. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 5137 Bahá'ís in 2005. In 2006 there were 21 local spiritual assemblies. In 2008, Bahá'í community events are listed especially in Montego Bay, Morant Bay, Port Morant, and the Kingston/St. Andrew Parish area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919528", "title": "Bishopric of Turku", "text": "Bishopric of Turku\n\nThe Bishop of Turku (episcopus Aboensis) was the medieval Christian religious leader of Finland.\n\nInfluenced by papal bulls Swedish magnates in the 12th century set up crusade expeditions to convert the heathens in the eastern Baltic. This resulted in the establishment of the Catholic Church, the Christian religion and the Swedish conquest of Finland. Turku, or \"Aboa\", \"Åbo\", became the principal city in Finland and site of a bishopric.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation in the 16th century made the Catholic Church give way to the Lutheran state church established by King Gustav I of Sweden, whose principal reformer in Finland was Mikael Agricola and from 1554 also the bishop. See Lutheran Diocese of Turku.\n\nWith the creation of the Finnish state at the Diet of Porvoo in 1809, the Bishop of Turku was elevated to the position of the archbishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, as the Archbishop of Turku.\n\n \n \n"}
{"id": "5809915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809915", "title": "Buddhism in Italy", "text": "Buddhism in Italy\n\nBuddhism in Italy is the third most spread religion, next to Christianity and Islam. According to Caritas Italiana, in the country there are 160,000 Buddhists, that is to say the 0.3% of the total population.\n\nThe Buddhist presence in Italy begins to be known in the 1960s, with the first attempts to ground some Buddhist centers. Between the oldest we can count the one of Engaku Taino and the Fudenji of Taiten Guareschi, disciple of Taisen Deshimaru. In 1960 is founded the Buddhist Italian Association (Associazione Buddhista Italiana) and in 1967 begins the publishing of the review Buddhismo Scientifico.\n\nFrom the years 1984-1989, the Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition of Thubten Yeshe and Thubten Zopa Rinpoche was based at the Istituto Lama Tzong Khapa in the Tuscan village of Pomaia.\n\nThe Italian Buddhist Union, member of the European Buddhist Union, was founded in Milan in 1985, received recognition by the President of the Italian Republic in 1991 and signed an agreement with the Italian government in 2007, in accordance with article 8 of the Italian Constitution (which regulates the relations with religious minorities), and the agreement became law in 2012.\n\nThe UBI is acknowledged as an association with juridical figure and coordinates the 44 principal centers in Italy in the tradition Theravada, Mahayana, Vajrayana which hold the practice and the sharing of the traditional teaching. \nBetween the most important Buddhist centers of Italy we can note the Soto Zen center \"L'Arco\", in Rome, the already citated Scaramuccia of Engaku Taino, in Orvieto; even in Rome, the lay association laica A.Me.Co for the practice of Theravada buddhism, founded and directed by the lay dharma teacher Corrado Pensa, and near to the theravada monastery of the Forest's Sangha; In Milan, the biggest zen center is the zen monastery Ensoji il Cerchio, founded and guided by the zen master Testugen Serra; in Pomaia, the Tibetan Buddhism finds one of the biggest center in Europe, the Lama Tzong Khapa Institute. The Vajrayana Buddhism is represented, among others, by the centers of the Diamond Way Buddhism of the Kagyu school, spread in almost all the Italian regions.\n\nEven the Japanese Buddhist school founded by Nichiren Daishonin sees in the UBI his representance: the temple of the Nichiren Shu Renkoji, in Cereseto, near Novara, guided by the master Shoryo Tarabini, and the association Nipponzan Myohonji, which provided to the grounding of the biggest stupa in Italy, the Peace Pagoda in Comiso (Sicily). In 2014 also Honmon Butsuryū-shū, or HBS, with its Kofuji temple in Florence, has become part of UBI.\n\nIn June 2015, the SGI-Italy (Soka Gakkai Italian Buddhist Institute) was recognized by the Italian government with a special accord under Italian Constitution Article 8, acknowledging it as an official religion of Italy and eligible to receive direct taxpayer funding for its religious and social activities. It also recognizes the Soka Gakkai as a \"Concordat\" (It: \"Intesa\") that grants the religions status in \"a special 'club' of denominations consulted by the government in certain occasions, allowed to appoint chaplains in the army - a concordat is not needed for appointing chaplains in hospitals and jails - and, perhaps more importantly, to be partially financed by taxpayers' money.\" Eleven other religious denominations share this status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3036499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036499", "title": "Buddhism in the Philippines", "text": "Buddhism in the Philippines\n\nBuddhism is a minor religion in the Philippines.\nLoanwords with Buddhist context appear in languages of the Philippines. Archaeological finds include Buddhist artifacts. The style are of Vajrayana influence. The Buddhist population of the Philippines is 46,558 according to the 2010 Census..\nNo written record exists about the early Buddhism in the Philippines. The recent archaeological discoveries and the few scant references in the other nations’s historical records can tell, however, about the existence of Buddhism from the 9th century onward in the islands. These records mention the independent states that comprise the Philippines and which show that they were not united as one country in the early days.\n\nThe Philippines’s early states must have become the tributary states of the powerful Buddhist Srivijaya empire that controlled the trade and its sea routes from the 6th century to the 13th century in Southeast Asia. The states’s trade contacts with the empire long before or in the 9th century must have served as the conduit for introducing Vajrayana Buddhism to the islands.\n\nBoth Srivijaya empire in Sumatra and Majapahit empire in Java were unknown in history until 1918 when the Ecole Francaise d’Extreme Orient’s George Coedes postulated their existence because they had been mentioned in the records of the Chinese Tang and Sung imperial dynasties. Ji Ying, a Chinese monk and scholar, stayed in Sumatra from 687 to 689 on his way to India. He wrote on the Srivijaya’s splendour, \"Buddhism was flourishing throughout the islands of Southeast Asia. Many of the kings and the chieftains in the islands in the southern seas admire and believe in Buddhism, and their hearts are set on accumulating good action.\"\n\nBoth empires replaced their early Theravada Buddhist religion with Vajrayana Buddhism in the 7th century.\n\nThe Srivijaya empire flourished as a Buddhist cultural centre over 600 years from 650 to 1377 in Palembang, Sumatra. Built as a mandala on a hill from 770 to 825 in central Java, the Borobodur stands today as the living testament of the Srivijaya empire’s grandeur. Three generations of the Sailendra kings built the temple that displays a three-dimensional view of the Vajrayana Buddhist cosmology. Later on, the Javanese Majapahit empire took control over the Srivijaya and became the leading Buddhist cultural centre from 1292 to 1478 in Southeast Asia.\n\nRitual practice rather than meditation makes Vajrayana Buddhism distinct from the other forms of Buddhism. Vajrayana Buddhism was also known as Tantric Buddhism and Mantrayana, the esoteric teaching, which was conveyed only by a master to a disciple through initiation or empowerment. Vajrayana means Adamantine Vehicle or Diamond Vehicle that shows the way to awaken the Enlightenment. Mantrayana comes from the word mantra, which means words (incantation, spell, oath) of special vibrations. Mantrayana makes use of upaya or skillful means, such as the mantra and the mandala. They serve as aids to mind cultivation.\n\nThe Mantrayana practitioner visualizes the mind as a mandala that expresses the mind’s innate nature as the ahistorical Buddha or Enlightenment, which means the Absolute in its emptiness and which has no beginning and no end. he mind is its sacred dwelling place. The Mantrayana practitioner sees her/himself as divine because, according to the Mahayana Buddhist perspective, their mind has been endowed with the ahistorical Buddha or Enlightenment nature. It is also known as the Dharma nature, the eternal law that governs the universe.\n\nThe Philippines’s archaeological finds include a few of Buddhist artifacts, most of them dated to the 9th century. The artifacts reflect the iconography of the Srivijaya empire’s Vajrayana Buddhism and its influences on the Philippines’s early states. The artifacts’s distinct features point to their production in the islands and they hint at the artisans’s or goldsmiths’s knowledge of the Buddhist culture and the Buddhist literature because the artisans have made these unique works of Buddhist art. The artifacts imply also the presence of the Buddhist believers in the places where these artifacts turned up. These places extended from the Agusan-Surigao area in Mindanao island to Cebu, Palawan, and Luzon islands. Hence, Vajrayana Buddhism must have spread far and wide throughout the archipelago. And Vajrayana Buddhism must have become the religion of the majority of the inhabitants in the islands.\n\nIn 1225, China's Zhao Rugua, a superintendent of maritime trade in Fukien province wrote the book entitled \"Zhu Fan Zhi\" () in which he described trade with a country called Ma-i in the island of Mindoro in Luzon,(pronounced \"Ma-yi\") which was a prehispanic Philippine state. In it he said:\n\nThe gold statue of the deity Tara is the most significant Buddhist artifact. In the Vajrayana Buddhist tradition, Tara symbolizes the Absolute in its emptiness as the wisdom heart’s essence that finds its expression through love and through compassion. The Vajrayana tradition also tells about the outpouring of the human heart’s compassion that manifests Tara and about the fascinating story of the Bodhisattva of Compassion shedding a tear out of pity for the suffering of all sentient beings when he hears their cries. The tear created a lake where a lotus flower emerges. It bears Tara who relieves their sorrow and their pain.\n\nThe Golden Tara was discovered in 1918 in Esperanza, Agusan and it has been kept in the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois since the 1920s. Henry Otley Beyer, the Philippines’s pioneer anthropologist-archaeologist, and some experts have agreed on its identity and have dated it to belong within 900-950 CE, which covers the Sailendra period of the Srivijaya empire. They can not place, however, the Golden Tara’s provenance because it has distinct features.\n\nIn the archipelago that was to become the Philippines, the statues of the Hindu gods were hidden to prevent their destruction by a religion which destroyed all cult images. One statue, a \"Golden Tara\", a 4-pound gold statue of a Hindu-Malayan goddess, was found in Mindanao in 1917. The statue, denoted the \"Agusan Image\", is now in the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago. The image is that of a Hindu-Malayan female deity, seated cross-legged. It is made of \"twenty-one carat gold and weighs nearly four pounds.\" It has a richly ornamented headdress and many ornaments in the arms and other parts of the body. Scholars date it to the late 13th or early 14th century. It was made by local artists, perhaps copying from an imported Javanese model. The gold that was used was from this area, since Javanese miners were known to have been engaged in gold mining in Butuan at this time.\n\nThe existence of these gold mines, this artefact and the presence of \"foreigners\" proves the existence of some foreign trade, gold as element in the barter economy, and of cultural and social contact between the natives and \"foreigners.\" As previously stated, this statue is not in The Philippines. Louise Adriana Wood (whose husband, Leonard Wood, was military-governor of the Moro Province in 1903-1906 and governor general in 1921-1927) raised funds for its purchase by the Chicago Museum of Natural History. It is now on display in that museum's Gold Room.\n\nAccording to Prof. Beyer, considered the \"Father of Philippine Anthropology and Archaeology\", a woman in 1917 found it on the left bank of the Wawa River near Esperanza, Agusan, projecting from the silt in a ravine after a storm and flood. From her hands it passed into those of Bias Baklagon, a local government official. Shortly after, ownership passed to the Agusan Coconut Company, to whom Baklagon owed a considerable debt. Mrs. Wood bought it from the coconut company.\n\nA golden statuette of the Hindu-Buddhist goddess Kinnara found in an archeological dig in Esperanza, Agusan del Sur.\nThe Philippines's archaeological finds include many ancient gold artifacts. Most of them have been dated to belong to the 9th century iconography of the Srivijaya empire. The artifacts’s distinct features point to their production in the islands. It is probable that they were made locally because archaeologist Peter Bellwood discovered the existence of an ancient goldsmith’s shop that made the 20-centuries-old lingling-o, or omega-shaped gold ornaments in Batanes. Archaeological finds include Buddhist artifacts. The style are of Vajrayana influence.\n\nThe other finds are the garuda, the mythical bird that has been common to Buddhism and Hinduism, and several Padmapani images. Padmapani has been also known as Avalokitesvara, the enlightened being or Bodhisattva of Compassion.\n\nSurviving Buddhist images and sculptures are primarily found in and at Tabon Cave.\nRecent research conducted by Philip Maise has included the discovery of giant sculptures, has also discovered what he believes to be cave paintings within the burial chambers in the caves depicting the Journey to the West.\n\nEstimates of the Buddhist population of the Philippines is at 2%. Several schools of Buddhism are present in the Philippines. There are Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhist temples as well as Theravada followers, lay organizations, meditation centers and groups, such as Pure Land Buddhism, Soka Gakkai International which is an international Nichiren Buddhist organization founded in Japan. The Maha Bodhi Society's Zen circle was founded in October 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "326432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326432", "title": "College of Pontiffs", "text": "College of Pontiffs\n\nThe College of Pontiffs (Latin: \"Collegium Pontificum\"; see \"collegium\") was a body of the ancient Roman state whose members were the highest-ranking priests of the state religion. The college consisted of the Pontifex Maximus and the other \"pontifices\", the \"Rex Sacrorum\", the fifteen flamens, and the Vestals. The College of Pontiffs was one of the four major priestly colleges; originally their responsibility was limited to supervising both public and private sacrifices, but as time passed their responsibilities increased. The other colleges were the augurs (who read omens), the \"quindecimviri sacris faciundis \" (\"fifteen men who carry out the rites\"), and the Epulones (who set up feasts at festivals).\n\nThe title \"pontifex\" comes from the Latin for \"bridge builder\", a possible allusion to a very early role in placating the gods and spirits associated with the Tiber River, for instance. Also, Varro cites this position as meaning \"able to do\".\n\nThe \"pontifex maximus\" was the most important member of the college. Until 104 BC, the \"pontifex maximus\" held the sole power in appointing members to the other priesthoods in the college.\n\nThe flamens were priests in charge of fifteen official cults of Roman religion, each assigned to a particular god. The three major flamens \"(flamines maiores)\" were the Flamen Dialis, the high priest of Jupiter; the Flamen Martialis, who cultivated Mars; and the Flamen Quirinalis, devoted to Quirinus. The deities cultivated by the twelve \"flamines minores\" were Carmenta, Ceres, Falacer, Flora, Furrina, Palatua, Pomona, Portunus, Volcanus (Vulcan), Volturnus, and two whose names are lost.\n\nThe Vestal Virgins were the only female members of the college. They were in charge of guarding Rome's sacred hearth, keeping the flame burning inside the Temple of Vesta. Around age 6 to 10, girls were chosen for this position and were required to perform the rites and obligations, including remaining chaste, for 30 years.\n\nMembership in the various colleges of priests, including the College of Pontiffs, was usually an honor offered to members of politically powerful or wealthy families. Membership was for life, except for the Vestal Virgins whose term was 30 years. In the early Republic, only patricians could become priests. However, the \"Lex Ogulnia\" in 300 BC granted the right to become \"pontifices\" and \"augures\" to plebeians. Nevertheless, even in the late Republic it was still believed that the auspices ultimately resided with patrician magistrates, and certain ancient priesthoods: the \"rex sacrorum\", the \"Dialis\", \"Martialis\" and \" Quirinalis flamines\", and the college of the \"Salii\" were never opened to the plebeians.\n\nThe number of members in the college of pontiffs grew over time. Originally consisting of three members, the number was increased to nine by the third century BC; Sulla increased the number to fifteen; Augustus increased the number even further, perhaps to as many as 25.\n\nUntil the 3rd century BC, the college elected the \"pontifex maximus\" from their own number. The right of the college to elect their \"own pontifex maximus\" was returned, but the circumstances surrounding this are unclear. This changed again after Sulla, when in response to his reforms, the election of the \"pontifex maximus\" was once again placed in the hands of an assembly of seventeen of the twenty-five tribes. However, the college still controlled which candidates the assembly voted on. During the Empire, the office was publicly elected from the candidates of existing pontiffs, until the Emperors began to automatically assume the title, following Julius Caesar’s example. The \"pontifex maximus\" was a powerful political position to hold and the candidates for office were often very active political members of the college. Many, such as Julius Caesar, went on to hold consulships during their time as \"pontifex maximus\".\n\nHowever, after 44 BC the Pontiffs, as with the other official priests of Rome, lost their political influence. Martha Hoffman Lewis could only find four instances where the pontiff's advice was asked: before Augustus' marriage to Livia; in 37 BC when they ordered the removal of the body of one of the proscribed from the Campus; they made expiatory sacrifices on the day the emperor Claudius married Agrippina; and their advice was sought concerning reforms of the discipline of the haruspices.\n\nDuring the Kingdom of Roman history, the pontiffs were primarily concilia (advisers) of the kings, but after the expulsion of the last Roman King in 510 BC, the College of Pontiffs became religious advisers to the Roman Senate. As the most important of the four priestly colleges, the college of pontiffs’ duties involved advising the senate on issues pertaining to the gods, the supervision of the calendar and thus the supervision of ceremonies with their specific rituals, and the appeasement of the gods upon the appearance of prodigies.\n\nOne of their most important duties was their guardianship of the \"libri pontificales\" (pontifical books). Among these were the \"acta\", \"indigitamenta\" (lists of invocations or names of deities), \"ritualia\", \"commentarii\", \"fasti\", and \"annales\" (yearly records of magistrates and important events). These items were under the sole possession of the college of pontiffs and only they were allowed to consult these items when necessary.\n\nThe \"Lex Acilia\" bestowed power on the college to manage the calendar. Thus, they determined the days which religious and political meetings could be held, when sacrifices could be offered, votes cast, and senatorial decisions brought forth.\n\nThe College of Pontiffs came to occupy the Regia (the old palace of the kings) during the early Republican Period. They came to replace the religious authority that was once held by the king. A position, the Rex Sacrorum, was even created to replace the king for purposes of religious ceremonies.\n\nWhen Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire, Pope Leo I began using the title Pontifex Maximus around 440 to emphasize the authority of the Pope. The term \"chief priests\" in the New Testament (e.g. Mark 15:11) is translated as \"Pontifices\" in the Latin Vulgate and \"high priest\" as \"Pontifex\" in Hebrews 2:17.\n\nThe pontiffs were assisted by pontifical clerks or scribes \"(scribae)\", a position known in the earlier Republican period as a \"scriba pontificius\" but by the Augustan period as a \"pontifex minor\". A \"pontifex minor\" assisted at the rite \"(res divina)\" for Juno performed each Kalends, the first day of the month. He took up a position in the Curia Calabra, a sacred precinct \"(templum)\" on the Capitoline Hill, to observe the new moon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5360729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5360729", "title": "Commissariat of the Holy Land", "text": "Commissariat of the Holy Land\n\nCommissariat of the Holy Land is the term in the Order of Friars Minor the territory or district assigned to a commissary, whose duty it was to collect alms for the maintenance of the Catholic Holy Places in Palestine/Israel committed to the care of the Friars Minor.\nThe term also designates, in a more restricted sense, the Franciscan convent where the aforesaid commissary resides.\nThe commissary, always a member of the order, receives his appointment by letters patent from the minister general, to whom he is bound to transmit every year a detailed account of the alms received.\nThese alms may not, under any circumstances, without express permission of the Holy See, be applied to other purposes, however pious and meritorious, under grave ecclesiastical penalties. The alms taken up by the bishops at the annual collections for the Holy Land are conveyed to the custos in Jerusalem through the commissary in whose district the dioceses of the bishops are situated.\nThere were in the early 20th century forty commissariats throughout the Christian world, the most ancient being that of Naples, founded in 1333, when Robert of Anjou redeemed the Holy Places from the Sultan of Egypt. In English-speaking countries there were seven — three in the United States, one in Canada, one in Great Britain, one in Ireland, and one in Australia. The Commissariat of the United States was founded in 1882, the commissary residing in the new convent of Mount St. Sepulchre, Washington, D. C. In 1902, commissariats were erected in California and at St. Louis.\n\n"}
{"id": "910543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910543", "title": "Curandero", "text": "Curandero\n\nA curandero (, healer; f. \"curandera\") or curandeiro (, f. \"curandeira\") is a traditional native healer, shaman or witch doctor found in Latin America, the United States and Southern Europe. The curandero's life is dedicated to the administration of remedies for mental, emotional, physical and spiritual illnesses. The role of a curandero can also incorporate the roles of psychiatrist along with that of doctor and healer. Some curanderos, such as Don Pedrito, the Healer of Los Olmos, make use of simple herbs, waters, and even mud to effect their cures. Others add Catholic elements, such as holy water and pictures of saints. The use of Roman Catholic prayers and other borrowings and lendings are often found alongside native religious elements. Many curanderos emphasize their native spirituality in healing while being practicing Roman Catholics.\n\nCuranderos are often respected members of the community. Believers consider their powers to be supernatural and think that that many illnesses are caused by lost malevolent spirits, a lesson from God, or a curse.\n\nThe term \"curanderos\" can be traced back to the Spanish colonization of Latin America. Curanderos in this part of the world are the result of the mixture of traditional indigenous medicinal practices and Catholic rituals. There was also an influence from African rituals brought to Latin America by slaves. The term stems from the Spanish word for \"to heal\", \"curar\". Curanderos go beyond Western medicine, linking illness with evil spirits. This extends a curandero's duties to cover not only physical ailments but also psychological and interpersonal issues. Traditional communities see all of these issues as a loss of spirit. They believe that the curanderos can enter different dimensions where they are able to find the solutions to a person's illness or problem. Furthermore, they believe that God or the Higher Creator gives curanderos difficult and painful experiences so that they are better able to assist their patients. In Colonial Latin America, female folk healers, or curanderas, were often conflated with \"brujas\" (witches), which refers to those who cast spells; although curanderas were persecuted during such times, it is likely because they were females in positions of authority, not because of their healing methods. Today many women and men continue the curandero tradition in Mexico and the southwestern United States. \n\nHistorically, in the United States, curanderos were only found in concentrated Amerindian populations. In the mid- to late 1970s the rise in ethnic minority and immigrant populations grew in tandem with the public presence of curanderos in areas outside of the historical geographic regions of the United States which had large Indigenous populations. Since the 1990s, it has become more commonplace to see curanderos in northern-tier cities in the United States.\n\nThere are many different types of curanderos. \"Yerberos\" are primarily herbalists. \"Hueseros\" are bone and muscle therapists who emphasize physical ailments. \"Parteras\" are midwives. \"Oracionistas\" work primarily through the power of prayer. Other types include \"sobadors,\" who are masseurs, and \"brujas\", who are witches.\n\nAmong these broader terms there are several subspecialties. For instance, \"yerberos\" who work primarily with tobacco to heal patients are known as \"tabaqueros\". Healers who work primarily with ayahuasca are known as \"ayahuasqueros\". Healers who work with peyote are known as \"peyoteros\".\n\nAlthough many curanderos do have a specialty and may identify with it, that does not mean that these healing modalities are necessarily strict and do not overlap. As an example, an oracionista may also be a yerbera, and so on.\n\nThe Moche people of ancient Peru often depicted curanderos in their art.\n\nIn the Andes, one of the instruments of the \"curandero\" is the \"chonta\", a lance carved from the chonta palm, \"Bactris gasipaes\", thought to be imbued with magical powers. The palm grows only in the Amazon basin and is the object of a brisk commerce. The Jivaro people of the Amazon Rainforest use the hardwood of the chonta to carve their spears. The shaman is also known as \"chonteador\", and his most important wand is the \"chonta defensa\"; if he dies without disciples, the \"chonta\" is thrown, wrapped in rubands and weighted with stones, to the bottom of a lake with the belief that its power will reemerge when a new shaman will take office. The shamans also use wands of \"huatulco\" wood, \"Loxopterygium huasango\".\n\nCuranderos, probably because of the mystery and intrigue that surrounds them, are frequently included in fictional works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19395812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395812", "title": "Disputationes", "text": "Disputationes\n\nDisputationes (full title: Disputationes de Controversiis Christianae Fidei adversus hujus temporis Haereticos, also referred to as De Controversiis) is a work on dogmatics by Robert Bellarmine. It has been described as \"the definitive defence of papal power\". After its publication, Bellarmine was regarded as Rome's foremost apologist on doctrine and papal power.\n\nIt was written while Bellarmine was lecturing at the Roman College, and was first published at Ingolstadt in three volumes (1581, 1582, 1593) or four. This work was the earliest attempt to systematize the various controversies of the time, and made an immense impression throughout Europe, the strength of its arguments against Protestantism so acutely felt in Germany and England that special chairs were founded in order to provide replies to it. Thomas Hobbes, Theodore Beza and John Rainolds were among those who wrote counter-arguments against the work.\n\nThe first volume treats of the Word of God, of Christ, and of the pope; the second of the authority of ecumenical councils, and of the Church, whether militant, suffering, or triumphant; the third of the sacraments; and the fourth of Divine grace, free will, justification, and good works.\n\nAs much as Protestants disliked Bellarmine's theories, he was in fact moderate in his defence of papal power. In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, or very nearly had, the first volume placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying temporal hegemony to the papacy. Bellarmine's reasoning was that though the pope is the vicar of Christ, since Christ did not \"exercise\" his temporal power, nor may the pope.\n\nThe most important part of the work is contained in the five books regarding the pope. In these, after a speculative introduction on forms of government in general, holding monarchy to be relatively the best, Bellarmine says that a monarchical government and the related temporal power are necessary for the Church, to preserve unity and order in it.\n\nSuch power Bellarmine considers to have been established by the commission of Christ to Saint Peter. He then proceeds to demonstrate that this power has been transmitted to the successors of Peter, admitting that a heretical pope may be freely judged and deposed by the Church since by the very fact of his heresy he would cease to be pope, or even a member of the Church.\n\nThe third section discusses the Antichrist. Bellarmine gives in full the theory set forth by the Church Fathers, of a personal Antichrist to come just before the end of the world and to be accepted by the Jews and enthroned in the Temple in Jerusalem—thus endeavoring to dispose of the Protestant exposition which saw in the pope the Antichrist.\n\nThe fourth section sets forth the pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the pope may err in questions of fact which may be known by ordinary human knowledge, and also when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian. Bellarmine took in particular the example of Pope Honorius I, who had been anathemized by the Third Council of Constantinople as holding to monothelitism. He claimed that although monothelitism had been rightly condemned, Honorius was however orthodox as he had not really held these views, and that papal authority did not extend itself to the factual interpretation of what was to be found in Honorius or not.\n\nThough several books of this work have been translated into English in the past, only recently is it seeing its first complete translation project in full, in an English translation made by Ryan Grant. Several parts of the work have been translated, and the whole project will be resumed to after the translation project of Theologia Moralis by Saint Alphonsus Liguori is completed.\n"}
{"id": "1610483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610483", "title": "Divali Nagar", "text": "Divali Nagar\n\nDivali Nagar (\"City of Lights\") is an annual exposition of Hindu culture (broadly) and Indo-Trinidadian culture (specifically), it is associated with the celebration of Diwali in Trinidad and Tobago. The exposition is staged at the \"Divali Nagar Site\", located in the borough of Chaguanas. This event was started in the Mid Centre Mall car park in late 1986. It was given a permanent site on the John Peters Road Extension off the Uriah Butler Highway a couple of years after.\n\nAlthough organised as a religious and cultural presentation, Divali Nagar has been criticised by some for the level of commercialization associated with the endeavour. Commercial activity, however partly funds the Nagar which really consumes a lot of resources.Emphasis has to be placed on the several cultural and religious parts of the programme every year and the enormous positive impact it has had in Trinidad and the Caribbean as well as the diaspora living abroad.Diwali Nagar is the most significant Indian cultural event of the T&T and possibly in the wider Caribbean and North America. It has set a trend in that now Miami and other places have Diwali Nagars of their own. \nThe festivities usually start one week prior to the annual Divali day holiday and finishes the night before Divali. The Nagar culminates with extensive fireworks show on the final night.\nDiwali Nagar was born out of a concept enunciated by Hans Hanoomansingh, then President of the National Council of Indian Culture and was organized by a team of dedicated individuals, led by Rampersad Parasram,first chairman of Diwali Nagar.Mr Deokinanan Sharma, current president of NCIC, was chairman for many years\nAt the commencement of Divali Nagar 2011,that marked its twenty-first anniversary, pioneers of Diwali nagar were honoured.\n\nThe Divali Nagar site is utilised during the year for educational seminars, Indian Arrival Day festivities, charitable events, religious festivities and wedding receptions. The site is also used for trade exhibitors from India selling religious and cultural merchandise.\n"}
{"id": "47030961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47030961", "title": "Domkustos", "text": "Domkustos\n\nThe Domkustos of a cathedral in German-speaking countries is responsible for its physical maintenance, furniture, decoration and security, including the safekeeping of the cathedral treasure, as well as arranging for cleaning, preparation for the services and ringing the bells. His or her subordinate is the Subkustos. The word \"kustos\" is derived from the Latin word \"custodia\" which has the sense of custody, guard, protection, preservation, oversight, care, welfare.\n\nBecause of the duty to guard the cathedral treasure, in several cathedral churches, such as Magdeburg, the term \"Thesaurar\" (\"treasurer\") was used instead of \"Domkustos\". Elsewhere the title \"Thesaurar\" usually referred to the person responsible to the dean for handling income.\n\nThe office of \"Domkustos\" may either be a senior, independent post within the cathedral chapter as, for example, until 1806 in Salzburg, one of the offices under the dean or provost (\"Domdekan\"), as in Mainz, or carried out in combination with other duties by one person.\n\nFrequently the \"Domkustos\" is the head of the cathedral construction department and its workshop (\"Dombauhütte\"). Formerly its responsibility usually extended to other buildings in the \"Domimmunität\".\n"}
{"id": "9006285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9006285", "title": "Ellinais", "text": "Ellinais\n\nEllinais (), also known as The Holy Association of Greek Ancient Religion Believers (Ελλήνων Αρχαιοθρήσκων Ιερόν Σωματείον), is an Athens-based religious organization intended to promote the spread of Hellenismos, the modern worship of the ancient Greek gods. Ellinais was founded in 2005 and has over 30 official members; including academics, lawyers and other professionals. The group has received state recognition of the religion. It is demanding that its offices be registered as places of worship, which could allow the group to perform weddings and other rites. The group believes in world peace, ecological awareness, and the right to education. The group has three high priests, one of whom is Kostas Stathopoulos.\n\nOn 22 January 2007 Ellinais held the first known ceremony of its kind at the 1,800-year-old Temple of Olympian Zeus since the ancient Greek religion was outlawed by the Christian Roman empire in the late 4th century. In defiance of a government ban, the 90-minute event included hymns, dancers and torchbearers. Worshipers, dressed in ancient costume, recited ancient hymns calling on Zeus, \"King of the Gods and the mover of things\", to bring peace to the world. The priests celebrated the nuptials of Zeus with Hera, the goddess of love and marriage, below the imposing Corinthian-style columns in the city centre.\n\nA herald holding a metal staff, topped with two snake heads, proclaimed the beginning of the ceremony before priests in blue and red chitons, or robes, released two white doves, symbols of peace. A priest then poured libations of wine and incense burned on a tiny copper tripod while a choir of men and women chanted ancient hymns under the watchful eye of \"guards\", dressed as ancient Greek hoplites, or soldiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885293", "title": "Farr-e Kiyani (Faravahar)", "text": "Farr-e Kiyani (Faravahar)\n\nThe Faravahar (), also known as Farr-e Kiyani (), is one of the best-known symbols of Iran. It symbolizes Zoroastrianism, the first religion of Iran before Arab invasion of Iran Persia, and Iranian nationalism.\n\nThe Faravahar is the most worn pendant among Iranians and has become a secular national symbol, rather than a religious symbol. It symbolizes nice thoughts ( pendār-e nik), nice words ( goftār-e nik) and nice deeds ( kerdār-e nik), which are the basic tenets and principles of Zoroastrianism.\n\nThe New Persian word is read as \"forouhar\" or \"faravahar\" (it was pronounced as \"furōhar\" in Classical Persian). The Middle Persian forms were \"frawahr\" (Book Pahlavi: plwʾhl, Manichaean: prwhr), \"frōhar\" (recorded in Pazend as ; it is a later form of the previous form), and \"fraward\" (Book Pahlavi: plwlt', Manichaean: frwrd), which was directly from Old Persian \"*fravarti-\". The Avestan language form was \"fravaṣ̌i\" ().\n\nEven after the Arab conquest of Iran, Zoroastrianism continued to be part of Iranian culture. Throughout the year, festivities are celebrated such as the Iranian New Year or Nowruz, Mehregan, and Chaharshanbe Suri. These are remnants of Zoroastrian traditions. From the start of the 20th century, the Farvahar icon found itself in public places and became a known icon amongst all Iranians.\n\nThe Shahnameh by Ferdowsi is Iran's national epic and contains stories (partly historical and partly mythical) from pre-Islamic Zoroastrian times. The tomb of Ferdowsi (built early 1930), which is visited by numerous Iranians every year, contains the Faravahar icon as well.\n\nThe Sun Throne, the imperial seat of Persia, has strong relations from the \"Farahavar\". The sovereign would be seated in the middle of the throne, which is shaped like a platform or bed that is raised from the ground. This religious-cultural symbol was adapted by the Pahlavi dynasty to represent the Iranian nation. In present-day Zoroastrianism, the \"Faravahar\" is said to be a reminder of one's purpose in life, which is to live in such a way that the soul progresses towards \"frashokereti\", or union with Ahura Mazda, the supreme divinity in Zoroastrianism. Although there are a number of interpretations of the individual elements of the symbol, none of them are older than the 20th century.\n\nAfter the Islamic Revolution of 1979, the Lion and Sun, which was part of Iran's original national flag, was banned by the government from public places in order to prevent people from being reminded of life prior to the revolution. Nevertheless, Faravahar icons were not removed. As a result, the Faravahar icon became a national symbol amongst the people, and it became somewhat tolerated by the government as opposed to the Lion and Sun. The Faravahar is the most worn pendant amongst Iranians and has become a national symbol, rather than a religious icon because it has been absconded with by non-Zoroastrians, although its Zoroastrian roots should not be ignored. It's the symbol of the state religion of the Persian Empire: Zoroastrianism. Nowadays, it is a common symbol of both the modern and ancient Iranian state (which used to be Persia). Although Zoroastrianism is no longer Iran's state religion, it is an important, customary and traditional symbol. The winged discs has a long history in the art and culture of the ancient Near and Middle East. In Neo-Assyrian times, a human bust is added to the disk, the \"feather-robed archer\" interpreted as symbolizing Ashur. and the winged disc- Anshar\nWhile the symbol is currently thought to represent a \"Fravashi\" (approximately a guardian angel), from which it derives its name (see below), what it represented in the minds of those who adapted it from earlier Mesopotamian and Egyptian reliefs is unclear. Because the symbol first appears on royal inscriptions, it is also thought to represent the 'Divine Royal Glory' (\"Khvarenah\"), or the \"Fravashi\" of the king, or represented the divine mandate that was the foundation of a king's authority.\n\nThis relationship between the name of the symbol and the class of divine entities it represents, reflects the current belief that the symbol represents a \"Fravashi\". However, there is no physical description of the \"Fravashi\"s in the Avesta, the sacred texts of Zoroastrianism, and in Avestan the entities are grammatically feminine.\n"}
{"id": "263148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263148", "title": "Furcas", "text": "Furcas\n\nIn demonology, Furcas (also spelled Forcas) is a Knight of Hell (the rank of Knight is unique to him), and rules 20 legions of demons. He teaches Philosophy, Astronomy (Astrology to some authors), Rhetoric, Logic, Chiromancy and Pyromancy.\n\nFurcas is depicted as a strong old man with white hair and long white beard, who rides a horse while holding a sharp weapon (pitch fork). \n\nThe etymology of his name may be derived from the Latin word \"furca\", meaning fork, or from Greco-Roman also meaning a sepulchre (tomb). \n\n"}
{"id": "10981756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10981756", "title": "Ghanchi", "text": "Ghanchi\n\nGhanchi (Delvadia/Modh/Modi/Sahu/Sahoo/Teli/Ganiga/Gandhi) is an other backward caste found in the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and various parts of India. Ghanchi also refers to a well-known family based in India Gujarat in the regions of Kolak. Ghanchi caste has further many Gotra (Clan) which includes Gahlot, Borana, Sahu, Solanki, Bhati, Panwar, Parihar, Chauhan, Dayya, Devra, Dhandia, Nikub Parmar, Parihariya, Parmar, Sankhla & Surecha .\nThe Modh Ghanchi sub-caste is of (OBC). The Sahu, Teli, Ganiga and other OBC, are related castes found in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe name is of Indian origin, and means a businessman (producer and seller of oils) (Teli). The surname is commonly found in Lunavada, Surat, Navsari, Ahmedabad, Valsad, Bilimora as well as Ghanchi, Modh Ghanchi (Originally from Modhera, Gujarat), Saurashtra, Amreli, Bagasra, Bilkha, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Kalol, Kadi, parts of Rajasthan Jodhpur, Pali, Sojat, Sumerpur, Mumbai.\nThose of the Gandla cast who extract oil from oil seed are known as the Gandla community.\n"}
{"id": "4199532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4199532", "title": "Godrej Sidhwa", "text": "Godrej Sidhwa\n\nErvad Godrej Sidhwa (1925 – 4 June 2011) was born in Karachi, Pakistan and studied the Avesta, Pahalvi, Persian & Pazend languages, as well as Ancient Iranian literature at M.F. Cama Athornan Institute, Andheri, Mumbai, for six years. He was initiated into the Zoroastrian priesthood by going through the Navar and Maratab initiation ceremony from Iranshah Atash Behram, Udvada, India. His initiation as a priest accounts for the \"Ervad\" ('Reverend') title.\nSidhwa was the instructor of Zoroastrianism and Ancient Iranian History at the B.V.S. Parsi High School and Mama Parsi Secondary School, Karachi from the early 1960s until his death. He was appointed as the Honorary Lecturer in Zoroastrian Theology at colleges in Karachi for the Zoroastrian students. He was also appointed as Examiner in Zoroastrian Theology by the University of Karachi, Pakistan, for the Bachelor’s degree program. After the death of Dasturji Dr. M. N. Dhalla he took up all of the Dasturji's duties in the religious as well as the social areas.\n\nSidhwa lectured on Zoroastrian Theology in India, Pakistan, Iran, Canada, Britain, the United States and the United Arab Emirates. He also lectured on Zoroastrianism at University of California, Berkeley. On several occasions he has been invited by the Government of Pakistan to discuss the Human Rights and problems faced by religious minorities in Pakistan. He was the Honorary Secretary of The Karachi Parsi Anjuman Trust Fund, Karachi Athornan Mandal, and Joint Honorary Secretary of Dr. Dhalla Memorial Institute since its inception in 1965. He was also a jury delegate of Karachi Parsi Matrimonial Court, Government of Sindh, Pakistan, from 1960 until his death.\n"}
{"id": "16210158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16210158", "title": "Gurdwara Beri Sahib", "text": "Gurdwara Beri Sahib\n\nGurdawara Bair Sahib also called as Baba Beri or Baba Bair is situated in Sialkot, Pakistan. It was the place where Baba Guru Nanak stayed and met Hazrat Hamza Ghaus - a famous saint of Sialkot. The Bair tree under which Guru Nanak had stayed is still present. The Gurdawara was built by Natha Singh. A big well was also constructed by him inside this Gurdwara and many Persian wheels worked in it. A beautiful tank was also there. It also includes a garden, a pool and residential rooms. The Gurdawara was damaged in the wake of the Babari Masjid dispute. There used to be a very high temple which was razed to ground when it was demolished by an unruly mob. The Gurdwara is in urgent need of repairs.\n\n\n\nThese photos of Gurdwara are captured by Irfan Mirza & Kamran Saleem\n"}
{"id": "25735128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25735128", "title": "He-He Er Xian", "text": "He-He Er Xian\n\nHe-He Er Xian, translated as the Immortals of Harmony and Union and as the Two gods of Harmony and Union, are two Taoist immortals. They are popularly associated with happy marriages. He and He are typically depicted as boys holding a lotus flower (, \"hé\") and a box (, \"hé\").\n\n"}
{"id": "37664199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37664199", "title": "Imamah (Ismaili doctrine)", "text": "Imamah (Ismaili doctrine)\n\nThe doctrine of the Imamate in Isma'ilism differs from that of the Twelvers because the Isma'ilis had living Imams for centuries after the last Twelver Imam went into concealment. They followed Isma'il ibn Jafar, elder brother of Musa al-Kadhim, as the rightful Imam after his father, Ja'far al-Sadiq. The Ismailis believe that whether Imam Ismail did or did not die before Imam Ja'far, he had passed on the mantle of the imamate to his son Muhammad ibn Isma'il as the next imam.\nAccording to some early Isma'ilis, the Seveners, as well as the Qarmatians, a splinter group, the number of imams was fixed, with seven Imams preordained by God. These groups considers Muhammad ibn Isma'il, the foundation Imam of the Isma'ili branch of Shia Islam, to be the Mahdi and to be preserved in hiding, which is referred to as the Occultation.\n\nQarmatians believed that \"Muhammad ibn Isma'il was Imām al-Qā'im al-Mahdi\" and the last of the great messenger - prophets. On his reappearance, he would bring a new religious law by abrogating the one conveyed by the Prophet Muhammad. Qarmatians recognized a series of \"Seven law-announcing prophets\" called \"ūlul’l-ʿazm,\" namely, Nūh, Ibrāhīm, Mūsā, ʿIsā, Muhammad bin ʿAbd Allāh, Ali ibn Abu Tālib, and Muhammad bin Ismā‘īl, who was the seal of the series.\n\nAccording to the early Ismāʿīlis, God sent Seven great prophets, known as \"nātiq\" \"speakers\", in order to disseminate and improve Islam. All of these great prophets has an assistant, the Sāmad (Silent) Imam. After six silent imams, a \"nātiq\" was sent to reinvigorate Islam. After Adam and his son Seth, and after six “Nātiq” \"(Speaker)\" – “Sāmad” \"(Silent)\" silsila (Noah–Shem), (Abraham–Ishmael), (Moses–Aaron or Joshua), (Jesus–Simeon), (Muhammad bin ʿAbd Allāh–Ali ibn Abu Tālib); the silsila of “Nātıqs and Sāmads have been completed with (Muhammad bin Ismā‘īl as-ṣaghīr (Maymūn al-Qaddāh) – ʿAbd Allāh Ibn-i Maymūn and his sons).\n\nEarly Ismāʿīlis believed that hierarchical history of the mankind is created in \"Seven Eras\" of various durations each one inaugurated by \"speaker-prophet\" (known as \"nātiq\"). In the first \"Six Eras\" of human history, \"nātiqs\" or \"ūlul’l-ʿazm\" had been Adam, Nūh, Ibrāhīm, Mūsā, ʿIsā, Muhammad bin ʿAbd Allāh. Qarmatians, on the other hand, originally included Ali ibn Abu Tālib instead of Adam in their list of law-announcing prophets. Later substitution of Adam in place of Ali as one of the nātiqs, and the reduction of Ali's rank from a prophet level to that of Muhammad's successor indicate the renouncement of their extremist views. Furthermore, they believed that each of the first six nātiqs were succeeded by a spiritual legatee called \"wāsi\" or foundation \"asās\" or silent \"sāmit,\" who interpreted the inner esoteric \"(batin)\" meaning of the revelation. Each \"sāmit\" in turn was followed by \"Seven Imāms\" called \"atimmā',\" who guarded the true meaning of the scriptures and the laws.\n\nThe Nizari and Mustaali have several Imams in common; the Nizari consider Ali the first Imam and his son Hasan a pir while the Mustali label him \"al-Asās\" or \"the Foundation\" and call Hasan the first Imam.\n\n"}
{"id": "29774638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29774638", "title": "Islam in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "Islam in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nAccording to a 2009 Pew Research Center report, there are 1,000 Muslims in Northern Mariana Islands who constitute approximately 0.7% of the population.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "876449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876449", "title": "Jewish mysticism", "text": "Jewish mysticism\n\nAcademic study of Jewish mysticism, especially since Gershom Scholem's \"Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism\" (1941), distinguishes between different forms of mysticism across different eras of Jewish history. Of these, Kabbalah, which emerged in 12th-century Europe, is the most well known, but not the only typologic form, or the earliest to emerge. Among previous forms were Merkabah mysticism (c. 100 BC – 1000 AD), and Ashkenazi Hasidim (early 13th century AD) around the time of Kabbalistic emergence.\n\nKabbalah means \"received tradition\", a term previously used in other Judaic contexts, but which the Medieval Kabbalists adopted for their own doctrine to express the belief that they were not innovating, but merely revealing the ancient hidden esoteric tradition of the Torah. This issue is crystallised until today by alternative views on the origin of the Zohar, the main text of Kabbalah. Traditional Kabbalists regard it as originating in Tannaic times, redacting the Oral Torah, so do not make a sharp distinction between Kabbalah and early Rabbinic Jewish mysticism. Academic scholars regard it as a synthesis from Medieval times, but assimilating and incorporating into itself earlier forms of Jewish mystical tradition, as well as other philosophical elements.\n\nThe theosophical aspect of Kabbalah itself developed through two historical forms: \"Medieval/Classic/Zoharic Kabbalah\" (c.1175 – 1492 – 1570), and Lurianic Kabbalah (1569 AD – today) which assimilated Medieval Kabbalah into its wider system and became the basis for modern Jewish Kabbalah. After Luria, two new mystical forms popularised Kabbalah in Judaism: antinomian-heretical Sabbatean movements (1666 – 18th century AD), and Hasidic Judaism (1734 AD – today). In contemporary Judaism, the only main forms of Jewish mysticism followed are esoteric Lurianic Kabbalah and its later commentaries, the variety of schools in Hasidic Judaism, and Neo-Hasidism (incorporating Neo-Kabbalah) in non-Orthodox Jewish denominations.\n\nTwo non-Jewish syncretic traditions also popularised Judaic Kabbalah through its incorporation as part of general Western esoteric culture from the Renaissance onwards: theological Christian Cabala (c. 15th  – 18th century) which adapted Judaic Kabbalistic doctrine to Christian belief, and its diverging occultist offshoot Hermetic Qabalah (c. 15th century – today) which became a main element in esoteric and magical societies and teachings. As separate traditions of development outside Judaism, drawing from, syncretically adapting, and different in nature and aims from Judaic mysticism, they are not listed on this page.\n\nThe Kabbalistic form of Jewish mysticism itself divides into three general streams: the Theosophical/Speculative Kabbalah (seeking to understand and describe the divine realm), the Meditative/Ecstatic Kabbalah (seeking to achieve a mystical union with God), and the Practical/Magical Kabbalah (seeking to theurgically alter the divine realms and the World). These three different, but inter-relating, methods or aims of mystical involvement are also found throughout the other pre-Kabbalistic and post-Kabbalistic stages in Jewish mystical development, as three general typologies. As in Kabbalah, the same text can contain aspects of all three approaches, though the three streams often distill into three separate literatures under the influence of particular exponents or eras.\n\nWithin Kabbalah, the theosophical tradition is distinguished from many forms of mysticism in other religions by its doctrinal form as a mystical \"philosophy\" of Gnosis esoteric knowledge. Instead, the tradition of Meditative Kabbalah has similarity of aim, if not form, with usual traditions of general mysticism; to unite the individual intuitively with God. The tradition of theurgic Practical Kabbalah in Judaism, censored and restricted by mainstream Jewish Kabbalists, has similarities with non-Jewish Hermetic Qabalah magical Western Esotericism. However, as understood by Jewish Kabbalists, it is censored and forgotten in contemporary times because without the requisite purity and holy motive, it would degenerate into impure and forbidden magic. Consequently, it has formed a minor tradition in Jewish mystical history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31495132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31495132", "title": "Jordanian Interfaith Coexistence Research Center", "text": "Jordanian Interfaith Coexistence Research Center\n\nThe Jordanian Interfaith Coexistence Research Center (or JICRC) is a non-governmental organization for promoting peaceful religious coexistence based out of Amman, Jordan. It focuses on fostering interfaith dialogue on a grassroots level and creating interreligious harmony. The JICRC is currently run by its founder and director, Father Nabil Haddad.\n\nFather Nabil Haddad established the JICRC in 2003. He founded the center on what he described as “the belief that an approach of togetherness is needed to expand upon the conviction that all values, morals, and religions guide us to peace. JICRC calls for mutual respect and dignity for all people as human beings by emphasizing that we are all children of Adam.”\n\nThe JICRC is based out of its headquarters on Jebel Al-Weibdeh in Amman, Jordan. It is situated in between Luzmilla Hospital and the site of the oldest cathedral in Jordan.\n\nThe JICRC participates in many interfaith dialogue events. It has worked with the US Department of State and the US nonprofit Amideast program. Public figures including John Kerry and Laura Bush have publicly commended the JICRC for its interfaith dialogue work.\n\nThe JICRC plays an advisory role to both the Jordanian Government and other non-governmental organizations. The center also holds events in collaboration with the government to promote interfaith harmony, such as its February 2011 “Harmony: Jordan as a Model”, a celebration of the United Nations’ World Interfaith Harmony Week held in concert with the Jordanian Ministry of Islamic Affairs under the patronage of Prince Ghazi bin Mohammad.\n\nThe JICRC frequently hosts visiting groups of students, religious leaders, politicians, and academics. The JICRC also offers an internship program for current students and recent graduates.\n\nThe JICRC continues to be globally active through hosting and attending various conferences to promote interfaith dialogue and peaceful coexistence among different faiths. Over the past decade, the JICRC has launched several successful programs which seek to foster positive interfaith relations in Jordan, in the Middle East, and around the world.\n\n\"Imams for Coexistence\" is an effort to present to other societies the moderate voices of the Muslim world working for harmony, tolerance, moderation, and peaceful coexistence with others. This program brought imams to the United States in order to introduce young, progressive leaders to the culture, history, and society of the West and allow them to witness how different religions are expressed and peacefully in the western realm. \"Imams for Coexistence\" also gives the imams opportunities to interact with western societies in a positive and constructive way through participating in dialogues at public events, where they can discuss Islamic perspectives on human rights, democracy, and gender, while allowing them to address misconceptions and misunderstandings of Islam prevalent in a post-September 11 American and western society.\n\n\"Women for Coexistence\" consists of initiatives of workshops, camps and conferences, which provide an open forum for women to interact using the core interfaith values as a foundation for building harmony, religious coexistence, cultural understanding, gender equality, and peace.\n\n\"Youth for Coexistence\" provides a venue for Muslim and Christian youth to dialogue and to build relationships of respect and understanding. Youth who have the passion and the capacity to promote peace and understanding between the faith traditions will become the most effective future spokespersons for the cause of peaceful coexistence. The program includes conferences, camps and workshops. The purpose of this program is to involve youth in the development of grass roots program initiatives related to the JICRC’s Document on Islamic-Christian Interfaith Coexistence.\n\n\"Media and Coexistence\" is a newer project which seeks to promote balanced portrayal of interfaith relations in Jordanian media, empowering young journalists to use social media and learn more about the Jordanian model of interfaith harmony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14082082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14082082", "title": "Khorat Thai", "text": "Khorat Thai\n\nKhorat Thai or Korat Thai (Thai: ไทยโคราช) people refers to an ethnic group named for their main settlement area in Nakhon Ratchasima Province, unofficially called \"Korat\". Korat Thai people call themselves Tai Berng (ไทยเบิ้ง), Tai Derng (ไทยเดิ้ง), or Tai Korat (; ). Other tribes in northern Thailand also refer to them by those names.\n\nTheories of the origin of the name Tai berng are:\n\n\nThai Khorat people have their own traditions and cultures called Khorat culture, which is similar to the culture of Thai people on the central plain, but their own unique words, dialect, costumes, songs, and beliefs are different from the rest of the Tai-speaking peoples. In spite of their Isan domicile, populated by northeast Thai speakers, the Khorat Thai speak Central Thai. Their fluency in the official Thai language means has meant that the group does not appear on official lists of ethnic groups in Thailand.\n\nIn 1999, an estimated 10,000 Khorat Thai lived in Thailand. The population mainly inhabits two villages, Ban Nung Thap Prang and Ban Nong Samrong, both in the Chok Chai District about 20 kilometres (12 miles) south of the provincial capital. About 4,000 Khorat Thai live in each village. A few thousand Khorat Thai live in smaller villages in and around Nakhon Ratchasima City.\n\nIn addition to Nakhon Ratchasima Province, Thai Khorat also inhabit adjacent provinces:\n\n\nThe Khorat Thai can be traced back at least to the late-18th century, when King Narai of the Ayutthaya Kingdom ordered a new city built as the eastern fortress of his kingdom. This was the origin of Nakhon Ratchasima city. The city thus marked the boundary between Ayutthaya and the Lao regions.\n\nThe Khorat Thai are closely related to the Thai people. Some claim they are descended from Thai soldiers who married Khmer women, though evidence proving this is lacking.\n"}
{"id": "38279418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38279418", "title": "Kriminalgeschichte des Christentums", "text": "Kriminalgeschichte des Christentums\n\nKriminalgeschichte des Christentums (In English \"Criminal History of Christianity\") is the main work of the author and church critic Karlheinz Deschner. It describes the misconduct attributed to various Christian churches, denominations, sects, and leagues, as well as its representatives and Christian sovereigns during Christian history. The work covers the entire history of Christianity from its biblical beginnings until the present. It was published in ten volumes beginning in 1986, with the final volume appearing in March 2013.\n\nPartial or complete translations of this work have been published in Italian, Spanish, Greek, Polish, and Russian.\n\nIn the introduction to the complete works, which is the beginning of the first volume, Deschner explains his intention by starting with what is not to be found in his work: an answer to the question \"What is Christianity good for?\". According to the sentence \"Audiatur et altera pars\" (\"one should listen to the other side, too\") he wants to counterbalance the gigantic ascendence of the existing glorification of Christianity. Also, he does not want to write about the alleged or - exceptionally - really positive effects of Christianity. Instead, he wants to demonstrate that the advocates of a primary moral instance not only partially but permanently failed their own ideals. \n\nDeschner anticipates the main criticism at his work, namely the one-sidedness of selection of facts, and responds with a clear counter. His aim was not a history of churches, but an illustration of all (including non-churchy) phenomena of Christianity. These would be measured up to not only generic terms, like crime or humanity, but also to the central ethical ideas of the synoptics, as well as to the Christian self-conception as the religion of glad tidings, love, peace, etc., and also the ignored demands of the later church, like prohibition of military service (first for all Christians, then for the clergy, only), ban on simony, interest-taking, usury and many more.\n\nIn the following, all volumes are listed with an abstract for each of them. The English titles were taken from the author's English web-site where available. Where not available, they are marked as \"(translation)\".\n\n\nThis first volume was published after 16 years of preparatory work. It illustrates the genesis of Christianity and its ascension to the Roman state religion.\n\nIt starts with a look into the Old Testament. Deschner describes the land seizure of the Israelites after the crumbling Egyptian power in Palestine in the 14th and 13th century B.C.E. and the destruction of the Canaan city-state system. This beginning, which does not directly concern Christianity, but ancient Judaism, demonstrates the relation between religious rhetoric and violent political reality: This is where Deschner sees the origin of a tradition of holy wars, following which Christians later commit numerous mass murders in the name of Israel's God, too. He describes the many death penalties the Torah stipulates for religious offences, King David's policy of conquest, the ruling and corruption of the priests, and finally the decline of the state of Israel in Roman times.\n\nOnly this decline made the ascension of Christianity in the Roman empire possible, because Christians could see themselves as the true \"Israel of God\". Christian Anti-Judaism begins with the New Testament (see Antisemitism and the New Testament) and continues with the Church being interpreted as new Israel. Based on selected quotations, Deschner demonstrates the antisemitism of the Doctors of the Church Ephrem, John Chrysostom, Jerome and Hilary of Poitiers.\n\nLikewise, the Church Fathers - according to Deschner - agitated against \"heretics\" and \"misbelievers\". Deschner defends only Origen, whom he numbers among \"the most noble Christians at all\". One whole chapter is dedicated to the \"attacks against paganism\". He then analyses the persecution of Christians in the mirror of partially exaggerating martyr legends from Christian historiography as well as the retrospective Christian view of pagan emperors. Furthermore, Deschner looks at the \"first significant adversaries of Christianity\", Celsus and Porphyrios.\n\nAccording to Deschner, emperor Constantine I turned \"the church of pacifists into a church of battlefield-shavelings\". In Deschner's eyes, giving up the central pacifist values of pre-Constantine Christianity means \"a bankruptcy of Jesus' teachings\". Furthermore, Deschner describes Constantine's actions in the \"battle against Jews, \"heretics\" and Pagans\". He also does not spare the kingdom of Armenia, the first state in the world to make Christianity a state religion (in 301), by asserting that \"this immediately began with massive persecution of Pagans\".\n\nAbout emperor Julian Deschner writes that he \"towers over his Christian antecessors in all aspects: in character, ethical and intellectual.\". Julian's attempt to re-legitimate Pagan religions is commented as follows: \n\nThe volume closes with an evaluation of the Church Fathers Athanasius, Ambrose and Augustine. Deschner accuses Athanasius of \"unscrupulousness\" as well as \"striving for prestige and power\". Ambrose is in Deschner's words a \"fanatic antisemite\". Thanks to his church policies, \"adamant and intolerant, but not so direct; versed, smoother\", he set an \"example for the Church until today\" (page 400 and passim). And finally, Augustine, who positioned \"patriotism above the love of a father for his son\" (page 520) and sanctioned \"just war\" as well as \"holy war\".\n\n\nDeschner writes, the \"conditions as in ancient Rome\" (German \"Zustände wie im alten Rom\" is a proverb meaning decadent, chaotic, irresponsible, violent etc. - a civilisation in decline) were characteristic for the conditions of the Roman Church. The atrocities committed by Christian leaders in late antiquity are mostly euphemised and concealed by Church-historians until today.\n\n\nUnlike the other volumes, which used a chronological approach, Deschner organised this volume according to so-called crime key aspects, which he identifies in the following areas:\n\n\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, the split-off from Byzantium happened, the war against the Islam began and the popes in Rome became powerful rulers. Deschner considers pope Gregor I as a man of double morale, who consistently called to repentance and preached the close apocalypse, but himself pursued the extension of his power at any cost, recommending dungeon, torture, hostage-taking and pillaging, and also knew using bribery well. Deschner calls the Donation of Constantine \"the biggest forgery of documents in world history\". In the end of the volume, Charlemagne is accused of opportunistic relations to the popes, as well as blamed for his excessively bloody \"sword mission\" with the Saxons and his annihilation of the kingdoms of the Lombards and of the Avars.\n\n\nBefore the volume's actual beginning, a reply to the anthology \"Criminalisation of Christianity?\" and an editorial written by Hermann Gieselbusch (lector with Rowohlt publishing house) has been put.\n\nIn the then following description of the 9th and 10th century, Deschner illustrates the deep entanglement of secular and church power. Clerical principalities came into existence and the military service of the high clergy prospered. Under the Ottonian dynasty, the Church in the Holy Roman Empire was completely militarised; dioceses and abbeys controlled a major military potential. Even popes entered wars: Leo IV in the naval Battle of Ostia (849) and John X in the Battle of Garigliano (915). Popes excommunicated each other, some were thrown in prison, strangled, mutilated, poisoned. Sergius III had even two other popes murdered. Chapter 3 discusses the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals, which are the most important forgery in Carolingian times (Dawson).\n\n\nThis volume covers emperor Henry II the Holy, who, in alliance with Pagans, fought three wars against Catholic Poland, the momentous pontificate of Gregory VII, an \"aggressive Satan\", who lead the Holy See to victory over the emperor's throne in the Investiture Controversy (Canossa), the East-West Schism, the First Crusade with the massacre of Jerusalem's inhabitants as well as the Second and Third Crusade.\n\n\nDeschner writes about the Staufer-emperor Henry VI, who aimed for global dominance even without papal blessing, and about the most powerful pope of history, Innocent III. During the time covered by this volume, crusades to all directions happened, including the Fourth Crusade, the crusade of Frederick II, the crusades of Louis IX to Egypt and Tunis, the grotesque Children's Crusade, the crusades of Christians against Christians, the Sicilian Vespers, the extermination of the Templars, the annihilation of the Pagans in the northeast, the Christian murders of Jews and last but not least the totalitarian Inquisition, which aimed for the repression of any liberal mind.\n\n\nDeschner describes the beginning witch-hunt, the Western Schism, the Renaissance popes, the fight against intra-Christian opposition (Wycliffe, Hus and the Council of Constance, Luther and the German Peasants' War).\n\n\nVolume 9 covers the following topics:\n\n\nMore than a quarter century after the first volume's publication, Deschner completed this work: The 10th and last volume of the Criminal History is going to be published in March 2013. This volume covers:\n\nThe reactions to this book series have been mixed. While some praised Deschner's writings as a contribution to the Enlightenment as important as the works of Pierre Bayle, Claude Helvetius, Voltaire and Heinrich Heine, others condemned his \"Christianity's Criminal History\" as \"criminalisation of Christianity\".\n\n, from 1970 til 1975 professor of church law at the Catholic theological faculty of Münster University, who left the Catholic church in 1981, praised Deschner in 1989 in an article in Der Spiegel as a moralist asking the question: \n\nA three-day-symposium organized by Hans Reinhard Seeliger in the Catholic Academy in Schwerte was dedicated to the first three volumes in the beginning of October 1992. Besides Seeliger, 22 other specialists in Christian history, patrology, old history, archaeology, jurisprudence, and other fields participated. The symposium's papers were published in 1993 as an anthology. Deschner refused the invitation arguing that he already answered all basic questions sufficiently in the preface of his first volume. He decided to exemplarily confront the paper \"Emperor Konstantin, one of the Greats in history?\" in a reply which was put in front of the fifth volume. The other papers were skipped. Hermann Gieselbusch, lector with the Rowohlt publishing house, noted at the same place (preface of vol. 5), that only few symposium participants \"abstained at least from personal revilement\", mentioning four speakers by name - Ulrich Faust, Theofried Baumeister, Erich Feldmann und Gert Haendler - and thanking them for their fairness in Deschner's name.\n\nWhen Deschner's \"Criminal History\" (volumes 1 to 8) was published digitally as CD ROM in 2005, Giesbert Damaschke wrote in his recension: \n\nIn 2008, after the publication of volume 9, Arno Widmann wrote in the Frankfurter Rundschau, \"Kette der Grausamkeiten\" (\"Chain of atrocities\"): \n\n"}
{"id": "11677274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11677274", "title": "Last Roman Emperor", "text": "Last Roman Emperor\n\nLast Roman Emperor, Last World Emperor or Emperor of the Last Days is a figure of medieval European legend, which developed as an aspect of eschatology in the Catholic Church. The legend predicts that in the end times, a last emperor would appear on earth to reestablish the Holy Roman Empire and assume his function as biblical katechon who stalls the coming of the Antichrist. The legend first appears in the 7th-century apocalyptic text known as the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\"; that and the oracles of the Tiburtine Sibyl are its two most important sources. It developed over the centuries, becoming particularly prominent in the 15th century. The notion of Great Catholic Monarch is related to it, as is the notion of the Angelic Pope.\n\nThe biblical foundations for the concept of the Great Monarch can be found in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. References in the Old Testament can be found in Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel and Zechariah. It is also found in the New Testament. Catholic teaching refers to the 25th chapter of Matthew's Gospel in which Christ says that \"no one knows the hour or the day,\" except the Father in Heaven. The Church furthermore teaches that Christ indicated the approximation of these events in the New Testament, when he spoke of signs which would indicate that the \"end of days was near\". Some of these signs include natural disasters, civil problems, and other catastrophes. Of the precise time, however, it is unknown.\n\nThe legend is based on the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\", which was, after the Book of Daniel and the Book of Revelation, \"the most widespread apocalypse story in Europe\". It proposes a different Last Emperor from the previous figure, who fought against religious enemies, and introduced the conflict with Islam: he will \"go forth against them [the enemies of the faith] from the Ethiopian sea and will send the sword and desolation into Ethribus their homeland, capturing their women and children living in the Land of Promise\". After conquering his enemies he would travel to Jerusalem and relinquish his power on the Mount of Olives. The Last Emperor was further developed in the writings of Adso of Montier-en-Der, whose \"Libellus de Antichristo\" (ca. 954) was a popular biography of the Antichrist, whose coming was preceded by the rise of a Frankish ruler (the continuation of the Roman Empire); this Last Emperor would voluntarily give up his power and die, after which the Antichrist comes to power. Another important impetus came from the oracles of the Tiburtine Sibyl, first recorded in Latin around the year 1000; its legend proved particularly adaptable to rulers all over Europe, containing as it did a list of emperors and kings leading up to the Last Emperor which could be revised or added to as political and dynastic circumstances required. It still had great currency in the fifteenth century.\n\nEschatology is a part of theology and philosophy concerned with the final events in the history of the world, or the ultimate destiny of humanity, commonly referred to as the end of the world. \n\nWhile in mysticism the phrase metaphorically refers to the end of ordinary reality and reunion with the Divine, in the Catholic Church it is taught as an actual future event prophesied in sacred texts or prophecies or apocalyptic literature. \n\nMore broadly, it encompasses related concepts such as the Antichrist, the return of Jesus, the end times, end of days and the end of the world, the resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment, the renewal of creation, heaven and hell, the establishment of the kingdom of God, and the consummation of all of God's purposes, the fulfillment of Messianic prophecy and the beginning of the Messianic Age.\n\nThe term eschatology is often used in a more popular and narrower sense when comparing various interpretations of the Book of Revelation and other prophetic parts of the Bible, such as the Book of Daniel and various sayings of Jesus in the Gospels, such as the Olivet discourse and the Judgment of the Nations, concerning the timing of what many Christians believe to be the imminent second coming of Christ.\n\nThe concept of the Great King features prominently in mystical and folk traditions, as well as writings of people thought to have been granted gifts of prophecy or special visitations by messengers from heaven (such as angels, saints, or Christ). The Great Catholic Monarch was very popular in popular folklore until the 18th century Enlightenment. He reappeared in 19th century prophecy when French legitimists believed that the count of Chambord, Henry V of France would be the new king. \n\nSaint Remigius, bishop of Reims and apostle of the Franks, baptised Clovis I, king of the Franks on 24 December 496. This baptism, leading to the conversion of the entire Frankish people to Nicene Christianity, was a momentous success for the Catholic Church and a seminal event in European history. He had a vision and prophesied that in the distant future, the last monarch who descended from the line of the kings of France, would be revealed and reestablish the Holy Roman Empire at the end of time. This prophecy was related through Hincmar, archbishop of Reims, and Rabanus Maurus Magnentius O.S.B., archbishop of Mainz. Marie-Julie Jahenny (1850-1941), also known as the \"Breton\" stigmatist, prophesied that Henry V, the Count of Chambord, was the chosen King. Despite his death, one of her predictions dated 1890 declares he is yet \"reserved for the great epochs\", i.e. the end of time. \n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church speaks only of Christ as the king who is to be manifested in \"the last days\". It speaks of this manifestation as associated by his recognition by \"all Israel\" and preceded by the Church's ultimate trial, \"a religious deception offering men an apparent solution to their problems at the price of apostasy from the truth. The supreme religious deception is that of the Antichrist, a pseudo-messianism by which man glorifies himself in place of God and of his Messiah come in the flesh\". It makes no mention of the coming of any Great Catholic Monarch, whether French or German or of any continent.\n\nThe French writer and Traditionalist Catholic Yves Dupont has opined that the Great Monarch will have a restorationist character and that he will restore European Catholic royalty, destroy the power of heretics and atheists, and successfully convert many Muslims and Jews to the Faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15167202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15167202", "title": "Liber OZ", "text": "Liber OZ\n\n\"Liber OZ\" (or \"Book 77\") is a single page by English author and occultist Aleister Crowley purporting to declare mankind's basic and intrinsic rights according to Crowley's philosophy of Thelema. Written in 1941 (though based on a much earlier O.T.O. initiation lecture), the work consists of five succinct and concise paragraphs, being one of the last and shortest of Crowley's many \"libri,\" or books.\n\nCrowley wrote the piece for Louis Wilkinson in order to convey as simply as possible the \"O.T.O. plan in words of one syllable\" broken down into \"five sections: moral, bodily, mental, sexual, and the safeguard tyrannicide...\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49813579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49813579", "title": "List of Ancient Roman temples", "text": "List of Ancient Roman temples\n\nAncient Roman temples were built during antiquity by the people of ancient Rome or peoples belonging to the Roman Empire. These temples were dedicated to divinities from the Roman pantheon.\n\nMost of the best survivals had been converted to churches (and sometimes later mosques), which some remain. Rural areas in the Islamic world have some good remains, which had been left largely undisturbed. In Spain some remarkable discoveries (Vic, Cordoba, Barcelona) were made in the 19th century when old buildings being reconstructed or demolished were found to contain major remains encased in later buildings. In Rome, Pula, and elsewhere some walls incorporated in later buildings have always been evident. In most cases loose pieces of stone have been removed from the site, and some such as capitals may be found in local museums, along with non-architectural items excavated, such as terracotta votive statuettes or amulets, which are often found in large numbers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNot much remains to be seen, but there were temples at Ulpia Traiana Sarmizegetusa (6), Alburnus Major (2), Apulum, Tibiscum Porolissum and probably Potaissa (suggested by five neighboring altars), as well as other sites.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35081909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35081909", "title": "List of converts to the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "List of converts to the Bahá'í Faith\n\nThis is a list of converts to the Baha'i Faith organised by former religion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39658852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39658852", "title": "Ludwig Feuerbach", "text": "Ludwig Feuerbach\n\nLudwig Andreas von Feuerbach (; 28 July 1804 – 13 September 1872) was a German philosopher and anthropologist best known for his book \"The Essence of Christianity\", which provided a critique of Christianity which strongly influenced generations of later thinkers, including Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Richard Wagner, and Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nAn associate of Left Hegelian circles, Feuerbach advocated liberalism, atheism, and materialism. Many of his philosophical writings offered a critical analysis of religion. His thought was influential in the development of historical materialism, where he is often recognized as a bridge between Hegel and Marx.\n\nFeuerbach was the fourth son of the eminent jurist Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach, brother of mathematician Karl Wilhelm Feuerbach and uncle of painter Anselm Feuerbach. Feuerbach's other brothers were almost all distinguished in scholarship or science:\nHe also had three sisters:\n\nFeuerbach matriculated in the University of Heidelberg with the intention of pursuing a career in the church. Through the influence of Prof. Karl Daub he was led to an interest in the then predominant philosophy of Hegel and, in spite of his father's opposition, enrolled in the University of Berlin in order to study under the master himself. After 2 years, the Hegelian influence began to slacken. Feuerbach became associated with a group known as the Young Hegelians, alternately known as the Left Hegelians, who synthesized a radical offshoot of Hegelian philosophy, interpreting Hegel's dialectic march of spirit through history to mean that existing Western culture and institutional forms—and, in particular, Christianity—would be superseded. \"Theology,\" he wrote to a friend, \"I can bring myself to study no more. I long to take nature to my heart, that nature before whose depth the faint-hearted theologian shrinks back; and with nature man, man in his entire quality.\" These words are a key to Feuerbach's development. He completed his education at Erlangen, at the University of Erlangen with the study of natural science. He earned his habilitation from Erlangen on 25 July 1828 with his thesis \"De ratione una, universali, infinita\" (\"The Infinity, Unity and Universality of Reason\").\n\nHis first book, published anonymously, \"Gedanken über Tod und Unsterblichkeit\" (1830), contains an attack on personal immortality and an advocacy of the Spinozistic immortality of reabsorption in nature. These principles, combined with his embarrassed manner of public speaking, debarred him from academic advancement. After some years of struggling, during which he published his \"Geschichte der neueren Philosophie\" (2 vols., 1833–1837, 2nd ed. 1844), and \"Abelard und Heloise\" (1834, 3rd ed. 1877), he married in 1837 and lived a rural existence at Bruckberg near Nuremberg, supported by his wife's share in a small porcelain factory.\n\nIn two works of this period, \"Pierre Bayle\" (1838) and \"Philosophie und Christentum\" (1839), which deal largely with theology, he held that he had proven \"that Christianity has in fact long vanished not only from the reason but from the life of mankind, that it is nothing more than a fixed idea.\"\n\nHis most important work, \"Das Wesen des Christentums\" (1841), was translated by Mary Ann Evans (later known as George Eliot) into English as \"The Essence of Christianity\".\n\nFeuerbach's theme was a derivation of Hegel's speculative theology in which the Creation remains a part of the Creator, while the Creator remains greater than the Creation. When the student Feuerbach presented his own theory to professor Hegel, Hegel refused to reply positively to it.\n\nIn part I of his book Feuerbach developed what he calls the \"true or anthropological essence of religion.\" Treating of God in his various aspects \"as a being of the understanding,\" \"as a moral being or law,\" \"as love\" and so on. Feuerbach talks of how humankind is equally a conscious being, more so than God because humans have placed upon God the ability of understanding. Humans contemplate many things and in doing so they become acquainted with themselves. Feuerbach shows that in every aspect God corresponds to some feature or need of human nature. As he states, \"In the consciousness of the infinite, the conscious subject has for his object the infinity of his own nature.\"\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>Instead, Feuerbach concludes, \"If man is to find contentment in God,\" he claims, \"he must find himself in God.\"\n\nThus God is nothing else than human: he is, so to speak, the outward projection of a human's inward nature. This projection is dubbed as a chimera by Feuerbach, that God and the idea of a higher being is dependent upon the aspect of benevolence. Feuerbach states that, “a God who is not benevolent, not just, not wise, is no God,” and continues to say that qualities are not suddenly denoted as divine because of their godly association. The qualities themselves are divine therefore making God divine, indicating that humans are capable of understanding and applying meanings of divinity to religion and not that religion makes a human divine.\n\nThe force of this attraction to religion though, giving divinity to a figure like God, is explained by Feuerbach as God is a being that acts throughout humans in all forms. God, “is the principle of [man's] salvation, of [man's] good dispositions and actions, consequently [man's] own good principle and nature.” It appeals to humankind to give qualities to the idol of their religion because without these qualities a figure such as God would become merely an object, its importance would become obsolete, there would no longer be a feeling of an existence for God. Therefore, Feuerbach says, when humans remove all qualities from God, “God is no longer anything more to him than a negative being.” Additionally, because humans are imaginative, God is given traits and there holds the appeal. God is a part of a human through the invention of a God. Equally though, humans are repulsed by God because, “God alone is the being who acts of himself.”\n\nIn part 2 he discusses the \"false or theological essence of religion,\" i.e. the view which regards God as having a separate existence over against humankind. Hence arise various mistaken beliefs, such as the belief in revelation which he believes not only injures the moral sense, but also \"poisons, nay destroys, the divinest feeling in man, the sense of truth,\" and the belief in sacraments such as the Lord's Supper, which is to him a piece of religious materialism of which \"the necessary consequences are superstition and immorality.\"\n\nA caustic criticism of Feuerbach was delivered in 1844 by Max Stirner. In his book \"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" (\"The Ego and His Own\"), he attacked Feuerbach as inconsistent in his atheism. The pertinent portions of the books, Feuerbach's reply, and Stirner's counter-reply form an instructive polemics. (see External Links)\n\nDuring the troubles of 1848–1849 Feuerbach's attack upon orthodoxy made him something of a hero with the revolutionary party; but he never threw himself into the political movement, and indeed lacked the qualities of a popular leader. During the period of the Frankfurt Congress he had given public lectures on religion at Heidelberg. When the diet closed he withdrew to Bruckberg and occupied himself partly with scientific study, partly with the composition of his \"Theogonie\" (1857).\n\nIn 1860 he was compelled by the failure of the porcelain factory to leave Bruckberg, and he would have suffered the extremity of want but for the assistance of friends supplemented by a public subscription. His last book, \"Gottheit, Freiheit und Unsterblichkeit\", appeared in 1866 (2nd ed., 1890). In 1868 he read the first volume of Marx's \"Capital\" and joined the Social-Democratic Party. After a long period of decline, he died on September 13, 1872. He is buried in Johannis-Friedhof Cemetery in Nuremberg, which is also where the artist Albrecht Dürer is interred.\n\nEssentially the thought of Feuerbach consisted in a new interpretation of religion's phenomena, giving an anthropological explanation. Following Schleiermacher’s theses, Feuerbach thought religion was principally a matter of feeling in its unrestricted subjectivity. So the feeling breaks through all the limits of understanding and manifests itself in several religious beliefs. But, beyond the feeling, is the fancy, the true maker of projections of \"Gods\" and of the sacred in general.\n\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels were strongly influenced by Feuerbach's atheism, though they criticised him for his inconsistent espousal of materialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52831328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52831328", "title": "Osmanoğlu and Kocabaş v. Switzerland", "text": "Osmanoğlu and Kocabaş v. Switzerland\n\nOsmanoğlu and Kocabaş v. Switzerland was a case heard by the European Court of Human Rights in a chamber judgement concerning whether mandatory mixed-gender swimming for girls against the will of their Muslim parents who objected on religious grounds violated Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights by contravening religious freedom. On 10 January 2017 the court unanimously found that the convention had not been violated.\n\nThe case concerned parents of Turkish origin and Muslim faith, residing in Switzerland, who refused on religious grounds to permit their two daughters (born 1999 and 2001) take part in compulsory swimming lessons at their public school because in their view mixed-gendered swimming violated the requirement in Islam for females to be properly covered in front of males. In 2010, the authorities ordered the parents to pay a fine of 1,400 Swiss francs, about 1,292 euros, because their daughters had not taken the required class. According to the school, as the girls had not yet reached puberty they did not qualify for an exemption from swimming lessons under Swiss law. In 2011 the parents brought a case in a local court, which dismissed their claims, and in 2012 a Swiss federal court likewise dismissed the case with a finding that the parents' right to freedom of religion had not been violated.\n\nIn a unanimous chamber decision on 10 January 2017, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that states had a wide margin of discretion with regard to the balance between religious freedom and the state's wish to educate pupils according to their tradition and needs. It put emphasis on the fact that in the opinion of the court the school had shown flexibility by offering to allow the girls to swim in burkinis and to change their clothes in a room with no boys present. It further found that it was important for social integration, particularly for children of foreign origins, that pupils take full part in their education and not be exempted because of their parental background.\n\nThe court thus found that the Swiss authorities had been within their rights when they fined the girls' parents, also saying that the fine in this case was proportional to the aim pursued and not an unduly harsh punishment.\n\nAs a chamber judgment, the result may be appealed to the Grand Chamber.\n"}
{"id": "46715219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46715219", "title": "Parsiana", "text": "Parsiana\n\nParsiana, a semi-monthly magazine in English published from Bombay, carries information on, and features of interest to the International Zoroastrian community. As of 2015, it is in its 51st year of publication.\n\n\"Parsiana\" was founded in November 1964 by Pestonji Warden in Bombay. It's tag-line is \"A new medium for old wisdom\". The magazine covered articles pertaining to Zoroastrian religion, its history, customs and traditions.\n\nThe magazine became embroiled with community politics especially when Warden got into a tussle with the Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP) over the printing of the monthly at the Godrej Printing Press run by the apex Bombay trust. For some time it was cyclostyled.\n\nIn 1973 the aging Warden sold the publication for Re 1 to Jehangir Patel, a journalist. The ownership was subsequently transferred in 1983 to Parsiana Publications Private Limited.\n\n\"Parsiana\" was the first publication in India to use the prefix Ms when referring to women instead of Miss and Mrs, despite opposition from some readers. It has since dropped both Mr and Ms.\n\nBeginning in 1987 \"Parsiana\" began to collect and publish data on community births, marriages, and deaths in the Zoroastrian community in Bombay; as well as sporadic data received from outstation sources. In 1988 it published data on interfaith marriages in Bombay which proved highly controversial. There was a public outcry as a taboo had been broken. At that time the interfaith marriage count was 14%. In 2013 it was 39% and in 2014, 37%.\n\nSince 1999 \"Parsiana\" has been publishing a calendar issue every year, juxtaposing the Shahenshahi, Kadmi, and Fasli days and months within the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe \"Parsiana\" \"Book Of Iranian Names\" which contains authentic Iranian names is in its fourth edition, having first been published in 1978. The names were compiled by the late Avesta and Pahlavi scholar Ervad Jamshed Katrak and were vetted by Dasturs (Dr) Hormazdyar Mirza and (Dr) Kaikhusroo JamaspAsa, Ervad (Dr) Peshotan Peer, and Mahyar Patel.\n\nIn 2005 \"Parsiana\" published \"Judgments\", a 272-page book containing the judgements delivered in crucial community legal cases such as \"Petit vs Jejeebhoy\" (Parsi Punchayet case) and \"Saklat vs Bella\" along with other judgments and articles analyzing the pronouncements.\n\nIn 2002 \"Parsiana\" started the Parsiana Book Club which offers books on Zoroastrianism and Parsis written by community members and others.\n\nUnder a new management, the magazine’s focus shifted to journalistic coverage of current events, personalities and developments in the community in India and overseas. The first issue under the new management in August 1973 carried a cover story on Parsi divorces which were said to be the highest amongst any community in Indian (around 10%). Since then Parsiana has continued to cover controversial and unusual stories on all aspects of the community.\n\nAs the international coverage increased, \"Parsiana\" started a Zoroastrians Abroad column which is now published in every issue. The publication’s journalists have covered major events in many parts of the world including Iran, Hong Kong, Singapore, Dubai, London, New York and Los Angeles.\n\nThe magazine’s Readers’ Forum column contains letters from readers with three pages or more space being reserved for their views in every issue. The Events and Personalities column focuses on Parsis and Iranis in India who have made news, good or bad, and is one of the most popular columns.\n\nThe Politics and Policy column covers the various happenings in the anjumans and punchayets (associations) such as the Bombay Parsi Punchayet, the Delhi Parsi Anjuman and the Federation of the Parsi Zoroastrian Anjumans of India amongst others. Other columns include Books, In Memoriam, History, Art, Business, Sports, Food, Law. Parsiana has devoted extensive coverage to controversial court cases pertaining to crucial community issues and has championed several social causes.\n\nTo cater to the global Zoroastrian readership \"Parsiana\" started a website in 2002 which carried extracts from the magazine. Since December 2012 the entire contents of the \"Parsiana\" issues are posted on the website and are accessible to subscribers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1579479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579479", "title": "Pietra dura", "text": "Pietra dura\n\nPietra dura () or pietre dure (see below), called parchin kari or parchinkari in the Indian Subcontinent, is a term for the inlay technique of using cut and fitted, highly polished colored stones to create images. It is considered a decorative art. The stonework, after the work is assembled loosely, is glued stone-by-stone to a substrate after having previously been \"sliced and cut in different shape sections; and then assembled together so precisely that the contact between each section was practically invisible\". Stability was achieved by grooving the undersides of the stones so that they interlocked, rather like a jigsaw puzzle, with everything held tautly in place by an encircling 'frame'. Many different colored stones, particularly marbles, were used, along with semiprecious, and even precious stones. It first appeared in Rome in the 16th century, reaching its full maturity in Florence. Pietra dura items are generally crafted on green, white or black marble base stones. Typically, the resulting panel is completely flat, but some examples where the image is in low relief were made, taking the work more into the area of hardstone carving.\n\nPietre dure is an Italian plural meaning \"hard rocks\" or hardstones; the singular \"pietra dura\" is also encountered in Italian. In Italian, but not in English, the term embraces all gem engraving and hardstone carving, which is the artistic carving of three-dimensional objects in semi-precious stone, normally from a single piece, for example in Chinese jade. The traditional convention in English has been to use the singular \"pietra dura\" just to denote multi-colored inlay work. However, in recent years there has been a trend to use \"pietre dure\" as a term for the same thing, but not for all of the techniques it covers, in Italian. But the title of a 2008 exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, \"Art of the Royal Court: Treasures in Pietre Dure from the Palaces of Europe\" used the full Italian sense of the term, probably because they thought that it had greater brand recognition. The material on the website speaks of objects such as a vase in lapis lazuli as being examples of \"hardstone carving (\"pietre dure\")\" The Victoria & Albert Museum in London uses both versions on its website, but uses pietra dura (\"A method of inlaying coloured marbles or semi-precious stones into a stone base, often in geometric or flower patterns...\") in its \"Glossary\", which was evidently not consulted by the author of another page, where the reader is told: \"Pietre dure (from the Italian 'hard stone') is made from finely sliced coloured stones, precisely matched, to create a pictorial scene or regular design\". The English term \"Florentine mosaic\" is sometimes also encountered, probably developed by the tourist industry. Giovanni Montelatici (1864-1930) was an Italian Florentine artist whose brilliant work has been distributed across the world by tourists and collectors.\n\nIt is distinct from mosaic in that the component stones are mostly much larger and cut to a shape suiting their place in the image, not all of roughly equal size and shape as in mosaic. In pietra dura, the stones are not cemented together with grout, and works in pietra dura are often portable. Nor should it be confused with micromosaics, a form of mosaic using very small tesserae of the same size to create images rather than decorative patterns, for Byzantine icons, and later for panels for setting into furniture and the like.\n\nFor fixed inlay work on walls, ceilings, and pavements that do not meet the definition for mosaic, the terms intarsia or cosmati work/cosmatesque are better used. Similarly, for works that use larger pieces of stone (or tile), opus sectile may be used. Pietre dure is essentially stone marquetry. As a high expression of lapidary art, it is closely related to the jewelers art. It can also be seen as a branch of sculpture as three-dimensionality can be achieved, as with a bas relief.\n\nPietra dura developed from the ancient Roman opus sectile, which at least in terms of surviving examples, was architectural, used on floors and walls, with both geometric and figurative designs. In the Middle Ages cosmatesque floors and small columns etc. on tombs and altars continued to use inlays of different colours in geometric patterns. Byzantine art continued with inlaid floors, but also produced some small religious figures in hardstone inlays, for example in the Pala d'Oro in San Marco, Venice (though this mainly uses enamel). In the Italian Renaissance this technique again was used for images. The Florentines, who most fully developed the form, however, regarded it as 'painting in stone'.\n\nAs it developed in Florence, the technique was initially called \"opere di commessi\" (approximately, \"Fitted together works\"). Medici Grand Duke Ferdinando I of Tuscany founded the \"Galleria di'Lavori\" in 1588, now the Opificio delle pietre dure, for the purpose of developing this and other decorative forms.\n\nA multitude of varied objects were created. Table tops were particularly prized, and these tend to be the largest specimens. Smaller items in the form of medallions, cameos, wall plaques, panels inserted into doors or onto cabinets, bowls, jardinieres, garden ornaments, fountains, benches, etc. are all found. A popular form was to copy an existing painting, often of a human figure, as illustrated by the image of Pope Clement VIII, above. Examples are found in many museums. The medium was transported to other European centers of court art and remained popular into the 19th century. In particular, Naples became a noted center of the craft. By the 20th century, the medium was in decline, in part by the assault of modernism, and the craft had been reduced to mainly restoration work. In recent decades, however, the form has been revived, and receives state-funded sponsorship. Modern examples range from tourist-oriented kitsch including syrupy reproductions of 19th century style religious subjects (especially in Florence and Naples), to works copying or based on older designs used for luxurious decorative contexts, to works in a genuinely contemporary artistic idiom.\n\nBy the early part of the 17th century, smaller objects produced by the Opificio were widely diffused throughout Europe, and as far East to the court of the Mughals in India, where the form was imitated and reinterpreted in a native style; its most sumptuous expression is found in the Taj Mahal. In Mughal India, pietra dura was known as \"Parchin kari\", literally 'inlay' or 'driven-in' work.\n\nDue to the Taj Mahal being one of the major tourist attractions, there is a flourishing industry of Pietra Dura artifacts in Agra ranging from tabletops, medallions, elephants and other animal forms, jewellery boxes and other decorative items. This art form is fully alive and thriving in Agra, India though the patterns in the designs are more Persian than Roman or Medician.\n\n"}
{"id": "16833004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16833004", "title": "Religion in the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Religion in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nSeveral Protestant denominations, as well as the Roman Catholic Church, are active in every Micronesian state. Most Protestant groups trace their roots to American Congregationalist missionaries. On the island of Kosrae, the population is approximately 7,800; (95% Protestant). On Pohnpei, the population of 35,000 is evenly divided between Protestants and Catholics (50% catholic & 50% Protestant). On Chuuk and Yap, (an estimated 60% Catholic & 40% Protestant). Religious groups with small followings include Baptists, Assemblies of God, Salvation Army, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), and the Baha'i Faith. There is a small group of Buddhists on Pohnpei, (0.7% Buddhist) (population as of 2010). Attendance at religious services is generally high; churches are well supported by their congregations and play a significant role in civil society. The Ahmadiyya Muslims were registered in Kosrae in July 2015, despite strong public resistance against Islam in the country.\n\nMost immigrants are Filipino Catholics who have joined local Catholic churches. The Filipino Iglesia Ni Cristo also has a church in Pohnpei. In the 1890s, on the island of Pohnpei, intermissionary conflicts and the conversion of clan leaders resulted in religious divisions along clan lines which persist today. Protestants are the majority on the western side of the island, while Catholics are the majority on the eastern side. Missionaries of many religious traditions are present and operate freely. The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice. The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22411101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22411101", "title": "Religious development", "text": "Religious development\n\nChildhood- According to the psychologist Jean Piaget, children and adolescents go through 3 stages of religious development. From one study, in which children were asked about what they thought of religious pictures and Bible stories, Piaget's theories were supported by the children's responses.\n\n1) Pre-operational intuitive religious thought- This thought process can occur in children up to 7 to 8 years of age, it is marked by unsystematic and fragmented thoughts on children. Children do not understand or comprehend the stories and the evidence of religions.\n\n2) Concrete operational thought- Occurs between 7 and 8 to 13 or 14 years of age, children now focus on particular details of pictures and stories.\n\n3) Formal operational thought- From 14 through the rest of adolescents, abstract religious thoughts start to occur in adolescents.\n\nEarly Adulthood- The importance of religion in the lives of people in early adulthood has been going down since the 21st century. Religious importance in early adulthood is still high in less developed countries compared to developed countries where its on the downfall. During this age, people start going through identity development which may lead them to start thinking deeper into religious beliefs.\n\nAdulthood- Religion increase in importance in some studies later in adulthood. 70 percent of U.S individuals surveyed said they are religious and consider spirituality a major part of their lives (Brim 1999). However, studies are also showing that adults are becoming less devoted to one particular religion. Instead they are focused more on their own spiritual journeys.\n\nParenting- Parents can have a strong effect on religious development in children and adolescents, as they tend to adopt the religion that is practiced during their upbringing. The relationship between parents and their children however can change this. If there is a positive relationship between the parents and child, the child will be more likely to adopt their religious beliefs. In the case where there is a negative relationship between the parents and child, the child will be more likely to disaffiliate themselves with their parents religious ideas.\n\nRace and Gender- Race and gender play a major role in religious development as well. Females tend to believe there is a higher power more than males. They also participate more in organized and personal forms of religion. Females also are more likely to feel like religion is a major factor in their lives. In regards to race, Latinos and African Americans show higher rates of participation in religion than White Americans. Religious importance also varies from country to country. In a study of emerging adults, Japanese said that religion had a 0 percent importance in their lives compared to a high of 93 percent saying it has a very high importance in their lives in Nigeria. 40 percent of emerging adults in Sweden believe in God compared to a high of 100 percent belief in God in Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "1896677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896677", "title": "Rule of Three (Wicca)", "text": "Rule of Three (Wicca)\n\nThe Rule of Three (also Three-fold Law or Law of Return) is a religious tenet held by some Wiccans/Pagans and occultists. It states that whatever energy a person puts out into the world, be it positive or negative, will be returned to that person three times. Some subscribe to a variant of this law in which return is not necessarily threefold.\n\nThe Rule of Three is sometimes described as karma by Wiccans; however, this is not strictly accurate. Both concepts describe the process of cause and effect and often encourage the individual to act in an upright way. In Hindu Vedanta literature, there is a comparable idea of threefold Karma referred to as Sanchita (accumulated works), Prarabdha (fructifying works) and Kriyamana, Agami, or Vartamana (current works), which are associated with past, present and future respectively. According to some traditions, the rule of three is not literal but symbolizes that our energy returns our way as many times as needed for us to learn the lesson associated with it.\n\nAccording to John Coughlin, the Law posits \"a literal reward or punishment tied to one's actions, particularly when it comes to working magic\". The law is not a universal article of faith among Wiccans, and \"there are many Wiccans, experienced and new alike, who view the Law of Return as an over-elaboration on the Wiccan Rede.\" Some Wiccans believe that it is a modern innovation based on Christian morality.\n\nThe Rule of Three has been compared by Karl Lembke to other ethics of reciprocity, such as the concept of karma in Dharmic religions and the Golden Rule\n\nThe Rule of Three has a possible prototype in a piece of Wiccan liturgy which first appeared in print in Gerald Gardner's 1949 novel \"High Magic's Aid\":\n\nHowever, The Threefold Law as an actual \"law\", was an interpretation of Wiccan ideas and ritual, made by noted witch Monique Wilson (1923-1982) and further popularized by Raymond Buckland, in his books on Wicca. Prior to this innovation by Wilson and its subsequent inclusion in publications, Wiccan ideas of reciprocal ethics were far less defined and more often interpreted as a kind of general karma.\n\nRaymond Buckland made a reference to an ethical threefold law in a 1968 article for \"Beyond\" magazine. The Rule of Three later features within a poem of 26 couplets titled \"Rede of the Wiccae\", published by Lady Gwen Thompson in 1975 in \"Green Egg\" vol. 8, no. 69 and attributed to her grandmother Adriana Porter. The threefold rule is referenced often by the Wiccans of the Clan Mackenzie in the S.M. Stirling Emberverse novels.\n\nThis rule was described by the Dutch metal band Nemesea, in the song \"Threefold Law\", from the album \"Mana\".\n\nThough much closer to Rosicrucianism than Wicca, Rudolf Steiner's \"spiritual science\" or \"anthroposophy\" includes a type of threefold law. This is not, however, a theory of power. In Anthroposophy, the focus is on gaining the supersensible insight to bring spiritual power to any natural area of human endeavor like art, education, business, or politics - and also less obviously practical human pursuits like religion or philosophy. \n\nSteiner lays out this theory in a fairly comprehensive way in his 1904 book, \"Knowledge of Higher Worlds and its Attainment.\" In chapter two, \"The Stages of Initiation,\" he states the threefold law as follows.\n\n\"...Once the student has found the beginnings of spiritual vision by means of such exercises, he may proceed to the contemplation of man himself. Simple phenomena of human life must first be chosen. But before making any attempt in this direction it is imperative for the student to strive for the absolute purity of his moral character. He must banish all thought of ever using knowledge gained in this way for his own personal benefit. He must be convinced that he would never, under any circumstances, avail himself in an evil sense of any power he may gain over his fellow-creatures. For this reason, all who seek to discover through personal vision the secrets in human nature must follow the golden rule of true spiritual science. This golden rule is as follows: For every one step that you take in the pursuit of higher knowledge, take three steps in the perfection of your own character.\" (Knowledge of Higher Worlds and its Attainment, 1904) (\n\nThe focus of the law is not on any obvious consequences to the practitioner; it's more of a natural law. Without having taken the requisite steps, one will not \"be able to\" make an advance into true knowledge. One may get some results, but those results are likely to be delusions, into which one can fall at any time.\n\n"}
{"id": "11097960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11097960", "title": "Sabbath", "text": "Sabbath\n\nSabbath () () is a day set aside for rest and worship. According to the Book of Exodus the Sabbath is a day of rest on the seventh day, commanded by God to be kept as a holy day of rest, as God rested from creation. It is observed differently among the Abrahamic religions and informs a similar occasion in several other practices. Although many viewpoints and definitions have arisen over the millennia, most originate in the same textual tradition of: \"Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy\".\n\nThe term has been used to describe a similar weekly observance in any of several other traditions; the first crescent or new moon; any of seven annual festivals in Judaism and some Christian traditions; any of eight annual pagan festivals (usually \"sabbat\"); an annual secular holiday; and a year of rest in religious or secular usage, the sabbath year, originally every seventh year.\n\nSabbath (as the verb שָׁבַת֙ \"šāḇaṯ\") is first mentioned in the Genesis creation narrative, where the seventh day is set aside as a day of rest (in Hebrew, \"shabbath\"), and made holy by God (). Observation and remembrance of Sabbath ( \"šabbaṯ\") is one of the Ten Commandments (the fourth in the original Jewish, the Eastern Orthodox, and most Protestant traditions, the third in Roman Catholic and Lutheran traditions). Most people who observe the Sabbath regard it as having been instituted as a perpetual covenant for the Israelites (), as a sign respecting two events: the day during which God rested after having completed Creation in six days (), and the Israelites' deliverance from Egypt (). The different Sabbaths were to be revered as a shadow of the Christ who was to come (Colossians 2:16–17) who would give mankind rest from their labors in trying to make themselves acceptable before God. For if we rest in the work of Christ on the cross, then we can cease from our own works or self efforts in trying to make ourselves acceptable before God (Hebrews: 4:9–11), however the weekly Sabbath was still to be kept even after Jesus' ascension (Matthew 24:20). Originally, Sabbath-breakers were officially to be cut off from the assembly or potentially killed (). Observance in the Hebrew Bible was universally from sixth-day sundown to seventh-day sundown (, cf. ), on a seven-day week. Consultations with prophets (II Kings iv. 23) were sought on the Sabbath. Sabbath corporate worship was not prescribed for the community at large and the Sabbath activities at the shrines were originally a convocation of priests for the purpose of offering divine sacrifices with family worship and rest being centered in homes. \n\nBy synecdoche (naming the whole for a part), in Jewish sources by the time of the Septuagint, the term \"Sabbath\" (Greek \"Sabbaton\", Strong's \"4521\") also came to mean an entire \"se'nnight\" or seven-day week, the interval between two weekly Sabbaths. Jesus's parable of the Pharisee and the Publican () describes the Pharisee as fasting \"twice a week\" (Greek \"dis tou sabbatou\", literally, \"Twice of the Sabbath\").\n\n\"High Sabbaths\" are observed by Jews and some Christians. Seven annual Biblical festivals, called \"miqra\" (\"called assembly\") in Hebrew and \"High Sabbath\" in English and serving as supplemental testimonies to Sabbath, are specified in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy; they do not necessarily fall on weekly Sabbath. Three occur in spring: the first and seventh days of Pesach (Passover), and Shavuot (Pentecost). Four occur in fall, in the seventh month, and are also called \"Shabbaton\": Rosh Hashanah (Trumpets); Yom Kippur, \"Sabbath of Sabbaths\" (Atonement); and the first and eighth days of Sukkoth (Tabernacles). \"High Sabbaths\" is also often a synonym of \"High Holy Days\", viz., Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.\n\n\"Shmita\" (, Strong's 8059 as \"shmittah\", literally \"release\"), also called sabbatical year, is the seventh (שביעי, Strong's 7637 as \"shbiy'iy\") year of the seven-year agricultural cycle mandated by Torah for the Land of Israel, relatively little observed in Biblical tradition, but still observed in contemporary Judaism. During \"Shmita\", the land is left to lie fallow and all agricultural activity, including plowing, planting, pruning and harvesting, is forbidden by Torah and Jewish law. By tradition, other cultivation techniques (such as watering, fertilizing, weeding, spraying, trimming and mowing) may be performed as preventative measures only, not to improve the growth of trees or plants; additionally, whatever fruits grow of their own accord during that year are deemed \"hefker\" (ownerless), not for the landowner but for the poor, the stranger, and the beasts of the field; these fruits may be picked by anyone. A variety of laws also apply to the sale, consumption and disposal of \"Shmita\" produce. When the year ended, all debts, except those of foreigners, were to be remitted (); in similar fashion, Torah requires a slave who had worked for six years to go free in the seventh year. Leviticus 25 promises bountiful harvests to those who observe \"Shmita\", and describes its observance as a test of religious faith. The term \"Shmita\" is translated \"release\" five times in the Book of Deuteronomy (from the root שמט, \"shamat\", \"\"desist\", \"remit\"\", 8058).\n\nJewish \"Shabbat\" (\"Shabbath\", \"Shabbes\", \"Shobos\", etc.) is a weekly day of rest, observed from sundown on Friday until the appearance of three stars in the sky on Saturday night. It is also observed by a minority of Christians, such as adherents of Messianic Judaism and Seventh-day Adventists. Thirty-nine activities prohibited on \"Shabbat\" are listed in Tractate \"Shabbat\" (Talmud). Customarily, \"Shabbat\" is ushered in by lighting candles shortly before sunset, at halakhically calculated times that change weekly and geographically. \"The Dead Sea Scrolls Uncovered\", a translation by Robert Eisenman and Michael Wise, reveals the Essene calendar as celebrating the Sabbath commencing on the 4th day of Abib (Nisan) page 192 3 days after the new moon of the Passover month then celebrated on the 11th, 18th and 25th. The second Essene month reveals a Sabbath on the second day exactly 7 days from the 25th of Abib Sabbath witnessing a solar calendar continuation for the rest of the year. The Essenes did it this way to be in harmony with the book of Genesis where God created the moon and sun on the 4th day and rested 3 days later.\n\nJudah ha-Levi (12th century) proposed a nascent Jewish date line for dating of \"Shabbat\", later calculated to fall between China and Japan (other lines exist, and travelers are expected to note both personal and local \"Shabbat\"); and Pinchas Elijah Horovitz (18th century) stated that polar regions should observe \"Shabbat\" based on calculating 24-hour days, although without establishing a date line.\n\n\"Shabbat\" is a widely noted hallmark of Jewish peoples. Subbotniks (literally, Sabbatarians) are a Russian sect, categorized as either Jews or Judaizing Christians, that became particularly branded by strict \"Shabbat\" observance; (Hungarian-born radical Reform leader Ignaz Einhorn even shifted his congregation's \"Shabbat\" worship to Sundays.) Several weekly \"Shabbat\"s per year are designated as Special Sabbaths, such as \"Shabbat haGadol\", prior to Pesach (literally, \"the High Sabbath\", but not to be confused with other High Sabbaths); and \"Shabbat Teshuvah\", prior to Yom Kippur (\"Repentance Sabbath\").\n\nColloquially, in contemporary Israel, the term \"Shabbaton\" or \"Shaboson\" means an event or program of education and usually celebration held on \"Shabbat\", or over an entire weekend with main focus on \"Shabbat\". Such events are held by youth groups, singles groups, synagogues, schools, social groups, charitable groups or family reunions, can be either multi-generational and wide-open or limited-group, and can be held where a group usually meets or offsite. \"Shabbaton\", rather than just \"retreat\", signifies recognition of the importance of \"Shabbat\" in the event or program.\n\nIn Eastern Christianity, the Sabbath is considered still to be on Saturday, the seventh day, in remembrance of the Hebrew Sabbath. In Catholicism and most sects of Protestantism, the \"Lord's Day\" (Greek Κυριακή) is considered to be on Sunday, the first day (and \"eighth day\"). Communal worship, including the Holy Mysteries, may take place on any day, but a weekly observance of the resurrection is made consistently on Sunday. Western Christianity sometimes refers to the Lord's Day as a \"Christian Sabbath\", distinct from the Hebrew Sabbath, but related in varying manner.\n\nSince Puritan times, most English-speaking Protestants identify the \"Lord's Day\" (viz., Sunday) with a \"Christian Sabbath\", a term Roman Catholics in those areas may also celebrate with the Eucharist. It is considered both the first day and the \"eighth day\" of the seven-day week. Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints generally follow the stronger of first-day Christian Sabbatarian traditions, avoiding shopping, leisure activities, and work unless absolutely necessary. In Tonga, all commerce and entertainment activities cease on Sunday, starting at midnight and ending the next day, at midnight, as Tonga's constitution declares the Sabbath sacred forever. In Oriental Orthodoxy, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has observed both Sunday Resurrection Day and Saturday Sabbath in different ways for several centuries, as have other Eastern Orthodox traditions.\n\nPuritan Sabbatarianism or Reformed Sabbatarianism is strict observance of Sabbath in Christianity that is typically characterized by its avoidance of recreational activities. \"Puritan Sabbath\", expressed in the \"Westminster Confession of Faith\", is often contrasted with \"Continental Sabbath\": the latter follows the Continental Reformed confessions such as the \"Heidelberg Catechism\", which emphasize rest and worship on Lord's Day, but do not forbid recreational activities.\n\nSeveral Christian denominations observe Sabbath in a similar manner to Judaism, though with observance ending at Saturday sunset instead of Saturday nightfall. Early church historians Sozomen and Socrates cite the seventh day as the Christian day of worship except for the Christians in Rome and Alexandria. Many Sabbatarian Judeo-Christian groups were attested during the Middle Ages; the Szekler Sabbatarians were founded in 1588 from among the Unitarian Church of Transylvania and maintained a presence until the group converted to Judaism in the 1870s. Seventh Day Baptists have observed Sabbath on Saturday since the mid-17th century (either from sundown or from midnight), and influenced the (now more numerous) Seventh-day Adventists in America to begin the practice in the mid-19th century. They believe that keeping seventh-day Sabbath is a moral responsibility equal to that of any of the other Ten Commandments, based on the example of Jesus. They also use \"Lord's Day\" to mean the seventh day, based on Scriptures in which God calls the day \"my Sabbath\" () and \"to the \" () and in which Jesus calls himself \"Lord of Sabbath\" (). The question of defining Sabbath worldwide on a round earth was resolved by some seventh-day Sabbatarians by making use of the International Date Line (i.e., permitting local rest-day adjustment, ), while others (such as some Alaskan Sabbatarians) keep Sabbath according to Jerusalem time (i.e., rejecting manmade temporal customs, ). Many of the Lemba in southern Africa, like some other African tribes, are Christians and claim common descent from the Biblical Israelites, keep one day a week holy like Sabbath, and maintain many beliefs and practices associated with Judaism.\n\nIn 321 AD, Roman emperor Constantine the Great enacted the first civil law regarding Sunday observance. The law did not mention the Sabbath by name, but referred to a day of rest on \"the venerable day of the sun.\"\nAn Abridgment of the Christian Doctrine: \n\nThe Augsburg Confession:\n\nA Doctrinal Catechism,\n\nCatholic Christian:\n\nThe Catechism of the Council of Trent:\n\nThe new moon, occurring every 29 or 30 days, is an important separately sanctioned occasion in Judaism and some other faiths. It is not widely regarded as Sabbath, but some messianic and Pentecostal churches, such as the native New Israelites of Peru and the Creation Seventh Day Adventist Church, do keep the day of the new moon as Sabbath or rest day, from evening to evening. New-moon services can last all day.\n\nSome modern sects who are Sabbath keepers have suggested a Sabbath based on the New Moon citing Psalm 104:19 and Genesis 1:14 as a key prooftexts. Observers recognize the 1st, 8th, 15th, 22nd, and 29th days of the month of the Hebrew Calendar as Sabbath days which should be observed. They reject the 7 day week as non-biblical. The Lunar Sabbath theory is rejected by most Sabbatarian groups and Judaism as false and misleading.\n\nDay of the Vow or Dingane's Day (Afrikaans \"Geloftedag\" or \"Dingaansdag\", December 16) was the name of a religious public holiday in South Africa commemorating a famous Boer victory over the Zulu. Celebrated as annual Sabbath (a holy day of thanksgiving) since 1838, it was renamed Day of Reconciliation in 1994. The anniversary and its commemoration are intimately connected with various streams of Afrikaner and South African nationalism.\n\nSince Hippolytus of Rome in the early third century, Christians have often considered that some thousand-year Sabbath, expected to begin six thousand years after Creation, might be identical with the millennium described in the Book of Revelation. This view was also popular among 19th- and 20th-century dispensational premillennialists. The term \"Sabbatism\" or \"Sabbatizing\" (Greek \"Sabbatismos\"), which generically means any literal or spiritual Sabbath-keeping, has also been taken in to have special reference to this definition.\n\nAs another minority view, some modern Christians uphold Sabbath principles but do not limit observance to either Saturday or Sunday, instead advocating rest on any one chosen day of the week as following the spirit of Sabbath, or advocating Sabbath as instead a symbolic metaphor for rest in Christ. These look upon Sabbath as a principle to be observed in spirit rather than in letter, regarding the rest offered in Jesus as the only New Testament admonishment containing the root word of \"Sabbath\" () and sometimes as a more permanent rest than a day could fulfill ().\n\nIn 1831, Joseph Smith published a revelation commanding his related movement, the formative Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to go to the house of prayer, offer up their sacraments, rest from their labors, and pay their devotions on the Lord's day (D&C 59:9–12).\n\nMormons believe this means performing no labor that would keep them from giving their full attention to spiritual matters (Ex. 20:10). LDS prophets have described this as meaning they should not shop, hunt, fish, attend sports events, or participate in similar activities on that day. Elder Spencer W. Kimball wrote in his \"The Miracle of Forgiveness\" that mere idle lounging on the Sabbath does not keep the day holy, and that it calls for constructive thoughts and acts.\n\nMormons are encouraged to prepare their meals with \"singleness of heart\" on the Sabbath (D&C 59:13) and believe the day is only for righteous activities (Is. 58:13.) In most areas of the world, Mormons worship on Sunday.\n\nIn harmony with this revelation, members of the LDS church attend sacrament meeting each week. Other Sabbath-day activities may include: praying, meditating, studying the scriptures and the teachings of latter-day prophets, writing letters to family members and friends, reading wholesome material, visiting the sick and distressed, and attending other Church meetings.\n\nThe Quran acknowledges a six-part Creation period (32:4, 50:38) and the Biblical Sabbath as the seventh-day (\"yaum as-Sabt\": 2:65, 4:47, 154, 7:163, 16:124), but Allah's mounting the throne after Creation is taken in contradistinction to Elohim's concluding and resting from his labors, and so Muslims replace Sabbath rest with \"jumu'ah\" (Arabic جمعة ). Also known as \"Friday prayer\", \"jumu'ah\" is a congregational prayer (\"salat\") held every Friday (the Day of Assembly), just after midday, in place of the otherwise daily \"dhuhr\" prayer; it commemorates the creation of Adam on the sixth day, as a loving gathering of Adam's sons. The Quran states: \"When the call is proclaimed to prayer on Friday, hasten earnestly to the Remembrance of Allah, and leave off business: That is best for you if ye but knew\" (62:9). The next verse (\"When the prayer is ended, then disperse in the land ...\") leads many Muslims not to consider Friday a rest day, as in Indonesia, which regards the seventh-day Sabbath as unchanged; but many Muslim countries, such as Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bangladesh, do consider Friday a nonwork day, a holiday or a weekend; and other Muslim countries, like Pakistan, count it as half a rest day (after the Friday prayer is over). \"Jumu'ah\" attendance is strictly incumbent upon all free adult males who are legal residents of the locality.\n\nCounting from the new moon, the Babylonians celebrated the 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th as \"holy-days\", also called \"evil days\" (meaning \"unsuitable\" for prohibited activities). On these days officials were prohibited from various activities and common men were forbidden to \"make a wish\", and at least the 28th was known as a \"rest-day\". On each of them, offerings were made to a different god and goddess. Tablets from the 6th-century BCE reigns of Cyrus the Great and Cambyses indicate these dates were sometimes approximate. The lunation of 29 or 30 days basically contained three seven-day weeks, and a final week of nine or ten days inclusive, breaking the continuous seven-day cycle. The Babylonians additionally celebrated the 19th as a special \"evil day\", the \"day of anger\", because it was roughly the 49th day of the (preceding) month, completing a \"week of weeks\", also with sacrifices and prohibitions. Difficulties with Friedrich Delitzsch's origin theory connecting Hebrew \"Shabbat\" with the Babylonian lunar cycle include reconciling the differences between an unbroken week and a lunar week, and explaining the absence of texts naming the lunar week as \"Shabbat\" in any language. Reconstruction of a broken tablet seems to define the rarely attested Babylonian Akkadian word \"Sapattu\" or \"Sabattu\" as the full moon: this word is cognate or merged with Hebrew \"Shabbat\", but is monthly rather than weekly. It is regarded as a form of Sumerian \"sa-bat\" (\"mid-rest\"), attested in Akkadian as \"um nuh libbi\" (\"day of mid-repose\"). This conclusion is a contextual restoration of the damaged Enûma Eliš creation mythos, which is read as: \"[Sa]pattu shalt thou then encounter, mid[month]ly.\"\n\nThe pentecontad calendar, thought to be of Amorite origin, includes a period known to Babylonians as \"Shappatum\". The year is broken down into seven periods of fifty days (made up of seven weeks of seven days, containing seven weekly Sabbaths, and an extra fiftieth day, known as the \"atzeret\"), plus an annual supplement of fifteen or sixteen days, called \"Shappatum\", the period of harvest time at the end of each year. Identified and reconstructed by Hildegaard and Julius Lewy in the 1940s, the calendar's use dates back to at least the 3rd millennium BCE in Western Mesopotamia and surrounding areas; it was used by the Canaanite tribes, thought by some to have been used by the Israelites prior to King Solomon, and related to the liturgical calendar of the Essenes at Qumran. Used well into the modern age, forms of it have been found in Nestorianism and among the Palestinian \"fellaheen\". Julius Morgenstern believed that the calendar of the Jubilees had ancient origins as a somewhat modified survival of the pentecontad calendar.\n\nIn relating to the seventh and other days of the month, the Zoroastrian calendar contributed to the Jewish calendar. A number of writings by early Christians in the New Testament apocrypha (Zostrianos, Marsenes and Allogenes) describe God's revelation received by a man named Zostrianos. Further evidence of Zoroastrian influence on Judaic tradition is demonstrated through Nehemiah, the Priest in the Book of Nehemiah, a book of the Neviim contained in the Tanakh. With the support and protection of Artaxerxes I of Persia (445/444 BCE), Nehemiah purified the Temple and the priests and Levites and enforced the observance of the law of Moses. \nFor exemplar, the observance of Passover coincides with Nowruz, the Zoroastrian New Year which marks the first day of spring or vernal Equinox.\n\nThe \"Uposatha\" has been observed since Gautama Buddha's time (500 BCE), and is still being kept today in Theravada Buddhist countries. It occurs every seven or eight days, in accordance with the four phases of the moon. Buddha taught that \"Uposatha\" is for \"the cleansing of the defiled mind\", resulting in inner calm and joy. On this day, disciples and monks intensify their practice, deepen their knowledge, and express communal commitment through millennia-old acts of lay-monastic reciprocity.\nThai Chinese likewise observe their Sabbaths and traditional Chinese holidays according to lunar phases, but not on exactly the same days as \"Uposatha\". These Sabbaths cycle through the month with respect to the Thai solar calendar, so common Thai calendars incorporate Thai and Chinese calendar lunar dates, as well as \"Uposatha\" dates, for religious purposes.\n\nThe first day of the new moon, beginning at sunrise, is a holiday of quiet reflection and prayer among the Cherokee. Monthly fasting is encouraged, for up to four days. Work, cooking, sex and childbirth were also prohibited during the empty moon days, called \"un-time\" or \"non-days\"; childbirth during these days was considered unlucky. The Cherokee new year, the \"great new moon\" or \"Hunting Moon\", is the first new moon in autumn, after the setting of the Pleiades star cluster and around the time of the Leonids meteoric shower.\n\nOne folk tradition in English is the widespread use of \"Sabbath\" as a synonym of midnight-to-midnight \"Saturday\" (literally, Saturn's day in at least a dozen languages): this is a simplification of the use of \"Sabbath\" in other religious contexts, where the two do not coincide. (Using midnight instead of sundown as delimiter dates back to the Roman Empire.) In over thirty other languages, the common name for this day in the seven-day week is a cognate of \"Sabbath\". \"Sabbatini\", originally \"Sabbadini\", often \"Sabatini\", etc., is a very frequent Italian name form (\"Sabbatos\" is the Greek form), indicating a family whose ancestor was born on Saturday, Italian \"sabato\"; \"Domenico\" indicated birth on Sunday. In vampire hunter lore, people born on Saturday were specially designated as \"sabbatianoí\" in Greek and \"sâbotnichavi\" in Bulgarian (rendered in English as \"Sabbatarians\"). It was also believed in the Balkans that someone born on a Saturday could see a vampire when it was otherwise invisible.\n\nThe annual cycle of the Earth's seasons is called the Wheel of the Year in Wicca and neopaganism. Eight sabbats (occasionally \"sabbaths\", or \"Sun sabbats\") are spaced at approximately even intervals throughout the year. Samhain, which coincides with Halloween, is considered the first sabbat of the year.\n\nAn esbat is a ritual observance of the full moon in Wicca and neopaganism. Some groups extend the esbat to include the dark moon and the first and last quarters. \"Esbat\" and \"sabbat\" are distinct and are probably not cognate terms, although an esbat is also called \"moon sabbat\".\n\nEuropean records from the Middle Ages to the 17th century or later also place Witches' Sabbaths on similar dates to sabbats in modern Wicca, but with some disagreement; medieval reports of sabbat activity are generally not firsthand and may be imaginative, but many persons were accused of, or tried for, taking part in sabbats.\n\nThe Unification Church has a regular day of worship on Sunday, but every eight days Unificationists celebrate the day of Ahn Shi Il, considered as Sabbath but cycling among the weekdays of the Gregorian calendar. The Family Pledge, formerly recited at 5:00 a.m. on Sundays, was moved to Ahn Shi Il in 1994 and includes eight verses containing the phrase \"by centering on true love\".\n\nSecular use of \"Sabbath\" for \"rest day\", while it usually refers to the same period of time (Sunday) as the majority Christian use of \"Sabbath\", is often stated in North America to refer to different purposes for the rest day than those of Christendom. In \"McGowan v. Maryland\" (1961), the Supreme Court of the United States held that contemporary Maryland blue laws (typically, Sunday rest laws) were intended to promote the secular values of \"health, safety, recreation, and general well-being\" through a common day of rest, and that this day coinciding with majority Christian Sabbath neither reduces its effectiveness for secular purposes nor prevents adherents of other religions from observing their own holy days. Massachusetts, uncharacteristically, does not specify the weekday in its \"Day of Rest\" statute, providing only that one day off from work is required every week; an unspecified weekly day off is a very widespread business production cycle. The Supreme Court of Canada, in \"R. v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd.\" (1985) and \"R. v. Edwards Books and Art Ltd.\" (1986), found some blue laws invalid for having no legitimate secular purpose, but others valid because they had no religious purpose.\n\nThe weekend is that period of the week set aside by custom or law for rest from labor. In many countries it is Saturday and Sunday and often includes Friday night. This five-day workweek arose in America when labor unions attempted to accommodate Jewish Sabbath, beginning at a New England cotton mill and also instituted by Henry Ford in 1926; it became standard in America by about 1940 and spread among English-speaking and European countries to become the international workweek. China adopted it in 1995 and Hong Kong by 2006. India and some other countries follow both the international workweek and a more traditional Saturday half-workday and Sunday weekend. While Indonesia and Lebanon have the international workweek, most Muslim countries count Friday as the weekend, alone or with Thursday (all or half) or Saturday. Some universities permit a three-day weekend from Friday to Sunday. The weekend in Israel, Nepal, and parts of Malaysia, is Friday (all or half) and Saturday. Only the one-day customary or legal weekends are usually called \"Sabbath\".\n\nState-mandated rest days are widespread. Laws of the Han Dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE) required imperial officials to rest on every \"mu\" (every fifth day), within a ten-day Chinese week. The rest day was changed to \"huan\" or \"xún\" (every tenth day) in the Tang Dynasty (618–907).\n\nThe reform calendar of the French Revolution was used from 1793 to 1805. It contained twelve months of three ten-day weeks; the five or six extra days needed to approximate the tropical year were placed after the months at the end of each year. The tenth day of each week, \"décadi\", replaced Sunday as the day of rest and festivity in France.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1931, the Soviet Union mandated a five-day week, with each day designated by color as a state rest day for a different 20% of the workforce; families usually did not share rest days. Three weeks a year were six or seven days, because interrupted by holidays. From 1931 to 1940, the Soviets mandated a six-day week, with state rest days for all upon the 6th, 12th, 18th, 24th, and 30th of each Gregorian month, as well as upon March 1. This also necessitated varying weeks of five to seven days over the year.\n\nAmong many calendar reform proposals that eliminate the constant seven-day week in exchange for simplified calculation of calendrical data like weekday names for given dates, some retain Sabbatical influences. The Hermetic Lunar Week Calendar uses moon phases, resulting in weeks of six to nine days. The International Fixed Calendar and World Calendar both consist of 364-day years containing exactly 52 weeks (each starting on a day designated as Sunday), with an additional one or two intercalary \"blank\" days not designated as part of any week (Year Day and Leap Day in the International Fixed Calendar; Worldsday and Leapyear Day in the World Calendar). Reform supporters sought to accommodate Sabbatical observance by retaining the modified week and designating the intercalary days as additional Sabbaths or holidays; however, religious leaders held that such days disrupt the traditional seven-day weekly cycle. This unresolved issue contributed to the cessation of reform activities in the 1930s (International Fixed Calendar) and again in 1955 (World Calendar), though supporters of both proposals remain.\n\nThe subbotnik is a weekly day of volunteer work on Saturday in Russia, other (former) Soviet republics, the Eastern Bloc, and the German Democratic Republic, sporadically observed since 1919. The \"voskresnik\" is a related volunteer workday on Sunday. They focus on community service work; \"Lenin's Subbotnik\" was also observed annually around his birthday.\n\nFrom the biblical sabbatical year came the modern concept of a 'sabbatical', a prolonged, often one-year, hiatus in the career of an individual (not usually tied to a seven-year period). Such a period is often taken in order to fulfill some goal such as writing a book or traveling extensively for research. Some universities and other institutional employers of scientists, physicians, or academics offer paid sabbatical as an employee benefit, called \"sabbatical leave\"; some companies offer unpaid sabbatical for people wanting to take career breaks.\n\n"}
{"id": "22624169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22624169", "title": "Saint Swithun in popular culture", "text": "Saint Swithun in popular culture\n\nSaint Swithun has appeared many times in popular culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6285387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6285387", "title": "Sin of omission", "text": "Sin of omission\n\nIn Catholic teaching, an omission is a failure to do something one can and ought to do. If an omission happens deliberately and freely, it is considered a sin.\n\nThe degree of guilt incurred by an omission is measured, like that attaching to sins of commission, by the dignity of the virtue and the magnitude of the precept to which the omission is opposed, as well as the amount of deliberation.\n\nA person may be guilty of a sin of omission if he fails to do something which he is able to do and which he ought to do because he has put himself into a state or situation whereby he is unable to complete the action. For example, if a person chooses to become inebriated and is therefore unable to perform a necessary task, that person is responsible for that failure, even though that person is physically unable to perform the task because he or she knowingly put themselves into a state (drunkenness) where accomplishing the task was impossible.\n\nPaul the Apostle refers to this sin directly when he states \"For I do not do the good I want ...\" (Romans ).\nJames the brother of Jesus more exactly defines this sin when he states, \"Whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.\" (James )\n\n\"In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.\" —Martin Luther King\n\nIn \"The West Wing\" TV series, season 3, episode 3 \"Manchester: Part 2\", Toby talks about President concealing his multiple sclerosis from the staff: \"He didn't lie. It's what your people call a \"sin of omission.\"\n\nIn \"Burn Notice\", Season 2, Episode 15 \"Sins of Omission\", Michael's ex-fiancee shows up needing help. In an argument about why he never talked about his almost-wife, Fiona dismisses Michael's answer with \"sins of omission, Michael!\"\n\nIn \"Dexter\", Season 6, Episode 8, \"Sin of Omission\", Dexter shows Travis Marshall the part of Bible about the sin of omission to convince Marshall to tell him where Professor Gellar (the doomsday killer) is.\n\n"}
{"id": "11986362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11986362", "title": "State Administration for Religious Affairs", "text": "State Administration for Religious Affairs\n\nThe State Administration for Religious Affairs (SARA) was a functioning department under the State Council which oversaw religious affairs for the People's Republic of China. Originally created in 1951 as the Religious Affairs Bureau, SARA was closely connected with the United Front Work Department and charged with overseeing the operations of China's five officially sanctioned religious organizations: \nSARA was dissolved in 2018, placing all religious affairs directly under the United Front Work Department.\n\nThe State Administration for Religious Affairs was established to exercise control over religious appointments, the selection of clergy, and the interpretation of religious doctrine. SARA was also meant to ensure that the registered religious organizations support and carry out the policy priorities of the Communist Party of China.\n\nYe Xiaowen directed the SARA from 1995 to 2009. During his tenure, he issued the State Religious Affairs Bureau Order No. 5, which furthered state control over reincarnations in Tibetan Buddhism, and attempted to suppress underground Catholics loyal to Rome (which he considered \"colonial\") and not to the government-sanctioned Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. After Ye was promoted to the Secretary of the CPC Committee at the Central Institute of Socialism, the former Deputy Director was promoted to Director. Under the Xi Jinping administration, it was announced in 2018 that SARA was being dissolved and its functions would be collapsed into the United Front Work Department.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30136654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30136654", "title": "Tarikhaneh Temple", "text": "Tarikhaneh Temple\n\nThe Tarikhaneh Temple (), also called the Tarikhaneh Mosque (), is a Sassanid-era monument located on the southern limit of the present day city of Damghan, Iran. This structure was initially used as a Zoroastrian Fire Temple during the Sassanid period, however, after the fall of the Sassanid Empire it was converted into a mosque in the 8th century. The monument is, thus, known as the oldest mosque in Iran.\n\n\"Tari\" is the Turkic term for God, and \"Khaneh\" is a Persian word meaning house. Therefore, the compound word \"Tarikhaneh\", translates into \"the house of God\".\n\nThe main plan consists of a square courtyard which is surrounded by arcades of barrel vaults supported by slightly pointed fired brick arches set on rather stumpy circular pillars, typical of the Sassanid architecture. The pillars are 3.5 meters tall and almost 2 meters in diameter.\n\nStanding together at a distance from the mosque are the remains of a square column of uncertain date, possibly part of the original construction period, and a cylindrical minaret from the Seljuk period. The latter was built in 1026-1029 to replace an older 9th century minaret, and is strikingly divided into six zones of ornamentation, each rendered in brick with a different geometric pattern. The minaret is 4.2 meters in diameter; its top has fallen, but originally it must have measured more the 30 meters high, with a gallery supported on muqarnas corbels.\n\n"}
{"id": "23813421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23813421", "title": "Teva Learning Center", "text": "Teva Learning Center\n\nThe Teva Learning Alliance (formerly Teva Learning Center) is a Jewish-based environmental education 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that teaches about Judaism and the environment at Jewish day schools, summer camps and Hebrew schools. It is the only full-time year-round program dedicated to innovative, experiential Jewish education taught through the lens of the natural world.\n\nThe Teva Learning Center was developed in 1994 by the Isabella Freedman Jewish Retreat Center and Surprise Lake Camp. Isabella Freedman has been Teva’s fall home since its founding in 1994.\nThe Teva Learning Center's educational approach, \nseeks to create awareness among Jews about their connection with and dependence upon the natural systems that support life. The Center seeks “to renew the ecological wisdom inherent in Judaism” by “immersing participants in the natural world.”\nThe director is Nili Simhai, who won the 2009 Covenant Foundation award for Excellence in Jewish Education \"for making significant marks in their communities, and for designing and using innovative educational approaches to achieve dramatic and lasting impact.\" In 2014, Teva and its base, the Isabella Freedman Jewish Retreat Center, merged with the Jewish environmental organization Hazon.\n\nThe Teva Learning Center is a Jewish education group which engages in environmental education and activism through the context of Judaism. Teva's education centers on the preservation of the environment through the eyes of Judaism.\nTeva frequently, though not exclusively, caters to the educational needs of children in Jewish day schools and provides a hands on approach to environmental education. Teva also teaches synagogues, camps and youth groups.\n\nTeva provides workshops on the environment and outdoor experiences along the East Coast at 45 different schools. They work with about 4,000 students annually.\n\nPart of this is teaching students that they are \"Shomrei Adamah\" (\"Keepers of the Earth\"): Shomrei Adamah (“Keepers of the Earth”), is for fifth- and sixth-grade day-school students who visit a retreat center for four days and make a “brit adamah,” or covenant with the earth, to engage in environmental activity. The Center also runs a program for junior-high students, Achdoot (“Togetherness”), in which the teens camp in the wilderness, usually a state campground\n\nIn June 2009, students from the Solomon Schechter Day School of Raritan Valley in New Jersey were presented with the \"Kids for Clean Communities Award\" for the recycling program they developed at their school after attending the Teva program.\n\nTeva recently purchased a bus previously owned by Ben & Jerry's founder Ben Cohen (businessman) for use in environmental classes. The bus was incorporated into environmental awareness programs related to \"Birkat Hachamah\" or \"Blessing of the Sun\". However, Orthodox Talmudic scholar Rabbi J. David Bleich of Yeshiva University, a specialist in Birkat Hachamah has been critical of the interpretation of Judaism as a notably environmental faith. He argues that environmental problems are \"issues in and of themselves and are totally unrelated to the blessing of the sun,\" as the blessing is an occasion to acknowledge the wonder of God's creations, not a political statement. \"I suppose you can connect anything,\" he says. \"You can draw dots and lines; you don't have to be logical.\".\n\nTeva offers a three month fellowship in environmental farming and Jewish values.\n\nAn annual four-day program designed to train over 100 participants to develop programs in their \"home\" institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4048979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4048979", "title": "Theosophical Society of New York", "text": "Theosophical Society of New York\n\nThe Theosophical Society of New York was a theosophical organization, that separated in 1899 from the Theosophical Society in America. It is not to be confused with \"The New York Theosophical Society\" founded in 1875, which is today a lodge of the American section of the Theosophical Society Adyar.\n\nIn 1895 the Theosophical Society was divided into the TG Adyar (with Henry Steel Olcott) and the TG in America (with William Quan Judge). After Judge's death, Tingley was elected in a controversial election as president of the TG in America. The Theosophical Society of New York separated itself from the TG in America as a result of these controversies.\n\nThe TS of New York was founded by \"J.H. Salisbury\" und \"Donald Nicholson\", both friends of W.Q. Judge.\n\nThe organization published the journal \"The Word\", editor of the journal was \"Harold W. Percival\" (1868–1953).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209464", "title": "Working Class Hero", "text": "Working Class Hero\n\n\"Working Class Hero\" is a song by John Lennon from his 1970 album \"John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band\", his first album after the break-up of the rock band the Beatles.\n\nA political song, the song is a commentary/criticism on the difference between social classes. It tells the story of someone growing up in the working class. According to Lennon in an interview with Jann Wenner of \"Rolling Stone\" in December 1970, it is about working class individuals being processed into the middle classes, into the machine. John also said, \"I think it's a revolutionary song – it's really just revolutionary. I just think its concept is revolutionary. I hope it's for workers and not for tarts and fags. I hope it's about what Give Peace A Chance was about. But I don't know – on the other hand, it might just be ignored. I think it's for the people like me who are working class, who are supposed to be processed into the middle classes, or into the machinery. It's my experience, and I hope it's just a warning to people, Working Class Hero.\" \n\nThe refrain of the song is \"A working class hero is something to be\".\n\nThe song is not Lennon's first political song. His string of political songs began in 1968 with the Beatles' \"Revolution\" and further continued in 1972 with the release of \"Some Time in New York City\".\n\nRecorded at EMI Studios on 27 September 1970, the song features only Lennon, singing and playing an acoustic guitar as his backing. The chord progression is very simple, and builds on A-minor and G-major, with a short detour to D-major in one line of the chorus. Lennon's strumming technique includes a riff with a hammer-on pick of the E note on the D string and then an open A string. The tone and style of the song is similar to that of \"Masters of War\" and \"North Country Blues\" by Bob Dylan, a known influence of Lennon. Both are based on Jean Ritchie's arrangement of the traditional English folk song, \"Nottamun Town\". Lennon recorded \"Working Class Hero\" over a hundred times until he was satisfied with the recording. The recording is the composite of two different takes: the sound of the guitar and vocal changes at 1:24 prior to the verse \"When they've tortured and scared you.\"\n\n\nIn 1973, US Representative Harley Orrin Staggers heard the song – which includes the lines \"'Til you're so fucking crazy you can't follow their rules\" and \"But you're still fucking peasants as far as I can see\" – on WGTB and lodged a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The manager of the station, Ken Sleeman, faced a year in prison and a $10,000 fine, but defended his decision to play the song saying, \"The People of Washington DC are sophisticated enough to accept the occasional four-letter word in context, and not become sexually aroused, offended, or upset.\" The charges were dropped. Other US radio stations, like Boston's WBCN, banned the song for its use of the word \"fucking\". In Australia, the album was released with the expletive removed from the song and the lyrics censored on the inner sleeve.\n\n"}
