{"id": "901075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901075", "title": "Alphabet of Sirach", "text": "Alphabet of Sirach\n\nThe Alphabet of ben Sirach (\"Alphabetum Siracidis\", \"Othijoth ben Sira\") is an anonymous medieval text inspired by the Wisdom of Sirach. It is dated to anywhere between 700 and 1000 CE. It is a compilation of two lists of proverbs, 22 in Aramaic and 22 in Hebrew, both arranged as alphabetic acrostics. Each proverb is followed by an Haggadic commentary. The work has been characterized as satirical, and it contains references to masturbation, incest and flatulence. The text has been translated into Latin, Yiddish, Judeo-Spanish, French and German. A partial English translation appeared in Stern and Mirsky (1998).\n\nThe Aramaic proverbs are the far older part of the book. Five of them can be traced to Talmudic-Midrashic literature. The Hebrew commentary, illustrating the proverbs with fables, is much younger.\n\nin the reading of Ginzberg:\n\nThe 22 Hebrew proverbs are quite different in character from the Aramaic ones, and much more recent. Half of the proverbs are borrowed from the Talmud, and are only a pretext for the presentation of a number of legends surrounding Ben Sira. Ben Sira is presented as the son of Jeremiah. Ben Sira's fame reached Nebuchadnezzar, who called him to his court. Nebuchadnezzar sets forth various ordeals for Ben Sira, who responds with 22 stories. Some of the fables of the collection are indebted to Christian legend, and to the Indian Panchatantra.\n\nThe text is best known because of its reference to Lilith, and it is the fifth of Ben Sira's responses to King Nebuchadnezzar. It is reproduced here in its entirety: \n\nSome Jewish feminists have written arguments urging for Lilith's depiction in \"The Alphabet of Ben Sira\" to be reevaluated, based on the fact that this text was originally written primarily as a work of satire. Although the negativity surrounding Lilith's character as a demoness (i.e. terrorising pregnant women, fornicating with demons, murdering infants, etc.) was taken with a varying degree of superstition within Judaism, it should not go unrecognized that much of the work was probably intended satirically. Some other scholars argue that the satirical tone of the composition makes it even more difficult to assess the value of Lilith. The ruthlessly parodic tone of the \"Alphabet\" suggests that the blade of criticism is actually directed against Adam, who turns out to be weak and ineffective in his relations with his wife. Apparently, the first man is not the only male figure who is mocked: Even the Holy One cannot subjugate Lilith and needs to ask his messengers, who only manage to go as far as negotiating the conditions of the agreement. Lilith is approached in her own dwelling by the divine emissaries, themselves a miserable reflection of the four majestic angels of the Enochian tradition. Thus, even if the \"Alphabet\" should not be treated as a manifesto of female empowerment, Lilith is presented therein as the strongest and most influential character from among her literary companions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52786180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52786180", "title": "Amamikyu", "text": "Amamikyu\n\n, or , is the creation goddess of the Ryukyu Islands in the Ryukyuan religion.\n\nAmamikyu's name comes from the reading of the Chinese characters 阿摩美久 or 阿摩彌姑, which were most likely written ad-hoc for the Okinawan pronunciation. Readings can vary widely from Amamikyu, Amamikyo, Amamikiyo, Amamiko, Amamiku, Amamigu, Amamichuu, and Amanchuu. \"Amamikyu\" was used by George H. Kerr in his \"Ryukyu: Kingdom and Province Before 1945\" in 1953.\n\nThe beginning of \"Chūzan Seikan\" details the creation of the Ryukyu Islands. The Heavenly Emperor (天帝), who lived in the Heavenly Gusuku (天城), looked down on the world and saw that there were no islands, so he ordered Amamikyu (阿摩美久) to create the Ryukyu Islands. She asked for materials to build the islands, so the Heavenly Emperor sent Shinerikyu to bring her grasses, trees, and stones. She descended to Earth on Kudaka Island, and then made landfall on Okinawa Island on the spot of Sefa-utaki, and later built Tamagusuku Castle and Chinen Castle and a number of communities. She asked the Heavenly Emperor for materials to make people, but the other gods would not go down to Earth. Without sexual intercourse, she became pregnant by Shinerikyu (志仁禮久) and populated the islands. Some generations later, a \"heavenly grandchild\" named Tentei was born, who split Ryukyuan society into five classes with his three sons and two daughters: the first son was Tenson, who became the first King of Ryukyu; the second son became the first feudal lord (Aji); the third son became the first farmer; the first daughter became the first royal noro priestess; and the second daughter became the first village noro priestess. Her final home was located at Minton Castle in Tamagusuku, Okinawa.\n\nAmamikyu's tomb is located on Hamahiga Island in Uruma, Okinawa. Sefa-utaki is the holiest utaki site in the Ryukyuan religion. During the Ryukyu Kingdom era, the king and kikoe-ōgimi made an annual pilgrimage to the site from Shuri Castle to worship Amamikyu, facing Kudaka Island.\n"}
{"id": "5993647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5993647", "title": "Andrew Garfield", "text": "Andrew Garfield\n\nAndrew Russell Garfield (born August 20, 1983) is a British-American actor. He is the recipient of several accolades, including a Tony Award, and has been nominated for an Academy Award and two competitive British Academy Film Awards.\n\nBorn in Los Angeles and raised in Epsom, Surrey, Garfield began his career on the UK stage and in television productions. He made his feature-film debut in the 2007 ensemble drama \"Lions for Lambs\". Also that year, his performance in the television film \"Boy A\" earned him a British Academy Television Award for Best Actor. He came to international attention in 2010 with supporting roles in the drama \"The Social Network\", for which he received Golden Globe and BAFTA nominations for his portrayal of Eduardo Saverin, and the science fiction romance \"Never Let Me Go\". Garfield subsequently gained wider recognition for playing the titular superhero in the 2012 superhero film \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and its 2014 sequel. In 2016, Garfield starred in two critically acclaimed historical dramas, \"Hacksaw Ridge\" and \"Silence\". His portrayal of Desmond T. Doss in the former earned him nominations for the Academy Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actor.\n\nOn stage, Garfield has played Biff in a 2012 Broadway revival of Arthur Miller's play \"Death of a Salesman\", which earned him a Tony Award nomination for Best Featured Actor in a Play. In 2017, he starred as Prior Walter in a production of \"Angels in America\" at the Royal National Theatre in London, a role for which he was nominated for an Olivier Award for Best Actor. He reprised the role on Broadway in 2018, for which he received the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play.\n\nGarfield was born in Los Angeles, California. His mother, Lynn (née Hillman), is from Essex, England, and his father, Richard Garfield, is from California. Garfield's paternal grandparents were also from the United Kingdom. Garfield's parents moved the family from Los Angeles to the UK when he was three years old and was brought up in Epsom, Surrey. Garfield's father is Jewish; Garfield had a secular upbringing, and has referred to himself as an \"agnostic pantheist\", though he also identifies as Jewish. His paternal grandparents were from Jewish immigrant families who moved to London from Eastern Europe (Poland, Russia and Romania), and the family surname was originally \"Garfinkel\".\n\nGarfield's parents ran a small interior design business; his mother is a teaching assistant at a nursery school, and his father became head coach of the Guildford Swimming Club. He has an older brother who is a doctor. Garfield was a gymnast and a swimmer during his early years, and was also an avid philatelist. He had originally intended to study business but became interested in acting at the age of sixteen when a friend convinced him to take Theatre Studies at A-level as they were one pupil short of being able to run the class. Garfield attended Priory Preparatory School in Banstead and later City of London Freemen's School in Ashtead, before training at the Central School of Speech and Drama, University of London.\n\nGarfield began taking acting classes in Guildford, Surrey, when he was 9, and appeared in a youth theatre production of \"Bugsy Malone\". He also joined a small youth theatre workshop group in Epsom and took Theatre Studies at A-level before studying for a further 3 years at a UK conservatoire, the Central School of Speech and Drama. Upon graduating in 2004 he began working primarily in stage acting. In 2004 he won a Manchester Evening News Theatre Award for Best Newcomer for his performance in \"Kes\" at Manchester's Royal Exchange Theatre (where he also played Romeo the year after), and won the Outstanding Newcomer Award at the 2006 Evening Standard Theatre Awards. Garfield made his British television debut in 2005 appearing in the Channel 4 teen drama \"Sugar Rush\". In 2007 he garnered public attention when he appeared in the series 3 of the BBC's \"Doctor Who\", in the episodes \"Daleks in Manhattan\" and \"Evolution of the Daleks\". Garfield commented that it was \"an honour\" to be a part of \"Doctor Who\". In October 2007, he was named one of \"Variety\"s \"10 Actors to Watch\". He made his American film debut in November 2007, playing an American university student in the ensemble drama \"Lions for Lambs\", with co-stars Tom Cruise, Meryl Streep and Robert Redford. \"I'm just lucky to be there working on the same project as them, although I don't really expect to be recognised later by audiences,\" Garfield told \"Variety\" in 2007. In his review for \"The Boston Globe\", Wesley Morris considered Garfield's work \"a willing punching bag for the movie's jabs and low blows\".\n\nIn the Channel 4 drama \"Boy A\", released in November 2007, he portrayed a notorious killer trying to find new life after prison. The role garnered him the 2008 British Academy Television Award for Best Actor. Amy Biancolli of the \"Houston Chronicle\" wrote that \"there is no doubt about the intelligence and sensitivity\" of Garfield's portrayal. Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" Christy DeSmith echoed Biancolli's sentiment, citing his \"detailed expressions\" as an example. Writing in \"The Seattle Times\", John Hartl noted that Garfield demonstrated range in the role, and concluded: \"Garfield always manages to capture his passion\". Joe Morgenstern, the critic for \"The Wall Street Journal\", dubbed Garfield's performance \"phenomenal\", assessing that he \"makes room for the many and various pieces of Jack's personality\". In 2008, he had a minor role in the film \"The Other Boleyn Girl\", and was named one of the shooting stars at the Berlin International Film Festival. In 2009, Garfield held supporting roles in the Terry Gilliam film \"The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus\" and the \"Red Riding\" television trilogy. Kenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" thought that Garfield gave a stand out performance in the latter.\nIn 2010, Garfield co-starred opposite Carey Mulligan and Keira Knightley in Mark Romanek's dystopian science fiction drama \"Never Let Me Go\", an adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's 2005 novel of the same name. He said of his character, Tommy D., \"There's a sense of anxiety that runs through these kids, especially Tommy, because he's so sensory and feeling and animalistic, that's my perspective of him.\" Garfield was attracted to the film based on the existential questions the story expresses. He said the experience of being a part of \"Never Let Me Go\" was \"just a dream to come true\". He further remarked that the scenes in which his character—unable to contain his frustration—erupts with a wail, were \"intense\" for him. \"I think those screams are inside all of us, I just got a chance to let mine out\". For his portrayal of a well-meaning, but dim young man caught in a love triangle, he won the 2010 Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor. Writing for \"Entertainment Weekly\", Owen Gleiberman praised the performances of the lead cast, reflecting that \"these three all act with a spooky, haunted innocence that gets under your skin.\" In comparison to Mulligan and Knightley, Scott Bowles, writing for \"USA Today\", deemed Garfield \"the real find\" of \"Never Let Me Go\".\n\nThe same year, Garfield co-starred opposite Jesse Eisenberg in \"The Social Network\", a drama based on the founders of Facebook. On his character, Garfield remarked that \"No one knows who Eduardo Saverin is, and I don't either. Of course, the fact he's a real-life human being, breathing on this Earth somewhere, creates a whole new dimension to my approach because you feel a greater sense of responsibility\". Initially, the film's director, David Fincher, had met Garfield under the auspices of him playing Mark Zuckerberg, having been referred to him by Mark Romanek. However, Fincher did not like Garfield for the part as he found Garfield's \"incredible emotional access to his kind of core humanity\" better tailored for the role of Saverin. Garfield's performance was very well received; he earned wider recognition and numerous nominations, including BAFTA nominations for Best Actor in a Supporting Role and Rising Star, as well as a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance in a Supporting Role. Mark Kermode of the BBC expressed his surprise that Garfield had been overlooked for an Academy Award nomination, opining that \"everyone knows he's one of the very best things about \"The Social Network\".\" Writing in \"The Wall Street Journal\", Joe Morgenstern thought the role was portrayed with \"great subtlety and rueful charm\". \"Rolling Stone\" said Garfield delivered \"a vulnerability that raises the emotional stakes in a movie\", and proclaimed: \"Keep your eyes on Garfield — he's shatteringly good, the soul of a film that might otherwise be without one.\"\n\nGarfield was cast as Spider-Man/Peter Parker, opposite Emma Stone as his love interest Gwen Stacy, in Marc Webb's \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" (2012), a reboot of the \"Spider-Man\" film series. Garfield saw his casting as a \"massive challenge in many ways\", having to make the character \"authentic\" and \"live and breathe in a new way\". He described Peter as someone he could relate to and stated that the character had been an important influence on him since he was a child. For the role, he studied movements of athletes and spiders, and tried to incorporate them, and practices yoga and pilates. \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" earned a worldwide total of $752,216,557, and Garfield's performance was generally well-received. \"The Guardian\" Peter Bradshaw labelled his portrayal as the \"definitive Spider-Man\" and Tom Charity of CNN commended his \"combination of fresh-faced innocence, nervous agitation and wry humor\".\n\nIn March 2012, Garfield made his Broadway theatre debut as Biff Loman in the revival of \"Death of a Salesman\". According to \"The New York Times\" David Rooney, Garfield had successfully \"exposed the raw ache of Biff's solitude\". Garfield was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play for his performance. Two years later, Garfield hosted an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" and appeared in a music video for the song \"We Exist\" by Arcade Fire, playing a trans woman. Also in 2014, he co-produced and starred in the 2014 independent drama \"99 Homes\" and reprised the titular role in \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\". Following a deal between Sony and Marvel Studios to integrate the Spider-Man character into the Marvel Cinematic Universe, sequels to the latter film were scrapped, and the role was later taken on by Tom Holland in a reboot. Arachnologists Yuri M. Marusik and Alireza Zamani honored Garfield's portrayal of the role by naming a new species of crevice weaver spider, \"Pritha garfieldi\", after him.\n\nFollowing a year-long absence from the screen, Garfield had starring roles in two films of 2016, Martin Scorsese's drama \"Silence\" and Mel Gibson's war film \"Hacksaw Ridge\". In the former, based on Shūsaku Endō's 1966 novel of the same name, Garfield played Sebastião Rodrigues, a Portuguese Jesuit priest in the seventeenth century who travels to Japan to spread his faith. Garfield spent a year with James Martin studying to be a Jesuit priest and went on a silent retreat in Wales. The film's arduous principal photography took place in Taiwan and to achieve his character's physicality, Garfield lost 40 pounds. Kate Taylor of \"The Globe and Mail\" disliked the film and wrote that Garfield \"is sweetly resolute and gently anguished as the missionary Rodrigues but any hope that the actor might elucidate the psychology of philosophical certitude or the pain of religious doubt proves vain\". At the box office, it earned less than half of its $50 million budget. \"Hacksaw Ridge\", however, was a commercial success, earning over $175.3 million worldwide. In it, Garfield portrayed Desmond Doss, a combat medic during World War II, who was the first conscientious objector in American history to be awarded the Medal of Honor. Writing for \"USA Today\", Brian Truitt labelled the film as \"brutally intense and elegantly crafted\"; he thought that the central role allowed Garfield to bring depth to his career and praised him for portraying Doss with both \"simple sweetness\" and \"steadfast mettle\". He received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor for \"Hacksaw Ridge\".\n\nGarfield played the role of Prior Walter in Tony Kushner's two-part play \"\" at the National Theatre, London in the Lyttelton Theatre from April to August 2017, and the performance was broadcast live to cinemas around the world in summer 2017 through the National Theatre Live series. It was directed by Marianne Elliott and co-starred Nathan Lane, James McArdle, Russell Tovey and Denise Gough. Paul T Davis of The British Theatre Guide wrote that Garfield is \"transformative and unrecognisable in places, completely inhabiting camp, laconic, frightened and totally loveable Prior Walter\". He was nominated for an Olivier Award for Best Actor.\n\nGarfield's sole film release of 2017 was the biopic \"Breathe\", in which he portrayed Robin Cavendish, a young man paralysed by polio. In preparation, he interacted with victims of the disease and collaborated closely with Cavendish's wife and son. Stephen Dalton of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote that despite an exceptional story, the film had glossed over the complexities in Cavendish's life, and thought that Garfield was \"hampered by a role that restricts him to little more than nodding and grinning\". In March 2018, Garfield reprised the role of Prior when the \"Angels in America\" production transferred to Broadway for an 18-week limited engagement at the Neil Simon Theatre, alongside a majority of the London cast. Reviewing the production for \"The Washington Post\", Peter Marks commented that \"nothing [Garfield's] done prepares you for the star-powered dexterity of his Prior\" and considered his performance to be the \"persuasive moral core of the piece\". He won the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his performance.\n\nThe 2018 Cannes Film Festival marked the premiere of Garfield's next film, the David Robert Mitchell-directed neo-noir \"Under the Silver Lake\". In it, he played Sam, an unemployed and wayward young man who sets out on a journey to find his neighbour who has mysteriously disappeared. Writing for \"Vanity Fair\", Richard Lawson found Garfield to be \"great in the role, doing nimble, subtle bits of physical comedy and teasing out the creepy, menacing side of Sam\".\nIn October 2018, it was reported that Garfield had been cast in Gia Coppola's \"Mainstream\", alongside Maya Hawke and Jason Schwartzman.\n\nGarfield has dual citizenship in the United States and the United Kingdom. In 2009, he told the \"Sunday Herald\" that he \"feels equally at home\" in both the United States and the United Kingdom and \"enjoys having a varied cultural existence\". Garfield customarily gives interviews about his work, but does not publicly discuss details of his private life.\n\nIn 2011, Garfield began dating his \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" co-star Emma Stone sometime during production of the film. In 2015, they were rumored to have broken up although no formal statement was released. When asked about his sexuality, Garfield identified himself as heterosexual but has said that he has \"an openness to any impulses that may arise within me at any time\".\n\nIn 2011, Garfield became the Ambassador of Sport for the Worldwide Orphans Foundation (WWO).\n\n"}
{"id": "7872044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872044", "title": "Antonio Bacci", "text": "Antonio Bacci\n\nAntonio Bacci (4 September 1885 – 20 January 1971) was an Italian Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Secretary of Briefs to Princes from 1931 to 1960, when he was elevated to the cardinalate by Pope John XXIII. He is perhaps best known for his role in the Ottaviani Intervention.\n\nBacci was born in Giugnola, near Florence, and ordained to the priesthood on 9 August 1909. From 1910 to 1922, he served as professor and spiritual director of the seminary in Florence. Bacci then entered the Vatican Secretariat of State in 1922 as an expert in Latin. He was raised to the rank of Honorary Chamberlain of His Holiness on 15 March 1923, and appointed Secretary of Briefs to Princes in 1931. During his 31-year-long tenure as Secretary, he prepared the Latin text of important Vatican documents during the reigns of Pius XI, Pius XII, and John XXIII. Prior to the 1958 papal conclave, he called for \"a saintly Pope\" who could \"be a bridge between heaven and the earth...between the social classes...[and] a bridge among nations, even those who reject and persecute Christian religion.\"\n\nJohn XXIII created him Cardinal-Deacon of \"Sant'Eugenio\" in the consistory of 28 March 1960. Cardinal Bacci was later named titular archbishop of \"Colonia in Cappadocia\" on 5 April 1962, and received his episcopal consecration on the following 19 April from John XXIII, with Cardinals Giuseppe Pizzardo and Benedetto Aloisi Masella serving as co-consecrators. He attended the Second Vatican Council from 1962 to 1965, and participated in the 1963 papal conclave that elected Pope Paul VI.\n\nOne of the Vatican's leading Latin experts, Bacci strongly opposed the introduction of the vernacular into the Mass. In what was known as the Ottaviani Intervention, the then 84-year-old Bacci, together with 79-year-old Alfredo Ottaviani, sent to Pope Paul VI, with a short covering letter from themselves, a study by a group of theologians under the direction of Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre criticizing the draft Order of Mass of the revision of the Roman Missal. In their letter the two cardinals said that the study showed that the new Order of Mass \"represents, both as a whole and in its details, a striking departure from the Catholic theology of the Mass as it was formulated in Session 22 of the Council of Trent...to which, nonetheless, the Catholic conscience is bound forever. With the promulgation of the Novus Ordo, the loyal Catholic is thus faced with a most tragic alternative.\"\nAmong Bacci's publications was \"Lexicon Eorum Vocabulorum Quae Difficilius Latine Redduntur\", a dictionary of modern terms in Latin; he invented such words as \"gummis salivaria\" (\"chewing gum\"), \"barbara saltatio\" (\"the twist\"), and \"diurnarius scriptor\" (\"newspaper reporter\"). This was a standard reference for writers of Modern Latin, especially at the Vatican, until it was superseded by the Lexicon Recentis Latinitatis.\n\nBacci died at Vatican City, at age 85. He is buried in his native Giugnola, near Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2659941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2659941", "title": "Archbishop of Petra", "text": "Archbishop of Petra\n\nThe Archbishop of Petra was established during the Crusader era and served the diocese of Palaestrina III, the Oultrejordain area, and traditionally included Saint Catherine's Monastery on Mount Sinai, although Crusader protection rarely extended that far. \n\nThe Islamic conquest in the 7th century had eliminated Byzantine control of the area and with it the protection of the Christian communities. However, Palestinian and Syrian Christian communities had remained in the region well into the Islamic occupation period and with the arrival of the Crusader Principalities, they were placed under the supervision of the diocese with the expectation of restoring the area's Christian roots. Frankish communities soon added to their number and before Saladin's reconquest, the area had an increasing number of Catholic communities. Following the destruction of the Kingdom of Jerusalem by Saladin, what little protection for Christians had existed was eliminated and the nascent Christian communities were soon destroyed. \n\nNonetheless, several isolated monasteries at various levels of precarious existence continued, thereby creating the necessity of appointing Archbishops well into the modern period. However, by the late 19th and early 20th centuries what vestiges of monastic life and their few extant congregants which remained were effectively eliminated by Bedouin and Turkish raids and with it the diocese lapsed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51143967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51143967", "title": "Asterope (Hesperid)", "text": "Asterope (Hesperid)\n\nAsterope ( or Στεροπή, \"Asteropē\" or \"Steropē\", \"lightning\") was a Hesperid in Greek mythology.\n\nAsterope's parents, along with her sisters, were sometimes daughters of Nyx and Erebus, sometimes of Atlas, even Zeus in some cases. Other possible parents were Phorcys and Ceto, and Hesperus.\n\nLiterally, her name means \"Starry-Faced\"., a compound of ἄστηρ (\"ástēr\", \"star\") and ὄψ (\"ops\", \"face\"), but its idomatic meaning is \"lightning\". She also has another name she sometimes uses: Hesperia, which is probably linked to one of her putative parents.\n\n\"Asterope\" is a genus of butterflies of the family Nymphalidae.\n"}
{"id": "24532365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24532365", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in New Zealand", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in New Zealand\n\nWhile the first mention of events related to the history of the Bahá'í Faith in New Zealand was in 1846 continuous contact began around 1904 when one individual after another came in contact with Bahá'ís and some of them published articles in print media in New Zealand as early as 1908. The first Bahá'í in the Antipodes was Dorothea Spinney who had just arrived from New York in Auckland in 1912. Shortly thereafter there were two converts about 1913 - Robert Felkin who had met `Abdu'l-Bahá in London in 1911 and moved to New Zealand in 1912 and is considered a Bahá'í by 1914 and Margaret Stevenson who first heard of the religion in 1911 and by her own testimony was a Bahá'í in 1913. After `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote the Tablets of the Divine Plan which mentions New Zealand the community grew quickly so that the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of the country was attempted in 1923 or 1924 and then succeeded in 1926. The Bahá'ís of New Zealand elected their first independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1957. By 1963 there were four Assemblies, and 18 localities with smaller groups of Bahá'ís. The 2006 census reports about 2800 Bahá'ís in some 45 local assemblies and about 20 smaller groups of Bahá'ís though the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 7400 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe first mention of events related to the history of the religion was a report in a Wellington newspaper in July 1846. These were reprints of an 1845 article in the London \"Times\" which relied on Muslim reactions to the new religion.\n\nIn 1853 there was an event with caused great suffering on Babís ( who Bahá'ís hold as a direct precursor akin to the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus.) The Babís were blamed for an attempted assassination of the Shah of Persia. Recent scholarship has identified a fringe element distinct from all the major aspects of the religion, its community and leadership at the time. Nevertheless, coverage in newspapers at the time often echoed the Persian government's view blaming the Babís and Babís in large numbers were in fact executed as a result.\n\nFollowing this initial mention of incidents related to the religion there were several contacts between New Zealanders and Bahá'ís at the beginning of the 20th century. New Zealander Wilhelmina Sherriff Bain may have met Sarah Jane Farmer, a notable Bahá'í in the United States, (see Green Acre) in 1904. Whoever her contact was, Bain authored a large detailed article in the \"Otago Witness\" published 30 December 1908 edition about the religion. Other articles followed in 1909, 1911, and 1913. It is also known that letters were exchanged in 1910 between a Mildred Burdon of Geraldine and `Abdu’l-Bahá. Robert Felkin had met `Abdu'l-Bahá in London in 1911 and in 1912 moved to New Zealand where he helped found the Whare Ra. Felkin wrote an article for a New Zealand publication which was published around then too.\n\nMeanwhile, Auckland resident Margaret Stevenson's sister living in the United Kingdom had sent her a copy of \"The Christian Commonwealth\" which had reported on 'Abdu'l-Bahá's speech in London on 27 March 1911. In 1912 Stevenson rented a room to English Bahá'í Dorothea Spinney - a traveling performer of Greek plays - who had just arrived from New York via Auckland. Spinney's stay was probably brief as she is known to have been in New York in November 1912 and again in January 1913. Following learning from a Bahá'í first hand Stevenson decided to subscribed to Star of the West, an early major English publication of the religion, and officially accepted the religion in 1913. Though Felkin is more known for being involved with other interests, another early Bahá'í, Maurice Chambers, counts Felkin as the Bahá'í through whom he learned of the religion and converted in 1914.\n\nWhoever converted first, there was at least one Bahá'í in New Zealand in 1912 and more shortly thereafter.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets was the first to mention spreading the Bahá'í Faith in New Zealand and was written on 11 April 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 because of disruptions from World War I and the Spanish flu which strongly affected New Zealand and beyond. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on 4 April 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on 12 December 1919. Chambers is known to have exchanged letters with `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1919. Stevenson received a visit by Australian community founders John and Clara Hyde-Dunn in 1922 and again in 1923 and the New Zealand community quickly grew, including Stevenson's sisters Amy and Lilias. The community tried to form an Assembly without properly following procedure in 1923 or 1924. In 1924 Martha Root shared news that Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, had space to receive New Zealander Bahá'ís undertaking pilgrimage. 1924 was also the year of the first pioneer from New Zealand when Nora Lee moved to Fiji from 1924 to about 1930. In 1925 Stevenson left with two other New Zealand converts as well as a contingent from Australia for a year-long trip on pilgrimage where they stayed some 19 days and then visited with the community of the Bahá'í Faith in the United Kingdom. The news journal \"Herald of the South\" was begun publishing for New Zealand and Australia during their voyage out of Auckland (transferred publishing to Adelaide Australia in 1931.)\n\nAfter receiving a compilation on forming Assemblies they then returned to New Zealand in December 1925. They also returned with some dust from the Tomb of Bahá'u'lláh which was placed in New Zealand soil at Stevenson's home in a ceremony held on 14 February 1926. Later in 1926 the Bahá'ís in Auckland were able to properly elect their first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly. In 1928 there were seven assemblies between New Zealand and Australia - by 1939 the number of assemblies had reduced to 4 but the locations with Bahá'ís increased to 17 and by 1940 the count of assemblies reached 19 while there were still 17 other locations with smaller groups of Bahá'ís. In 1931 Keith Ransom-Kehler also visited. In 1934 Bahá'ís from Australia and New Zealand elected a regional National Assembly - there were three delegates from Auckland, three from Sydney and three from Adelaide. From 1934 to 1939 Stevenson served on the regional National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand and then died shortly thereafter in 1941. In 1940 the community held its first season school. In 1947 Alvin and Gertrude Blum left the United States for New Zealand where they lived until 1953 when they pioneered and became Knights of Bahá'u'lláh for the Solomon Islands.\nIn 1948 the first person of Māori descent to accept the Bahá’í Faith was Albert White, who was one quarter Māori. In 1949 the first Persian Bahá'í pioneer, Manoochehr Ala’i, arrived as a student at Massey College. In 1953 the first standing Hand of the Cause, the highest appointed position in the religion open to all, `Alí-Akbar Furútan, visited New Zealand. In 1957 the New Zealand community held its first independent convention to elect its own National Spiritual Assembly with three delegates from Auckland and two each from Devonport, New Plymouth and Wellington. This convention elected the first National Spiritual Assembly of New Zealand. In 1958 Hand of the Cause of God, Enoch Olinga visited the Ngaruawahia Marae and talked with elders and four years later, when Hand of the Cause of God, Dr Muhajir visited, Ephraim Te Paa, a Kaumatua (Māori elder) from Ahipara converted to the religion. In 1963 with the election of the Universal House of Justice the Hands of the Cause updated and published a kind of census of the religion. At that time there were four assemblies -Auckland, Devonport, Hamilton, Wellington - and 18 localities with smaller groups of Bahá'ís - see maps. The story of one convert in 1964 includes her concern for her bi-racial children and despair at the bigotry of interracial marriage among the very minorities her children were members (she being Celt and married a Māori) when she found this kind of marriage highly accepted among Bahá'ís. The members of the National Assembly, who participated in the convention for the first election of the Universal House of Justice, were: Hugh Blundell, John Carr, Margaret Harnish, Linda Hight, Percy Leadley, Phyllis Milne, Jean Simmons, Douglas Weeks, and Terry Stirling. The New Zealand Bahá'í community came to the assistance of refugees in 1979 from the persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran who were allowed to settle in New Zealand. Between 1987 and 1989, a further 142 Iranian Bahá'ís settled in New Zealand.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979, there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. In the modern Bahá'í community of New Zealand the Bahá'ís have multiplied their interests internally and externally. Aside from major themes there have also been individual work done in variety of topics - for example post-traumatic stress syndrome. Additionally the community has continued to advocate with the New Zealand government to speak up on behalf of the persecuted Bahá'ís in Iran.\n\nIn 1997 the Bahá’í community approached the Race Relations Conciliator with a project to honor the memory of Hedi Moani, an Iranian-born Bahá'í who worked to promote positive race relations. Discussions took place over many months and on 10 December 1998 (Human Rights Day), the Race Relations Office formally announced that Race Unity Day would be celebrated in New Zealand on 21 March each year. The first awards were in 2001. There are reviews of speeches in 2007, 2008, and 2009. National coverage of events with the police was affirmed in 2008. In addition to national-scale events various localities have had local competitions - an example was the observance in Whangarei and Lower Hutt in 2009. In 2012 then 13 year old Rima Shenoy submitted a video that won first place in the Race Unity Speech Awards of the New Zealand Police and the Bahá'ís.\n\nAs the Bahá'í community has grown in size and complexity it has also run into controversies and survived. In the 1980s there was a controversy about the status of women not being electable to the Universal House of Justice. In 1989 there was a controversy over the burial of a Māori Bahá'í, Pakaka Tawhai. Though the National Assembly had consulted with Tawhai's wife about burial, Pakaka's tribal family, the Ngati Porou, confronted the Bahá'ís during the tangihanga, demanding to take his body back to Ruatoria. Ultimately they failed. Then member of the Universal House of Justice Peter Khan spoke at a conference in New Zealand in 2000, noting that the Universal House of Justice had received letters \"written in distasteful language\" from New Zealand - he encouraged systematic education of children, application of a moral life, a serious study of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, and study of the writings of Shoghi Effendi.\n\nBeyond controversies, the Bahá'ís in New Zealand have broadened their interests both through individual initiatives and collective action. In 1991 an assembly was elected in the Kapiti Coast District. In 2000 two Bahá'í pioneers from New Zealand settled in Pitcairn Islands, one of the few nations on earth that had no Bahá'í presence. In 2006 Bahá'ís helped dedicate the temporary Spiritual Centre at Middlemore Hospital. In 2007 Dunedin Bahá'ís had been granted access to a community center. The Universal House of Justice called for a regional conference for the Bahá'ís from New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Fiji, Hawaii, Kiribati, New Caledonia and the Loyalty Islands, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu to be held in Auckland’s Manukau City, on the sacred grounds of their marae, in 2008 and it came to pass in February 2009. The \"Bahá'í on Air\" television show is broadcast weekly on Auckland's Triangle TV which also covers the Cook Islands, American Samoa, and Adelaide, Australia. There has also been an independent documentary by a non-Bahá'í New Zealander exploring the religion in 2007. In 2011 Bahá'ís participated in the community memorial for those who had died in the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. It was mentioned in a review of spirituality in business in 2012. The community in Tauranga invited the Bahá'ís to join their interfaith council.\n\nA 1999 report from the census bureau noted that of the citizens of New Zealand of Middle Eastern ethnicity, 4% were Bahá'í and 20% of the Bahá'ís in New Zealand are members of some ethnic minority. The 1991 and 2006 New Zealand census reports about 2800 Bahá'ís though the 1996 census listed just over 3100 Bahá'ís. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 7400 Bahá'ís in 2005. There are more than 65 local Bahá’í communities around New Zealand, the large city communities have hundreds of members and assemblies, while some rural areas having groups of just two or three Bahá'ís. About 46 are full-fledged assemblies. The religion was called a \"mainstream religion\" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.\n\nThe Bahá´í Association For the Arts and its publication \"Arts Dialogue\" has produced a lists of New Zealand Bahá'í artists, reviews of the shows and articles published dealing with New Zealand. The national assembly posted profiles of some Bahá'ís in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28152707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28152707", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in the Marshall Islands", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in the Marshall Islands\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in the Marshall Islands begins after 1916 with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, that Bahá'ís should take the religion there. The first Bahá'í to pioneer there arrived in August 1954 however she could only stay until March 1955. Nevertheless, with successive pioneers and converts the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in 1967 in Majuro. The community continued to grow and in 1977 elected its first National Spiritual Assembly. Before 1992 the Bahá'ís began to operate state schools under contract with the government. Middle estimates of the Bahá'í population are just over 1,000, or 1.50% in 2000.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, head of the religion from 1892 to 1921, mentioned the Marshall Islands among the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to. He wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets mentioned taking the Bahá'í Faith to the Marshall Islands and was written on 11 April 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on 4 April 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on 12 December 1919.\n\n(Tablet 7) \"A party speaking their languages, severed, holy, sanctified and filled with the love of God, must turn their faces to and travel through the three great island groups of the Pacific Ocean — Polynesia, Micronesia and Melanesia, and the islands attached to these groups, such as New Guinea, Borneo, Java, Sumatra, Philippine Islands, Solomon Islands, Fiji Islands, New Hebrides, Loyalty Islands, New Caledonia, Bismarck Archipelago, Ceram, Celebes, Friendly Islands, Samoa Islands, Society Islands, Caroline Islands, Low Archipelago, Marquesas, Hawaiian Islands, Gilbert Islands, Moluccas, Marshall Islands, Timor and the other islands. With hearts overflowing with the love of God, with tongues commemorating the mention of God, with eyes turned to the Kingdom of God, they must deliver the glad tidings of the manifestation of the Lord of Hosts to all the people. Know ye of a certainty that whatever gathering ye enter, the waves of the Holy Spirit are surging over it, and the heavenly grace of the Blessed Beauty encompasseth that gathering.\"\n\nMarcia Steward (later de Matamores Atwater), was a pioneer and named a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh for being the first to move to the Marshall Islands. Steward was born in Pasadena, California in 1904, and embraced the religion in 1938 and was eager to pioneer before the conclusion of the first Seven Year Plan (1937–1944) of Shoghi Effendi, who was named `Abdu'l-Bahá's successor. First she moved to Santiago de Chile. She continued to serve across Latin America for a number of years as plans proceeded for the religion. See Bahá'í Faith in Chile, Bahá'í Faith in Costa Rica. By July 1947 Atwater was appointed secretary of the Central American Teaching Committee with one of its goals to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953. While she was deciding where to serve next a cable from Shoghi Effendi arrived asking Atwater to try to get to the Marshall Islands sometime between 1 April and 2 May 1954. His cable reached Atwater on 16 April and by 20 April she was in Washington DC. Immediately after World War II the islands were administered for about 6 years by the United States Navy. When the Trusteeships under the United Nations were formed, the Marshall Islands became part of the Trusteeship of the Pacific (which included the Caroline, and Mariana Islands as well as the Marshall Islands). The United States was given the authority to administer this Trusteeship by the United Nations. The Marshall Islands were the site of , the Marshall Islands were tightly closed to any guests unconnected with government work. At the time she had a contract with a publisher and hoped to be self-sufficient after finishing her book. By 9 May she informed Horace Holley that she had permission to enter the islands and was awaiting her Navy security clearance. Atwater was able to secure a visa to travel there because of excellent connections in Washington D.C., and got her original three-month pass renewed because of the same contacts. Maintaining the appearance of wealth and ease which accompanied her family's position in the U.S., she was actually, by the time she went to the Marshalls, completely without independent income, and was deputized by the United States National Spiritual Assembly with some help from the National Spiritual Assembly of Central America. In July 1954 she left Hawaii, finally, for Japan, and then sailed from Kobe to the Marshall Islands, arriving in Majuro, capital and largest city of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, on August 7.\n\nWhile there she was invited to a reception in honor of a visiting U.S. congressman from Colorado where she recited, upon request, some of her \"poetry of Majuro,\" after which the congressman asked for copies. Marcia wrote to Virginia Breaks in the Caroline Islands that most of her good friends in the Marshalls were Catholic or Jesuit priests, remarking, \"this is probably natural, since I lived in a Latin-American Catholic environment for so many years.\" Breaks said that Atwater seemed to \"greatly enjoy\" her time on the islands, and \"she was apparently given government housing.\" Marcia hoped to stay on in the islands although she was very ill during her last two months there, but she was not given another permit. She was able to stay until March 1955. During that time she taught the religion, traveled to various atolls, fulfilled some press commitments which were subject to the District Commissioner's censor but which had, in the end, been helpful in securing her visa; and she tried to get some Bahá’í information translated into Marshallese. The nature of her illness is unknown, as is the story of all her activities there, since the report she wrote was lost and she evidently never had the strength to re-write it. After leaving the islands she suffered from a debilitating skin ailment, of which she wrote, \"A terrible affliction has me almost ready to be locked up: I am quite horrible to behold...\" She felt her skin problem was caused by radiation burns from atomic testing on the Marshalls, but this could never be proved, and she tried unsuccessfully to collect compensation from the U.S. government.\n\nThe Marshall Islands, vacated for several months when it became necessary for Atwater to leave, was replaced by another Bahá'í pioneer, Betty Klaas, from Honolulu by August 1956. By 1960 there were no pioneer Bahá'ís but by 1964 there is mention of a group of Bahá'ís there. The first Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Majuro was elected 21 April 1967. This is also the first Local Spiritual Assembly to be formed in the Trust Territory of Micronesia. Its members were Jack Peter, Elsie Heran, Ninam Reran, Brad Hollinger (pioneer), Kim Lang (pioneer), Tataka Arawatau, Betra Heran, Harlan Lang (pioneer) and Pencil Heran. In 1972 a regional spiritual assembly of the North West Pacific Ocean was based in Pohnpei covering the Caroline, Marshall and Mariana Islands.\n\nA second local assembly was elected in \"Laura\" in 1975. In 1976 the first spiritual assembly on Santo Island, in the Kwajalein Atoll, was announced January 1. All the teachers involved in the formation of this assembly were Micronesians. The activity evolved under the direction of the national teaching committee of the Marshall Islands, with the help of the Spiritual Assembly of Ebeye Island of the same atoll.\n\nFollowing international conferences on the promulgation of the religion in Hong Kong, 26–30 November 1975 and Auckland, New Zealand, 19–22 January 1976 a Marshallese conference was held later in January. In March 1977 four Bahá'í communities gathered and had a picnic to discuss the upcoming first National Convention and the importance of Local Spiritual Assembly elections. Thirty-five Bahá'ís and their children were present.\n\nHand of the Cause Collis Featherstone represented the Universal House of Justice as witness to the convention and election in April when the National Spiritual Assembly of the Marshall Islands was elected. Among the national assembly's first goals assigned by the Universal House of Justice was a goal to \"Open the remaining major islands of the Marshalls to the Faith and greatly increase the number of believers.\" By the end of 1977 two new assemblies are in Ajeltake and Arno Arno Lukej which were elected bringing the total in the Marshall Islands to nine.\n\nIn February 1979 the National Spiritual Assembly of the Marshall Islands reports \"The major islands that are uninhabited: Toka, Ailinginae, Rongdrik, Jemo, Bikini, Erkub, Bokak, Bikar.\" In the same report, Rongelap Atoll is listed as having a Bahá'í group, Ujelang Atoll is shown as an isolated Bahá'í and Enewetak Atoll as well is shown to have a group. In March the Department of Secretariat at the Bahá'í World Centre writes to the national assembly saying, \"It is noted that there are only two major inhabited islands not yet open to the Faith -- Mejit and Ailuk, and it is hoped these will soon be opened.\" By the summer of 1979 there were 15 more local assemblies, 42 localities, a temple site, endowment land, three local centers, and two revised translations of a prayer book.\n\nIn August 1983 the national assembly report states \"Atolls which have no population and therefore are not to be considered under any teaching plan are as follows: Ailingae, Bikar, Bikini, Bokaak (Taongi), Erikub, Jemo, Knox, Rongerik, and Taja.\" A note is appended by the national assembly to this same report reads: \"Note: Though one of the larger islands of the M.I. atolls, Rongelap is largely radioactive, with no population.\" A second note, in reference to Ujelang Atoll, reads: \"Note: For a time uninhabited, there is a report some people may have returned.\" A former Peace Corps member who had worked on Lae Atoll in 1969-71 as an elementary school teacher returned in 1984 as a Bahá'í and managed to introduce the religion on a few atolls where no natives had yet joined the religion. She stayed in the Marshall Islands as a pioneer until 2000.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. In the Marshall Islands a management team composed of Bahá'ís as requested by the national government, operated 7 public elementary schools under contract with the government. Following the growth of the institutions the organizational impact of the Bahá'ís became more well known starting in the mid-1980s in the Marshall Islands. Seventy Bahá'ís from 19 communities attended the eighth national conference on the progress of the religion in winter 1984 at the national center. Presentations were made on the history of the religion, the role of Bahá'í youth, laws, consultation, living a Bahá'í life, goals of the current plans, and the Baha'i Faith and the Bible and plans were announced for a national Baha'i women's conference. In July 1985 the Annual Statistical Report has a note on Ujelang as having a group with less than nine adult believers. In January 1986 a national Bahá'í Youth conference was held in Majuro to which 200 children and adults attended the potluck feast followed by 30 youth staying for the workshops. In August Bahá'ís from more than 20 communities gathered at the Bahá'í National Center for a national peace conference where one of the guest speakers was A.D. Tennekone, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. In October national assembly hosted an International Year of Peace dinner for the President and other government officials in Majuro as well as a United Nations Day public peace program in Mili Atoll. In August 1987 the national assembly locality report notes Enewetak and Ujelang Atolls are listed as having Bahá'ís. The first Marshall Islander went on Bahá'í pilgrimage in February 1987.\n\nFrom at least 2001 to 2007 the national assembly ran a website which hosted Marshallese language Bahá'í literature and Ruhi Institute books online. Dominic Tabuaka represented the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Marshall Islands attended the 50th anniversary of the Bahá'í Faith in Kiribati. And Bahá'ís from the Marshall Islands attended the regional conference of Bahá'ís in the Philippines in 2008.\n\nThe Bahá'ís have had a long positive relationship with the government. Amata Kabua, then President of the Marshall Islands, was a government leader who has a close relationship with Bahá'í institutions nationally and internationally. In his address at the opening of the UN General Assembly in October 1991 President Kabua called for \"a new and comprehensive vision of a global society, supported by a new system of values. This recognition does not imply the abandonment of legitimate loyalties, the suppression of cultural diversity, nor the abolition of national autonomy. It calls for a wider loyalty, for a far higher aspiration than has thus far animated human affairs.\" He also delivered the keynote address to the \"Turning Point for All Nations\" seminar held at the Bahá'í International Community's offices in October 1995. In the summer of 2000 the Bahá'ís held an \"Ocean of Light Conference\" which was biggest Bahá'í event ever up to that time in the country and was attended by Kessai Note, the next president of the Marshall Islands, along with over 250 Bahá'ís from across the Pacific. \nPresident Kessai Note, and his wife, Mary Note, also paid an official visit to the Bahá'í World Centre on 1 December 2005.\n\nBy 1992 the Bahá'ís operate state schools under contract with the government.\nIn 2003 a Bahá'í with the main goal of helping the rural population established a project which he sees as an extension of his commitment to the promotion of social and economic development — a commitment that stems from his practice of the Bahá’í Faith.\n\nIn 2007 The Commission on Sustainable Development held sessions in relation to CSD-15. One attracted 90 people to hear six panelists. The event was chaired by Tahirih Naylow and sponsored by the Bahá'í International Community with the UN Permanent Missions of Tuvalu and of the Marshall Islands and a number of other UN and academic organizations. Enele Sopoaga, former Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Tuvalu to the UN, opened the session, noting that reports suggest that for islands such as his as well as other atoll states: Maldives, Marshall Islands, and Kiribati, scenarios for the future include “total extinction.”\n\nIn 2009 and 2010 people attended follow-up meetings on the theme at sessions of a conference sponsored in part by the International Environment Forum, a Bahá'í inspired organization. The session was given by two Bahá'ís: Carol Curtis and Tahirih Naylor, of the Bahá'í International Community. Naylor considered the macro level, looking at the importance of including ethics in the discussion of climate change and the Bahá’í contribution to the climate change discourse, Curtis focused on the micro level, specifically the threat that climate change poses to the Marshall Islands. Curtis has lived on the Lea Atoll for more than 40 years. She describes in some detail the environment and lifestyle on the islands, the population and the land area.\n\nEstimates of the number of Bahá'ís in the Marshal Islands vary considerably. From 1983 to 1987 the percentage of Bahá'ís reported for the Marshall Islands, went from 2% to 11.5% according to Bahá'í sources. Similar growth rates are reported in some other Pacific nations. But as early as 2001 the US State Dept estimated the Bahá'ís at 0.6 percent or about 400. However almost at the same time the 2000 World Christian Encyclopedia estimation of a Bahá'í population was just over 1,000, or 1.50%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26983127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983127", "title": "Bhangi Misl", "text": "Bhangi Misl\n\nThe Bhangi Misl () was a large Sikh Misl headquartered in a village near Amritsar. It was founded in the early 18th century by Sardar Chhajja Singh, who was baptised by Baba Banda Singh Bahadur. The \"misl\" received its name \"Bhangi\" because Chhajja Singh and his soldiers were addicted to the herbal intoxicant bhang (drink made from cannabis sativa). After Sardar Chhajja Singh's death, the Bhangi \"misl\" was succeeded by Bhuma Singh.\n\nIt grew in strength and territory to cover an area from Attock to Multan and emerged as the strongest power in the western Punjab region. However, deaths among the leadership during the late 1760s reduced the Misl's power.\n\nThe Bhangi misl engaged in numerous power struggles with the Sukerchakia Misl until they were severely weakened at the Battle of Basin and the loss of Lahore to Ranjit Singh.\n\nBhangi Misl held the possession of Zamzama, the famous cannon, which was at the time named Bhangi Toap, Bhangianwala Toap and Bhangian di Top, names it retains to this day.\n"}
{"id": "40134400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40134400", "title": "Brotherhood Without Violence", "text": "Brotherhood Without Violence\n\nThe Brotherhood Without Violence is a movement within the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. It was established on 10 July 2013 by approximately 500 young members of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood, though it has since expanded to about 1,400 members. The founder of the group is Ahmed Yahia. The media spokesman is Hussein Abdel Rahman. The members have called for new elections to be held to the guidance bureau of the Brotherhood. The Brotherhood Without Violence movement has backed Hamdeen Sabahi in the 2014 Egyptian presidential election. The logo of the group replaces the swords in the Muslim Brotherhood logo with olive branches.\n"}
{"id": "3218802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218802", "title": "Buddhism in Argentina", "text": "Buddhism in Argentina\n\nBuddhism in Argentina has been practiced since the early 1980s.\n\nAlthough Argentina is largely Catholic Christianity, Chinese immigrants established the first Chinese temple in 1986, and Korean immigrants founded their own temple. Since then many groups have been giving teachings, some of them rooted in the best known Sōtō tradition from Japan, but also in many Tibetan institutes for the practice of meditation (Mahamudra, Dzog Chen, Lam Rim).\n\nThe XIV Dalai Lama visited Buenos Aires twice. The first time was in 1991 or 1992.\n\nNowadays many branches have flourished and teach.\n\nMany organizations have cooperated to bring the relics of the Buddha to Argentina. This event was supported by the Royal Embassy of Thailand in Buenos Aires.\n\nAmong scholars who contributed to the spreading of Buddhism in Argentina are Samuel Wolpin, whose books have opened a door to many students and the general public, and Carmen Dragonetti and Fernando Tola, who have been researching and studying Buddhism for many years, with their books translated to many languages.\n\nTeachers who have visited the country include Pu Hsien, founder of the Tzon Kuan Temple, Mok Sunim, responsible for spreading of Korean Buddhism in the early twentyfirst century, Chogyal Namkhai Norbu, founder of the international Dzog Chen Community who transmitted Dzog Chen teachings here, and Lama Ngawang Sherab Dorje, who visited Argentina many times.\n\nLocal teachers include Augusto Alcalde (Diamond Sangha) the first Roshi in this country. Jorge Bustamante, Soto lineage. Alberto Pulisi (Upasaka). Gonzalo Barreiros (Dharma Teacher), and two Argentine lamas, Horacio and Consuelo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1687743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687743", "title": "Buddhism in Brazil", "text": "Buddhism in Brazil\n\nWith nearly 250,000 Buddhists, Brazil is home to the third largest Buddhist population in the Americas, after the United States and Canada. Buddhism in Brazil consists of practitioners from various Buddhist traditions and schools. A number of Buddhist organisations and groups are also active in Brazil, with nearly 150 temples spread across the states.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to Brazil due to the immigration of Japanese in the early 20th century. Thus, Japanese schools and sects of Buddhism, such as Soto Zen, Nichiren Honmon Butsuryu Shu, Jodo Shinshu (also known as True Pure Land Buddhism) and Soka Gakkai have a strong presence in Brazil. Despite being the most expressive in Brazil, these schools face a number of challenges which limit their influence and outreach. One of those challenges is the mismatch of goals and expectations between the more traditional, Japanese-born people and the native Brazilians alongside those of Japanese descent.\n\nAlthough the Japanese contributed to the introduction of Buddhism to Brazil, adherence to Buddhism is not particularly widespread among descendants of Japanese immigrants, who were largely converted to Roman Catholicism. Those who practice and identify with Buddhism tend to display a wide variety of stances regarding their relationships to the ethnicity and the religious tradition. To various degrees most of them attempt to simultaneously meld with local Brazilian culture according to their personal preferences. Most such schools are attempting to reach out to Brazilians not of Japanese descent, however often facing considerable internal resistance in the process.\n\nOther Japanese traditions present in Brazil include Shingon, Tendai, Nichiren-shū and Nichiren Shōshū schools, albeit in somewhat modest numbers. Recent years also saw a growth of interest in the practice Zen variants from Korea and Vietnam in Brazil.\n\nThe Theravada tradition's presence in Brazil was started by those who created the Brazil Buddhist Society. It was initially presented with a generalist non-sectarian approach to Buddhism, it evolved into a more Theravada-aligned society drawing teachings from the Pāli Canon of the Tripitaka and to other teachings and practices of the Theravada tradition.\nSince the 1970s it has maintained simple installations built with voluntary work which have hosted visiting monks from Sri Lanka and other Theravada countries. In 1989, the Nalanda Buddhist Centre was established. It maintains affiliated groups in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, São Paulo and Curitiba, and has invited a large number of international teachers through the years.\n\nAll four major schools of Vajrayana Buddhism, Nyingma, Gelug, Sakya and Kagyu schools, maintain active centers in Brazil. Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche relocated the headquarters of his international organization to Três Coroas in Rio Grande do Sul State where he spent the last few years of his life. The 14th Dalai Lama visited Brazil in 2006.\n\nThe Chinese Chan school and Mahayana Buddhism is centered on the city of Cotia's Zu Lai Temple and its companion Buddhist University in São Paulo State, both of which were opened in 2003. The temple, near the city of São Paulo, is the largest temple in Latin America, and was built using funds raised from American Buddhist organisations and donors.\n\nThe Fo Guang Shan Temple in the city of Olinda, in the northeastern state of Pernambuco, also belongs to the Mahayana tradition.\n\nThe Vietnamese Zen school of Thich Nhat Hanh maintains temples and sangha in the cities of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.\n\nAlthough Brazil remains a largely Christian country, Buddhism has a growing presence in Brazil. There is considerable online activity and dialogue amongst Brazilian Buddhists, with a number of websites and online groups; there are, for example, Facebook groups dedicated for discussion and clarifying doubts about Buddhism and Buddhist teachings.\n\nThe activities of Buddhist groups are however a bit restricted due to the linguistic geography of Brazil - since it is a non-Spanish speaking country in Latin America. This limits the cross-boundary activities typical of the Buddhist organisations active in other countries.\n\nThe State government of Espírito Santo has implemented a special training programme for military police to attend zen courses at the Mosteiro Zen Morro da Vargem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15850434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15850434", "title": "Buddhism in the Netherlands", "text": "Buddhism in the Netherlands\n\nBuddhism is a small minority religion in the Netherlands, but it has shown rapid growth in recent years. As of the 2006 estimate, 170,000 Dutch people identified their religion as Buddhist (about 1% of the total population).\n\nThe first awareness of Buddhism in the Netherlands can be traced back to early books, with references to Buddhism reappearing in 1651, 1843 and 1878, with the first book on Buddhism being written in the Dutch language in 1879. The turn of the century saw more popular books on Buddhism published in Dutch.\n\nThe scientific study of Buddhism began in the Netherlands with the appointment of Hendrik Kern as the first professor for the chair for Sanskrit at Leiden University. He published two histories and a manual of Buddhism. Kern, like Émile Senart, portrayed the Buddha as a legendary being or a hero representing the sun. Kern was succeeded by Jacob Speyer (1849–1913), who translated several Mahayana texts and the Jatakamala for the series ‘The Sacred Books of the Buddhists’. The subsequent chair, Jean Philippe Vogel (1871–1958), became famous as an archaeologist by proving that Kasia in India must have been Kusinara, the place of the Parinirvana of the Buddha. He also conducted investigations on the Borobudur, the great Buddhist monument on the Isle of Java.\n\nAfter the Second World War, a strong ally for Buddhism came in the form of the Theosophists. The Dutch secretary of the Theosophical Society Adyar, Mrs. Spruitenburg, returned from India and started ‘gatherings’ in her home in Huizen that attracted dozens of people from all over the country. Among them was Ernst Verwaal, who founded the ‘Buddhistische Vriendenkring Den Haag’ (Circle of Friends of Buddhism The Hague), later renamed as ‘Nederlandse Buddhistische Vriendenkring’ (Dutch Circle of Friends of Buddhism). He issued a simple journal. The centre of the ‘Circle’ was in The Hague, where in 1966 the wife of the Thai Ambassador, Mrs. Bhakdi, started receiving on Saturdays its members in the Thai Embassy. Later the group was presided by Ronald Poelmeijer, also being influenced by Peter van der Beek, who in 1953 became a member of The Western Buddhist Order, represented in Europe by the British Buddhist Jack Austin.\n\nIn 1966 the Dutch Circle of Friends of Buddhism Circle changed its name to the ‘Buddhist Society in the Netherlands’. The new Society held activities that were calculated liberal to all the schools of Buddhism. This ecumenical policy led to some dissension, and later the organization was revamped as the ‘Stichting Nederlands Buddhistisch Centrum’ (Dutch Buddhist Centre Foundation) on 8 November 1967, with the aim ‘to study of the principles of Buddhism in all its diversity and to encourage the practical application of these principles. From 1968 to the present, the Centre has issued a journal. Originally it was called ‘Saddharma’ and early in the 21st century it was rechristened as ‘Vorm en Leegte’ and published together with a commercial Buddhist publisher. The centre changed its name in 1978 to ‘Stichting Vrienden van het Boeddhisme’ (Friends of Buddhism Foundation). In the same year the ‘Boeddhistische Unie van Nederland’ (Buddhist Union of the Netherlands) was founded, consisting only of representatives of Buddhist groups, with Tony Kurpershoek-Scherft as its first President. It was this second organization which became the Dutch member of the European Buddhist Union. Early 21st century however it dropped its membership of the EBU for a number of reasons; a main one being that the EBU had, and currently still has, both national umbrella organisations amongst its members as well as 'traditions on European level' like FPMT, Triratna Buddhist Community etc. making it in the BUN's eyes a too confused platform.\n\nFrom 1978 onwards, the history of Buddhism in the Netherlands is mostly the story of individual Buddhist traditions. With however the BUN still acting on their behalf towards government and NGOs, leading to e.g. the BOS 'Boeddhistische Omroep Stichting' (Buddhist Broadcasting Channel) and the formal Buddhist Prisoner Chaplainship which gets equal recognition as other religions. And the SVB still being relevant as an ecumenical entry-level organisation, and as publisher of the only generic Buddhist (quarterly) magazine available in Dutch kiosks.\n\nIn 1968 Leo Boer and Janwillem van de Wetering founded a Zen group, and through two books made Zen popular in the Netherlands. The guidance of the group was taken over by Erik Bruijn who is still in charge of a flourishing community. \n\nThere are several Zen organisations in the Netherlands:\n\nIn 1971 the Dutch merchant Monshouwer gathered some people in order to discuss the possibility of founding a Theravada temple with the support of Thai ambassador Sompong Sucharitkul. In 1973 the temple was officially founded in Waalwijk. Originally the temple was named Wat Dhammasucaritanucharee, but two years later renamed as Buddharama Temple with its own supporting foundation called ‘Young Buddhists Netherlands’. This foundation had its own journal. Later the founding abbot Ven. Mettavihari moved to Amsterdam and started a separate community of vipassana practitioners there. The foundation supporting the Thai temple in Waalwijk was renamed the ‘Nederlandse Buddha Dhamma Stichting’ (Dutch Buddha Dhamma Foundation) and now aims mainly for Thai immigrants. \n\nIn 2015 it became known that Mettavihari had sexually abused various of his followers in Waalwijk and elsewhere. At least 21 victims had accused him of abuse by June 2015.\n\nAfter the passing away of Ven. Mettavihari, there still is the Sangha Metta Buddhist temple in Amsterdam centre; next to this two countrywide organisations being the general Vipassana-oriented SIM and the Burmese-oriented Sagya U Bha Khin . Also more regional organisations exist e.g. around Groningen and Drenthe in the north of the country.\n\nIn 1977 Han de Wit, an authorized pupil of the Kagyu lama Chogyam Trungpa, founded a centre in Amsterdam which is engaged in teaching the Dharma and meditation according to Tibetan tradition. There is a smaller centre in Oegstgeest, also founded by de Wit, and groups in two other towns (Utrecht and Nijmegen). Other Karma Kagyu centres from different lineages have also sprung up, e.g. Naropa Institute in Cadzand, the locally famous Stupa temple in Hantum and Diamond Way Buddhism (Ole Nydahl).\nThe Tibetan Nyingma tradition is represented by several groups. They have a centre (Nyingma Centrum, Nederland) and a bookshop in Amsterdam. These groups belong to the organization of Tarthang Tulku who resides in California. The Gelugpa tradition (FPMT) is organized in the Maitreya Institute and owns a retreat centre in Loenen, Apeldoorn and a city centre in Amsterdam. The Maitreya Institute centres here are based on the initiative of Paula Koolkin in 1976. In August 1979 lama Thubten Yeshe and lama Zopa Rinpoche came to teach. By 2013 lama Geshe Sonam Gyaltsen and lama Sonam Ngodrup are the teachers in permanent residence. The Sakya tradition of Tibetan Buddhism took a foothold in 1976 as Geshe Lama Sherab Gyaltsen Amipa established the ‘Sakya Thegchen Ling’ in The Hague. \nNext to these four main schools there are also representations of more ecumenic and split-off Tibetan Groups. E.g. Rigpa from Sogyal Rinpoche, Dzogchen community from Chogyal Namkhai Norbu, the New Kadampa Tradition and the Jewel Heart affiliated with Gelek Rinpoche.\n\nFinally two more ecumenic groups should be mentioned. In the first place the Triratna Buddhist Community (TBC, formerly FWBO) connected with the large movement of Ven. Sangharakshita in the UK. It is growing at a regular speed, with centres in Amsterdam and Arnhem and a retreat centre in Hengstdijk, in the southern Zeeuws-Vlaanderen region. The centre in Den Haag, 'Boeddhistisch Centrum Haaglanden', follows roughly the same teaching but separated from the movement. Secondly there is the Arya Maitreya Mandala, a group of pupils of Lama Anagarika Govinda. This group had separated itself from the larger group in Germany after the death of Lama Govinda.\n\nIn 1971 there were 900 Buddhists in the Netherlands. Since 1971 the number of Buddhists has increased considerably, probably in connection with the rise of ‘alternative’ views in society and the decline of Christianity. The increased interest in Buddhism is evident from the growth in number of Buddhist centres. In 1990 total there were forty-two groups., in 2010 between eighty and one hundred including groups associated with a larger national centre. A Buddhist broadcasting channel (Boeddhistische Omroep Stichting) offers programming on the national network. In 2004 there were 170,000 Buddhists in the Netherlands - about 1% of the population. Also the Buddhist Prison Chaplainship , 'Boeddhistische Zendende Instantie', is formally recognised by the government, gets equal subsidy as the other main religions and is busy setting up a professional training in cooperation with the Free University of Amsterdam.\n\n"}
{"id": "49174630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49174630", "title": "Cipus", "text": "Cipus\n\nCipus was a legendary Roman praetor famous for his \"pietas\". After receiving a prophecy that he would become king of Rome, he chose voluntary exile instead of the throne. He is mentioned by Ovid in his \"Metamorphoses\", Pliny the Elder in \"Natural History\", and Valerius Maximus.\n\nOvid's treatment of Cipus in Book 15 of Metamorphoses is the most thorough. According to Ovid, Cipus notices that he has grown horns on his head after seeing his reflection in a stream. He declares that if the omen is good it should benefit his lands and the inhabitants of Quirinus (i.e., Rome), but if the omen is ill it should fall solely on his shoulders. Cipus then builds new altars and makes sacrifices to the gods. A seer who examined the entrails spilled during the sacrifice prophesies that Cipus would enter Rome and be chosen its king.\n\nCipus decides that living in exile is preferable to being made king and devises a plan. He hides his horns with a garland of laurel and calls a meeting of the citizens and the Roman Senate. At this gathering, he warns that it has been prophesied that someone with horns on his head will enter Rome, be made its king, and give the citizens laws as if they were slaves. Cipus does not reveal that he is the prophesied king, but, instead, tells the people that he has hindered this king.\n\nAt the end of his speech, Cipus removes the garland of laurel and reveals his horns. The people are awe struck by this revelation, but soon place a festive headdress on Cipus' head since they cannot allow him to remain in Rome un-honored. The Senate then grants Cipus lands equal to the amount that oxen could encircle in one day and he leaves the city in exile.\n\nFinally, the image of Cipus' horns is carved on the gates of the city gate and his name is remembered for ages to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "36844669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36844669", "title": "Citizen Khan", "text": "Citizen Khan\n\nCitizen Khan is a British sitcom produced by the BBC and created by Adil Ray. Five series have been shown so far. It was set in Sparkhill, East Birmingham, described by its lead character, a British Pakistani Muslim Mr Khan (Ray), as \"the capital of British Pakistan\". \"Citizen Khan\" follows the trials and tribulations of Mr Khan, a loud-mouthed, patriarchal, cricket-loving, self-appointed community leader, and his long suffering wife (played by Shobu Kapoor) and daughters Shazia (Maya Sondhi 2012–2014, Krupa Pattani 2015–16) and Alia (Bhavna Limbachia). In Series One, Kris Marshall starred as Dave, the manager of Mr Khan's local mosque. The first name of Mrs Khan is Razia, however Mr Khan's first name is never revealed.\n\nThe title of the show is a play on the title of the Orson Welles film \"Citizen Kane\". The character Mr Khan had already featured in the BBC Two comedy series \"Bellamy's People\", on BBC Radio 4's \"Down the Line\" and on his own online series on the BBC Comedy website. On 27 September 2012, the BBC announced that \"Citizen Khan\" had been commissioned for a second series. On 2 December 2013, BBC controller Charlotte Moore announced that \"Citizen Khan\" had been renewed for a third series which began airing on 31 October 2014. On 11 December 2014, BBC comedy controller Shane Allen announced that a fourth series had been commissioned. On 14 October 2015, the official Facebook page of \"Citizen Khan\" confirmed through a video of Mr Khan that the fourth series would begin on 30 October 2015. On 20 January 2016, it was confirmed the show would return for a fifth series which started airing on 4 November 2016.\n\nAlthough Adil Ray is a Muslim, the show has divided opinion on whether its humour is a mockery of followers of that religion. Ray maintains that Mr Khan is a comic character who is intended for families of any ethnic background to relate to, as with other British family sitcoms.\n\nThe first episode of \"Citizen Khan\" was first broadcast on BBC One on 27 August 2012, in a late timeslot of 10:20pm. It received what Digital Spy referred to as an \"impressive\" 3.41 million viewers and 20.9% of the audience.\n\nThe \"Daily Mail\"s Saira Khan stated \"at last, a home grown sitcom that allows British Muslims to laugh at themselves. Good on the BBC for finally realising the comic potential in one of the biggest communities that make up modern Britain.\"\n\n\"The Independent\"s Hasnet Lais stated \"Credit must be given to Adil Ray for not sparing any sacred cows and shining light on the conundrum of some British Muslim women under the patriarchal cosh.\"\n\nThe BBC received over 700 complaints following the airing of the first episode with a further 20 complaints to Ofcom. Some British Muslims claimed that the show \"ridicules\" and \"insults\" Islam. The BBC claimed it had evidence the complaints were part of a lobbying campaign and countered it saying a number of people, including those of Muslim communities, praised the show and referred to its audience figures as a \"very positive start.\"\n\n\"The Independent\"s Arifa Akbar commented negatively on its many clichéd jokes and character traits and drawing many comparisons with 1970s-style sitcoms. Mark Jones of \"The Guardian\" was more optimistic, describing it as \"an affable enough debut, deserving a wider audience than this post-watershed slot is likely to attract.\"\n\nThe Islam Channel made a special show titled \"Politics and Media: Citizen Khan – Racist stereotypes or harmless fun?\" Presenter John Rees discussed whether the BBC comedy is stereotyping Muslims, or whether it is fun and can be laughed about by Muslims.\n\nBy the second episode, broadcast on 3 September, \"Citizen Khan\" clips had become viral. Opinion outside the United Kingdom has also been mixed, resulting in many heated debates. Outside of the UK, Pakistani newspaper \"The News International\" criticised the BBC's use of Pakistani flags in the Khan's home and Mr Khan's younger daughter quickly putting on a hijab and pretending to read the Qur'an. The Pakistan News Watch website countered \"shows like \"Citizen Khan\" are essential in multicultural societies and help put all communities on an equal footing – if everyone can have a laugh at everyone else's expense, then no one can claim superiority.\" The debate continued into a third week with the \"Yorkshire Post\" publishing an article by Pakistani journalist Sabbiyah Pervez appealing to her own community to \"stop being so defensive and learn to laugh at itself.\"\n\nThe BBC ordered a seven-episode second series on 27 September 2012 due to good ratings. On 18 September 2013, the BBC announced that the second series would air on Friday nights in the prime time 9.30pm slot from 4 October.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Guardian\", Adil Ray stated \"What I’ve intended to do with \"Citizen Khan\" is a good thing – to make Mr Khan a good character, to make him universal and a communication between different communities.\" The television industry newspaper Broadcast run an article entitled ‘Rise of a sitcom hero’\n\nThe show, along with coverage of the 2012 Summer Olympics, \"Top Gear\", \"The Apprentice\", \"Doctor Who\", \"Sherlock\" and \"The Voice UK\", made up the list of the most watched shows on the BBC iPlayer in 2012.\n\nSeries 3 of \"Citizen Khan\" gained an audience of around 5 million per episode, including iPlayer views. Ahead the Series 4 debut in October 2015, Vicky Power of \"The Daily Telegraph\" stated \"It’s harmless, friendly fun for the whole family.\" Series 4 of \"Citizen Khan\" made its debut on 30 October 2015. The series attracted a record 3.3 million viewers.\n\n\"Citizen Khan\" has been exported to Australia, India, Russia, Bulgaria and New Zealand, spawned Christmas specials and prompted a UK-wide “live” tour of regional theaters. Speaking to \"The Daily Telegraph\" in 2015 ahead of the launch of series 4, Adil Ray stated that fans of the show realise it is a \"big laugh out loud comedy, not a reflection of every Muslim or Pakistani family in the country.\"\n\nFrom Series 4, the role of Shazia Khan was taken over by Krupa Pattani replacing Maya Sondhi.\n\nAdil Ray has reported that he received death threats for the show, including one threatening a riot. He has stated that his influences came from comedies such as \"Only Fools and Horses\" and \"Fawlty Towers\" that were aimed at family audiences, and he desires for families of all backgrounds to be able to see elements of Khan's character in their father figure. Ray has claimed that for every complaint he had over a scene in which Khan's daughter Alia hurriedly covers her head in the presence of her father, he received ten from Muslims, Catholics and Jews relating to the experience of a child behaving similarly.\n\nIn April 2016, the show was condemned in parliament by Rupa Huq, Labour MP for Ealing Central and Acton, who called its portrayal of a Birmingham Muslim family \"quite backward\".\n\n\nKhan has made appearances at Children In Need 2014 in which he appeared as a guest in the EastEnders’ pub, The Queen Victoria, Comic Relief 2015, in which he joked he was hoping to be considered for Jeremy Clarkson’s job at Top Gear, the FA Cup Final 2015, supporting local Birmingham team Aston Villa, and in October 2015 took over the train announcements at Birmingham New Street station for an hour. On Friday 18 November 2016, the cast of \"Citizen Khan\" made an appearance on Children in Need in a live sketch \"Citizen Khan v Citizen Kane\" where they were joined by comedian Russell Kane and his family for a dance off. On 11 March 2017, Adil Ray appeared as Mr Khan on Let's Sing and Dance for Comic Relief as a judge.\n\nTotal viewers include overnight views plus views on BBC iPlayer, BBC HD and recorded catch-up services. Official accurate figures are released 10 days after original transmission by BARB. For instance, \"Citizen Khan\" Series 2 Episode 1 attracted overall figures of 4.53m, a consolidated share of 15.1% including 1.17 million BBC iPlayer requests.\n\nPremiering on 12 July 2013, the series airs on Comedy Central India in India. In the United Kingdom, reruns of the show air on Gold.\n\nSeries 1, 2 & 3 are available to buy on iTunes in both Standard Definition and High Definition, \"A Khan Christmas\" and \"A Khan Family Christmas\" have also been made available to buy.\n\nThese are programmes with a similar premise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2309579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2309579", "title": "Condemned: Criminal Origins", "text": "Condemned: Criminal Origins\n\nCondemned: Criminal Origins (known in Europe as Condemned) is a first-person survival horror video game developed by Monolith Productions and published by Sega. It was launched worldwide in 2005 on the Xbox 360, with a Microsoft Windows version released later in 2006.\n\n\"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" places an emphasis on melee combat and puzzle solving, including searching for fingerprints and gathering evidence.\n\nUpon release, \"Condemned\" was met with moderate to good reviews by many aggregates and critics. Many reviewers cited its storyline and lack of progression as the game's biggest fault. As a reprieve, the game's solid controls and fresh approach to the horror genre were praised. A sequel, entitled \"\", was released in 2008 for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Other media forms include an internet prequel and a planned film adaptation to expand the \"Condemned\" franchise. The developers have cited films such as \"The Silence of the Lambs\" and \"Seven\" as inspiration for the game.\n\nAlthough the game is played entirely from a first-person perspective (only broken for cut scenes), it is not a traditional first-person shooter. Firearms are present, but are somewhat uncommon. Unlike many other games from a first-person perspective, though, firearms are especially deadly, often killing enemies with a single shot. The guns that can be found, or taken from enemies, are only good for as long as the current ammo in the magazine lasts; once this is depleted, the butt of the gun can be used as a weapon. To complicate matters further, enemies operate firearms from the same ammo reserve, meaning once the enemy has been dispatched, the player only gets what ammo was left over from the fight. This encourages players to attack enemies carrying firearms quickly.\n\nThe focus of the experience is on improvised melee, allowing players and enemies to collect, or even pull, weapons from their surrounding environments, such as pipes, locker doors, shovels, and 2x4s. The word often employed by the developers of the game to describe the combat is 'visceral'. A quick-kick is available for attacking without, or alongside, a hand-held weapon, and attacks can be unleashed in different directions and configurations, such as left to right or overhead, but combat is notable for \"not\" utilizing a combo system, unlike similar titles such as \"\". In many cases, blocking is necessary both before and after landing a successful hit. The player can also perform \"finishing moves\" when the opponent is on his knees, such as headbutting or breaking their neck.\n\nThe artificial intelligence displayed by enemies requires the player to think on their feet a great deal more than similar games. Enemies are able to flee and hide effectively, often surprising the player by quickly appearing from a concealed spot. Enemies can also effectively feint, in order to trick the player into blocking at an inopportune time, leaving themselves open for the real attack.\n\nAlthough there are sharp weapons in the game, one cannot stab or dismember enemies. In fact, the player can almost never wield an actual knife or sword, with the exception being in the School level, where the player has brief access to a meat cleaver. Some melee weapons fall under the class of \"entry tool\", (like a fire axe for a rotten door, or a crowbar for a locked safe) and act as keys in the gameworld, allowing the player to access new areas or locked boxes.\n\nThe player also has a taser gun which when used stuns the target, does some damage and allows the player to seize the stunned enemy's weapon. Later in the game, Lieutenant Rosa gives the player a new upgraded taser, which is much more powerful, causing the enemy's legs to give out. One hit or shot after that will kill any enemy. Common uses for it are safely attacking enemies with guns (since it allows players to stun them from a distance and then seize the gun while the enemy is incapacitated), countering an immediate attack (since using the taser does not require the precise timing that blocking does) and obtaining the chance to make a free hit (a hit where the player does not risk being hit first). However, it has to recharge between shots so it cannot be used to bypass the game's system of carefully fighting enemies.\n\nThe entire game takes place in derelict urban environments, with minimum lighting. The player must use a flashlight to navigate through the game's constantly darkened environments, while dealing with frequent enemy ambushes.\n\nNear the end of the game the player loses both the flashlight and the taser. This means all strategies which required the taser become impossible and the only personal light source becomes burning planks which means carrying a gun reduces visibility. This effectively forces the player to rely exclusively on blocking, hiding and evasion for defense and close range attacks for offense.\n\n\"Condemned\" directly involves the player in crime scene investigations, offering the ability to, at the press of a context-sensitive button, call upon a suite of forensic tools to find and record evidence. The player character is linked to an FBI lab via his mobile phone throughout the investigation, allowing (almost immediate) remote examination and analysis by his support worker, Rosa. Crime scene evidence can be used to solve puzzles, allowing the player to pass previously impassable barriers, and provide clues to the overall mysteries of the story.\n\nExamples of evidence include fingerprints, footprints, fibers, fluids (such as blood or chemicals), particles, residues, markings/etchings, material, imprints, wounds, small objects, documents, and body parts.\n\nThe player character is gifted with the instinctual ability to detect when forensic evidence is nearby, allowing players to bring up the detection and collection tools when appropriate. However, the \"instincts\" of the character only vaguely highlight the area in which the evidence resides; it is up to the player to methodically sweep the scene and catalog any findings.\n\n\"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" is set in the fictional American city of Metro. The player takes on the role of Ethan Thomas, a crime scene investigation agent with the FBI's Serial Crime Unit, as he traverses the seedier sides of the city. His journey takes him through a number of condemned buildings as he searches for the one who framed him for murder, the evasive Serial Killer X. Along the way, Ethan must use his investigative intuition and technology to examine evidence left behind by SKX, all the while fighting off the violently psychotic denizens of Metro City, who seem to be driven to such madness by a mysterious, yet seemingly extraneous force.\n\nThe game's protagonist is Ethan Thomas (voiced by Greg Grunberg), an SCU investigator with unusually acute investigative instincts. He also is stated to have superhuman durability, as demonstrated by his ability to recover quickly from electrocution, long falls, and blunt trauma to the head, among others. He is aided in his investigations by Rosa, a forensics investigator at headquarters.\n\nThe primary antagonist of the game is Serial Killer X, who is hunting the serial killers that Ethan is searching for, killing them by the methods that they themselves use. Near the end of the game, he is revealed to be Leland Vanhorn, nephew of Ethan’s friend Malcolm. Malcolm believes that Leland is being influenced by mysterious mutilated humanoid creatures that are causing an increase in insanity throughout the city.\n\nThe game begins with the protagonist, SCU agent Ethan Thomas, arriving at the scene of a murder. He and his fellow officers go into an abandoned building that is surrounded by psychopaths and criminals. The crime scene they investigate is one of a young woman. She is on the floor with strangulation wounds, sitting across a table from a male mannequin. Ethan, along with his colleagues, agree that the murder was most likely committed by the Match Maker, a serial killer that Ethan has been investigating. After they collect evidence from the scene, one of the officers smells cigarette smoke. Believing that the smoke must be coming from their suspect, they decide to split up and go after him. While searching for the suspect, Ethan tries to restore power from an electrical box. Due to an electrical surge, Ethan is shocked, and drops to the floor, causing his weapon to be thrown from his hand. A man hiding in the shadows takes it and flees. Ethan manages to chase the man into a small, dead-end room, where the man holds Ethan at gunpoint and tells him they have similar goals. Ethan's colleagues enter the room and tell the man to drop his weapon, and are promptly shot by the man with Ethan's gun, who then shoves Ethan out a window onto the street.\n\nEthan wakes in his apartment with Malcolm Vanhorn, a friend of Ethan’s father, at his side. Malcolm warns Ethan that he is wanted for the deaths of the two officers who were shot with Ethan's gun. Ethan is determined to prove his innocence, although his own sanity appears to be slipping, as throughout the game he suffers numerous horrific visions, and all the while is forced to fight to the death in self-defence against homeless men and women who have inexplicably been driven insane.\n\nHe soon learns that the killer is interested in Ethan’s SCU career. Later, he finds the body of the Match Maker, killed by his own modus operandi in an old department store. He presumes that the man at the original crime scene, referred to in the game as \"Serial Killer X\", is the culprit and that he is trying to kill the serial killers that Ethan is looking for. Ethan searches for the one that he thinks is next, a serial killer dubbed 'The Torturer'.\n\nEthan tracks the Torturer and Serial Killer X to an abandoned apple orchard in the rural town of Brier. Shortly before finding the Torturer in the farmhouse, Ethan is attacked by a strange man-like creature. Ethan kills the creature, and continues in his search. He searches through the farm where he eventually finds the Torturer dead, also killed by his own modus operandi. Soon, Ethan finds the mysterious killer, who is revealed to be Leland Vanhorn, nephew of Malcolm Vanhorn. Malcolm arrives and knocks Ethan out with a shovel to prevent him from hurting Leland. Leland then knocks Malcolm out.\n\nWhen Ethan revives, he is tied up and at the mercy of Leland. He explains to Ethan that he has been killing the serial killers that Ethan had been hunting, and that he intends to kill Ethan as well. As Leland thinks of all the ways that he can kill Ethan, cutting Ethan's finger off in the process, Ethan notices another man-like creature hiding in the rafters. This creature is known as 'The Hate' and is identified as the source of the madness gripping Metro City. Malcolm jumps Leland from behind and succeeds in wrestling him to the ground. Ethan manages to free himself, and Malcolm tells him to kill The Hate, saying that it is the cause of Leland’s madness. Ethan pursues The Hate as it tries to escape, fighting waves of hideously burned homeless men along the way, and eventually corners it in a barn and kills it.\n\nAs Malcolm drives Ethan home, Ethan discovers that Leland is alive, and in the trunk of the car. When Ethan opens the trunk, he is given the option to shoot the tied-up Leland. If he does not shoot Leland, Leland pulls out his own gun and waves it at Ethan before committing suicide. Later, Ethan and Rosa are having a conversation in a diner when Rosa tips him off that she is wired, revealing that she still trusts him. Rosa then leaves the diner, and Ethan goes to the bathroom. While in the restroom, the player witnesses as Ethan's mouth becomes that of one of The Hate before the game comes to an abrupt halt.\n\nThe version of \"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" for the Xbox 360 console employs the achievements system mandated by Microsoft. As the criteria for the achievement awards are met, bonus content is unlocked, which can then be accessed from a special menu. Content includes concept and production sketches and paintings, work-in-progress animation, video from motion capture sessions, and a rather lengthy video showcasing a complete level from an early version of the game. These features were later carried over to the PC version of the game.\n\n\"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" was originally known as \"The Dark\", quite far into production. Under this name, the game was largely similar but differed in several key areas. The player character was known as Agent Cross, and the game appeared to follow him on a government-sanctioned investigation, or investigations, rather than acting as a rogue on the run from the law. Although Cross possessed the supernatural leanings of Thomas from the final game, he could actually use various magical spells. For example, a spell could be uttered to pull a gun from an enemy's hands and another spell saw doors and other obstacles break in front of the player, seemingly negating the need for a fire axe. The forensic tools used by Cross also differed, as the detection and collection tools were typically one individual item - the UV light, for instance, could illuminate clues and then be used to physically swipe across them, to take samples.\n\n\"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" received \"generally favorable reviews\" on both platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. GameSpot said of the Xbox 360 version, \"it captures hand-to-hand combat with intense, lifelike brutality like no other game before it.\" In Japan, where the same console version was ported for release under the name on August 31, 2006, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 25 out of 40, while \"Famitsu Xbox 360\" gave it a score of two nines and two eights for a total of 34 out of 40.\n\n\"Detroit Free Press\" gave the Xbox 360 version a score of all four stars and said, \"Though the game could be longer and could stand more diversity, the cold shivers that run down your spine while playing it are an undeniable rush.\" \"Maxim\" gave it a score of eight out of ten and stated that the game, \"while not entirely original, still creatively mixes the first-person punching of \"\" with the jump-out-at-you frights of \"Doom 3\" and the investigative thrills of the best \"\" episode.\" \"The New York Times\" gave it a favorable review and stated that \"The game is also creepy in another way; you spend much of it essentially beating homeless people to death with pipes. Admittedly, these people attack you, and in fact will often attack and kill one another if you just get out of their way, but I still found it disturbing.\" However, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave it a score of three stars out of five, saying, \"Frights are common as disturbingly psychopathic vagrants lunge at you from the shadows. The violence is raw, barbaric and unsettling.\" \"Edge\", however, gave it a score of six out of ten and called it \"a scary, vicious, visually progressive if rather hollow next-gen showcase that doesn’t outstay its welcome. If you want to spend a night or two in the company of the future of horror videogaming, you could do a lot worse.\"\n\nIn February 2008 all copies of \"Condemned\" were confiscated in Germany because of , which outlaws the dissemination or public display of media \"which describe cruel or otherwise inhuman acts of violence against human beings in a manner which expresses a glorification or rendering harmless of such acts of violence or which represents the cruel or inhuman aspects of the event in a manner which injures human dignity.\" Distribution in Germany is now prohibited by law.\n\nA six-part episodic online game was released on the \"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" website. The protagonist is Agent Mallory, who is searching for a serial killer. In the last episode, Mallory is killed by Serial Killer X. The game ends where \"Condemned: Criminal Origins\" begins.\n\nA direct sequel to the game was released in 2008. It was titled \"Condemned 2: Bloodshot\" to show the character evolution in protagonist Ethan Thomas. The game was developed by Monolith and published by Sega, the same companies as the original. It expanded on the gameplay elements from \"Condemned\" and added several new features such as online multiplayer and environmental kills.\n\nOn October 4, 2005, Warner Brothers Studios announced plans to release a film adaptation which is set in the same \"universe\" as the then upcoming \"Condemned: Criminal Origins\". Warner Bros. Studios had acquired Monolith Productions during 2004 and was expecting 2008 to be announced, but never was.\nA report from \"The Variety\" stated that Kurt Sutter, co-executive producer of the television series \"The Shield\", would be writing the screenplay for the film under the working title \"Unforgettable\".\n\nAccording to earlier drafts of the script, a police officer hunts down a serial killer in an attempt to clear his name from murder. However, during the process he discovers that he may be tied to other ongoing murder cases in an unusual way. The cop soon begins to question throughout his investigation upon discovering his supernatural abilities, \"who he is as a man, until he realizes he's not a man. A tug-of-war emerges among a faction of good and evil aliens.\"\n\nAlso connected with the project is Jason Hall, a former Monolith CEO who joined Warner Bros. to become Vice president of Operations over their gaming division. Hall, along with Nathan Henderickson, was responsible for the film's concept and state that he seeks to \"come up with something specifically designed to use multiple mediums to tell stories that had some continuity and connective thread... We wanted to create a universe that, like a \"Star Wars\", was big enough where different stories could exist.\" \"Variety\" indicated that the plan was to introduce audiences to the \"universe\" of \"Condemned\" with \"Criminal Origins\", followed by a film adaptation which will tie-in with a sequel video game gradually expanding the story's universe.\n"}
{"id": "4210601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4210601", "title": "Deborah Lipp", "text": "Deborah Lipp\n\nDeborah Lipp (born 1961) is a Wiccan High Priestess of the Gardnerian Tradition and an American author. She was initiated into a traditional Gardnerian coven of Witches in 1981, became a Wiccan High Priestess in 1986, and has been teaching Wicca and running in Pagan circles ever since. She is an author and lecturer on Wicca, Neo-Paganism, and related subjects, and has been a presenter at numerous Neo-Pagan festivals over the past twenty years. She has a blog called \"Property of a Lady\", which has been mentioned by the blogs \"Shakespeare's Sister\" and \"Pandagon\". She currently lives in Rockland County, NY\n\n\n\nAlso published in:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17918140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17918140", "title": "Dominican Priory, Viborg", "text": "Dominican Priory, Viborg\n\nThe Dominican Priory, Viborg, or Blackfriars (\"Sortebrødrekloster\") was an important Dominican monastery in Viborg, Denmark, during the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Dominicans were a mendicant order which relied on the gifts of local people for their day to day sustinance. Their work was teaching and a rigorous daily schedule of prayers, meditation, and study. The order was introduced into Denmark by Brother Solomon from Aarhus in the 1220s. \n\nViborg Priory was established perhaps as early as 1227 by Bishop Gunnar of Viborg. It is first mentioned in the church annals in 1246 when donations to the priory are listed. \n\nThe priory church was completed towards the end of the 13th century in red brick in the Gothic style and consisted of a choir, sacristy, and central nave. It was located on the north of the priory so as to be near the town. Women were excluded from the church except during church holidays. It was unusual in that preaching was in the Danish language from 1254.\n\nThe priory complex consisted of four ranges built in a rectangle around a central courtyard. One of the wings was a dormitory which had individual cells for the friars and places for novices and lay brothers. The Dominican custom was to sleep fully clothed, including footgear, so that they would be ready to travel at a moment's notice.\n\nThe chapter room was used for meetings and for receiving important guests. The refectory was used as a communal dining hall connected to the bakery, brewery, and storage areas. The friars had a modest library and study hall. Another wing was for guests and a hospital. Over time, through the gifts of local residents, the priory acquired land, farms and a brickworks, worked by servants, lay brothers or compulsory work owed by local farms.\n\nA wall encircled the entire priory, and the entrances were so narrow that they prevented anyone from riding or driving into the open courtyard. \n\nFew of the priors' names are known as written records are scarce. Prior Adam is mentioned in 1353. Prior Niels Jepsen is named in the transfer of a farm to Bishop Erik Kaas in 1516. The last prior was Niels Vinoldsen, named in the dissolution of the priory in 1529.\n\nThe Reformation brought an end to the priory in Viborg and to the Dominicans in Denmark. Both Franciscans and Dominicans felt the effects of the religious reforms which swept through Denmark in the early 16th century. Many Danes felt that the tithes, fees, and work due to religious houses were a burden on a generally poor country. Dominicans and Franciscans, as mendicant orders, added to that burden by requiring constant donations of food, fuel, drink, and services from the local population. Frederick I and Christian III, both of whom were reform-minded kings, received letters of complaint about the mendicant orders and in 1527 began granting local requests to close monasteries. Force was used to shut down religious houses in 27 town in Denmark, including Viborg. In a letter dated 23 February 1529 the king ordered that the priory should be dissolved, that the church was to become a parish church, and that citizen Jens Hvas was to take possession of the priory buildings as personal property. \n\nA fire damaged the priory buildings in 1552 and it appears they were pulled down and the materials used in other houses and businesses in Viborg. The church continued to serve as the parish church for the southern part of Viborg (whence it was known as the \"Søndre Sognkirke\", or \"southern parish church\"). A narrow tower was added to the front of the priory church in 1696-1701 with funds raised by Christen Erichsøn, the local parish priest.\n\nThe town fire of 1726 weakened the remaining structure so badly that church officials decided to demolish the church and to combine the \"priory parish\" with the \"cathedral parish\" until it could be rebuilt. Construction began immediately using the groundplan of the original medieval church in the same style of red brick. Work was substantially completed in 1728. The tower had a high narrow spire on top.\n\nKing Frederick IV donated an altarpiece, constructed in Antwerp in 1520 by Mogens Christian Thrane, with dozens of pictures depicting scenes from the New Testament, from Christianborg Palace chapel in Copenhagen. It is the pride of the modern church.\n\nThe church was restored in 1876, and the tower spire replaced with a stepped brick top which reflects the usual Danish parish tower architecture. In 1912-1917 the church underwent an even more extensive restoration which is the church that may be still seen today.\n\nIn the tower hang three bells: the two oldest from 1729 cast by Caspar Kønig, and the most recent cast by De Smithske and added to the tower in 1929.\n\nThe church features a large pipe organ by Danish builder Christensen, built in 1985, in a mixed baroque-romantic style. Its full disposition is as follows:\n"}
{"id": "39629188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39629188", "title": "Domlur Chokkanathaswamy temple", "text": "Domlur Chokkanathaswamy temple\n\nChokkanathaswamy temple, at Domlur in the Indian city of Bangalore, is dedicated to the deity known as Chokkanathaswamy or Chokka Perumal (the Hindu god Vishnu). It is one of the oldest temples in the city, dating to the Chola period of the 10th century AD.\n\nThis Chola-period Chokkanathaswamy temple is considered as the oldest temple in Bangalore. There are several notable sculptures and decorative features in the complex and the temple faces west. One Tamil inscription dated 1270 A.D. on a door frame states that the doors were donated by one Alagiyar and another inscription says of donation by one Talaikattu and one more inscription dated 1290 A.D. states that Poysala Vira Ramanada made donations to the temple. Vijayanagara style Navaranga and pillars are later editions.\n\nThe Chokkanathaswamy Temple is a 10th-century Chola temple, located in Domlur. There are a number of Tamil inscriptions in the temple. Domlur is called as Tombalur or Desimanikkapattanam in these inscriptions. Chakravarthi Posalaviraramanatha Deva has left inscriptions with directions to temple authorities of his kingdom. Further some inscriptions record the tributes, taxes and tolls made to the temple by Devaraya II of Vijayanagar Empire, which state the houses, wells, land around Tombalur were offered to the deity Sokkapperumal. Another Tamil inscription dated 1270 talks about 2 door posts being donated by Alagiyar. Yet another inscription in Tamil details Talaikkattu and his wife donating lands from Jalapalli village and Vinnamangalam tank to the deity. A 1290 AD inscription talks about donation of ten pens from the revenue of Tommalur by Poysala vira Ramananda.\n\nThe temple has been extensively renovated several times and only the sanctum sanctorum and two ardhamantapas exhibit antiquity.\nThe images of Vishnu, Sridevi and Bhudevi established in Garbhagraha are carved out of Shaligrama stone brought from Gandaki river, in Nepal.\n\nDaily: Morning: 6:00 am - 11:00 am, Evening: 5:45 pm - 8:30 pm\n\nWednesday: Morning: 6:00 am - 11:30 am, Evening: 5:45 pm - 8:30 pm\n\nSaturday: Morning: 6:00 am - 12:30 pm, Evening: 5:45 pm - 9:00 pm\n"}
{"id": "28007200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28007200", "title": "G. B. Singh", "text": "G. B. Singh\n\nG.B. Singh is the author of \"Gandhi Behind the Mask of Divinity\", a biography of Mahatma Gandhi and \"Gandhi Under Cross Examination\".\n\nA periodontist, Singh served in the U.S. Army as a colonel, one of a small number of Sikhs allowed to retain articles of faith, grandfathered in after a change in policy in 1984 forbidding soldiers from exhibiting their religion with \"conspicuous\" clothing or style of hair or beard. He was one of few Sikhs with a turban in the U.S. Army.\n\nAlthough Singh has retired from the U.S. Army, he is still actively involved in supporting rights for future Sikhs to keep their article of faiths in the military.\n\nIn an interview Singh said that he became interested in studying Hinduism while a student of political science at the University of Oklahoma. In 1983, while watching the film \"Gandhi\" and after reading an article, \"The Gandhi Nobody Knows\" by Richard Grenier, he began his investigation into Gandhi's life, which led to the book \"Gandhi Behind the Mask of Divinity\".\n\n\nHe has three daughters and a son. His family currently resides in Colorado.\n"}
{"id": "22902615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902615", "title": "Gwalipa", "text": "Gwalipa\n\nGwalipa was an Indian hermit-saint who lived during the 8th century AD. According to legend, Gwalipa cured the Rajput chieftain Suraj Sen of leprosy, and in gratitude, Suraj Sen founded the city of Gwalior in his name.\n"}
{"id": "5542305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5542305", "title": "Haitian Vodou", "text": "Haitian Vodou\n\nHaitian Vodou (, , also written as Vaudou ; known commonly as Voodoo , sometimes as Vodun , Vodoun , Vodu , or Vaudoux ) is a syncretic religion practiced chiefly in Haiti and the Haitian diaspora. Practitioners are called \"vodouists\" (French: \"vodouisants\" ) or \"servants of the spirits\" (Haitian Creole: \"sèvitè\").\n\nVodouists believe in a distant and unknowable Supreme Creator, \"Bondye\" (derived from the French term \"Bon Dieu\", meaning \"good God\"). According to Vodouists, Bondye does not intercede in human affairs, and thus they direct their worship toward spirits subservient to Bondye, called loa. Every loa is responsible for a particular aspect of life, with the dynamic and changing personalities of each loa reflecting the many possibilities inherent to the aspects of life over which they preside. To navigate daily life, vodouists cultivate personal relationships with the loa through the presentation of offerings, the creation of personal altars and devotional objects, and participation in elaborate ceremonies of music, dance, and spirit possession.\n\nVodou originated in what is now Benin Republic and developed in the French colonial empire in the 18th century among West African peoples who were enslaved, when African religious practice was actively suppressed, and enslaved Africans were forced to convert to Christianity. Religious practices of contemporary Vodou are descended from, and closely related to, West African Vodun as practiced by the Fon and Ewe. Vodou also incorporates elements and symbolism from other African peoples including the Yoruba and Kongo; as well as Taíno religious beliefs, Roman Catholicism, and European spirituality including mysticism and other influences.\n\nIn Haiti, some Roman Catholics combine their faith with aspects of Vodou. This practice is denounced as diabolical by virtually all Haitian Protestants.\n\n\"Vodou\" is a Haitian Creole word that formerly referred to only a small subset of Haitian rituals. The word derives from an Ayizo word referring to mysterious forces or powers that govern the world and the lives of those who reside within it, but also a range of artistic forms that function in conjunction with these \"vodun\" energies. Two of the major speaking populations of Ayizo are the Ewe and the Fon—European slavers called both the Arada. These two peoples composed a sizable number of the early enslaved population in St. Dominique. In Haiti, practitioners occasionally use \"Vodou\" to refer to Haitian religion generically, but it is more common for practitioners to refer to themselves as those who \"serve the spirits\" (\"sèvitè\") by participating in ritual ceremonies, usually called a \"service to the loa\" (\"sèvis lwa\") or an \"African service\" (\"sèvis gine\"). These terms also refer to the religion as a whole.\n\nOutside of Haiti, the term \"Vodou\" refers to the entirety of traditional Haitian religious practice. \nOriginally written as \"vodun\", it is first recorded in \"Doctrina Christiana\", a 1658 document written by the King of Allada's ambassador to the court of Philip IV of Spain. In the following centuries, \"Vodou\" was eventually taken up by non-Haitians as a generic descriptive term for traditional Haitian religion. There are many used orthographies for this word. Today, the spelling \"Vodou\" is the most commonly accepted orthography in English. Other potential spellings include \"Vodoun\", \"vaudou\", and \"voodoo\", with \"vau-\" or \"vou-\" prefix variants reflecting French orthography, and a final \"-n\" reflecting the nasal vowel in West African or older, non-urbanized, Haitian Creole pronunciations.\n\nThe spelling \"voodoo\", once very common, is now generally avoided by Haitian practitioners and scholars when referring to the Haitian religion. This is both to avoid confusion with Louisiana Voodoo, a related but distinct set of religious practices, as well as to separate Haitian Vodou from the negative connotations and misconceptions the term \"voodoo\" has acquired in popular culture. Over the years, practitioners and their supporters have called on various institutions including the Associated Press to redress this misrepresentation by adopting \"Vodou\" in reference to the Haitian religion. In October 2012, the Library of Congress decided to change their subject heading from \"Voodooism\" to Vodou in response to a petition by a group of scholars and practitioners in collaboration with KOSANBA, the scholarly association for the study of Haitian Vodou based at University of California Santa Barbara.\n\nVodou is popularly described as not simply a religion, but rather an experience that ties body and soul together. The concept of tying that exists in Haitian religious culture is derived from the Congolese tradition of \"kanga\", the practice of tying one's soul to something tangible. This \"tying of soul\" is evident in many Haitian Vodou practices that are still exercised today.\n\nVodouisants believe in a Supreme God called Bondye, from the French \". When it came in contact with Roman Catholicism, the Supreme Creator was associated with the Christian God, and the \"loa\" associated with the saints.\n\nSince Bondye (God) is considered unreachable, Vodouisants aim their prayers to lesser entities, the spirits known as loa, or \"mistè\". The most notable lwa include Papa Legba (guardian of the crossroads), Erzulie Freda (the spirit of love), Simbi (the spirit of rain and magicians), Kouzin Zaka (the spirit of agriculture), and The Marasa, divine twins considered to be the first children of Bondye.\n\nThese lwa can be divided into 21 nations, which include the Petro, Rada, Congo, and Nago.\n\nEach of the lwa is associated with a particular Roman Catholic saint. For example, Legba is associated with St. Anthony the Hermit, and Damballa is associated with St. Patrick.\n\nThe lwa also fall into family groups who share a surname, such as Ogou, Ezili, Azaka \nor Ghede. For instance, \"Ezili\" is a family, Ezili Danto and Ezili Freda are two individual spirits in that family. Each family is associated with a specific aspect, for instance the Ogou family are soldiers, the Ezili govern the feminine spheres of life, the Azaka govern agriculture, the Ghede govern the sphere of death and fertility.\n\nVodou's moral code focuses on the vices of dishonor and greed. There is also a notion of relative propriety—and what is appropriate to someone with Dambala Wedo as their head may be different from someone with Ogou Feray as their head. For example, one spirit is very cool and the other is very hot. Coolness overall is valued, and so is the ability and inclination to protect oneself and one's own if necessary. Love and support within the family of the Vodou society seem to be the most important considerations. Generosity in giving to the community and to the poor is also an important value. One's blessings come through the community, and one should be willing to give back. There are no \"solitaries\" in Vodou—only people separated geographically from their elders and house. A person without a relationship of some kind with elders does not practice Vodou as it is understood in Haiti and among Haitians; additionally, Haitian Vodou emphasizes the 'wholeness of being' not just with elders and the material world, but also unity with the interconnected forces of nature.\n\nThere is a diversity of practice in Vodou across the country of Haiti and the Haitian diaspora. For instance, in the north of Haiti, the \"lave tèt\" (\"head washing\") or \"kanzwe\" may be the only initiation, as it is in the Dominican Republic and Cuba, whereas in Port-au-Prince and the south they practice the \"kanzo\" rites with three grades of initiationkanzo senp, si pwen, and asogweand the latter is the most familiar mode of practice outside Haiti. Some lineages combine both, as Mambo Katherine Dunham reports from her personal experience in her book \"Island Possessed\".\n\nWhile the overall tendency in Vodou is conservative in accord with its African roots, there is no singular, definitive form, only what is right in a particular house or lineage. Small details of service and the spirits served vary from house to house, and information in books or on the internet therefore may seem contradictory. There is no central authority or \"pope\" in Haitian Vodou, since \"every mambo and houngan is the head of their own house\", as a popular Haitian saying goes. Another consideration in terms of Haitian diversity are the many sects besides the Sèvi Gine in Haiti such as the Makaya, Rara, and other secret societies, each of which has its own distinct pantheon of spirits.\n\nAccording to Vodou, the soul consists of two aspects, in a type of soul dualism: the \"gros bon ange\" (big good angel) and the \"ti bon ange\" (little good angel). The \"gros bon ange\" is the part of the soul that is essentially responsible for the basic biological functions, such as the flow of blood through the body and breathing. On the other hand, the \"ti bon ange\" is the source of personality, character and willpower. \"As the \"gros bon ange\" provides each person with the power to act, it is the \"ti bon ange\" that molds the individual sentiment within each act\". While the latter is an essential element for the survival of one's individual identity, it is not necessary to keep the body functioning properly in biological terms, and therefore a person can continue to exist without it.\n\nA Haitian Vodou temple is called a Peristil. After a day or two of preparation setting up altars at an Hounfour, ritually preparing and cooking fowl and other foods, etc., a Haitian Vodou service begins with a series of prayers and songs in French, then a litany in Haitian Creole and Langaj that goes through all the European and African saints and loa honored by the house, and then a series of verses for all the main spirits of the house. This is called the \"Priyè Gine\" or the African Prayer. After more introductory songs, beginning with saluting Hounto, the spirit of the drums, the songs for all the individual spirits are sung, starting with the Legba family through all the Rada spirits, then there is a break and the Petro part of the service begins, which ends with the songs for the Gede family.\n\nAs the songs are sung, participants believe that spirits come to visit the ceremony, by taking possession of individuals and speaking and acting through them. When a ceremony is made, only the family of those possessed is benefited. At this time it is believed that devious mambo or houngan can take away the luck of the worshippers through particular actions. For instance, if a priest asks for a drink of champagne, a wise participant refuses. Sometimes these ceremonies may include dispute among the singers as to how a hymn is to be sung. In Haiti, these Vodou ceremonies, depending on the Priest or Priestess, may be more organized. But in the United States, many vodouists and clergy take it as a sort of non-serious party or \"folly\". In a serious rite, each spirit is saluted and greeted by the initiates present and gives readings, advice, and cures to those who ask for help. Many hours later, as morning dawns, the last song is sung, the guests leave, and the exhausted hounsis, houngans, and mambos can go to sleep.\n\nVodou practitioners believe that if one follows all taboos imposed by their particular loa and is punctilious about all offerings and ceremonies, the loa will aid them. Vodou practitioners also believe that if someone ignores their loa it can result in sickness, the failure of crops, the death of relatives, and other misfortunes.\nAnimals are sometimes sacrificed in Haitian Vodou. A variety of animals are sacrificed, such as pigs, goats, chickens, and bulls.\n\"The intent and emphasis of sacrifice is not upon the death of the animal, it is upon the transfusion of its life to the loa; for the understanding is that flesh and blood are of the essence of life and vigor, and these will restore the divine energy of the god.\"\n\nOn the individual's household level, a Vodouisant or \"sèvitè\"/\"serviteur\" may have one or more tables set out for their ancestors and the spirit or spirits that they serve with pictures or statues of the spirits, perfumes, foods, and other things favored by their spirits. The most basic set up is just a white candle and a clear glass of water and perhaps flowers. On a particular spirit's day, one lights a candle and says an Our Father and Hail Mary, salutes Papa Legba and asks him to open the gate, and then one salutes and speaks to the particular spirit as an elder family member. Ancestors are approached directly, without the mediating of Papa Legba, since they are said to be \"in the blood\".\n\nIn a Vodou home, often, the only recognizable religious items are images of saints and candles with a rosary. In other homes, where people may more openly show their devotion to the spirits, noticeable items may include an altar with Catholic saints and iconographies, rosaries, bottles, jars, rattles, perfumes, oils, and dolls. Some Vodou devotees have less paraphernalia in their homes because until recently Vodou practitioners had no option but to hide their beliefs. Haiti is a rural society and the cult of ancestors guard the traditional values of the peasant class. The ancestors are linked to family life and the land. Haitian peasants serve the spirits daily and sometime gather with their extended family on special occasions for ceremonies, which may celebrate the birthday of a spirit or a particular event. In very remote areas, people may walk for days to partake in ceremonies that take place as often as several times a month. Vodou is closely tied to the division and administration of land as well as to the residential economy. The cemeteries and many crossroads are meaningful places for worship: the cemetery acts as a repository of spirits and the crossroads acts as points of access to the world of the invisible.\n\nHoungans (Male Vodou Priest) or Mambos (Female Vodou Priest) are usually people who were chosen by the dead ancestors and received the divination from the deities while he or she was possessed. His or her tendency is to do good by helping and protecting others from spells, however they sometimes use their supernatural power to hurt or kill people. They also conduct ceremonies that usually take place \"Amba Peristil\" (under a Vodou Temple). However, non-Houngan or non-Mambo as Vodouisants are not initiated, and are referred to as being \"bossale\"; it is not a requirement to be an initiate to serve one's spirits. There are clergy in Haitian Vodou whose responsibility it is to preserve the rituals and songs and maintain the relationship between the spirits and the community as a whole (though some of this is the responsibility of the whole community as well). They are entrusted with leading the service of all of the spirits of their lineage. Sometimes they are \"called\" to serve in a process called \"being reclaimed\", which they may resist at first. Below the houngans and mambos are the hounsis, who are initiates who act as assistants during ceremonies and who are dedicated to their own personal mysteries.\n\nThe \"asson\" (calabash rattle) is the symbol for one who has acquired the status of houngan or mambo (priest or priestess) in Haitian Vodou. The calabash is taken from the calabasse courante or calabasse ordinaire tree, which is associated with Danbhalah-Wédo. A houngan or mambo traditionally holds the asson in their hand, along with a clochette (bell). The asson contains stones and snake vertebrae that give it its sound. The asson is covered with a web of porcelain beads.\n\nA \"bokor\" is a sorcerer or magician who casts spells on request. They are not necessarily priests, and may be practitioners of \"darker\" things, and are often not accepted by the mambo or the houngan. \n\"Bokor\" can also be a Haitian term for a Vodou priest or other practitioner who works with both the light and dark arts of magic. The bokor, in that sense, deals in \"baka' (malevolent spirits contained in the form of various animals).\n\nPractitioners of Vodou revere death, and believe it is a great transition from one life to another, or to the afterlife. Some Vodou families believe that a person’s spirit leaves the body, but is trapped in water, over mountains, in grottoes—or anywhere else a voice may call out and echo—for one year and one day. After then, a ceremonial celebration commemorates the deceased for being released into the world to live again. In the words of Edwidge Danticat, author of \"A Year and a Day\"—an article about death in Haitian society published in the New Yorker—and a Vodou practitioner, \"The year-and-a-day commemoration is seen, in families that believe in it and practice it, as a tremendous obligation, an honorable duty, in part because it assures a transcendental continuity of the kind that has kept us Haitians, no matter where we live, linked to our ancestors for generations.\" After the soul of the deceased leaves its resting place, it can occupy trees, and even become a hushed voice on the wind. Though other Haitian and West African families believe there is an afterlife in paradise in the realm of God. \n\nThe cultural area of the Fon, Ewe, and Yoruba peoples share a common metaphysical conception of a dual cosmological divine principle consisting of Nana Buluku, the God-Creator, and the voduns(s) or God-Actor(s), daughters and sons of the Creator's twin children Mawu (goddess of the moon) and Lisa (god of the sun). The God-Creator is the cosmogonical principle and does not trifle with the mundane; the voduns(s) are the God-Actor(s) who actually govern earthly issues. The pantheon of vodoun is quite large and complex.\n\nWest African Vodun has its primary emphasis on ancestors, with each family of spirits having its own specialized priest and priestess, which are often hereditary. In many African clans, deities might include Mami Wata, who are gods and goddesses of the waters; Legba, who in some clans is virile and young in contrast to the old man form he takes in Haiti and in many parts of Togo; Gu (or Ogoun), ruling iron and smithcraft; Sakpata, who rules diseases; and many other spirits distinct in their own way to West Africa.\n\nA significant portion of Haitian Vodou often overlooked by scholars until recently is the input from the Kongo. The entire northern area of Haiti is heavily influenced by Kongo practices. In northern Haiti, it is often called the Kongo Rite or Lemba, from the Lemba rituals of the Loango area and Mayombe. In the south, Kongo influence is called Petwo (Petro). Many loa (a Kikongo term) are of Kongo origin such as Basimba belonging to the Basimba people and the Lemba.\n\nIn addition, the Vodun religion (distinct from Haitian Vodou) already existed in the United States previously to Haitian immigration, having been brought by enslaved West Africans, specifically from the Ewe, Fon, Mina, Kabaye, and Nago groups. Some of the more enduring forms survive in the Gullah Islands.\n\nEuropean colonialism, followed by totalitarian regimes in West Africa, suppressed Vodun as well as other forms of the religion. However, because the Vodun deities are born to each African clan-group, and its clergy is central to maintaining the moral, social, and political order and ancestral foundation of its villagers, it proved to be impossible to eradicate the religion.\n\nThe majority of the Africans who were brought as slaves to Haiti were from Western and Central Africa. The survival of the belief systems in the New World is remarkable, although the traditions have changed with time and have even taken on some Catholic forms of worship. Two important factors, however, characterize the uniqueness of Haitian Vodou as compared to African Vodun; the transplanted Africans of Haiti, similar to those of Cuba and Brazil, were obliged to disguise their loa or spirits as Roman Catholic saints, an element of a process called syncretism.\n\nTwo keys provisions of the Code Noir by King Louis XIV of France in 1685 severely limited the ability of enslaved Africans in Saint-Domingue to practice African religions. First, the Code Noir explicitly forbade the open practice of all African religions. Second, it forced all slaveholders to convert their slaves to Catholicism within eight days of their arrival in Saint-Domingue. Despite French efforts, enslaved Africans in Saint-Domingue were able to cultivate their own religious practices. Enslaved Africans spent their Sunday and holiday nights expressing themselves. While bodily autonomy was strictly controlled during the day at night, the enslaved Africans wielded a degree of agency. They began to continue their religious practices but also used the time to cultivate community and reconnect the fragmented pieces of their various heritages. These late night reprieves were a form of resistance against white domination and also created community cohesion between people from vastly different ethnic groups. While Catholicism was used as a tool for suppression, enslaved Haitians, partly out of necessity, would go on to incorporate aspects of Christianity into their Vodou. Médéric Louis Élie Moreau de Saint-Méry, a French observer writing in 1797, noted this religious syncretism, commenting that the Catholic-style altars and votive candles used by Africans in Haiti were meant to conceal the Africanness of the religionbut the connection goes much further than that. Vodounists superimposed Catholic saints and figures onto the Iwa/Ioa, major spirits that work as agents of the Grand Met. Some examples of major Catholic idols re-imagined as Iwa are the Virgin Mary being seen as Ezili. Saint Jacques as Ogou, and Saint Patrick as Dambala. Vodou ceremonies and rituals also incorporated some Catholic elements such as the adoption of the Catholic calendar, the use of holy water in purification rituals, singing hymns, and the introduction of Latin loanwords into Vodou lexicon.\n\nThe most historically iconic Vodou ceremony in Haitian history was the Bois Caïman ceremony of August 1791 that took place on the eve of a slave rebellion that predated the Haitian Revolution. During the ceremony the spirit Ezili Dantor possessed a priestess and received a black pig as an offering, and all those present pledged themselves to the fight for freedom. While there is debate on whether or not Bois Caiman was truly a Vodou ritual, the ceremony also served as a covert meeting to iron out details regarding the revolt. Vodou ceremonies often held a political secondary function that strengthened bonds between enslaved people while providing space for organizing within the community. Political leaders such as Boukman Dutty, a slave who helped plan the 1791 revolt, also served as religious leader, connecting Vodou spirituality with political action. Bois Caiman has often been cited as the start of the Haitian Revolution but the slave uprising had already been planned weeks in advance, proving that the thirst for freedom had always been present. The revolution would free the Haitian people from French colonial rule in 1804 and establish the first black people's republic in the history of the world and the second independent nation in the Americas. Haitian nationalists have frequently drawn inspiration by imagining their ancestors' gathering of unity and courage. Since the 1990s, some neo-evangelicals have interpreted the politico-religious ceremony at Bois Caïman to have been a pact with demons. This extremist view is not considered credible by mainstream Protestants, however conservatives such as Pat Robertson repeat the idea.\n\nOn 1 January 1804 the former slave Jean-Jaqcues Dessalines (as Jacques I) declared the independence of St. Domingue as the First Black Empire; two years later, after his assassination, it became the Republic of Haiti. This was the second nation to gain independence from European rule (after the United States), and the only state to have arisen from the liberation of slaves. No nation recognized the new state, which was instead met with isolation and boycotts. This exclusion from the global market led to major economic difficulties for the new state.\n\nMany of the leaders of the revolt disassociated themselves from Vodou. They strived to be accepted as Frenchmen and good Catholics rather than as free Haitians. Yet most practitioners of Vodou saw, and still see, no contradiction between Vodou and Catholicism, and also take part in Catholic masses.\n\nThe new Haitian state did not recognize Vodou as an official religion. In 1835, the government made practising Vodou punishable. Secret Voodoo societies therefore continued to be important. These societies also provided the poor with protection and solidarity against the exercising of power by the elite. They had their own symbols and codes.\n\nToday, Vodou is practiced not only by Haitians but by Americans and people of many other nations who have been exposed to Haitian culture. Haitian creole forms of Vodou exist in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, some of the outer islands of the Bahamas, the United States, and other places to which Haitians have immigrated. There has been a re-emergence of the Vodun traditions in the United States, maintaining the same ritual and cosmological elements as in West Africa. These and other African-diasporic religions, such as Lukumi or Regla de Ocha (also known as Santería) in Cuba, and Candomblé and Umbanda in Brazil, have evolved among descendants of transplanted Africans in the Americas.\n\nFormer president of Haiti François Duvalier (also known as Papa Doc) played a role in elevating the status of Vodou into a national doctrine. Duvalier was involved in the noirisme movement and hoped to re-value cultural practices that had their origins in Africa. Duvalier manipulated Vodou to suit his purposes throughout his Reign of Terror. He organized the Vodou priests in the countryside and had them advance his agenda, instilling fear through promoting the belief that he had supernatural powers playing into the religion's mysticism.\n\nMany Haitians involved in the practice of Vodou have been initiated as Houngans or Mambos. In January 2010, after the Haiti earthquake traditional ceremonies were organized to appease the spirits and seek the blessing of ancestors for the Haitians. Also a \"purification ceremony\" was planned for Haiti.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Haiti earthquake, there were verbal and physical attacks against vodou practitioners in Haiti perpetrated by those who felt that vodouists were partially responsible for the natural disaster. Furthermore, during a Cholera outbreak in 2010 several Vodou priests were lynched by mobs who believed them to be spreading the disease.\n\nBecause of the religious syncretism between Catholicism and Vodou, it is difficult to estimate the number of Vodouists in Haiti. The CIA currently estimates that approximately 50% of Haiti's population practices Vodou, with nearly all Vodouists participating in one of Haiti's Christian denominations.\n\nVodou has often been associated in popular culture with Satanism, witchcraft, zombies and \"voodoo dolls\". Zombie creation has been referenced within rural Haitian culture, but is not a part of Vodou. Such manifestations fall under the auspices of the \"bokor\" or sorcerer, rather than the priest of the loa. The practice of sticking pins in voodoo dolls has history in folk magic. \"Voodoo dolls\" are often associated with New Orleans Voodoo and Hoodoo as well the magical devices of the poppet and the \"nkisi\" or \"bocio\" of West and Central Africa.\n\nThe general fear of Vodou in the US can be traced back to the end of the Haitian Revolution (1791-1804). There is a legend that Haitians were able to beat the French during the Haitian Revolution because their Vodou deities made them invincible. The US, seeing the tremendous potential Vodou had for rallying its followers and inciting them to action, feared the events at Bois Caïman could spill over onto American soil. After the Haitian Revolution many Haitians fled as refugees to New Orleans. Free and enslaved Haitians who moved to New Orleans brought their religious beliefs with them and reinvigorated the Voodoo practices that were already present in the city. Eventually, Voodoo in New Orleans became hidden and the magical components were left present in the public sphere. This created what is called hoodoo in the southern part of the United States. Because hoodoo is folk magic, Voodoo and Afro-diasporic religions in the U.S. became synonymous with fraud. This is one origin of the stereotype that Haitian Vodou, New Orleans Voodoo, and hoodoo are all tricks used to make money off of the gullible.\n\nThe elites preferred to view it as folklore in an attempt to render it relatively harmless as a curiosity that might continue to inspire music and dance.\n\nFearing an uprising in opposition to the US occupation of Haiti (1915-1934), political and religious elites, along with Hollywood and the film industry, sought to trivialize the practice of Vodou. Hollywood often depicts Vodou as evil and having ties to Satanic practices in movies such as \"White Zombie\", \"The Devil's Advocate\", \"The Blair Witch Project\", \"The Serpent and the Rainbow\", \"Child's Play\", \"Live and Let Die\", and in children’s movies like \"The Princess and the Frog\", though this last example countered this trope with a kindly voodoo priestess who helps the main characters.\n\nIn 2010, a 7.0 earthquake that devastated Haiti brought negative attention to Vodou. Televangelist Pat Robertson stated that the country had cursed itself after the events at Bois Caïman, because he claimed they had engaged in Satanic practices in the ceremony preceding the Haitian Revolution. \"They were under the heel of the French, you know, Napoleon the third and whatever. And they got together and swore a pact to the devil. They said 'We will serve you if you will get us free from the prince.' True story. And so the devil said, 'Ok it's a deal.' And they kicked the French out. The Haitians revolted and got something themselves free. But ever since they have been cursed by one thing after another.\"\n\nScholarly research on Vodou and other African spiritual retentions in Haiti started in the early 20th century with chronicles such as Zora Neale Hurston's \"Tell My Horse\", amongst others. Other notable early scholars of Haitian Vodou one could cite are Milo Rigaud Alfred Metraux and Maya Deren, for example. In April 1997, thirteen scholars gathered at the University of California Santa Barbara for a colloquium on Haitian Vodou. From that meeting the \"Congress of Santa Barbara\" was created, also known as KOSANBA. These scholars felt there was a need for access to scholarly resources and course offerings studying Haitian Vodou, and pledged, \"...to create a space where scholarship on Vodou can be augmented.\" As further described in the Congress’ declaration:\n\n\"The presence, role, and importance of Vodou in Haitian history, society, and culture are unarguable, and recognizably a part of the national ethos. The impact of the religion qua spiritual and intellectual disciplines on popular national institutions, human and gender relations, the family, that plastic arts, philosophy and ethics, oral and written literature, language, popular and sacred music, science and technology and the healing arts, is indisputable. It is the belief of the Congress that Vodou plays, and shall continue to play, a major role in the grand scheme of Haitian development and in the socio-economic, political, and cultural arenas. Development, when real and successful, always comes from the modernization of ancestral traditions, anchored in the rich cultural expressions of a people.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2012, KOSANBA successfully petitioned the Library of Congress to change the terms \"voodoo\" and \"voodooism\" to the correct spelling \"Vodou\".\n\nIn the aftermath of the François Duvalier dictatorship, a number of individuals, including many houngan, sought to organize means of defense for Haitian Vodou from defamation by Christian missionaries and congregations. One of the first leading houngan to formally organize other houngan in solidarity was Wesner Morency (1959–2007), who established the Vodou Church of Haiti in 1998 (registered in 2001 by the Ministry of Justice) and the Commission Nationale pour la Structuration de Vodou (CONAVO). Another individual who has pursued the organization of houngan is Max Beauvoir, who established and heads the National Confederation of Haitian Vodou.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "24759142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24759142", "title": "Healing the centurion's servant", "text": "Healing the centurion's servant\n\nHealing the centurion's servant is one of the miracles said to have been performed by Jesus of Nazareth as related in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. The story is not recounted by either John or Mark.\n\nAccording to these accounts, a Roman centurion asked Jesus for his help because his boy servant was ill. Jesus offered to go to the centurion's house to perform a healing, but the centurion demurred and suggested that Jesus' word of authority from where he was at that moment would be sufficient. Impressed, Jesus commented approvingly of the strong religious faith displayed by the soldier and granted the request, which resulted in the servant being healed the same day.\n\nMatthew 8:5–13 (TNIV)\nLuke 7:1–10 (TNIV)\nThe story of the Centurion does not exist in the Gospel of Mark. The accepted theory is that material not in Mark but found in both Matthew and Luke came from a now lost source known as Q. This passage is an anomaly as Q is believed to have been a sayings gospel, a list of sermons and quotations from Jesus with no other material, but this story includes background details. It would also be the only miracle story that originated in Q. One possibility is that only the dialogue was in Q, and both Matthew and Luke added the background details from a shared oral history.\n\nThe Gospel of John narrates a similar account of Jesus healing the son of a royal official at Capernaum at a distance in . Some, such as in Fred Craddock in his commentary on Luke, treat them as the same miracle. However, in his analysis of Matthew, R. T. France presents linguistic arguments against the equivalence of \"pais\" and son and considers these two separate miracles. Merrill C. Tenney in his commentary on John and Orville Daniel in his Gospel harmony also consider them two different incidents.\n\nLuke 7:2 and 7:10 refer to the person to be healed as \"doulos\", unambiguously meaning \"servant\" but has the centurion himself call him \"pais\" <Stephens 1550> - which has a number of more ambiguous meanings including \"child\" (e.g., ; where it refers to a girl), \"son\" (), \"servant\" (, ), or be unclear whether son or servant is meant.\n\n"}
{"id": "24192287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24192287", "title": "International Center of Parapsychology and Scientific Research of the New Age", "text": "International Center of Parapsychology and Scientific Research of the New Age\n\nThe International Center of Parapsychology and Scientific Research of the New Age, generally known under the name of Horus (in reference to falcon-god Horus which was the emblem of the group), was a New Age-oriented new religious movement founded in France in 1989 by Marie-Thérèse Castano, and ended in April 1997. This group had about 300 members, including teachers, doctors and scientists. The community of the group was located in La Coucourde, in the Drôme department. In the 1990s, the group was often the subject of strong criticisms in the media, as former members and a 1995 report established by the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France presented it as a cult. In 1997, the founder and several followers were sentenced to prison on grounds of duty to rescue, complicity in forgery and unauthorized practice of medicine. However, the group considered to be a victim of defamation and expressed its complaints particularly through its lawyer.\n\nThe movement was founded in 1989 by Marie-Thérèse Castano (born 1945), who was widely called Maïté. She is a former trader and real estate broker who achieved some notability in the 1980s hosting a radio program about esotericism and occultism. Later, she organized conferences in which she talked about pacifism, ecology, alternative medicine, personal development, and astrology. With people who shared her opinions, she decided to found a community in La Coucourde, Drôme, which gathered approximately 100 people and some children. Created in 1992, this 40-hectare ecological farm lived in autarky. Members produced their own fruits, vegetables, cheeses, milk and raised livestock, then sold them on the market.\n\nAffirming to be in relation with higher entities, Castano said to be the reincarnation of Nefertiti. The doctrine of the group, mainly related to ecology and New Age, focused on meditation, study of Egyptian civilization, cosmic energies, astrology and telepathy. The group claimed to be able to get giant fruits and vegetables without fertilizers. Some members refused vaccinations for their children. The community's purpose was the scientific research in parapsychology and the knowledge of the laws of the nature.\n\nIn 1997, Castano publicly announced the break-up of the community.\n\nThe media criticized the group mainly on allegations of despoilment, paranoia, loss of critical thought, family breakdown, abandonment of medical treatments, refusal of vaccinations and school attendance for children. The group was also criticized for its challenge of the basic concepts of scientific medicine and false certificates of vaccination. The doctrine was sometimes considered as a potential source of nervous breakdown and attempted suicide.\n\nIn France, the group was eventually classified as a cult in the 1995 parliamentary report. In 1997, the Belgian parliamentary commission established a list of 189 movements containing the Horus community.\n\nAfter the death of two women of 82 and 54 years old respectively in July 1994 and in January 1995, Castano was indicted and jailed on 20 June 1997 for duty to rescue and illegal practice of medicine (the two dead bodies were transported to their villages where deaths were reported, then the bodies cremated). In 1998, a couple was indicted after refusing medical care for their young child, and a doctor was expelled from the General Medical Council for having issued a false certificate of vaccination. On 30 March 1999, the Tribunal correctionnel de Valence, as well as on 7 July 1999, the Court d'Appel de Grenoble, sentenced Castano and several followers to fines and prison.\n\nThese accusations were rejected by the group. After a highly critical documentary broadcast on France 2 on 4 January 1996 in \"Envoyé spécial\", members stated that the journalist had belonged to the community for two years, then accepted to produce a such documentary for 600,000 francs because of financial difficulties. Members considered they were victims of conspiracy to disclose their discoveries in agriculture, which would justify their alleged persecution, including arsons and animals killed. For example, in 1996, a teacher follower was revoked by the Ministère de l'Éducation Nationale for fear of proselytism, but in 1998 the Tribunal Administratif de Grenoble nullified this decision. After complaints by the Éducation Nationale on the grounds of inadequate education, children were subject of a special watch by the judge of Valencia, which was perceived as offensive by community's members. For her part, Castano said she did not practice medicine and did not create a school within the community.\n\nIn his 1999 book entitled \"Les radis de la colère - Le complot démasqué, pourquoi la France a-t-elle peur d'Horus?\", Horus' lawyer Jean-Pierre Joseph, rejected these accusations. Although he was just the lawyer of several members of the group, Christian Paturel also denied these criticisms and presented the group as an \"agrarian community\".\n"}
{"id": "22899542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22899542", "title": "International Swaminarayan Satsang Mandal", "text": "International Swaminarayan Satsang Mandal\n\nThe International Swaminarayan Satsang Mandal (ISSM) is a religious organisation of the Hindu faith based in USA. It comes under the Shree Laxminarayan Dev Gadi of the Shree Swaminarayan Sampraday. The organisation has temples and centres in various parts of the country as well as a temple in Chicago, Illinois (America).\n\n\"International Swaminarayan Satsang Mandal\" is a federally registered trade mark of ISSO of Chicago, Inc. in the USA. Currently, ISSM has been Associated with SS-AUSM, SS-AUSM still remains with Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Chicago (Wheeling). LNDYM Youth wing has been established under SS-AUSM in order to spread the Swaminarayan Sampraday.\n\nISSM originally had six temples under it, all of them being named \"Vadtal Dham\" after Vadtal in India, where the headquarters of the parent organisation is located. The temple in Grand Prairie is an exception, being named \"Gadhpur Dham\" after the Swaminarayan temple in Gadhada.\n\n\nSince the authoring of this article, Downey,NJ(Vadtaldhamusa), and Dallas have removed themselves from ISSM and now participate an independent to-be-named organization\n\n"}
{"id": "4200523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200523", "title": "Islam in Costa Rica", "text": "Islam in Costa Rica\n\nThe statistics for Islam in Costa Rica is around 500 families, or 0.001% of the population. There are very few Islamic organizations in San José including the Islamic Association of Costa Rica led by Secretary General Dr. Abdul Fatah Sasa, and the Centro Cultural Musulmán de Costa Rica in Alajuela led by Jenny Rashida Torres. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community only established in the country as recent as 2013.\n"}
{"id": "10302413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10302413", "title": "Israel Religious Action Center", "text": "Israel Religious Action Center\n\nThe Israel Religious Action Center (Hebrew: המרכז לפלורליזם יהודי) also known as IRAC, was established in 1987 as the public and legal advocacy arm of the Israel Movement for Progressive Judaism. It is located in Jerusalem, Israel. IRAC aims to defend equality, social justice, and religious pluralism within Israel, through the Israeli legal system, lobbying and publications. Author Elana Maryles Sztokman calls IRAC \"the preeminent civil and human rights organization in Israel,\" advocating for a broadly inclusive democracy and promoting social justice. Recent campaigns include an effort to ban gender segregation on Israeli public buses, a successful public campaign for the abolition of income guarantees to kollel students, and a lobbying campaign in defense of human rights organizations operating in Israel. Anat Hoffman, currently the executive director of IRAC, is also the director and a founding member of Neshot HaKotel, also known as \"Women of the Wall\" or WoW, an organization of women who pray at the Western Wall in an egalitarian manner. Rabbi Noa Sattath is director of IRAC. She has completed five years in that role.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47153651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47153651", "title": "Jose de Segovia (journalist)", "text": "Jose de Segovia (journalist)\n\nJose de Segovia (Madrid, 1964) is a Spanish teacher, journalist & theologian. He studied journalism at Universidad Complutense (Madrid), theology at University of Kampen (Netherlands) and Bible at The School of Biblical Studies Welwyn (England), where he became interested in the work of preacher Martyn Lloyd-Jones. de Segovia is currently leading active student groups such as European Mission Fellowship, International Fellowship of Evangelical Students and Unión Bíblica. He was also President of the Theological Commission on Spanish Evangelical Alliance between 2001 and 2015 and representative of the World Evangelical Alliance in theological dialogue with the Vatican.\n\nde Segovia has taught religious studies at the following schools.\n\n\nSpanish author and historian Cesar Vidal Manzanares wrote that \"José de Segovia Barrón write theological opinions and culture reviews in the highest professional level, lighting the topics because of its own particular deep perception of life. Reading often his articles it's a pleasure to me, because his own intellectual approach confirms that the Christian thinking does not stunt the brain but, if it's properly used, mind is actually reinforce and encouraged\".\n\n\nDuring the years de Segovia spent at the University (1983-1988) he became interested in Christian thinkers like C.S. Lewis, Francis Schaeffer and José Grau Balcells, a Spanish writer that he later call his \"spiritual father\". Historian Gabino Fernández Campos wrote that during these early years, de Segovia was collaborating for Spanish & Dutch magazines like \"Aura\", \"Panorama Evangélico\", \"Adelante\", \"Cuadernos Reforma\", \"Nederlands Dagblad\" or \"Internieuws\".\n\nThe following are de Segovia's more popular publications:\n\nde Segovia is pastor at Reformed Church in Madrid. He and his wife Anna have four children.\n"}
{"id": "40885279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40885279", "title": "Keillers Park murder", "text": "Keillers Park murder\n\nThe Keillers Park murder is a famous Swedish criminal case. It started on 23 July 1997, when the body of an unknown man was discovered in a park in the city of Gothenburg, in western Sweden. The man, who had been shot twice with a pistol, was identified two days later as Josef ben Meddour (aged 36), a homosexual and Algerian national, who had been living in Sweden for many years.\n\nAfter many months of investigation, the police were able to apprehend the two murderers. They were named as Jon Nödtveidt (aged 22), the leader of black metal band Dissection, and his friend Vlad (aged 20), an Iranian national settled in Sweden. The two men, who confessed to their crime, were eventually sentenced by a court of appeal to ten years of incarceration. \n\nNödtveidt and Vlad, who were members of Temple of the Black Light, had on several occasions discussed performing human sacrifices before they murdered Meddour. That the motive was occult-related could not however be clearly established, and the murder was described as a homophobic hate crime by the Swedish police.\n\nOn 23 July 1997, at around 4.30 pm, a sixteen-year-old boy discovered the body of a man, lying face down, at the base of an old water tower in Keillers Park, in downtown Gothenburg. Called on site, the police determined that the man had been shot twice with a pistol. The first bullet hit him in the back and went right through the heart, while the second was fired to his head as he lay on the ground. A bag and a head cap were recovered beside the body.\n\nNo identification was found on the corpse, but a female police officer recognized the man as someone who was often seen in the area of \"Svingeln square\" and who, with his curled hair and sunglasses, looked like Swedish singer Magnus Uggla. In the neighbourhood, a shop attendant told the police that the actual name of the victim was Josef and that he was often in the company of a Finnish-looking man. Thanks to this testimony, the police were able to identify Josef ben Meddour, aged 36, an Algerian national. Settled in Sweden for about ten years, Meddour was gay, and the Finnish-looking man was his boyfriend.\n\nThe police first suspected the victim's boyfriend. The head cap recovered near the body was his, he had no alibi, and the couple was known for their frequent arguments. After twelve days in custody, the boyfriend was nevertheless released, and he was later cleared of all suspicion.\n\nThe investigators then learned that on the evening of 22 July, Meddour had received the visit of militants of the GIA, an Algerian Islamic organisation. As Meddour himself was known for his opposition to the GIA, the police considered the possibility of a political assassination. Other people were interrogated, but leading to no breakthrough, and the investigators soon realised they were headed in the wrong direction.\n\nOn 15 December 1997, a 23-year-old woman entered a police station in Stockholm, the Swedish capital. She wanted to file a complaint against her boyfriend Vlad, whom she accused of beating her, and threatening to kill her. She also told the police officers present that Vlad had once confessed to her that he was, along with his friend Jon, the perpetrator of the Keillers Park murder.\n\nThe story that Vlad had told the young woman was as follows: he and Nödtveidt met Meddour in a street of Gothenburg, and invited him to follow them to Keillers Park. There, they first tried to immobilise him with an electroshock weapon (Taser), which somehow did not succeed. Meddour tried to run away, but Vlad shot him in the back with a pistol. While Meddour was lying on the ground, Vlad handed the gun to Nödtveidt, who shot a second bullet to the head.\n\nThe 23-year-old woman also told the police that she knew the whereabouts of the murder weapon. Alerted, police investigators in Gothenburg could only acknowledge that observations made on the crime scene matched the woman's account of the events. Vlad was arrested the same day at his home in Stockholm. He was found carrying a loaded 9 mm pistol. Nödtveidt was apprehended in Gothenburg on the morning of 18 December.\n\nThe two suspects at first denied any involvement in Meddour's death, but after he was remanded on probable cause, Nödtveidt eventually made a confession. His account started the night of 21 to 22 July 1997, which he spent drinking at various pubs and clubs in Gothenburg, along with Vlad and two other friends. In the early morning, the two other friends headed back home, while Nödtveidt and Vlad started roaming in the city centre. Next to a park locally known as a meeting place for gay men, they were accosted by a stranger, who at the sight of their clothes asked them if they were Satanist, and told them he wanted to learn about this cult. At first, Nödtveidt and Vlad tried to push back the unknown man, but he insisted. This was how they came to know Meddour.\n\nThe two friends eventually invited Meddour to follow them to Nödtveidt's home. While on the way, Meddour's behaviour and speech made clear he was a homosexual, which made Nödtveidt and Vlad feel angry and offended. Once they reached Nödtveidt's home, Meddour appeared scared and refused to step in. Nödtveidt and Vlad then suggested continuing their discussion about Satanism at Keillers Park. The three men hit the streets again, but before they left, Nödtveidt entered his flat to pick up the pistol and the Taser. Once at Keillers Park, Vlad took the Taser from Nödtveidt, and tried unsuccessfully to immobilise Meddour. Meddour attempted to run away, but his escape was cut short when Vlad shot a first bullet in his back, followed by a second bullet in his head.\n\nWhen faced with his contradictions, Vlad also confessed to the murder. His version of the events was very similar to Nödtveidt's, apart from one significant difference: according to him, Nödtveidt was the one who had held the gun, and who had pulled the trigger twice.\n\nThe investigation led the Gothenburg police into the world of black metal and Satanism.\n\nNödtveidt was the leader of a musical band, Dissection, that had earned some fame in the small world of early black metal, a subgenre of heavy metal characterised by the occultism and raw violence of its lyrics, and by the extreme behaviour and lifestyle of its followers. In the middle of the nineties, the brief history of black metal was already related with violent deaths.\n\nIn 1991, Per Ohlin, the Swedish singer of a Norwegian band called Mayhem, committed suicide by shooting himself in the head with a shotgun. His body was found by the band's leader, Øystein Aarseth, who instead of calling the police immediately, left to buy a disposable camera, and came back to take photographs of the corpse, eventually using the images for the band's live album \"Dawn of the Black Hearts\". Aarseth also picked up fragments of his friend's skull, which ended up on a display shelf at the \"Helvete\" record shop in Oslo.\n\nThe following year, Bård 'Faust' Eithun, a co-worker of Aarseth stabbed a homosexual man in a street of Lillehammer. The murderer later stated homophobia as the motive for his act. Aarseth himself was stabbed to death in 1993 by a Norwegian musician, Varg Vikernes, who was known for his solo project Burzum. Vikernes claims that the murder was in fact an act of self-defense, as Aarseth had allegedly planned to murder him. Vikernes – who was also accused of burning three churches - was sentenced in 1994 to 21 years behind bars.\n\nWhen the arrests were made on 15 and 18 December 1997, the police discovered satanic altars in the homes of the two suspects. A human skull was also found at Vlad's place, for which he was charged with possession of human parts. Nödtveidt and Vlad were members of a satanic organization called \"Misanthropic Luciferian Order\" (MLO), of which Vlad was one of the founders, and that, according to the police, never had more than a handful of followers.\n\nDuring their investigations, the police interrogated former members of the MLO, who described the organisation and narrated the occult ceremonies they had attended. Rituals included meditation, invocations of demons and animal sacrifices – cats, which were bought through classified ads. During the weeks that preceded the murder of Josef ben Meddour, Vlad had been more and more extremist in his speech, and the idea of performing human sacrifices, followed by a mass suicide, was discussed at length. During a meeting at Nödtveidt's place, a list of possible victims was made. It included a former follower who had defected, band members from Dissection, and even Nödtveidt's girlfriend.\n\nThese plans led to the defection of some members of the MLO, who did not want to take part in any assassination, or who feared for their own lives. As a result, when the arrests were made, the number of active members was down to three: Nödtveidt, Vlad and his girlfriend.\n\nThe motives of the murder were not made clear during the trial. Was it a satanic crime, one of the human sacrifices that the MLO members had talked about? Or was it rather a hate crime, motivated by the anger Nödtveidt and Vlad had felt when confronted with Meddour's personality? According to criminal inspector Lars Ohlin, who led the police investigation, there is no denying that Nödtveidt and Vlad's acts were made on a background of Satanism, but homophobia was also a clear factor, and the Keillers Park murder was registered as a hate crime by the Swedish police.\n\nOn 6 July 1998, Nödtveidt was sentenced by the Gothenburg district court to eight years of prison for assistance to murder and illegal possession of a firearm. Vlad was sentenced to ten years for murder, violence against his girlfriend, illegal possession of a firearm and possession of body parts. All three parties appealed to the verdict.\n\nThe Court of Appeal for Western Sweden gave its verdict on 25 September 1998. Nödtveidt was this time sentenced to ten years in prison, just as Vlad, whose sentence was confirmed.\n\nNödtveidt and Vlad were released in 2004, after spending seven years behind bars. Considering he had lived long enough, and in conformity with his satanic beliefs, Nödtveidt committed suicide in 2006. His body was found at his home, surrounded by a ring of candles, a ritual book by his side. His name was thus added to the list of violent deaths that have contributed to the legend of black metal.\n\nJosef ben Meddour's body was repatriated to Algeria. He was buried in the national capital, Algiers.\n\nNotes\nP3 dokumentär om mordet i Keillers Park\n\nOn 24 March 2013, the Swedish radio station P3 broadcast a documentary produced by Ida Lundqvist on the Keillers Park murder.\nSatanistmordet i Keillers Park\n\nAn article written by criminal inspector Lars Ohlin, who led the investigation, originally published in the book \"Nordisk kriminalkrönika 1999\". It was reproduced in issue #31/2012 of the magazine \"Veckans brott\".\nOther references\n"}
{"id": "24906066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24906066", "title": "La Vara", "text": "La Vara\n\nLa Vara was a Judeo-Spanish (Ladino) language weekly newspaper, published 1922–1948 in New York City, as a national Sephardi Jewish newspaper in the United States. It was edited by Albert Levy, a Salonican Jew, and had a circulation of 16,500 in 1928. Marc D. Angel counts it as one of the two most important such publications historically, the other being \"La America\".\n\n\"La Vara\" introduced an English-language section in 1934.\n"}
{"id": "5831683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831683", "title": "Maisir", "text": "Maisir\n\nIn Islam, gambling (), is forbidden (). \n\"Maisir\" is prohibited by Islamic law (\"shari'a\") on the grounds that \"the agreement between participants is based on immoral inducement provided by entirely wishful hopes in the participants' minds that they will gain by mere chance, with no consideration for the possibility of loss\".\n\nBoth \"qimar\" and \"maisir\" refer to games of chance, but \"qimar\" is a kind (or subset) of \"maisir\". \nAuthor Muhammad Ayub defines \"maisir\" as \"wishing something valuable with ease and without paying an equivalent compensation for it or without working for it, or without undertaking any liability against it by way of a game of chance\", Another source, Faleel Jamaldeen, defines it as \"the acquisition of wealth by chance (not by effort)\". Ayub defines \"qimar\" as \"also mean[ing] receipt of money, benefit or usufruct at the cost of others, having entitlement to that money or benefit by resorting to chance\"; Jamaldeen as \"any game of chance\".\n\nIt is stated in the Quran that games of chance, including \"maisir\", are a \"grave sin\" and \"abominations of Satan's handiwork\". It is also mentioned in ahadith.\n\n"}
{"id": "33506665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33506665", "title": "Marie Julie Jahenny", "text": "Marie Julie Jahenny\n\nMarie-Julie Jahenny (Coyault, Blain, February 12, 1850 – La Fraudais, March 4, 1941) was a Breton mystic and stigmatist.\n\nMarie-Julie Jahenny was born in a large peasant family, and later joined the Third Order of Saint Francis.\n\nDuring her life, she reported several apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Jesus Christ through which she received prophecies about the end of the world, the Great Catholic Monarch, punishment for the sins of the people, the destruction of Paris through civil war, the Three Days of Darkness, and the coming of Antichrist.\n\nFrom the age of twenty-three until her death, she bore the stigmata. According to the testimony of witnesses, she experienced miraculous Holy Communions, miraculous fasting periods to where she lived no other food but the Eucharist for several years, suffered supernatural attacks from the devil, and had the gift of prophecy and miracles.\n\nMarie-Julie predicted numerous chastisements for sin that would fall first on France then spread to the rest of the world. These include: earthquakes, unprecedented destruction through storms, failed harvests, unknown plagues that would spread rapidly plus the cures for them, a \"Blood Rain\" that would fall for seven weeks, civil war in France that apparently would be started by conspirators in the government, the persecution of the Catholic Church with the total closure of all churches and religious houses, persecution and slaughter of Christians, the destruction of Paris, a Two Day period of Darkness that would come circa a month before the Three Days of Darkness. The coming of the Great Monarch would also be announced by signs in the sky. She also had visions of the Angelic Pontiff who would reign at the same time of the Great Monarch, and that both these great leaders were destined to restore the Catholic Church. Her house has been transformed into a sanctuary, which bears her name, in Blain, near Nantes where she is buried in the cemetery.\n\nAn association called \"Le sanctuaire de Marie-Julie Jahenny\" was created and presided over by Andre, the Marquis of La Franquerie, the French monarchist propagandist (1901-1992).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9657825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657825", "title": "Mary Frances of the Five Wounds", "text": "Mary Frances of the Five Wounds\n\nMary Frances of the Five Wounds, T.O.S.F. (, 25 March 1715 – 7 October 1791), was an Italian member of the Third Order of St. Francis, who is honored as a saint in the Catholic Church.\n\nShe was born Anna Maria Gallo, the daughter of Francesco Gallo and Barbara Basinsin, in the Quartieri Spagnoli (Spanish Quarter) of Naples, a red-light district of the city, still known for its high crime. According to tradition, another saint, the Jesuit, Francis de Geronimo, predicted her future sanctity while she was still an infant. Her family was of the middle class, but her father, a weaver of gold lace, was a very violent man, who regularly abused his family physically, often severely.\n\nWhen Gallo was sixteen, her father attempted to force her into a marriage with a young man of means who was seeking her hand. She refused and asked to join the Franciscan Third Order, through which she could live out a religious life in the family home. The friars of Naples were part of the reform of St. Peter of Alcantara, and they and the tertiaries under their rule were known for the strictness of their lives. Through the intervention of a friar, Father Theophilus, permission to enter the Order was eventually granted by her father.\n\nGallo was received into the Order on 8 September 1731 and began wearing the religious habit of the Order, which was an uncommon practice by that era. She also adopted the use of the religious name she took upon being received into the Order, out of her devotion to the Blessed Mother, St. Francis of Assisi and the Passion of Christ. She continued to live in the family home to serve God as a consecrated virgin, as was customary in those days.\n\nShe took as her spiritual director, the Franciscan friar, John Joseph of the Cross, while her confessor was the Barnabite priest, Francis Xavier Bianchi, and she began to be known among her neighbors for her work of charity, helping the poor of the sector. She was a person of deep prayer, often spending long hours in meditation.\n\nIn 1753 she joined with another Franciscan tertiary, known only as Maria Felice, and they moved into a small palace owned by a priest, Giovanni Pessiri, who became their spiritual director. The two women occupied the second floor, sleeping on the floor, and the priest the floor above. She is said to have received the wounds of the stigmata while living there and suffered patiently many physical afflictions and spiritual trials. She would wear gloves to cover the marks on her hands, while she did her work. She is also said to have had visions of Saint Raphael the Archangel, who healed her of several afflictions.\n\nMary Frances was buried in the Franciscan in Naples, which she attended during her life. This church also contains the tomb of John Joseph, now also declared a saint.\n\nMary Frances was declared Venerable by Pope Pius VII, on 18 May 1803. She was beatified by Pope Gregory XVI on 12 November 1843. She was soon canonized by Pope Pius IX on 29 June 1867. Her feast day is celebrated on 6 October. She was the first woman from Naples to have been declared a saint by the Catholic Church.\n\nDevotion to Mary Frances has long continued to be strong in the neighborhood where she lived, and of which she is the patron saint. The residents credit her intercession with the little damage the sector endured during World War II, when over 100 bombs were dropped on it. Her home has been preserved as a chapel and museum.\n\nPope Pius IX, who canonized Mary Frances, declared her to be a patroness of expectant mothers and of women having difficulty conceiving. She is also the patroness of the Gallo World Family Foundation, which was founded to promote the development of Judeo-Christian values in the betterment of the world by members of the Gallo family scattered worldwide.\n\nOn 6 October 2001, her remains were transferred from the Church of Santa Lucia to the house where she had spent the last half of her life. It is now the . It is still a common practice for expectant mothers to go there to be blessed with her relic. Many votive offerings from mothers who credit her with their successful deliveries are displayed in the sanctuary.\n\nIn Scotland, the Venerable Margaret Sinclair took the religious name Sister Mary Francis of the Five Wounds during her short-lived vocation in London. Her major shrine in St Patrick's Church, Edinburgh has been given status by both Pope Paul VI declaration, and Pope John Paul II description of The Blessed Margaret as being \"one of God’s little ones who, through her very simplicity, was touched by God with the strength of real holiness of life.\"\n"}
{"id": "23790997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23790997", "title": "Maxima auspicia", "text": "Maxima auspicia\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and law, the auspicia maxima (also \"maxima auspicia\") were the \"greatest auspices,\" conferred on senior magistrates who held \"imperium\": \"\"auspicium\" and \"imperium\" were the twin pillars of the magistrate's power\" \"(potestas\"). Only magistrates who had \"auspicia maxima\" were entitled to begin a war and, if victorious, to celebrate a triumph. The \"auspicia maxima\" were reserved primarily for consuls and censors, but these were two different types of auspices. Consuls and censors were not colleagues, and the censors lacked military auspices \"(auspicia militiae)\". Praetors, however, held a form of \"auspicia maxima\" and could also lead an army, though their \"imperium\" was lesser than that of the consuls.\n"}
{"id": "47753662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47753662", "title": "Mipsterz", "text": "Mipsterz\n\nMipsterz, stylized as #MIPSTERZ (short for Muslim Hipsters), are an international group of primarily hipster Muslims (loosely defined, and not limited to Millennials) who have evolving views on religion, identity, community, politics, and culture. Prior to 2012, the term \"#MIPSTERZ\" did not exist, though the application of \"Muslim Hipsters\" had been used. Abbas Rattani is credited as the creator of the formal #MIPSTERZ movement, culture, community, and identity as well as creating the Google Group and Facebook page bearing the same name. Other known #MIPSTERZ include tech entrepreneur Layla Shaikley, Riz Ahmed, Hasan Minhaj, Reza Aslan, and Tariq Ramadan, Omid Safi, and Jalal al-din Rumi. \n\n\"The 'Mipsterz' first began as a satirical, thought-generating jab at corporate culture and evolved into a limitless collective that empowers individuals to find coolness in themselves and share their God-given gifts with all. You see, hipster rule number 1: never self-identify as a hipster—namely, because these labels are a social constructed means of typecasting limitless beings. But let’s be honest, (and this is where the tongue-in-cheek ethos of Mipsterz enters), you are a hipster.\"\"\n\nThe group has published various videos, including a controversial music video for Jay-Z's \"Somewhere in America,\" as well asl original programming such as \"Hot Sauce x White Sauce\", the concert series \"SUNDAYS/cool,\"\"\" an online magazine: \"The Field Between,\" and the fashion-activism project BOY/BYE.\n"}
{"id": "4643575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4643575", "title": "Misl", "text": "Misl\n\nMisl generally refers to the sovereign states of the Sikh Confederacy, that rose during the 18th century in the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent after the collapse of the Mughal Empire.\n\nThe \"misls\" formed a commonwealth that was described by Antoine Polier as an \"aristocratic republic\". Although the misls were unequal in strength, and each misl attempted to expand its territory and access to resources at the expense of others, they acted in unison in relation to other states. The misls held biannual meetings of their legislature, the Sarbat Khalsa in Amritsar.\n\nIn order to withstand the persecution of Shah Jahan and other Mughal rulers, several of the later Sikh Gurus established military forces and fought the Mughal Empire and Hindu hill chiefs in the early and middle Mughal-Sikh Wars. Banda Singh Bahadur continued Sikh resistance to the Mughal Empire until his defeat at the Battle of Gurdas Nangal.\n\nFor several years Sikhs found refuge in the jungles and the Himalayan foothills until they organized themselves into military bands known as \"jathas\".\n\nEach Misl was made up of members of soldiers, whose loyalty was given to the Misl's leader. A Misl could be composed of a few hundred to tens of thousands soldiers. Any soldier was free to join whichever Misl he wished, and was free to cancel his membership of the Misl to whom he belonged. He could, if he wanted, cancel his membership of his old Misl and join another. The Barons would allow their armies to combine or coordinate their defences together against a hostile force if ordered by the Misldar Supreme Commander. These orders were only issued in military matters affecting the whole Sikh community. These orders would normally be related to defense against external threats, such as Afghan military attacks. The profits of a fighting action were divided by the misls to individuals based on the service rendered after the conflict using the sardari system.\n\nThe Sikh Confederacy is a description of the political structure, of how all the Barons' Kingdoms interacted with each other politically together in Punjab. Although misls varied in strength, the use of primarily light cavalry with a smaller amount heavy cavalry was uniform throughout all of the Sikh misls. Cavalrymen in a misl were required to supply their own horses and equipment. A standard cavalryman was armed with a spear, matchlock, and scimitar. How the armies of the Sikh misls received payment varied with the leadership of each misl. The most prevalent system of payment was the 'Fasalandari' system; soldiers would receive payment every six months at the end of a harvest.\n\nFauja Singh considers the Sikh misls to be guerrilla armies, although he notes that the Sikh misls generally had greater numbers and a larger number of artillery pieces than a guerrilla army would. The misls were primarily cavalry based armies and employed less artillery than Mughal or Maratha armies. The misls adapted their tactics to their strength in cavalry and weakness in artillery and avoided pitched battles. Misls organized their armies around bodies of horsemen and their units fought battles in a series of skirmishes, a tactic which gave them an advantage over fighting pitched battles. Bodies of cavalry would attack a position, retreat, reload their muskets, and return to attack it again. The tactics used by misl field armies include flanking an enemy, obstructing river passages, cutting off a unit from its supplies, intercepting messengers, attacking isolated units like foraging parties, employing hit-and-run tactics, overrunning camps, and attacking baggage trains. To fight large armies the misl would completely evacuate the areas in front of the enemy's marching route but follow in the rear of the opposition and reconquer areas the enemy had just captured, threaten agents of the enemy with retribution, and sweep over the countryside in the wake of the enemy's withdrawal.\n\nThe \"Running Skirmish\" was a tactic unique to the Sikh cavalrymen which was notable for its effectiveness and the high degree of skill required to execute it. George Thomas and George Forster, contemporary writers who witnessed it described its use separately in their accounts of the military of the Sikhs. George Forster noted:\n\n\"A party from forty to fifty, advance in a quick pace to a distance of carbine shot from the enemy and then, that the fire may be given with the greatest certainty, the horses are drawn up and their pieces discharged, when speedily, retiring about a 100 paces, they load and repeat the same mode of annoying the enemy. Their horses have been so expertly trained to a performance of this operation that on receiving a stroke of hand, they stop from a full canter.\"\n\nThe Sikh Misls had four different classes of administrative divisions. The patadari, misaldari, tabadari, and jagirdari were the different systems of land tenure used by the misls, and land granted by the misl left the responsibility of establishing law and order to the owner of the land. The land under the direct administration of the chief of the misl was known as the \"sardari\" and the tabadari and jagirdari systems used land directly given by the chief from the sardari. The patadari and misaldari systems formed the basis of a misl, while tabadari and jagirdari lands would only be created after large acquisitions of land. The type of system that was used in an area depended on the importance of the chief sardar of the area to the rest of the misl.\n\nThe \"Patadari system\" affected newly annexed territories and was the original method used by the misls in administrating land. The patadari system relied on the cooperation of surkundas, the rank of a leader of a small party of cavalrymen. The chief of the misl would take his/her portion and divide the other parcels among his Sardars proportional to the number of cavalrymen they had contributed to the misl. The Sardars would then divide their parcels among their Surkundas, and then the Surkundas subdivided the land they received among their individual cavalrymen. The Surkundas receiving parcels of land with settlements were required to fortify them and establish fines and laws for their zamindars and ryots. Parcels of land in the patadari system could not be sold, but could be given to relatives in an inheritance. The soldiers who received parcels from the Patadari system held their land in complete freedom.\n\nThe \"Misaldari system\" applied to sardars with a small number of cavalrymen as well as independent bodies of cavalrymen who voluntarily attached themselves to a misl. They kept the lands they held before joining the misl as an allotment for their cooperation with the misl. The leaders of these groups, called misaldars, could transfer their allegiance and land to another misl without punishment.\n\nThe \"Tabadari system\" referred to land under the control of a misl's tabadars. Tabadars served a similar function to retainers in Europe. They were required to serve as cavalrymen to the misl and were subservient to the misl's leader. Although tabadars received their land as a reward, their ownership was subject entirely on the misl's leader. The tabadari grants were only hereditary on the choice of the chief of the misl.\n\nThe \"Jagirdari system\" used the grant of jagirs by the chief of the misl. Jagirs were given by the chief of the misl to relations, dependents, and people who \"deserved well\". The owners of jagirs were subservient to the chief of the misl as their ownership was subject his/her needs. Like the Tabadars, jagirdars were subject to personal service when the chief of the misl requested. However, because jagirs entailed more land and profit, they were required to use the money generated by their jagirs to equip and mount a quota of cavalrymen depending on the size of their jagir. Jagirdari grants were hereditary in practice but a misl's chief could revoke the rights of the heir. Upon the death of the owner of a tabadari or jagadari grant, the land would revert to direct control of the chief (sardari).\n\nThe two main divisions in territory between the misls were between those who were in the Malwa region and those who were in the Majha region. While eleven of the misls were north of the Sutlej river, one, the Phulkian Misl was south of the Sutlej. The Sikhs north of the Sutlej river were known as the Majha Sikhs while the Sikhs that lived south of the Sutlej river were known as the Malwa Sikhs. In the smaller territories were the Dhanigeb Singhs in the Sind Sagar Doab, the Gujrat Singhs in the Jech Doab, the Dharpi Singhs in the Rechna Doab, and the Doaba Singhs in the Jalandhar Doab.\n\n"}
{"id": "347105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347105", "title": "Mother Teresa", "text": "Mother Teresa\n\nMother Teresa, known in the Roman Catholic Church as Saint Teresa of Calcutta (born Anjezë Gonxhe Bojaxhiu, ; 26 August 1910 – 5 September 1997), was an Albanian-Indian Roman Catholic nun and missionary. She was born in Skopje (now the capital of Macedonia), then part of the Kosovo Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire. After living in Macedonia for eighteen years she moved to Ireland and then to India, where she lived for most of her life.\n\nIn 1950 Teresa founded the Missionaries of Charity, a Roman Catholic religious congregation which had over 4,500 sisters and was active in 133 countries in 2012. The congregation manages homes for people dying of HIV/AIDS, leprosy and tuberculosis; soup kitchens; dispensaries and mobile clinics; children's- and family-counselling programmes; orphanages, and schools. Members, who take vows of chastity, poverty, and obedience, also profess a fourth vow: to give \"wholehearted free service to the poorest of the poor\".\n\nTeresa received a number of honours, including the 1962 Ramon Magsaysay Peace Prize and 1979 Nobel Peace Prize. She was canonised (recognised by the church as a saint) on 4 September 2016, and the anniversary of her death (5 September) is her feast day.\n\nA controversial figure during her life and after her death, Teresa was admired by many for her charitable work. She was praised and criticised for her opposition to abortion, and criticised for poor conditions in her houses for the dying. Her authorised biography was written by Navin Chawla and published in 1992, and she has been the subject of films and other books. On September 6, 2017, Teresa was named co-patron of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Calcutta, alongside St. Francis Xavier.\n\nTeresa was born Anjezë Gonxhe (or Gonxha) Bojaxhiu (; \"Anjezë\" is a cognate of \"Agnes\"; \"Gonxhe\" means \"rosebud\" or \"little flower\" in Albanian) on 26 August 1910 into a Kosovar Albanian family in Skopje (now the capital of the Republic of Macedonia), Ottoman Empire. She was baptized in Skopje, the day after her birth. She later considered 27 August, the day she was baptised, her \"true birthday\".\n\nShe was the youngest child of Nikollë and Dranafile Bojaxhiu (Bernai). Her father, who was involved in Albanian-community politics in Macedonia, died in 1919 when she was eight years old. He may have been from Prizren, Kosovo, and her mother may have been from a village near Gjakova.\n\nAccording to a biography by Joan Graff Clucas, during her early years Teresa was fascinated by stories of the lives of missionaries and their service in Bengal; by age 12, she was convinced that she should commit herself to religious life. Her resolve strengthened on 15 August 1928 as she prayed at the shrine of the Black Madonna of Vitina-Letnice, where she often went on pilgrimages.\n\nTeresa left home in 1928 at age 18 to join the Sisters of Loreto at Loreto Abbey in Rathfarnham, Ireland, to learn English with the view of becoming a missionary; English was the language of instruction of the Sisters of Loreto in India. She never saw her mother or her sister again. Her family lived in Skopje until 1934, when they moved to Tirana.\nShe arrived in India in 1929 and began her novitiate in Darjeeling, in the lower Himalayas, where she learnt Bengali and taught at St. Teresa's School near her convent. Teresa took her first religious vows on 24 May 1931. She chose to be named after Thérèse de Lisieux, the patron saint of missionaries; because a nun in the convent had already chosen that name, Agnes opted for its Spanish spelling (Teresa).\n\nTeresa took her solemn vows on 14 May 1937 while she was a teacher at the Loreto convent school in Entally, eastern Calcutta. She served there for nearly twenty years, and was appointed its headmistress in 1944. Although Teresa enjoyed teaching at the school, she was increasingly disturbed by the poverty surrounding her in Calcutta. The Bengal famine of 1943 brought misery and death to the city, and the August 1946 Direct Action Day began a period of Muslim-Hindu violence.\n\nOn 10 September 1946, Teresa experienced what she later described as \"the call within the call\" when she travelled by train to the Loreto convent in Darjeeling from Calcutta for her annual retreat. \"I was to leave the convent and help the poor while living among them. It was an order. To fail would have been to break the faith.\" Joseph Langford later wrote, \"Though no one knew it at the time, Sister Teresa had just become \"Mother\" Teresa\".\n\nShe began missionary work with the poor in 1948, replacing her traditional Loreto habit with a simple, white cotton sari with a blue border. Teresa adopted Indian citizenship, spent several months in Patna to receive basic medical training at Holy Family Hospital and ventured into the slums. She founded a school in Motijhil, Kolkata, before she began tending to the poor and hungry. At the beginning of 1949 Teresa was joined in her effort by a group of young women, and she laid the foundation for a new religious community helping the \"poorest among the poor\".\n\nHer efforts quickly caught the attention of Indian officials, including the prime minister. Teresa wrote in her diary that her first year was fraught with difficulty. With no income, she begged for food and supplies and experienced doubt, loneliness and the temptation to return to the comfort of convent life during these early months:\n\nOn 7 October 1950, Teresa received Vatican permission for the diocesan congregation which would become the Missionaries of Charity. In her words, it would care for \"the hungry, the naked, the homeless, the crippled, the blind, the lepers, all those people who feel unwanted, unloved, uncared for throughout society, people that have become a burden to the society and are shunned by everyone\". By 1997 the 13-member Calcutta congregation had grown to more than 4,000 sisters who managed orphanages, AIDS hospices and charity centres worldwide, caring for refugees, the blind, disabled, aged, alcoholics, the poor and homeless and victims of floods, epidemics and famine.\n\nIn 1952, Teresa opened her first hospice with help from Calcutta officials. She converted an abandoned Hindu temple into the Kalighat Home for the Dying, free for the poor, and renamed it Kalighat, the Home of the Pure Heart (Nirmal Hriday). Those brought to the home received medical attention and the opportunity to die with dignity in accordance with their faith: Muslims were read the Quran, Hindus received water from the Ganges, and Catholics received extreme unction. \"A beautiful death\", Teresa said, \"is for people who lived like animals to die like angels—loved and wanted.\"\nShe opened a hospice for those with leprosy, calling it Shanti Nagar (City of Peace). The Missionaries of Charity established leprosy-outreach clinics throughout Calcutta, providing medication, dressings and food. The Missionaries of Charity took in an increasing number of homeless children; in 1955 Teresa opened Nirmala Shishu Bhavan, the Children's Home of the Immaculate Heart, as a haven for orphans and homeless youth.\n\nThe congregation began to attract recruits and donations, and by the 1960s it had opened hospices, orphanages and leper houses throughout India. Teresa then expanded the congregation abroad, opening a house in Venezuela in 1965 with five sisters. Houses followed in Italy (Rome), Tanzania and Austria in 1968, and during the 1970s the congregation opened houses and foundations in the United States and dozens of countries in Asia, Africa and Europe.\n\nThe Missionaries of Charity Brothers was founded in 1963, and a contemplative branch of the Sisters followed in 1976. Lay Catholics and non-Catholics were enrolled in the Co-Workers of Mother Teresa, the Sick and Suffering Co-Workers, and the Lay Missionaries of Charity. Responding to requests by many priests, in 1981 Mother Teresa founded the Corpus Christi Movement for Priests and (with priest Joseph Langford) the Missionaries of Charity Fathers in 1984 to combine the vocational aims of the Missionaries of Charity with the resources of the priesthood. By 2007 the Missionaries of Charity numbered about 450 brothers and 5,000 sisters worldwide, operating 600 missions, schools and shelters in 120 countries.\n\nTeresa said, \"By blood, I am Albanian. By citizenship, an Indian. By faith, I am a Catholic nun. As to my calling, I belong to the world. As to my heart, I belong entirely to the Heart of Jesus.\" Fluent in five languages – Bengali, Albanian, Serbian, English and Hindi – she made occasional trips outside India for humanitarian reasons.\n\nIn 1982, at the height of the Siege of Beirut, Teresa rescued 37 children trapped in a front-line hospital by brokering a temporary cease-fire between the Israeli army and Palestinian guerrillas. Accompanied by Red Cross workers, she travelled through the war zone to the hospital to evacuate the young patients.\n\nWhen Eastern Europe experienced increased openness in the late 1980s, Teresa expanded her efforts to Communist countries which had rejected the Missionaries of Charity. She began dozens of projects, undeterred by criticism of her stands against abortion and divorce: \"No matter who says what, you should accept it with a smile and do your own work.\" She visited Armenia after the 1988 earthquake and met with Nikolai Ryzhkov, Chairman of the Council of Ministers.\n\nTeresa travelled to assist the hungry in Ethiopia, radiation victims at Chernobyl and earthquake victims in Armenia. In 1991 she returned to Albania for the first time, opening a Missionaries of Charity Brothers home in Tirana.\n\nBy 1996, Teresa operated 517 missions in over 100 countries. Her Missionaries of Charity grew from twelve to thousands, serving the \"poorest of the poor\" in 450 centres worldwide. The first Missionaries of Charity home in the United States was established in the South Bronx area of New York City, and by 1984 the congregation operated 19 establishments throughout the country.\n\nTeresa had a heart attack in Rome in 1983 while she was visiting Pope John Paul II. Following a second attack in 1989, she received an artificial pacemaker. In 1991, after a bout of pneumonia in Mexico, she had additional heart problems. Although Teresa offered to resign as head of the Missionaries of Charity, in a secret ballot the sisters of the congregation voted for her to stay and she agreed to continue.\n\nIn April 1996 she fell, breaking her collarbone, and four months later she had malaria and heart failure. Although Teresa had heart surgery, her health was clearly declining. According to Archbishop of Calcutta Henry Sebastian D'Souza, he ordered a priest to perform an exorcism (with her permission) when she was first hospitalised with cardiac problems because he thought she might be under attack by the devil.\n\nOn 13 March 1997 Teresa resigned as head of the Missionaries of Charity, and she died on 5 September. At the time of her death, the Missionaries of Charity had over 4,000 sisters and an associated brotherhood of 300 members operating 610 missions in 123 countries. These included hospices and homes for people with HIV/AIDS, leprosy and tuberculosis, soup kitchens, children's- and family-counselling programmes, orphanages and schools. The Missionaries of Charity were aided by co-workers numbering over one million by the 1990s.\n\nTeresa lay in repose in St Thomas, Calcutta, for a week before her funeral. She received a state funeral from the Indian government in gratitude for her service to the poor of all religions in the country. Assisted by five priests, the last rites was performed by Cardinal Secretary of State and Pope's representative, Angelo Sodano. Teresa's death was mourned in the secular and religious communities. Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif called her \"a rare and unique individual who lived long for higher purposes. Her life-long devotion to the care of the poor, the sick, and the disadvantaged was one of the highest examples of service to our humanity.\" According to former U.N. Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, \"She is the United Nations. She is peace in the world.\"\n\nTeresa was first recognised by the Indian government more than a third of a century earlier, receiving the Padma Shri in 1962 and the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in 1969. She later received other Indian awards, including the Bharat Ratna (India's highest civilian award) in 1980. Teresa's official biography, by Navin Chawla, was published in 1992. In Kolkata, she is worshipped as a goddess by some Hindus.\n\nTo commemorate the 100th anniversary of her birth, the government of India issued a special 5 coin (the amount of money Teresa had when she arrived in India) on 28 August 2010. President Pratibha Patil said, \"Clad in a white sari with a blue border, she and the sisters of Missionaries of Charity became a symbol of hope to many – the aged, the destitute, the unemployed, the diseased, the terminally ill, and those abandoned by their families.\"\n\nIndian views of Teresa are not uniformly favourable. Aroup Chatterjee, a physician born and raised in Calcutta who was an activist in the city's slums for years around 1980 before moving to the UK, said that he \"never even saw any nuns in those slums\". His research, involving more than 100 interviews with volunteers, nuns and others familiar with the Missionaries of Charity, was described in a 2003 book critical of Teresa. Chatterjee criticized her for promoting a \"cult of suffering\" and a distorted, negative image of Calcutta, exaggerating work done by her mission and misusing funds and privileges at her disposal. According to him, some of the hygiene problems he had criticized (needle reuse, for example) improved after Teresa's death in 1997.\n\nBikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, mayor of Kolkata from 2005 to 2010, said that \"she had no significant impact on the poor of this city\", glorified illness instead of treating it and misrepresented the city: \"No doubt there was poverty in Calcutta, but it was never a city of lepers and beggars, as Mother Teresa presented it.\" On the Hindu right, the Bharatiya Janata Party clashed with Teresa over the Christian Dalits but praised her in death and sent a representative to her funeral. Vishwa Hindu Parishad, however, opposed the government decision to grant her a state funeral. Secretary Giriraj Kishore said that \"her first duty was to the Church and social service was incidental\", accusing her of favouring Christians and conducting \"secret baptisms\" of the dying. In a front-page tribute, the Indian fortnightly \"Frontline\" dismissed the charges as \"patently false\" and said that they had \"made no impact on the public perception of her work, especially in Calcutta\". Praising her \"selfless caring\", energy and bravery, the author of the tribute criticised Teresa's public campaign against abortion and her claim to be non-political.\n\nIn February 2015 Mohan Bhagwat, leader of the Hindu right-wing organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, said that Teresa's objective was \"to convert the person, who was being served, into a Christian\". Former RSS spokesperson M. G. Vaidhya supported Bhagwat's assessment, and the organisation accused the media of \"distorting facts about Bhagwat's remarks\". Trinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien, CPI leader Atul Anjan and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal protested Bhagwat's statement.\n\nTeresa received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Peace and International Understanding, given for work in South or East Asia, in 1962. According to its citation, \"The Board of Trustees recognises her merciful cognisance of the abject poor of a foreign land, in whose service she has led a new congregation\". By the early 1970s, she was an international celebrity. Teresa's fame may be partially attributed to Malcolm Muggeridge's 1969 documentary, \"Something Beautiful for God\", and his 1971 book of the same name. Muggeridge was undergoing a spiritual journey of his own at the time. During filming, footage shot in poor lighting (particularly at the Home for the Dying) was thought unlikely to be usable by the crew. In England, the footage was found to be extremely well-lit and Muggeridge called it a miracle of \"divine light\" from Teresa. Other crew members said that it was due to a new type of ultra-sensitive Kodak film. Muggeridge later converted to Catholicism.\n\nAround this time, the Catholic world began to honour Teresa publicly. Pope Paul VI gave her the inaugural Pope John XXIII Peace Prize in 1971, commending her work with the poor, display of Christian charity and efforts for peace, and she received the Pacem in Terris Award in 1976. After her death, Teresa progressed rapidly on the road to sainthood.\n\nShe was honoured by governments and civilian organisations, and appointed an honorary Companion of the Order of Australia in 1982 \"for service to the community of Australia and humanity at large\". The United Kingdom and the United States bestowed a number of awards, culminating in the Order of Merit in 1983 and honorary citizenship of the United States on 16 November 1996. Teresa's Albanian homeland gave her the Golden Honour of the Nation in 1994, but her acceptance of this and the Haitian Legion of Honour was controversial. Teresa was criticised for implicitly supporting the Duvaliers and corrupt businessmen such as Charles Keating and Robert Maxwell; she wrote to the judge of Keating's trial, requesting clemency.\n\nUniversities in India and the West granted her honorary degrees. Other civilian awards included the Balzan Prize for promoting humanity, peace and brotherhood among peoples (1978) and the Albert Schweitzer International Prize (1975). In April 1976 Teresa visited the University of Scranton in northeastern Pennsylvania, where she received the La Storta Medal for Human Service from university president William J. Byron. She challenged an audience of 4,500 to \"know poor people in your own home and local neighbourhood\", feeding others or simply spreading joy and love, and continued: \"The poor will help us grow in sanctity, for they are Christ in the guise of distress\". In August 1987 Teresa received an honorary doctor of social science degree, in recognition of her service and her ministry to help the destitute and sick, from the university. She spoke to over 4,000 students and members of the Diocese of Scranton about her service to the \"poorest of the poor\", telling them to \"do small things with great love\".\nIn 1979, Teresa received the Nobel Peace Prize \"for work undertaken in the struggle to overcome poverty and distress, which also constitutes a threat to peace\". She refused the conventional ceremonial banquet for laureates, asking that its $192,000 cost be given to the poor in India and saying that earthly rewards were important only if they helped her to help the world's needy. When Teresa received the prize she was asked, \"What can we do to promote world peace?\" She answered, \"Go home and love your family.\" Building on this theme in her Nobel lecture, she said: \"Around the world, not only in the poor countries, but I found the poverty of the West so much more difficult to remove. When I pick up a person from the street, hungry, I give him a plate of rice, a piece of bread, I have satisfied. I have removed that hunger. But a person that is shut out, that feels unwanted, unloved, terrified, the person that has been thrown out from society—that poverty is so hurtable and so much, and I find that very difficult.\" Teresa singled out abortion as \"the greatest destroyer of peace today. Because if a mother can kill her own child—what is left for me to kill you and you kill me—there is nothing between.\"\n\nBarbara Smoker of the secular humanist magazine \"The Freethinker\" criticised Teresa after the Peace Prize award, saying that her promotion of Catholic moral teachings on abortion and contraception diverted funds from effective methods to solve India's problems. At the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, Teresa said: \"Yet we can destroy this gift of motherhood, especially by the evil of abortion, but also by thinking that other things like jobs or positions are more important than loving.\"\n\nDuring her lifetime Teresa was among the top 10 women in the annual Gallup's most admired man and woman poll 18 times, finishing first several times in the 1980s and 1990s. In 1999 she headed Gallup's List of Most Widely Admired People of the 20th Century, out-polling all other volunteered answers by a wide margin, and was first in all major demographic categories except the very young.\n\nAccording to a paper by Canadian academics Serge Larivée, Geneviève Chénard and Carole Sénéchal, Teresa's clinics received millions of dollars in donations but lacked medical care, systematic diagnosis, necessary nutrition and sufficient analgesics for those in pain; in the opinion of the three academics, \"Mother Teresa believed the sick must suffer like Christ on the cross\". It was said that the additional money might have transformed the health of the city's poor by creating advanced palliative care facilities. \n\nOne of Teresa's most outspoken critics was English journalist, literary critic and antitheist Christopher Hitchens, host of the documentary Hell's Angel (1994) and author of the essay \"\" (1995) who wrote in a 2003 article: \"This returns us to the medieval corruption of the church, which sold indulgences to the rich while preaching hellfire and continence to the poor. [Mother Teresa] was not a friend of the poor. She was a friend of \"poverty\". She said that suffering was a gift from God. She spent her life opposing the only known cure for poverty, which is the empowerment of women and the emancipation of them from a livestock version of compulsory reproduction.\" He accused her of hypocrisy for choosing advanced treatment for her heart condition. Hitchens said that \"her intention was not to help people\", and that she lied to donors about how their contributions were used. \"It was by talking to her that I discovered, and she assured me, that she wasn't working to alleviate poverty\", he said, \"She was working to expand the number of Catholics. She said, 'I'm not a social worker. I don't do it for this reason. I do it for Christ. I do it for the church.\n\nAbortion-rights groups criticised Teresa's stance on abortion.\n\nAnalysing her deeds and achievements, Pope John Paul II said: \"Where did Mother Teresa find the strength and perseverance to place herself completely at the service of others? She found it in prayer and in the silent contemplation of Jesus Christ, his Holy Face, his Sacred Heart.\" Privately, Teresa experienced doubts and struggle in her religious beliefs which lasted nearly 50 years (until the end of her life); according to her postulator, Brian Kolodiejchuk, \"She felt no presence of God whatsoever ... in her heart or in the eucharist\". Teresa expressed grave doubts about God's existence and pain over her lack of faith: \n\nKolodiejchuk (the official responsible for gathering evidence for her canonisation) thought that her unhappiness might be misinterpreted by some, but her faith that God was working through her was undiminished; although she pined for lost closeness to God, she did not question his existence. Teresa may have experienced something similar to Jesus, who said when he was crucified: \"Eli Eli lama sabachthani?\" (\"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?\") Kolodiejchuk drew a comparison with the 16th-century mystic John of the Cross, who coined the phrase \"Dark Night of the Soul\". Other saints (including Teresa's namesake Thérèse of Lisieux, who called it a \"night of nothingness\") had similar experiences of spiritual dryness. According to James Langford, these doubts were typical and would not be an impediment to canonisation.\n\nAfter ten years of doubt, Teresa described a brief period of renewed faith. After Pope Pius XII's death in 1958, while she prayed for him at a requiem mass, she was relieved of \"the long darkness: that strange suffering.\" However, five weeks later her spiritual dryness returned.\n\nTeresa wrote many letters to her confessors and superiors over a 66-year period, most notably to Calcutta Archbishop Ferdinand Perier and Jesuit priest Celeste van Exem (her spiritual advisor since the formation of the Missionaries of Charity). She requested that her letters be destroyed, concerned that \"people will think more of me—less of Jesus.\"\n\nHowever, the correspondence has been compiled in \"Mother Teresa: Come Be My Light\". Teresa wrote to spiritual confidant Michael van der Peet, \"Jesus has a very special love for you. [But] as for me, the silence and the emptiness is so great, that I look and do not see—listen and do not hear—the tongue moves [in prayer] but does not speak ... I want you to pray for me—that I let Him have [a] free hand.\"\n\nIn \"Deus caritas est\" (his first encyclical), Pope Benedict XVI mentioned Teresa three times and used her life to clarify one of the encyclical's main points: \"In the example of Blessed Teresa of Calcutta we have a clear illustration of the fact that time devoted to God in prayer not only does not detract from effective and loving service to our neighbour but is in fact the inexhaustible source of that service.\" She wrote, \"It is only by mental prayer and spiritual reading that we can cultivate the gift of prayer.\"\n\nAlthough her order was not connected with the Franciscan orders, Teresa admired Francis of Assisi and was influenced by Franciscan spirituality. The Sisters of Charity recite the prayer of Saint Francis every morning at mass during the thanksgiving after Communion, and their emphasis on ministry and many of their vows are similar. Francis emphasised poverty, chastity, obedience and submission to Christ. He devoted much of his life to serving the poor, particularly lepers.\n\nAfter Teresa's death in 1997, the Holy See began the process of beatification (the third step towards canonisation) and Kolodiejchuk was appointed postulator by the Diocese of Calcutta. Although he said, \"We didn't have to prove that she was perfect or never made a mistake ...\", he had to prove that Teresa's virtue was heroic. Kolodiejchuk submitted 76 documents, totalling 35,000 pages, which were based on interviews with 113 witnesses who were asked to answer 263 questions.\n\nThe process of canonisation requires the documentation of a miracle resulting from the intercession of the prospective saint. In 2002 the Vatican recognised as a miracle the healing of a tumour in the abdomen of Monica Besra, an Indian woman, after the application of a locket containing Teresa's picture. According to Besra, a beam of light emanated from the picture and her cancerous tumour was cured; however, her husband and some of her medical staff said that conventional medical treatment eradicated the tumour. Dr. Ranjan Mustafi, who told \"the New York Times\" he had treated Besra, said that the cyst was caused by tuberculosis: \"It was not a miracle ... She took medicines for nine months to one year.\" According to Besra's husband, \"My wife was cured by the doctors and not by any miracle ... This miracle is a hoax.\" Besra said that her medical records, including sonograms, prescriptions and physicians' notes, were confiscated by Sister Betta of the Missionaries of Charity. According to \"Time\", calls to Sister Betta and the office of Sister Nirmala (Teresa's successor as head of the order) elicited no comment. Officials at Balurghat Hospital, where Besra sought medical treatment, said that they were pressured by the order to call her cure miraculous. In February 2000, former West Bengal health minister Partho De ordered a review of Besra's medical records at the Department of Health in Kolkata. According to De, there was nothing unusual about her illness and cure based on her lengthy treatment. He said that he had refused to give the Vatican the name of a doctor who would certify that Monica Besra's healing was a miracle.\n\nDuring Teresa's beatification and canonisation, the Roman Curia (the Vatican) studied published and unpublished criticism of her life and work. Hitchens and Chatterjee (author of \"The Final Verdict\", a book critical of Teresa) spoke to the tribunal; according to Vatican officials, the allegations raised were investigated by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints. The group found no obstacle to Teresa's canonisation, and issued its \"nihil obstat\" on 21 April 1999. Because of the attacks on her, some Catholic writers called her a sign of contradiction. A separate medical committee ruled that the miracle of Monica Besra, one of three considered by Kolodiejchuk, was evidence of divine intercession. Teresa was beatified on 19 October 2003, and was known by Catholics as \"Blessed\".\n\nOn 17 December 2015, the Vatican Press Office confirmed that Pope Francis recognised a second miracle attributed to Teresa: the healing of a Brazilian man with multiple brain tumours back in 2008. The miracle first came to the attention of the postulation (officials managing the cause) during the events of World Youth Day 2013 when the pope was in Brazil that July. A subsequent investigation took place in Brazil from 19–26 June 2015 which was later transferred to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints who issued a decree recognizing the investigation to be completed. A team of medical experts first analyzed and approved this miracle to have no scientific explanation on 10 September 2015, while theologians ascertained the miracle came about after prayers directed to Teresa after they met on 8 October. The members of the Congregation themselves met and approved the findings of the two previous boards on 15 December which allowed for them to pass on their findings to the pope two days later for his approval which he subsequently granted.\n\nFrancis canonised her at a ceremony on 4 September 2016 in St. Peter's Square in Vatican City. Tens of thousands of people witnessed the ceremony, including 15 government delegations and 1,500 homeless people from across Italy. It was televised live on the Vatican channel and streamed online; Skopje, Teresa's hometown, announced a week-long celebration of her canonisation. In India, a special mass was celebrated by the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata.\n\nOn September 4, 2017, during a celebration honoring the 1st anniversary of her canonization, Sister Mary Prema Pierick, Superior-General of the Missionaries of Charity, announced that Archbishop Teresa would be made the co-patron of the Calcutta Archdiocese during a Holy Mass in the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary at 5.30 pm on September 6, 2017. On September 5, 2017, Archbishop Thomas D'Souza, who serves as head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Calcutta, confirmed that Teresa will be named co-patron of the Calcutta Diocese, alongside Francis Xavier. On September 6, 2017, about 500 people attended the Mass at a cathedral where Dominique Gomes, the local Vicar General, read the decree instituting her as the second patron saint of the archdiocese. The ceremony was also presided over by D’Souza and the Vatican’s ambassador to India, Giambattista Diquattro, who lead the Mass and inaugurated a bronze statue in the church of Mother Teresa carrying a child.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church declared St. Francis Xavier the first patron saint of Calcutta in 1986.\n\nTeresa has been commemorated by museums and named the patroness of a number of churches. She has had buildings, roads and complexes named after her, including Albania's international airport. Mother Teresa Day \"(Dita e Nënë Terezës)\", 19 October, is a public holiday in Albania. In 2009 the Memorial House of Mother Teresa was opened in her hometown of Skopje, Macedonia. The Roman Catholic cathedral in Pristina, Kosovo, is named in her honour. Its construction, begun in 2011, sparked controversy in Muslim circles who saw it as oversized relative to the number of Catholics in the area. An initiative to erect a monument to Teresa in the town of Peć (according to activists, 98 percent Muslim) was opposed by Kosovo Muslims.\n\nMother Teresa Women's University, in Kodaikanal, was established in 1984 as a public university by the government of Tamil Nadu. The Mother Theresa Postgraduate and Research Institute of Health Sciences, in Pondicherry, was established in 1999 by the government of Puducherry. The charitable organisation Sevalaya runs the Mother Teresa Girls Home, providing poor and orphaned girls near the underserved village of Kasuva in Tamil Nadu with free food, clothing, shelter and education. A number of tributes by Teresa's biographer, Navin Chawla, have appeared in Indian newspapers and magazines. Indian Railways introduced the \"Mother Express\", a new train named after Mother Teresa, on 26 August 2010 to commemorate the centenary of her birth. The Tamil Nadu government organised centenary celebrations honouring Teresa on 4 December 2010 in Chennai, headed by chief minister M Karunanidhi. Beginning on 5 September 2013, the anniversary of her death has been designated the International Day of Charity by the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nOn September 5, 2017, St. Teresa Cathedral, the first Roman Catholic cathedral named in Teresa's honor, was consecrated in Kosovo. The Cathedral is also Kosovo's first Roman Catholic cathedral as well.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2368883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368883", "title": "Sad-dar", "text": "Sad-dar\n\nThe Sad-dar or \"Saddar\", literally \"Hundred Doors\" or chapters is a Persian book about Zoroastrianism. The hundred chapters are guidelines that Zoroastrians should follow. \n\nSanskrit cognate is \"Shat-Dwar\" (Shat=Hundred, Dwar=Door)\n\n"}
{"id": "41507373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41507373", "title": "Secularism in Tunisia", "text": "Secularism in Tunisia\n\nSecularism in Tunisia is an ideological and political movement aiming at defining the relationship between religion and state and the place of religion in society during an ongoing modernization. The Tunisian Constitution of 2014 affirmed Tunisia as a civil state founded on citizenship. It also declared Islam as Tunisia's religion. The following religious festivals are recognized as national holidays: the Islamic New Year, the birth of the Prophet Muhammad, Eid al-Fitr, and Eid al-Adha.\n\nIn 1956, Tunisia achieved formal independence from France. In 1956–1987, under the leadership of Habib Bourguiba, the first President of the Republic of Tunisia, Tunisia’s post independence government pursued a program of secularization. Bourguiba, \"who has been one of the most avowedly secularist political strategists in the Arab world\", modified laws regarding religious endowments (habus), secularized education and unified the legal system so that all Tunisians, regardless of religion, were subject to the state courts. He restricted the influence of the religious University of Ez-Zitouna and replaced it with a faculty of theology integrated into the University of Tunis, banned the headscarf for women, made members of the religious hierarchy state employees and ordered that the expenses for the upkeep of mosques and the salaries of preachers to be regulated.\n\nMoreover, his best known legal innovation was the ‘Code du Statut Personel’ (CSP), the laws governing issues related to the family: marriage, guardianship of children, inheritance and most importantly the abolishing of polygamy and making divorce subject to judicial review.\n\nBourguiba clearly wanted to undercut the religious establishment’s ability to prevent his secularization program, and although he was careful to locate these changes within the framework of a modernist reading of Islam and presented them as the product of \"ijtihad\" (independent interpretation) and not a break with Islam, he became well known for his secularism.\n\nFollowing increasing economic problems, Islamist movements came about in 1970 with the revival of religious teaching in Ez-Zitouna University and the influence which came from Arab religious leaders from Syrian and Egyptian Muslim Brotherhoods. There was also influence by Hizb ut-Tahrir, whose members issued a magazine in Tunis named \"Azeytouna\".\n\nGovernment-induced secularization triggered the formation of the Islamic Tendency Movement; the movement and its leader Rached Ghannouchi turned into a rallying point for government opponents. In the aftermath, the struggle of Bourguiba and then Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who succeeded him, with political Islamists went out of control, and in order to suppress the opposition the Islamist leaders were harassed, tortured, and exiled.\n\nThe Arab Spring changed government in Tunisia and resulted in adoption of the Tunisian Constitution of 2014 following a considerable debate between Islamic and secular political groups and movements. On 1 March 2011, after the secularist dictatorship of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali collapsed in the wake of the 2011 Tunisian revolution, Tunisia's interim government granted the \"Ennahda\", a moderate Islamist movement in Tunisia, permission to form a political party. Since then, the Ennahda Islamic Party has become the biggest and most well-organized party in Tunisia, so far outdistancing its more secular competitors. In the Tunisian Constituent Assembly election, 2011, the first free election in the country's history with a turn out of 51.1% of all eligible voters, the party won 37.04% of the popular vote and 89 (41%) of the 217 assembly seats, far more than any other party. In 2016, \"Ennahda\" rebranded itself as the post-Islamist political party of Muslim Democrats drawing a line between religion and politics.\n\nIn July 2017, the Tunisian parliament passed the Law on Eliminating Violence Against Women, before there had been no specific law on domestic violence. The new law also includes provisions on harassment in public spaces and economic discrimination. It also abolished “marry-your-rapist law”. Some Islamic scholars believe that An-Nisa, 34 allows for wife beating, therefore Tunisian law runs contradictory to the Quranic teachings.\n\nSince September 2017, Tunisian Muslim women are allowed to marry non-Muslim men. The ban has been in place since 1973. Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi argued that the ban “violated Tunisia's constitution”, and that he wants to create \"total, actual equality between men and women citizens in a progressive way\". Under Islamic law, as per Quran, a Muslim woman is not allowed to marry outside the Islamic faith (a non-Muslim).\n\nIn addition to the afromentioned, Tunisian parliament is working on changing inheritance rights to make them equal for men and women. In addition to codifying equal inheritance, the Parliament advocates abolishing the death penalty, decriminalizing homosexuality and annulling dowries. Such rapid changes provoked a backlash from Islamists, conservatives and even some moderates who view it as “an unwelcome departure from Islamic values.”\n\nA compromising notion of a \"Civil state\" that merges concepts of a \"Secular state\" and an \"Islamic state\" was suggested by Rached Ghannouchi. Interviewed in Turkey in 2011, he said, \"We need democracy and development in Tunisia and we strongly believe in the compatibility between Islam and democracy, between Islam and modernity. So we do not need secularism in Tunisia.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "147368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147368", "title": "Shirley MacLaine", "text": "Shirley MacLaine\n\nShirley MacLaine (born Shirley MacLean Beaty; April 24, 1934) is an American film, television, and theater actress, singer, dancer, activist, and author. An Academy Award winner, MacLaine received the 40th AFI Life Achievement Award from the American Film Institute in 2012, and received the Kennedy Center Honors for her lifetime contributions to American culture through the performing arts in 2013. She is known for her New Age beliefs, and has an interest in spirituality and reincarnation. She has written a series of autobiographical works that describe these beliefs, document her world travels, and describe her Hollywood career.\n\nHer first film was Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Trouble With Harry\" in 1955. A six-time Academy Award nominee, MacLaine received a nomination for Best Documentary Feature for \"\" (1975), and Best Actress nominations for \"Some Came Running\" (1958), \"The Apartment\" (1960), \"Irma la Douce\" (1963), and \"The Turning Point\" (1977), before winning Best Actress for \"Terms of Endearment\" (1983). She twice won the BAFTA Award for Best Foreign Actress, for \"Ask Any Girl\" (1959), and \"The Apartment\" (1960); and won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy-Variety or Music Special for the 1976 TV special, \"Gypsy In My Soul\". She has also won five competitive Golden Globe Awards, and received the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award at the 1998 ceremony.\n\nNamed after actress Shirley Temple (who was six years old at the time), Shirley MacLean Beaty was born on April 24, 1934, in Richmond, Virginia. Her father, Ira Owens Beaty, was a professor of psychology, public school administrator, and real estate agent, and her mother, Kathlyn Corinne (née MacLean), was a drama teacher, originally from Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Canada. MacLaine's younger brother is the actor, writer, and director Warren Beatty; he changed the spelling of his surname when he became an actor. Their parents raised them as Baptists. Her uncle (her mother's brother-in-law) was A. A. MacLeod, a Communist member of the Ontario legislature in the 1940s. While MacLaine was still a child, Ira Beaty moved his family from Richmond to Norfolk, and then to Arlington and Waverly, then back to Arlington eventually taking a position at Arlington's Thomas Jefferson Junior High School in 1945. MacLaine played baseball in an all-boys team, holding the record for most home runs, which earned her the nickname \"Powerhouse\". During the 1950s, the family resided in the Dominion Hills section of Arlington.\n\nAs a toddler, she had weak ankles and would fall over with the slightest misstep, so her mother decided to enroll her in ballet class at the Washington School of Ballet at the age of three. This was the beginning of her interest in performing. Strongly motivated by ballet, she never missed a class. In classical romantic pieces like \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"The Sleeping Beauty\", she always played the boys' roles due to being the tallest in the group and the absence of males in the class. Eventually, she had a substantial female role as the fairy godmother in \"Cinderella\"; while warming up backstage, she broke her ankle, but then tightened the ribbons on her toe shoes and proceeded to dance the role all the way through before calling for an ambulance. Ultimately she decided against making a career of professional ballet because she had grown too tall and was unable to acquire perfect technique. She explained that she didn't have the ideal body type, lacking the requisite \"beautifully constructed feet\" of high arches, high insteps and a flexible ankle. Also slowly realizing ballet's propensity to be too all-consuming, and ultimately limiting, she moved on to other forms of dancing, acting and musical theater.\n\nShe attended Washington-Lee High School, where she was on the cheerleading squad and acted in school theatrical productions.\n\nThe summer before her senior year of high school, MacLaine went to New York City to try acting on Broadway, and had some success. After she graduated, she returned and was in the dancing ensemble of the Broadway production of \"Me and Juliet\" (1953–1954). Afterwards became an understudy to actress Carol Haney in \"The Pajama Game\"; in May 1954 Haney injured her ankle during a Wednesday matinee, and MacLaine replaced her. A few months after, with Haney still injured, film producer Hal B. Wallis saw MacLaine's performance, and signed her to work for Paramount Pictures.\n\nMacLaine made her film debut in Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Trouble with Harry\" (1955), for which she won the Golden Globe Award for New Star of the Year – Actress. This was quickly followed by her role in the Martin and Lewis film \"Artists and Models\" (also 1955). Soon afterwards, she had a role in \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (1956). This was followed by \"Hot Spell\" and a leading role in \"Some Came Running\" (both 1958); for the latter film, she gained her first Academy Award nomination and a Golden Globe nomination. Her second Oscar nomination came two years later for \"The Apartment\" (1960), starring with Jack Lemmon. The film won five Oscars, including Best Director for Billy Wilder. She later said, \"I thought I would win for \"The Apartment\", but then, Elizabeth Taylor had a tracheotomy.\" She starred in \"The Children's Hour\" (1961), also starring Audrey Hepburn and James Garner, based on the play by Lillian Hellman, and directed by William Wyler. She was again nominated, this time for \"Irma la Douce\" (1963), which reunited her with Wilder and Lemmon. Don Siegel, her director on \"Two Mules for Sister Sara\" (1970), said of her: \"It's hard to feel any great warmth to her. She's too unfeminine, and has too much balls. She's very, very hard.\" At the peak of her success, she replaced Marilyn Monroe in \"Irma la Douce\" and \"What a Way to Go!\" (1964). Other films from this period include \"Gambit\" (1966), with Michael Caine, and the film version of the musical \"Sweet Charity\" (1968), based on the script for Fellini's \"Nights of Cabiria\" released a decade earlier.\nMacLaine's documentary film \"\" (1975), co-directed with Claudia Weill, concentrates on the experiences of women in China. It was nominated for the year's Documentary Feature Oscar. In 1976 MacLaine appeared in a series of concerts at the London Palladium and New York's Palace Theatre. The latter of these was released as the acclaimed live album \"Shirley MacLaine Live at the Palace\". Co-starring with Anne Bancroft in \"The Turning Point\" (1977), MacLaine portrayed a retired ballerina much like herself; she was nominated for an Oscar as the Best Actress in a Leading Role. In 1978, she was awarded the Women in Film Crystal Award for outstanding women who, through their endurance and the excellence of their work, have helped to expand the role of women within the entertainment industry. She appeared with Peter Sellers in the satire \"Being There\" (1979), and was cast as a photojournalist in a short-lived television sitcom, \"Shirley's World\" (1971–1972), co-produced by Sheldon Leonard and ITC and shot in the United Kingdom.\n\nMacLaine starred in \"A Change of Seasons\" (1980) alongside Anthony Hopkins, and won the Best Actress in a Leading Role Oscar for \"Terms of Endearment\" (1983), playing Debra Winger's mother. She won a Golden Globe for Best Actress (Drama) for \"Madame Sousatzka\" (1988).\n\nShe has continued to star in major films, such as \"Steel Magnolias\" with Sally Field, Julia Roberts, and other stars. In 2000, she made her feature-film directorial debut, and starred in \"Bruno\", which was released to video as \"The Dress Code\". MacLaine has starred in \"Postcards from the Edge\" (1990), with Meryl Streep, playing a fictionalized version of Debbie Reynolds from a screenplay by Reynolds's daughter, Carrie Fisher; \"Used People\" (1992), with Jessica Tandy and Kathy Bates; \"Guarding Tess\" (1994), with Nicolas Cage; \"Mrs. Winterbourne\" (1996), with Ricki Lake and Brendan Fraser; \"Rumor Has It…\" (2005) with Kevin Costner and Jennifer Aniston; \"In Her Shoes\" (also 2005), with Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette; and \"Closing the Ring\" (2007), directed by Richard Attenborough and starring Christopher Plummer.\n\nMacLaine has also appeared in numerous television projects, including an autobiographical miniseries based upon the book \"Out on a Limb\"; \"The Salem Witch Trials\"; \"These Old Broads\" written by Carrie Fisher and co-starring Elizabeth Taylor, Debbie Reynolds, and Joan Collins; and \"Coco\", a Lifetime production based on the life of Coco Chanel. She appeared in the third and fourth seasons of the British drama \"Downton Abbey\" as Martha Levinson, mother to Cora, Countess of Grantham (played by Elizabeth McGovern) and Harold Levinson (played by Paul Giamatti) in 2012–2013.\n\nIn 2016, MacLaine starred in \"Wild Oats\" with Jessica Lange. On February 2016, it was announced that MacLaine will star in the live-action family film \"A Little Mermaid\", based on the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, to be produced by MVP Studios.\n\nMacLaine sued Hal Wallis over a contractual dispute, a suit that has been credited with ending the old-style studio star system of actor management.\n\nIn 1966, MacLaine sued Twentieth Century-Fox for breach of contract when the studio reneged on its agreement to star MacLaine in a film version of the musical \"Bloomer Girl\", to be filmed in Hollywood, offering her instead the female dramatic lead in a Western to be filmed in Australia. The case was decided in Maclaine's favor, and affirmed on appeal by the California Supreme Court in 1970; the case is often cited in law-school textbooks as a major example of employment-contract law.\n\nMacLaine was married to businessman Steve Parker from 1954 until their divorce in 1982; they have a daughter, Sachi. In April 2011, while promoting her new book, \"I'm Over All That\", she revealed to Oprah Winfrey that she had had an open relationship with her husband. MacLaine also told Winfrey that she often fell for the leading men she worked with, with the exceptions of Jack Lemmon (\"The Apartment\") and Jack Nicholson (\"Terms of Endearment\"). MacLaine also had a long running affair with Australian politician and two-time Liberal leader Andrew Peacock.\n\nMacLaine has also gotten into feuds with such notable co-stars as Anthony Hopkins (\"A Change of Seasons\"), who said that \"she was the most obnoxious actress I have ever worked with\", and Debra Winger (\"Terms of Endearment\").\n\nMacLaine has claimed that, in a previous life in Atlantis, she was the brother to a 35,000-year-old spirit named Ramtha channeled by American mystic teacher and author J. Z. Knight.\n\nShe has a strong interest in spirituality and metaphysics, the central theme of some of her best-selling books, including \"Out on a Limb\" and \"Dancing in the Light\". She has undertaken such forms of spiritual exploration as walking the Way of St. James, working with Chris Griscom, and practicing Transcendental Meditation.\n\nHer well-known interest in New Age spirituality has also made its way into several of her films. In Albert Brooks's romantic comedy \"Defending Your Life\" (1991), the recently deceased lead characters, played by Brooks and Meryl Streep, are astonished to find MacLaine introducing their past lives in the \"Past Lives Pavilion\". In \"Postcards from the Edge\" (1990), MacLaine sings a version of \"I'm Still Here\", with customized lyrics created for her by composer Stephen Sondheim. One of the lyrics was changed to \"I'm feeling transcendental – am I here?\" In the 2001 television movie \"These Old Broads\", MacLaine's character is a devotee of New Age spirituality.\n\nShe has an interest in UFOs, and gave numerous interviews on CNN, NBC and Fox news channels on the subject during 2007–08. In her book \"Sage-ing While Age-ing\" (2007), she described alien encounters and witnessing a Washington, D.C. UFO incident in the 1950s. On an episode of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" in April 2011, MacLaine stated that she and her neighbor observed numerous UFO incidents at her New Mexico ranch for extended periods of time.\n\nMacLaine is godmother to the daughter of former Democratic U.S. Representative Dennis Kucinich.\n\nAlong with her brother, Warren Beatty, MacLaine used her celebrity status in instrumental roles as a fundraiser and organizer for George McGovern's campaign for president in 1972. That year, she authored the book \"McGovern: The Man and His Beliefs\".\n\nOn February 7, 2013, Penguin Group USA published Sachi Parker's autobiography \"Lucky Me: My Life With – and Without – My Mom, Shirley MacLaine\". MacLaine has called the book \"virtually all fiction\".\n\nIn 2015, she sparked criticism for her comments on Jews, Christians, and Stephen Hawking. In particular she claimed that victims of the Holocaust were experiencing the results of their own karma, and suggested that Hawking subconsciously caused himself to develop ALS as a means to focus better on physics.\n\nMacLaine was awarded the Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime contributions to American culture through the performing arts in December 2013. She also has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1617 Vine Street and in 1999 was awarded the Honorary Golden Bear at the 49th Berlin International Film Festival, and her likeness has been sculpted in wax for Madame Tussauds Las Vegas.\n\nIn 2011, the government of France made her a Chevalier de la Legion d'honneur.\n\nIn the 2017 Oscars Award Show, she presented the best Foreign Language Film of the year alongside Charlize Theron, and was featured in a segment about her work in \"The Apartment\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15627691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15627691", "title": "Sho Baraka", "text": "Sho Baraka\n\nAmisho Baraka Lewis (born January 10, 1979), better known by his stage name Sho Baraka, is an American Christian hip-hop artist and writer who has recorded both independently and as a founding member of the 116 Clique. He was originally signed to Reach Records until leaving in March 2011. He then co-founded a record label and group known as \"High Society\" with fellow Christian rappers J.R., Swoope, and Suzy Rock. His debut album \"Turn My Life Up\" was released in November 2007. His second album \"Lions and Liars\", was released March 2010. His third album \"Talented Xth\" was released in January 2013. His fourth album, \"The Narrative,\" was released in October 2016.\n\nBorn in Alberta, Canada on January 10, 1979, but raised in California, he resided in Texas and currently lives in Atlanta. Sho Baraka was introduced to hip hop at a young age. Living in Southern California during the height of gangsta rap presented its challenges to many youths, as well as Sho. In high school Sho and some friends from his neighborhood formed a rap group that began touring with major recording artists. But his life took a different turn after the rap group fizzled out and close friends were killed or incarcerated due to the gang life they led. He decided to heed his father's advice and apply to college, pursuing education instead of the streets. There he came into contact with Lecrae and Tedashii and eventually the 116 Clique and Reach Records were formed.\n\nOn April 13, 2011, Rapzilla posted a blog from Sho stating that he planned to leave Reach Records after four years and two albums with the label. Although he is leaving the Reach label, Sho said he would continue to be an artist with Reach booking and continue to do concert dates and events with the label through 2011. He would also be featured on Reach projects released through the year. Sho Baraka is now a part of the music & art group High Society with Swoope, J.R., & Suzy Rock. Lewis announced that he will release a new album, \"Talented Xth\", on January 1, 2013.\n\nOn June 14, 2016, he signed with Christian hip-hop label, Humble Beast.\n\nBaraka can be spotted as Trip Lee's fictional boss at the newspaper Trip Lee works for in the video for Trip lee's song \"The Invasion (hero)\" off the album \"Between Two Worlds\".\nHe also was in the music video for Lecrae's lead single, \"Don't Waste Your Life\" from his 2008 album, \"Rebel\", as a former gang member of Lecrae's who escaped arrest years before, with Lecrae portraying a converted Christian, writing to his former friend about how God had changed his life.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26983110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983110", "title": "Singh Krora Misl", "text": "Singh Krora Misl\n\nThe Singh Krora Misl, alternatively as the Panjgarhia Misl, was founded , first led by Sardar Karora Singh. It had a strength of 10,000 regular horsemen.\n\nThe Karorsinghia Misl was named after Sardar Karora Singh, of Barki village in Lahore District. He was Sandhu Jat. The founder of the \"jatha\" or band of warriors that subsequently acquired the size and power of a misl, was Sardar Sham Singh of Narli village in Amritsar District who had battled with the invading forces of Nadir Shah in 1739. He was succeeded by Karam Singh, an Uppal Khatri of the village of Panjgarh in Gurdaspur district. Karam Singh fell fighting against Ahmad Shah Durrani in January 1748 and was succeeded by Sardar Karora Singh.\n\nKarora Singh confined his activities to the tract lying south of the Karigra hills in Hoshiarpur district, and had seized several important towns such as Hoshiarpur, Hariana and Sham Chaurasi before he died in 1761. Baghel Singh Dhariwal, Jat sikh, who succeeded Karora Singh as leader of the Karorsinghias, is celebrated in Sikh history as the conqueror of Mughal Delhi. Baghel Singh arose from the village of Jhabal Kalan, in Amritsar district, to become a formidable force in the Sutlej region.\n\nit is also believed that, Krora singh was of kumhar/Jat* (prajapati Caste).\nwww.sikhiwiki.org/index.php/Kumhar\n"}
{"id": "4775340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4775340", "title": "Sri Guru Singh Sabha", "text": "Sri Guru Singh Sabha\n\nSri Guru Singh Sabha Malton is a gurudwara (Sikh temple) located in Malton, Ontario, Canada. A gurdwara (, ' or , '), meaning \"the doorway to the Guru\", is the Sikh place of worship and may be referred to as a Sikh temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "1732876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732876", "title": "Tales from the Leather Nun", "text": "Tales from the Leather Nun\n\nTales from the Leather Nun was an American underground comic published by Last Gasp in 1973. It was a one-shot anthology of bizarre, violent and perverted stories featuring nuns by Dave Sheridan, Robert Crumb, Spain Rodriguez, Jaxon, Roger Brand, and Pat Ryan.\n\nDeborah Harry is seen reading the comic in the 1992 movie \"Intimate Stranger\".\n"}
{"id": "5832330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832330", "title": "The Jewish Week", "text": "The Jewish Week\n\nThe Jewish Week is a weekly independent community newspaper targeted towards the Jewish community of the metropolitan New York City area. \"The Jewish Week\" covers news relating to the Jewish community in NYC. In March 2016, \"The Jewish Week\" announced its partnership with the online newspaper \"The Times of Israel\".\n\nGary Rosenblatt has been the editor and publisher since 1993.\n\nIn 2016, \"The Jewish Week\" became a finalist for awards in two categories by the Deadline Club, the New York City chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, for its series on the battle to improve secular education in chasidic schools. The series was done in partnership with WNYC.\n\nIn 2000, Rosenblatt and the newspaper won the Casey Medal for Meritorious Journalism from the Journalism Center on Children & Families for the story \"Stolen Innocence\", an investigative report that uncovered allegations of decades of child abuse by a youth movement leader and high school principal, Baruch Lanner. The story was criticized by some in the Orthodox community for being \"malicious gossip\".\n"}
{"id": "530735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530735", "title": "The Tao of Pooh", "text": "The Tao of Pooh\n\nThe Tao of Pooh is a book written by Benjamin Hoff. The book is intended as an introduction to the Eastern belief system of Taoism for Westerners. It allegorically employs the fictional characters of A. A. Milne's \"Winnie-the-Pooh\" stories to explain the basic principles of philosophical Taoism. Hoff later wrote \"The Te of Piglet\", a companion book.\n\nHoff wrote the book at night and on weekends while working as a tree pruner in the Portland Japanese Garden in Washington Park.\nThe book starts with a description of the vinegar tasters, which is a painting portraying the three great eastern thinkers, Confucius, the Buddha, and Laozi over a vat of vinegar. Each tasting the vinegar of \"life,\" Confucius finds it sour, the Buddha finds it bitter, but Laozi, the traditional founder of Taoism, finds it satisfying. Then the story unfolds backing up this analogy.\n\nHoff presents Winnie-the-Pooh and related others from A. A. Milne's stories as characters that interact with him while he writes \"The Tao of Pooh\", but also quotes excerpts of their tales from Milne's actual books \"Winnie-the-Pooh\" and \"The House at Pooh Corner,\" in order to exemplify his points. Hoff uses many of Milne's characters to symbolize ideas that differ from or accentuate Taoist tenets. Winnie-the-Pooh himself, for example, personifies the principles of \"wei wu wei\", the Taoist concept of \"effortless doing,\" and \"pu,\" the concept of being open to, but unburdened by, experience, and it is also a metaphor for natural human nature. In contrast, characters like Owl and Rabbit over-complicate problems, often over-thinking to the point of confusion, and Eeyore pessimistically complains and frets about existence, unable to just \"be\". Hoff regards Pooh's simpleminded nature, unsophisticated worldview and instinctive problem-solving methods as conveniently representative of the Taoist philosophical foundation. The book also incorporates translated excerpts from various prominent Taoist texts, from authors such as Laozi and Zhuangzi.\n\nThe book was on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for 49 weeks. \n\nIt was used as required reading in certain college courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14699540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14699540", "title": "Titles of Mary", "text": "Titles of Mary\n\nMary is known by many different titles (Blessed Mother, Madonna, Our Lady), epithets (Star of the Sea, Queen of Heaven, Cause of Our Joy), invocations (\"Theotokos\", \"Panagia\", Mother of Mercy) and other names (Our Lady of Loreto, Our Lady of Guadalupe).\n\nAll of these titles refer to the same individual named Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ (in the New Testament) and are used variably by Roman Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, and some Anglicans. (Note: Mary Magdalene, Mary of Clopas, and Mary Salome are different individuals from Mary, mother of Jesus.)\n\nMany of the titles given to Mary are dogmatic in nature. Other titles are poetic or allegorical and have lesser or no canonical status, but which form part of popular piety, with varying degrees of acceptance by the clergy. Yet more titles refer to depictions of Mary in the history of art.\n\nThere are several stories on the significance of the relatively large number of titles given to Mary. Some titles grew due to geographic and cultural reasons, e.g. through the veneration of specific icons. Others were related to Marian apparitions.\n\nMary's help is sought for a large spectrum of human needs in varied situations. This led to the formulation of many of her titles (good counsel, help of the sick, etc.). Moreover, meditations and devotions on the different aspects of the Virgin Mary's role within the life of Jesus led to additional titles such as Our Lady of Sorrows. Still further titles have been derived from dogmas and doctrines, such as the Immaculate Conception.\n\nMary's cultus or \"devotional cult\" consolidated in the year 431 when, at the Council of Ephesus, the \"Theotokos\", or Mary as bearer (or mother) of God, was declared dogma. Henceforth Marian devotion—which centered on the subtle and complex relationship between Mary, Jesus, and the Church—would flourish, first in the East and later in the West.\n\nThe Reformation diminished Mary's role in many parts of Northern Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries. The Council of Trent and Counter Reformation would intensify Marian devotion in the West. Around the same period, Mary would become an instrument of evangelization in the Americas and parts of Asia and Africa, e.g. via the apparitions at Our Lady of Guadalupe which resulted in a large number of conversions to Christianity in Mexico.\n\nFollowing the Reformation, as of the 17th century, the baroque literature on Mary experienced unforeseen growth with over 500 pages of Mariological writings during the 17th century alone. During the Age of Enlightenment, the emphasis on scientific progress and rationalism put Catholic theology and Mariology often on the defensive in the later parts of the 18th century, to the extent that books such as \"The Glories of Mary\" (by Alphonsus Liguori) were written in defense of Mariology.\n\n\n“Our Lady” is a common title to give to Mary as a sign of respect and honor. In French she is called \"Notre Dame\" and in Spanish she is \"Nuestra Señora\".\n\n\n\nIn the Loreto Litanies Mary's prayers are invoked under more than fifty separate titles, such as \"Mother Most Pure\", \"Virgin Most Prudent\", and \"Cause of Our Joy\".\n\nOther devotional titles include:\n\nOther titles related to images include: \n\nA number of titles of Mary found in Latin America pertain to cultic images of her represented in iconography identified with a particular already existent title adapted to a particular place. Our Lady of Luján in Argentina refers to a small terracotta image made in Brazil and sent to Argentina in May, 1630. Its appearance seems to have been inspired by Murillo's Immaculates. Our Lady of Copacabana (Bolivia): is a figure related to devotion to Mary under the title \"Most Blessed Virgin de la Candelaria, Our Lady of Copacabana\". About four feet in height, the statue was made by Francisco Tito Yupanqui around 1583 and is garbed in the colors and dress of an Inca princess.\n\nTheotokos means \"God-bearer\" and is translated as \"Mother of God\". This title was given to Mary at the Third Ecumenical Council in Ephesus in 431 AD.(cf. Luke 1:43).\nThe Qur'an refers to Mary () by the following titles:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2079470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079470", "title": "Yab-Yum", "text": "Yab-Yum\n\nYab-yum (Tibetan literally, \"father-mother\") is a common symbol in the Buddhist art of India, Bhutan, Nepal, and Tibet. It represents the primordial union of wisdom and compassion, depicted as a male deity in union with his female consort. The male figure represents compassion and skillful means, while the female partner represents insight.\n\nThe symbolism is associated with Anuttarayoga tantra and, while there are various interpretations of the symbolism in twilight language, the male figure is usually linked to compassion (\"\") and skillful means (\"upāya-kauśalya\"), while the female partner to \"wisdom\" (\"prajñā\").\n\nYab-yum is generally understood to represent the primordial (or mystical) union of wisdom and compassion. In Buddhism the masculine form is active, representing the compassion and skillful means (\"upaya\") that have to be developed in order to reach enlightenment. The feminine form is passive and represents wisdom (\"prajna\"), which is also necessary to enlightenment. United, the figures symbolize the union necessary to overcome the veils of Maya, the false duality of object and subject.\n\nThese figures are frequently worked in the shape of statues or reliefs, or are painted on thangkas. Yab-yum may also be represented through the aniconic signification of yantra and mandala.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, the same ideas are to be found concerning the bell and the dorje, which, like the yab-yum, symbolize the dualism that must be exceeded. The sacred Tantric practice leads to rapid development of mind by using the experience of bliss, non-duality, and ecstasy while in communion with one's consort, either visualized, or in the case of advanced practitioners, in some cases physical. In one an important Anuttarayoga text, where Tilopa expounds the meaning to Naropa, it says: \n\n\"When you rely on a consort, the wisdom of empty bliss will arise, so enter into union—the blessing of method and wisdom. Bring it down slowly, retain it, reverse it, and draw it back up. Bring it to the places in the body and let it spread throughout. When you remain free of desire, the wisdom of empty bliss will appear.\" \n\nIndicating the advanced nature of the actual practice with consort, the verses are the last in what is already widely considered as a text for the most advanced practitioners, a fact clearly evident in the story about Naropa's receiving the teaching. \n\nIn Hinduism the yab-yum has a slightly different meaning. There, the embraced posture represents the divine strength of creation. The Hindu concept is the one of a passive masculine deity embracing his spouse called shakti, which represents his activity or power. The iconic yab-yum of Chakrasamvara-Vajravarahi is directly influenced from the Hinduist depiction of Kali and Bhairava in union.\n\nThe symbolism of union and sexual polarity is a central teaching in Tantric Buddhism, especially in Tibet. The union is realised by the practitioner as a mystical experience within one's own body.\n\nAs a tantric practice, Yab-yum is akin to the Karmamudrā or \"actionseal\". This is the tantric yoga involving a physical partner. However, the aim of the practice is to control one's winds. This sadhana is part of the completion stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "515610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515610", "title": "Yana (Buddhism)", "text": "Yana (Buddhism)\n\nYāna (Sanskrit and Pāli: \"vehicle\") refers to a mode or method of spiritual practice in Buddhism, and in particular to divisions of various schools of Buddhism according to their type of practice.\n\nIn form, yāna is a neuter noun derived from the Sanskrit root yā- meaning to \"go to\" or \"move\" or \"reach\". The suffix employed to form this noun may have different values: while primarily yāna is understood to refer to the means (kara.na) through which one goes to/ reaches a location, it may technically also refer to the action itself (bhāva). Yāna is therefore primarily a \"vehicle\", in most contexts relevant to the Buddhist doctrine of three yānas.\n\n\"Vehicle\" is often used as a preferred translation as the word that provides the least in the way of presuppositions about the mode of travel.\n\nIn specifically Buddhist contexts, the word yāna acquires many metaphorical meanings, discussed below.\n\nIn the \"Mahāparinibbāna Sutta\" (1.33-34), Shakyamuni Buddha relates a story on \"vehicles\" of conveyance utilizing the sacred river Ganges, all of which may be engaged as a metaphor for \"yana\" and a gradual or direct path:\n\n1.33 And then the Lord came to the River Ganges. And just then, the river was so full that a crow could drink out of it. And some people were looking for a boat, and some were looking for a raft, and some were binding together a raft of reeds to get to the other side. But the Lord, as swiftly as a strong man might stretch out his flexed arm or flex it again, vanished from this side of the Ganges and reappeared with his order of monks on the other shore.\n1.34 And the Lord saw those people who were looking for a boat, looking for a raft, and binding together a raft of reeds to get to the other side. And seeing their intentions, he uttered this verse on the spot:\nThese two verses are meant to teach that all vehicles, teachings and doctrine are skillful means (Skt.\"upāya\").\n\nThe \"Bodhipathapradīpa\" of Atisha (980-1054 CE), quoted in Gampopa's (1079-1153 CE) \"Jewel Ornament of Liberation\" rendered into English by Günther, makes reference to people of three capacities:\n\nMan is to be known in three ways:\nAs inferior, mediocre and excellent.\n\nHe who by any means whatsoever\nProvides for the pleasures of Saṃsāra\nFor himself alone,\nIs called an inferior man.\n\nHe who turns his back to the pleasures of the world\nAnd abstains from evil deeds,\nBut provides only for his own peace,\nIs called a mediocre man.\n\nHe who seriously wants to dispel\nAll the misery of others,\nBecause in the stream of his own being he has understood the nature of misery,\nIs an excellent man.\nYana is determined by capacity and propensity of the \"precious human body\" wrought by merit, not by a specific teaching or lineage, as Gampopa states:\n\nTherefore, because of the difficulty of its attainment, of the uneasiness of its breaking down, and of its great usefulness, we should think of the body as a boat and by its means escape from the ocean of Saṃsāra. As is written:\nEmpowerment, initiation, intention and endeavour may leaven capacity and propensity as may a graceful benediction of a person (in the sense of mindstream), object or place endowed or invested with holiness. In the teaching story abovementioned, Shakyamuni Buddhi and his sangha traverse the continuum directly in the body of their own experience rather than constructing a gradual vehicle for passage.\n\nIn Buddhism and Hinduism, both \"yāna\" and \"mārga\" (road or path) are metaphors depicting spiritual practice as a path or journey. Ancient texts in both religions discuss doctrines and practices associated with various \"yānas\". In Buddhism, \"yāna\" often expands the metaphor of the spiritual path with the idea of various vehicles that convey a person along that path. The \"yāna / mārga\" metaphor pervasive within Buddhism and other traditions is an analogue to the Chinese metaphor of the Tao: The Tao though is the Way as the endgoal and not just the art of wayfinding. The dialogic spiritual traditions of Indian and Chinese culture hold common cultural memes.\n\nThe use of \"yāna\" to use as a name or to refer to a spiritual journey may date to the ', possibly composed circa 1500 BCE, whose 10th Mandala makes several references to \"devayāna\", (translators usually render this as the \"path of the gods\" or similar) and one reference to ' (\"path of the fathers\"). The first verse of the 's burial hymn (10.18) translates approximately as \"O Death, take the other path, which is distinct from the way of the gods\" ('). The \"other path\" is the ', referred to in hymn 10.2 and alluded to in 10.14 and 10.16.\n\nThe \"devayāna\" and ' evolved from the ancient Rig Vedic concern for immortality to the classical Hindu concern with ending existence. The , which comment on the Vedas, make further reference to \"devayāna\" and '. Among other distinctions, the pitryana was said to refer the religious practices of villagers, and the devayāna was said to refer to the practices of recluses living in the forest. The (II.iv.11 and IV.v.12) also makes reference to \"ekayāna\", notably in the phrase \"\", where \"ekayānam\" connotes \"one journey\". The phrase translates approximately to \" Sacred Vedas - intonation - (is the) one journey/destination\", in the same sense that a river's journey is to the ocean.\n\nYāna is one of ten suggested gifts (\"dana\") that a lay person can appropriately give a monk or recluse, in the sense of providing a vehicle or transportation (e.g., see DN 7.33/PTS: A iv 59 and DN 10.177/PTS: A v 269).\n\nThe earliest explicit Buddhist use of -yāna in a metaphorical sense of a journey to awakening may be the term \"dhammayānam\", \"dharma chariot\" (SN IV.4), where the vehicle itself serves as an extended metaphor for the Eightfold Path. Various parts of the chariot represent aspects of the Path (\"magga\"), e.g. axles represent meditation, the charioteer represents mindfulness, and so on.\n\nThus, metaphorical usage of yāna in the sense of a vehicle (as distinct from a path) emerged from a Buddhist context, and it did so relatively early in the evolution of Buddhism. Nevertheless, while the Pali Canon are very rich in images of wheels (\"cakka\") and paths (\"magga\") as metaphors for the journey to awakening, the Pali Canon rarely uses the term \"yāna\" for that purpose.\n\nAccording to Fujita Kotatsu the term Three Vehicles does not occur in the Pâli tripitaka, however corresponding terms (\"trîni yânâni\", \"triyâna\", \"yânatraya\") are used in the Ekottara Agama, the Mahavastu, and the Mahāvibhāṣa Śāstra. In these texts the Three Vehicles include the \"srâvakayâna\", \"pratyekabuddhayâna\", and \"buddhayâna\".\n\nMahayana texts are very rich in images of vehicles that serve in metaphors for journeys to awakening.\n\nThe tradition of Mahayana texts employing the image of different types of vehicles and conveyances as salient metaphor for the journey of novice to the awakening of adept may have begun with the \"Lotus Sūtra\". The Lotus Sūtra holds a parable of a devoted father with three small children entranced in childhood play within the family home, oblivious that tongues of flame are ravenously engulfing the house. The father entices the children from the burning home with the half-truth gilded promise of special carts for each of them. The carts though are only an expedient means for luring the children from the house.\n\nKatō \"et al.\" render thus into English a tract of the \"Saddharma Puṇḍarīka\" pertaining to the cart of expedient means and the parable of the burning house:\n\n\"Śāriputra! Even as that elder, though with power in body and arms, yet does not use it but only by diligent tact resoutely saves <nowiki>[his]</nowiki> children from the calamity of the burning house and then gives each of them great carts made of precious things, so it is with the Tathāgata; though he has power and fearlessness, he does not use them, but only by his wise tact does he remove and save all living creatures from the burning house of the triple world, preaching the three vehicles: the śrāvaka, pratyekabuddha, and Buddha vehicle.\nIn the parable, the carts are explicitly identified as corresponding to the three types of Buddha: the goat-cart represents the practices leading to the attainment of Arhatship; the deer-cart, Pratyekabuddhahood; and the bullock-cart, Samyaksambuddhahood. The sutra goes on to say these that the teachings of the three vehicles are merely expedient means (upāya). Their purpose is to direct people toward \"ekayāna\", the one vehicle, depicted in the parable as a jeweled cart driven by a white ox.\n\nTamura \"et al.\" render a section of the \"Innumerable Meanings Sutra\" (Wu-liang-i ching) that relates the relationship of the Law (Dharma) and various teachings as fundamentally determined by the audience and context:\n\n      \"Good sons! The Law is like water that washes off dirt. As a well, a pond, a stream, a river, a valley stream, a ditch, or a great sea, each alike effectively washes off all kinds of dirt, so the Law-water effectively washes off the dirt of all delusions of living beings.\n      \"Good sons! The nature of water is one, but a stream, a river, a well, a pond, a valley stream, a ditch, and a great sea are different from one another. The nature of the Law is like this. There is equality and no differentiation in washing off the dirt of delusions, but the three laws, the four merits, and the two ways are not one and the same.\n      \"Good sons! Though each washes equally as water, a well is not a pond, a pond is not a stream or a river, nor is a valley stream or a ditch a sea. As the Tathāgata, the world's hero, is free in the Law, all the laws preached by him are also like this. Though preaching at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end all alike effectively wash off the delusions of living beings, the beginning is not the middle, and the middle is not the end. Preaching at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end are the same in expression but different from one another in meaning.\n\n§ The three laws are the Four Noble Truths, the Twelve Causes, and the Six Pāramitās...; the four merits are srota-āpanna, sakṛdāgāmin, anāgāmin, and arhat...; and the two ways the Great-vehicle, or Mahayana, and the lesser vehicle, or Hinayana.\n\nMahayana texts such as the Lotus Sutra and the Avatamsaka Sutra sought to unite all the different teachings into a single great way. These texts serve as the inspiration for using the term \"Ekayāna\" in the sense of \"one vehicle\". This \"one vehicle\" became a key aspect of the doctrines and practices of Tiantai and Tendai Buddhist sects, which subsequently influenced Chán and Zen doctrines and practices. In Japan, the one-vehicle teaching of the Lotus Sutra also inspired the formation of the Nichiren sect.\n\nTraditionally, the two vehicles in Mahāyāna Buddhism consist of Śrāvakayāna and Pratyekabuddhayāna. Mahāyāna Buddhists take a vow to become the third type, namely bodhisattvas. Therefore, Mahayana Buddhist texts sometimes use terms like \"followers of the two vehicles\" to refer to Buddhists who do not accept the Mahayana sutras.\n\nSome Mahāyāna sutras consider that the two vehicles together comprise the \"Hīnayāna\" – literally, inferior vehicle; sometimes, small vehicle. Modern texts sometimes refer to Mahāyāna and Hīnayāna as \"two vehicles\". But referring to an \"inferior vehicle\" is often felt to be disrespectful to those Buddhists who do not consider the Mahāyāna sutras to be \"buddhavacana\".\n\nIn Vajrayāna/Mahāyāna Buddhism Sūtrayāna and Tantrayāna\n\nMahāyāna Buddhists often express two different schemata of three yanas. First, here are three paths to liberation that culminate as one of the three types of Buddha:\n\n\nA second classification came into use with the rise of the Vajrayāna, which created a hierarchy of the teachings with the Vajrayāna being the highest path. The Vajrayāna itself became multilayered especially in Tibetan Buddhism.\n\n\nMahayana Buddhists sometimes refer to four yanas that subsume the two different schemes of the three yanas:\n\nThis is a Mahāyāna list which is found in East Asian Buddhism.\n\n\nThe five yānas plus the Vajrayāna. This schema is associated with Shingon Buddhism in Japan. It was invented by Kūkai in order to help to differentiate the Vajrayāna teachings that he imported from China in the early 9th century. Kūkai wanted to show that the new teachings were entirely new.\n\nThe Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism has nine yanas, a list made by combining the first type of three yanas, and adding the six classes of tantras.\n\nThe head of the Nyingma school, Dudjom Rinpoche emphasizes the eight lower vehicles are intellectually fabricated and contrived:\n\nAnother schema associated with Mahāyāna and Vajrayāna sources:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2597366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2597366", "title": "Zashiki-warashi", "text": "Zashiki-warashi\n\nZashiki-warashi (Japanese: or , \"guestroom child\"), sometimes also called \"Zashiki Bokko\" (Japanese: , \"guestroom basker\"), are spirit-like beings told about mostly in the Iwate Prefecture. They are said to be gods that live in \"zashiki\" storage rooms, and they would perform pranks, and those that see one would be visited with good fortune. There are also legends of how they would bring fortune to families. They are also known from Kunio Yanagita's \"Tōno Monogatari\", \"Ishigami Mondō\", and stories about them appear in the 17th and 18th chapters of the \"Tōno Monogatari\" and the 87th chapter titled \"Zashiki-warashi\" of the \"Tōno Monogatari Shūi\", and in this 17th chapter it is written \"families with whom this god dwells are freely able to prosper at will\" (\"kono kami no yadoritamafu ihe ha fūki jizai nari to ifu koto nari\") and \"\"zashiki-warashi\" are also called \". In recent years, they are also known from television programs and magazines that reported about various Iwate Prefecture ryokan where it is said to be possible to see a \"zashiki-warashi\" such as the Ryokufūsō, the Sugawara Bekkan, and the Warabe.\n\nIt is similar to the Russian folk story of the Domovoi.\n\nReports have mostly been in the Iwate Prefecture, but there are also some scattered across the Aomori Prefecture, the Miyagi Prefecture, the Akita Prefecture, and others in the Tōhoku region.\n\nGenerally they have a red face, hair that hangs down, and have the appearance of that of a child about 5 or 6 in age, but this age is also said to vary depending on the house that they settle in, with examples ranging from a minimum of around 3 years in age and a maximum of around 15 years in age. They have a Bob cut hair or very short cropped hair. Both male and females ones have been seen, and the male ones are said to wear blackish clothes with a kasuri or striped pattern, and the females ones are said to wear a red chanchanko, kosode, and sometimes a furisode. It is also said that there are some whose appearance is unclear, making their gender unknown. Sometimes multiple would settle in a house at once, like a boy and a girl. There are also some legends that tell ones that look like a black beast, as well as ones that look like a warrior.\n\nThey like causing mischief, so they are said to leave ash or bleaching powder on top of little footprints and at night time, they are said to make sounds like that of a revolving spinning wheel, and they would also make sounds in an inner room making sounds like that of a kagura performance. There are also tales told about how when someone in the family is sewing alone, there would be sounds similar to the rustling of papers or someone snorting, etc., and when the wooden door is opened there would be no one there. It is also said that at night, they would do pranks such as riding on top of guest room futons and turning over the pillows in order to not let the person sleep, and when attempts are made to stop it, it would be too strong and powerful for anyone to even affect its actions. Sometimes they also play with children.\n\nIn Iwate, there are legends of how the zashiki-warashi of a shrine at Hayachine would follow a shrine visitor who came from afar and follow them into different lands. There is also legends of how the zashiki-warashi would teach the nursery rhyme of Iwate to the children of those lands.\n\nIn Gonohe, Aomori Prefecture, there is a legend of how when a new house is built, a zashiki-warashi can be called into it by burying a golden ball under the floors.\n\nThere are also theories about how they cannot be seen by anyone other than members of the family or how they can only be seen by children but not adults. There are stories about how when adults counted children, there would be 1 more person than there was originally, but as adults do not understand what zashiki-warashi are, they would not know who is the extra person. Stories like these also frequently appear as themes in literature.\n\nAn example of a very characteristic folk belief about how families with a \"zashiki-warashi\" would prosper and families whose \"zashiki-warashi\" have gone away would decline. This aspect shows that \"zashiki-warashi\" are like gods of fortune or protective spirits that rule over a family's prosperity and decline.\n\nIn the \"Tōno Monogatari\", there are tales such as one telling about how a family was wiped out by foodborne illness after its \"zashiki-warashi\" left it and another tale about how in the Iide section of the village of Tsuchibuchi, Iwate Prefecture (now part of the city of Tōno), a wealthy family's \"zashiki-warashi\" was shot by a kid with a bow and arrow causing it to leave the family and since then the family's fortunes declined. There is also the view that the way families would decline after a \"zashiki-warashi\" leaves it and the way families would prosper after a \"binbōgami\" leaves it are related.\n\nThere is the theory that a white \"zashiki-warashi\" is a sign of good things to come and the sight of a red one (with a red face, red clothes, and a red bucket in its hands) is a sign that a \"zashiki-warashi\" would leave the family leading to bad things to come. There are also examples where a family that saw a red-clothed one all died from foodborne illness.\n\n\"Zashiki-warashi\" are there in inner guestrooms (\"zashiki\"), and their existence is said to have an effect on the direction the family goes in, so there are some families that treat them hospitably and offer them meals every day. They are said to like \"azuki meshi\", so there are families that offer some \"azuki meshi\" every day, and if it is not eaten, it is said to be an omen for the family's decline. \"Zashiki-warashi\" generally work the same way as having kitsune or having inugami, but the difference between them and \"zashiki-warashi\" is that for a \"zashiki-warashi\" to live there is never considered a nuisance, and in fact they are even protected as gods, and a family that has a zashiki-warashi is usually treated by other people around with respect.\n\nIn the area around the city of Ninohe, there is a custom of making up a room with desserts and toys left inside for a child who had died or were killed as infants (infanticide), and giving worship to this child, a custom that remains to the present day, and there is also a custom of making a room that a child would like in order to make a \"zashiki-warashi\" stay at the house in order to bring the family to prosperity.\n\nAccording to the \"Tonō Monogatari\", the house of a certain wealthy family in the town of Tsuchibuchi had a small space that was called the \"Zatō room\", and it is considered to be the room that would be used to await the Zatō (a kind of member of the build persons' guild such as the tōdōza or a ranking of members of related groups such as the Anma, moxibustion practitions, and members of the \"biwa hōshi\", among other organizations) every time a banquet was called in the past, but the literary researcher Sukeyuki Miura surmises that perhaps this room was used to give worship to the god's protective spirit.\n\n\"Zashiki-warashi\" have various regional names such as \"zashiki-warabe\" (), \"zashiki-warashi\" (), \"zashiki-bokko\" (), \"okura-bokko\" (), \"zashiki-kozō\" (), and karako-warashi. The name \"zashiki-bokko\" is used in the inland regions of Iwate, and this name was also used in the writings of Kenji Miyazawa.\n\nThere are also regions and legends where \"zashiki-warashi\" have rankings, and in the \"Jippōan Yūreki Zakki\" (), there can be statements seen about \"zashiki-warashi\" in the area of Inase, Esashi, Iwate Prefecture (now Esashi District, Ōshū, and according to this, zashiki-warashi that are in a home's dirt floor room are called \"kometsuki-warashi\", \"notabariko\", \"usutsuriko\", among other names, and the white, most beautiful \"zashiki-warashi\" that is in the inner zashiki is called the \"chōpirako\". Among these, there are some that have no influence on the family's fortunes and instead merely move around the house making noises, and there are not merely a few that have been deemed creepy.\n\nThere are also some that have arms that are long and thin like vines, which they use to beckon people as well as warn of disasters like floods and tsunami, and these can be called \"hosode\" (細手, \"thin arms\") or \"hosode nagate\" (細手長手, \"thin arms long arms\"). There is also a similar story telling of how \"a poor man once threw firewood into the water, was invited into the dragon palace, and received as a gift an ugly-looking but fortune-bringing \"ryūkyū-warashi\" (dragon palace child)\". There are also \"zashiki-warashi\" that stay in the dozō, and they are called \"kura-warashi\" or \"kura-bokko\" (child of the storehouse).\n\nAccording to the essay \"Zashiki-warashi no Hanashi\" (, \"Stories about Zashiki-warashi\") by the folklorist Kizen Sasaki, in a certain home in the aforementioned village of Tsuchibuchi, there is a \"kabukire-warashi\" (tree stump child) that lives in the \"Mada no Ki\" (meaning \"Bodhi tree\") that is said to take on the appearance of a child and sneak into the family's \"zashiki\" to perform pranks on the family's daughter, as well as take on an appearance with a red face and play on walnut trees where the tree splits into three. It has also been interpreted to be a spirit of this Mada no Ki.\n\nDespite there being many legends of the \"zashiki-warashi\" in the Tōhoku region, there are not so many only in Akita Prefecture. This is said to be because Akita has the \"sankichi oni\", so lower-class yōkai would not enter Akita.\n\nAs mentioned previously, Kizen Sasaki noted that perhaps they are the spirits of children who were crushed to death and buried at the home. In the Tōhoku region, infanticide was called \"usugoro\" (, or \"mortar kill\"), and it is said that children who were killed this way to reduce the number of mouths to feed would be killed by being crushed by a stone mortar and there was a custom of buring them not with a grave, but in the dirt floor room (\"doma\") or in the kitchen, and it is said that the spirits of such children would on rainy days walk around outer edges shaking frighting the guests, which is said to be seen to resemble deeds similar to that of a \"zashiki-warashi\". The aforemtioned \"notabariko\" and \"usu-tsuki warashi\" are seen to be lower ranking among the \"zashiki-warashi\", and the former would peek out from the inner dirt floor (\"doma\") room and crawl around while the latter would use a mortar to make a sound, and due to creepy acts such as this, it is sometimes suggested that these kinds of \"zashiki-warashi\" have a relation to the fact that that the location where the infantide happened is in the dirt floor (\"doma\") room or underneath a mortar.\n\nIn addition to this relation to infanticide, the fact that the \"zashiki-warashi\" are in old homes as well as the fact that they are often told in relation to legends about how after a visiting Buddhist pilgrim from outside the village was killed, the family of the home came to ruin, so it has been suggested that these \"zashiki-warashi\" are signs of the dark undersides of the village's community.\n\nIn the \"Zashiki-warashi wo Mita Hitobito\" (, \"The People Who Saw Zashiki-Warashi\") by the author Sadako Takahashi, there are also stories about \"zashiki-warashi\" that came about as a curse that resulted from carpenters and tatami makers that weren't able to do their construction jobs in comfort, and it is said that there were rituals of taking a doll that had a bit of its wood peeled off and inserting them in between the pillars and beams.\n\nThere are also many theories that their true identity is that of a kappa, and there are stories of \"zashiki-warashi\" being a kappa that lived in the depths who would rise up and go into a nearby home to do pranks, as well as stories of zashiki-warashi that were kappa that have settled into a home.\n\nConcerning why \"zashiki-warashi\" look like children, seeing how in Buddhism there are \"gōhō-warashi\" (wrathful gods that protect Buddhism and take on the appearance of a child) have the appearance of a child, there is the theory that they come from folk beliefs in how children connected gods and humans, as well as the theory that the appearance of a child embodies divinity.\n\nIn Kunio Yanagita's view, just like the \"gōhō-warashi\" that were called forth from the heavens by high priests, the protective spirits of Buddhism and folk mikos are related to the faith in giving respect to the freshness of the spirits of young leaves, and this is related to the faith in the \"zashiki-warashi\" who became protective spirits of a home in order to convey the will of divinity to humans. In folkloristics after Yanagita as well, there has been debate on subjects such as the relation to Okunai-sama and the relation of children that come from another realm such as the \"Ryūgyū-warashi\" (dragon palace warashi), among other topics.\n\nAlso, the folklorist Kazuhiko Komatsu views \"warashi\" (children) from the point of view of cultural anthropology, and taking on the question of the fortune of homes and the movement of wealth within a village, he notes that \"zashiki-warashi\" share in almost all their characteristics with animal spirit possession such as \"izuna-tsukai\" (\"weasel-using\"), and from an analysis of the supremacy and inferiority within the community of families with a spirit haunting them, he notes that \"zashiki-warashi\" have been used as a basis for explaining changes in fortunes within folk society, especially for old homes and families.\n\nIn Ueda Akinari's late Edo-period \"yomihon\" the Ugetsu Monogatari, in the story \"Hinpuku-ron\" (Theory of Wealth and Poverty), in Mutsu Province (now Aomori Prefecture), in a certain home of a warrior family, a spirit of money appears in the form of an old man going by the name of \"Ōgon no Seirei\" (meanin \"golden spirit\") who said \"I'm glad you treat money as something important to you, so I came to tell a story\", but the doctor of letters Masamichi Abe gives the thought that perhaps this is an older, more prototypical type of \"zashiki-warashi\".\n\nTo the people of Tōhoku, the \"zashiki-warashi\" was certainly not a legend that came around after the war, and tales of \"zashiki-warashi\" were told even in the times of Meiji, Shōwa, and beyond. According to Kunio Yanagita's \"Yōkai Dangi\" (), it is said that in the year 1910 or Meiji 43 around the time of July, in the village of Tsuchibuchi (now Tōno, Iwate Prefecture) in Kamihei District, Rikuchū, a \"zashiki-warashi\" appeared at a school that was visible only to the first year students but not to the older students and adults.\n\nCertain ryokan that have continued to be managed in the Shōwa and Heisei periods and beyond such as the Ryokufūsō at the Kindaichi Onsen in Iwate Prefecture, the Sugawara Bekkan, and the Warabe both in Tenjin village in Morioka Prefecture are known to be lodges where a \"zashiki-warashi\" dwells, and there have been tales of guests who saw \"zashiki-warashi\", heard footsteps, were physically touched. However, unlike in the usual legends of \"zashiki-warashi\", the one at Ryokufūsō is considered to be an ancestor that died from an illness and became a protective spirit.\n\nClose to the Warabe, there is a Hayachine Shrine that was opened more than 1200 years ago, and it is said that since festivals for making prayers towards \"zashiki-warashi\" have been done ever since the establishment of the Warabe, the shrine's \"zashiki-warashi\" goes to the Warabe.\n\nThe zashiki-warashi of the Sugawara Bekkan was originally a god of fire of the Edo period that protected the proprietress's original home from fire, and it is said to have followed this proprietress when she married into the family of this establishment. There have also been tales about how guests to this ryokan have been successful in their marriage and jobs.\n\nSimilar to the \"zashiki-warashi\" are the \"zashiki-bōzu\" of Kadotani, Tōtōmi Province (now Shizuka Prefecture) and the akashaguma of Tokushima. Near one of the inner temples of the Kotohira-gū in Shikoku, it is said that at night time an \"akashaguma\" appears from a butsudan. \"Akashaguma\" refers to the fur of a bear that has been stained red, and it is said that a little childlike being wearing this would tickle the old woman owner of this house every night.\n\nIn the former Higashiyatsuhiro District in Yamanashi Prefecture, it is said that there is an \"okura-bōzu\" (, \"warehouse bonze\") that stays within the warehouse, and this is thought to be a type of \"zashiki-warashi\".\n\nIn Ishikawa Prefecture, there is the \"makuragaeshi\" and it is said that if one sleeps in the \"zashiki\" of a certain house, especially if one wields two swords, has hair that stands up, wears western clothing, and puts on a haughty face, then one would get dragged into a neighboring room.\n\nThe \"zashiki-warashi\" of Shirotori, Ōkawa District, Kagawa Prefecture (now part of Higashikawa), is told to appear as a little girl who is called \"oshobo\" due to the small, slight (\"shobo-shobo\" in Japanese) way it hangs, and sometimes it is said to be invisible to the members of the house, while other times it is said to be visible only to the members of this house.\n\nIn addition, in Hokkaido there is the \"ainukaisei\" said to attack people in their homes while they sleep, and in the Okinawa Prefecture there is a yōkai called the \"akagantaa\" said to play pranks on people in their homes while they sleep, and sometimes these are interpreted to be the same kind of beings as \"zashiki-warashi\".\n\nThe folklorist Shinobu Orikuchi enumerates examples such as the okunai-sama, the \"zashiki-bōzu\", the \"akashaguma\", the \"kijimuna\" of Okinawa, \"gaataro\" of Iki, etc., and sees in them examples of tales of a faithful spirit that came from another land to do work for a certain family whose disappearance would result in the decline of the family.　He notes how \"zashiki-warashi\" do not descend into the garden and suggests that this is related to how performing arts in the past had a division between \"garden\", \"zashiki\", and \"stage\".\n\nThe name breaks down to \"zashiki\" (Japanese: ), a sitting room or parlor, usually with tatami flooring, and \"warashi\" (Japanese: ), an archaic term for a child, used particularly in the northeast of Japan.\n\nThe appearance of this spirit is that of a 5 or 6 year child with bobbed hair and a red face. \"Zashiki-warashi\" can be found in well-maintained and preferably large old houses. It is said that once a \"zashiki warashi\" inhabits a house, it brings the residence great fortune; on the other hand, should a \"zashiki-warashi\" depart, the domain soon falls into a steep decline.\n\nAs the \"zashiki warashi\" is child-like in nature, it is prone to playing harmless pranks and occasionally causing mischief. They are known for running around and making noise, even adjusting the bedding of overnight guests. Sometimes they leave little footsteps in ashes. There are different variations as to who can see the \"zashiki-warashi\"; usually this is limited to inhabitants of the house, sometimes to children.\n\n\"Yōkai\" similar to \"zashiki-warashi\" in other parts of Japan include: the \"makuragaeshi\" in Ishikawa Prefecture – another creature which alters bedding; the \"ainukaisei\" in Hokkaido; and the \"akagantā\" found in Okinawa.\n\nThe Ryokufūsō in Kindaichi Onsen, which burned down on October 4, 2009, was famed for its \"zashiki warashi\".\n\nBy the end of November 2015, Mirror website offered video footage from a home video camera in Japan. That can capture the thing of what looks like a girl wearing a kimono walking in the house. But her body is translucent and can walk through the wall. Believe that she is \"zashiki-warashi\".\n\n\n\n"}
