{"id": "18589546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589546", "title": "Abstinence", "text": "Abstinence\n\nAbstinence is a self-enforced restraint from indulging in bodily activities that are widely experienced as giving pleasure. Most frequently, the term refers to sexual abstinence, or abstinence from alcohol or food. The practice can arise from religious prohibitions and practical considerations.\nAbstinence may also refer to drugs. For example, one can abstain from smoking.\nAbstinence has diverse forms. Commonly it refers to a temporary or partial abstinence from food, as in fasting. In the twelve-step program of Overeaters Anonymous abstinence is the term for refraining from compulsive eating, akin in meaning to sobriety for alcoholics. Because the regimen is intended to be a conscious act, freely chosen to enhance life, abstinence is sometimes distinguished from the psychological mechanism of repression. The latter is an unconscious state, having unhealthy consequences. Freud termed the channeling of sexual energies into other more culturally or socially acceptable activities, \"sublimation\".\n\nAbstinence may arise from an ascetic over indulgent, hasidic point of view in natural ways of procreation, present in most faiths, or from a subjective need for spiritual discipline. In its religious context, abstinence is meant to elevate the believer beyond the normal life of desire, to a chosen ideal, by following a path of renunciation.\n\nFor Jews, the principal day of fast is Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement.\n\nFor Muslims, the period of fasting lasts during the whole month of Ramadan, from dawn to dusk.\n\nBoth Jews and Muslims abstain from pork in their regular diet.\n\nIn both Christianity and Islam, amongst others, pre-marital sex is prohibited.\n\nAlso, Catholic Christians abstain from food and drink for an hour prior to taking Holy Communion, and abstain from meat on Ash Wednesday and on Fridays during Lent. Many Traditionalist Catholics abstain from eating meat all Fridays in the year. In the Anglican Communion, the Book of Common Prayer prescribes certain days as days for fasting and abstinence, \"consisting of the 40 days of Lent, the ember days, the three rogation days (the Monday to Wednesday following the Sunday after Ascension Day), and all Fridays in the year (except Christmas, if it falls on a Friday).\" Orthodox Christians abstain from food and drink from midnight on the day they receive Holy Communion, and abstain from meat and dairy on Wednesdays and Fridays throughout the year, as well as during Great Lent. Catholics distinguish between fasting and abstinence; the former referring to the discipline of taking one full meal a day, and the latter signifying the discipline of eating no meat (fish is allowed). Some Protestants, especially Methodists and Baptists, have preferred to abstain from drinking alcohol and the use of tobacco.\n\nMormons abstain from certain foods and drinks by combining spiritual discipline with health concerns. Mormons also fast one day a month, for both spiritual and charitable reasons (the money saved by skipping meals is donated to the needy). The Seventh-day Adventist Church encourages the consumption of only clean meats as specified in Leviticus and strongly discourages the consumption of alcohol, smoking, and the use of narcotics.\n\nIn India, Buddhists, Jains, Sikhs and Hindus abstain from eating meat and fish (basically, all living animals) on the grounds both of health and of reverence for all sentient forms of life. Total abstinence from feeding on the flesh of cows is a hallmark of Hinduism. In addition, lay and monastic Buddhists refrain from killing any living creature and from consuming intoxicants, and bhikkhus keep vows of chastity. In Theravada Buddhism, bhikkhus also refrain from eating in the afternoon, and cannot accept money. Jains abstain from violence in any form, and will not consume living creatures or kill bugs or insects.\n\nIn medicine, abstinence is the discontinuation of a drug, often an addictive one. This might, in addition to craving after the drug, be expressed as withdrawal syndromes. In the Basic Text of Narcotics Anonymous, a large fellowship following the 12-steps outlined by AA, NA is outlined to be \"a program of complete abstinence from all mood or mind-altering substances.\" This description includes alcohol, because alcohol is a drug, and is widely known to include any kind of prescription narcotics, like pain-killers (opiates), anti-anxiety medicine (benzodiazepines) or diet pills (amphetamines). The practice of abstinence is a learned behavior, and comes slowly over time - time spent listening and sharing in NA and AA meetings, behavioral health psychology group or individualized therapies, and hanging out with people in the recovery support community.\n\n\"Fasting\" is primarily the act of willingly abstaining from some or all food, drink, or both, for a period of time. A fast may be total or partial concerning that from which one fasts, and may be prolonged or intermittent as to the period of fasting. Fasting practices may preclude sexual activity as well as food, in addition to refraining from eating certain types or groups of foods; for example, one might refrain from eating meat.\nA complete fast in its traditional definition is abstinence of all food and liquids except for water.\n\n\"Vegetarianism\" is the practice of a diet that excludes meat (including game, marine mammals and slaughter by-products), poultry, fowl, fish, shellfish and other sea creatures.\nThere are several variants of the diet, some of which also exclude eggs or products produced from animal labour such as dairy products and honey.\n\n\"Smoking cessation\" is the action leading towards the discontinuation of the consumption of a smoked substance, mainly tobacco, but it may encompass cannabis and other substances as well.\n\n\"Teetotalism\" is the practice and promotion of complete abstinence from alcoholic beverages.\n\nSome common reasons for choosing teetotalism are religious, health, family, philosophical or social reasons, and, sometimes, as simply a matter of taste preference. When at drinking establishments, they either abstain from drinking or consume non-alcoholic beverages such as tea, coffee, water, juice, and soft drinks.\n\nContemporary and colloquial usage has somewhat expanded teetotalism to include strict abstinence from most \"recreational\" intoxicants (legal and illegal, see controlled substances). Most teetotaller organizations also demand from their members that they do not promote or produce alcoholic intoxicants.\n\nA general abstinence from pleasures or leisure, either partial or full, may be motivated by ambition, career or general self-respect (excluding the point of view that even the latter examples may be regarded as sources of pleasure).\n\nIt is widely accepted that abstinence from addictive drugs gives successful outcome. However, it is not certain whether a general abstinence from pleasures of leisure yields higher productivity. Too much work generates stress and its potential adverse effects. Furthermore, the effort itself to achieve abstinence may consume willpower from its ultimate purpose. Total abstinence from pleasure or leisure is practically impossible and instead an individual work-life balance is necessary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621", "title": "Aedicula", "text": "Aedicula\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, an aedicula (plural aediculae) is a small shrine. The word \"aedicula\" is the diminutive of the Latin \"aedes\", a temple building.\n\nMany aediculae were household shrines that held small altars or statues of the Lares and Penates. The Lares were Roman deities protecting the house and the family household gods. The Penates were originally patron gods (really genii) of the storeroom, later becoming household gods guarding the entire house.\n\nOther aediculae were small shrines within larger temples, usually set on a base, surmounted by a pediment and surrounded by columns. In Roman architecture the aedicula has this representative function in the society. They are installed in public buildings like the Triumphal arch, City gate, or Thermes. The Celsus Library in Ephesus (2. c. AD) is a good example. From the 4th century Christianization of the Roman Empire onwards such shrines, or the framework enclosing them, are often called by the Biblical term tabernacle, which becomes extended to any elaborated framework for a niche, window or picture.\n\nAs in Classical architecture, in Gothic architecture, too, an aedicule or tabernacle frame is a structural framing device that gives importance to its contents, whether an inscribed plaque, a cult object, a bust or the like, by assuming the tectonic vocabulary of a little building that sets it apart from the wall against which it is placed. A tabernacle frame on a wall serves similar hieratic functions as a free-standing, three-dimensional architectural baldaquin or a ciborium over an altar.\n\nIn Late Gothic settings, altarpieces and devotional images were customarily crowned with gables and canopies supported by clustered-column piers, echoing in small the architecture of Gothic churches. Painted ædicules frame figures from sacred history in initial letters of illuminated manuscripts.\n\nClassicizing architectonic structure and decor \"all'antica\", in the \"ancient [Roman] mode\", became a fashionable way to frame a painted or bas-relief portrait, or protect an expensive and precious mirror during the High Renaissance; Italian precedents were imitated in France, then in Spain, England and Germany during the later 16th century.\n\nAedicular door surrounds that are architecturally treated, with pilasters or columns flanking the doorway and an entablature even with a pediment over it came into use with the 16th century. In the neo-Palladian revival in Britain, architectonic aedicular or tabernacle frames, carved and gilded. are favourite schemes for English Palladian mirror frames of the late 1720s through the 1740s, by such designers as William Kent.\n\nSimilar small shrines, called \"naiskoi\", are found in Greek religion, but their use was strictly religious.\n\nAediculae exist today in Roman cemeteries as a part of funeral architecture.\n\nPresently the most famous aedicule is situated inside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in city of Jerusalem.\n\nContemporary American architect Charles Moore uses the concept of aediculae in his work to create spaces within spaces and to evoke the spiritual significance of the home.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8368262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8368262", "title": "Al-Arqam", "text": "Al-Arqam\n\nAl-Arqam is a Malaysian-based Islamic religious sect, founded by Ashaari Mohammad. The sect was banned by the Malaysian federal government on 21 October 1994. More than 5 Al-Arqam members including Ashaari Mohammad (leader of movement) were arrested under Internal Security Act (ISA) in Thailand and were flown back to Malaysia to be detained.\n\nThe sect is associated with the Global Ikhwan group of companies. Since the banning of Al-Arqam, a number of activities sponsored by the group have been attracted widespread media attention and criticism, including the \"Ikhwan Polygamy Club\" and the \"Obedient Wives Club,\" which have been seen as attempts to revive Al-Arqam.\n\nSome of the latest articles written on Al-arqam (written in Malaysian language) are listed at this Harian Metro site.\n\nTwo books written by Khadijah Aam, Ashaari Mohammad's wife, have been banned on religious grounds, including the claim that Ashaari Mohammad \"had been empowered by Allah with supernatural powers.\"\n\nThe movement, also known as Darul Arqam, started life as a relatively small group that withdrew into its own fairly remote peasant-style, self-contained community that practised strict adherence to an Islamic code and developed a home-based economy. In 1968, when Ashaari, who was an ex-government religious teacher, commenced a low profile \"halaqah\" (study group circle) at Datok Keramat, a Malay suburb of Kuala Lumpur.\n\nInitially, the group was better known as the Rumah Putih since the house where they met was painted white. In the initial two years of its existence, the group received negative and sometimes apprehensive public response as the members stood out in their attire of white robes. At one stage, the group was accused by its neighbourhood of being dakwah songsang which meant deviating from orthodox Islamic teachings and hence to be confronted. Yet the group grew and was attracting an increasing number of young Malays.\n\nOn 28 February 1971, the group decided to change its name to Darul Arqam, in memory of a companion to Prophet Muhammad, Arqam ibn Abi Arqam, who allowed his house in Makkah to be used as the early meeting place for Muslims. Ashaari and his followers attempted to join other dakwah groups such as the Jamaat al-tabligh and ABIM. They attempted to join the former but withdrew due to methodological and philosophical differences. Later they joined ABIM of which they enjoyed a cordial and friendly relationship. For instance, Ashaari himself was even offered a post as ABIM chief in Selangor of which he declined. He was later appointed ABIM chief of the dakwah bureau in the same state.\n\n1975 marked a new and significant chapter in Al-Arqam's history when the movement moved to a new and permanent premise in five-hectare land at Sungai Pencala, twenty kilometres northeast of Kuala Lumpur. The Arqam village at Sungai Pencala did not only become the main base but also became a model of an ideal Islamic village. The five-hectare land encompassed a mosque, a lecture hall, domitories, offices, a school, houses and shops. The movement's dakwah mission became more organised and were subsequently augmented by the publication of books, magazines, newspapers, and production of audio-visual materials.\n\nAl-Arqam was an urban based movement and its membership was heavily drawn from educated Malays. There was no official membership as members need not fill a form or pay a fee for one can be accepted into the fold as long as one subscribed to the rules of Islamic teachings, participated in the movement's programs and sacrificed oneself for the sake of religion, one automatically became an Arqam member. Hence, it is very difficult to give an accurate estimation of the membership numbers although it was estimated that prior to its ban the group had between 10,000 and 12,000 members excluding sympathies and associate members. It was also estimated that the movement had as many as 200,000 sympathizers.\n\nMany of those who joined the group were from peasant origins but it also attracted support from middle-class urban Malays, including those from the government service.\n\nAl-Arqam's organisational structure was called the Majlis Syuyukh. The administration was headed by Amir Muhammadiah, who was Ashaari himself whom in turn, was assisted by two deputies called Amir Representative One and Amir Representative Two. His three sons, Fakrul Razi (Amir's Representative 2), Mohd Nizamuddin (Assistant Representative of Principal Amir 1), Mohd Nasrullah (Deputy Amir 2) and his son-in-law Khairul Anuar Ujang (Vice Principal Amir 2) were securely placed in important positions.\n\nThe movement was perhaps famous for its approach to economics. Arqamomics refers to Al-Arqam approach to the economy – an approach that embraces Islamic philosophies, theories and practices. The three principles undergirding Arqamnomics were not to seek excessive profits or accumulate wealth, an Islamic economy were based on human energy, natural resources, expertise, knowledge, economic thinking, effort, consistency and prayers and finally, an economy free from riba (interest), monopoly, haram (forbidden sources), unpaid loans, fraud and deception.\n\nThe movement attempted to build a chain of business activities locally and abroad and it was considered successful in integrating its principles in almost every aspect of its economic activities. Al-Arqam's main emphasis was on producing halal (permissible) food which was managed by its Department of Economic Affairs. For almost 16 years from 1977 to 1994, Al-Arqam's economic activities were centred on the fardu kifayah economy which included halal food and beverages, retail outlets such as mini markets, groceries and book shops and a distribution centre.\n\nThe Arqam Group of Companies was officially launched in 1993, the movement expanded its economic activities to include commercial and strategic interests.Its technology industry, managed by the Science and Technology Department, ventured into the advanced technology by establishing Spectra Technology, a company which provided maintenance service to oil companies such as Esso Production, Shell Oil Refinery, Petronas Group of Companies and also a semi-government state utility company, Tenaga Nasional.\n\nArqam's Department of Agriculture acquired 20 acres of land to set up its Agricultural Complex Training Centre at Batu Hampar, Perak. The Department also owned a 20-acre paddy field in Penang and a 120-acre plantation in Sabah. It land assets were valued at RM 8.9 million whereas the value of its vehicle and machinery equipment reached RM 3.7 million. The movement also operated businesses and own properties in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Central Asia. In Indonesia, the movement set up soya and shoe factories at Tasik Malaya, hairdressing saloon and grocery stores in Jakarta and Medan and in Singapore, the movement ran a chain of grocery shops.\n\nAl-Arqam was focused on missionary activities and they were pursued domestically and internationally. Their missionary activities were performed in the form of religious discourse or talk which members or sympathizers of the movement would organise the religious discourse in their house. They would invite the people in the neighbourhood to attend it. Al-Arqam's base at Sungai Pencala would be another place to stage such religious discourses.\n\nThe main attraction of Arqam's religious talks was it leaders’ ability, especially Ashaari, to deliver lectures which attracted thousands of people all over Peninsular Malaysia. Arqam's missionary activities also expanded abroad as one of their goals was to open as many branches as possible. According to Muhammad Syukri Salleh (1995), Al-Arqam branches were set up with largely indigenous membership in Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Brunei, Britain, France, Germany, United States of America, Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Jordan, Egypt, Uzbekistan and China.\n\nAs technology improved, Al-Arqam's religious lectures were recorded and distributed by the movement's two companies – Tele-Video Arqam and Audio-Video-Arqam. Its cassettes and videos were sold in the thousands and prior to the ban, Al-Arqam nasyid (religious songs) group, Nada Murni, were regularly screened on the government-controlled television and radio station- Radio and Television Malaysia (RTM). With regards to the print media, Al-Arqam's official newspaper was first published in July 1977 in the Jawi script with the circulation of 25,000. All these media activities were administered by the movement's Department of Information.\n\nEducation was another important aspect of Al-Arqam's social activities. Administered by its Department of Guidance and Education, Al-Arqam's primary and secondary schools drew controversies as they were not formally registered with the state and had a different syllabus from the official national curriculum. It only emphasised on religious education. In 1994, the movement had 257 schools throughout Malaysia with an enrolment of 9541 students and 696 teachers. The movement also set up its own ‘university’ at Pekan Baru, Indonesia.\n\nAl-Arqam's social welfare model was premised on the concept of maasy (equality of income distribution based on needs). In this socialist-style arrangement, all members regardless of occupation received a salary based on needs. The nature of the job and qualification were not a factor in determining one's salary as the movement's maasy concept was based on the needs of the person concerned. For example, an electrician with five children would receive a higher income than a doctor with no children. Ashaari himself articulated that the movement was trying to maintain the ukhwah Islamiah (a bond of brotherhood) which aimed to distribute resources to the underprivileged and needy.\n\nIn 1986, the religious authorities was alarmed by Ashaari's book Aurad which claimed that Prophet Muhammad and the four caliphs not only could be met in a dream but also could be confronted physically and consciously in the real world. The government's Islamic Developmental Department (Jakim) argued that some facts and arguments were misleading and could jeopardise the beliefs of the Malaysian Muslims. The National Fatwa Committee proscribed the book in 1998. The ban turned into a political controversy when Ashaari refused to abide by it and challenged the decision.\n\nAshaari decided to leave the country when the issue was debated between the religious establishments and the mainstream media. There was a tug-of-war between Al-Arqam and JAKIM as the foreign-based Ashaari challenged the religious authority to prove that he was wrong. Although he was based abroad, several of Ashaari's books were published and circulated in Malaysia by Al-Arqam to defend the movement's position. The movement also presented an official clarification from Islamic scholars to justify their claim and amongst the scholars were the former Mufti of Brunei, a lecturer in Islamic Studies from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and several religious leaders from the pondok and madrasah systems.\n\nThe banning of the book Aurad was the beginning of a series of allegations against the movement. Accusations were also made on the widespread malpractice by the movements. According to a publication by Kedah Islamic Affairs Department, the alleged ‘unIslamic practices included the claim of Prophet Muhammad's attendance at the movement's spiritual healing service, Ashaari's claim that he could identify which member would go to heaven and Ashaari could act as the middle man to communicate with Syeikh Muhammad As-Suhaimi and in turn, the Syeikh can communicate with Prophet Muhammad. The authorities were most concerned with his ability to disseminate the idea that he was the great iman and had the ability to use magical power against the people opposing him. To strengthen his position in the movement and to win the admiration and respect from members of Al-Arqam, Ashaari made indirect self-proclamations that he was the direct descendent of Prophet Mohammed through the Bani Tamin tribe and his followers should address him as Syeikh Abuya Iman Ashaari Muhammad At-Tamini.\n\nThe absolute loyalty paid to Ashaari by his followers meant the leader was given a free hand to chart the social and religious discourse of the movement. The authorities were also particularly concerned by Ashaari's alleged interpretation of the Quran that a man was initially allowed to have two, then three and finally four wives. This was compared with the establishment's interpretation that a man was allowed to marry more than one wife only when the man was materially and physically stable and the man must love all his wives equally. Ashaari himself had four wives and reportedly fathered nearly forty children. The movement was also accused of performing marriages without the approval from the state Islamic affairs department.\n\nOn a more serious note, it has been claimed that Ashaari planned to form an Islamic government in Malaysia. The plan, according to close associates of Ashaari, was conceived from Ashaari's claims that he had regular contact with Mohammad and according to Ashaari, the prophet advised him on the eventual arrival of the Mahdi in Makkah with a caliph from Malaysia. Ashaari saw himself as the caliph in the region's empire and divided the administration of the region into Malaysia 1 and Malaysia 2. Malaysia 1 would comprise Peninsula Malaysia and the Borneo states of Sabah and Sarawak and Malaysia 2 covered Indonesia, Brunei, the Philippines and Singapore.\n\nAshaari himself created further political controversy with his claim that the Prophet and himself also discussed Malaysian politics, forecasting the eventual downfall of the Mahathir government within six months to six years. He also predicted if Malaysians go to a referendum, he would be more popular than the Prime Minister himself. However, Ashaari denied harnessing his movement toward anti-government activities and argued that everything he did was politics and all he wanted was to see a Malaysian society which loves God and is always mindful of the hereafter.\n\nTo add more complexities into the issue, some UMNO politicians were involved in the movement and as a result, the ruling party decided to conduct an investigation on several party leaders and members who were known to be Al-Arqam sympathizers. One MP, Tamrin Ghafar who is a son of former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Ghafar Baba, admitted he was a member of the group. From the UMNO-led government's point of view, these revelations proved that the movement was able to penetrate into the core of the Malaysian political system and garnered considerable sympathy inside the establishment. The government itself estimated that about 7000 civil servants were involved in the movement itself and after assessing the situation, the government decided to take action against the movement before the situation became beyond the authorities’ control. Thus in 1994, the National Fatwa Committee issued a religious decree against the organisation, citing the organisation as ‘deviant’ and ‘deviationist'.\n\nThe movement's apparent radicalism first alarmed the authorities when nineteen Malaysian students of Al-Arqam were arrested in Cairo for being allegedly associating with Islamic extremist groups in Egypt and further evidence revealed that the movement was preparing for armed rebellion. The plan was revealed by former member Abdul Aziz Wahab who was also an ex-Malaysian Navy Assistant Chief. According to the plan, Ashaari planned to stage a coup d’état in the country and Abdul Aziz Wahab would be appointed the Minister of Defence if their plan succeeded. Abdul Aziz Wahab developed misgivings about the plan when Ashaari suddenly decided to go for the umrah (small haj) to Mecca and he suspected should the plan fail, he would become the scapegoat while Ashaari escaped. Thus he decided to disclose the evidence to the police.\n\nThe authorities also disclosed that the movement had set up a 313-strong army called Tentera Badar believed to be trained in Thailand. However, Al-Arqam fiercely denied the allegations in a letter which highlighted that the accusation of the armed group being trained in Thailand implied that Thailand was supporting such an army and would undermine Thai-Malaysian relations. The letter also stated there was no physical evidence of this claim. The Thai government, through its Ambassador to Malaysia categorically denied the existence of the alleged army. Yet the Malaysian government countered the denials by revealing confessions from an Al-Arqam member Irshadi Abdullah who stated that he and several other Arqam members were among the first to undergo commando training. In an unusual twist, a deputy minister in the Prime Minister's Department Abdul Hamid Othman later admitted that the Army of Badar did not exist in physical terms but rather it was a psychological game inculcated in the mind of the movement's members to believe it actually existed.\n\nThe Malaysian government was able to convince the public of the danger posed by the movement by labelling Al-Arqam as a militant group and was actively exposing the deviant activities and teachings via the government-controlled media. It was labelled a cult and was compared with the David Koresh group.\n\nFinally, in September 1994, eighteen leaders were detained under the Internal Security Act (Malaysia). Ashaari himself was arrested by Thai authorities and returned to Malaysia. The leader was not arrested but was under house arrest and held incommunicado to all except for immediate family members. Ashaari would spend the next ten years in Labuan, a small island just off Borneo. The commune settlements were all closed and all former members prohibited from ‘intermingling’ to revive the movement.\n\nOutside Malaysia, the movement survived, including a large contingent of followers who moved to Singapore to build and operate a center in an area called the Malay Village in Geylang. Ashaari himself blamed Anwar Ibrahim for the repressive measures taken against Al-Arqam and predicted that the Deputy Prime Minister would pay a political price for this.\n\nAccording to governmental and news reports, it was believed that former members might be trying at reviving the movement via the ‘Rufuqa’ corporation. This group was founded by Ashaari in Rawang in spite of being under close surveillance by the state. It had 80 businesses under its wing in Malaysia: mini markets, cafetarias, herbal products, tourism, advertising, furniture, clinics, electronic and multimedia, childcare centres and publishing. According to a former member Sheikh Hussein Sheikh Omar, most of the group's businesses are not profitable and they exist to recruit new members to revive Al-Arqam. He also mentioned that employees were not paid salaries but rather channel the earnings to the leaders for a place in heaven.\n\nIn November 2006, the Malaysian government raided the upper floor of a bakery and arrested more than 100 people believed to be attempting to revive Al-Arqam. The authorities subsequently outlawed the group in December the same year. Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi said that legal action would be taken against anyone who tried to re-establish the Al-Arqam.\n\n"}
{"id": "4411818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411818", "title": "Aniconism in Judaism", "text": "Aniconism in Judaism\n\nAniconism in Judaism covers a number of areas. The portrayal of YHWH in any kind of human or concrete form is not encouraged.\nA number of verses in the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) refer to prohibitions against the creation of various forms of images, invariably linked directly with idolatry. The strongest over-all source is based on what Judaism counts as the second of the Ten Commandments:\n\nThis prohibition is widespread. For instance, Leviticus 26:1 reads:\n\nSimilar injunctions appear in Numbers 33:52, Deuteronomy 4:16, and 27:15; in all cases, the creation of the image is associated with idolatry, and indeed, the words commonly translated as \"image\" or some variant thereof (פסל \"pesel\", שקוץ \"shikuts\") are generally used interchangeably with words typically translated as \"idol\" (e.g., אליל \"elil\"). (An important exception is צלם \"tselem\", used in such verses as Genesis 1:26: \"let us make man in our image\"; this word was not associated with idols.)\n\nBased on these prohibitions, the Hebrew prophets, such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos, and others, preached very strongly against idolatry. In many of their sermons, as recorded in the biblical books bearing their names, the prophets regarded the use of religious images as a negative sign of assimilation into the surrounding pagan cultures of the time. The Torah permits drawing of humans as long as they are not used for idolatry.\n\nDespite the semantic association with idols, Halakha (\"Jewish law\") as taught by the Shulkhan Arukh (\"Code of Jewish Law\") and practiced and applied by Conservative Judaism and Orthodox Judaism today, interprets the verses as prohibiting the creation of certain types of graven images of people, angels, or astronomical bodies, whether or not they are actually used as idols. The Shulkhan Arukh states: \"It is forbidden to make complete solid or raised images of people or angels, or any images of heavenly bodies except for purposes of study\". (\"Heavenly bodies\" are included here because the stars and planets were worshipped by some religions in human forms. Astronomical models for scientific purposes are permitted under the category of \"study.\")\nAn authoritative breakdown can be found in the \"Shulkhan Arukh,\" section \"yoreh deah\" which takes the literal meaning of פסל \"pesel\" as \"graven image\" (from the root פסל P-S-L, \"to engrave.\" See Exodus 34:1, 4; Deuteronomy 10:1, 3.) The prohibition is therefore seen as applying specifically to certain forms of sculpture and depictions of the human face. In keeping with this prohibition, some illustrations from the Middle Ages feature fantastic creatures—usually animal-headed humanoids, even when the depictions are quite clearly meant to be those of historical or mythological humans. The most well-known is the Birds' Head Haggadah (Germany, circa 1300). Because such creatures as gryphons, harpies, sphinxes, and the phoenix do not actually exist, no violation of the prohibition is perceived in such depictions. This is based on the fact that the Second Commandment, as stated in Exodus, refers specifically to \"anything in the heaven above, on the earth below, or in the water below the land.\" However, it is forbidden to make the four faces on the Divine Chariot (Ezekiel× I) or the ministering angels, because these are believed to be real beings that actually exist \"in the heaven above.\" (\"Kitzur Shulkhan Arukh\" 168:1)\n\nAlthough the prohibition applies mainly to sculpture, there are some authorities who prohibit two-dimensional full-face depictions. Some base this upon their understanding of the Talmud, and others based it upon Kabbalah. Of note is the portrait of Rabbi Tzvi Ashkenazi (known as \"the Hakham Tzvi\"), which is housed in the Jewish Museum in London. Based his interpretation of this prohibition, the Hakham Tzvi refused to sit for his portrait. However, the London Jewish Community wanted a portrait, so they commissioned the portrait to be done without the Hakham Tzvi's knowledge. The Hakham Tzvi's son, Rabbi Jacob Emden, says it was a perfect likeness.\n\nAdditionally, there is one type of representation, namely, bas-relief or raised representation on a flat surface, that is particularly problematic. Rabbi Jacob Emden discusses a medal struck in honor of Rabbi Eliezer Horowitz that features Horowitz's portrait. Emden ruled this violated the injunction against depictions. Furthermore, many hold that such representations in the synagogue either violate this injunction or are not permitted, as they give the appearance of violating this injunction. Most notably, Rabbi David ibn Zimra and Rabbi Joseph Karo hold that carvings of lions (e.g., representing the Lion of Judah) are inappropriate in synagogues.\n\nOn the other hand, some authorities hold that Judaism has no objection to photography or other forms of two-dimensional art, and depictions of humans can be seen in religious books such as the Passover Haggadah, as well as children's books about biblical and historical personages. Although most Hasidic Jews object to having televisions in their homes, this is not related to prohibitions against idolatry, but, rather, to the content of network and cable programming. Hasidim of all groups regularly display portraits of their Rebbes, and, in some communities, the children trade \"rabbi cards\" that are similar to baseball cards. In both Hasidic and Orthodox Judaism, taking photographs or filming are forbidden on the Sabbath and Jewish holy days, but this prohibition has nothing to do with idolatry. Rather, it is related to the prohibition against working or creating on these days.\n\nIn practice, many Jews throughout history have either accepted more permissive interpretations of the prohibition, or partly ignored it. Many art historians have long believed that there was a tradition in antiquity, with no surviving examples, of luxury illuminated manuscript scrolls of books from the Tanakh among Hellenized Jews. The evidence for this is Christian works of the Late Antique and Early Medieval periods whose iconography is thought to derive from works in this tradition. Examples of the later works include the Joshua Roll and, more controversially, the Utrecht Psalter.\n\nNonetheless, the discovery in 1932 of the 3rd century Dura-Europos synagogue in Syria came as a considerable surprise, as it has large areas of wall-paintings with figures of the prophets and others, and narrative scenes. There are several representations of the Hand of God, suggesting that this motif reached Christian art from Judaism. A virtually unique Christian mosaic depiction of the \"Ark of the Covenant\" (806) at Germigny-des-Prés, which includes the hand, is believed also to be derived from Jewish iconography; the Ark also appears at Dura-Europos. Several ancient synagogues in Israel have also been excavated, revealing large floor-mosaics with figurative elements, especially animals and Hellenistic representations of the Zodiac. However, some of these, notably that at Naaran in the West Bank, have had the living figures removed, leaving inanimate symbols such as the menorah intact. It has been proposed that this was done by the Jewish community in the 6th or early 7th century, as part of a controversy within Judaism over images that paralleled that within Christianity leading to the Byzantine iconoclasm, leading to a stricter attitude towards images, at least in synagogues. There is also evidence that from about 570 new synagogue mosaics were aniconic. An alternative explanation for the removals is that they were done after the Muslim Conquest, and related to the decree of Caliph Yazid II in 721 (although this referred to Christian images). The decoration of the cave walls and sarcophagi at the Jewish cemetery at Beit She'arim also uses images, some drawn from Hellenistic pagan mythology, in the 2nd to 4th centuries CE.\n\nThere are many later Jewish illuminated manuscripts from the Middle Ages, and some other works with human figures. The \"Birds Head Haggadah\" (German, now in Jerusalem) gives all the human figures the heads of birds, presumably in an attempt to mitigate any breach of the prohibition.\n\nAlthough, in biblical times, Jews were actively iconoclasts, physically tearing down and destroying idols of other religions located within their political jurisdiction, today there is more tolerance for other cultures. In the state of Israel, all religious sites, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, are protected by law. Even though Jewish Law teaches that idolatry is forbidden to all of humanity as one of the seven Noahide Laws, Jews today combat it through discussion, debate, and education, rather than the physical destruction of statues and shrines. However, most traditional Jews still follow the prohibitions against entering places of idolatry, and will not attend functions held in buildings where there are religious statues.\n\nIn a refutation of the belief in an aniconic Judaism, and more generally in an underestimation of Jewish visual arts, the historian of ideas Kalman Bland recently proposed that the phenomenon is a modern construction, and that \"Jewish aniconism crystallized simultaneously with the construction of modern Jewish identities\". Others have also argued that the notion of a total prohibition of figural representation in the Biblical and Hellenistic-Roman periods is untenable.\n\nUntil the 20th century, Judaism was believed always to have been aniconic. The view was probably first challenged by Dávid Kaufmann, who marshalled a large and comprehensive corpus of data in order to prove it untenable. He was the first to use the term “Jewish art” in an article published in 1878, and is regarded as the founder of the scholarly discipline of Jewish art history. His disciple Dr. Samuel Krauss wrote in 1901:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13139302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13139302", "title": "Archchaplain", "text": "Archchaplain\n\nAn Archchaplain is a cleric with a senior position in a royal court. The title was used in the Frankish kingdom in the Carolingian period.\n"}
{"id": "3886626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3886626", "title": "B. S. Yeddyurappa", "text": "B. S. Yeddyurappa\n\nBookanakere Siddalingappa Yeddyurappa (born 27 February 1943) is an Indian politician who serves as the Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly since May 2018. He has served three times as Chief Minister of Karnataka and is the BJP state president.\n\nIn 2008, Yeddyurappa became the Chief Minister after leading the BJP to a victory in the Karnataka Assembly elections, a first for the BJP in a South Indian state. In 2011, Owing to alleged ill-treatment meted out to Yeddyurappa by the BJP High Command, he left BJP and formed his own party, the Karnataka Janata Paksha. However, in 2014 he merged his party with the BJP and was subsequently elected to the 16th Lok Sabha from the Shimoga constituency, which he quit after being elected to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly in May 2018. On 17 May 2018, he was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, his third term in the office. Unable to get a majority support in the Assembly, he resigned just two days after taking office. He is popularly known as \"Raitha Bandhu\" for his pro-farmer policies, initiatives like separate agriculture budget in Karnataka Government during his chief ministership.\n\nYeddyurappa was born on 27 February 1943 in a village called Bookanakere in K.R.Pet taluk of Mandya district. His parents were Siddalingappa and Puttathayamma. He was named after the presiding deity of a Shaivite temple built by the great saint Siddalingeshwara at Yediyur in Tumkuru district. His mother died when he was four. He completed his Pre-University College education from PES college, Mandya.\n\nIn 1965, he was appointed as a first-division clerk in the social welfare department but he quit the job and moved to Shikaripura where he joined as a clerk at Veerabhadra Shastri's Shankar rice mill. In 1967, Yeddyurappa married Mythradevi, the daughter of the rice mill owner. He later set up a hardware shop in Shivamogga. Yeddyurappa has two sons, Raghavendra, Vijayendra and three daughters, Arunadevi, Padmavati and Umadevi. In 2004, his wife died after falling into a sump while drawing water. In 2007, he changed the spelling of his name to its current spelling from the earlier \"Yediyurappa\" following the advice of his astrologers. He is a proud follower of Basavanna.\n\nHaving been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh from his college days, Yeddyurappa's public service began when he was appointed as Karyavaha (Secretary) of the Sangh's Shikaripur unit in 1970. In 1972, he was elected to the Shikaripura Town Municipality and was also appointed as the President of the Taluk unit of the Jana Sangh. In 1975, he was elected President of the Town Municipality of Shikaripura. He was imprisoned during the Emergency in India and lodged in the Bellary and Shimoga jails. In 1980, he was appointed President of the Shikaripura taluk unit of the BJP and later went on to become the president of BJP's Shimoga district unit in 1985. In 1988, he became the State President of the BJP in Karnataka. He was first elected to the lower house of the Karnataka Legislature in 1983 and has since represented the Shikaripura constituency six times. He has been a member of the Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Twelfth and Thirteenth Legislative Assemblies (lower house) of Karnataka. Following the 1994 state assembly elections, he became the Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. In 1999, he lost the elections but was nominated by the BJP to become a member of the legislative council (upper house) of Karnataka. Again, he was re-elected in 2004 and became the Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly during the chief ministership of Dharam Singh.\n\nHis first stint in power when he helped was Janata Dal (Secular) leader H. D. Kumaraswamy to bring down the coalition government headed by Dharam Singh and form an alternative government with BJP. An agreement was made between the JD(S) and BJP, which specified that H. D. Kumaraswamy would be the Chief Minister for the first 20 months, after which Yeddyurappa would become the Chief Minister for the remaining 20 months. Yeddyurappa became the Deputy Chief Minister as well as the finance minister in Kumaraswamy's Government.\n\nHowever, in October 2007, when it was Yeddyurappa's turn to become Chief Minister, Kumaraswamy refused to relinquish his post. This forced Yeddyurappa and all the ministers from his party to resign and on 5 October, the BJP formally withdrew the support to the Kumaraswamy government. Karnataka came under President's rule which was revoked on 7 November as the JD(S) and the BJP decided to bury their differences and this paved the way for Yeddyurappa to become the Chief Minister of Karnataka. Yeddyurappa was sworn in as the 25th Chief Minister of Karnataka on 12 November 2007. However, JD(S) refused to support his government over disagreement on sharing of ministries which resulted in his resignation as Chief Minister on 19 November 2007.\n\nIn Karnataka's 2008 Assembly elections, Yeddyurappa contested from Shikaripura against former Chief Minister S. Bangarappa of the Samajwadi Party. The Indian National Congress and JD(S) backed Bangarappa, but despite this, Yeddyurappa won the seat by a margin of more than 45,000 votes. He also led the BJP to a historic victory in the state and Karnataka became the gateway for the BJP in south India. He took the oath of office as Chief Minister on 30 May 2008.\n\nHowever, the Karnataka Lokayukta investigating the illegal mining case submitted its report indicting Yeddyurappa for illegally profiteering from land deals in Bangalore and Shimoga, and also in connection with the illegal iron ore export scam in Bellary, Tumkur and Chitradurga districts of Karnataka. Following much pressure from the BJP central leadership, he announced his decision to quit. Finally, he resigned on 31 July 2011.\n\nHe resigned from his position as Member of Legislative Assembly and primary membership of Bharatiya Janata Party on 30 November 2012, and formally launched the Karnataka Janata Paksha. It is told that his former colleague and senior BJP leader Anna Vinayachandra was the key person who led the movement at national level to demand expulsion from the party which led to his resignation. Although the party and its name were registered in April 2011, Yeddyurappa actually launched it in 2012. He got elected as an MLA from Shikaripura Constituency (Shivamogga district) in May 2013.\n\nIn November 2013, it was announced that he was considering an unconditional return to the BJP. On 2 January 2014 he announced merger with BJP ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He won from the Shimoga seat of Karnataka in the Indian general election, 2014 by a margin of 363,305 votes.\n\nIn 2016, BJP re-appointed him as the President of Karnataka state BJP unit. He was BJP's CM candidate in Karnataka Legislative Assembly election, 2018. But the party managed to win only 104 seats, 9 short of simple majority.\n\nDuring the aftermath of the 2018 Karnataka Legislative assembly elections, Yeddurappa was invited to form the government and become the Chief Minister by the Governor citing that his party was the single largest in the house with 104 seats(8 short of majority in the assembly). He was sworn in on 17 May 2018 by the Governor Vajubhai Vala, becoming the Chief minister of Karnataka for the third time. He was given 15 days to prove majority by the governor but the Supreme Court intervened and cut it short to just 24 hours and ordered a floor test(trust vote) soon after. The trust vote was to be held on 19 May 2018 at 4pm. Before the trust vote was to begin, however, Chief Minister B. S Yeddyurappa gave an emotional speech, following which he resigned citing that he will be unable to prove majority. He thus became one of the shortest serving chief minister in India with just 2½ days in office.\n\nCourt cases and Outcome :-\n\nIn five cases issued in 2011, Yeddyurappa was alleged to be responsible for Illegal de-notification of land. He was jailed during this term and was convicted of corruption.The Karnataka High-court in 2015 set aside this order, thereby quashing the cases against him. After the high court quashed former governor HR Bhardwaj’s sanction to prosecute BS Yeddyurappa, a special Lokayukta court struck down four other FIRs against him. In a major relief to Yeddyurappa and BJP, Karnataka High Court had set aside the sanction given by then Governor HR Bhardwaj for his prosecution in several cases of alleged illegal de-notification of land, and asked the incumbent Vajubhai Vala to have a fresh look at it.\n\nThe High Court said:\"Non-consideration of the relevant matters made the order of sanction illegal and resulted in failure of justice. We are thus of the opinion that the exercise of the power by the Governor was not in accordance with well-settled principles for sanctioning prosecution. We accordingly set aside the order of sanction, dated January 21, 2011, and remit the matter back to his Excellency, the Governor for reconsideration in the light of our discussions above.\"\n\nYeddyurappa was arrested on the evening of 15 Oct 2011, hours after the Lokayukta court issued an arrest warrant in two cases of corruption for illegally denotifying land in and around Bangalore. Later, he was granted bail on 8 November 2011 after spending 23 days in jail.\n\nHowever, in March 2012, the High Court of Karnataka quashed the FIR registered against him regarding the Mining . A division bench of high court of Karnataka passed the order stating that \"Suspicion cannot be a ground to tarnish the image and reputation of a person who is holding a Constitutional post. Even during the course of argument, a specific question was put to Lokayukta counsel to produce any material to connect the petitioner for alleged offences, but he was mum and did not indicate any favours shown by Yeddyurappa as the chief minister to any mining company\".\nIn May 2012, the Supreme Court, temporarily stayed the case on this matter and ordered an official CBI enquiry, to be completed within three months.\nOn 25 July 2012, Karnataka High Court granted anticipatory bail to Yeddyurappa in a case relating to alleged irregularities in denotification of government land in 2009.\n\nOther cases rejected by the Court were:\n\n"}
{"id": "24078435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24078435", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The eighth and twelfth of the tablets mentioned Africa and were written on April 19, 1916 and February 15, 1917, respectively. Publication however was delayed in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions Bahá'ís traveling \"...especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Germany teachers and believers may travel to the continents of America, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all the continents and islands of the globe\" and \" ...the anthem of the oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all the children of men, and the tabernacle of universal peace be pitched on the apex of America; thus Europe and Africa may become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new exhilaration...\"\n\nShoghi Effendi, head of the religion after the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá, and his wife, Rúhíyyih Khanum may have been the first Bahá'ís to visit Congo when they drove across the eastern part of the country in 1940.\n\nIn 1953 Shoghi Effendi planned an international teaching plan termed the Ten Year Crusade. This was during a period of wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa near the end of the period of Colonisation of Africa. Before 1953, colonial authorities of what was then the Belgian Congo did not permit the promotion of religion by Bahá'í pioneers however Ali Nakhjavani and his wife, Violette, driving across Africa from the growing Bahá'í community in Uganda, were able to take a Ugandan Bahá'í Samson Mungongo to the city of Kamina where he settled and began to teach the religion while suffering hostility, suspiciousness and superstition. The first converts were Louis Selemani, Remy Kalonji, and Valerien Mukendi - they, with a dozen pioneers from Europe, North America and other parts of Africa, and Congolese who had become Bahá'ís in Rwanda and Burundi who moved back to their home provinces - all these formed the basis of the quickly growing community.\n\nIn April 1956 the Bahá'í Faith was present in small numbers across countries of middle Africa. To administer these communities a regional National Spiritual Assembly was elected in Central and East Africa to cover them. The first Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1957.\n\nThe Eastern Belgian Congo, as part of the experience across central Africa west to east and to the south began to have qualities of mass conversion. In the areas under the jurisdiction of the regional National Assembly of South and West Africa, south of Congo, there was a gain of over sixty percent in the total number of adherents of the Faith just in 1959, and rates like this continued for a few more years. Pygmies in Congo were among the converts in 1961, one of whom was a delegate to the election of the regional assembly in 1962. Circa 1961 Bahá'í sources indicate about 1000 members. By the spring of 1962 there was widespread knowledge of many more Bahá'ís and about November 1962 the National Spiritual Assembly of Central and West Africa was claiming over 14,000 people had converted to the religion. By the end of 1963 local assemblies were in 143 localities. The majority of growth happened in the province of Kivu Major growth was announced as early as 1962. Later some also occurred in the province of Shaba in the 1970s when the community grew from about 5 individuals to enough to support 25 local assemblies in 1973.\n\nFollowing the death of Shoghi Effendi, the elected Universal House of Justice was head of the religion and began to re-organized the Bahá'í communities of Africa by splitting off national communities to form their own National Assemblies from 1967 though the 1990s. From January to March 1970 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum crossed Africa from east to west visiting many of these country's communities including the Congo, meeting with individuals and institutions both Bahá'í and civic. The first National Spiritual Assembly of Zaire (current name of the country) formed in 1970 during this trip. Rúhíyyih Khanum's second visit was in January 1972 and traveled almost 3,000 miles through central and southern Zaire by river boat and automobile.\n\nMembers of the Bahá'í Faith first entered the Province of Kivu about November 1959 from Uganda where the religion had grown quickly. Whole villages turned out to listen to presentations on the religion and growth continued through the 1960s. After visiting Zaire a couple times in the 1970s a third visit by Rúhíyyih Khanum in late 1972 focused on the province of Kivu where the majority of Bahá'ís of Zaire were to be found - some 600 assemblies being elected across some 30,000 Bahá'ís in 1972 (compared to about 3000 Bahá'ís in the rest of the Congo at the same time.) In fact most of these Bahá'ís in Kivu were in the southern half of the province, or modern day South Kivu. In the Kivu region in a five-year period in the 1970s there were 9 women's conferences under the authority of assemblies or committees of assemblies, institutes were developed to train over 100 teachers for Bahá'í schools that were sanctioned by the government educational bureau.\n\nHowever, as part of a sweep across several Sub-Saharan countries, the Bahá'í Faith was banned in the 1970s in several countries: Burundi, 1974; Mali 1976; Uganda 1977; Congo, 1978; Niger, 1978.\n\n\"This was principally the result of a campaign by a number of Arab countries. Since these countries were also by this time providers of development aid, this overt attack on the Baha'is was supported by covert moves such as linking the aid money to a particular country to the action that it took against the Baha'is. This was partially successful and a number of countries did ban the Baha'is for a time. However, the Baha'is were able to demonstrate to these governments that they were not agents of Zionism nor anti-Islamic and succeeded in having the ban reversed in all of these countries except Niger.\" See also Allegations of Bahá'í involvement with other powers\n\nWhile the national organization of the Bahá'ís was disbanded local and regional administration continued. In 1982 the Bahá`í Administrative Committee for Central South Zaire in Lubumbashi published a work commemorating Bahíyyih Khánum. Bahá'í pioneers continued to arrive. In 1983 a local TV program in Kivu featured a presentation on the religion was followed up by a showing of the film\"The Green Light Expedition\" about Rúhíyyih Khanum's trip up the Amazon River. After some years of service and growth the Bahá'í community was able to re-elect its National Assembly in 1987.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. In Zaire in 1983 a tutorial school in Bangwade, Upper Zaire was founded. A survey of projects in 1985 found: agriculture project and literacy center, Kawayongo under its local assembly, educational centers emphasizing functional literacy training for children and adults, augmented by health education and instruction on improving agricultural productivity, a program providing training in nutrition and preventive medicine in NE Zaire, a literacy training program in Goma, a project among the Pygmies to improve literacy and numeracy, health care and agriculture, a teacher training center in northeastern Zaire for French speaking Bahá'í teachers for children's classes, pre-schools and tutorial schools, a training program for the Baha'is to increase agricultural productivity and a project where three senior students from the University of Zaire trained in rural development would spend four months assessing community needs and teaching modern methods of animal keeping, the use of improved seeds, fish culture, and disease prevention methods. In 1986 the provincial governor visited a school project among the Bahá'í Pygmies. By 1987 the Bahá'ís organized the Regional Committee for Social and Economic Development under the national assembly for the region of Kivu (using the acronym \"CREDESE\"). One hundred and two learning centers were reported in October 1987 operating under CREDESE. There were 2,500 participants across Kivu. Women and girls comprised 73 percent of the students, and 27 percent were not members of the Bahá'í Faith. CREDESE was based on work from a Bahá'í Kenyan and Tanzanian project. In 1989 Bahá'ís engaged in a study reviewing the effect of the religion in the prospects of fighting the growth of AIDS in Kinshasa.\n\nHaving survived legal proscription, and periods of war, the Second Congo War prevented the national institution from meeting from 1998 to 2003. The Bahá'ís have continued to develop internal and external projects. The Congo Baha'i Youth Choir sang at a devotional program at the base of the Terraces on Mount Carmel. It later evolved into the \"Celebration! Congo Choir\" which performed at The Kennedy Center in 2005. In 2000 some Bahá'ís studied the relationship between the Bahá'í teachings and conservation efforts in the Congo. In 2012 the Universal House of Justice announced plans to build two national Bahá'í Houses of Worship aside from the continental ones. One of these was for the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nWorld Christian Encyclopedia estimated in 2000 there were 224 000 Bahá'ís in the Congo. Association of Religion Data Archives estimated in 2001 that there were 0.4%, or about 250 000 Bahá'ís. In 2003 there were some 541 assemblies. For many years the community was mostly male - but more recently about one third of Bahá'ís are women. By 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives revised their estimated to some 290 899 Bahá'ís\n\n\n"}
{"id": "847328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847328", "title": "Baraat", "text": "Baraat\n\nBaraat (; ) is a groom's wedding procession in North India, West India and Pakistan. In North Indian communities, it is customary for the bridegroom to travel to the wedding venue (often the bride's house) on a mare, accompanied by his family members.\n\nThe \"baraat\" can become a large procession, with booking its own band, dancers, and budget. The groom and his horse are covered in finery and do not usually take part in the dancing and singing; that is left to the \"baraatis\" or people accompanying the procession. The groom usually carries a sword. The term \"baraati\" is also more generically used to describe any invitee from the groom's side. Traditionally, \"baraatis\" are attended to as guests of the bride's family.\n\nThe \"baraat\", headed by a display of fireworks and accompanied by the rhythm of the dhol, reaches the meeting point, where the elders of both the families meet. In North Indian Hindu weddings, the groom is greeted with garlands and aarti. In traditional North Indian weddings, \"baraats\" are welcomed at the wedding venue with the sound of \"shehnais\", which are considered auspicious at weddings by Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs alike.\n\nBoth men and women participate in the procession of a Punjabi \"baraat\". Close male relatives of both the bride and groom always wear turbans, which indicates honor. When the \"baraat\" arrives at the wedding venue, a ceremony known as the \"milni\" (literally, \"meeting\" or \"merger\") is carried out, in which equivalent relatives from the groom and bride's sides greet each other. This usually begins with the two fathers, followed by the two mothers, then the siblings, uncles, aunts and cousins; even distant relatives are included in the \"milni\", which symbolizes the unification of the two clans.\n\nA Rajput \"baraat\" was consisted entirely of male members but now female members also give company. The bridegroom is usually dressed in a gold achkan, with an orange turban and a churidar or jodhpurs with jootis. The baraat members also must wear achkans or sherwanis with jodhpurs and safas (colorful turbans). The procession to the bride's house looks rather regal as there is absolutely no dancing on the streets by the baraatis. In fact, all members, including the groom who rides an elephant or a female horse, carry swords. The horse is important for the Rajputs.\nThe Milni\n\nA simple ceremony takes place and both families exchange well wishes on meeting each other. This is followed by light snacks and tea before the religious ceremony begins.\n\nA mother & daughter enjoy the moment. \nOne by one designated family members exchange garlands and a hug.\n\nThe groom distributes Karah Prashad (ceremonial sacremental pudding) to his family.\n\nEveryone then enjoys a grand feast.\n\n"}
{"id": "462109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462109", "title": "Bhikkhu", "text": "Bhikkhu\n\nA bhikkhu (Pali; Sanskrit: bhikṣu) is an ordained male monastic (\"monk\") in Buddhism. Male and female monastics (\"nun\", \"bhikkhuni\", Sanskrit \"bhikṣuṇī\") are members of the Buddhist community.\n\nThe lives of all Buddhist monastics are governed by a set of rules called the prātimokṣa or pātimokkha. Their lifestyles are shaped to support their spiritual practice: to live a simple and meditative life and attain nirvana.\n\nA person under the age of 20 cannot be ordained as a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni but can be ordained as a śrāmaṇera or śrāmaṇērī.\n\n\"Bhikkhu\" literally means \"beggar\" or \"one who lives by alms\". The historical Buddha, Prince Siddhartha, having abandoned a life of pleasure and status, lived as an alms mendicant as part of his śramaṇa lifestyle. Those of his more serious students who renounced their lives as householders and came to study full-time under his supervision also adopted this lifestyle. These full-time student members of the sangha became the community of ordained monastics who wandered from town to city throughout the year, living off alms and stopping in one place only for the Vassa, the rainy months of the monsoon season.\n\nIn the \"Dhammapada\" commentary of Buddhaghoṣa, a bhikkhu is defined as \"the person who sees danger (in samsara or cycle of rebirth)\" (Pāli: \"ikkhatīti: bhikkhu\"). He therefore seeks ordination to obtain release from it. The \"Dhammapada\" states:\n\nFor historical reasons, the full ordination of women has been unavailable to Theravada and Vajrayana practitioners, although recently the full ordination for women has been reintroduced to many areas.\n\nIn English literature before the mid-20th century, Buddhist monks were often referred to by the term \"bonze\", particularly when describing monks from East Asia and French Indochina. This term is derived Portuguese and French . It is rare in modern literature.\n\nBuddhist monks were once called \"talapoy\" or \"talapoin\" , itself , ultimately .\n\nThe talapoin is a monkey named after Buddhist monks just as the capuchin monkey is named after the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin (who also are the origin of the word cappuccino).\n\nTheravada monasticism is organized around the guidelines found within a division of the Pāli Canon called the \"Vinaya Pitaka\". Laypeople undergo ordination as a novitiate (śrāmaṇera or sāmanera) in a rite known as the \"going forth\" (Pali: \"pabbajja\"). Sāmaneras are subject to the Ten Precepts. From there full ordination (Pali: \"upasampada\") may take place. Bhikkhus are subject to a much longer set of rules known as the Pātimokkha (Theravada) or Prātimokṣa (Mahayana and Vajrayana).\n\nIn the Mahayana monasticism is part of the system of \"vows of individual liberation\". These vows are taken by monks and nuns from the ordinary sangha, in order to develop personal ethical discipline. In Mahayana and Vajrayana, the term \"sangha\" is, in principle, often understood to refer particularly to the \"aryasangha\" (), the \"community of the noble ones who have reached the first bhūmi\". These, however, need not be monks and nuns.\n\nThe vows of individual liberation are taken in four steps. A lay person may take the five upāsaka and upāsikā vows ( \"approaching virtue\"). The next step is to enter the pabbajja or monastic way of life (Skt: \"pravrajyā\", ), which includes wearing monk's or nun's robes. After that, one can become a samanera or samaneri \"novice\" (Skt. \"śrāmaṇera\", \"śrāmaṇeri\", ). The last and final step is to take all the vows of a bhikkhu or bhukkhuni \"fully ordained monastic\" (Sanskrit: \"bhikṣu, bhikṣuṇī\", ).\n\nMonastics take their vows for life but can renounce them and return to non-monastic life and even take the vows again later. A person can take them up to three times or seven times in one life, depending on the particular practices of each school of discipline; after that, the sangha should not accept them again. In this way, Buddhism keeps the vows \"clean\". It is possible to keep them or to leave this lifestyle, but it is considered extremely negative to break these vows.\n\nIn Tibet, the upāsaka, pravrajyā and bhikṣu ordinations are usually taken at ages six, fourteen and twenty-one or older, respectively.\n\nThe special dress of ordained people, referred to in English as robes, comes from the idea of wearing a simple durable form of protection for the body from weather and climate. In each tradition there is uniformity in the colour and style of dress. Colour is often chosen due to the wider availability of certain pigments in a given geographical region. In Tibet and the Himalayan regions (Kashmir, Nepal and Bhutan) red is the preferred pigment used in the dying of robes. In Burma, reddish brown; In India, Sri Lanka and South-East Asia various shades of yellow, ochre and orange prevail. In China, Korea, Japan and Vietnam grey or black is common. Monks often make their own robes from cloth that is donated to them.\n\nThe robes of Tibetan novices and monks differ in various aspects, especially in the application of \"holes\" in the dress of monks. Some monks tear their robes into pieces and then mend these pieces together again. Upāsakas cannot wear the \"chö-göö\", a yellow tissue worn during teachings by both novices and full monks.\n\nIn observance of the Kathina Puja, a special Kathina robe is made in 24 hours from donations by lay supporters of a temple. The robe is donated to the temple or monastery, and the resident monks then select from their own number a single monk to receive this special robe.\n\nIn Mahayana traditions, a Bhikṣu may take additional vows not related to ordination, including the Bodhisattva vows, samaya vows, and others, which are also open to laypersons in most instances.\n\nSaichō petitioned for a Mahayana ordination platform to be built in Japan. Permission was granted seven days after his death. and the platform was completed in 827 by his disciple, Gishin.\n\nSaichō believed the 250 precepts were for the Śrāvakayāna and that ordination should use the Mahayana precepts of the \"Brahmajala Sutra\". He stipulated that monastics remain on Mount Hiei for twelve years of isolated training and follow the major themes of the 250 precepts: celibacy, non-harming, no intoxicants, vegetarian eating and reducing labor for gain. After twelve years, monastics would then use the Vinaya precepts as a provisional, or supplemental, guideline to conduct themselves by when serving in non-monastic communities. Tendai monastics followed this practice.\n\nDuring Japan's Meiji Restoration during the 1870s, the government abolished celibacy and vegetarianism for Buddhist monastics in an effort to secularise them and promote the newly created State Shinto. Japanese Buddhists won the right to proselytize inside cities, ending a five-hundred year ban on clergy members entering cities.\n\nCurrently, priests (lay religious leaders) in Japan choose to observe vows as appropriate to their family situation. Celibacy and other forms of abstaining are generally \"at will\" for varying periods of time.\n\nAfter the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910, when Japan annexed Korea, Korean Buddhism underwent many changes. Jōdo Shinshū and Nichiren schools began sending missionaries to Korea under Japanese rule, and new sects formed there such as Won Buddhism. The Temple Ordinance of 1911 () changed the traditional system whereby temples were run as a collective enterprise by the Sangha, replacing this system with Japanese-style management practices in which temple abbots appointed by the Governor-General of Korea were given private ownership of temple property and given the rights of inheritance to such property. More importantly, monks from pro-Japanese factions began to adopt Japanese practices, by marrying and having children.\n\nIn Korea, the practice of celibacy varies. The two sects of Korean Seon divided in 1970 over this issue; the Jogye Order is fully celibate while the Taego Order has both celibate monastics and non-celibate Japanese-style priests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17012735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17012735", "title": "Boys' choir", "text": "Boys' choir\n\nA boys' choir is a choir primarily made up of choirboys who have yet to begin puberty or are in the early to middle stages of puberty and so retain their more highly pitched childhood voice type. Members of a boys' choir are technically known as \"trebles\" and often termed boy sopranos,\" although occasionally some boys sing in the alto range. Some boys' choirs of churches or cathedrals are further supported by older male voices singing tenor and bass; these singers are sometimes former choirboys.\n\nBoys' choirs, as a Western World cultural tradition, developed in the Middle Ages. Boys were then responsible for contributing a treble sound to church music, since women were typically barred from the performance of sacred music in a public (gender mixed) context. Some of the oldest existing boys' choirs—such as the Vienna Boys' Choir—trace their roots back to this time.\n\nIn 1498, more than half a millennium ago, Emperor Maximilian I moved his court and his court musicians from Innsbruck to Vienna. He gave specific instructions that there were to be six boys among his musicians. For want of a foundation charter, historians have settled on 1498 as the official foundation date of the Vienna Hofmusikkapelle and—in consequence—the Vienna Boys' Choir. Until 1918, the choir sang exclusively for the court, at mass, at private concerts and functions and on state occasions.\nToday, church traditions with strong roots in the Middle Ages (in particular, Anglican, Catholic, Orthodox and Lutheran churches) continue to host many boys' choirs. The Anglican church is particularly well known for its contributions to choral works and arrangements for boys' voices. However, the general inclusion of female voices in church music since the mid-1800s has significantly reduced the importance of boys' choirs as church institutions. Many present boys' choirs were either founded or reconstituted during the first half of the 20th century as independent concert choirs. In 1917 an article in \"The Musical Quarterly\" identified - and criticized - a trend toward the foundation of many boys' choirs in the USA, which the author derided as the \"boy choir fad.\"\nVarious factors contributed to a subsequent decline of boys' choirs. A general societal tendency away from choral singing was certainly a contributing factor. More specifically, gender exclucivism has led to certain reservations about \"males only\" choirs — as have instances of sexual misconduct in some choirs and choir schools. Moreover, since the age of onset of puberty has sunk, boys' choirs can no longer expect to retain a majority of their singers through the age of 16 or 17—as was the case when Bach wrote complex cantatas for the male treble. Boys' voices now break, on average, by the age of 13.5, leading to higher choir turnover rates and limiting the complexity of a choir's musical repertoire. This (early) loss of the singer's treble voice has proven frustrating for successful boy singers and contributes to negative perceptions of the boys' choir experience, for example as popularized by the 1960s Disney film \"Almost Angels\".\n\nBoys' choirs offer boys and their families with an active point of entrance into music and vocal training. They can also help to foster discipline, high standards and cultural awareness, as well as providing strong peer groups oriented around children who identify themselves with a choir's cultural and ethical values. A greater awareness of the value of gender-specific youth work may also support the positive contributions of boys choirs.\n\nMany choirs also provide choir alumni with extensive opportunities - often coupled with continued vocal coaching - to support their vocal transition to altos, tenors and basses and to stimulate their continued artistic development.\n\n"}
{"id": "3250179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3250179", "title": "Buddhism in Bhutan", "text": "Buddhism in Bhutan\n\nBuddhism is the most widely practiced religion in Bhutan. Vajrayana Buddhism is the state religion of Bhutan, and Buddhists comprise two-thirds to three-quarters and Hinduism one-quarter of its population. Although the Buddhism practiced in Bhutan originated in Tibetan Buddhism, it differs significantly in its rituals, liturgy, and monastic organization. The state religion has long been supported financially by the government through annual subsidies to Buddhist monastery, shrines, monks, and nuns. In the modern era, support of the state religion during the reign of Jigme Dorji Wangchuck includes the manufacture of 10,000 gilded bronze images of the Buddha, publication of elegant calligraphied editions of the 108-volume Kangyur (Collection of the Words of the Buddha) and the 225-volume Tengyur (Collection of Commentaries), and the construction of numerous \"chorten\" (stupas) throughout the country. Guaranteed representation in the National Assembly and the Royal Advisory Council, Buddhists constitute the majority of society and are assured an influential voice in public policy.\n\nIn 1989 some 1,000 monks (\"lam\", or \"gelong\", novices) belonged to the Central Monastic Body in Thimphu and Punakha, and some 4,000 monks belonged to district monastic bodies. The hierarchy is headed by the Je Khenpo, who was assisted by five \"lopons\" or masters, each in charge of religious tradition, liturgy, lexicography, or logic and university. The \"lonpon\", one of whom, the Dorji Lonpon, normally succeeded the current Je Khenpo, had under them religious administrators and junior monastic officials in charge of art, music, and other areas. Gelugpa monks were celibate, but Nyingmapas consist of not only monks but also householders, allowing them to marry, raise families, and work in secular occupations while performing liturgical functions in temples and homes. In all, there were some 12,000 monks in Bhutan in the late 1980s. There were also active congregations of nuns, but no figures were readily available. The majority of Bhutan's Buddhists are adherents of the Drukpa subsect of the Kargyupa (literally, oral transmission) school, one of the four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nSince July 2002, Menjong Chöthün Tshogpa, currently a nationwide non-profit organization in Bhutan, has been formed by Truku Jigme Chödrag Rinpoche 70th Kyabje Dorjechang, known as the Supreme Dharma King or His Holiness of Bhutan, mainly to preserve the indigenous Buddha's Teachings as their age-old culture and tradition. Subsequently Trizin Tsering Rimpoche was enthroned as the chairman by Truku Jigme Chödrag Rinpoche since June 2003.\n\nLater in 2004, Trizin Tsering Rimpoche founded the Buddha Dordenma Image Foundation, under the patronage of Truku Jigme Chödrag Rinpoche, with an aim to fulfill a former prophecy in a terma of Guru Padmasambhava to bestow blessings on world peace and glorious happiness through the currently running Buddha Dordenma Project.\n\nPrior to 1907, the highest Buddhist leader in Bhutan was the Zhabdrung, a tulku who is seen as the reincarnation of Bhutan's founder. His formal activity to benefit all sentient beings is destined to occur in seven lives, each with his own prophecy.\n\nMonasteries and convents are common in Bhutan. Both monks and nuns keep their heads shaved and wear distinguishing maroon robes. Their days are spent in study and meditation but also in the performance of rituals honoring various bodhisattvas, praying for the dead, and seeking the intercession of bodhisattvas on behalf of the ill. Some of their prayers involved chants and singing accompanied by conch shell trumpets, trumpets made from human thighbones, metal horns up to three meters long, large standing drums and cymbals, hand bells, temple bells, gongs, and wooden sticks. Such monastic music and singing, not normally heard by the general public, has been reported to have \"great virility\" and to be more melodious than its Tibetan monotone counterparts. Common people do practice the religion in their own ways: day to day works, in their speech, in their thought and visiting the holy place and persons on holy dates (holy dates are the 8, 10, 15, 25, 28 and 30th day in a month in Bhutanese calendar).\n\nTo bring Buddhism to the people, numerous symbols and structures are employed. Religious monuments, prayer walls, prayer flags, and sacred mantras carved in stone hillsides are prevalent. Among the religious monuments are chorten, the Bhutanese version of the Indian stupa. They range from simple rectangular \"house\" chorten to complex edifices with ornate steps, doors, domes, and spires. Some are decorated with the Buddha's eyes that see in all directions simultaneously. These earth, brick, or stone structures commemorate deceased kings, Buddhist saints, venerable monks, and other notables, and sometimes they serve as reliquaries. Prayer walls are made of laid or piled stone and inscribed with Tantric prayers. Prayers printed with woodblocks on cloth are made into tall, narrow, colorful prayer flags, which are then mounted on long poles and placed both at holy sites and at dangerous locations to ward off demons and to benefit the spirits of the dead. To help propagate the faith, itinerant monks travel from village to village carrying portable shrines with many small doors, which open to reveal statues and images of the Buddha, bodhisattavas, and notable lamas.\n\nBefore the introduction of Buddhism, Bön religion was prevalent in Bhutan. Imported from Tibet and India, perhaps in the eighth century, Bön doctrine became so strongly reinvigorated by Buddhism that by the eleventh and twelfth century it reasserted itself as an independent school apart from Buddhism. Bön continues to be practiced in modern Bhutan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7471", "title": "Catherine of Siena", "text": "Catherine of Siena\n\nSaint Catherine of Siena (25 March 1347 – 29 April 1380), was a tertiary of the Dominican Order and a Scholastic philosopher and theologian who had a great influence on the Catholic Church. She is declared a saint and a doctor of the Church.\n\nBorn in Siena, she grew up there and wanted very soon to devote herself to God, against the will of her parents. She joined the Sisters of the Penance of St. Dominic and made her vows. She made herself known very quickly by being marked by mystical phenomena such as stigmata and mystical marriage.\n\nShe accompanied the chaplain of the Dominicans to the pope in Avignon, as ambassador of Florence, then at war against the pope. Her influence with Pope Gregory XI played a role in his decision to leave Avignon for Rome. She was then sent by him to negotiate peace with Florence. After Gregory XI's death and peace concluded, she returned to Siena. She dictated to secretaries her set of spiritual treatises \"The Dialogue of Divine Providence\".\n\nThe Great Schism of the West led Catherine of Siena to go to Rome with the pope. She sent numerous letters to princes and cardinals to promote obedience to Pope Urban VI and defend what she calls the \"vessel of the Church.\" She died on 29 April 1380, exhausted by her penances. Urban VI celebrated her funeral and burial in the Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome.\n\nThe devotion around Catherine of Siena developed rapidly after her death. She was canonized in 1461, declared patron saint of Rome in 1866, and of Italy in 1939. First woman declared \"doctor of the Church\" on 4 October 1970 by Pope Paul VI with Teresa of Ávila, she was proclaimed patron saint of Europe in 1999 by Pope John Paul II. She is also the patron saint of journalists, media, and all communication professions, because of her epistolary work for the papacy.\n\nCatherine of Siena is one of the outstanding figures of medieval Catholicism, by the strong influence she has had in the history of the papacy. She is behind the return of the Pope from Avignon to Rome, and then carried out many missions entrusted by the pope, something quite rare for a simple nun in the Middle Ages.\n\nHer writings—and especially \"The Dialogue\", her major work which includes a set of treatises she would have dictated during ecstasies—mark theological thought. She is one of the most influential writers in Catholicism, to the point that she is one of only four women to be declared a doctor of the Church. This recognition by the Church consecrates the importance of her writings.\n\nSince 18 June 1939, Catherine of Siena has been one of the two patron saints of Italy, together with Francis of Assisi. On 4 October 1970, she was proclaimed a Doctor of the Church by Pope Paul VI, and on 1 October 1999, Pope John Paul II named her as one of the six patron saints of Europe, together with Benedict of Nursia, Saints Cyril and Methodius, Bridget of Sweden and Edith Stein.\n\nCaterina di Giacomo di Benincasa was born on 25 March 1347 in Black Death-ravaged Siena, Italy, to Lapa Piagenti, the daughter of a local poet, and Giacomo di Benincasa, a cloth dyer who ran his enterprise with the help of his sons. The house where Catherine grew up is still in existence. Lapa was about forty years old when she gave premature birth to twin daughters Catherine and Giovanna. She had already borne 22 children, but half of them had died. Giovanna was handed over to a wet-nurse and died soon after. Catherine was nursed by her mother and developed into a healthy child. She was two years old when Lapa had her 25th child, another daughter named Giovanna. As a child Catherine was so merry that the family gave her the pet name of \"Euphrosyne\", which is Greek for \"joy\" and the name of an early Christian saint.\n\nCatherine is said by her confessor and biographer Raymond of Capua O.P.'s \"Life\" to have had her first vision of Christ when she was five or six years old: She and a brother were on the way home from visiting a married sister when she is said to have experienced a vision of Christ seated in glory with the Apostles Peter, Paul, and John. Raymond continues that at age seven, Catherine vowed to give her whole life to God.\n\nWhen Catherine was sixteen, her older sister Bonaventura died in childbirth; already anguished by this, Catherine soon learned that her parents wanted her to marry Bonaventura's widower. She was absolutely opposed and started a strict fast. She had learned this from Bonaventura, whose husband had been far from considerate but his wife had changed his attitude by refusing to eat until he showed better manners. Besides fasting, Catherine further disappointed her mother by cutting off her long hair as a protest against being overly encouraged to improve her appearance to attract a husband.\nCatherine would later advise Raymond of Capua to do during times of trouble what she did now as a teenager: \"Build a cell inside your mind, from which you can never flee.\" In this inner cell she made her father into a representation of Christ, her mother into the Blessed Virgin Mary, and her brothers into the apostles. Serving them humbly became an opportunity for spiritual growth. Catherine resisted the accepted course of marriage and motherhood on the one hand, or a nun's veil on the other. She chose to live an active and prayerful life outside a convent's walls following the model of the Dominicans. Eventually her father gave up and permitted her to live as she pleased.\n\nA vision of Saint Dominic gave strength to Catherine, but her wish to join his Order was no comfort to Lapa, who took her daughter with her to the baths in Bagno Vignoni to improve her health. Catherine fell seriously ill with a violent rash, fever and pain, which conveniently made her mother accept her wish to join the \"Mantellate\", the local association of Dominican tertiaries. Lapa went to the Sisters of the Order and persuaded them to take in her daughter. Within days, Catherine seemed entirely restored, rose from bed and donned the black and white habit of the Third Order of Saint Dominic. Catherine received the habit of a Dominican tertiary from the friars of the order after vigorous protests from the tertiaries themselves, who up to that point had been only widows. As a tertiary, she lived outside the convent, at home with her family like before. The Mantellate taught Catherine how to read, and she lived in almost total silence and solitude in the family home.\n\nHer custom of giving away clothing and food without asking anyone's permission cost her family significantly, but she requested nothing for herself. By staying in their midst, she could live out her rejection of them more strongly. She did not want their food, referring to the table laid for her in Heaven with her real family. \nAccording to Raymond of Capua, at the age of twenty-one (c. 1368), Catherine experienced what she described in her letters as a \"Mystical Marriage\" with Jesus, later a popular subject in art as the \"Mystic marriage of Saint Catherine\". Caroline Walker Bynum explains one surprising and controversial aspect of this marriage that occurs both in artistic representations of the event and in some early accounts of her life: \"Underlining the extent to which the marriage was a fusion with Christ's physicality [...] Catherine received, not the ring of gold and jewels that her biographer reports in his bowdlerized version, but the ring of Christ's foreskin.\" Catherine herself mentions the foreskin-as-wedding ring motif in one of her letters (#221), equating the wedding ring of a virgin with a foreskin; she typically claimed that her own wedding ring to Christ was simply invisible. Raymond of Capua also records that she was told by Christ to leave her withdrawn life and enter the public life of the world. Catherine rejoined her family and began helping the ill and the poor, where she took care of them in hospitals or homes. Her early pious activities in Siena attracted a group of followers, women and men, who gathered around her.\n\nAs social and political tensions mounted in Siena, Catherine found herself drawn to intervene in wider politics. She made her first journey to Florence in 1374, probably to be interviewed by the Dominican authorities at the General Chapter held in Florence in May 1374, though this is controverted (if she was interviewed, then the absence of later evidence suggests she was deemed sufficiently orthodox). It seems that at this time she acquired Raymond of Capua as her confessor and spiritual director.\n\nAfter this visit, she began travelling with her followers throughout northern and central Italy advocating reform of the clergy and advising people that repentance and renewal could be done through \"the total love for God.\" In Pisa, in 1375, she used what influence she had to sway that city and Lucca away from alliance with the anti-papal league whose force was gaining momentum and strength. She also lent her enthusiasm towards promoting the launch of a new crusade. It was in Pisa in 1375 that, according to Raymond of Capua's biography, she received the stigmata (visible, at Catherine's request, only to herself).\n\nPhysical travel was not the only way in which Catherine made her views known. From 1375 onwards, she began dictating letters to scribes. These letters were intended to reach men and women of her circle, increasingly widening her audience to include figures in authority as she begged for peace between the republics and principalities of Italy and for the return of the Papacy from Avignon to Rome. She carried on a long correspondence with Pope Gregory XI, asking him to reform the clergy and the administration of the Papal States.\n\nTowards the end of 1375, she returned to Siena, to assist a young political prisoner, Niccolò di Tuldo, at his execution. In June 1376 Catherine went to Avignon as ambassador of the Republic of Florence to make peace with the Papal States (on 31 March 1376 Gregory XI had placed Florence under interdict). She was unsuccessful and was disowned by the Florentine leaders, who sent ambassadors to negotiate on their own terms as soon as Catherine's work had paved the way for them. Catherine sent an appropriately scorching letter back to Florence in response. While in Avignon, Catherine also tried to convince Pope Gregory XI, the last Avignon Pope, to return to Rome. Gregory did indeed return his administration to Rome in January 1377; to what extent this was due to Catherine's influence is a topic of much modern debate.\n\nCatherine returned to Siena and spent the early months of 1377 founding a women's monastery of strict observance outside the city in the old fortress of Belcaro. She spent the rest of 1377 at Rocca d'Orcia, about twenty miles from Siena, on a local mission of peace-making and preaching. During this period, in autumn 1377, she had the experience which led to the writing of her \"Dialogue\" and learned to write, although she still seems to have chiefly relied upon her secretaries for her correspondence.\n\nLate in 1377 or early in 1378 Catherine again travelled to Florence, at the order of Gregory XI, to seek peace between Florence and Rome. Following Gregory's death in March 1378 riots, the revolts of the Ciompi, broke out in Florence on 18 June, and in the ensuing violence she was nearly assassinated. Eventually, in July 1378, peace was agreed between Florence and Rome; Catherine returned quietly to Florence.\n\nIn late November 1378, with the outbreak of the Western Schism, the new Pope, Urban VI, summoned her to Rome. She stayed at Pope Urban VI's court and tried to convince nobles and cardinals of his legitimacy, both meeting with individuals at court and writing letters to persuade others.\n\nFor many years she had accustomed herself to a rigorous abstinence. She received the Holy Eucharist almost daily. This extreme fasting appeared unhealthy in the eyes of the clergy and her own sisterhood. Her confessor, Blessed Raymond, ordered her to eat properly. But Catherine claimed that she was unable to, describing her inability to eat as an \"infermità\" (illness). From the beginning of 1380, Catherine could neither eat nor swallow water. On February 26 she lost the use of her legs.\n\nCatherine died in Rome, on 29 April 1380, at the age of thirty-three, having eight days earlier suffered a massive stroke which paralyzed her from the waist down. Her last words were, \"Father, into Your Hands I commend my soul and my spirit.\"\n\nThere is some internal evidence of Catherine's personality, teaching and work in her nearly four hundred letters, her \"Dialogue\", and her prayers.\n\nMuch detail about her life has also, however, been drawn from the various sources written shortly after her death in order to promote her cult and canonisation. Though much of this material is heavily hagiographic, it has been an important source for historians seeking to reconstruct Catherine's life. Various sources are particularly important, especially the works of Raymond of Capua, who was Catherine's spiritual director and close friend from 1374 until her death, and himself became Master General of the Order in 1380. Raymond began writing what is known as the \"Legenda Major\", his \"Life\" of Catherine, in 1384, and completed it in 1395.\n\nAnother important work written after Catherine's death was \"Libellus de Supplemento\" (\"Little Supplement Book\"), written between 1412 and 1418 by Tommaso d'Antonio Nacci da Siena (commonly called Thomas of Siena, or Tommaso Caffarini): the work is an expansion of Raymond's \"Legenda Major\" making heavy use of the notes of Catherine's first confessor, Tommaso della Fonte (notes that do not survive anywhere else). Caffarini later published a more compact account of Catherine's life, entitled the \"Legenda Minor\".\n\nFrom 1411 onwards, Caffarini also co-ordinated the compiling of the \"Processus\" of Venice, the set of documents submitted as part of the process of canonisation of Catherine, which provides testimony from nearly all of Catherine's disciples. There is also an anonymous piece entitled \"Miracoli della Beata Caterina\" (\"Miracle of Blessed Catherine\"), written by an anonymous Florentine. A few other relevant pieces survive.\n\nThree genres of work by Catherine survive:\n\nCatherine's theology can be described as mystical, and was employed towards practical ends for her own spiritual life or those of others. She used the language of medieval scholastic philosophy to elaborate her experiential mysticism. Interested mainly with achieving an incorporeal union with God, Catherine practiced extreme fasting and asceticism, eventually to the extent of living solely off the Eucharist every day. For Catherine, this practice was the means to fully realize her love of Christ in her mystical experience, with a large proportion of her ecstatic visions relating to the consumption or rejection of food during her life. She viewed Christ as a \"bridge\" between the soul and God and transmitted that idea, along with her other teachings, in her book The Dialogue. The Dialogue is highly systematic and explanatory in its presentation of her mystical ideas; however, these ideas themselves are not so much based in reason or logic as they are based in her ecstatic mystical experience.\n\nShe was buried in the (Roman) cemetery of Santa Maria sopra Minerva which lies near the Pantheon. After miracles were reported to take place at her grave, Raymond moved her inside the Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva, where she lies to this day.\n\nHer head however, was parted from her body and inserted in a gilt bust of bronze. This bust was later taken to Siena, and carried through that city in a procession to the Dominican church. Behind the bust walked Lapa, Catherine's mother, who lived until she was 89 years old. By then she had seen the end of the wealth and the happiness of her family, and followed most of her children and several of her grandchildren to the grave. She helped Raymond of Capua write his biography of her daughter, and said, \"I think God has laid my soul athwart in my body, so that it can't get out.\" The incorrupt head and thumb were entombed in the Basilica of San Domenico at Siena, where they remain.\n\nPope Pius II, himself from Siena, canonized Catherine on 29 June 1461.\n\nOn 4 October 1970, Pope Paul VI named Catherine a Doctor of the Church; this title was almost simultaneously given to Saint Teresa of Ávila (27 September 1970), making them the first women to receive this honour.\n\nInitially however, her feast day was not included in the General Roman Calendar. When it was added in 1597, it was put on the day of her death, April 29; however, because this conflicted with the feast of Saint Peter of Verona which also fell on the 29th of April, Catherine's feast day was moved in 1628 to the new date of April 30. In the 1969 revision of the calendar, it was decided to leave the celebration of the feast of St Peter of Verona to local calendars, because he was not as well known worldwide, and Catherine's feast was restored to April 29.\n\nIn his decree of 13 April 1866, Pope Pius IX declared Catherine of Siena to be a co-patroness of Rome. On 18 June 1939 Pope Pius XII named her a joint patron saint of Italy along with Saint Francis of Assisi.\n\nOn 1 October 1999, Pope John Paul II made her one of Europe's patron saints, along with Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross and Saint Bridget of Sweden. She is also the patroness of the historically Catholic American woman's fraternity, Theta Phi Alpha.\n\nThe people of Siena wished to have Catherine's body. A story is told of a miracle whereby they were partially successful: knowing that they could not smuggle her whole body out of Rome, they decided to take only her head which they placed in a bag. When stopped by the Roman guards, they prayed to Catherine to help them, confident that she would rather have her body (or at least part thereof) in Siena. When they opened the bag to show the guards, it appeared no longer to hold her head but to be full of rose petals. Once back at Siena, as they reopened the bag her head was visible once more. Due to this story, Catherine is often seen holding a lily.\n\nCatherine ranks high among the mystics and spiritual writers of the Church. She remains a greatly respected figure for her spiritual writings, and political boldness to \"speak truth to power\"—it being exceptional for a woman, in her time period, to have had such influence in politics and on world history.\n\nThe main churches in honor of Catherine of Siena are:\n\n\n\nEnglish translations of The \"Dialogue\" include:\n\nThe Letters are translated into English as:\n\nThe Prayers are translated into English as:\n\nRaymond of Capua's \"Life\" was translated into English in 1493 and 1609, and in Modern English is translated as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52281794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52281794", "title": "Central Spiritual Board of Buddhists of the USSR", "text": "Central Spiritual Board of Buddhists of the USSR\n\nThe Central Spiritual Board of Buddhists of the USSR (TsDUB) was the authorized organization for Buddhists in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe organization was founded at a congress of Buddhist believers on May 21–23, 1946 in Ulan-Ude, Buryat-Mongol ASSR. There \"Law of Spiritual Administration of Buddhists and a Regulation for Buddhist Clergy of the USSR\", making it imperative for Buddhists to honor the workers fatherland and put its interests on par with their faith.\n\nThe Chairman of the new organization was given the title Bandido Khambo Lama, and the headquarters was at a new temple located near Ulan-Ude, Khambin sume, now known as Ivolginsky datsan. Soon a second temple was built, the Agin datsan in Chita. A permanent office was established in Moscow, which mainly dealt with external relations.\n\nA congress of clergy and laity met quadrennially to elect members of the Board.\n\nTsDUB joined the International Brotherhood of Buddhists in 1956 and the Asian Buddhist Conference for Peace in 1969. The latter was an organization of Buddhists from Soviet dominated countries.\n\nChairmen of this group held the title Bandido Khambo-Lama. This post was held by the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47269229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47269229", "title": "Chinese Manichaeism", "text": "Chinese Manichaeism\n\nChinese Manichaeism is the form of Manichaeism (摩尼教 \"Móníjiào\" or 明教 \"Míngjiào\", \"bright religion\") transmitted and practiced in China. \n\nChinese Manichaeism identifies as a teaching with the purpose of awakening (佛 \"fú\"), and it is a monotheism worshipping the universal God (\"Shangdi\", \"Míngzūn\" 明尊 \"Radiant Lord\" or \"Zhēnshén\" 真神 \"True God\"). Creation is the Living Spirit (淨活風 \"Jìnghuófēng\") of God, of whom there have been many manifestations in human form, including Mani (摩尼 \"Móní\").\n\nManichaeism was introduced into China in the Tang dynasty, through Central Asian communities. It never rose to prominence, and was officially banned and persecuted through the suppression of non-Chinese religions started by the Emperor Wuzong of Tang.\n\nSince its introduction, Manichaeism was deeply sinicised in its style, adapting to the Chinese cultural context. After the Tang, Manichaeism survived among the population and had a profound influence on the tradition of the Chinese folk religious sects integrating with the Maitreyan beliefs such as the White Lotus Sect.\n\nIn modern China, Manichaean groups are still active in southern provinces, especially in Quanzhou and around the Cao'an, the only Manichaean temple that has survived until today. There is a Chinese Manichaean Council with representatives in Tibet and Beijing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15954442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15954442", "title": "Christianity in Georgia (country)", "text": "Christianity in Georgia (country)\n\nToday 84% of the population in Georgia practices Orthodox Christianity, primarily the Georgian Orthodox Church. Of these, around 2% follow the Russian Orthodox Church, around 5.9% (almost all of whom are ethnic Armenians) follow the Armenian Apostolic Church and 0.8% are Catholics and are mainly found in the south of Georgia but with a small number in its capital, Tbilisi.\n\nA Pew Center study about religion and education around the world in 2016, found that between the various Christian communities, Georgia ranks as the third highest nation in terms of Christians who obtain a university degree in institutions of higher education (57%).\n\nAccording to Orthodox tradition, Christianity was first preached in Georgia by the Apostles Simon and Andrew in the 1st century. It became the state religion of Kartli (Iberia) in 319. The conversion of Kartli to Christianity is credited to a Greek lady called St. Nino of Cappadocia. The Georgian Orthodox Church, originally part of the Church of Antioch, gained its autocephaly and developed its doctrinal specificity progressively between the 5th and 10th centuries. The Bible was also translated into Georgian in the 5th century, as the Georgian alphabet was developed for that purpose. As was true elsewhere, the Christian church in Georgia was crucial to the development of a written language, and most of the earliest written works were religious texts. The Georgians' new faith, which replaced pagan beliefs and Zoroastrianism, was to place them permanently on the front line of conflict between the Islamic and Christian worlds. Georgians remained mostly Christian despite repeated invasions by Muslim powers, and long episodes of foreign domination. After Georgia was annexed by the Russian Empire, the Russian Orthodox Church took over the Georgian church in 1811.\n\nThe Georgian church regained its autocephaly only when Russian rule ended in 1917. The Soviet regime that ruled Georgia from 1921 did not consider revitalization of the Georgian church an important goal, however. Soviet rule brought severe purges of the Georgian church hierarchy and frequent repression of Orthodox worship. As elsewhere in the Soviet Union, many churches were destroyed or converted into secular buildings. This history of repression encouraged the incorporation of religious identity into the strong nationalist movement and the quest of Georgians for religious expression outside the official, government-controlled church. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, opposition leaders, especially Zviad Gamsakhurdia, criticized corruption in the church hierarchy. After Ilia II became the patriarch (catholicos) of the Georgian Orthodox Church in the late 1970s, Georgian Orthodoxy experienced a revival. In 1988 Moscow permitted the patriarch to begin consecrating and reopening closed churches, and a large-scale restoration process began. The Georgian Orthodox Church has regained much power and full independence from the state since the restoration of Georgia's independence in 1991.\n\nThe Georgian Orthodox Church (full title Georgian Apostolic Autocephalous Orthodox Church, or in the Georgian language, საქართველოს სამოციქულო მართლმადიდებელი ავტოკეფალური ეკლესია \"Sakartvelos Samocikulo Martlmadidebeli Avt'ok'epaluri Ek'lesia\") is one of the world's most ancient Christian Churches, and tradition traces its origins to the mission of Apostle Andrew in the 1st century. It is an autocephalous (self-headed) part of the Eastern Orthodox Church. Georgian Orthodoxy has been a state religion in parts of Georgia since the 4th century, and is the majority religion in that country.\n\nThe Constitution of Georgia recognizes the special role of the Georgian Orthodox Church in the country's history but also stipulates the independence of the church from the state. The relations between the State and the Church are regulated by the Constitutional Agreement of 2002.\n\nAdherents of Oriental Orthodox Christianity in Georgia are mainly ethnic Armenians. Communities of Armenian Apostolic Church in Georgia are under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin, and its eparchy (diocese), centered in the Saint George's Church, Tbilisi. The head of the \"Armenian Apostolic Diocese\" in Georgia is bishop Vazgen Mirzakhanyan.\n\nThe Georgian Catholic Church (or Catholic Church in Georgia) has always, since the East-West Schism, been composed mainly of Latin Rite Catholics. Since the 18th century, there has also been a significant number of Armenian Rite Catholics. Georgian Byzantine-Rite Catholics have always been few, and do not constitute an autonomous (\"sui iuris\") Church, since canon 27 of the \"Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches\" defines these Churches as under a hierarchy of their own and recognized as autonomous by the supreme authority of the Church.\n\nA small number, estimated at 500 worldwide, of Byzantine or \"Greek\" Rite Georgian Catholics do exist. However, \"no organized Georgian Greek Catholic Church ever existed\", though, outside of Georgia, \"a small Georgian Byzantine Catholic parish has long existed in Istanbul. Currently it is without a priest. Twin male and female religious orders 'of the Immaculate Conception' were founded there in 1861, but have since died out.\" This was never established as a recognized particular Church of any level (exarchate, ordinariate etc.), within the communion of Catholic Churches, and accordingly has never appeared in the list of Eastern Catholic Churches published in the Annuario Pontificio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42073949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42073949", "title": "Church of Wells", "text": "Church of Wells\n\nThe Church of Wells (formerly the Church of Arlington, or You Must Be Born Again (YMBBA) Ministries) is an American religious group considered by some to be a cult located in Wells, Texas (United States). The group is led by Sean Morris, Jacob Gardner, and Ryan Ringnald, former street preachers who are all in their early thirties. It has approximately two hundred members, many being young adults and children.\n\nAccording to their website, the Church of Wells promotes a revivalist approach to Christianity. They believe that most of Christian America is a \"darkened generation\" buried under a \"mountain of apostasy\". They place a high emphasis on the new birth, denying many forms of entertainment and leisure in favor of prayer (with sessions often lasting several hours a day), fasting, and deep loathing for their own sin. Only by demonstrating the correct \"fruits\" of salvation to the elders' approval can a Church of Wells member know that he has truly been saved.\n\nThey feature this verse prominently in their belief system: \"If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple\" (Luke 14:26). The group uses this verse to justify its members cutting all ties with those outside the group, leaving their homes and families behind. Members express outright rejection of everybody outside the Church of Wells, including the media, all other pastors and spiritual leaders, and their own loved ones. Testimonies of members can be viewed on the church website.\n\nIn May 2012, a member's three-day-old infant died. Instead of seeking medical attention, the Elders carried the infant's body from house to house, praying for the baby to be resurrected for more than fifteen hours before calling 911.\n\nIn July 2013, Catherine Grove, 26, disappeared from her home in Arkansas without notice, abandoning her car and belongings, only to resurface weeks later under heavy guard at the Church of Wells. She said that she is not being held against her will, and was only \"seeking the Lord\", This is consistent with the accounts of several other members who have cut off nearly all contact with their friends and family. Based on these incidents, the Church of Wells has often been called an emerging cult. On April 2, 2015 Grove left the church and returned to her family in Arkansas. However, she returned to the church only twelve days later (April 14, 2015).\n\nIn April 2014, Sean Morris and member Taylor Clifton were injured following a physical altercation during the Wells community homecoming parade. Witnesses report the two men caused a disturbance by \"preaching harshly and screaming 'You're going to hell' to children, parents and parade-goers.\" In the recorded video of the preaching of Taylor Clifton, he can be heard saying of God, \"He loves you. He cares for you.\" The injured members did not fight back, nor did they press charges.\n\nMembers of the Church of Wells contend that the information projected in the media is unsubstantiated, and rebuttals to all incidents can be viewed on the church website.\n\nOn June 28, 2015, six members of the Church of Wells interrupted a service of Lakewood Church in Houston, heckling Pastor Joel Osteen and calling him a liar. In June 2016 four of the members of the Church of Wells involved in the incident were tried and acquitted of disturbing a public meeting by a Texas jury. In March, 2016 members of the church disrupted a Baptist church service in Saranac Lake, NY.\n"}
{"id": "33659829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33659829", "title": "Damaskinos (Papandreou) of Adrianople", "text": "Damaskinos (Papandreou) of Adrianople\n\nDamaskinos Papandreou (born Vasileos Papandreou, Βασίλειος Παπανδρέου; February 23, 1936 in Thermo, Aetolia-Acarnania – November 5, 2011 in Genève) was the Greek Orthodox metropolitan bishop of Adrianople from 2003 until his death. Prior to that he was titular metropolitan of Trajanopolis from 1970, elevated to active metropolitan in 1975, and was elected as the first metropolitan of Switzerland in 1982.\n"}
{"id": "8812597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8812597", "title": "Damjing", "text": "Damjing\n\nDamjing (in modern Korean) or Donchō (in Japanese) was a Buddhist priest who was sent to ancient Japan from Goguryeo around 610. How his name was pronounced in the Goguryeo language is unknown.\n\nAlmost nothing has come down about him besides a few lines in the \"Nihon Shoki\" (720 A.D.), which is almost the only reliable source.\n\nOn the grounds that this is the first appearance about the manufacture of paper, it has been said, all in all, from the Edo period, that he brought papermaking skills to Japan first. However, there is no sufficient grounds to say so from the text; as to the watermill, it is mentioned that he probably introduced it first, while papermaking is not mentioned. If he had done so, it should have been mentioned along with the mention of the watermill. B. Jugaku, in his study \"The Japanese Paper\", making a comparative review of surviving ancient documents, concludes the text is a compliment for the Buddhist priest who was also familiar with Confucianism, what is more, never ignorant of crafts; and if properly read, it does not state that he was the first person to bring the methods for color, ink and papermaking, rather that he was quite a craftsman for producing them. Additionally, at that time, maintenance of the state apparatus, which required enormous amounts of paper such as for family registers, had been started. The facts of the time support such a reading.\n\n\"Biography of Prince Shōtoku\"(written in 917 or maybe 992) tells that Prince Shōtoku invited him to Ikaruga-no-miya Palace, and afterward kept him at Hōryū-ji. However, it is not regarded as an historical fact since the book is a grand sum of mythical biographies about him.\n\nIn Korea, in recent years, some people have claimed that the wall painting in the Kondō of Hōryū-ji was made by Damjing, but this is not based on any surviving documents. Furthermore, the original temple was burned around 670 and the current one is a reconstruction from the late 7th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95010", "title": "Erathipa", "text": "Erathipa\n\nIn Aboriginal mythology, Erathipa is a boulder that has the shape of a pregnant woman; contained within Erathipa are the souls of dead children which can inhabit the bodies of fertile young women. This was known only by the supreme ones of the ancient aborigines, also known as the Chockolia. The fertility stone has an opening on one side. \nThe tribes of central Australia have... a huge rock known as Erathipa, which has an opening in one side from which the souls of the children imprisoned in it watch for a woman to pass by so that they may be reborn in her. When women who do not want children go near the rock, they pretend to be old, and walk as if leaning on a stick, crying; \"Don't come to me, I am an old woman!\"\nThe idea implicit in all these rites, is that certain stones have the power to make sterile women fruitful, either because of the spirits of the ancestors that dwell in them, or because of their shape (the pregnant woman, \"woman stone\"), or because of their origin (\"autogenesis\").\n"}
{"id": "47008997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47008997", "title": "First Church of Cannabis", "text": "First Church of Cannabis\n\nThe First Church of Cannabis is a cannabis-based registered church in the U.S. state of Indiana founded in March 2015 by Bill Levin.\n\nThe First Church of Cannabis was founded in March 2015 by Bill Levin, who attended Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation, a Reform Judaism synagogue, as a child, and titles himself Grand Poobah of the church. He said it was a direct response to the state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA). Monthly dues are $4.20. Levin said that the church was granted IRS tax-exempt status less than 30 days after he applied.\n\nBill Levin - the self-appointed \"Grand Poobah\" or highest holy official of the church, claimed that he had the idea to found the church while watching the popular television series: \"The Flintstones\". Grand Poobah is a term derived from the name of the haughty character Pooh-Bah in \"Gilbert and Sullivan\"'s \"The Mikado\" (1885), and used recurringly in \n\"The Flintstones\" as the name of a high-ranking elected position in a secret society, the Loyal Order of Water Buffaloes.\n\nMedia interest in the church is high, with thousands of reported print articles and features on CNN and Fox News. The group planned to test RFRA on July 1, 2015, with a service in Indiana including the use of cannabis. However, legal threats from the city forced the first service to not use marijuana at all. The service went without any arrests, even with a heavy police presence, although there were protesters from a nearby Christian church. Parking was restricted, as the police argued that they were enforcing a city law on parking on a street less than 24 feet wide. Nearby residents also restricted parking on their property, although at least one person allowed parking for a small fee. The service featured a comedian, live music, and dancing. Food trucks were outside along with a merchandise table selling t-shirts and stickers.\n\nA security camera was installed outside of the church on the first day of service. City officials argued that the camera was installed to ensure public safety. Levin retorted by saying \"I find it flattering. If you think we are important enough to install a camera so you can have a guy watch us 24 hours a day, good! Good! You're spending our Hoosier tax money proper.\"\n\nThe church has a list of twelve commandments called the \"Deity Dozen\", which includes abstention from Internet trolling.\n\nThe group's meetinghouse is located at a former Christian church building on South Rural Street in Indianapolis. Services are held every Wednesday at 7.\n\nThe legal status of the Church of Cannabis' use of marijuana in a jurisdiction where it is illegal, but the Religious Freedom Restoration Act holds, has been debated by legal experts. The Supreme Court case set forth certain criteria in \"U.S. v. Meyers\" that may or may not match fourteen criteria listed by the Internal Revenue Service in granting tax-exempt status. Several days after its first service, the Church sued both the state of Indiana and the city of Indianapolis, claiming that the present marijuana laws infringed on their religious beliefs.\n\nThe Deity Dozen are a set of guidelines put forth by the Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "6896139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6896139", "title": "Franz Schmidberger", "text": "Franz Schmidberger\n\nFranz Schmidberger (born 19 October 1946 in Riedlingen, Württemberg-Hohenzollern, Germany) is a priest of the Society of St. Pius X, founded by Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre.\n\nGraduated in 1972 in the University of Munich, in the same year he entered the seminary of Écône where he was ordained priest on 8 December 1975. Later he taught in the seminary of Weissbad, the first German speaking seminary of the Society.\n\nIn 1978 he founded the seminary of Zaitzkofen in Germany, where he was appointed district superior from 1979.\n\nIn 1982 Schmidberger was appointed superior general of the society of St Pius X (quitting the post of district superior). In 1994, he was succeeded by Bishop Bernard Fellay. He subsequently served as 1st General Assistant (1994-2006), Austrian (1996-2000) and again German (2006-2013) district superior as well as regent of the Zaitzkofen seminary (2003-2005 and since 2013).\n\nWith Fellay, he is alleged to be part of a faction that favours reconciliation with Rome on the basis of the Campos precedent, a program which is reportedly opposed by the other bishops of the SSPX.\n\nIn a letter that he addressed to the Catholic bishops of Germany in October 2008, Schmidberger rejected the description that Pope John Paul II had applied to the Jews: \"our older brothers in the faith\", and declared that \"for as long as they do not distance themselves from their forefathers' guilt through the avowal of Christ's divinity and baptism, they are complicit in the deicide\".\n"}
{"id": "9197878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9197878", "title": "Huang Feihu", "text": "Huang Feihu\n\nHuang Feihu is a fictional character in the Chinese epic fantasy novel \"Fengshen Bang\". Originally known as Prince Wucheng () of the Shang Dynasty, he defects to Xiqi (西岐; the precursor to the Zhou Dynasty), a vassal state under Shang, after the tyrannical King Zhou of Shang caused the death of his wife. He brings along his two younger brothers, three sons, four close friends, and hundreds of followers loyal to him. Huang Feihu later participates in the campaign led by King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty to overthrow King Zhou of Shang. He is killed in action during a battle against the Shang general Zhang Kui (張奎).\n\nHuang Feihu is born in a family of officials who have served the Shang Dynasty for seven generations. Huang Feihu's father Huang Gun is a Shang general tasked with defending the border. Huang Feihu himself is granted the title of \"Prince Wucheng Who Guards the Kingdom\" (鎮國武成王; usually shortened to \"Prince Wucheng\"). Huang Feihu's younger sister, Consort Huang, is also a concubine of King Zhou, the last ruler of the Shang Dynasty.\n\nNear the end of the Shang Dynasty, King Zhou becomes obsessed with his concubine Daji, who is actually a vixen spirit in disguise as a woman. King Zhou is a ruthless and bloodthirsty tyrant who uses cruel means to torture and kill those who oppose him, including his own ministers who dared to speak up to him. At one point, King Zhou lusts for Huang Feihu's wife, Lady Jia, and attempts to seize her for himself. Lady Jia commits suicide to preserve her dignity. Consort Huang scolds King Zhou for his wicked ways and the king kills her by throwing her off Zhaixing Tower in anger.\nHuang Feihu is furious when he learns the truth and he defects to Xiqi (西岐; the precursor to the Zhou Dynasty), a vassal state under Shang, bringing along his family and loyal followers. Huang Feihu receives a warm welcome in Xiqi and is treated with respect. His title is changed to \"Prince Wucheng Who Founds the Kingdom\" (開國武成王).\n\nAfter the death of Ji Chang (Western Duke and lord of Xiqi), his son Ji Fa (later King Wu of Zhou) leads a campaign to overthrow King Zhou of Shang. Huang Feihu dedicates the rest of his life to assisting Ji Fa in toppling the Shang Dynasty, participating in various battles against Shang. He is eventually killed in a battle at Mianchi (澠池; present-day Mianchi County, Henan) against the Shang general Zhang Kui (張奎).\n\nDuring the investiture of the gods of Heaven at the end of the novel, Jiang Ziya grants Huang Feihu the post of \"Dongyue Taishan Tianqi Rensheng Dadi\" (東嶽泰山天齊仁聖大帝), the leader of the rulers of the Five Sacred Mountains. Huang Feihu oversees the fortunes and fates of mortals, and the Eighteen Levels of Hell.\n\nDongyue Taishan Tianqi Rensheng Dadi () roughly translates to The Equal to Heaven, Benevolent and Sacred Great Emperor of the Eastern Summit Mount Tai.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13110980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13110980", "title": "Internet church", "text": "Internet church\n\nInternet church, online church or cyberchurch refers to a wide variety of ways that a religious group is using the internet to facilitate its religious activities, particularly worship services. The Internet has become a site for religious experience which has raised questions related to theological questions around ecclesiology.\n\nIn the beginning of the internet, many ministries began posting informational and sermon-like messages to visitors. Through the years this method of teaching has evolved in the form of video, audio podcasts and blogs.\n\nMany of today's internet churches are descendants of brick-and-mortar churches, offering members an alternative to the traditional physical meetings within a church building. Some, such as the Church of Fools, offer church experiences through entirely 3D virtual reality environments. \n\nRecent statistics have shown an increasing exodus of young people from churches, especially after they leave home and live on their own. In a 2007 study, Lifeway Research determined that 70% of young Protestant adults between 18–22 stop attending church regularly.\n\nInternet churches now exist all around the world; however, they are still criticized for their lack on “human connection”.\n\nInternet church is a gathering of religious believers facilitated through the use of online video stream, audio stream and/or written messages whose primary purpose is to allow the meeting of a church body of parishioners using the internet.\n\nIt includes different aspects of Christian community online, especially by those who view this phenomenon as a subset of emerging church, the developing expressions of the faith in relation to culture change. A cyberchurch is a ministry that exists primarily as a private website, an interactive space on a public website or social networking site.\n\nAn internet church describes an institution that teaches and practices its religious beliefs entirely or primarily through online methods. Though there are hundreds of internet churches available online, the term \"internet church\" is generally reserved for churches that have a majority of its members meet, connect or congregate by way or use of the internet; where religious services are conducted through Internet technology. The internet churches differ/contrasts from the traditional church through the physical media that links pastors, teachers and believers. Many churches in the United States have their own internet church campus, and many of them have members numbering in the hundreds.\n\nMembers keep in contact with pastors and ministers and collaborate with other believers through web communication tools provided. In some cases members communicate by phone with ministers.\n\nAs Internet usage continues to thrive, Christians are using websites, blogs, social networking sites, media services, chatrooms, discussion boards, and other electronic means to provide social connection, education, and enrichment of their faith.\n\nThe word \"cyberchurch\" was used by web-developer Tim Bednar's paper \"We Know More Than Our Pastors\" which detailed the blogging movement's influence on the experience of faith. Religious pollster and author George Barna used the term in his book Revolution to describe \"the range of spiritual experiences delivered through the Internet\". Barna sees Cyberchurch as one of the future \"macro-expressions\" (large scale forms) of church in the future; one that will soon account for one-third of American spirituality, together with other \"revolutionary\" forms of church.\n\nChristians, like many Internet users, are increasingly using social networking sites like Facebook. These sites incorporate much of the technology of blogging but forge more concrete connections between users, allowing them to \"message\" each other within the system, connect officially as \"friends\", rate and rank each other, etc. These connections may or may not materialize in the real world, but many people now consider on-line relationships a significant part of their lives, increasing the potential influence of a Christian presence in these environments. Criticism of Christian use of these sites has grown, however, due to prevalence of questionable content and issues of safety. As a result, several Christian alternatives for social networking have been developed. On the other hand, some advocate a missional stance, using social networking sites and networking components of other Internet mediums like blogging, chat, and instant messaging to proselytize new converts and spread the Gospel.\n\nThere has been some speculation and experimentation with the idea of starting churches within such \"virtual environments\". LifeChurch.tv is at the forefront of developing a platform to support the Online \"Church Online\" Campus offering their platform to other churches. For instance, a quick google search will reveal their platform is being utilized at East Lake Church in Chula Vista, CA The Ridge Community Church in Milwaukee, WI and Seacoast Church in Charleston, South Carolina. True, LifeChurch does not limit themselves and has also used other platforms to plant a cyberchurch within the Facebook community using an \"Internet Campus\" technology. Likewise, churches are beginning to appear in the Second Life virtual world where people can attend as avatars and worship together. Many of these churches retain elements that can be found in traditional churchgoing, such as sermons. However, they also attempt to adapt to the unique social norms of digital media; users attending these churches are often referred to by their online usernames and there are sometimes chat sessions before, after, and even during services.\n\nPodcasting, streaming audio and video, media downloads, and self-broadcasting websites have made it possible to share the sights and sounds of belief. While religious recordings of different types have certainly existed before, it is the Internet's ability to make these files public for millions of users that has led to the growth and influence of this component of cyberchurch. Now there are millions of audio sermons, conference and seminar recordings, home videos, documentaries, faith-themed films and more accessible on the World Wide Web.\n\nTech-savvy bloggers can use multimedia to create audioblogs and videoblogs that present experiences, opinions, dialogs, stories, and teachings, creating a more live feel to the blogging experience. Many prominent thinkers, authors, and leaders have blogs that present a podcast or streaming audio of speeches, lectures, or sermons. Video sharing sites like YouTube and Google Video allow anyone with a web camera to post video alongside professional religious movie producers and make it available to millions of users. This allows believers to share ideas about faith in new and creative ways. Most of these sites allow people to embed video hosted remotely onto their blog or website, powering video-based communication across the Internet. Christian-specific sites have also recently sprung up to provide faith-based video sharing services.\n\n"}
{"id": "12219522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219522", "title": "Islamic Movement", "text": "Islamic Movement\n\nThe term Islamic Movement can refer to Islam or Islamism in general, or to any of several religious or political organizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "32551817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32551817", "title": "Koyasan Buddhist Temple", "text": "Koyasan Buddhist Temple\n\n, also known as Koyasan Buddhist Temple, is a Japanese Buddhist temple in the Little Tokyo district of Downtown Los Angeles, California, United States. Founded in 1912, it is one of the oldest existing Buddhist temples in the North American mainland region. The temple is a branch of Koyasan Shingon Buddhism and is the North America regional headquarters for the school.\n\nThe temple was founded by the Reverend Shutai Aoyama, a native of Toyama Prefecture, who was sent by the Koyasan headquarters to establish a global link in Shingon Buddhism in America. Initially facing personal hardship in establishing a temple in his inaugural arrival, he founded the temple in 1912 with the assistance of Issei and Nisei temple members, and established its first location in a storefront in 1912 near Elysian Park. In 1920, the temple was moved to a larger building on Central Avenue. A tree was planted in front of the new building by Koyasan Temple members to commemorate the move. The Aoyama Tree is a notable landmark in Little Tokyo was given historical status by the Los Angeles City Council in 2008. The Japanese American National Museum stands at Koyasan's second location.\n\nThe third and current building located on East 1st Street was built in 1940. One year after its establishment, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, sparking the United States' involvement in World War II. The new temple was closed while its members were forcibly relocated in the various internment camps. During the time period of World War II, the temple was mostly used for storage space for internees. The temple was re-opened in 1946 and the temple had to rebuild its congregational base after families and residents of Little Tokyo were scattered outside Los Angeles.\n\nOver the years, the temple began opening cultural and religious programs and classes for the local community. Prior to redevelopment in Little Tokyo, Koyasan served as the main hub of Japanese cultural events. In 1987, the temple hosted the Kechien Kanjo ritual, a service rarely conducted outside Japan. Two years later the temple was designated the keeper of the Hiroshima Peace Flame, brought over from Japan by Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley. Starting in 1999, the temple underwent a ten-year renovation of the old facilities to meet with the city building codes; the building was especially retrofitted to fit the needs for the monthly Goma fire ritual service. In November 2012, the temple celebrated its centennial anniversary, hosting a special goma fire ritual service presided over by Bishop Ekan Ikeguchi from Kagoshima.\n\nThe temple has had eight head bishops since its inception in 1912. The fourth and fifth bishop, Reverends Seytsu Takahashi and Ryosho Sogabe, pioneered the founding the temple building as it stands today; Takahashi was later appointed the Ho-in (equivalent of deputy abbot) of Kongobu-ji in Mount Koya, serving until his death in 1984. Reverend Taido Kitagawa was a co-organizer of the temple's Boy Scout Troop 379, one of the oldest Boy Scout troops in the United States. Kitagawa's son is Johnny Kitagawa, founder of Japanese production agency Johnny & Associates. Reverend Taisen Miyata, the seventh bishop and translator of Esoteric Buddhist texts, served from 1993 to 2007 and was acting bishop from 2011 to 2013.\n\n\nThe temple also hosts Boy Scout Troop 379, formed in 1931, one of the oldest troops in existence in California. Future actor and gay rights activist George Takei was one of the troop's members.\n\nOther names for the troop include AL Post 525, Koyasan, and Green Giant. The Commodore Perry Scouts were a junior marching and maneuvering corps based in Los Angeles, California. They were sponsored by the Commodore Perry American Legion Post 525 and the Koyasan Buddhist Temple.\nAssociated with the Los Angeles Boy Scout Troop 379, the Scouts boasted 164 Eagle Scouts among their ranks in 1935. Among the corps' awards were the state American Legion Championships in 1955, 1956, 1962, and 1963. The corps' colors are green, black, and white.\n\nThe troop was also featured in the 1953 movie, \"Mister Scoutmaster\", with Clifton Webb and George \"Foghorn\" Winslow. In the film he mobilized the Troop, played by members of Koyasan Troop 379, to search for Foghorn as he was missing. \n\nLater in 1971, the Drum & Bugle Corps, upon the request of the members, changed the name to Third Generation, as they were not nisei or issei generation Japanese Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79540", "title": "Liriope (nymph)", "text": "Liriope (nymph)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Liriopê (Ancient Greek: Λιριοπη) or Leiriopê (Ancient Greek: Λειριοπη) is a Boeotia naiad of Thespiae, who was probably the daughter of one of the Boeotian or Phocian river gods. Liriope was raped by the river-god Cephissus, who was himself the son of Oceanus and Tethys, and bore his son Narcissus.\n"}
{"id": "18533632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533632", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Ivory Coast", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Ivory Coast\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Côte d'Ivoire is composed of 4 ecclesiastical provinces and 11 suffragan dioceses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35079722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35079722", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Montenegro", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Montenegro\n\nThe (Roman) Catholic Church in Montenegro only comprises two Latin dioceses, one of which is an exempt archdiocese, which has no ecclesiastical province. \n\nIt has no national episcopal conference, but its episcopate partakes in the \"Balkanic International Episcopal Conference of Saints Cyril and Methodius\", jointly with fellow former-Yugoslavian Balkanic countries Kosovo, Macedonia and Serbia (not Croatia or Slovenia, which have a national conference each).\n\nThere is no Eastern Catholic or pre-diocesan jurisdiction.\n\nThere is also an Apostolic Nunciature to Montenegro as papal diplomatic representation (embassy level), which is however vested in the Apostolic Nunciature to Bosnia and Herzegovina (in its capital Sarajevo).\n\n\nAll six defunct dioceses in Montenegro have been nominally restored as Latin Titular sees :\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25087468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25087468", "title": "List of Sunni Muslim dynasties", "text": "List of Sunni Muslim dynasties\n\nThe following is a list of Sunni Muslim dynasties.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11542430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11542430", "title": "List of U.S. states by Amish population", "text": "List of U.S. states by Amish population\n\nIn 2018 there were 31 states of the United States that had a significant Amish population. Following are populations by state per the results.\n\nThe data for 1992 are from \"Amish Studies - The Young Center\".\n\nThe data for 2000 are from a book published in 2001 (Donald Kraybill, \"The Riddle of Amish Culture\").\n\nThe data for 2010 are from \"Amish Studies - The Young Center\". The 2010 census of Amish population was published in 2012, compiled by Elizabeth Cooksey, professor of sociology, and Cory Anderson, a graduate student in rural sociology, both at The Ohio State University. It was commissioned by the Association of Statisticians of American Religious Bodies for the \"2010 U.S. Religion Census\" (published in 2012).\n\nThe data for 2018 are from \"Amish Studies - The Young Center\".\n\nThe percentage of the state population is from a 2018 estimate.\n\n\nAccording to Albrecht Powell, the Pennsylvania Amish are not the largest group of U.S. Amish as is commonly thought. The Amish have settled in as many as twenty-four states and Canada, and Central America, though about 65% are located in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana. The greatest concentration of Amish is in Holmes and adjoining counties in northeast Ohio, about 78 miles south of Cleveland. Next in size is a group of Amish people in Elkhart and surrounding counties in northeastern Indiana. Then comes the Amish settlement in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. The Amish population in the U.S. numbers more than 270,000 and is growing rapidly, due to large family size (seven children on average) and a church-member retention rate of approximately 80%.\"\n\nThere was an Amish settlement in Honduras from about 1968 to 1978 but the settlement failed. In 2015 new settlements of New Order Amish were founded in Argentina and Bolivia. In Canada new settlements were founded in New Brunswick in 2015 and on Prince Edward Island in 2016.\n\n\nSource: 2017, 2018\n"}
{"id": "27401488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27401488", "title": "List of tallest Eastern Orthodox church buildings", "text": "List of tallest Eastern Orthodox church buildings\n\nThis is a list of tallest Orthodox church buildings in the world, all those higher than 70 metres.\n\nTraditionally, an Orthodox church building is crowned by one or several domes with Orthodox crosses on the top of each. The overall height of the temple is measured by the highest point of the cross above the main temple.\n\nThe number of domes is symbolical. One dome is a symbol of Christ or God, three domes are symbolic of Trinity, five domes symbolize Christ and Four Evangelists, seven domes are often used because seven is a holy number, and thirteen domes correspond to Christ and his twelve Apostles. Other numbers are also encountered.\n\nAn Orthodox church building may also have a bell tower or zvonnitsa, either a part of the main church building, or standalone structure. Typically, bell tower is higher than the main temple.\n\nThis list is divided into two sections, one listing the highest temples and the other listing the highest bell towers or zvonnitsas.\n\n"}
{"id": "50876268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50876268", "title": "Multiconfessionalism", "text": "Multiconfessionalism\n\nMulticonfessionalism is a term applied to countries which have a power sharing arrangement between people of different faiths, usually three or more significant confessional groups within the same jurisdiction. Examples of modern countries deemed multiconfessional are Lebanon and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The \"National Pact\" is a formal agreement altering the 1926 Constitution, which laid the foundation of Lebanon as a confessionalist state. Instead of the minority wielding the most power, political power became more representative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90313", "title": "Nagual", "text": "Nagual\n\nIn Mesoamerican folk religion, a nagual or nahual (both pronounced [na'wal]) is a human being who has the power to transform either spiritually or physically into an animal form: most commonly jaguar, puma and wolf, but also other animals such as donkeys, birds, dogs or coyotes.\n\nSuch a nagual is believed to use their powers for good or evil according to their personality. Specific beliefs vary, but the general concept of nagualism is pan-Mesoamerican. Nagualism is linked with pre-Columbian shamanistic practices through Preclassic Olmec depictions which are interpreted as human beings transforming themselves into animals. The system is linked with the Mesoamerican calendrical system, used for divination rituals. The birth date often determines if a person will be a nagual. Mesoamerican belief in tonalism, wherein every person has an animal counterpart to which his life force is linked, is also part of the definition of nagualism. In English the word is often translated as \"transforming witch\", but translations without the negative connotations of the word witch would be \"transforming trickster\" or \"shape shifter\".\n\nThe word \"nagual\" derives from the Nahuatl word \"nahuālli\" , an indigenous religious practitioner, identified by the Spanish as a 'magician'. The nagual is acquired along with the other characteristics of a person's birth day at birth. Each day is associated with an animal which has strong and weak aspects. A person born on \"The Dog Day\" would have both strong and weak 'Dog' aspects. In Nahuatl the word \"tonalli\" was used to refer both to a day and to the animal associated with that day. The nagual is different, where the \"tonal\" is the day spirit proper, the nagual is the spirit familiar of the day. It is probable that the tonal represents the daytime aspect and the nagual the nighttime aspect of the tonalli, 'the things of the day'. Because practitioners of powerful magic were normally born on certain days related to animals with a strong or harmful aspect they would often have specific tonals such as the jaguar or puma. In Aztec mythology the God Tezcatlipoca was the protector of nagualism, because his tonal was the jaguar and he governed the distribution of wealth.\n\nIn modern rural Mexico, \"nagual\" is sometimes synonymous with \"brujo\" (\"wizard\"): one who is able to shapeshift into an animal at night, (normally into a dog, owl, bat, a big wolf, or turkey) drink blood from human victims, steal property, cause disease, and the like.\n\nIn some indigenous communities the position of nagual is integrated into the religious hierarchy. The community knows who is a \"nagual\", tolerating, fearing and respecting them. \"nagualli\" are hired to remove curses cast by other \"nagualli\".\n\nIn other communities the accusation of nagualism may result in violent attacks by the community towards the accused.\n\nThe Western study of Nagualism was initiated by archaeologist, linguist and ethnologist Daniel Garrison Brinton who published \"Nagualism: A Study in Native-American Folklore and History\", which chronicled historical interpretations of the word and those who practiced Nagualism in Mexico in 1894. He identified various beliefs associated with nagualism in some modern Mexican communities such as the Mixe, the Nahua, the Zapotec and the Mixtec.\n\nSubsequently, many studies have described Nagualism in different Mesoamerican cultures such as the Zoques and the Jakaltek, K'iche', Q'eqchi', and Tzeltal Maya. Among the Jacaltec, naguals reinforce indigenism by punishing those who collaborate with non-indigenous 'ladinos\".\n\nIn 1955, Gustavo Correa, suggested Nagualism is not pre-Columbian, arguing that it was wholly imported from Europe, where he compared it to the medieval belief in werewolves. However, shapeshifting folklore is far from limited to Europe, nor is it limited to the Middle Ages; for example, some of earth's oldest literature, the Bronze Age Eastern Semitic Epic of Gilgamesh, and East Asia's Huli Jing (origin of this folklore is of unknown date, but eighteenth century at the latest; see main article), contain shapeshifters. The werewolf (lycanthropy) is also far from the only, or the earliest, form of folklorical therianthropy (shapeshifting from human to animal, or vice versa).\n\nA solid consensus of authors and curators today interpret pre-Columbian art as expressing a belief in therianthropic shapeshifting, often citing hallucinogenic drugs as the root of the Mesoamerican and Desert Southwest shapeshifter folktales.\n\nKaplan concludes that, in Oaxaca, the belief in naguals as evil shape shifting witches is common in both indigenous and mestizo populations. According to Kaplan, the belief in animal spirit companions is exclusively indigenous. These is certain for some groups and communities, but for others, as the Mixes, Chinantecos, Triquis or Tacuates, those who can control their nahual or alterego are also protectors of the people and the natural resources and culture of the community, and highly revered but also feared.\n\nin 1887, Sargeant Oscar Francisco Gimenez Nava was found to be one of this witches, some villagers says they saw him transfrom into a wolf they chased after him but witness say he was way too fast to overrun him and he escaped.\n\nThe term \"nagual\" was popularized in books by author Carlos Castaneda, although he had come up with a different meaning for the term, with very little relation to the Nahuatl definition.\n\n"}
{"id": "275099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275099", "title": "Oxford Movement", "text": "Oxford Movement\n\nThe Oxford Movement was a movement of High Church members of the Church of England which eventually developed into Anglo-Catholicism. The movement, whose original devotees were mostly associated with the University of Oxford, argued for the reinstatement of some older Christian traditions of faith and their inclusion into Anglican liturgy and theology. They thought of Anglicanism as one of three branches of the One, Holy, catholic, and Apostolic Church.\n\nThe movement's philosophy was known as Tractarianism after its series of publications, the \"Tracts for the Times\", published from 1833 to 1841. Tractarians were also disparagingly referred to as \"Newmanites\" (before 1845) and \"Puseyites\" (after 1845) after two prominent Tractarians, John Henry Newman and Edward Bouverie Pusey. Other well-known Tractarians included John Keble, Charles Marriott, Richard Froude, Robert Wilberforce, Isaac Williams and William Palmer.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, different groups were present in the Church of England. Many, particularly in high office, saw themselves as latitudinarian (liberal) in an attempt to broaden the Church's appeal. Conversely, many clergy in the parishes were Evangelicals, as a result of the revival led by John Wesley (who had, however, a highly sacrificial doctrine of the Holy Eucharist, which is reflected in his brother Charles' hymns, and unusual for an 18th century Anglican he took communion 90 times a year on average) and others. Alongside this, the universities became the breeding ground for a movement to restore liturgical and devotional customs which borrowed heavily from traditions before the English Reformation as well as contemporary Roman Catholic traditions.\n\nThe immediate impetus for the Tractarian movement was a perceived attack by the reforming Whig administration on the structure and revenues of the Church of Ireland (the established church in Ireland), with the Irish Church Temporalities Bill (1833). This bill not only legislated administrative changes of the hierarchy of the church (for example, with a reduction of bishoprics and archbishoprics) but also made changes to the leasing of church lands, which some (including a number of Whigs) feared would result in a secular appropriation of ecclesiastical property. John Keble criticised these proposals as \"National Apostasy\" in his Assize Sermon in Oxford in 1833. The Tractarians criticised theological liberalism. Their interest in Christian origins caused some of them to reconsider the relationship of the Church of England with the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe Tractarians postulated the Branch Theory, which states that Anglicanism along with Orthodoxy and Roman Catholicism form three \"branches\" of the historic Catholic Church. Tractarians argued for the inclusion of traditional aspects of liturgy from medieval religious practice, as they believed the church had become too \"plain\". In the final tract, \"Tract 90\", Newman argued that the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, as defined by the Council of Trent, were compatible with the Thirty-Nine Articles of the 16th-century Church of England. Newman's eventual reception into the Roman Catholic Church in 1845, followed by Henry Edward Manning in 1851, had a profound effect upon the movement.\n\nApart from the \"Tracts for the Times\", the group began a collection of translations of the Church Fathers, which they termed the \"Library of the Fathers\". The collection eventually comprised 48 volumes, the last published three years after Pusey's death. They were issued through Rivington's company with the imprint of the Holyrood Press. The main editor for many of these was Charles Marriott. A number of volumes of original Greek and Latin texts was also published. One of the main contributions that resulted from Tractarianism is the hymnbook entitled Hymns Ancient and Modern which was published in 1861.\n\nThe Oxford Movement was criticised for being a mere \"Romanising\" tendency, but it began to influence the theory and practice of Anglicanism more broadly. Paradoxically, the Oxford Movement was also criticised for being both secretive and collusive.\n\nThe Oxford Movement resulted in the establishment of Anglican religious orders, both of men and of women. It incorporated ideas and practices related to the practice of liturgy and ceremony to incorporate more powerful emotional symbolism in the church. In particular it brought the insights of the Liturgical Movement into the life of the church. Its effects were so widespread that the Eucharist gradually became more central to worship, vestments became common, and numerous Roman Catholic practices were re-introduced into worship. This led to controversies within churches that resulted in court cases, as in the dispute about ritualism.\n\nPartly because bishops refused to give livings to Tractarian priests, many of them began working in slums. From their new ministries, they developed a critique of British social policy, both local and national. One of the results was the establishment of the Christian Social Union, of which a number of bishops were members, where issues such as the just wage, the system of property renting, infant mortality and industrial conditions were debated. The more radical Catholic Crusade was a much smaller organisation than the Oxford Movement. Anglo-Catholicism – as this complex of ideas, styles and organisations became known – had a significant influence on global Anglicanism.\n\nOne of the principal writers and proponents of Tractarianism was John Henry Newman, a popular Oxford priest who, after writing his final tract, \"Tract 90\", became convinced that the Branch Theory was inadequate. Concerns that Tractarianism was a disguised Roman Catholic movement were not unfounded; Newman believed that the Roman and Anglican churches were wholly compatible. He was received into the Roman Catholic Church in 1845 and was ordained a priest of the Church the same year. He later became a cardinal (but not a bishop). Writing on the end of Tractarianism as a movement, Newman stated:I saw indeed clearly that my place in the Movement was lost; public confidence was at an end; my occupation was gone. It was simply an impossibility that I could say any thing henceforth to good effect, when I had been posted up by the marshal on the buttery-hatch of every College of my University, after the manner of discommoned pastry-cooks, and when in every part of the country and every class of society, through every organ and opportunity of opinion, in newspapers, in periodicals, at meetings, in pulpits, at dinner-tables, in coffee-rooms, in railway carriages, I was denounced as a traitor who had laid his train and was detected in the very act of firing it against the time-honoured Establishment. Newman was one of a number of Anglican clergy who were received into the Roman Catholic Church during the 1840s who were either members of, or were influenced by, Tractarianism.\n\nOther people influenced by Tractarianism who became Roman Catholics included:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40890823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40890823", "title": "Paduspanids", "text": "Paduspanids\n\nThe Paduspanids or Baduspanids (Persian: پادوسبانیان) were a local dynasty of Tabaristan which ruled over Royan, Nur and Rostamdar. The dynasty was established in 665, and ended in 1598 when the Safavids invaded their domains.\n\nThe founder of the Paduspanid dynasty was Paduspan I, (also known by the Arabicized form \"Baduspan\"), who was the son of Gil Gavbara, the founder of the Dabuyid dynasty. Thus making the Paduspanids of Sasanian descent like the Dabuyids.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10071320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10071320", "title": "Purusha Mruga", "text": "Purusha Mruga\n\nPurusha Mruga was renowned as one of the biggest devotees of Lord Shiva. As the name suggests, he was half man and half animal.He was also called \" Vyaghrapada\". In the Mahabharata, the Pandavas were performing the Rajasuya Yagna. Yudhishthira suggested that Purusha Mruga's presence in the Rajasuya Yagna would be most auspicious and assigned Bhima to invite the revered guest. Bhima, on his way, is said to have met an old monkey who was Hanuman in disguise. After inquiring about the purpose of Bhima's journey, Hanuman plucked three strands of hair from his tail and handed them to him, saying it would be of help later. Taking blessings of Hanuman, Bhima continued on the journey. On meeting Purusha Mruga, Bhima introduced himself and requested the kind devotee's presence in the Rajasuya Yagna. Purusha Mruga calmly stated that he would attend the ceremony only on one condition. Bhima would have to run towards Hastinapur and he would try to catch him. In the event that Bhima was caught outside the boundary of Hastinapur, Purusha Mruga would eat him. Since Yudhishthira was very keen on Purusha Mruga's attendance, Bhima accepted the challenge.\n\nBhima ran very fast and was confident that he could not be caught. He turned back, though, only to find Purusha Mruga gaining on him and almost about to catch him. Bhima remembered about the three hair strands which Hanuman gave him. He dropped one of them and found it was replaced by millions of Shiva Lingam. Purusha Mruga, being a Shiva Bhakta, stopped to pay his respects to each of these. Bhima, pleased by the boon, nevertheless continued running, but soon he found Purusha Mruga trailing him closely after worshipping all the Shiva Lingams. He dropped the second hair. The same process ensued. Similarly, Bhima dropped the third hair too. Finally, when nearing the door of Hastinapur and almost crossing it, Purusha Mruga got hold of Bhima's leg. Purusha Mruga told Bhima that he would eat him. Bhima, though, claimed to have entered Hastinapur. At that moment, Yushishthira and Krishna arrived on the scene. After narrating the entire incident to Yudhishthira, Purusha Mruga demanded justice. Yudhishthira pointed out that Bhima's leg was the only part outside the boundary of Hastinapur and therefore, legally Purusha Mruga could eat his leg only. Pleased by the impartial and thoughtful justice imparted by Yushishthira (Dharmaraja), Purusha Mruga showered lavish praise on him and let Bhima go. He blessed the Rajasuya Yagna and the Pandavas by attending the ceremony.\nYou can see stones inscribed in \" Shiva temple in Chidambaram\", \n\nReferences\n- https://www.quora.com/Why-did-Hanuman-stop-Bheem-on-his-way\n- http://devdutt.com/articles/indian-mythology/mahabharata/the-indian-sphinx.html\n"}
{"id": "35647513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35647513", "title": "Religious views of Fidel Castro", "text": "Religious views of Fidel Castro\n\nThe religious views of Fidel Castro are a matter of public interest. According to the \"Washington Post\", former President of Cuba Fidel Castro's letters from prison suggest that he \"was a man of unusual spiritual depth – and a fervent believer in God.\" Writing to the father of a fallen comrade, Castro writes: \nI will not speak of him as if he were absent, he has not been and he will never be. These are not mere words of consolation. Only those of us who feel it truly and permanently in the depths of our souls can comprehend this. Physical life is ephemeral, it passes inexorably. . . . This truth should be taught to every human being – that the immortal values of the spirit are above physical life. What sense does life have without these values? What then is it to live? Those who understand this and generously sacrifice their physical life for the sake of good and justice – how can they die? God is the supreme idea of goodness and justice.\nCastro was baptized and raised a Roman Catholic as a child but did not practice as one. In Oliver Stone's documentary \"Comandante\", Castro states \"I have never been a believer\", and has total conviction that there is only one life. Pope John XXIII excommunicated Castro in 1962 after Castro suppressed Catholic institutions in Cuba. Castro has publicly criticized what he sees as elements of the Bible that have been used to justify the oppression of both women and people of African descent throughout history.\n\nIn 1992, Castro agreed to loosen restrictions on religion and even permitted church-going Catholics to join the Communist Party of Cuba. He began describing his country as \"secular\" rather than \"atheist\". Pope John Paul II visited Cuba in 1998, the first visit by a reigning pontiff to the island. Castro and the Pope appeared side by side in public on several occasions during the visit. Castro wore a dark blue business suit rather than fatigues in his public meetings with the Pope and treated him with reverence and respect.\nIn December 1998, Castro formally re-instated Christmas Day as the official celebration for the first time since its abolition by the Communist Party in 1969. Cubans were again allowed to mark Christmas as a holiday and to openly hold religious processions. The Pope sent a telegram to Castro thanking him for restoring Christmas as a public holiday.\n\nCastro attended a Roman Catholic convent blessing in 2003. The purpose of this unprecedented event was to help bless the newly restored convent in Old Havana and to mark the fifth anniversary of the Pope's visit to Cuba. The senior spiritual leader of the Orthodox Christian faith arrived in Cuba in 2004, the first time any Orthodox Patriarch has visited Latin America in the Church's history: Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I consecrated a cathedral in Havana and bestowed an honor on Fidel Castro. His aides said that he was responding to the decision of the Cuban Government to build and donate to the Orthodox Christians a tiny Orthodox cathedral in the heart of old Havana. After Pope John Paul II's death in April 2005, an emotional Castro attended a mass in his honor in Havana's cathedral and signed the Pope's condolence book at the Vatican Embassy. He had last visited the cathedral in 1959, 46 years earlier, for the wedding of one of his sisters. Cardinal Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino led the mass and welcomed Castro, who was dressed in a black suit, expressing his gratitude for the \"heartfelt way to the death of our Holy Father John Paul II was received (in Cuba).\"\n\nIn his 2009 spoken autobiography, Castro said that Christianity exhibited \"a group of very humane precepts\" which gave the world \"ethical values\" and a \"sense of social justice\", before relating that \"If people call me Christian, not from the standpoint of religion but from the standpoint of social vision, I declare that I am a Christian.\"\n\nOn March 28, 2012, Castro had a 30-minute meeting with Pope Benedict XVI, during the Pope's three day visit to Cuba. The Pope had previously called for an end to the U.S. embargo on Cuba, and the Pope made statements encouraging a more open Cuban society, while Castro asked the Pope about his role and about the changes the Church had experienced over the last century.\n\nOn September 20, 2015, Castro met with Pope Francis during the Pope's three day visit to Cuba. where they discussed protecting the environment and the problems of the modern world.\n\n"}
{"id": "33304932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33304932", "title": "Secularism in Pakistan", "text": "Secularism in Pakistan\n\nThe concept of the Two-Nation Theory on which Pakistan was founded, was largely based on Muslim nationalism. Secularism in Pakistan went from being a matter of practice in law by the Government of Pakistan to a political movement opposing the Islamization policies of the military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq in the 1980s. The supporters of Islamisation on the other hand assert that Pakistan was founded as a Muslim state and that in its status as an Islamic republic, it must thereby implement Islamic laws, known as Shariat. And that the context of Jinnah's speech was true implementation of Islam in which all religions would have equal rights and live as free citizens as supported by the Islamic jurisprudence itself as distinguished from a religious oligarchy.\n\nOne of Pakistan's most popular media outlets, Dawn (newspaper), was originally founded by Jinnah and still identifies as secular. Other popular media outlets like Express Tribune, Daily Times (Pakistan), and Pakistan Today also identify on a liberal and progressive platform. \n\nAlthough Pakistan was founded as a separate state for Muslims in the Indian subcontinent in 1947, it remained a Dominion in the British Commonwealth and did not immediately become an Islamic state. Although the 1949 Objectives Resolution envisaged an official role for Islam as the state religion, the state retained the most of the laws that were inherited from the secular British legal code that had been enforced by the British Raj since the 19th century.\n\nIn 1956, the state adopted the name of the \"Islamic Republic of Pakistan\", declaring Islam as the official religion, but did not take any further measures to adopt Islamic laws. The country's military rulers General Ayub Khan (1958–1969) and General Yahya Khan (1969–1971) continued a secularist tradition and repressed much of Islamist political activism.\n\nThere are diverse opinions in Pakistan about whether Jinnah envisioned Pakistan to be a secular state or an Islamic state. His views as expressed in his policy speech on 11 August 1947 said:\n\n“….Religion should not be allowed to come into Politics….Religion is merely a matter between man and God”. [Jinnah, Address to the Central Legislative Assembly, 7 February 1935]\n\n“….in the name of Humanity, I care more for them [the Untouchables] than for Mussalmans. ” [Jinnah, Speaking about the Shudras or Untouchables, during his address at the All India Muslim League session at Delhi, 1934 ]\n\n“….I am not fighting for Muslims, believe me, when I demand Pakistan.” [Jinnah, Press Conference, 14 November 1946]\n\n”But make no mistake : Pakistan is NOT a theocracy or anything like it.” [ Jinnah, Message to the people of Australia, 19 February 1948 ]\n\nIt has been argued by secularists that in this speech Jinnah wanted to point out that Pakistan would be a secular state. But Islamists argue that associating an Islamic state with a theocratic state is wrong and a true Islamic state would also be giving the said rights to the minorities and hold them in equal status and this statement was rather to distinguish it from a religious oligarchy.\nIslamists use these statements of Jinnah for Counterpropaganda:\n\n\nEarly in the history of the state of Pakistan (12 March 1949), a parliamentary resolution (the Objectives Resolution) was adopted :\n\nThis resolution later became key source of inspiration for writers of Constitution of Pakistan and is included in constitution as preamble.\n\nAs a reaction to the bifurcation of Pakistan (due to the rise of secularist forces in East Pakistan) in 1971, Islamic political parties began to see an increase in popular support. In the 1970s, the populist and elected Prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto caved in to a major demand of the Islamic parties by declaring the Ahmadiyya Community to be non-Muslims. Under the constitution of 1973, Bhutto also banned alcohol, gambling and night clubs.\n\nBhutto was overthrown in 1977 by Chief of Army Staff General Zia-ul-Haq, who went considerably further with the formal campaign of Islamization of Pakistan (1977–1988). However, Pakistan is still a semi-secular state and Islamists and Islamic democratic parties in Pakistan are relatively less influential then democratic Islamists of other Muslim democracies. (\"See also\": Islam and secularism)\n\nPakistan elected Muslim world's first female prime minister Benazir Bhutto in 1988 (and again in 1993). She did not repeal most of the Islamic laws of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto (her father) and General (later president) Zia-ul-Haq, but promoted secularism through media, cultural policies, general policy making and style of governance, etc. Military ruler Pervez Musharraf promoted secularism under the banner of \"Enlightened Moderation\" during his nine years long military rule (1999–2008).\n\nBenazir Bhutto's assassination in 2007 and the murder of Salman Taseer, a Pakistani politician calling for the removal of the blasphemy laws, have provoked secularists in Pakistani politics, media and civil society. Government led by Bhutto's Pakistan Peoples Party has followed the legacy of Benazir Bhutto's secular style of governance during five years long democratic period (2008–2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "15056160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056160", "title": "Shituf", "text": "Shituf\n\n\"Shituf\" is first mentioned in the commentary of Tosafot on the Babylonian Talmud, in a passage concluding with a lenient ruling regarding non-Jews. Later authorities are divided between those who view Tosfot as permitting non-Jews to swear by the name of God even if they associate other deities with that name, and those who view Tosfot as permitting non-Jews to actually worship such deities.\n\nThough \"shituf\" is primarily used as a means of determining how to relate to Christians, it is applied to other religions as well. It is frequently used as a reason to justify interfaith dialogue with Christians.\n\nJewish views, as codified in Jewish law, are split between those who see Christianity as outright idolatry and those who see Christianity as \"shituf\". While Christians view their worship of a trinity as monotheistic, Judaism generally rejects this view.\n\nThe Talmud warns against causing an idolater to take oaths. The commentators living in Christian Germany in the 12th century, called Tosafists, permitted Jews to bring a Christian partner to court in partnership during a breakup even though the Christian would take an oath by God, which to Christians would include Jesus, by saying that so long as another deity is not mentioned explicitly, there is no forbidden oath taking place, but only an association. Although all of the Tosafists agreed that partnerships that may lead to such an oath may not be entered into originally, they disagree as to once such a partnership exists whether or not one may go to court in order to not to lose his portion of the partnership and even though such an oath is a side-effect. In a terse comment, they wrote:\n\nIt is permissible to [cause a gentile's oath through litigation with one's non-Jewish partner because] today all swear in the name of the saints to whom no divinity is ascribed. Even though they also mention God's name and have in mind another thing, in any event no idolatrous name is actually said, and they also have the Creator of the world in mind. Even though they associate (\"shituf\") God's name with \"something else\", we do not find that it is forbidden to cause others to associate (\"shituf\"), and there is no issue of placing a stumbling block before the blind (see Leviticus ) [by entering into litigation with the non-Jewish business partner, thereby causing him to take an oath] because Noachides were not warned about it.\n\nIn the 16th Century, the terse comment is explained as follows by Moses Isserles, where it is seemingly expanded to allowing partnerships in the first place:\n\nMoses Mendelssohn, the 18th century Jewish Enlightenment thinker, used the concept of \"shituf\" as cited in Tosafot to justify any form of association of God with another entity. \n\n[However,] the nations of the world though they recognize the entity of God ... they nevertheless worship another entity besides Him. A few worship the angels above believing that God apportioned to each one of them a nation or country ... to rule, and they have the power to do good or bad as they please.\nAnd these are called \"other gods\" in the Torah... And a few [of the nations of the world] worship the stars in the sky ... or people ... and bow down to them, as is known. And the judgment of the intellect does not require to forbid such worship to a Son of Noah if he does not intend to remove himself from the realm of God because by what [obligation] must he offer service and prayer to God alone? And if he hopes for good and fears bad from an entity besides Him and acknowledges that also that entity is subject to God, it is not beyond the intellect for him to offer sacrifices, incense, and libation and to pray to this entity be it an angel, demon, or person... And who would say to us [Jews] that such offerings are appropriate for God only had He not warned us against [offering to other gods] in His Torah.\n\nSome contemporary Orthodox commentators have stated the allowance for \"shituf\" extends only to belief in multiple or complex deity, but not to worship of such a thing:\n\nOne contemporary view of Shituf holds that in Judaism there is allowance for Gentile belief that there are other gods besides the Creator, but forbidding actual worship of them:\n\nSo long as ascribing power to a deity other than the Creator remains conceptual, it is permissible to the Children of Noah according to many authorities. But worship of this independent being is clearly idolatry.\n\nHowever, other 20th century explanations differ. Rabbi Avrohom Yeshaya Karelitz (the Chazon Ish) wrote that Jewish law considers Christianity to be idolatry, and that the entire concept of \"shituf\" in Jewish law was only an \"ad hoc\" permission applying solely to oaths in court.\n\nThis position was explained by Orthodox historian of halakha Rabbi David Berger, as follows:\n\nEven medieval Jews understood very well that Christianity is \"avodah zarah\" of a special type. The tosafists assert that although a Christian pronouncing the name of Jesus in an oath would be taking the name of \"another god,\" it is nonetheless the case that when Christians say the word \"God,\" they have in mind the creator of heaven and earth. Some later authorities took the continuation of that \"Tosafot\" to mean that this special type of avodah zarah is forbidden to Jews but permissible to gentiles, so that a non-Jew who engages in Christian worship commits no sin.\n\nStill other Orthodox historians have stated that \"shituf\" may not be forbidden to non-Jews, but present this more softly. Rabbi Walter Wurzburger wrote:\n\nWith all our appreciation of Christianity as an avenue to God available to the non-Jewish world, we must not gloss over the fact that the Trinitarian faith still falls short of our universal religious ideals. While the belief in the Trinity - classified by the Halakhah as Shituph - may not be regarded as downright prohibited to the non-Jew, we still cannot recommend it as the ideal way in which the non-Jew should relate himself to God.\"\n\nConservative Rabbi Louis Jacobs took a more conciliatory approach:\n\nChristian thinkers frequently assert that Jewish polemics against trinitarianism are based on an inadequate understanding of what the doctrine really means. It is no doubt true that crude attacks on Christianity as tritheism are unfounded (tritheism is, in fact, heresy from the Christian point of view) and there are subtleties in the doctrine which Christians have tried to uncover. But the fact remains that all Jewish thinkers have rejected trinitarianism as Judaism understands it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "424511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424511", "title": "Simon Wiesenthal Center", "text": "Simon Wiesenthal Center\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center (SWC) is a Jewish human rights organization established in 1977 by rabbi Marvin Hier. According to its mission statement, it is \"a global human rights organization researching the Holocaust and hate in a historic and contemporary context. The Center confronts anti-Semitism, hate and terrorism, promotes human rights and dignity, stands with Israel, defends the safety of Jews worldwide, and teaches the lessons of the Holocaust for future generations.\"\n\nThe Center is headquartered in Los Angeles, California. It is accredited as a non-governmental organization (NGO) at the United Nations, the UNESCO, and the Council of Europe.\n\nThe Center closely interacts on an ongoing basis with a variety of public and private agencies, meeting with elected officials, the United States and foreign governments, diplomats and heads of state. The Center promotes the prosecution of Nazi war criminals, and fights against extremist groups, neo-Nazism, and hate on the Internet. The Center is also involved in Holocaust and tolerance education. Its \"Campus Outreach\" division is part of the Israel on Campus Coalition (ICC).\n\nThe Center is named after Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal; Hier’s relationship with Wiesenthal deteriorated during the 1980s, and in 1993 Wiesenthal unsuccessfully petitioned the Board of Directors for Hier’s removal.\n\nThe organization is named after Simon Wiesenthal, a famous Nazi hunter. Simon Wiesenthal had nothing to do with the operation or activities of the SWC other than giving it its name.\n\nThe SWC is headed by Rabbi Marvin Hier, its dean and founder. Rabbi Abraham Cooper is the associate dean and Rabbi Meyer May is the executive director. The organization publishes a seasonal magazine, \"Response\".\n\nThe Center's educational arm, Museum of Tolerance, was founded in 1993 and hosts 350,000 visitors annually. Some of the programs sponsored by the Museum include:\n\nNew York Tolerance Center is a professional development multi-media training facility targeting educators, law enforcement officials, and state/local government practitioners.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center and its Museum of Tolerance is one of many partner organizations of the Austrian Service Abroad (Auslandsdienst) and the corresponding Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service (Gedenkdienst).\n\nIn April 2016, the New York City Council stopped funding for the Simon Wiesenthal Center’s Museum of Tolerance following the arrest of a former board member who has been accused of raising $20 million from a city correctional officers' union through kickbacks. The Simon Wiesenthal Center issued a statement saying that the member had resigned from its board on June 15, and that the Centre was unaware of any alleged unethical or illegal activities regarding its donors.\n\nMoriah Films, also known as the Jack and Pearl Resnick Film Division of the SWC, was created to produce theatrical documentaries to educate both national and international audiences, with a focus on contemporary human rights and ethical issues and Jewish experience. Two films produced by the division, Genocide (film) and The Long Way Home (1997 film) have received the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.\n\nMoriah films has worked with numerous actors to narrate their productions. Including but not limited to Elizabeth Taylor, Michael Douglas, Nicole Kidman, Morgan Freeman, Patrick Stewart, and Sandra Bullock.\n\nThe headquarters of the Simon Wiesenthal Center is in Los Angeles. However, there are also international offices located at the following cities: New York City, Miami, Toronto, Jerusalem, Paris, Chicago, and Buenos Aires.\n\nThrough its national and international offices the Center carries out its above mentioned mission of preserving the memory of the Holocaust.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1990 the Center published seven volumes of Simon Wiesenthal Center Annual, focusing on the scholarly study of the Holocaust, broadly defined. This series is .\n\nThe Library and Archives of the center in L.A. has grown to a collection of about 50,000 volumes and non-print materials. Moreover, the Archives incorporates photographs, diaries, letters, artifacts, artwork and rare books, which are available to researchers, students and the general public.\n\nEfraim Zuroff, director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center office in Jerusalem, is the coordinator of Nazi war crimes research worldwide for the Wiesenthal Center and the author of its annual (since 2001) \"Status Report\" on the worldwide investigation and prosecution of Nazi war criminals which includes a \"most wanted\" list of Nazi war criminals.\n\nIn November 2005, the Simon Wiesenthal Center gave the name of four suspected former Nazi criminals to German authorities. The names were the first results of Operation Last Chance, a drive launched that year by the center to track down former Nazis for World War II-era crimes before they die of old age.\n\nThe center is featured in the real-life-story-based \"Freedom Writers.\" An exterior view of the center is given, and there are scenes inside the museum, showing simulation entrances to gas chambers in death camps.\n\nIn 2013, the SWC released a comprehensive report on the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which is a global campaign promoting various forms of boycott against Israel. The report analyzed the campaign throughout its various outlets and asserted that the BDS movement is a \"thinly-disguised effort to coordinate and complement the violent strategy of Palestinian, Arab, and Muslim 'rejectionists' who have refused to make peace with Israel for over six decades, and to pursue a high-profile campaign composed of anti-Israel big lies to help destroy the Jewish State by any and all means\". The report also noted that the BDS campaign attacks Israel's entire economy and society, holding all (Jewish) Israelis as collectively guilty.\n\nOn March 8, 2007, the head of international relations for the Simon Wiesenthal Center, Stanley Trevor Samuels, was convicted (and later acquitted in an appeal) of defamation by a Paris courthouse for accusing the French-based Committee for Charity and Support for the Palestinians (CBSP) of sending funds to the families of Palestinian suicide bombers.\n\nIn its filing of the suit, the CBSP labelled the accusations \"ridiculous\", stating that its charitable work consisted of providing aid to some 3,000 Palestinian orphans. The court ruled that documents produced by the Wiesenthal Center established no \"direct or indirect participation in financing terrorism\" on the part of the CBSP, and that the allegations were \"seriously defamatory\".\n\nThe Wiesenthal Center appealed the court ruling, and the appeal was granted in July 2009.\n\nAfter a Canadian newspaper reported upon the 2006 Iranian sumptuary law controversy (based on a report written by Iranian exiles on Iranian religious minorities being forced to wear badges identifying them to Muslims), the dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, Rabbi Marvin Hier, wrote to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan urging the international community to pressure Iran to drop the measure.\n\nNumerous other sources, including Maurice Motamed, the Jewish member of the Iranian parliament and the Iranian Embassy in Canada, refuted the report as untrue. The \"National Post\" later retracted the original article (\"Iran eyes badges for Jews: Law would require non-Muslim insignia\") and published an article, to the contrary (\"Experts say reports of badges for Jews in Iran is untrue\"). However, the Simon Wiesenthal Center refused to admit any mistake on their part and insisted that the widely debunked allegations were true.\n\nIn January 2004, the Paris branch of the center asked the President of Ireland, Mary McAleese, to suspend the 'Irish Museum of the Year Award' given to the Hunt Museum in Limerick, until the conclusion of a demanded inquiry into the provenance of a significant number of items in the collection. He argued that this was needed due to the close ties of the founders, John and Gertrude Hunt to the head of the Nazi Party (NSDP-AO) in Ireland, among others, and British suspicions during the war of espionage activity on the part of the couple. The center also claimed, 'The \"Hunt Museum Essential Guide\" describes only 150 of the over 2000 objects in the Museum's collection and, notably, without providing information on their provenance - data that all museums are now required to provide in accordance with international procedure.'\n\nThis essentially accused the Hunt Museum in Limerick of keeping art and artifacts looted during the Second World War, which was described as \"unprofessional in the extreme\" by the expert Lynn Nicholas that cleared the museum of wrongdoing. The claim was taken so seriously that the examination was supervised by the prestigious Royal Irish Academy, whose 2006 report is available on line. McAleese, who had been written to by the center, then criticized a Dr. Samuels of the center for \"a tissue of lies\", adding that the center had diminished the name of Simon Wiesenthal. The center said that it had prepared its own 150-page report in May 2008 that would be published after vetting by its lawyers, but had not done so as of November 2008. The report was finally made on 12 December 2008.\n\nA branch museum in Jerusalem, expected to be completed in 2009, sparked protests from the city's Muslim population. The museum is being built on what Rabbi Marvin Hier described as \"derelict land\": a thousand-year-old Muslim graveyard called the Mamilla Cemetery, much of which has already been paved over. The complaints were rejected by Israel's Supreme Court, leading to a demonstration by hundreds of people in November 2008. On November 19, 2008 a group of US Jewish and Muslim leaders sent a letter to the Wiesenthal Center urging it to halt the construction of the museum on the site.\n\nAs of February 2010, the Museum of Tolerance's plan for construction has been fully approved by Israeli courts and is proceeding at the compound of Mamilla Cemetery. The courts ruled that the compound had been neglected as a spiritual site by the Muslim community, in effect not functioning as a cemetery for decades (while simultaneously used for other purposes), and was thus \"mundra\", i.e. abandoned, under Muslim laws.\n\nThe Centre faults the Government of Canada's efforts to investigate and prosecute Nazi war criminals, and claims that approximately 2,000 Nazi war criminals obtained Canadian citizenship by providing false information.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center opposed the construction of Park51, a Muslim community center, two blocks from Ground Zero. The executive director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Museum of Tolerance in Manhattan, Rabbi Meyer May said it was \"insensitive\" to locate the centre there. \"The Jewish Week\" noted that the Center itself was once accused of intolerance when it built a museum in Jerusalem on land that was once a Muslim cemetery, after gaining approval from Israeli courts.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center welcomed the news that the Vatican has demanded that Bishop Richard Williamson recant his views denying the Holocaust before being re-admitted to the Roman Catholic Church. Williamson was one of the four priests from the Society of St. Pius X who were excommunicated 20 years ago for taking part in the consecration of Bishops contrary to Canon Law.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center criticized Hugo Chávez for various statements, including his January 2006 statement that \"[t]he world is for all of us, then, but it so happens that a minority, the descendants of the same ones that crucified Christ, the descendants of the same ones that kicked Bolívar out of here and also crucified him in their own way over there in Santa Marta, in Colombia. A minority has taken possession all of the wealth of the world...\" The Simon Wiesenthal Center omitted the reference to Bolívar without ellipsis, stated that Chávez was referring to Jews, and denounced the remarks as antisemitic by way of his allusions to wealth. Meanwhile, according to \"Forward.com\", the American Jewish Committee, the American Jewish Congress, and the Confederation of Jewish Associations of Venezuela defended Chávez, stating that he was speaking not of Jews, but of South America's white oligarchy. The Wiesenthal Center's representative in Latin America replied that Chávez's mention of Christ-killers was \"ambiguous at best\" and that the \"decision to criticize Chávez had been taken after careful consideration\".\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center strongly denounced politician-journalist Soichiro Tahara for his remarks against former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka and his daughter, former Foreign Minister Makiko Tanaka on his TV Asahi program \"Sunday Project\" in March 2009.\n\nIn the live broadcast, Tahara told Tanaka that her father, former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka was \"done in by America, by the Jews and (Ichiro) Ozawa, (then-leader of the Democratic Party of Japan) too, was done in (by America and/or the Jews).\" \n\nSWC's associate dean, Rabbi Abraham Cooper, condemned the Japanese band Kishidan for wearing uniforms resembling those of the SS, the armed wing of the Nazi party. The band wore military-inspired uniforms, adorned with the German medal Iron Cross and Nazi insignia such as the death skull and SS eagle on MTV Japan's primetime program \"Mega Vector.\" Cooper said in a written protest to the band's management company Sony Music Artists, MTV Japan and the Japanese entertainment group Avex (Kishidan's label at the time being and also the current one) that \"there is no excuse for such an outrage\" and that \"many young Japanese are \"woefully uneducated\" about the crimes against humanity committed by Nazi Germany and Japan during the second world war, but global entities like MTV and Sony Music should know better\".\n\nAs a result, Sony Music Artists and Avex issued a joint statement of public apology on their respective websites.\n\n\n\nArchival collections\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "15976693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15976693", "title": "Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of Central Asia and Kazakhstan", "text": "Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of Central Asia and Kazakhstan\n\nThe Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of Central Asia and Kazakhstan (SADUM) (; ) was the official governing body for Islamic activities in the five Central Asian republics of the Soviet Union. Under strict state control, SADUM was charged with training clergy and publishing spiritual materials, among other tasks. The organization was headquartered in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Established in 1943, SADUM existed for nearly 50 years. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the five newly independent republics reformed their respective branches of SADUM into their own national Islamic institutions.\n\nThe first spiritual assembly in the Russian Empire was established in 1788 in Orenberg. Like SADUM, the Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly was governed by a supreme mufti, and oversaw the appointment of imams and management of mosques throughout the empire.\n\nRussian administrators had been involved in the religious hierarchy of Central Asia since the initial conquest in the 1860s, though the level of government interference varied throughout the region. Some district chiefs were directly responsible for the appointment of instructors at the local madrasahs, as well as naming the overseers of religious endowments (\"waqfs\"). Other chiefs retained oversight privileges, but allowed the local community to run affairs autonomously, stepping in only when disputes arose.\n\nThe official attitude towards religion changed drastically under the Soviets. Initially the Soviets supported religious activity, specifically that of the Jadids, young Muslim reformers who sought to \"modernize\" Islam - a goal which fit nicely into Soviet ideals. In 1922 the Soviets even allowed the creation of local religious boards throughout Central Asia. These boards had many of the same functions which SADUM would inherit (though on a more limited scale) in the 1940s. The boards also were charged to be \"the link between the government and the people, to conduct the reform of religious affairs and to struggle with very unnecessary superstructures of Islam and the incorrect interpretations of Islam.\" \n\nBy the mid-1920s, however, the situation had changed. Having consolidated their power in the region, the Soviets began to show their true attitude towards religion. Over the next several years hundreds of mosques were closed or destroyed. The year 1927 saw the initiation of the \"hujum\", an effort to forcibly remove Muslim women's veils. By 1927 all madrasahs were shut down, and 1928 saw the elimination of waqfs. A 1929 law against religious practices effectively ended open religious activity in the country. Many Islamic leaders, including many Jadids, were \"liquidated\" during Joseph Stalin's Great Purge.\n\nThe creation of SADUM occurred in the midst of the Second World War (known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War). The Soviet government, fighting for its survival and requiring the support of all its citizens, relaxed restrictions against religion. As religious persecution subsided and mosques began to re-open, the Central Asian ulema saw an opportunity to push for concessions.\n\nIn June 1943, several prominent members of the ulema petitioned Mikhail Kalinin, the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, to permit a conference of the Central Asian religious elite in Tashkent. At this conference they planned to lay the foundations for a central Islamic organization. The ulema argued that this organization would allow them to better organize the regional war effort. Desiring to shore up Muslim support for the war, the Presidium approved a plan for the creation of the Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of Central Asia and Kazakhstan, to be headquartered in Tashkent. For the first kurultai, a preparation committee was formed which included notable theologists of Uzbekistan, led by Eshon Babakhan ibn Abdulmajidkhan, of Kazakhstan, led by sheikh Abdul Gaffar Shamsutdin, of Tajikistan, led by sheikh Salekh Babakalon, of Kyrgystan, led by sheikh Olimkhon Tura Shakir and of Turkmenia, led by sheikh Anna Ishan.\n\nThe organization was formally established on October 20, 1943.\n\nIts first chairman was Eshon Babakhan ibn Abdulmajidkhan.\n\nSADUM moved quickly after its founding to re-open local Islamic institutions and re-establish ties with the wider Muslim world. In 1945 a meeting was held with the Saudi king Abdul Aziz ibn Saud, after which Soviet Muslims were allowed to participate in the Hajj. The following year, 1946, saw the reopening of the Mir-i-Arab madrasah in Bukhara.\n\nA second center of Islamic learning, the Imam al-Bukhari Islamic Institute, was founded in Tashkent in 1971.\n\nIn 1990 Kazakhstan removed its \"qaziyat\" from SADUM and established an independent Muftiate for the Muslims of Kazakhstan. This new organization was renamed the Religious Administration of Kazakhstan's Muslims (; ). A kurultai (or meeting) of the Muslims of Kazakhstan was held in January 1990, at which time Ratbek hadji Nysanbayev, the top SADUM figure in Kazakhstan, was appointed Kazakhstan's new mufti. The president of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, also opened an Islamic institute in Almaty to train mullahs.\n\nUpon independence in 1991, Uzbekistan's branch of SADUM was renamed the Muslim Board of Uzbekistan. It was placed within the responsibilities of the Committee on Religious Affairs, which is under the Cabinet of Ministers.\n\nSADUM oversaw the Islamic activities in the five Soviet republics of Central Asia. The headquarters of SADUM was located in Tashkent, where the chairman of SADUM (known as the \"mufti\") held office. The mufti was elected at a gathering of all the regional Islamic clergy, which was called a kurultai. At the kurultai a presidium was also elected, which was known as the Council of the Ulama.\n\nSADUM was a strict hierarchical organization. Each republic had a SADUM representative office, which was headed by a qazi (except for Uzbekistan, which was headed by the mufti himself). Every qazi was appointed by and subordinate to the mufti in Tashkent, and within each republic all religious personal (such as imams and muezzins) were subordinate to their respective qazis. The four \"qaziyats\" were transformed into independent spiritual boards after the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nMajor theological questions were considered by the mufti and the Council of the Ulama, whose decisions were then related to the people through local mosques.\n\nThe directorate's economic department managed the organization's finances. It also saw to the management and upkeep of all mosques and Islamic architectural monuments of Islam.\n\nSADUM's center in Tashkent also included a library. It was founded by Ishan Babakhan, the first mufti of SADUM, shortly after the organization's creation. He donated over 2,000 of his own books to the library, and by 1980 the library had more than 30,000 works, including 2,000 manuscripts. Notable works in the collection include the first word-by-word translation of the Qur'an from Arabic to Persian, completed in 1267, and an original draft of a collection of hadiths from the 10th century.\n\nThe mufti of SADUM was the leader of the organization. Since SADUM was responsible for more Muslims than any other Muslim directorate in the USSR, their mufti was often referred to as the Supreme Mufti, or Grand Mufti. The Babakhan family held this role for three generations, spanning nearly the entire length of SADUM's existence. \n\nZiyaudin Babakhan removed Muhammadjan Hindustani from the Council of Ulema after Hindustani denounced him as a \"Wahhabist\". \"Wahhabist\" was a derogatory term used in the Ferghana Valley region for scholars whose \"fatwas\" deviated from traditional Hanafi interpretations.\n\nIn March 1989 an internal coup was organized against the last Babakhan mufti by Muhammad-Sodiq Muhammad Yusuf, a foreign-educated imam from Andijon. After the fall of the Soviet Union and the fracture of SADUM into independent state-run organizations, Muhammad Yusuf became the first mufti of Uzbekistan, but was removed from office in 1993.\n\n\nSADUM included a special publishing department which printed and distributed a variety of literature. A journal, \"Muslims of the Soviet East\" was consistently published in four languages (Arabic, French, English, and Uzbek) starting in 1969. The Council of the Ulama acted as the journal's editorial board.\n\nSADUM also supported several printings of the Qur'an. The first printing was in 1957, while a second printing based on an Egyptian model, was published in 1960. From 1969 and 1970 another version, based on a local 1913 Qur'an written in the \"naskh\" script, was published. A fourth round of Qur'ans were published in 1977.\n\nPublications by SADUM include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46427402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427402", "title": "Structural evil", "text": "Structural evil\n\nStructural evil or systemic evil is evil which arises from structures within human society, rather than from individual wickedness or religious conceptions such as original sin. One example of Structural evil within a society would be slavery.\n\nStructural evil arises within human societies because of the way humans act. Multiple individuals have commented and theorized on the subject of structural evil. Among these early thinkers are Rousseau and Robespierre. However, more modern thinkers on this subject are Thomas Nagel, Claudia Card, Cynthia D. Moe-Lobeda, and John Langan.\n\nRousseau proposed that the structures of human society were the main source of evil in his works such as the Discourse on Inequality (\"Discours sur l'origine et les fondements de l'inégalité parmi les hommes\"). He believed that humans are good by nature, but are rendered corrupt by society. Rousseau's reasoning is as follows: if society is supposedly composed of entirely naturally good human beings, then how can evil come about? It must come about because of the structures that are present in human society. These ideas were influential upon French revolutionaries such as Robespierre.\n\nThomas Nagel is a modern philosopher who has argued that the great evils of the 20th century, such as genocide, required extensive structural support from the societies in which they occurred. He believes that while a few individuals have the capacity to hurt other individuals, the capacity needed to deliver the amount of destructiveness found in the great evils of the 20th century requires extensive organizational structure. Individuals, such as Adolf Hitler, Josef Stalin, and Pol Pot, he noted may have been able to influence a whole society; however, they achieved this through manipulation of a wider social structure.\n\nClaudia Card is another modern theorist who has defined structural evil as being intolerable harm which results from the normal operation of social structures. Her list of such institutions is controversial as it includes marriage and motherhood.\n\nJohn Langan, an American author, criticized and summarized Pope John Paul II ideas of how structural evil arises. Langan states, \"Institutions, structures, and societies are not the subject of moral acts, ... 'social sins are the result of the accumulation and concentration of many personal sins.'\" After stating this, he points out a few criticisms in Pope John Paul II's theory.\n\nCynthia D. Moe-Lobeda proposed that structural evil is seen in everyday life and disguised through good, inevitability, divine mandate, and social necessity. In her book \"Resisting Structural Evil\" Moe-Lobeda states that structural evil consists of \"chains that bind us into systemic exploitation of others and of the Earth\" which are intricate and cleverly hidden. These \"chains\" come from the outside forces that include: power arrangements, ideologies, values, practices, and policies. According to Moe-Lobeda, structural evil may go beyond the physical power of individuals to counter, but it is composed of power arrangements and other forces that are humanly constructed.\n\nAccording to Andrew Basden, a professor of Human Factors and Philosophy in Information Systems at Salford Business School at the University of Salford: Manchester, structural evil builds up and prevails because individuals contribute to its creation, accept it without protest to it and done so over a long period of time. He also puts for that there is not just one kind of structural evil, but rather that there are many.\n\nWhen viewing Western society, structural evil can be found in the following aspects of reality:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58385085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58385085", "title": "Sujata Stupa", "text": "Sujata Stupa\n\nSujata Stupa, also Sujata Kuti stupa or Sujata Garh, is a Buddhist stupa located in the village of Senanigrama (Bakraur) slightly east of Bodh Gaya in the state of Bihar, India. It lies directly across the Phalgu River from the town of Bodh Gaya, where Gautama Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment. It is a walk of about 20 minutes, from Bodh Gaya to Sujata Stupa. It was initially built in the 2nd century BCE as confirmed by finds of Dark Grey polished wares and a punch-marked coin in the monastery nearby.\n\nThe stupa was dedicated to the milkmaid Sujata, from the village of Bakraur, who is said to have fed Gautama Buddha milk and rice at this spot as he was sitting under a Banyan tree, thereby ending his seven years of fasting and ascetism, and allowing him to attain illumination through the Middle Way.\n\nThe stupa was originally adorned with a pillar of Ashoka, which was quarried in part for building material in the 1800s, then placed at the Gol Pather intersection of Gaya, and finally moved to Bodh Gaya in 1956.\n\nThe stupa was an integral part of the original landscape at Bodh Gaya, and it was reinforced and enlarged several times over the centuries.\n\nThe Archaeological Survey of India made excavations in 1973-74 and 2001-06. A plaque found in the excavation has an inscription from the 8th-9th century CE that reads \"Devapala Rajasya Sujata Griha\", Devapala being interpreted as the 9th century Pala dynasty king, hence meaning \"Sujata House, of King Devapala\". This suggests that the last phase of construction of the stupa dates to Devapala in the 9th century CE, to commemorate the house where Sujata lived.\n\nBefore the discovery of this inscription, it was thought that this stupa had been dedicated to \"Gandha-hasti\", the \"Perfumed elephant\", and was therefore named \"Gandha-hasti stupa\". This interpretation was based on a description made by the 7th century Chinese pilgrim Hiuen Tsiang (in 大唐西域記: Buddhist Records of the Western World) who recounted that when he crossed the river (Niranjana) and went to Bakraur, he encountered a stupa and a stone column at the place where Gandha-hasti used to dwell (referring to the place where the Buddha, in a previous life, was reborn as the offspring of a Perfumed elephant). \n"}
{"id": "10781657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10781657", "title": "Tambor de Mina", "text": "Tambor de Mina\n\nTambor de Mina is an Afro-Brazilian religious tradition, practiced mainly in Brazilian states of Maranhão, Piauí, Pará and the Amazônia.\n\nTambor ís drum in Portuguese, and is very importance for the rhythm of worship. Mina derives from black-mina, from São Jorge da Mina, denomination given to the slaves coming from \"the coast located east of the Castle of São Jorge da Mina (Elmina Castle)\", now Togo, Benin and Nigeria, which were denominate mainly as black mine-jejes and mine-nagôs.\n\nSlavery in Maranhão was concentrated on the Capital (São Luís), the Itapecuru Valley and the Baixada Maranhense. cotton and sugar cane plantations, which contributed to the development of a large city, the grandeur of the colonial houses, built with slave labor, and the harmony, beauty and choreography of songs of African origin.\n\nTambor of Mina worships vodums, orixás, and entities (also called Encantados, spirits of people) who are called gentis (if they are of European origin, like King Sebastian of Portugal) or caboclas (if they are of native origin, like João da Mata, and Sultão das Matas).\n\nTambor de Mina is a mixture of of Dahomey Religion, fon (jeje), Yoruba Religion (nagô), fanti-ashanti, ketu, agrono or cambinda (angola-congo), Indigenous American and European traditions (Roman Catholicism).\n\nBecause of this cultural richness and syncretism present in the cult, these elements coexist in a harmonious way, being almost impossible to separate popular Catholicism, local folklore and the Encantaria, the Cure or Pajelança from the Tambor de Mina..\n\nIn the temples of Tambor de Mina it is common to hold feasts and parties of the popular culture of Maranhão that are sometimes requested by spiritual entities that like them, such as the Feast of the Divine Holy Spirit, Bumba-meu-boi, Tambor de Crioula and others.\n\nTerecô is the denomination of one of the Afro-Brazilian religions of the cities of Codó (called capital of macumba, by the great number of terreiros, or temples of afrobrazilian religions) in Maranhão and Teresina in Piauí, derived from Tambor de Mina. \n\nThere are two main models of Tambor de Mina in Maranhão: jeje and Nagô. The former seems to be the oldest and settled around the Casa Grande das Minas Jeje, better known as (Querebentã de Tói Zomadônu or House of Minas), the oldest temple (terreiro), which must have been founded in São Luís in the 1840s. The other, which is almost contemporary and which continues to this day, has settled around the Casa de Nagô (House of Nagô). Casa das Minas and Casa de Nagô are located in the same neighborhood.\n\nThe Casa das Minas (Querebentã of Tói Zomadônu) is unique, it does not have houses that are affiliated to it, therefore no other completely follows its style. It was founded by an African woman named Maria Jesuina, who came to Brazil as a slave and, according to Pierre Verger, was the Queen Nã Agontimé, Wife of King Agonglô of Daôme and mother of King Guezô. The most famous priestess (vondunsi) of the temple was Mother Andressa Maria, considered the last princess of Fon direct lineage tha headed the Casa das Minas. She was born in 1850 and died in 1954, at the age of 104.\n\nIn this house, the songs are in language jeje (Ewe-Fon) and only are worshiped deities called voduns, but although it does not have affiliated houses, the cult model of the Tambor de Mina is greatly influenced by the Casa das Minas. In the Casa das Minas, only women can command religious ceremonies. They are called vodunsis, the priestess of Tambor de Mina. The men had a special function of drum players, that is, abatás, hence the definition of \"abatazeiros\". The last vodunsi (Dona Deni) died in 2015, having been no full priesthood initiation rituals since 1914 (for reasons not clarified). There are still many festivals of popular culture in the temple, such as Feast of the Divine Holy Spirit, Tambor de Crioula, Bumba-meu-boi and others, with the Casa das Minas continuing with much cultural relevance. \n\nThe Casa de Nagô (Nagon Abioton) was founded by Josefa (Zefa de Nagô) and Maria Joana Travassos, african women of yourubá tradition, helped by the founder of Casa das Minas. They worship voduns, orixás (Yoruba deities), gentis and caboclos. The House of Nagô influenced the formation of the other terreiros (temples) of São Luís.\n\nThere are hundreds of Temples of Tambor de Mina, headed by women called vodunsis and men called vodunos, in Maranhão (like Casa Fanti Ashanti), or with origin from Maranhão, in Piauí, Pará (Terreiro de Tambor de Mina Dois Irmãos), Amazonas, in the Southeastern Region, like the Casa das Minas Toya Jarina, in the state of São Paulo.\n"}
{"id": "19180548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19180548", "title": "Temple of Kalabsha", "text": "Temple of Kalabsha\n\nThe Temple of Kalabsha (also Temple of Mandulis) is an Ancient Egyptian temple that was originally located at Bab al-Kalabsha (Gate of Kalabsha), approximately 50 km south of Aswan. \n\nThe temple was situated on the west bank of the Nile River, in Nubia, and was originally built around 30 BC during the early Roman era. While the temple was constructed in Augustus's reign, it was never finished. The temple was a tribute to Mandulis (Merul), a Lower Nubian sun god. It was constructed over an earlier sanctuary of Amenhotep II. \n\nThe temple is 76 m long and 22 m wide in dimension. While the structure dates to the Roman period, it features many fine reliefs such as \"a fine carving of Horus emerging from reeds on the inner curtain wall\" of the temple. From Kalabsha's \"sanctuary chambers, a staircase leads up to the roof of the temple\" where one can see a splendid view of the temple itself and the sacred lake. \n\nSeveral historical records were inscribed on the temple walls of Kalabsha such as \"a long inscription carved by the Roman Governor Aurelius Besarion in AD 250, forbidding pigs in the temple\" as well as an inscription of \"the Nubian king Silko, carved during the 5th century and recording his victory over the Blemmyes and a picture of him dressed as a Roman soldier on horseback.\" Silko was the Christian king of the Nubian kingdom of Nobatia.\n\nWhen Christianity was introduced to Egypt, the temple was used as a church.\n\nWith help from Germany, the temple of Kalabsha was relocated after the Aswan High Dam was built, to protect it from rising waters on Lake Nasser. The temple was moved to a site, located just south of the Aswan High Dam. The process of moving the temple took more than two years. The temple of Kalabsha was the largest free-standing temple of Egyptian Nubia (after Abu Simbel) to be moved and erected at a new site. Although the building was never completed, it \"is regarded as one of the best examples of Egyptian architecture in Nubia.\"\n\n\n(f) Le temple de Temple de Kalabasha sur Egypte eternelle.org"}
{"id": "11599908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11599908", "title": "Tonalli", "text": "Tonalli\n\nTonalli /to(ː)nalli/ (see also: Tonal) plays a multiplicity of roles; acting as a day sign, body part, and a symbol of the sun’s warmth. Ancient Nahuatl people believed that it was located in the hair and the fontanel area of one’s skull, and that the tonalli provided the “vigor and energy for growth and development”. It often overlaps with the force of teyolía which was often considered both an animating force (soul) and the physical heart in various Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nThe root “tona” acts as a verb to mean \"to irradiate or make warm with sun”.\n\nIn the Ancient Nahuatl belief, the tonalli is bestowed upon a child in utero by the aged deities known as Ometecuhtli and Omecihuatl, or the “Lord and Lady of Duality”. The implementation of tonalli is conducted through a process known as Fire Drilling.\n\nIt is believed that the old deities, Ometecuhtli and Omecihuatl transferred tonalli to human fetuses by “simultaneously breath[ing] the tonalli into the child and ignit[ing] a fire in its chest”. This Fire Drilling process involves an upright wooden piece being twirled rapidly on a flat base. It produces heat through friction, although this seemingly simple instrument requires considerable skill to make anything but smoke. The fire maker blows on an ignited spark to fan it into a vigorous flame, and the breathing (or blowing air) and friction in the chest animate an infant. The Franciscan friars connected this idea of Fire Drilling, namely, the conception of tonalli as breath, to Christianity as the infusion of breath into the body recalls the beginning of Genesis, where God the Father breathes life into Adam.\n\nThe Nahuatl people of Mesoamerica believed that the soul comprised three entities: Tonalli, Teyolía, and Ihíyotl, three souls in the body. Tonalli is located in fontanel area of the skull. Teyolía is located in the heart and Ihíyotl is in the liver. Each of these souls has its own functions and protective deities. But there are important differences. The Tonalli is the soul that enters and leaves the body. In Atla in the northern Sierra de Puebla, the inhabitants believe this is the soul that travels while you sleep at night, and then comes back. This is the soul that leaves and comes back every time you sneeze, or whenever you yawn, or even when you are startled. The Nahua believed that it was not good to sneeze and keep talking, because it causes your tonalli to leave and once your Tonalli leaves, you have to wait for a period of time before it returns. At that moment, anything can enter your body. However, the soul of the heart (Teyolía) and the soul of the liver (Ihiíyotl) only leave your body when you die; those two souls will exit only at the exact moment of your death.\n\nAlong with the heart, the ancient Mexica took blood from sacrificed prisoners and offered its fructifying force to the gods. On public and private ritual occasions, people drew blood from their ears, tongues, or calves, splattered it on pieces of native paper, and gave it to the spirits as tokens of thanks for benefits received or as requests for future favors. The gods could be coaxed or rewarded, less by the physical fluid itself than by the tonalli (life force) it carried and transferred to them. Among most modern Nahuatl speakers, the state of the life force may even be determined from the movement of blood in the body, whether this movement is experienced as a tic, a pulse, or a muscular movement. When blood drains from its proper course, the person loses his/her life force, and, essentially, soul.\n\nTonalli was highly valued in society and sought after in warfare and ritual sacrifice. The hair that covered the head, especially the fontanel area, was a major receptacle of tonalli, and it was believed that hair prevented the tonalli from leaving the body. During times of war, when a warrior would take a prisoner captive, the warrior would often seize the captive by the hair (the fontanel area). It was believed that the fortitude and valor of a warrior resided, in part, in the hair, and there are many pictorial scenes showing Aztec warriors grabbing the hair of enemies. The hair of warriors captured in battle was kept by the captors in order to increase their tonalli. The severed heads of enemy warriors were a supreme prize for the city, which gained more tonalli through the ceremonial use of heads. The tonalli embedded within skulls of enemy warriors and captives were also offered as gifts to the gods in the temple complexes. This was believed to be an offering to the gods in the form of a type of debt repayment.\n\nThe essence of tonalli was a force that could transcend the limits of the human body. Parts of the tonalli could reside outside the body in objects and animals. For example, tlacopatli beads were often left in the temple and represented a substitute for a child unable to go to the temple school, due to age restrictions. These beads served to contain the tonalli and do penitence for the underaged child. This points to the belief of the physicality of the soul and the embodiment of the tonalli. Stones were also used as repositories of the soul in a different sense. As tonalli was considered to be an indication of destiny or fate, the possession of gemstones served as direct evidence of those with positive fates despite low births and the auspicious destinies of members of the elite class.\nThe tonalli operated within a complex that involved the god of the birth date and the human. The soul of the individuality of a person, resided inside; but the god of the tonalli resided outside The co-essence of tonalli in a human body is subject to the power of an external god/time that could lodge in a person’s body. The dynamics of this joint essence relationship made it necessary for humans to implore each god of birth dates for internal strength, health and good fortune.\n\nTonalli, along with \"teyolia\" and \"ihiyotl\", was believed to direct the physiological process of the human body. It gave a person character, and was highly valued by the family and sought after in warfare and ritual sacrifice. It was believed that tonalli could be taken from a human body and either offered to the gods as a form of debt payment or acquired by the ritual person who touched the physical entity in which they resided. The concept of tonalli was not only limited to human beings. It infiltrated animals, gods, plants, and objects used in rituals.\n\nThe tonalli also determines the sign under which a person is born and informs fortune, character, and name. Tonalli conveyed astrological signs and names through birthdays, and in the Mexica divinatory system, a person’s birthday fell on one of the 260 name days in a special calendar. Individuals followed the path or code of conduct demanded by the tonalli and the day sign. This calendar was notable because it was used solely for divination and celebrating rituals in the deities’ honor. The calendrical name of a given person transmitted a character and fate to both men and women. A person born on the first day of the 260-day cycle, would be named One Crocodile and was given a positive character that would bring about authority, wealth, and fame. It is important to note that inauspicious day signs could be ameliorated through rituals such as first baths, and life events.\n\nIt was believed that individuals possess free will within the constraints imposed by their tonalli. One is born with either favorable or unfavorable tonalli and with a corresponding predetermined character. While this places certain constraints upon what one may accomplish, one freely chooses what to make of one's tonalli within these limits. Someone born with favorable tonalli may squander it through improper action; someone with unfavorable tonalli may neutralize its adverse effects through knowledge of the sacred calendar and careful selection of actions.\n\nAs an animating force within both the human and spiritual world, retaining tonalli provides consciousness and personality. The concept of soul loss was inherent to the ancient Central Mexican understanding of aging and death. The loss of tonalli, in its various stages, is known by states in which the person suffers slowed, impaired, or complete loss of consciousness. As the understanding of tonalli is reliant upon conceptions of warmth, heat, and the sun, the absence of tonalli is felt as fluctuations in internal temperature. The inability to re-implant the life force leads to a decline in health and ultimately death. The modern Nahua and the Mexica have identified the tonalli’s departure as the cause of illnesses with the same general and observable symptoms as death and dying.\n\n"}
{"id": "16365203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365203", "title": "Training routines (Scientology)", "text": "Training routines (Scientology)\n\nThe training routines (TR) are introductory services used in the Church of Scientology\nas well as affiliated programs Narconon, Criminon and WISE. The church describes them as a way of learning to communicate effectively and to control situations. Some critics and former Scientologists claim the training routines have a strong hypnotic effect, causing hallucinations and an out-of-body experience known as \"exteriorization\".\n\nTraining routines are used in the Narconon program to overcome influences that Scientology theory considers to be relevant to drug use and recidivism. The church claims that they have achieved a success rate of about 80 percent, but critics say that rates in reality are lower than reported.\n\nThese TRs, numbered 0–4, emphasize Scientology's \"cycle of communication\".\n\nTwo students sit facing each other with their eyes closed. The routine ends when both students can sit for an extended period without movement or drowsiness.\n\nIn the first exercise, a student and coach face each other with eyes open. The routine ends when the student can confront the coach for at least two hours without movement, excessive blinking, or loss of attention. The second exercise is the same, except that the coach tries to distract the student both verbally and physically.\n\nThe coach says things to the student to try to provoke a reaction. The coach may say or do anything except leaving the chair. The student must be able to sit and watch the coach without getting distracted or reacting in any way. If he does, the coach flunks him and the TR starts over. The coach will attempt to find the student's \"buttons\" (things that cause a reaction). The stated purpose of this TR is to train the student to \"be there\" in a communication situation without getting distracted.\n\nThe student reads several lines from \"Alice in Wonderland\" to the coach as if saying them himself. The coach either acknowledges the line or flunks the student according to whether the line is communicated clearly.\n\nThe coach reads the student lines from \"Alice in Wonderland\" in a reversal of TR-1. The student must acknowledge each line so as to clearly end the cycle of communication.\n\nThe student repeatedly asks the coach, \"Do birds fly?\" or \"Do fish swim?\" If the coach answers the question, the student acknowledges the answer. If the coach says anything else, the student advises the coach that he will repeat the question, and then does so.\n\nThe student repeatedly asks the coach a question as in TR-3. If the coach originates a statement unrelated to the question, the student handles the origination as needed and then continues the routine.\n\nThese TRs, numbered 6–9, emphasize the student's ability to control people and situations.\n\nThe student moves the coach's body around a room. In the first half of the routine the student \"steers\" the coach by silent actions. In the second half, the student uses verbal commands such as \"Walk over to that wall.\" Each successful verbal command must be acknowledged.\n\nThis routine is similar to TR-6, except that the coach resists the student verbally and physically. The student may use physical contact to enforce a command. The routine continues until the student can fully control the coach despite attempts to stop control.\n\nThe student repeatedly commands an ashtray to stand up and sit down, acknowledging each action. Although the student holds the ashtray throughout the exercise, the goal is to cause the ashtray to move purely by tone 40 intention.\n\nAs in TR-6, the student moves the coach around a room with verbal commands. The coach resists, and the student must use a combination of smooth physical control and unspoken intention to make the coach obey. The routine continues until the student can maintain exact intention despite resistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "11899630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11899630", "title": "Unified Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam", "text": "Unified Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam\n\nThe Unified Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam (UBCV) is a Buddhist organization in Vietnam. The Unified Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam was founded in 1964 in order to unify 11 of the 14 different sects of Vietnamese Buddhism which were present in the country at the time. The unification also came in response to a government that was increasingly being seen as hostile to Buddhists during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe UBSV's patriarch Thích Huyền Quang, and his deputy Thích Quảng Độ have been under house arrest due to their opposition to strict government control of religion, which was established after the communists won the war in 1975. (Times)\n\nIn 1981, six years after the communist victory, the new government consolidated all Buddhist organizations under the umbrella group Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam and placed it under government control. The Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam and all other non-sanctioned organizations were banned within Vietnam. It continues to operate in exile outside Vietnam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41389758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41389758", "title": "Want of Matter", "text": "Want of Matter\n\n“Want of Matter” (in Hebrew: דלות החומר; Dalut HaHahomer) is an Israeli style of art that existed in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. Characteristics of this style include the use of “meager” creative materials, artistic sloppiness, and criticism of the social reality and the myth of Israel society. Among the artists identified with “Want of Matter” are Raffi Lavie, Yair Garbuz, Michal Na'aman, Tamar Getter and Nahum Tevet.\n\nThe “Want of Matter” style grew out of a historical-retrospective view of Israeli art. The name originated in an exhibition called “The Want of Matter: A Quality in Israeli Art” curated by Sara Breitberg-Semel, which took place in March 1986 at the Tel Aviv Museum. Breitberg-Semel, then curator of Israeli art at the museum, mounted this exhibition as a summation and continuation of the exhibitions “Artist,Society,Artist” and “Different Spirit” (1981). It was an attempt to distinguish between local art and the style of international art of this period by means of a sociological and esthetic survey of Israeli artists and their attitude toward European artistic traditions. Breitberg-Semel saw the roots of the style in Pop Art, Arte Povera and Conceptual art. Another highly significant element in Breitberg-Semel’s view was the concept “anesthetic,” the roots of which could be found in the Jewish Talmudic tradition, which puts the text in the center of culture.\n\nBreitberg-Semel’s attempt to trace the development of “Want of Matter” gave rise to a clear historical line, beginning with the painting of the “New Horizons” group. The members of this group developed an abstract style that came to be known as “lyrical abstract” within the framework of which the painters created an abstraction of form influenced by Expressionism. The artists who followed in the footsteps of these artists, Aviva Uri and Arie Aroch, used the artists of the “Want of Matter” group as their esthetic model with regard to their relationship to the materials they used in their paintings, to their ascetic materialism, and to their combined use of the abstract and veiled iconography.\n\nThe first generation of artists in the “Want of Matter” group in the 1960s were partners in a number of avant-garde artistic experiments, the most important of which were the activities of a group called “10+” This group, which never had a unified political or esthetic direction, united around the influences of international art and the use of new artistic materials such as photographs to create two dimensional art, artistic “activity,” and even the use of the pioneering video art films in Israel. \nVisually, \"The Want of Matter\" style distilled its characteristics from these diverse influences, preferring painting to three-dimensional sculpture. Overall, this style can be summed up as focusing on the use of low-cost materials identified with the establishment of Israel, such as plywood, cardboard, collages, photographs arranged as collages, industrial paints, and writing and scribbling within the work. The use of these materials reflected the “Ars Poetica” approach and gave an intentionally humble appearance to the surface of the paintings, a look which was meant to add a dimension of criticism by the artists toward Israeli society.\n\nThe caption on the exhibit “Want of Matter” included a quotation from the Book of Deuteronomy (30:14) -- “But the word is very near you.” This quotation captured the point of view of this group of artists, according to Breitberg-Semel, a secular, modernist point of view mixed with Jewish symbolism. The works were pointedly free of religious symbolism, as Breitberg –Semel notes, defining the works of Raffi Lavie: “There is no Western Wall, no Old City Wall, no Augusta Victoria,” while on the other hand, the works were created “against the background of a religion whose esthetic and non-materialist point of view were its symbols.” The development of this idea can be seen the article “Agrippas versus Nimrod” (1988), in which Breitberg-Semel expressed the desire to inculcate into their art a secular, pluralistic point of view influenced by Jewish tradition. \nThe identification of Judaism with abstract art had already happened in the past, when it was based on the iconoclastic Orthodox tradition, in the spirit of the prohibition against the making of statues or masks that appears in The Ten Commandments. In 1976 this idea appeared in the Hebrew translation of an article by the American art critic Robert Pincus Witten, published in the first issue of the art journal Musag (in Hebrew: \"Concept\"). The typical expression of this point of view on the Israeli artist can be found in an article on the work of Arie Aroch, who is considered the model for Raffi Lavie and his generation. The concept of “anestheticism” fueled the writings of the young artists, as an image within the works themselves, writing which relates to the relationship between the Jewish Talmudic tradition and a preoccupation with borders and national symbols as an expression of critical Zionist Judaism. In Breitberg-Semel’s writing, these artists are portrayed as the “disinherited sabra,” cut off from Jewish tradition to the same degree that they were cut off from the European Christian tradition.\n\nIn the article by Breitberg-Semel that accompanied the “Want of Matter” exhibition, the artist Raffi Lavie was presented as the typical representative of the style. Lavie’s works put forth the idea of “The City of Tel Aviv” as a combination of European-Zionist modernism and neglect and abandonment. As the years passed, the image of Lavie himself, dressed sloppily in shorts, with rubber flip-flops on his feet, arrogant, “native,” and “prickly,” became the typical expression of this aesthetic school. Lavie’s works, which included childish scribbles, collages of magazine illustrations, advertisements of Tel Aviv cultural events, stickers with words “head” or “geraniums” written on them, and above all the plywood sheet, sawed to a consistent size of 120 cm., and painted in whitewash, became the most recognizable symbols of “Want of Matter.”\n\nIn addition to developing a comprehensive visual style, Lavie encouraged discussion of his works on a formalist level. In interviews, Lavie refused to relate to any interpretations of his work other than “the language of art” in its modernist aesthetic incarnation. In spite of clearly iconographic images in his works, Lavie insisted that these images were of no historical significance. Furthermore, the use of collage and techniques that lacked an artistic “halo” were intended, according to both Lavie and Breitberg-Semel, to erode and undermine the significance of visual images. Lavie’s students, however, continued to cultivate a preoccupation with form, as well as a continuing relationship with the modernist tradition, both of which caused problems for Lavie’s didactic separation of “form” and “content.”\n\nYair Garbuz formed a relationship with Lavie when he was just a young boy. For a number of years Lavie was Garbuz’s private teacher. Later Garbuz went from being a student to being a senior instructor at the “HaMidrasha” (School of Art). His work from these years created a link between the symbols that connected the ethos of the Zionist undertaking, as reflected in popular culture, with social and political criticism.\n\nHis two-dimensional works from the 1970s and 1980s include a mix of newspaper photos, documentary photographs, texts and other objects, combined in compositions that have no clear hierarchy. Some of his works, such as \"The Evenings (Arabs) Pass By Quietly\" (1979) and \"The Arab Village in Israel Very Much Resembles the Life of our Forefathers in Ancient Times\" (1981), criticized stereotypes rampant in Israeli society. For the cover he designed for No. 11 of the journal Siman Kriah [Exclamation Point] (May 1980), Garbuz inserted a photograph from the newspaper Davar of a self-portrait of Vincent Van Gogh captioned “Van Gogh in Tel Aviv.” Under the reproduction, Garbuz added a sort of poem, complete with nikud [vocalization] and illustrations, discussing the significance of labor. This work was one of a number of his works in which he presented his artistic activity as an artist in Israel - which he perceived as a distant and outlying place — as a kind of anarchism. Along with these two-dimensional works, Garbuz produced art videos, installations, and other forms of artistic activities in this spirit.\n\nHenry Schlesnyak, an American-born artist, juxtaposed collage with American Pop Art, and American symbolism—the most significant of which is his portrait of Abraham Lincoln – with scenes from Israeli art as reflected in various newspaper articles. Through this juxtaposition, Schlesnyak pointed out the moral aspect of artistic activity and his view of the place of Israeli art and the Israeli artist within it. Another layer of his work was composed of the “Tel Aviv” aesthetic, which played the role of critic in his works. For example reproductions of famous works of art were painted over in industrial shellac to give them the feeling of paintings by the European “Old Masters.” The “Hebrew translation” of this feeling included the devaluing of the paintings by “flashes of stains on the surface of the paintings, dirt, ‘want of matter’, thereby bringing it down to the level of what is appropriate to the experience of being here. “ In a 1980 collage, Schlesnyak glued onto plywood a newspaper picture of the writer Irving Stone, author of popular novels about artists, positioned at the front of the Tel Aviv Museum. Next to him stands Marc Scheps, Director of the museum, with his head enclosed in a circle. Above this Schlesnyak glued an article by Adam Baruch describing an exhibition of the works of Ya’acov Dorchin, a friend of Schlesnyak, with a caption composed of letterset printing.\n\nThe works of Michal Na'aman from the 1970s used photography to create collages. In these works Naaman put together various expressions emphasizing the limitations of the language of description and of vision, as well as the possibilities of imagination and the difference in visual expression. The practice of combining conflicting axioms indicated the failure or distortion of the language of description. Against the background of the visual dimension that reflected the aesthetic principles of “Want of Matter,” there appeared various representations and texts written in letterset printing or in handwriting that reflected the semiotic bankruptcy of the representation of images. Examples of this can be found in works such as “The Fish is the End of the Bird” (1977) and “The Gospel According to the Bird” (1977) in which Na'aman joined reproduced images of a fish and a bird into a kind of hybrid monster. In “Vanya (Vajezath)\" (1975) a conflict is created between the textual contents of the work with the visual contents, along with an emphasis on sexual motifs.\n\nIn spite of her feminist connections, Yehudit Levin’s works are more personal and less intellectual than the works of most of Raffi Lavie’s students. At the end of the 1970s and early 1980s, Levin created abstract compositions constructed from sawed and painted plywood, sometimes combined with photographs, then leaned against a wall. The names of these works, such as “Bicycle” (1977) and “Princess in a Palace” (1978) hint at a domestic connection. Even though these works appear in space as three-dimensional, their main interest lies in their complex relationship with the spaces seen within them. The “drawing” breaks out of the framework of the platform and flows over into space.\n\nA similar approach, without the psychological baggage, can be seen in the works of the sculptor Nahum Tevet. In his minimalist works Tevet shows an ambivalent relationship with three-dimensional space. In a late interview Tevet defined the motivation behind these works as a reaction to his studying art with Lavie. “It might be that to a certain extent this is a reaction to the place where I studied painting, in Raffi Lavie’s studio. He suggested painting in which the main interest was built around personal tensions and relationships, and I asked about the relationship between the painting as an object and the environment – the world.”\n\nHis works from that period dealt with the division and organization of work surfaces. In an installation from 1973-1974, Tevet placed white-painted plywood boards on top of chairs. The work showed the influence of the aesthetic principles of minimalist art and emphasized the temporariness of the expression of an artistic experience. In another work, “Beds” (1974), Tevet displayed rectangular, white-painted plywood boards, with legs attached to them that turned the two-dimensional “painting” into a work of sculpture. The interpretation of this work that grew up over the years required that, in addition to the formalistic aspect of the work, the biographical background of Tevet, as a former kibbutz member, needed to be taken into account. Relating to plywood as a “painting” and to its placement as a work of art reflected the ambivalent relationship of Tevet to the surface of the painting.\n\nIn 1966 Lavie joined the staff of Hamidrasha Art Teachers College in Ramat Hasharon, known as “Hamidrasha School of Art.” Around this educational institution a group of Lavie’s students, such as Michal Na’aman, Yehudit Levin, etc., grew up and began teaching there. As a group these artists formed a clear hegemony over art in the period following “New Horizons.”\n\nThe teaching method at Hamidrasha centered around the discussion of art and modern aesthetics, demoting the more traditional method of teaching art, which focused on drawing lessons opposite a model, to second place. The rational that gave rise to this pedagogical method sprung from the assumption that in a world in which art was expressed in endless new ways of execution, there was no way to learn all the new artistic techniques. Therefore the school tried to educate its art students first and foremost as “artists” and assumed that they would develop their technical skills independently, in accordance with their individual needs.\n\nA great many academic areas at Hamidrasha were subordinated to this pedagogic approach. “I reject all academic degrees and any attempt at the academization of the study of art in any form,” Lavie stated in a dialogue between him and Pinchas Cohen Gan. “I don’t think it’s possible to give out grades, and I don’t believe it’s possible to judge art.” As an answer to the inability to make judgments about art, which Lavie pointed out, the institution developed “public” criticism. Within the framework of this criticism, which was often dubbed “The Ceremony,” teachers were invited to a public discussion of their students’ work.\n\nThe “Criticism” demonstrated the centrality of the personality and the status of the teachers on the framework of the studies. Tsibi Geva, who was a student in the Hamidrasha and later became a teacher there, described Lavie as a central figure in art, through which the world of art was perceived…”We received everything through Raffi Lavie. The man controlled the flow; and he was, you could say, the authority that legislated and the authority that carried things out. He was the window onto the world; our education was acquired through the prism of his eyes.” Apart from the its teaching, Hamidrasha provided favored graduates with entrance to the “Hamidrasha School.” Within this framework, Lavie encouraged exhibitions of the school’s graduates. In May 1974 Lavie distributed a “pamphlet” in which he presented works by students who were close to him, such as Naaman, Tevet, David Ginton, etc., and aroused a storm of negative criticism. The Ross Gallery in north Tel Aviv also consistently displayed the artists of the new School. Later the artists of the School began displaying their works in the Julie M Gallery and the Givon Gallery in the center of Tel Aviv as well.\n\nThe exhibition “Want of Matter” presented the group of “Tel Aviv Artists” as the center of contemporary Israel art. In addition to representing the Socialistic-Pioneering spirit, these artists represented the secular character of Tel Aviv, under the banner of “the aesthetic, non-materialistic aspect of the Jewish tradition.” The group strengthened its sense of its own identity by forming a network of personal and professional connections among themselves. In the article, “About Raffi: Color patch, Crown. Catchup, Love” (1999), Yair Garbuz, Lavie’s student, presented his teacher in terms of his originality. “It’s not that we suddenly became the center of art… we’ve remained the provinces [...] In a certainly respect, Raffi painted and taught like a pioneer. In order for something to flourish here, it had to be carefully disguised. You couldn’t just say that maybe modernism was developing.” The period before the existence of “Want of Matter” was perceived by this group of artists as a mixture of immature explorations of abstract modernism with overtones of the romantic aesthetic, overtones which Lavie and his followers viewed as a danger capable of reducing art to something lacking in the characteristics and criteria of aesthetic judgment.\n\nThe tradition that Want of Matter created for itself attempted to follow what was happening in American and European conceptual Art. However, in contrast to them, this conceptualism was seen primarily within the framework of painting. Ariella Azoulay stated, in an analysis of the Israeli artistic scene, that this choice of painting as the dominant medium in Israeli art, was not a natural process, but rather was carefully directed by certain elements such as Sarah Breitberg-Semel, the museum and the art establishment, as well as the artists themselves. In fact, the choice of works by Breitberg-Semel for the exhibition honored works from the exhibit that were created by the same group of artists she had chosen to exhibit, but they were done using techniques other than painting. Examples of this are the video art films of Lavie and Garbuz, the mixed media works and installations of Michal Naaman, etc. Outside the museum establishment, avant-garde art such as mixed media works, installations and other conceptual projects that couldn’t be displayed at museums continued to be produced. Criticism of this kind was also heard during the exhibition. Only in the 1980s, Azoulay contends, with the weakening of the status of the central museums, did these trends, that were suppressed until then, rise to the top of Israeli art.\n\nThe attempt to present “Want of Matter” as the dominant hegemony in Israeli art, as the “center” of Israeli art, pushed many Israeli artists to the periphery of this center. Gideon Efrat, an art critic and curator set up a comparison between “Tel Aviv-ness” and the “School of New Jerusalem,” a term based on the metaphysical Christian interpretation of the city of Jerusalem. The main difference between the definition of this group and that of the “Tel Aviv School,” according to Breitberg-Semel, lay in the difference between their definitions of the status of art in relation to public space. While the “Tel Aviv” group strove to focus their art within the traditional definitions, the “Jerusalem artists” sought to draw an “eruv” – a ritual shared enclosed area – around art and life. Artists such as Gabi Klasmer and Sharon Keren (“Gabi and Sharon”) appeared in a series of performances of a political nature in Jerusalem public places; Avital Geva and Moshe Gershuni met with Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, Secretary General of the Histadrut, as an “activity” of “art.”\n\nIn contrast, the “Tel Avivans,” led by Lavie, developed a purist concept of art. In his view, art should focus on the physical boundaries of the plastic arts – on color, line, stain, and their relationship to the format of the work. In a 1973 interview, Lavie spoke about politics in art: “If an artist wants to say political things through his work, it’s his privilege. But he should know exactly what the work is called: a “placard.”\n\nIn the exhibition “Eyes of the Nation,” held at the Tel Aviv Museum in 1998, Ellen Ginton viewed the art of the period as a reaction to the political and social problems in Israeli society. This perspective undermined the traditional dichotomy that Efrat and Breitberg-Semel presented. Ginton held that this art was a response to the political and social crisis after the Yom Kippur War which continued into the 1980s. Eventually, the artists returned to more traditional artistic activity.\n\nAnother kind of criticism, political in nature, was directed against “Want of Matter” and the wide acceptance of Breitberg-Semel’s thesis. In 1991 Breitberg-Semel’s article “Want of Matter” was re-published, and she wrote a new introduction for it. In this new introduction she attempted to clarify the critical dimension of her thesis, declaring that “the generation that grew up after 1967 encountered a new ethos – the rule by occupation, with all its moral and material implications, and with all its enormous social changes, of which the bourgeois existence as the leading way of life, is only one aspect. This generation of artists, which would have difficulty freeing itself of the cultural images the exhibition bequeathed to them with regard to the dispute over local culture, would also have difficulty waving the flag of “want of matter” as the achievement that belongs to it and characterizes it. But perhaps, one day, things would change. The division in “want of matter” between “ethos” and “aethestics” is presented in the introduction as a fleeting moment, since the use that was made of it later cut it off from the social and political field in which it originated. \nIn 1993, an article by Sarah Chinski entitled “Silence of the Fish: The Local versus the Universal in the Israeli Discourse on Art” was published in the journal Theory and Criticism. The article criticized the narcissistic banner-waving of the self-pitying Tel Avivan.” Against this image of self-pity, Chinski juxtaposed the political reality that gave birth to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. “The ‘dispossessed sabra’,” writes Chinski, “has been so focused on self-pity for his imaginary losses, he hasn’t noticed that in his name massive expulsions of huge numbers of people have taken place throughout all the glorious history of the Palmach and the youth movement he has created in his heart.“\n"}
{"id": "5650950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5650950", "title": "Zoroastrianism in Azerbaijan", "text": "Zoroastrianism in Azerbaijan\n\nZoroastrianism in Azerbaijan goes back to the first millennium BC or earlier and was the predominant religion of Greater Iran before the conversion to Islam. The name Azerbaijan is Persian and means \"protect(or) of Fire\", which is said to have a direct link with Zoroastrianism.\n\nToday the religion, culture and traditions of Zoroastrianism remains highly respected in Azerbaijan, and the new year Nowruz continues to be the main holiday in the country. Zoroastrianism has left a deep mark in the history of Azerbaijan. Traces of the religion are still visible in Surakhany, Khinalyg, and Yanar Dag.\n\nOne of the world`s oldest religions Zoroastrianism was also practiced in the territory of Azerbaijan in ancient times. Zoroastrianism, sharing its name with its founder Iranian prophet Zoroaster (also known as Zarathustra), was the first monotheistic belief in the world and the official religion in Persia from 600 BCE to 650 CE.\n\nZoroastrians believed that a god called Ahura Mazda (Wise Lord) created the universe. Sacred book of Zoroastrianism Avesta consists of two main sections: the oldest section contains the Gathas including seventeen hymns and the younger Avesta containing commentaries to the older one. It also includes myths, stories and details of ritual observances. Fire is the most important symbol of the Zoroastrianism. Zoroastrians worshipped fire, because they believed that the fire represented the Holy Spirit of Ahura Mazda.\n\nAbout the date of birth of Zoroaster, historians mostly agree upon the dates of 660-583 BC with birth place being the lands of Azerbaijan. According to the local legends, Zoroaster was born in Caucasian Albania. But this idea is also found in other regions under influence of Zoroastrianism.\n\nAround 550 BC Cyrus II, also known as Cyrus the Great, integrated the area of southern Azerbaijan into the Persian Achaemenid Empire. During his reign Zoroastrianism was the dominant religion in the Empire. But he did not made any attempt to impose Zoroastrianism on the people of his subject territories.\n\nDuring the rule of King Darius I, Zoroastrianism was the official religion of the Achaemenid Empire including Azerbaijan. Darius I also allowed moderate religious freedom in the satrapies (provinces).\n\nAlexander the Great, King of Macedonia defeated Darius III in 331BCE. During this period Zoroastrianism began to weaken. Many priests were killed. Many sacred texts of Zoroastrianism were destroyed and lost forever.\n\nAround 328 BC, Satrap of Media and Atropates formed an independent entity Atropatena. The state was situated in Azarbaijan (historic Azerbaijan, i.e. \"Iranian Azerbaijan\"), and also included a minor part of the present-day Republic of Azerbaijan (i.e. Arran). As Zoroastrianism was the dominant religion in Atropatena, the capital of Atropatena, Ganzak, became a religious center. Zoroastrian temples were fueled by region`s rich oil deposits. In accordance with many historian sources, the name “Azerbaijan” is attributed to the Persian word for fire “Azar”, because of the popularity of Zoroastrianism in the region.\n\nIn the IV century BC, in the north of present-day Azerbaijan Republic and partially southern Dagestan, the entity of Caucasian Albania was established. Under Achaemenid, Parthian and especially Sassanid influence, Zoroastrianism was the dominant religion in the country.\n\nArmenians historian Movses Kaghankatvatsi investigating the political line of Yazdegerd II (438-457) in Albania noted that “During the reign of sinner Yezdeghird, devil instigated him to destroy Christian religion”, so he ordered to reject Christianity in Albania and obey fire-worshippers-magicians (Zoroastrianism).\"\n\nAs a result of excavations on the territory of Caucasian Albania many cultural finds, indicating the spreading of Zoroastrianism in the region were found.\n\nZoroastrianism`s traces can be found in Baku, Shamakha, Nakhchivan, Mingechaur, Talysh-Mugan areas.The Absheron Peninsula and Baku were centers of Zoroastrianism in ancient times. The Absheron Peninsula was rich in natural undamped torches of natural gas on the shore and in the sea. In the Sassanid era (3rd-7th centuries), when Zoroastrianism had risen to the level of state religion, Baku entered a new stage in its urban development. The most popular architectural monument of the city the Maiden’s Tower and ancient city walls and towers that are being preserved as historian monuments, belong to that time.\n\nAteshgah, one of the popular ancient monuments in Azerbaijan belonging to the seventeenth century CE is located in village of Surakhani, fifteen km west of the capital Baku on the coast of the Caspian Sea. In some sources this monument is called the fire worshippers' temple. The Ateshgah monument traces its origins to Zoroastrianism, which was dominant religion in ancient Azerbaijan. Ateshgah temple has been designated as world heritage site by UNESCO. The temple is not used since 1883 CE. \n\nThe village of Khinalig locating in the west of Guba district of Azerbaijan is also famous for its Zoroastrian temples. \nBurj sanctuary, reflecting Zoroastrian traces was built in the 7th century in the oldest part of Khinalig. There are many caves, pirs ('a holy place' or a 'shrine' in Azerbaijani) around the district.\n\nIn the 7th century the Arabians conquered Persia including Azerbaijan. During this period many Zoroastrian temples, libraries were destroyed and burned. Many Zoroastrian texts were lost. Zoroastrians were treated as dhimmis (People of the Book) as well as Jews and Christians by the Arabians. It means that they could retain their religious practices, but must pay extra taxes. Despite all the difficulties Iranians did convert and Zoroastrianism became a minority religion in Iran.\n\nThe six Gahambar festivals and Novruz are the seven important Zoroastrian festivals. All Novruz traditions are rooted in Zoroastrianism. These festivals occur at the spring equinox. According to Mary Boyce \"It seems a reasonable surmise that Novruz, the holiest of them all, with deep doctrinal significance, was founded by Zoroaster himself\".\n\nThe Persian historian Gardizi, in his work titled Zayn al-Akhbār, mentions Novruz among Zoroastrians festivals and points out that Zoroaster highly emphasized the celebration of Novruz.\n\nUsually preparation begins a month prior to Novruz holiday in Azerbaijan. People celebrate the last four Tuesdays prior to the festival being the day of one of the four elements - water, fire, earth and wind. As a tribute to Zoroastrianism beliefs, every Tuesday during four weeks children jump over small bonfires.\n\n"}
