{"id": "3637284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3637284", "title": "1210s in architecture", "text": "1210s in architecture\n\n"}
{"id": "226381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226381", "title": "1638 in literature", "text": "1638 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1638.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37622210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37622210", "title": "Accessible housing", "text": "Accessible housing\n\nAccessible housing refers to the construction or modification (such as through renovation or home modification) of housing to enable independent living for persons with disabilities. Accessibility is achieved through architectural design, but also by integrating accessibility features such as modified furniture, shelves and cupboards, or even electronic devices in the home.\n\nIn Canada, Flexhousing is a concept that encourages homeowners to make renovations that modify their house over time to meet changing accessibility needs. The concept supports the goals of enabling \"homeowners to occupy a dwelling for longer periods of time, perhaps over their entire lifetimes, while adapting to changing circumstances and meeting a wide range of needs\"; Universal Housing in the United States and Lifetime Homes in the United Kingdom are similar concepts.\n\nGreat Britain applies the most widespread application of home access to date. In 1999, Parliament passed Section M, an amendment to residential building regulations requiring basic access in all new homes. In the United States, the 1988 Amendments to the Fair Housing Act added people with disabilities, as well as familial status, to the classes already protected by law from discrimination (race, color, gender, religion, creed, and country of origin). Among the protection for people with disabilities in the 1988 Amendments are seven construction requirements for all multifamily buildings of more than four units first occupied after March 13, 1991. These seven requirements are as follows:\n\nAccess is typically defined within the limits of what a person sitting in a wheelchair is able to reach with arm movement only, with minimal shifting of the legs and torso. Lighting and thermostat controls should not be above and power outlets should not be below the reach of a person in a wheelchair.\n\nSinks and cooking areas typically need to be designed without cupboards below them, to permit the legs of the wheelchair user to roll underneath, and countertops may be of reduced height to accommodate a sitting rather than standing user. In some cases two food preparation areas may be combined into a single kitchen to permit both standing and wheelchair users.\n\nIn spite of these advancements, the housing types where most people in the United States reside – single-family homes – are not covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act, or any other federal law with the exception of the small percentage of publicly funded homes impacted by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. As a result, the great majority of new single-family homes replicate the barriers in existing homes.\n\nHomeowners may be challenged by the need to find renovators familiar with accessible design issues. The federal government of Canada and the provincial governments work jointly to share the cost of offering reimbursement programs for homeowners in need of house renovations for accessibility. These programs improve the ability of homeowners to fund house modifications, through renovating existing houses.\n\nMany ranch style homes and manufactured homes utilize a main floor slightly raised above ground level, but have an overall flat layout with either a crawlspace or slightly raised basement below for plumbing, electrical, and heating systems. These homes can be relatively easily modified to accommodate wheelchairs and walkers, with the installation of a long low-rise ramp outside the building, up to the house entrance, placed over the existing stairway. This ramp can then be removed at a later time, reverting to the stairway entrance if the handicapped access is no longer necessary.\n\nSplit level homes tend to be designed with multiple internal stairways and half-floor landings inside the building. There may be an entrance area inside the building at ground level, with stairs inside the entrance that immediately go up and down from the ground level. These homes are difficult to accommodate inexpensively since there is often no space available inside the structure to install long sloping wheelchair ramps to access the various floors. It may be possible to retrofit stair lifts into the stairwells or wheelchair lifts into balconies near the stairwell.\n\nMulti-story homes can sometimes be accommodated by installing a private residential elevator, which is usually much less expensive and has fewer design and layout requirements than a full commercial elevator. Homebuilders can in some cases plan for a future residential elevator by designing closet spaces in each floor stacked vertically with the same dimensions and location. At a later time the closet floors and ceilings are removed and the elevator equipment is installed into the open shaft.\n\nBelow are some current suggested architectural features of a universally-accessible house:\n\nA growing trend among senior citizens is to \"age in place\", reflecting a desire to retain independence for as long as possible. Adaptations for seniors take into account the most common physical impairments affecting the elderly. For example, a common cause of serious injury for seniors is falling inside the home. Adding handrails and grab bars throughout the home, particularly in bathrooms and along stairways, helps reduce the risk of falling. Other adaptations that improve accessibility for seniors include: easy-to-reach work and storage areas in the kitchen; reaching devices to grab objects on high shelves; lever handles on doors; toilet seat risers; walk-in showers; and bathtub and shower seats.\n\nAlzheimer disease presents specific challenges for caregivers, who need to make the home as accessible as possible to the elderly resident, while keeping safety features in mind. Removable stove switch knobs, locks on kitchen cabinets, electric kettles with automatic shut-off, and adding lighting to eliminate shadows in the house can all help caregivers to reduce dangers to the person with Alzheimer disease. Other features that can improve the well-being of the elderly person can include marking doors with conspicuous and distinct signs or objects such as ribbons or wreaths, can assist memory. Adding a cot or bed to the main floor of the house to allow the elderly person to rest without climbing stairs to a bedroom can be helpful to the Alzheimer patient. Furniture and clutter can also be removed to make the house more safe for an elderly person inclined to pace or wander.\n"}
{"id": "2880705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880705", "title": "Anne Beatts", "text": "Anne Beatts\n\nAnne Beatts (born February 25, 1947) is an American comedy writer.\n\nBeatts was born in Buffalo, New York, to parents she has described as \"beatniks\". Beatts grew to have what has been called an \"aggressive, dark sensibility\" which she later put to use in the world of comedy. Growing up in Somers, New York, she later attended McGill University.\n\nIt was at McGill University where Beatts discovered the darkly tragic humor of Jewish writers J. D. Salinger, Philip Roth, and Bruce Jay Friedman. At this time, Beatts converted to Judaism.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Beatts joined \"National Lampoon\" magazine, a national offshoot of the \"Harvard Lampoon\". She brought her dark sense of humor to her work, and co-wrote a parody advertisement for Volkswagen which was conceived by Philip Socci for which the magazine was later sued by the car company. The advertisement stated, \"If Ted Kennedy drove a Volkswagen, he'd be President today,\" accompanied by a photograph of a VW Beetle floating on a lake (an allusion to Kennedy's Chappaquiddick incident).\n\nBeatts became the first female editor of \"National Lampoon\" magazine, where she worked with Michael O'Donoghue. The two became romantically involved, and both soon joined the creative team of \"Saturday Night Live\" in the early years of the program.\n\nBeatts is regarded as something of a pioneer in TV and comedy circles, as an early female comedy writer and one of the very few female writers working in the \"National Lampoon\"/\"SNL\" comedy scene of the 1970s. At \"SNL\" she was nominated for an Emmy five times, winning once. She later won a Writer's Guild Award in 2001. She created the cult hit 1982 CBS series \"Square Pegs\" and appeared in several episodes (she also did uncredited acting work on the early \"SNL\"), and while the series lasted only one season it has been frequently rerun since and several of the cast members (most notably Sarah Jessica Parker) have gone on to greater fame.\n\nSince \"Square Pegs\", Beatts wrote the book for the 1985 Ellie Greenwich jukebox musical \"Leader of the Pack\" and produced the first season of \"A Different World\" in 1987-1988 and since then has gradually dropped out of sight, writing for television very rarely. Her most recent TV credit was the 56th Annual Writers Guild Awards in 2004. In 2006, she directed the series \"John Waters Presents Movies That Will Corrupt You\" with her writing and producing partner, Eve Brandstein for B-Girls Productions.\n\nBeatts is currently serving as one of the judges for the comedy competition Project Breakout.\n\nBeatts serves as Adjunct Professor in the Writing Division at the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts, as well as at Chapman University's Dodge College of Film and Media Arts. She also gives private lessons on writing sketch comedy.\n\nBeatts was portrayed by Natasha Lyonne in the 2018 Netflix film \"A Futile and Stupid Gesture\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36057471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36057471", "title": "Art in Australia", "text": "Art in Australia\n\nArt in Australia was an Australian magazine that was published between 1916 and 1942. The founders were Sydney Ure Smith and Bertram Stevens. It was published by Angus & Robertson in 1917–1918, Art in Australia Ltd in the years 1918–1934, and in the final decade (1934–1942) was published by the \"Sydney Morning Herald\".\n\nPublication was semi-annual 1916–1920, quarterly 1921–1930, bimonthly 1930–1933, and back to quarterly 1934–1942.\n\nSome editions were specifically devoted to individual artists, or had featured artists.\n\nIt came out in four series:\nThe editors were:\n"}
{"id": "18634282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18634282", "title": "Asociación de Artistas Plásticos de El Salvador", "text": "Asociación de Artistas Plásticos de El Salvador\n\nThe Asociación de Artistas Plásticos de El Salvador (ADAPES) is a prominent arts association in El Salvador. ADAPES was founded in 1980 by a group of recognized Salvadoran artists. The group's fundamental objective was initially the promotion of plastic arts in El Salvador. Since then, and with the collaboration of private and public institutions, ADAPES has branched out into promoting painting, sculpture and related visual arts in El Salvador.\n\nNotable ADAPES members include Marco Valencia, Francisco Zayas, Licry Bicard, Marielos Imery, Romeo Galdamez,Mayra Barraza, Fredis Monge, Hugo Martinez, Carlos Cartagena, Salvador Llort, Mauricio Castillo, Mauricio Linares Aguilar, Evelyn Quinteros, Amber Rose, Tessie Scharaga, Dagoberto Nolasco, Ivan Bran, Armando Solis, Giovanni Gil, Victor Cartagena, Elisa Archer, Alberto Merino, Marta Eugenia Valle, Ricardo Portillo, Flor Nuila, Antonio Lara, Maria Kahn, Gilberto Arriaza\n\n"}
{"id": "5740294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5740294", "title": "Azlan McLennan", "text": "Azlan McLennan\n\nAzlan McLennan (born 1975 in the United States) is a visual artist and socialist activist based in Melbourne, Australia. He is a graduate of the Victorian College of the Arts. His art is known for its political content and has been the subject of considerable debate and media attention in Australia.\n\nConceptually, McLennan's work tends to be unambiguous and antagonistic from a left-wing perspective, loosely following the traditions of agitprop, anti-art and Institutional Critique, incorporating elements of détournement, readymade or installation. His works have often been characterised as controversial by conservative politicians, journalists and art critics, usually portraying the artist in a negative light. Alternatively, various liberal lawyers, academics and activists have defended his works, usually on the basis of free speech, due to the offence sometimes caused by his art for its often overt left-leaning bias. The artist has expressed public criticisms over Zionism, the War on Terror, Australian nationalism and racism, the mandatory detention of asylum seekers, various political figures and the managerial class of the art world.\n\nMcLennan has cited the artists John Heartfield and Leon Kuhn as influences. He has work in collections of the National Gallery of Australia and the National Library of Australia.\n\nMcLennan is a member of the Trotskyist organisation Socialist Alternative. Previously, he has been associated with the Socialist Alliance, the Stop the War Coalition, Students for Palestine, the Refugee Action Collective, the University of Melbourne Graduate Student Association, the Victorian College of the Arts Student Union and the United Voice trade union. He regularly produces posters for the Australian far left's various political demonstrations and meetings. He has written articles for the publications of both Socialist Alternative and the Socialist Alliance.\n\nIn August 2003, McLennan hired a Group 4 Securicor guard to keep gallery punters out of an exhibition opening at the VCA. Group 4 run immigration detention centres in Australia, such as Baxter Detention Centre and the now closed Woomera Detention Centre. The security guard was reportedly humiliated due to the incident which occurred at a time of high criticism of the John Howard government's treatment of asylum seekers.\n\nIn May 2004, McLennan produced \"Fifty-six,\" an exhibition designed to coincide with Nakba Day, the title drawing on the number of years since the establishment of Israel. The public exhibition in the shop front window space of 24seven Gallery on one of Melbourne CBD's busy streets, was censored by the City of Melbourne days after it was installed. The installation consisted of a large wall painting of an Israeli flag, with \"debatable\" statistics on the gallery's window about Israel's treatment of Palestinians. The scandal made international news, many pro-Israel individuals and groups accusing McLennan of antisemitism. This put a number of Victorian political figures such as former Premier Steve Bracks, Lord Mayor John So and former City of Melbourne councillor Kimberly Kitching under pressure to respond. The use of taxpayer's money to fund the space fuelled a lot of the debate. McLennan also deeply outraged some critics by insinuating that the Nazis had a similar position on what they termed degenerate art. McLennan maintains a strong criticism of Israeli policies.\n\nIn August 2004, McLennan displayed \"State Sponsored\", a collection of portraits of Hamas militants, including Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and Dr. Abdul Aziz Rantisi and the dates they were assassinated. The work was exhibited at Citylights project – a public art space in a Melbourne CBD lane way. McLennan was accused of glorifying terrorism by Ted Lapkin, a senior policy analyst of the Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council. Andrew Mac, Citylights' curator and director defended the work on the grounds of diversity of opinion stating the artist's use of \"state sponsored\" referred to state terrorism.\n\nIn September 2005, the City of Melbourne intervened to terminate McLennan's \"Canberra's 18\" exhibition shortly before it was scheduled to be shown at the Platform artists group's Artist-run initiative (ARI), Platform 2. The exhibition was to include images of the then 18 Islamic organisations proscribed as terrorists by the Australian Government and the basis for their formation. City of Melbourne Deputy Mayor Gary Singer claimed the proper guidelines were not followed. Human rights campaigner and barrister Julian Burnside claimed the censorship was about governments testing how much Australians would tolerate such occurrences. McLennan accused City of Melbourne of political censorship and appeasing Zionists. Singer's areas of special interests ironically include civil liberties.\n\nMonash University Art and Design Faculty in Melbourne withdrew McLennan's video \"Mind the Gap\" in October 2005, ironically made for the same exhibition Monash had agreed to show the censored \"Canberra's 18\" work. The video contained graphic footage of the beheading of British contractor Kenneth Bigley by Tawhid and Jihad in 2004. The video criticised former British Prime Minister Tony Blair for his role in the Iraq war. The censorship is likely to have been motivated by the Australian Anti-Terrorism Bill 2005, particularly the controversial return to the crime of sedition introduced by the Howard government some weeks later and passed into law the following month; a move highly unpopular amongst the arts sector.\n\nCity of Melbourne and acting Transport Minister Bob Cameron censored \"Pay Your Way\" in January 2006 while McLennan was in residency in Indonesia. The posters – part of the Urbanart ARI program – were displayed in public tram shelters and pulled down only hours later due to complaints. The works featured images of Jean Charles de Menezes, a Brazilian man shot dead by London police and accused Muslim terrorist, Jack Thomas. The works were characterised as racist and Islamophobic, yet McLennan claimed the works were satirising the post 9-11 racism and Islamophobia perpetuated by pro-US governments. McLennan is also a Muslim himself. Thomas' lawyer, Rob Stary attacked the work for jeopardising the trial yet weeks later would defend McLennan publicly against the Footscray police.\n\nOnly weeks after the \"Pay Your Way\" affair, McLennan's \"Proudly UnAustralian\" was removed by the Victoria Police in Melbourne. The exhibition – featuring a burnt Australian flag – took place at Trocadero Art Space who rents a public billboard to exhibiting artists. It was to coincide with the 2006 Australia Day in January. The work was removed some days prior this date and McLennan arrived back in Australia days later to a media furore. The scandal had been criticised as offensive by those such as Federal Liberal Party MP Bronwyn Bishop who attempted to introduce a ban on flag burning, and the national president of the Returned and Services League. Free speech advocates such as the National Association for the Visual Arts and criminal defence lawyer Rob Stary denounced the police's actions as an attack on civil rights. This took place only a few short months after the 2005 Cronulla riots and fuelled the broader debate about racism in Australia.\n\nMcLennan wrote an article in 2006 criticising the Artistic Director of the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art (ACCA), Juliana Engberg over her reaction to artist and VCA student, Ash Keating and his appropriation of ACCA's waste disposal for the use of his art. The Engberg/Keating scandal became widely known amongst Melbourne art circles from the ACCA exhibition opening where it took place and later through the independent electronic magazine Crikey. McLennan's polemic further fuelled debate over Engberg's credentials.\n\nMcLennan featured in \"Rules of Engagement\" at Melbourne ARI West Space in May 2007, which dealt with \"relationships, power and exchange within the art system\" according to the show's curator Mark Feary. McLennan's contribution, \"Art in a Capitalist Society\" depicted an authoritative picture of leading private Australian gallerist Anna Schwartz, linked to a quote about exploitation from the Karl Marx treatise \"Das Kapital\". Schwartz has previously criticised McLennan and some have accused McLennan of taking revenge.\n\nIn a July 2009, \"Farrago\" interview, McLennan attacked the University of Melbourne over the merger with the Victorian College of the Arts, the Melbourne Model, the liquidation of the VCA Student Union and likened the Vice-chancellor, Glyn Davis' perceived political censorship to Adolf Hitler's use of Fascist Art and Joseph Stalin's use of Socialist Realism. He also depicted Davis and the Provost, Peter McPhee, as Sex Pistols musicians, Johnny Rotten and Sid Vicious in a parody of the Never Mind the Bollocks album cover as well as depicting Davis as the violent psychopath, Alex DeLarge in Stanley Kubrick's film adaptation of A Clockwork Orange. McLennan had previously attacked Davis and the university administration as the former General Secretary of the VCA Student Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "26144008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26144008", "title": "British Marine Art (Romantic Era)", "text": "British Marine Art (Romantic Era)\n\nMarine art was especially popular in Britain during the Romantic Era, and taken up readily by British artists in part because of England's geographical form (an island). This article deals with marine art as a specialized genre practised by artists who did little or nothing else, and does not cover the marine works of the leading painters of the period, such as, and above all, J.M.W. Turner. The tradition of British marine art as a specialized genre with a strong emphasis on the shipping depicted began in large part with the artists Willem Van de Velde the Elder and his son, called the Younger in the early 18th century. The Van Veldes, originally from Holland, moved to England to work for King Charles II). By the 17th century, marine art was commissioned mostly by merchant seamen and naval officers and created by marine art specialists (rather than artists in general). In part, marine art served as a visual portrayal of Britain's power on the sea and as a way of historically documenting battles and the like. As British sea captains began to recognize the ability of marine artists to bring Britain's success on the sea to the public on land, some took on an active role in supporting this type of artwork. For example, marine artist Robert Cleveley was hired by Captain William Locker to work in as a clerk, and Captain Locker, interested in employing artists, is believed to have played a significant role in encouraging Cleveley to work as a marine painter. Captains would act as marine artists' patrons, commissioning them to paint portraits of themselves and pictures depicting important battles. A few significant marine artists who were supported in this way by naval officers are (among others) Nicholas Pocock, Thomas Luny, and George Chambers. William Hodges, for example, who was trained to draw at William Shipley's Academy (studying under Richard Wilson), was hired by the Admiralty to finish his pictures from Cook's 1772 voyage for publication upon reaching home in 1775. Captains also commissioned artists to paint portraits of their ships.\n\nThe tradition of marine painting really began in Holland in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, perhaps because of the significance of seafaring in establishing and maintaining the Dutch Republic. Marine painting began in keeping with medieval Christian art tradition, and so the original paintings portrayed the sea only from a bird’s eye view, and everything, even the waves, were organized and symmetrical. The viewpoint, symmetry, and overall order of these early paintings were to keep in mind the organization of the heavenly cosmos from which the earth was viewed. Later Dutch artists like Hendrick Vroom and Cornelius Claesz, however, developed new methods for painting, often from a horizontal point of view, with a lower horizon and more focus on realism than symmetry. Most notable of the Dutch artists’ who influenced the British marine art tradition were Willem van de Velde the Elder, and his son, the Younger. Willem van de Velde the Younger was especially admired and thus influential in England because he lived and worked there for thirty-five years. The methods developed by the Dutch to successfully depict some of the sea’s more elusive features (light and shadow, or the reflection of the sky over the ocean’s uneven surface, for example) were adopted by British artists as they founded their own marine art tradition. Knowledge of Dutch methods of marine painting was considered so fundamental to a successful marine painting education that it was likened to “grammar school” for the British marine artist. In fact, it is not uncommon to find Dutch ships painted into the works of British marine artists as a tribute to the Dutch artists from whom they gained so much knowledge and inspiration.\n\nIn the Romantic era, interest in marine art expanded from its initial exclusive audience of sailors and naval officers to the general public. One reason for this increased interest may be the significance of the navy in Romantic British culture. With the increase of industry in Britain and the threatening resurgence of the French royal navy during the time after the Peace of Utrecht, England found means and motivation to improve its sea power on both the level of mercantilism and conquest. Later into the Romantic era the Napoleonic Wars, which were fought in large part on the sea, brought the British navy further to the forefront when the British navy played a significant role in defeated the French forces. The infamous Glorious First of June which marks a major British naval victory over the French during the French Revolutionary Wars, happened within the Romantic era (June 1, 1794) as did the Battle of Trafalgar of the Napoleonic Wars (October 21, 1805). For a contemporary depiction of the British navy during the Romantic era one might look to the popular fictional series by Patrick O'Brian which follows naval officer Captain Aubrey and his companion Maturin during the Napoleonic Wars or the Hornblower Saga by C.S. Forester which follows Horatio Hornblower as his career in the British navy progresses (also during the Napoleonic Wars). Whatever the reason, a new group of marine artists now made their way onto the scene. Landscape painters found inspiration in the sea and began to create work which was not always accurate, but which could be sold among the less technically sea-savvy art collectors in England.\n\nBritish marine paintings from this era can be divided into three main categories. These are: ship portraits, paintings of ships at sea, and inshore, coastal and harbour scenes.\n\nSince marine artists in the Romantic era varied in technical knowledge (as noted earlier), there seems to have been a certain amount of debate about how an artist should balance aesthetic/artistic qualities with accuracy in their pictures. This stands in contrast to earlier marine painting (most often in the form of ship portraits for seamen and officers), which was judged solely by accuracy and not valued for artistic quality. The knowledge required for accuracy wasn't necessarily easy to come by. The standards outlined in the \"Liber Nauticus\" by Dominic and John Thomas Serres makes clear the level of expertise some expected in marine art. In this instruction manual on how to create marine art, the Serreses' declared: \"many are the obstacles to the attainment of a proficiency in drawing Marine subjects, particularly as it is not only requisite that a person desirous of excelling in the Art should possess a knowledge of the construction of a ship, or of what is denominated Naval Architecture together with the proportion of masts & yards, the width & cut of the sails, &c; but he should likewise be acquainted with Seamanship\". A certain expectation of accuracy is also expressed in a review of two different paintings depicting the Glorious First of June (one—more dramatic/fantastical—by Philip de Loutherbourg and the other by Robert Cleveley, who had long worked as a sailor and whose painting is quite a bit more tame if not as artistically skillful) by Anthony Pasquin (John Williams). Pasquin wrote:\n\nMr. Loutherbourg's picture on this popular subject is too licentious in the points of historic fact to please any nautical observer. Mr. Cleveley's performance did not impress me, instantaneously, with so much pleasure as Mr. Loutherbourg's; but it had this very desirable effect, that my satisfaction was strengthened in proportion as I viewed it. It is evident that this Artist has a far deeper knowledge of his subject than his compeer, and has not violated authenticity upon any material point: he has not painted to amaze but to satisfy: he has grouped both his pictures with an admirable taste; all the minutiae of the marine are vigorously preserved, and the effect of his atmosphere at morning and evening is strictly compatible with truth and harmony.\n\nPaintings commissioned by senior naval officers and displayed in the Royal Academy (as were many marine paintings) were not necessarily accessible to the larger British population. However, this does not mean that marine art was confined to the upper classes. Some marine artists and engravers made etchings and aquatints of the pictures bought by art collectors and such, and these copies could be sold to the general public at more affordable prices. Working as a print dealer rarely generated a livable income for artists, but a few found success. Thomas and William Daniell, for example, had a reasonable amount of success selling aquatints to the public and to book publishers.\n\nVarious English artists influenced the tradition of American marine art, most notably Thomas Butterworth, whose battles of naval depictions during the War of 1812 became very popular among American art collectors. Although Butterworth may have never actually gone there, his work reached America thanks to aquatints of his works done by the English engraver Joseph Jeakes. So, just as aquatints made British marine art accessible to the general British population, they made British marine art accessible to the American population across the Atlantic. Another British influence on American marine art was Robert Salmon, who began his career in England in 1800, but ended up moving to America and bringing along with him a British \"topographical style\" which the younger artists then in New England.\n\nThere are far too many talented British marine artists from the Romantic Era to name them all here, but a few are William Anderson, Robert Cleveley, Thomas Luny, George Chambers, Nicholas Pocock, William Hodges, and Philip de Loutherbourg among many others.\n\n\nSeaport Museum, 1982. Print.\n\n1974. Print.\n\n1924. Print.\n\nUniversity Press, 2003. Print.\n\nUniversity Press, 2007. Print.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856115", "title": "Buxton Opera House", "text": "Buxton Opera House\n\nBuxton Opera House is in The Square, Buxton, Derbyshire, England. It is a 902-seat opera house that hosts the annual Buxton Festival and, from 1994 to 2013, the International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, among others, as well as pantomime at Christmas, musicals and other entertainments year-round. Hosting live performances until 1927, the theatre then was used mostly as a cinema until 1976. In 1979, it was refurbished and reopened as a venue for live performance.\n\nIt was built in 1903 and designed by Frank Matcham, one of Britain's finest theatre architects. He also designed a number of famous London theatres, including the London Palladium (1910) and the London Coliseum (1904). \n\nThe Opera House ran as a successful theatre, receiving touring companies until 1927, when it was turned into a cinema. Silent films were shown until 1932 when the theatre was wired for sound and could present ‘talkies’. The Opera House also became the venue for an annual summer theatre festival from 1936 to 1942, two of them in conjunction with Lillian Bayliss and her London-based Old Vic company. After the Second World War, the theatre continued to serve primarily as a cinema, although the Literary and Dramatic Societies of local schools Buxton College and Cavendish Grammar School staged annual performances of either Shakespeare, such as \"Hamlet\" (1966), \"Coriolanus\" (1968) and \"Macbeth\" (1970), or modern works, such as Bertold Brecht's \"Life of Galileo\" (1967) and Dylan Thomas's \"The Doctor & the Devils\" (1969).\n\nIn 2014, the opera house's former finance chief was jailed for two years for stealing nearly £250,000 from the opera house accounts in 2012 and 2013.\n\nThe Opera House gradually fell into disrepair. In 1976, it was closed and rumours circulated that it would never reopen. In 1979, however, it was restored and an orchestra pit was added to the original Frank Matcham design. Since then, the Opera House has been a full-time venue for stage productions, presenting approximately 450 performances per year, including opera, dance, musical theatre, pantomime, comedy, drama, children's shows and concerts. The theatre is staffed by a small full-time technical crew for all the backstage work, setting up all the shows and artists that appear. Volunteers from the local community are also employed for front-of-house duties including bar work and as ushers.\n\nBy the 1990s, more work was needed to repair and modernise the theatre, and from 1999 to 2001 an extensive programme of internal and external restoration took place. In February 2007, another refurbishment was completed at the Opera House that saw the installation of air conditioning in the gallery and backstage area, new seats in the gallery and upper circle, a new get-in lift to replace the ramp and new backstage working lights as well as re-wiring and painting the backstage area and dressing rooms. The current capacity is 902 seats.\n\nIn 2011, \"FT Magazine\" featured an article on opera house design. In the section called \"My favourite experiences\", the writer praised the European opera houses \"designed by the Viennese architectural firm of Fellner and Helmer (the Zurich Opera House is [an] example) ... [which] represent a near-ideal marriage of size, acoustic and decorative beauty. Their British equivalents are those designed by Frank Matcham – best of all the Buxton Opera House.\"\n\nThe theatre complex also includes the adjacent Pavilion Gardens, the 369-seat Pavilion Arts Centre (rebuilt in 2010; formerly the Paxton Theatre), and the Octagon Hall auditorium (built in 1875), as well as a two-storey restaurant with a bar and gift shop. The arts centre stage area can be converted into a separate 93-seat studio theatre.\n\nSince July 1979, the Opera House and theatre complex has been home to the Buxton Festival, which runs for about two weeks in mid-July and has developed into one of Britain's largest opera-based festivals. Typically, it includes a Handel opera (with conductors such as Harry Christophers) and other rarely seen operas as well as more popular classics. Running alongside it is the Buxton Festival Fringe. It is popular as a warm-up for the Edinburgh Fringe, and it now claims to be the largest 'true' fringe festival in the UK. From 1994 to 2013, the Opera House also hosted the annual three-week-long International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, attracting audiences from all over the UK and from abroad.\n\nThe Opera House presents over 400 performances each year. Since 2004, the Opera House and the neighbouring Pavilion Gardens have hosted the annual Four Four Time music festival which sees a wide variety of musical performances over one week in February. Performers for the 2008 festival included Marc Almond, Richard Hawley, The Stranglers and Boy George.\n\n"}
{"id": "3453723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453723", "title": "Came glasswork", "text": "Came glasswork\n\nCame glasswork is the process of joining cut pieces of art glass through the use of came strips or foil into picturesque designs in a framework of soldered metal.\n\nFinal products include a wide range of glasswork, including stained glass and lead light pieces. Came is made of different metals, such as lead, zinc, brass and copper. The metal came selected generally depends upon the size, complexity and weight of the project. As an alternative to came, copper foil may be used, for small, intricate pieces.\n\nCame glasswork includes assembling pieces of cut and possibly painted glass using came sections. The joints where the came meet are soldered to bind the sections. When all of the glass pieces have been put within came and a border put around the entire work, pieces are cemented and supported as needed. The work may be made waterproof by forcing a soft oily cement or mastic between the glass and the cames. A form of embellishment and gilding, such as Angel gilding and Eglomise, may be added to finish the piece.\n\nWorks may need to be reinforced, like large pieces or ones that will be exposed to the outdoor elements. Support can be provided as the piece is made through the use of reinforced and metal-covered lead came, the use of steel strips in the came channels, or use of rigid cames, such as copper, brass or zinc. Bars of steel or steel rebar may be attached to the back of finished works as reinforcement.\n\nTheophilus Presbyter, the first to write about joining art glass using the came technique in the book \"De Divers Artibus\". Theophilus was a Benedictine Monk who was a glass and pigment worker who practiced in the late 11th and early 12th centuries.\n\nMaterials to complete a glasswork project may include the pattern, cut glass, came, wood trim, solder, cement. Additional supplies include newspaper, cutter oil, a plywood board, masking tape, flux, and whiting.\n\nLead came is often supplied in lengths of 2 m and in widths of differing sizes. It also comes in flat or domed profiles.\n\nBrass and copper have been used to bring a copper or golden hue to the works. Generally, though, they were used only for windows between about 1890 and 1920. Both metals were often alternatives to zinc for Frank Lloyd Wright designed windows.\n\nBrass-capped lead is another type of came used for glasswork projects.\n\nThe traditional method of creating \"camework glass\" uses lead came, which ages into a dark blue-gray patina. In comparison to other came metal strips, like brass, copper and zinc, lead is softer and more flexible, making it easier to cut and bend. It's also inexpensive and durable. A downside is that the finished projects may be prone to sagging due to lead's softness. This can be mitigated somewhat by stretching the lead to make it more rigid before it is used. Special precautions should be taken when working with this metal came to avoid to lead contamination.\n\nThe lead came windows of the medieval churches are sturdier than those of the 19th century and much of the 20th century. The composition of lead came changed over time, at first by removing other metals to make a \"pure lead\" and then again during war years when lead was needed for ammunition. Since the 1970s a new form of lead, restoration lead, was developed based upon medieval lead's metal composition. Restoration lead is stronger than lead came of the prior 100 years or so.\n\nWater tightness is achieved by brushing cement under the flanges of the leads to both faces prior to installation or by applying putty afterwards. Typically the cement consisted of linseed oil, whiting, lamp black and white spirit.\n\nZinc makes a lightweight, strong and rigid came, which lends itself to glasswork projects that don't have many curved lines, are large, or have a number of straight lines that require greater support than lead would afford. Zinc accepts finishes, such as black and copper. Because of its strength, zinc is often used for border cames, which are U-channel cames for the outside edges.\n\nFrank Lloyd Wright used zinc came for his stained glass windows. Beveled glass work is generally done in zinc came, primarily because of its ability to manage the weight of heavy plate glass; whereas beveled glass works made of lead came are much more likely to buckle or sag over time.\n\nCopper foil is an easy, versatile alternative to came and is particularly useful for small projects. Using copper foil, the edges of the glass pieces are wrapped with adhesive copper tape and soldered together along the adjacent copper strips. The copper foil technique (commonly called \"Tiffany\" stained glass, even though there is a debate about whether John La Farge or Louis Comfort Tiffany originated it) was invented in the 19th century, enabling creation of three-dimensional works, in addition to two-dimensional ones to which the lead came method is limited. A patent for the method of \"Joining Glass Mosaics\" was issued to Sanford Bray in 1886. This new method of joining pieces of stained glass used copper/copper foil instead of lead sashes. By using copper foil, one could now make cylinders, cones, and globe-shaped shades or many other irregular forms.\n\nTools to complete a glasswork project can include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21209045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21209045", "title": "Catalyst Arts", "text": "Catalyst Arts\n\nCatalyst Arts a non-profit artist led organisation based in Belfast city centre.\n\nCatalyst Arts was formed in 1993 in response to what was seen as a cultural vacuum. In accordance with its constitution it is run by unpaid volunteers, and seeks to adopt a poly-vocal strategy towards the promotion of contemporary art practices by large selection of artists and projects from the widest possible range of disciplines\n\nCatalyst has strong links with the University of Ulster. Catalyst Arts has shown works of David Shrigley, Ross Sinclair, Susan Phillipz, Phil Collins, Michelle D Hannah, Roddy Buchanan, Simon Starling, Bill Drummond to name a few, and has turned the gallery into a sauna with Joanna Karolini.\nCatalyst Arts was envisioned as an agency that would act as a 'catalyst' cajoling, supporting and promoting culturally engaged artistic endeavours on a local, national and international basis\n\nCatalyst Arts was founded on a constitution that provides a structure in which power flows from the roots of its membership to the committee of directors. Catalyst Arts boasts an archive of over 2000 unique documents of Northern Irish art history, which it is currently preparing to make publicly accessible. Catalyst Arts has also organised projects internationally.\n\nArtist-run initiative\n"}
{"id": "5912202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5912202", "title": "Clach Biorach", "text": "Clach Biorach\n\nThe Clach Biorach (in English, \"Sharp Stone\") is a three-metre Standing Stone located north-west of the village of Edderton in Easter Ross. It dates to the Bronze Age, but two Pictish-style symbols were later engraved on the north side, making it a Class I Pictish symbol stone. The symbols are a 1) double-disc with a z-rod, and 2) a salmon above.\n\n"}
{"id": "38185749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38185749", "title": "Czech folklore", "text": "Czech folklore\n\nCzech folklore is the folk tradition which has developed among the Czech people over a number of centuries. Czech folklore was influenced by a mix of Christian and pagan customs. Nowadays it is preserved and kept alive by various folklore ensembles uniting members of all ages, from children to seniors, showing their talent during competitions, folklore festivals or other performances. \n\nThe Czech Republic is divided into a number of ethnographic regions. Each of them has special folklore traditions, songs or costumes and specializes in different crafts. As a result, Czech folklore provides a diverse source of entertainment.\n\nMusic played an important part in life of common people or peasants in the Czech Republic. It offered both means of expression and a vent for their emotions. Resulting music varies not only by the region of its origin but also in the purpose of its use. Therefore, there are myriads of distinct folk songs.\nMusic often addressed everyday issues and was passed down orally. From the 19th century onward it was recorded by etnographs. Traditional celebrations such as welcome of the spring, successful harvest are still among the occasions traditionally celebrated with songs. More lively themes were used specifically during celebrations, weddings or feasts. Funerals and mournful occasions also had their own set of songs and tunes. \n\nSongs and especially dances were often linked to conscription of Czech young men to the Army; they are called “verbuňk” in some regions. Conscriptions usually happened during wartimes and these songs have a particular place in Czech folklore music. They are listed by UNESCO in the List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nThere are a number of instruments associated with Czech folk music, which add to its distinct sound – violin and the double bass; instruments specific to Bohemia and Moravia such as bagpipes (bock), shepherd’s pipe, dulcimer and trumpet. \n\nAll of them are still in active use by the folklore groups during their shows.\n\nPolka dance originated in Bohemia and still remains an integral part of folklore traditions especially in the western part of the country. Since the 19th century this dance has spread from Bohemia to many neighbouring European countries as well as overseas.\n\nIn the past, emphasis was placed on changes connected to the four seasons of the year; every season had its own specific traditions. In the spring, people practiced customs which would ensure health of their crops and future successful harvest. In the winter, it was most important to protect households and villagers against adverse effects of cold weather and supernatural forces. \n\nMany Czech regions still hold traditional celebrations, which also revel in folklore music, dance and costumes. Among the most typical is Drowning of Morana, Shrovetide, erecting the maypole, grape harvest or celebration of Easter. \n\n\nFolklore is not merely about music. Czech folklore is characteristic for elaborate traditional costumes distinctive to each region or even village.\n\nSpecific aspects such as colors, embroidery, themes and fragments of traditional costumes varied on the basis of social, geographical and symbolical factors as well as according to the purpose of their use. Costumes worn on special occasions were usually lavishly decorated, colorful and accompanied with a wide range of accessories (scarves, ribbons, headdresses, hats, belts, etc.) while everyday clothes tended to be rather simple and practical. Every region had a set of amusing peculiarities. For example:\n\n\nTraditional costumes are no longer commonly worn in most parts of the Czech Republic. They may be used during traditional celebrations or festivals when worn by members of folklore ensembles. In some families, costumes are handed down from generation to generation as they wish to preserve the tradition. Likewise, many stay protected in museums and private collections.\n\nMultiple folklore shows and festivals are organized in the Czech Republic throughout the year. They are a display of rich Czech traditions and folklore. At the festivals, various folklore groups demonstrate the heritage of their country. The performers are presented in traditional costumes particular to different regions of the Czech Republic. They perform folk dances, traditional folk songs and play musical instruments. Many festivals are not only demonstrations of music and dances, but also show traditional cuisine and crafts.\n\nThere are many folklore festivals in the Czech Republic.\n\nCzech Republic is abundant in folklore groups of all kinds. Their goal is to preserve local traditions and folklore and to pass the heritage on to the following generations. Members of the folklore groups are enthusiasts of all ages: from little children through adolescents to adults. They all enjoy building up folklore spirit with dances, music and showing off beautiful folklore dresses, as well as performing in front of audiences at folklore festivals. Children are encouraged to participate in folklore ensembles from a very early age.\n\nTraditional arts and crafts are an inseparable part of Czech folklore. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "78902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78902", "title": "Epode", "text": "Epode\n\nEpode, in verse, is the third part of an ode, which followed the strophe and the antistrophe, and completed the movement.\n\nAt a certain point in time the choirs, which had previously chanted to right of the altar or stage, and then to left of it, combined and sang in unison, or permitted the \"coryphaeus\" to sing for them all, while standing in the centre. With the appearance of Stesichorus and the evolution of choral lyric, a learned and artificial kind of poetry began to be cultivated in Greece, and a new form, the epode-song, came into existence. It consisted of a verse of iambic trimeter, followed by a verse of iambic dimeter, and it is reported that, although the epode was carried to its highest perfection by Stesichorus, an earlier poet, Archilochus, was really the inventor of this form.\n\nThe epode soon took a firm place in choral poetry, which it lost when that branch of literature declined. But it extended beyond the ode, and in the early dramatists we find numerous examples of monologues and dialogues framed on the epodical system. In Latin poetry the epode was cultivated, in conscious archaism, both as a part of the ode and as an independent branch of poetry. Of the former class, the epithalamia of Catullus, founded on an imitation of Pindar, present us with examples of strophe, antistrophe and epode; and it has been observed that the celebrated ode of Horace, beginning \"Quem virum aut heroa lyra vel acri\", possesses this triple character.\n\nThe word is now mainly familiar from an experiment of Horace in the second class, for he entitled his fifth book of odes \"Epodon liber\" or the \"Book of Epodes\". He says in the course of these poems, that in composing them he was introducing a new form, at least in Latin literature, and that he was imitating the effect of the iambic distichs invented by Archilochus. Accordingly, we find the first ten of these epodes composed in alternate verses of iambic trimeter and iambic dimeter, as at, for example, \"Epode\" 5.1–2:\n\nIn the seven remaining epodes Horace diversified the measures, while retaining the general character of the distich. This group of poems belongs mostly to the early youth of the poet, and displays a truculence and a controversial heat which are absent from his more mature writings. As he was imitating Archilochus in form, he believed himself justified, no doubt, in repeating the sarcastic violence of his fierce model. The curious thing is that these particular poems of Horace, which are really short lyrical satires, have appropriated almost exclusively the name of epodes, although they bear little enough resemblance to the epode of early Greek literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "20375819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20375819", "title": "Foundation for Art and Creative Technology", "text": "Foundation for Art and Creative Technology\n\nFACT (Foundation for Art & Creative Technology) is a new media arts centre based on \"Wood Street\" in Liverpool, England. FACT hosts art projects and exhibitions as well as being a cinema.\n\nFACT was Liverpool's first purpose-built arts centre for more than 60 years. It was opened in February 2003 by its founding executive director Eddie Berg, having cost £10 million to build. The building is linked to Bold Street, one of Liverpool's main shopping areas, by a public square off Wood Street and Colquitt Street.\n\nThe cinema hosted a Question and Answer session with Quentin Tarantino in 2007 for the UK release of \"Death Proof.\" In 2015 FACT hosted an art event in which Shia LaBeouf answered phone calls from the public.\nOn March 22, 2017, FACT became the location of LaBeouf, Rönkkö & Turner's He Will Not Divide Us project.\n\nDesigned by architectural firm , the building is situated on \"Wood Street\" in the Ropewalks area of the city centre. It contains three gallery spaces, four cinema screens and a multimedia suite and also comprises a cafe, a bar and a lounge area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19137627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19137627", "title": "Heller Theatre", "text": "Heller Theatre\n\nThe Heller Theatre in Tulsa, Oklahoma is the largest community theatre in Oklahoma. It was founded in October 1981 by Ken Spence with the partnership of Theatre Tulsa and has since produced more than one hundred shows including two dozen world premiers. The theater is currently directed by Julie Tattershall operated by the Tulsa Parks and Recreation Department.\n\nThe theater was named the Oklahoma Community Theatre Association (OCTA) Theater of the Year in 2005. The Great Plains debut of Yasmina Reza's “The Unexpected Man,\" translated by Christopher Hampton, received high honors from (OCTA) in 2007. Two of the Heller's most recent shows were named \"Top Ten\" performances of the Year by the \"Tulsa World\".\n\nThe theater is also home to Oklahoma's oldest comedy troupe, The Laughing Matter Improv, founded in 1993, and Round the Bend Players, one of the nation's leading senior theaters. Its current directors are Rita Boyle and Sherry Zyskowski. Round the Bend's production of Jacob Appel's \"The Three Belles of Eden\" was a critic's pick in the \"Tulsa World\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40676037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40676037", "title": "How Old Are You? (film)", "text": "How Old Are You? (film)\n\nHow Old Are You is a 2014 Malayalam movie directed by Rosshan Andrrews, written by Bobby Sanjay and produced by Listin Stephen under the banner of Magic Frames. It stars Manju Warrier, Kunchako Boban, Kanika, Lalu Alex and Amritha Anil. Manju Warrier plays the character of Nirupama Rajeev, a UD clerk in Revenue department. She was acting in a film after a 14-year sabbatical. The film released on 17 May 2014. It received positive reviews from critics and was a big hit of the year. The film was remade in Tamil as \"36 Vayadhinile\" with Jyothika in the lead, making her comeback.\n\nThe story is centered on a 36-year-old character named Nirupama Rajeev (Manju Warrier) who works as a UD clerk in the Revenue Department. Her husband is Rajeev Narayanan (Kunchako Boban) who works at Akashavaani and aspires of migrating to Ireland, but Nirupama can't accompany him as most Irish companies turn down her job applications. There is nothing interesting about her life; she leads a normal life but craves for a change.\n\nOne fine day, she gets an invitation from the President and gets summoned to the IG's office and learns that the President of India would like to have a conversation with her, after a question which her daughter posed to the President who came to the school. Unfortunately, Nirupama faints in-front of the President and the meeting turns out to be a disaster. Post this, she becomes the laughing stock on Facebook. Nirupama is then faced with an issue of being criticized by her family members. Later Nirupama gets in a situation where she has to watch her husband and daughter fly to Ireland.\n\nSusan David (Kanika), her old classmate, a successful business woman, reminds her of the woman she used to be and inspires her to rediscover her younger self. Nirupama then explains her situation, when she met the president, to the social medias and clears her name. Her inability to rise up to her daughter's expectations and the discomfiture of her husband being mistaken for her younger brother further troubles her. Nirupama had a habit of having a vegetable garden on her roof, without the usage of chemicals or pesticides. One day Nirupama visits an old woman whom she would meet everyday on her bus. Both of them don't even know their names, and when she gets to know that the woman is sick, Nirupama turns up at her house with her own vegetable. The old woman thanks her for the time she spent for her and for reminding that she is not alone in this world. News of her pure vegetables spreads via the neighbor of the sick woman. In between, Nirupama's daughter calls her to Ireland, but she hesitates as she has lots of work left to be done. Her vegetables are asked for a wedding. For this Nirupama encourages all her neighbors to cultivate vegetables on their rooftops as well, which turns out to be a huge success. Her friend Susuan david encourages her into a seminar with important people as audience. Her topic of biofarming influenced all the officials and gives her the job of making it a reality. Once again the President meets her and family.\n\nThe meeting turned out to be a successful one. The transformation of her character from a depressed woman to a steady and sprightly lady is almost predictable. 'How old are you' leaves behind a sharp note to its audience. Near the end of the story, Nirupama reminds her husband to expect only what is given to her.\n\n\nSify's reviewer rated the film as \"watchable\" and wrote, \"Just like the 2012 Bollywood film \"English Vinglish\" that marked the return of Sridevi, director Rosshan Andrrews’s How Old Are You brings back the terrific Manju Warrier, who stayed away from the movies for 14 years.\" Veeyen of Nowrunning.com stated that \"Roshan Andrews in his film 'How Old Are You' takes us along on a woman's quest to unearth her long buried identity. Armed with a bravura performance by Manju Warrier, this superbly acted and emotionally engaging drama is a keeper of a film, and quite an impressive one at that.\" Sharika C of \"The Hindu\" said, \"A must-watch, the film is also her [Manju Warrier's] way of making a statement – that age does not matter and you are never too old to chase your dreams. Ab ki baar, Manju Warrier!\" She cited the film as \"one of those rare films that will bring crowds to the theatre just to watch a middle-aged female protagonist perform\" and named it as one of Kunchacko Boban's best performances. Paresh C Palicha of Rediff.com rated the film 3/5 and said, \"How Old Are You is a good watch not just because it is the comeback film of Manju Warrier, but also because it has got a good story to tell.\" Metromatinee.com called the film \"Light hearted yet weighty.\"\n\n\"How Old Are You?\" is being remade into several Indian languages.\nThe film's soundtrack contains 8 songs, all composed by Gopi Sundar and Carnival Band. Lyrics by Hari Narayanan, Rafeeq Ahamed.\n\nThe film collected 78,897 from UK box office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2553581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553581", "title": "Ilene Chaiken", "text": "Ilene Chaiken\n\nIlene Chaiken (born June 30, 1957) is an American television producer, director, writer, and founder of Little Chicken Productions. Chaiken is best known as being the co-creator, writer and executive producer of the television series \"The L Word\" and is currently an executive producer on the hit television series \"Empire.\"\n\nBorn to a Jewish family, Chaiken studied at the Rhode Island School of Design and graduated with an undergraduate degree in graphic design in 1979.\n\nShe began her career as an agent trainee for Creative Artists Agency, and as an executive for Aaron Spelling and Quincy Jones Entertainment. In 1988, she was the coordinating producer for the \"Fresh Prince of Bel Air\" and the associate producer for \"Satisfaction.\" She then wrote the screenplay \"Barb Wire\" (1996), and the television films \"Dirty Pictures\" (2000), and \"Damaged Care\" (2002) before the success of \"The L Word\" raised her profile. Since the \"L Word,\" she has been involved with \"Empire,\" a hit television series. She is also credited for her work in the new Hulu original, The Handmaids Tale.\n\nChaiken has been married to LouAnne Brickhouse, a former executive at Disney, since 2013. They live in the Hollywood Hills area of Laurel Canyon in Los Angeles and have nurtured more than 100 species of birds and other fauna, which they document regularly on an Instagram account. Chaiken is co-parent to twin daughters Tallulah and Augusta with her former partner, English architect Miggi Hood.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23866933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23866933", "title": "Joseph Bellomo Architects", "text": "Joseph Bellomo Architects\n\nJoseph Bellomo Architects, Inc. is an architecture office located in Palo Alto, California. Founded in 1986, the design office provides architecture, planning, interior design, and graphic design. The firm specializes in innovative and sustainable architecture that “heats itself, cools itself, powers itself, expresses itself, and protects itself.” Bellomo Architects also works on LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Projects.\n\nCurrent\n\nCompleted\n\n"}
{"id": "10681623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10681623", "title": "Kildalton Cross", "text": "Kildalton Cross\n\nThe Kildalton Cross is a monolithic high cross in Celtic cross form in the churchyard of the former parish church of Kildalton (from Scottish Gaelic \"Cill Daltain\", \"Church of the Foster Son\" (i.e. St John the Evangelist) on the island of Islay in the Inner Hebrides, Scotland. It was carved probably in the second half of the 8th century AD, and is closely related to crosses of similar date on Iona. It is often considered the finest surviving Celtic cross in Scotland, and is certainly one of the most perfect monuments of its date to survive on western Europe. The cross and the adjacent roofless medieval parish church are in the care of Historic Scotland (access at all times) and are jointly a scheduled ancient monument . A simpler cross of late medieval date stands nearby.\n\nThe Kildalton Cross features an iconic image of the Virgin and Child, which is closely related to similar Virgin and Child iconography found on St. Martin's Cross and St. Oran's Cross at Iona. In addition, this panel displays similarities with folio 7v in the Book of Kells. This type of iconography of the Virgin and Child may be related to contemporary Marian iconography in the Mediterranean, specifically the Maria Regina which was used in Rome to refute iconoclasm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34988941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34988941", "title": "Landscape with a Carriage and a Train", "text": "Landscape with a Carriage and a Train\n\nLandscape with a Carriage and a Train is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in June 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France.\n\nVan Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left an asylum at Saint-Rémy in May 1890. He made the painting in the week following his portraits of Dr. Gachet. The viewpoint from above was a favourite perspective of his since his days sketching in the dunes of Scheveningen at The Hague with the aid of a perspective frame.\n\nVan Gogh described the painting in a letter to his sister Wil:\n\nThe painting is in the collection of the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "41903683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41903683", "title": "List of books on films", "text": "List of books on films\n\nA list of books which are dedicated to \"individual\" films or film series or related critical analysis. For a list of general books about film by genre see Bibliography of film by genre, and for a lists of encyclopedias about film see .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4992416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4992416", "title": "List of opera directors", "text": "List of opera directors\n\nThis list of opera directors is a list of notable stage producers and directors who have worked, or are working, in the opera world.\n"}
{"id": "2069503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069503", "title": "List of shape-note tunebooks", "text": "List of shape-note tunebooks\n\nShape notes are a system of music notation designed to facilitate choral singing. Shape notes of various kinds have been used for over two centuries in a variety of sacred choral music traditions practiced primarily in the Southern region of the United States.\n\n\"Shape-note singers used tune books rather than hymnals. Hymnals were pocket-size books with texts only. Tune books were large oblong-shaped books with hard covers (nine inches by six inches was a typical size), often running to over four hundred pages. They included both music and text and were introduced by an extended essay on the rudiments of singing. Each song was known by the name given to its tune rather than by a title drawn from the text.\"\n\nThe following is a partial list of the shape note tunebooks published over the last two centuries. The list is divided according to the two main systems of shape notes—four-shape vs. seven-shape—and within these two categories is sorted chronologically.\n\nFor full information on shape-note tunebooks, including a list of public-domain tunebooks available online, see Shape note.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25120842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25120842", "title": "Ludic interface", "text": "Ludic interface\n\nA ludic interface is a type of computer interface. In the field of human–computer interaction (HCI), the term ludic Interfaces describes a discipline that focuses on user interfaces that are inherently \"playful\". This field of interface research and design draws on concepts introduced by Dutch historian and cultural theorist Johan Huizinga in the book Homo Ludens (\"Man the Player\" or \"Playing Man\").\nHuizinga's work is considered an important contribution to the development of game studies.\n\nThe various tools and concepts associated with ludic interface development differ from mainstream technological systems that employ human computer interfacing and interaction. Ludic interfaces tend to be more playful, are user-generated and user-driven, flexible, low-cost and cooperative. Such interfaces are often experimental and draw upon methods and knowledge from video game design, interactive media, modding cultures, media conversion, and social networking. The goal of ludic interface design is to create interfacing technology that offers ease of use and is inherently playful.\n\nAt its core, \"ludic interfaces\" is a subcategory of interfaces in general. The notion is not restricted to electronics or human–computer interaction, even if the terminology was developed in respect to digital technology. Various authors suggest to use the term \"ludic interfaces\" for non-digital phenomena, e.g. architectural facades, skins, wearable computers, media art. \"Ludic Interfaces\" is also a Masters programme development on a European level. It is the title of a European collaboration in creating a network of academic institutions and of world leading media centres to investigate, design and test publicly shared digital content. The programme development is a joint project by the University of Potsdam, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Universität für künstlerische und industrielle Gestaltung in Linz, and by the University of Salford in Greater Manchester.\n\nLudic interface design was first defined in 2002 by William Gaver, in \"Designing for Homo Ludens\", expanded in a later article in 2009.\n\nThe term was revisited in 2008 by International Symposium on Electronic Art) curators Gunalan Nadarajan and Vladimir Todorović to describe a panel section of ISEA2008 in Singapore. The term was introduced with the aim of counterbalancing the tendency of \"infantilization of play\" and stressing the \"complicities between technology and pleasure\".\n\nIn the same year a group of game artists and scholars at Leuphana University in Lueneburg started lecturing and writing about the theory of Ludic Interfaces and applied for a European grant to develop a Masters programme in Ludic Interfaces. The application was successful and the development has successfully been completed in 2013.\n\nThe notion of \"ludic interfaces\" has also historical roots in artistic practice and analysis of interfaces (cf. Christa Sommerer, Laurent Mignonneau), the notion of \"playfulness\" as a design and arts strategy, or the \"Ludic Society\" arts organisation.\n\nJess Kilby’s RFID Tarot table consists of a hand-painted black table with letters and signs drawn upon it, and a white set of cards containing radio-frequency tags. The installation is an example for a ludic set-up where the interface contributes significantly to the magic of the game. Hidden information within the blank cards allows the RFID reader, a digital tarot reader automaton, to interpret information hidden from the human eye. Kilby’s system interprets the information contained within the cards and displays videos of a frightening future. The game could certainly be implemented as a Flash simulation or be built for a 2D monitor display system, but without the materiality of the ludic interface, without the special lighting, and without the artist dressed in a fortune teller’s dress the game would not work at all. The same holds true for Mary Flanagan’s “Giant Joystick”. It is the interface with all its materiality, erotic connotations and haptic features which makes the ludic installation work so well. Ludic interfaces can also facilitate play in a musical sense. The \"postvinyl\" performance, originally commissioned by futuresonic festival Manchester in 2004 recontextualizes a computer game in a performance environment.\n\nAn introduction to the field appropriate for general audiences is a publication to be issued in summer of 2010 by furtherfield, London.\n\nNotable conferences in the field include:\n\n"}
{"id": "35303333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35303333", "title": "Marie Antoinette: The Portrait of an Average Woman", "text": "Marie Antoinette: The Portrait of an Average Woman\n\nMarie Antoinette: The Portrait of an Average Woman () is a 1932 biography of the French queen Marie Antoinette by Austrian writer Stefan Zweig.\n\nThe Viking Press published the first English-language edition, translated by Eden and Cedar Paul, in 1933. The book was the basis for the 1938 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film, \"Marie Antoinette\", starring Norma Shearer.\n\n"}
{"id": "10532503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10532503", "title": "Minnesota Dance Theatre", "text": "Minnesota Dance Theatre\n\nThe Minnesota Dance Theatre (MDT) dance company and school in Minneapolis, Minnesota was founded by Loyce Houlton in 1962 as the Contemporary Dance Playhouse. It was renamed the Minnesota Dance Theatre in 1969. Lise Houlton succeeded her mother as artistic director in 1995. Each holiday season MDT presents the ballet \"Loyce Houlton's Nutcracker Fantasy\" based on Tchaikovsky's The Nutcracker. Ballet Arts Minnesota and the company's school joined in 2006 to become The Dance Institute. The organization is based in the Cowles Center for Dance and the Performing Arts. \n\nPrince was a student at the Minnesota Dance Theatre through the Urban Arts Program of the Minneapolis Public Schools.\n\nThe mission of Minnesota Dance Theatre & the Dance Institute is to create masterful and provocative dance performances which entertain and inspire audiences, and to foster talent by providing a comprehensive classical and contemporary training curriculum focused on the technical and artistic demands of a professional dance career.\n\nMinnesota Dance Theatre offers classes for students and adults. The school has two divisions, the Young Childrens Division (YCD) and the Performing Arts Division (PAD). Both divisions have performance opportunities including Loyce Houlton's Nutcracker Fantasy and Strawberry Festival: a Student Showcase. MDT offers ballet fundamentals, beginning ballet, intermediate ballet, and advanced professional ballet classes. Making it possible for somebody at any level to take class. \n\n"}
{"id": "37271275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37271275", "title": "Momčilo Rajin", "text": "Momčilo Rajin\n\nMomčilo \"Moma\" Rajin (born February 23, 1954 in Bela Crkva) is a Serbian art and music critic, theorist and historian, artist, publisher and cultural facilitator, living and working in Belgrade.\n\nHe graduated in 1978. at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Department of History of Art, on the theme \"Rock Graphics\".\n\nBeing notable critic and theorist of culture and arts, he was also editor and/or publisher of important Yugoslav pop-culture magazines and journals: \"Džuboks\" and \"Ritam\" (pop-rock music), \"YU strip\" (comics) and \"Moment\" (contemporary arts), etc.\n\nHe is considered as one of the key people of new wave music in Yugoslavia, promoting and influencing bands like \"Idoli\", \"Električni orgazam\" and \"Šarlo Akrobata\", as well as of Serbian/Yugoslav comics, supporting early careers of Zoran Janjetov, Rajko Milošević - Gera, Zoran Tucić, Dejan Nenadov or Darko Perović.\n\nHe was member of art group \"Aux Maniere\" with Slobodan Šajin (1982-1986).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45473591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45473591", "title": "My Poland. On Recalling and Forgetting", "text": "My Poland. On Recalling and Forgetting\n\nMy Poland. On Recalling and Forgetting is the first Holocaust-themed art exhibition in Estonia, taking place at Tartu Art Museum in early 2015, seventy years after the end of World War II and the liberation of the Nazi extermination camps. The exhibition, curated by museum's director Rael Artel, received a lot of attention from Estonian society and from both Estonian and international media. It brough out the differences of opinion and initiated a public debate about the reflection of Holocaust and freedom of speech, censorship and self-censorship in art. Originally, eight contemporary artworks were exhibited, one of them by an Estonian artist and seven from Polish artists (incl. one Polish–Israeli and one American with Polish Jewish roots). Soon after the opening of the exhibition the museum limited access to two works of art because of public criticism. Later, both of them were removed from the exhibition.\n\nThe name of the exhibition \"My Poland\" emphasizes curators personal perspective to Polish contemporary art where Holocaust and the Second World War is a distinctive theme. The name refers to a popular Estonian books series (\"My Estonia\", \"My Mexico\", \"My St. Petersburg\", etc.) which also focuses on authors' personal impressions of different countries.\n\nThe works selected for the exhibition in Tartu Art Museum are made by well-known Polish artists most of whom have participated in the Venice Biennale. Curator Rael Artel has said that although she tried to find comparable works from Estonian art, the only Holocaust themed work was John Smith's painting \"Holocaust\".\n\nThe exhibition is accompanied by a publication put together by Rael Artel and designed by Mikk Heinsoo. The exhibition was supported by The Cultural Endowment of Estonia and Estonian Ministry of Culture. \"My Poland\" is curated by the director of Tartu Art Museum Rael Artel and exhibition's coordinator is Julia Polujanenkova, museums' keeper of the contemporary art.\n\n\"My Poland\" was opened on Saturday, 7 February. On Tuesday, Tartu Art Museum announced that access to two most criticized videos was being limited. Visitors could only see those videos by stating a direct request and after being introduced to curator's written explanation. Museum's director Artel made a full apology to everyone the display offended. Estonian Ministry of Culture held a discussion which was attended by Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus and the representatives of Jewish community in Estonia. After the discussion Tiidus called the videos offending and Tartu Art Museum removed them from the exhibition entirely.\n\nAs the museum was closed on Monday and Tuesday and the videos were already removed by Wednesday afternoon, the videos in question were introduced only to a small part of exhibition visitors. Therefore, majority of people who have participated in the debate have not been familiar with the content of the videos or knew them only on the basis of clips shown in the news and on the basis of written summaries.\n\nThe removal of videos has been evaluated differently. For example, journalist Kadri Veermäe from major Estonian daily Postimees interpreted it as a censorship or self-censorship. On the other hand, Kaarel Tarand, former editor-in-chief of Estonian main cultural newspaper Sirp, did not consider this as a result of censorship. Estonian artist Kiwa regarded it as the criminalization of art.\n\nAfter videos were removed, the museum decided to use that room do present the documentation about the public discussion about the exhibition on both traditional and social media, considering the themes of censure and self-censorship.\n\n\nOn the opening day, Eesti Televisioon's news program \"Aktuaalne kaamera\" asked the chairwoman of Tartu Jewish Community Ilona Smuškina to visit the exhibition My Poland. She found it to be emotionally uncomfortable: ˮI couldn't watch the video of the gas chamber for more than three seconds. But the old man who was tortured in Auschwitz, now he is tortured by the young man who did this artwork.\" Afterwards, the chairwoman of Estonian Jewish Community, Alla Jakobson, spoke out in the media. She announced that she feels insulted, she does not consider Artur Żmijewski's videos to be art at all and insists they should be removed from the exhibition: ˮIt is unacceptable and inappropriate to exhibit videos like this in a Holocaust art exhibition.\" On 10 February, a public statement to Estonian state leaders by Estonian Jewish Community was made, saying: \"It would be unthinkable to show nudity in an exhibition dedicated to Soviet deportations from Estonia. Why is Holocaust an exception justified with the artistic freedom?\" Statement made after the opening of the exhibition found supporters by many organisations, politicians and cultural figures: Estonian member of European Parliament Urmas Paet, Foreign Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser, former Minister of Regional Affairs Vallo Reimaa, Chairman of Estonian Parliament Eiki Nestor, former Minister of Culture Laine Randjärv, former Mayor of Tallinn Jüri Ratas, Estonian Islamic Congregation, Tartu City Council's Commission of Culture, art historian Krista Piirimäe, etc. Criticism directed to \"My Poland\" also escalated quickly in the international press, particularly in Russia and Israel. Among others, the Wiesenthal Center's director Efraim Zuroff criticized the exhibition, stating that it is not enough to remove two videos as the whole exhibition should be shut down.\n\nMain critical arguments include joking about Holocaust, mocking, lack of empathy amongst the artists and the authors of the exhibition, and the need to identify the boundaries of art. \"I think that there should be ethical boundaries of freedom of speech and freedom of expression of art that should not be prescribed by law but should be in the hearts of people,\" said Laine Randjärv. \"Organizers of the exhibition have been ignoring the principles of good practices and the principles of respecting other people and nations,\" found Jüri Ratas. \"The reaction and the triggered debate in the society leads us to ask again where are the boundaries of art,\" said Urve Tiidus.\n\nA couple of days later, first statements supporting the curator and Tartu Art Museum started to appear, mostly made by people of art and culture. The criticism was also disputed by the interview to Eesti Televisioon by the author of the most criticized videos, Artur Żmijewski, who said: \"We recall the past events and it is not a passive recalling but an active one. My purpose is not to provoke anyone. There are always those who feel provoked but it wasn't my intention.\" Among the supporters of the exhibition have been a board member of the Contemporary Art Museum of Estonia Anders Härm, artist Kiwa, artist Jaan Elken, semiotician Mihhail Lotman, artist Marko Mäetamm (the single Estonian artist represented on the exhibition), former Minister of Culture Rein Lang, journalist Kadri Veermäe, artist Marge Monko, etc.\n\nOn ETV morning show \"Terevisioon\", Sirje Helme, the director of Estonian Art Museum Kumu, commented the situation as follows: ˮThis debate can't be about whether it is art or not. The question is, how far can an artwork go in its freedom to sharply touch this or that subject. /.../ I think that there are almost no limits in democratic freedom but some things are agreed upon not to be touched, and Holocaust is certainly one of those things. So the question is not whether it is a good or bad work of art, the problem is that it has touched a subject which is declared to be taboo in Europe and America. /.../ This is a political world, not a world of art. I think this subject does not belong to the art world.\" Anders Härm responded: ˮI think that there is no such rule. There is no theme more mediated than Holocaust if we talk about the horrors during the Second World War. The work by John Smith referred to this – commercialization of Holocaust. Jean Baudrillard and Umberto Eco have also talked about how Hollywood wouldn't let Jews to forgive and Germans to be forgiven.\" Sirje Helme said: ˮFor me, this question is in black and white. I will stick to my opinion that it is not about art with its aesthetical criteria and sensitivities. The question here is that the topic is sacred and only certain people can engage in it.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26493623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26493623", "title": "New European Painting", "text": "New European Painting\n\nNew European Painting emerged in the 1980s and reached a critical point of major distinction and influence in the 1990s with painters like Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke, Georg Baselitz, Anselm Kiefer and Bracha Ettinger whose paintings have established and continue to create a new dialogue between the historical archive, American Abstraction and figuration. The major new European painters of this era show strong engagements with painful personal and general history, as well as shared history; its memory and its oblivion; and with life under the shadow of World War II, utilizing research in new and old materials, photography and oil painting.\n\nThese were followed by painters like Luc Tuymans, Marlene Dumas and others. A third wave came with artists like Neo Rauch, Michaël Borremans and Chris Ofili. Neo-expressionism and other related movements in painting have emerged in the final two decades of the 20th century in Europe and in the United States, but this New Painting is not expressionist. Rather it is a renovative kind of abstraction and figuration that relates to the parallel practice of a turning into art of personal and historical photographic archives.\n\nNew European Painting relates to the post-traumatic traces of war and it involves working oil painting and drawings with new media like photography, xerox and digital media to create and develop a postmodern archive \"fever\". This painting relates through this aspect to the post-World War II \"archive\" art with artists like Christian Boltanski and Jochen Gerz, and it is often a part of this tendency. Yet, though this painting has a clear figurative stroke it is strongly connected to Lyrical Abstraction to contemporary reconsiderations of the Sublime in art while creating a new inner space in painting and in the series of paintings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31149462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31149462", "title": "Ognissanti Madonna", "text": "Ognissanti Madonna\n\nMadonna Enthroned, also known as the Ognissanti Madonna, is a painting by the Italian late medieval artist Giotto di Bondone, housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.\n\nThe painting has a traditional Christian subject, representing the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child seated on her lap, with saints and angels surrounding them on all sides. This particular representation of the Virgin is called a Maestà, a popular representation at the time. It is often celebrated as the first painting of the Renaissance due to its newfound naturalism and escape from the constraints of Gothic art.\n\nIt is generally dated to around 1310. While historians have had trouble finding specific information for indisputably attributing many of Giotto's works to the artist, \"Madonna Enthroned\" is one piece for which there are a few documents supporting its creation by Giotto. There are many sources that show he spent many years living and creating in Florence. However, the main source that documents \"Madonna Enthroned\" specifically is artist Lorenzo Ghiberti's autobiography, \"I Commentarii\" (1447). An earlier manuscript document of 1418 also attributes the painting to Giotto, but it is Ghiberti's autobiography that provides the most solid evidence.\n\nOne of Giotto's later works, \"Madonna Enthroned\" was completed in Florence, upon the artist's return to the city. It was originally painted for the Ognissanti Franciscan church in Florence. Built for the Humiliati, a small religious order at the time, the church had many acclaimed paintings designed for it. Specifically, Giotto's \"Madonna Enthroned\" was designed for the high altar.\n\nThe \"Madonna Enthroned\" shows the numerous styles of art that influenced Giotto. In both the gold coloring used throughout the artwork and the flattened gold background, Giotto's art continued the traditional Italo-Byzantine style so popular in the proto-Renaissance time period. The altarpiece represents a formalized representation of an icon, still retaining the stiffness of Byzantine art, and Giotto retained the hierarchy of scale, making the centralized Madonna and the Christ Child much larger in size than the surrounding saints and religious figures.\n\nGiotto's figures however escape the bounds of Byzantine art. His figures are weighty and are reminiscent of three-dimensional sculptures, such as that in classical Roman sculpture. The Madonna's intricately decorated throne, which itself is an Italian Gothic design, has a very specific use of colored marble as a surface decoration. This method of decoration, based on a style called Cosmatesque or Cosmati, was popular in Rome since the Early Christian period and in Tuscany in the Late Middle Ages. \nThere were, additionally, a number of specific artists whose styles heavily influenced \"The Ognissanti Madonna\". The influence of Cimabue, traditionally recognized as Giotto's teacher, is shown first in the very symmetrical composition of the piece. Cimabue portrayed the same subject in his 1280 \"Virgin and Child Enthroned\", and both pieces share aspects of the Italo-Byzantine style, with Cimabue's having more Byzantine attributes. Additionally, the two depictions of the angels' wings in Giotto and Cimabue's pieces clearly resemble each other. Both pieces share a similar, initial feeling of severity, yet there is more to each piece than the drama. Giotto adopted from his teacher the importance of, and the concern for, volume and forms in space. \n\nThe tranquility of Giotto's figures resembled also the style of Pietro Cavallini. From this artist, who painted neo-Byzantine pieces, taking cues from both mosaics and frescos from Roman and Early Christian times, Giotto took important lessons in the technique of painting, and in rendering figures as statuesque and calm.<br> Lastly, Giotto took cues from many contemporary sculptors, including Nicola and Giovanni Pisano, whose work shares influences of Northern Gothic art. In the work of these artists, Giotto saw great, dramatic compositions that would certainly influence his \"Ognissanti Madonna\".\n\nGiotto was the first artist to depict three-dimensional figures in western European art. Additionally, he used a much smaller space than other contemporary artists, further emphasizing the importance of the bodies in the artwork. Giotto did away with many aspects of Byzantine art that would flatten the painting. Within Cimabue's \"Virgin and Child Enthroned\", there is the use of gold tracing to delineate the folds of the fabric. In contrast to this, Giotto's fabric folds are more realistic, and instead of lines he used light, shadow, and color to create the appearance of fabric. Contours of the body underneath these fabric folds are also visible, specifically in the Virgin's knees and also around her breasts. \n\nGiotto used a value scale, a distinct range of light and darks, to create a sense of volume in his figures, giving them the slight smokiness that is usually characteristic of Leonardo da Vinci and later Renaissance artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41814373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41814373", "title": "Ourense Torcs", "text": "Ourense Torcs\n\nThe Ourense Torcs are a pair of Iron Age gold torc neck rings found near Ourense in Northwest Spain in the 1950s. They were acquired by the British Museum in 1960.\n\nThe exact find spot of the two neck rings has never been confirmed but experts have determined, based on the shape and design of the torcs, that they originate from Ourense in the province of Galicia near the Spanish/Portuguese border.\n\nThe two gold torcs are nearly identical with double reel-shaped terminals and circular body. The terminals have a large tapered central depression, with embossed ornamentation around the edge. Their Celtic design is characteristic of the torcs produced in Galicia and northern Portugal, in the Iberian Peninsular.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2588267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2588267", "title": "Outdoor literature", "text": "Outdoor literature\n\nOutdoor literature is a literature genre about or involving the outdoors. Outdoor literature encompasses several different subgenres including exploration literature, adventure literature, mountain literature and nature writing. Another subgenre is the guide book, an early example of which was Thomas West's guide to the Lake District published in 1778. The genres can include activities such as exploration, survival, sailing, hiking, mountaineering, whitewater boating, geocaching or kayaking, or writing about nature and the environment. Travel literature is similar to outdoor literature but differs in that it does not always deal with the out-of-doors, but there is a considerable overlap between these genres, in particular with regard to long journeys.\n\nHenry David Thoreau's \"Walden\" (1854) is an early and influential work. Although not entirely an outdoor work (he lived in a cabin close to civilization) he expressed the ideas of why people go out into the wilderness to camp, backpack and hike: to get away from the rush of modern society and simplify life. This was a new perspective for the time and thus \"Walden\" has had a lasting influence on most outdoor authors.\n\nRobert Louis Stevenson's \"Travels with a Donkey in the Cévennes\" (1879), about his travels in Cévennes (France), is among the first popular books to present hiking and camping as recreational activities, and tells of commissioning one of the first sleeping bags.\n\nIn the world of sailing Joshua Slocum's \"Sailing Alone Around the World\" (1900) is a classic of outdoor literature. In April 1895, Joshua Slocum set sail from Boston, Massachusetts and in \"Sailing Alone Around the World\", he described his departure:\n\nMore than three years later, on June 27, 1898, he returned to Newport, Rhode Island, having circumnavigated the world, a distance of more than 46,000 miles (74,000 km).\n\nThe National Outdoor Book Award was established in 1997 as a US-based non-profit program which each year honours the best in outdoor writing and publishing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13938381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938381", "title": "Percy Anderson", "text": "Percy Anderson\n\nPercy Anderson (1851 – 30 October 1928) was an English stage designer and painter, best known for his work for the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree's company at His Majesty’s Theatre and Edwardian musical comedies.\n\nAnderson's first significant production was the comic opera \"Lady of the Locket\", composed by William Fullerton Jr. with a libretto by Henry Hamilton. Beginning with \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" (1888), Anderson designed the costumes for all the original productions of the Savoy Operas. He continued to design costumes for D'Oyly Carte revivals in the early twentieth century, including for \"Trial by Jury, H.M.S. Pinafore, The Pirates of Penzance, Patience, Iolanthe, Princess Ida, Ruddigore, The Yeomen of the Guard,\" and \"The Gondoliers.\" For Herbert Beerbohm Tree at His Majesty's Theatre, Anderson designed \"Twelfth Night, The Merry Wives of Windsor, Richard II, King John, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, The Tempest\", and two plays by Stephen Phillips, \"Herod\" and \"Ulysses\". He designed the costumes for Henry James’s ill-fated theatrical effort, \"Guy Domville\"; \"The Times\" was not impressed by either the play or the costumes.\n\nAmong Anderson's other successes were \"Trelawny of the 'Wells'\" (1898), \"Merrie England\" (1902), \"Véronique\" (1904), the hit British premiere of \"The Merry Widow\" in 1907, \"Fallen Fairies\" (1909), \"Kismet\" (1911) and \"Chu Chin Chow\" (1916). He designed the costumes for various productions of Edwardian musical comedies for George Edwardes, such as the hit musical \"San Toy\" in 1899 and \"The Duchess of Dantzic\" in 1903. The Royal Opera House commissioned Anderson to design costumes in 1900. Anderson's designs were also used in a number of Broadway productions.\n\nAnderson had private means, and for a time roomed with Morton Fullerton. He was part of a circle of rich, artistic homosexual men, who included Lord Ronald Gower, the courtier Alec Yorke and Hamilton Aïdé. In the 1910s, Anderson was closely associated with the young novelist Hugh Walpole\n\n\"The Times\", in its obituary notice, said of Anderson that he escaped from the pedantry of his predecessors and paved the way in a most interesting manner for Bakst, Claud Lovat Fraser and Gordon Craig. As a painter, Anderson achieved a modest success, and his portraits hang in the collections of the National Portrait Gallery, the Louvre, and the British Museum. He illustrated the 1907 book, \"Costume: Fanciful, Historical and Theatrical\".\n\nAnderson died in King's College Hospital, London, in 1928, aged 76 or 77.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1463084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1463084", "title": "Persian gardens", "text": "Persian gardens\n\nThe tradition and style of garden design represented by Persian gardens or Iranian gardens () has influenced the design of gardens from Andalusia to India and beyond. The gardens of the Alhambra show the influence of Persian garden philosophy and style in a Moorish palace scale, from the era of al-Andalus in Spain. Humayun's Tomb and Taj Mahal have some of the largest Persian gardens in the world, from the era of the Mughal Empire in India.\n\nFrom the time of the Achaemenid Empire, the idea of an earthly paradise spread through Persian literature and example to other cultures, both the Hellenistic gardens of the Seleucid Empire and the Ptolemies in Alexandria. The Avestan word \"pairidaēza-\", Old Persian *\"paridaida-\", Median *\"paridaiza-\" (walled-around, i.e., a walled garden), was borrowed into Akkadian, and then into Greek , then rendered into the Latin \"paradīsus\", and from there entered into European languages, e.g., French \"paradis\", German \"Paradies\", and English \"paradise\".\n\nAs the word expresses, such gardens would have been enclosed. The garden's purpose was, and is, to provide a place for protected relaxation in a variety of manners: spiritual, and leisurely (such as meetings with friends), essentially a \"paradise on earth\". The Common Iranian word for \"enclosed space\" was *\"pari-daiza-\" (Avestan \"pairi-daēza-\"), a term that was adopted by Christian mythology to describe the garden of Eden or Paradise on earth.\n\nThe garden's construction may be formal (with an emphasis on structure) or casual (with an emphasis on nature), following several simple design rules. This allows a maximization, in terms of function and emotion, of what may be done in the garden.\n\nPersian gardens may originate as early as 4000 BC. Decorated pottery of that time displays the typical cross plan of the Persian garden. The outline of Pasargadae, built around 500 BC, is viewable today.\n\nDuring the reign of the Sasanian Empire (third to seventh century), and under the influence of Zoroastrianism, water in art grew increasingly important. This trend manifested itself in garden design, with greater emphasis on fountains and ponds in gardens.\n\nDuring the Islamic occupation, the aesthetic aspect of the garden increased in importance, overtaking utility. During this time, aesthetic rules that govern the garden grew in importance. An example of this is the \"chahār bāgh\" (), a form of garden that attempts to emulate the Garden of Eden, with four rivers and four quadrants that represent the world. The design sometimes extends one axis longer than the cross-axis, and may feature water channels that run through each of the four gardens and connect to a central pool.\n\nThe invasion of Persia by the Mongols in the thirteenth century led to a new emphasis on highly ornate structure in the garden. Examples of this include tree peonies and chrysanthemums. The Mongols then carried a Persian garden tradition to other parts of their empire (notably India).\n\nBabur introduced the Persian garden to India. The now unkempt Aram Bagh, Agra was the first of many Persian gardens he created. The Taj Mahal embodies the Persian concept of an ideal paradise garden.\n\nThe Safavid dynasty (seventeenth to eighteenth century) built and developed grand and epic layouts that went beyond a simple extension to a palace and became an integral aesthetic and functional part of it. In the following centuries, European garden design began to influence Persia, particularly the designs of France, and secondarily that of Russia and the United Kingdom. Western influences led to changes in the use of water and the species used in bedding.\n\nTraditional forms and style are still applied in modern Iranian gardens. They also appear in historic sites, museums and affixed to the houses of the rich.\n\nSunlight and its effects were an important factor of structural design in Persian gardens. Textures and shapes were specifically chosen by architects to harness the light.\n\nIran's dry heat makes shade important in gardens, which would be nearly unusable without it. Trees and trellises largely feature as biotic shade; pavilions and walls are also structurally prominent in blocking the sun.\n\nThe heat also makes water important, both in the design and maintenance of the garden. Irrigation may be required, and may be provided via a form of underground tunnel called a \"qanat\", that transports water from a local aquifer. Well-like structures then connect to the qanat, enabling the drawing of water. Alternatively, an animal-driven Persian well would draw water to the surface. Such wheel systems also moved water around surface water systems, such as those in the \"chahar bāgh\" style. Trees were often planted in a ditch called a \"juy\", which prevented water evaporation and allowed the water quick access to the tree roots.\n\nThe Persian style often attempts to integrate indoors with outdoors through the connection of a surrounding garden with an inner courtyard. Designers often place architectural elements such as vaulted arches between the outer and interior areas to open up the divide between them.\n\nAn early description (from the first half of the fourth century BCE) of a Persian garden is found in Xenophon's \"Oeconomicus\" in which he has Socrates relate the story of the Spartan general Lysander's visit to the Persian prince Cyrus the Younger, who shows the Greek his \"paradise at Sardis\". In this story Lysander is \"astonished at the beauty of the trees within, all planted at equal intervals, the long straight rows of waving branches, the perfect regularity, the rectangular symmetry of the whole, and the many sweet scents which hung about them as they paced the park\"\n\nThe oldest representational descriptions and illustrations of Persian gardens come from travelers who reached Iran from the west. These accounts include Ibn Battuta in the fourteenth century, Ruy González de Clavijo in the fifteenth century and Engelbert Kaempfer in the seventeenth century. Battuta and Clavijo made only passing references to gardens and did not describe their design, but Kaempfer made careful drawings and converted them into detailed engravings after his return to Europe. They show chahar bāgh type gardens that featured an enclosing wall, rectangular pools, an internal network of canals, garden pavilions and lush planting. There are surviving examples of this garden type at Yazd (Dowlatabad) and at Kashan (Fin Garden). The location of the gardens Kaempfer illustrated in Isfahan can be identified.\n\nThe six primary styles of the Persian garden may be seen in the following table, which puts them in the context of their function and style. Gardens are not limited to a particular style, but often integrate different styles, or have areas with different functions and styles.\n\nPublicly, it is a classical Persian layout with heavy emphasis on aesthetics over function. Man-made structures in the garden are particularly important, with arches and pools (which may be used to bathe). The ground is often covered in gravel flagged with stone. Plantings are typically very simple - such as a line of trees, which also provide shade.\n\nPrivately, these gardens are often pool-centred and, again, structural. The pool serves as a focus and source of humidity for the surrounding atmosphere. There are few plants, often due to the limited water available in urban areas.\n\nThis is a public, formal garden that puts more emphasis on the biotic element than the \"hayāt\" and that minimises structure. Plants range from trees, to shrubs, to bedding plants, to grasses. Again, there are elements such as a pool and gravel pathways which divide the lawn. When structures are used, they are often built, as in the case of pavilions, to provide shade.\n\nThese gardens are private and formal. The basic structure consists of four quadrants divided by waterways or pathways. Traditionally, the rich used such gardens in work-related functions (such as entertaining ambassadors). These gardens balance structure with greenery, with the plants often around the periphery of a pool and path based structure.\n\nMuch like many other parks, the Persian park serves a casual public function with emphasis on plant life. They provide pathways and seating, but are otherwise usually limited in terms of structural elements. The purpose of such places is relaxation and socialisation.\n\nLike the other casual garden, the park, \"bāgh\" emphasizes the natural and green aspect of the garden. Unlike the park it is a private area often affixed to houses and often consisting of lawns, trees, and ground plants. The waterways and pathways stand out less than in the more formal counterparts and are largely functional. The primary function of such areas is familial relaxation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23618261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23618261", "title": "Perth Theatre", "text": "Perth Theatre\n\nPerth Theatre at 185 High Street, (no longer registered address) Perth, Scotland opened in 1900 and was extended in the 1980s.\n\nThe building is category B listed by Historic Scotland, and is operated by the charitable organisation Horsecross Arts, alongside sister venue Perth Concert Hall. \nOn 4 January 2014, the theatre closed to undergo renovations and expansions. Among the plans for the theatre are new seats, another smaller theatre, and a new entrance. The original auditorium has also now been restored to its original condition, and the theatre reopened to the public in December 2017 with a pantomime.\n\nThe theatre opened on Perth High Street in 1900 and was planned to seat 950 in the auditorium, with pit, two balconies and boxes. It was created by the Perth Theatre & Opera House Co Ltd and designed by Dundee`s City Architect, William Alexander. It is similar in style and layout to his design of Her Majesty`s Theatre, Dundee, but on a smaller scale. The foundation stone was laid in 1899 by actor George Alexander. The founding lessee was JH Savile, who owned Paisley Theatre, and in 1909 bought the Perth theatre outright. The Savile family continued to run the theatre until 1935, staging drama, opera, musicals, pantomime, revues and variety. JH Savile also founded his own Repertory Companies in Paisley and Perth which at their height produced 40 plays a year.\n\nIn 1935, Perth Theatre was sold to a new company created in London, the Perth Repertory Theatre Ltd., by Ernest Dence in support of his actress daughter Marjorie Dence, who succeeded as owner in 1937 on his death. Marjorie Dence and actor David Steuart co-founded their new venture, the Perth Repertory Company, whose annual and highly acclaimed work covered nine months of repertory in and around Perth with three months of touring of the Highlands & Islands, to the Northern Isles, and to the lowland towns of the Borders. In the first year alone 51 plays were produced. Perth Theatre hosted the first Scottish Theatre Festival in 1939 and again in 1945.\n\nThe founders added a second repertory company from 1946 to 1958, which alternated with Perth, ensuring repertory at Kirkcaldy, mainly in its Adam Smith Hall. Perth Repertory continued throughout the war and thrived until Miss Dence`s passing in 1966.\nIn her will, Dence gave first option to buy the theatre to the Scottish Committee of the Arts Council, which did so and transferred it to Perth City Council. Joan Knight was appointed as Artistic Director in 1968, continuing the repertory company and mentoring performers and would-be-directors. During her 26-year tenure at Perth Theatre, she oversaw a major rebuilding programme in 1981 and 1985, adding a restaurant, studio theatre, rehearsal room, more dressing rooms and a workshop facility.\nIn 2005, Perth Theatre's sister venue, Perth Concert Hall, was launched under the direction of the Jane Speirs, first CEO of Horsecross Arts. She also began fundraising for the theatre`s restoration and major redevelopment for which Richard Murphy, architects, were appointed by the Council in 2008.\n\nHistoric B-listed, Victorian Auditorium will be restored to its former glory. The upper circle will be reinstated and an orchestra area will be re-introduced. The theatre will also benefit from improvements to seating, sightlines, circulation, ventilation, lighting and new equipment.\n\nStudio Theatre\nA new 200-seat capacity, courtyard-style studio theatre will be built to meet the demand for staging small to mid-scale performances.\n\nCreative Learning\nAn extension will provide a number of spaces for creative learning activities and a home for Perth Youth Theatre.\n\nAccess\nFor the first time there will be level access to Perth Theatre's foyer, Box Office, auditorium, creative learning spaces and café, bar and restaurant from a new Mill Street entrance. There will also be a lift to allow ease of access to all other levels. The High Street entrance, complete with iconic arch, will be retained ensuring Perth Theatre's presence on the busy shopping street remains and offering shoppers a direct route into the building.\n\nRichard Murphy Architects, UK were appointed architects for the project in 2008.\n\nDemolition of the theatre's 1980s extension began on 19 April 2016.\n\nThroughout its history, a number of star acts performed at Perth Theatre, including a young Alec Guinness, Walter Carr (actor), Edward Woodward, Una McLean and Donald Sutherland. More recently Crieff’s own Ewan McGregor began his acting career at the theatre – McGregor is also Project Ambassador of Transform Perth Theatre.\n\nEstablished in 1966 by Brian Howard and Catherine Robins, Perth Youth Theatre was the first theatre-based youth theatre group in Scotland. Perth Youth Theatre has trained young people in acting and stage craft for 50 years. Perth Youth Theatre Alumni included Rhod Sharp, Stuart Cosgrove, Ewan McGregor, Colin McCredie and Sally Reid\n\n\"\"What happened to us there – boys and girls – was profound, and often profoundly funny. In the children's show, the name of which I cannot remember, I played my first custard pie scene with Stuart Cosgrove. It used a lot shaving foam and Stuart usually came off better. We didn't know who we would become, but few of us had doubts that we would become something.\" Rhod Sharp, 2015\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22833643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22833643", "title": "Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper", "text": "Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper\n\nPortrait Miniature of Margaret Roper is a painting by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger created between 1535–36, and today held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Margaret Roper (1505–44) was the eldest child of Sir Thomas More and wife of the English biographer William Roper. It is the second and less well known of two portraits of Roper painted by Holbein. The first, \"Portrait of an English Woman\", is generally believed to show Roper but may depict another unknown lady of the English court. The New York work was painted during the artist's second visit to London, likely in the mid-1530s.\n\nIt is believed that the work was created shortly after her father's beheading at the hands of King Henry VIII in 1535. With a diameter of just , the work was one of over a hundred miniatures and portraits painted by Holbein while in England. This work is one of a pair of pendants; the second depicts the sitter's husband.\n\nRoper is depicted in three-quarters view with a narrow face and wearing extravagant clothes that reflect her social position. She is wearing a gable hood with pinned up red/orange embroidered lappets (facing the viewer) and a long black veil (with one side pinned up). Her black gown is lined with a broad band of fur. She holds a green book in her hands which are decorated by gold rings. A horizontal gold inscription reads \"Ao ÆTATIS XXX\". The work was donated to the Metropolitan Museum by the Rogers Fund in 1950.\n\n"}
{"id": "42195716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42195716", "title": "Pour une critique des traductions: John Donne", "text": "Pour une critique des traductions: John Donne\n\nPour une critique des traductions: John Donne is a posthumous book by Antoine Berman, published in 1995.\n\nPublished posthumously in France, develops an original concept of “criticism of translation” and a methodology to anchor the practice of this criticism. The work of translation is a critical process as well as a creative one. Moving away from nonsystematic evaluative approaches that focus on the shortcomings of translations or the normative approaches that study the cultural and literary systems into which the translations are inserted, Berman applies the notion of ethics he developed in his earlier works, calling for a translation that is nonethnocentric and stipulating that the creativity required by translation be focused on the re-creation of the original in the other language without being over-determined by the personal poetics of the writer-translator.\n\nThe book is divided into two parts, each focused on one element of the ethics of translation: theory (reflection) and practice (experience). In the first part Berman presents what he calls a general “productive criticism,” while in the second part he applies the general theoretical principles of this criticism to the analysis of the translations of John Donne’s work into French and Spanish.\n\nThis book has been influential in the field of translation studies in Latin America.\n\nIt was translated into English by Françoise Massardier-Kenney, \"Toward a Translation Criticism: John Donne\". Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "31775022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31775022", "title": "Principia philosophiae cartesianae", "text": "Principia philosophiae cartesianae\n\nPrincipia philosophiae cartesianae (PPC; \"The Principles of Cartesian Philosophy\") or Renati Descartes principia philosophiae, more geometrico demonstrata (\"The Principles of René Descartes' Philosophy, Demonstrated in Geometrical Order\") is a philosophical work of Baruch Spinoza published in Amsterdam in 1663. In the preface to this work, Ludovic Meyer explains that it is a reconstruction of René Descartes' \"Principles of Philosophy \"in the Euclidean or \"geometric\" fashion\". \"In the appendix, a series of non-geometric prose passages entitled \"Metaphysical Thoughts\" [\"Cogitata Metaphisica\"], Spinoza explicates Descartes' views on traditional metaphysical topics (including essence, existence, idea, potential, necessity, contingency, duration, and time) while furtively interpolating some of his own.\n"}
{"id": "1625705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625705", "title": "Quadrangle (Springfield, Massachusetts)", "text": "Quadrangle (Springfield, Massachusetts)\n\nThe Quadrangle is the common name for a cluster of museums and cultural institutions in Metro Center, Springfield, Massachusetts, on Chestnut Street between State and Edwards Streets.\n\nThe Dr. Seuss National Memorial Sculpture Garden, in the center of the Quadrangle, is surrounded by a park, a library, four active museums, a fifth museum due to open in 2017, and a cathedral. A second cathedral is just on the Quadrangle's periphery.\n\nOn the corner of Chestnut and State Streets, Merrick Park is distinguished by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens \"The Puritan,\" a statue depicting one of Springfield's settlers, Deacon Samuel Chapin. Springfield Central Library and Christ Church Cathedral are adjacent to the park.\n\nThe Central Library, constructed in 1913, was paid for by Andrew Carnegie. It is the second library to be built at that location. The nonfiction department is based in Rice Hall (named for William Rice), consisting of a main floor and mezzanine. Opposite Rice Hall is the Arts and Music Hall, where multimedia, periodicals, and the computer lab are based. The circulation desk lies in the rotunda between the two halls. Fiction, children's literature, and community rooms are in the basement. The Central Library also has a Teen Advisory Board — a grouping of teenagers who help make decisions and organize events at the library geared towards teenagers.\n\nThe Roman Catholic St. Michael's Cathedral adjoins the neo-classical Springfield City Library at the southeast corner of the Quadrangle.\n\nAlso located near that edge of the Quadrangle is the Episcopal Diocese of Western Massachusetts' Christ Church Cathedral.\n\nSpringfield Museums Corporation operates the Dr. Seuss Memorial and four museums on the Quadrangle, with a fifth museum due to open in 2017. In 2013, the Springfield Museum consortium achieved national accreditation from the American Alliance of Museums, a distinction awarded to only 6% of national museums in the US. In September 2016, Springfield Museums was named as a Smithsonian affiliate, opening up new opportunities for cultural and historical exhibits, as well as educational programs.\n\nThe George Walter Vincent Smith Art Museum is the oldest museum on the Quadrangle. The museum is named for the collection's original owner. Its exhibits express the taste of Smith and his wife, Belle, and they bequeathed their notable collection to begin the museum. The building dates from 1895 and was designed by Renwick, Aspinwall and Russell and Walter T. Owen.\n\nThe Ancient Treasures Gallery displays objects from ancient Egypt, China, Greece and Rome. The gallery also presents Greek and Roman sculpture from the recently acquired Blake/Purnell Collection of antiquities, and ancient Chinese ceramics and bronzes from the Bidwell Collection. Greek pottery and glass from the George Walter Vincent Smith Collection complement the classical sculptures.\n\nThe Japanese Arms and Armor Gallery, in addition to holding Smith's extensive collection of Oriental armor, is the site of an ornate Shinto wheel shrine carved during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Among other collections is a 150-piece holding of Chinese cloisonne work, one of the most extensive collections outside of China.\n\nThe Michele & Donald D’Amour Museum of Fine Arts features mostly American and European works including those of Massachusetts native John Singleton Copley and lithographs of Currier and Ives. Works by Edgar Degas, Claude Monet, and others can be found in the European collection. The Museum features many interactive exhibits as well. It also has Late Medieval and Renaissance paintings by Spinello Aretino, Nicolás Francés, Domingo Valls, Pordenone, Daniele da Volterra (\"Diana\"), and Goswin van der Weyden. It also has Baroque and 18th Century paintings by Pierre Patel, Jacob Jordaens, Emanuel de Witte, Jan van Goyen, Ferdinand Bol, Jean-Étienne Liotard, Canaletto, and Giovanni Paolo Panini. There are also American paintings by Erastus Salisbury Field, Frederic Edwin Church, George Bellows, and Georgia O'Keeffe. There are also contemporary works of art by Helen Frankenthaler, Joseph Grillo, and Lisa Hoke.\n\nThe Springfield Science Museum displays elements of natural and physical science from the Eco-Center featuring live animals, to the African Hall, which gives visitors a ground-sky perspective of an ecosystem on the Savannah. Dinosaur Hall includes a lifesize \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" model and skeletons from other dinosaurs. The museum also features a planetarium – the first built in the United States, and one of the very few of the era not built by Zeiss – and earth science exhibits. Additionally, the museum has its own observatory with a telescope that is periodically open to the public.\n\nThe Quadrangle's perimeter was at one time open to vehicles, but was closed off in the 1990s, becoming a pedestrian-only park. Soon after that, the Dr. Seuss National Memorial Sculpture Garden was opened. Several statues depicting Springfield native Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss) and many of his creations were sculpted and placed on the Quadrangle green. Starting in 2017, the William Pynchon Memorial Building, which formerly housed the Connecticut Valley Historical Museum, reopened as the Amazing World of Dr. Seuss Museum in June 2017.\n\nThe newest museum at the Quadrangle is the Lyman and Merrie Wood Museum of Springfield History. It opened in the fall of 2009 on the former site of famed painter James MacNeill Whistler's childhood home. It tells the story of Springfield, and in particular, highlights its role as \"The City of Progress\" and \"The City of Firsts\". The collection features exhibits on the numerous inventions and pioneering manufacturing techniques innovated there, the city's role in American history, as well as examining Springfield in a broader context as a city during various eras, (e.g. different wars, several mass immigrations, and changing transportation technology). Exhibits of antique cars and firearms, formerly housed at the Connecticut Valley Historical Museum, showcase the city's various industries. Also included is a large number of items from the former Indian Motorcycle Museum.\nThe museum also houses the Springfield History Library and Archives, a collection of historical papers and documents, including genealogical records and over 20,000 books related to genealogy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2368893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368893", "title": "Red Hot Catholic Love", "text": "Red Hot Catholic Love\n\n\"Red Hot Catholic Love\" is the 87th episode of the Comedy Central series \"South Park\". It originally aired on July 3, 2002. It was selected No. 2 on the \"10 South Parks that Changed the World\" list, and was also part of \"South Park's Dirty Dozen.\" In the episode, Father Maxi travels to the Vatican to confront the growing problem of Catholic priests molesting children. Meanwhile, Cartman discovers that it is possible to defecate from the mouth.\n\nThe parents of South Park are a bit concerned when Father Maxi informs them about the Young Men's Catholic Retreat and agree that they do not want their kids to go. They also decide to have a counselor talk to the boys to find out if the priest had been molesting them. The counselor, assuming the children were molested, asks, \"Did Father Maxi, at any time, ever try to put something in your butt?\" Having never been abused by Father Maxi, the boys are completely baffled about the question's meaning. Cartman has a \"brilliant\" idea, reasoning she meant it could be possible that eating food through the rectum can cause defecation through the mouth. The other boys (especially Kyle) think it is stupid and disgusting, and Cartman bets him $20 it will work. While the counselor is questioning the boys, all the parents decide to become atheists, as the sexual molestation scandals have destroyed their faith in Catholicism and God.\n\nCartman ultimately does defecate out of his mouth, winning the bet and continually boasts the fact to Kyle, who becomes increasingly angered by it. News of this spreads, and it is concluded nationwide that this method of eating is much healthier than the traditional method (with the surgeon general basing that on \"absolutely nothing\"). The adults of South Park immediately adopt the new method of eating, calling it \"interorectogestion\" and even start passing trash cans around at social situations to openly collect the waste (literally \"spewing crap from their mouths\"), completely disregarding the previously long-held custom that defecation should occur in private. \n\nMeanwhile, Maxi has gathered a meeting of Catholic priests in Colorado to discuss the problem of child molestation. Maxi is appalled by such behavior and wants it to cease entirely, but to Maxi's horror, all of the other priests there have molested their altar boys. Maxi decides he has to go to the Vatican. Once there, he quickly finds the same: priests from all over the world (and from other worlds, specifically an alien race known as the Gelgameks) are molesting children and claim they need to continue the practice to receive gratification. They claim the \"Holy Document of Vatican Law\" does not prohibit the behavior, so Maxi wants to change the canon law to outlaw sodomy, as well as to allow sex with women. The Cardinal tells him that the Document cannot be changed as no one knows where it is. Maxi decides to try to find it. Meanwhile, Kyle has lost his patience with Cartman's incessant boasting and tells Cartman that he accepts the fact that he beat him fairly. This angers Cartman, as he wanted to hold the victorious bet over Kyle's head indefinitely.\n\nMaxi searches through the lower levels of the Vatican, and goes through a gauntlet in the style of \"Pitfall!\" in order to reach the Holy Document. But the Pope says they must first consult the highest power. He summons the \"Queen Spider\", which has for centuries been responsible for the pedophilia in the church, and declares that the Holy Document of Vatican Law cannot be changed. Angered by this, Maxi finally snaps and tears the Document in two, and the building begins to crumble. Maxi stands in front of the ruins, and tells everyone that Catholicism is not about the Holy Document of Vatican Law, molestation, or Queen Spiders, but about being a good person. He says by clouding the moral lessons of the Bible with needless ceremony and so many literal translations, the Vatican has caused people to reject religion and argues that \"when they have no mythology to live their lives by, they just start spewing a bunch of crap out of their mouths\". The parents, watching this on TV, regain their faith in God, deciding to stop shoving food up their rectum and to start going to church again, wanting to owe God an apology.\n\nIn the DVD commentary for this episode, Stone and Parker refer to their irritation towards arguments from more socially liberal/atheistic/secular minded types of people, as well as from socially religious conservatives. The scene where the parents discuss atheism while crapping out their mouths is based on Parker's annoyance with atheists. When Maxi searches for the Holy Document the scene is animated in the style of \"Pitfall!\" Randy's nightmare about the priest molesting the boys is done using footage from The Love Boat.\n\nThe Great Queen Spider was taken from \"Planet of the Spiders: Part One\", a 1974 episode of \"Doctor Who\", and is later referenced in the 2017 Role-playing video game \"\".\n\n\"Red Hot Catholic Love\", along with the sixteen other episodes from \"South Park\"'s sixth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on October 11, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. IGN gave the season a rating of 9/10.\n\n"}
{"id": "9252434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9252434", "title": "Relax...It's Just Sex", "text": "Relax...It's Just Sex\n\nRelax...It’s Just Sex is a 1998 romantic comedy film directed by P. J. Castellaneta.\n\nA diverse group of couples from different sexual orientations struggle and support each other through various issues, including violent hate crimes, HIV, conception, commitment, and love in 1990s Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "9391736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9391736", "title": "Silent agitators", "text": "Silent agitators\n\nMany organizations have used stickers to publicize their philosophy or cause. The Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), which during its colorful history has pioneered a variety of creative tactics, calls its stickers silent agitators, or silent organizers. Professor Eric Margolis has written about the history of such media,\n\nWobbly organizers were revolutionary fish swimming in the sea of bindle stiffs and tramp workers. The Wobbly card was a ticket to ride the rails. \"Side door coaches,\" as box cars were called, were plastered with paper stickers, \"silent organizers,\" that Wobs put up everywhere they passed: \"Join the One Big Union,\" \"I Will Win,\" \"Win a World.\" \n\nSilent agitators were produced by the millions. Professor Margolis described the way such stickers were used when the Wobblies called a strike in 1927:\n\nBill Lloyd, Superintendent at the Puritan Mine (in Colorado's northern coal field), went to work one chilly Autumn morning to discover Wobbly stickers pasted on every timber and cross beam in the place: \"Join the Wobblies, Join the Wobblies,\" he said indignantly, \"From the bottom of the shaft clear to the working faces, see, they had these posters.\"\n\nBig Bill Haywood described in his autobiography how the IWW issued stickers to propagandize against the war. The stickers declared, \"Don't be a soldier, be a man. Join the I.W.W. and fight on the job for yourself and your class.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4095645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095645", "title": "The Girl with the Hungry Eyes (1967 film)", "text": "The Girl with the Hungry Eyes (1967 film)\n\nThe Girl with the Hungry Eyes is a 1967 film written and directed by William Rotsler.\n\nKitty and Tigercat are two lesbians and \"The Girl with the Hungry Eyes\" tells the tale of one woman's obsession with the other. It features Adele Rein as Kitty, Cathy Crowfoot as Tigercat, an early film appearance by Charlotte Stewart and a dance scene by Pat Barrington.\n\n"}
{"id": "37891643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37891643", "title": "The How and the Why", "text": "The How and the Why\n\nThe How and the Why is a play by Sarah Treem who is a staff writer for HBO 's \"In Treatment\". The play depicts two women biologists meeting for the first time, one near the end of her career and the other at the beginning. The older woman has earned fame for her work on the Grandmother hypothesis. The younger wants to present a radical new hypothesis to explain why human females menstruate while most mammals do not. The play deals with the workings of science and its impact on the personal lives of women scientists.\n\nThe play premiered in 2011 in Princeton, New Jersey at McCarter Theatre, and has since been produced in the Penguin Rep in New York, the Trinity Repertory Company in Rhode Island, the InterAct Theatre Company in Philadelphia, and Timeline Theatre Company in Chicago. It is currently being produced by Shakespeare & Company in Lenox, Massachusetts. Hennepin Theatre Trust In Minneapolis slated the play for a run March 10 through March 20, 2016 at New Century Theatre featuring Caroline Kaiser as Zelda Kahn.\nTheater J In Washington DC ran the play from February 15 to March 12, 2016. It was directed by Shirley Serotsky. The New Jewish Theatre in St. Louis, Missouri produced the play in February 2018. \n\nThe play draws on the work of scientist Margie Profet, who theorized that menstruation clears the body of toxins.\n"}
{"id": "58874798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58874798", "title": "Victor Chocquet", "text": "Victor Chocquet\n\nVictor Chocquet (9 December 1821 – 7 April 1891) was a French art collector and an ardent propagandist of Impressionism. As a senior editor at the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, he was present at all the exhibitions where he defended painters confronted with mockery and insults. His collection was huge. It was dispersed after his death in 1899. Many of the paintings are currently in American museums.\n\nChocquet was born in Lille in a wealthy family of silk millers. At a very young age, he devoted all his resources to the purchase of works of art: paintings (including those of Eugène Delacroix, Gustave Courbet, Honoré Daumier) porcelain, and furniture. In 1875, when he attended the 1875 Impressionist sale at the Hôtel Drouot, he fell in love with the paintings hooted by the audience. He asked Auguste Renoir to paint a portrait of his wife and their little daughter Marie-Sophie who died at the age of five, based on a photograph. During this first sale of the \"Société anonyme des artistes\" at the Hôtel Drouot on 24 March 1875, the painters' receipts did not cover their expenses, the average price of a painting amounting to 100 fr. That day he was one of the first supports of the artists with Ernest Hoschedé and .\n\nParticularly enthusiastic about Paul Cézanne whose paintings he saw at Père Tanguy's home, he spent a lot of energy verbally defending the painters at the 1876 and 1877 exhibitions to which he lent works from his collection. Despite the quolibets that welcomed Cézanne's presentation of his own portrait and despite violent criticism from the press, he was not discouraged, even when his resources diminished when he took early retirement (1877). From 1882, his mother-in-law's inheritance allowed him to resume his purchases and he acquired a property in Hattenville (Normandy) where a large number of works, including \"Ferme à Hattenville\", by Cézanne, were painted. His collection rivaled those of the greatest collectors: he was often quoted at the same time as Georges de Bellio and Eugène Murer in the press. He owned about 32 paintings by Cézanne.\n\nIn Paris, Victor Chocquet first lived in an apartment rue de Rivoli that overlooked the Tuileries Garden. It is from there that Monet painted several paintings, including \"Vue sur le jardin des Tuileries\" (1876). huile sur toile de 53.97 x 73.2 At the end of his life, he moved to a small 18th century mansion house, rue Monsigny.\n\nChocquet died in Paris on 7 April 1891 at age 69.\n\n"}
{"id": "58552351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58552351", "title": "Vlastenské Theatre", "text": "Vlastenské Theatre\n\nVlastenské Theatre ('Vlastenské divadlo') was a historic theatre in Prague, active between 1786 and 1811. It was a pioneer institution as the first Czech language theatre in Prague. While the Estates Theatre occasionally gave Czech language performances from 1785 onward, the Vlastenské was the first theatre to give exclusively Czech language plays. The theatre had numerous names during its relatively short existence, and it changed building several times.\n\n"}
{"id": "1546503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546503", "title": "WinCustomize", "text": "WinCustomize\n\nWinCustomize is a website that provides content for users to customize Microsoft Windows. The site hosts thousands of skins, themes, icons, wallpapers, and other graphical content to modify the Windows graphical user interface. There are some premium or paid content, however the vast majority of the content is free for users to download.\n\nWinCustomize was launched in March 2001 by Brad Wardell and Pat Ford, both of whom work at Stardock. After the dot-com recession had taken down many popular skin sites, WinCustomize quickly grew in popularity due to a combination of wide variety of content, uptime reliability, and being the preferred content destination by Stardock customers.\n\nThe site has grown at a far greater pace than its founders had anticipated. It has managed to avoid having to put many limitations on users or having to resort to pop-up advertising because of its corporate patron Stardock subsidizing its costs.\nThis growth has prompted several site redesigns to offer improved functionality and reliability to users.\n\nSince launch, WinCustomize has undergone several iterations:\n\nWinCustomize 2k5 - Launched at the end of 2004, WinCustomize was redesigned for improved stability, and added functionality (personal pages for subscribers, an articles system, tutorials etc.).\n\nWinCustomize 2k7 - Launched January 15, 2007, WC2k7 was a from-the-ground-up rewrite using ASP.NET. The focus was to build a foundation that was easier to maintain and, in the future, expand.\n\nWinCustomize v6 - Planned for Late 2008/Early 2009, the WC v6 project aims be a major revision to how users navigate and interact with the site and the community as a whole. Where 2k7 was focused on the core codebase, v6 is focused on the user interface and experience.\n\nIn July 2007 the WinCustomize Wiki was launched.\n\nWinCustomize 2010 - WinCustomize 2010 was launched on April 20, 2010. This major revision represents a major change in the sites look and navigation for users. A guided tour of the new site was published for users.\n\nWhile nearly all users visit WinCustomize.com to download skins, themes, icons, wallpapers, and other content for their personal computers, WinCustomize does have extensive forums and articles areas. As with most large sites, WinCustomize is not without its critics with regards to how the forums are run and the content in the articles and forums area.\n\nThe site's news contains a great deal of editorial content. As a result, some users are occasionally concerned with stories that they feel are biased against policies or issues they disagree with. For example, site owner Brad Wardell has written articles that are critical of Apple, European policy, commercialism, anti-commercialism, and more. One recent article criticized Norway's banning of the iPod music store.\n\nAnother criticism of WinCustomize is the site's close association with Stardock which owns the site. Some feel there is a conflict of interest in the world's largest skinning site (over 20 million visitors monthly) being operated by a software developer that sells skinning solutions.\n\nPrograms heavily associated with Windows customization include:\n\n\n"}
