{"id": "26712898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26712898", "title": "1966 Soviet submarine global circumnavigation", "text": "1966 Soviet submarine global circumnavigation\n\nThe 1966 Soviet submarine global circumnavigation was announced to be the first submerged around-the-world voyage by a group of Soviet nuclear-powered submarines.\n\nThe voyage was an early example of blue-water operations by the Soviet Navy's nuclear-powered submarine fleet, and it paved the way for future operations during the latter half of the Cold War. The voyage took place nearly six years after the first complete submerged circumnavigation of the world undertaken by the U.S. Navy's nuclear-powered submarine in 1960.\n\nTechnically speaking, this Soviet submerged around-the-world voyage was not a true \"circumnavigation\" since the submarine group went from the Soviet Northern Fleet in the area of the Kola Peninsula to the Soviet Pacific Fleet base in Kamchatka going around South America and consequently did not go completely around the world as did the USS \"Triton\".\n\nThe development of nuclear-powered submarines by the Soviet Navy differed significantly from the approach adopted by the United States Navy. While first generation U.S. Navy nuclear submarines were experimental vessels that could carry out operational missions, the Soviet Navy opted for immediate series production for its Hotel, Echo, and November classes (NATO names), which were known collectively as the HEN classes. While more capable in many respects than early U.S. nuclear submarines, early Soviet nuclear submarines also experienced significant problems with their reactor plants, and remedial action was required to correct these technical deficiencies. Consequently, the Soviet Navy could not deploy any nuclear-powered submarines in support of Operation Anadyr, the Soviet nuclear-armed ballistic missile build-up in Cuba which caused the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962.\n\nThe first submerged circumnavigation by a detachment (Russian: отряд; \"otryad\") of submarines was undertaken by two submarines under the overall command of Rear Admiral Anatoly Ivanovich Sorokin. The detachment departed from the Red Banner Northern Fleet on 1 February 1966. Planning for the mission was credited to Admiral Vladimir Chernavin, the future Commander-in-Chief of the Soviet Navy. The detachment's sailing orders from the Main Naval Staff read in part:\n\nYou will be passing through seas and oceans where Russian sailors have not traveled in more than 100 years. We firmly believe that you will successfully surmount all difficulties and carry the Soviet Navy Flag with honor through three oceans and many seas.\n\nThe detachment consisted of the Project 627 (November class) attack submarine \"K-133\" under the command of Captain 2nd Rank V.T. Vinogradov and the Project 675 (Echo II class) cruise missile submarine \"K-116\" under the command of Captain 2nd Rank L.N. Stolyarov, with \"K-116\" serving as the detachment's flagship. The oceanographic salvage ship \"Polyus\" escorted the submarines during their transit.\n\nThe detachment crossed the Barents Sea, the Norwegian Sea, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Pacific Ocean via the Drake Passage which, according to Academian A.M. Chepurov, was the most dangerous phase of the voyage. Concerns included icebergs and collisions with whales. The ships' personnel participated in line-crossing ceremonies when the detachment crossed the Equator. They also celebrated the landing of the Soviet space probe Venera 3 on the surface of the planet Venus. The detachment completed its circumnavigation by arriving at the Pacific Fleet submarine base in Vilyuchinsk on 26 March 1966, having covered in 52 days. The detachment reportedly encountered numerous U.S. naval vessels during its around the world voyage, but successfully avoided detection.\n\nThe circumnavigation served an immediate political purpose because the mission was dedicated to the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The voyage provided a showcase for the capabilities of the Soviet Navy's nuclear submarine fleet as well as the professionalism of its personnel. Approximately one-third of the detachment personnel were members of Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and the rest were Komsomol members. Scientific studies were carried out during the voyage. Shipboard systems, tactical coordination, communications, and training were also carried out under a variety of climatic conditions. The timing of circumnavigation's completion coincided with discussions regarding the upcoming Five-Year Defense Plan. Minister of Defense Rodion Malinovsky addressed the 23rd Congress on 2 April 1966:\n\nIn recent years, the number of long cruises by our nuclear submarines have increased by 5-fold and they have clearly demonstrated the capability of our glorious sailors to successfully carry out any mission in the ocean expanses from the Arctic to Antarctic. Several days ago an around-the-world cruise by a group of nuclear submarines traveling submerged was successfully concluded.\n\nThe announcement was reportedly \"greeted with stormy applause.\" Admiral Sorokin was awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union from Nikolai Podgorny, the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet. \"K-133\" commander Vinogradov, chief engineer S.P. Samsonov, and three other participants were awarded the titles of Heroes of the Soviet Union. \"The New York Times\" reported the voyage in the following UPI dispatch dated 8 April 1966:\n\nA squadron of nuclear-powered Soviet missile submarines kept a close watch on American planes and ships encountered during a recent around-the-world voyage, Krasnaya Zvezda said today. An officer who made the six-week tour as a special correspondent reported in the Defense Ministry newspaper that American planes and ships were detected several times. \"Every time the necessary measures were taken on board the atomic submarines,\" he said. On one occasion, when his submarine rose to periscope depth, he said, a United States plane was sighted and \"we dived lower so as not to whet the appetites of the antisubmarine forces of the imperialists.\" \"Of course, we had nothing to be afraid of,\" he added. \"We crossed the seas and oceans strictly observing the international rules of navigation\"\n\nThe unnamed naval officer cited in the above article was undoubtedly Captain 2nd Rank G.A. Savichek.\n\nWhile this submerged circumnavigation by a group of submarines received little notice outside of Soviet naval circles, Soviet nuclear submarine operations took on an increasingly blue-water orientation. In 1968, a November-class submarine successfully tracked a carrier task group led by the nuclear aircraft carrier much to the surprise of U.S. naval intelligence. Also, the Soviet Navy deployed its first true nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, the Yankee class, which began its first nuclear deterrence patrol in June 1969.\n\nA detachment of two nuclear submarines, one of them a ballistic missile submarine, subsequently undertook a second around-the-world voyage, departing from the Barents Sea on January 5, 1976, and following a route similar to the one taken in 1966. The detachment commander, Captain 1st Rank Valentin Y. Sokolov, was personally selected by Admiral Sergey Gorshkov, the Commander-in-Chief of the Soviet Navy, to command this detachment. This strategic deterrence patrol included operations in the North Atlantic. During its transit of the South Pacific, the detachment discovered a previously unknown ocean current. The detachment transferred to the Kamchatka Flotilla of the Soviet Pacific Fleet after 70 days at sea.\n\nFor the Soviet Navy itself, its blue-water aspirations culminated in , a 1970 worldwide naval exercise. This feat was replicated with , a three-week follow-up held in April–May 1975. Soviet Defense Minister Andrey Grechko declared:\n\nThe \"Okean\" maneuvers were evidence of the increased naval might of our socialist state, an index of the fact our Navy has become so great and strong that it is capable of executing mission in defense of our state interests over the broad expanses of the World Oceans.\n\nThe impact of this Soviet naval expansion was summarized by Admiral of the Fleet Sir Peter Hill-Norton, RN, the chairman of NATOs military staff committee, who observed: \"The U.S. had never previously faced a global threat to its sea-lane communications from a mix of subsurface, surface and maritime-air naval forces. This is a strategic change of kind, not of degree.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28761228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28761228", "title": "2010 Vladikavkaz bombing", "text": "2010 Vladikavkaz bombing\n\nThe 2010 Vladikavkaz bombing took place at the Central market in Vladikavkaz, North Ossetia–Alania, Russia on 9 September 2010 when a suicide car bomber detonated his explosives killing at least 17 and injuring more than 160.\n\nThe Central market has been a target of terrorist attacks twice: in 1999, when car explosion killed 52 people, and in 2008, when a female suicide bomber detonated bombs attached to herself at the bus stop near the market, claiming lives of 12 people and injuring 41.\n\nA second bomb discovered in a car near the site of the first explosion was successfully defused.\n\nThe remains of the suicide attacker's decapitated corpse were discovered. Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, condemned the attack as \"monstrous\". The prime minister, Vladimir Putin, said the attack was designed to \"sow enmity between our citizens\". He called on Russia's substantial Muslim population to make a \"decisive contribution\" in the fight against extremism.\n\nAt least 4 ethnic Armenians, including 1 Armenian citizen, were among the dead. Armenians were also among the injured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "563532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563532", "title": "Barrel of oil equivalent", "text": "Barrel of oil equivalent\n\nThe barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a unit of energy based on the approximate energy released by burning one barrel (42 U.S. gallons or 158.9873 litres) of crude oil. The BOE is used by oil and gas companies in their financial statements as a way of combining oil and natural gas reserves and production into a single measure, although this energy equivalence does not take into account the lower financial value of energy in the form of gas.\n\nThe U.S. Internal Revenue Service defines a BOE as equal to 5.8 × 10 BTU. (5.8 × 10 BTU equals 6.1178632 × 10 J, about 6.1 GJ (HHV), or .) The value is necessarily approximate as various grades of oil and gas have slightly different heating values. If one considers the lower heating value instead of the higher heating value, the value for one BOE would be approximately 5.4 GJ (see ton of oil equivalent). Typically or 58 CCF are equivalent to one BOE. The USGS gives a figure of 6,000 cubic feet (170 cubic meters) of typical natural gas.\n\nA commonly used multiple of the BOE is the kilo barrel of oil equivalent (kboe or kBOE), which is 1,000BOE. Other common multiples are the million barrels per day, MMboed (or MMBOED, MMboepd), used to measure daily production and consumption, and the BBOe (also BBOE) or billion barrel of oil equivalent, representing 10 barrels of oil, used to measure petroleum reserves.\n\nMetric users may talk of the tonne of oil equivalent (TOE), or more often million TOE (MTOE). Since this is a measurement of weight, any conversion to barrels of oil equivalent depends on the density of the oil in question, as well as the energy content. Typically 1 tonne of oil has a volume of 6.8-7.5 barrels. The United States EIA suggests 1TOE has an average energy value of 39.68 million BTU. \n"}
{"id": "46802134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46802134", "title": "Blue Tunnel Project", "text": "Blue Tunnel Project\n\nBlue Tunnel Project, is an effort to provide large-scale irrigation to arid lands of Konya Plain, in the Turkish heartland, where agriculture and wildlife are under threat.\n\nBlue Tunnel, the most important part of the Konya Plain Project, is the second-largest irrigation scheme of Turkey after the Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP), and aims to provide the region with a yearly 414 million cubic meters of water.\n"}
{"id": "39214946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39214946", "title": "Central Forest Reserves of Uganda", "text": "Central Forest Reserves of Uganda\n\nA Central Forest Reserve is a body of forest or woodland managed by the National Forestry Authority (NFA) under the National Forestry and Tree Planting Act 8/2003. The NFA is mandated to manage all 506 Central Forest Reserves in Uganda. These reserves are part of the protected areas of Uganda. The total area of land covered is 12,657.47 km² or 6.3% of the total land area of Uganda. They compose of natural forest like moist semi-deciduous forests and forest plantations mainly of pine and eucalyptus species. Legal activities done under the NFA are harvesting timber, re-planting and tourism.\n\nList of Central Forest Reserves in Uganda:\n"}
{"id": "54140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54140", "title": "Clathrate hydrate", "text": "Clathrate hydrate\n\nClathrate hydrates, or gas clathrates, gas hydrates, clathrates, hydrates, etc., are crystalline water-based solids physically resembling ice, in which small non-polar molecules (typically gases) or polar molecules with large hydrophobic moieties are trapped inside \"cages\" of hydrogen bonded, frozen water molecules. In other words, clathrate hydrates are clathrate compounds in which the host molecule is water and the guest molecule is typically a gas or liquid. Without the support of the trapped molecules, the lattice structure of hydrate clathrates would collapse into conventional ice crystal structure or liquid water. Most low molecular weight gases, including , , , CO, CH, HS, , , and , as well as some higher hydrocarbons and freons, will form hydrates at suitable temperatures and pressures. Clathrate hydrates are not officially chemical compounds, as the sequestered molecules are never bonded to the lattice. The formation and decomposition of clathrate hydrates are first order phase transitions, not chemical reactions. Their detailed formation and decomposition mechanisms on a molecular level are still not well understood.\nClathrate hydrates were first documented in 1810 by Sir Humphry Davy who found that water was a primary component of what was earlier thought to be solidified chlorine.\n\nClathrates have been found to occur naturally in large quantities. Around 6.4 trillion (6.4×10) tonnes of methane is trapped in deposits of methane clathrate on the deep ocean floor. Such deposits can be found on the Norwegian continental shelf in the northern headwall flank of the Storegga Slide. Clathrates can also exist as permafrost, as at the Mallik gas hydrate site in the Mackenzie Delta of northwestern Canadian Arctic. These natural gas hydrates are seen as a potentially vast energy resource, but an economical extraction method has so far proven elusive. Hydrocarbon clathrates cause problems for the petroleum industry, because they can form inside gas pipelines, often resulting in obstructions. Deep sea deposition of carbon dioxide clathrate has been proposed as a method to remove this greenhouse gas from the atmosphere and control climate change.\n\nClathrates are suspected to occur in large quantities on some outer planets, moons and trans-Neptunian objects, binding gas at fairly high temperatures.\n\nGas hydrates usually form two crystallographic cubic structures: structure (Type) I (named \"sI\") and structure (Type) II (named \"sII\") of space groups formula_1 and formula_2 respectively. Seldom, a third hexagonal structure of space group formula_3 may be observed (Type H).\n\nThe unit cell of Type I consists of 46 water molecules, forming two types of cages – small and large. The unit cell contains two small cages and six large ones. The small cage has the shape of a pentagonal dodecahedron (5) (which is not a regular dodecahedron) and the large one that of a tetradecahedron, specifically a hexagonal truncated trapezohedron (56). Together, they form a version of the Weaire–Phelan structure. Typical guests forming Type I hydrates are CO in carbon dioxide clathrate and CH in methane clathrate.\n\nThe unit cell of Type II consists of 136 water molecules, again forming two types of cages – small and large. In this case there are sixteen small cages and eight large ones in the unit cell. The small cage again has the shape of a pentagonal dodecahedron (5), but the large one is a hexadecahedron (56). Type II hydrates are formed by gases like O and N.\n\nThe unit cell of Type H consists of 34 water molecules, forming three types of cages – two small ones of different types, and one \"huge\". In this case, the unit cell consists of three small cages of type 5, two small ones of type 456 and one huge of type 56. The formation of Type H requires the cooperation of two guest gases (large and small) to be stable. It is the large cavity that allows structure H hydrates to fit in large molecules (e.g. butane, hydrocarbons), given the presence of other smaller help gases to fill and support the remaining cavities. Structure H hydrates were suggested to exist in the Gulf of Mexico. Thermogenically-produced supplies of heavy hydrocarbons are common there.\n\nIro \"et al.\", trying to interpret the nitrogen deficiency in comets, stated most of the conditions for hydrate formation in the protoplanetary nebulae, surrounding the pre-main and main sequence stars were fulfilled, despite the rapid grain growth to meter scale. The key was to provide enough microscopic ice particles exposed to a gaseous environment. Observations of the radiometric continuum of circumstellar discs around formula_4-Tauri and Herbig Ae/Be stars suggest massive dust disks consisting of millimeter-sized grains, which disappear after several million years (e.g.,). A lot of work on detecting water ices in the Universe was done on the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). For instance, broad emission bands of water ice at 43 and 60 μm were found in the disk of the isolated Herbig Ae/Be star HD 100546 in Musca. The one at 43 μm is much weaker than the one at 60 μm, which means the water ice, is located in the outer parts of the disk at temperatures below 50 K. There is also another broad ice feature between 87 and 90 μm, which is very similar to the one in NGC 6302 (the Bug or Butterfly nebula in Scorpius). Crystalline ices were also detected in the proto-planetary disks of ε-Eridani and the isolated Fe star HD 142527 in Lupus. 90% of the ice in the latter was found crystalline at temperature around 50 K. HST demonstrated that relatively old circumstellar disks, as the one around the 5-million-year-old B9.5Ve Herbig Ae/Be star HD 141569A, are dusty. Li & Lunine found water ice there. Knowing the ices usually exist at the outer parts of the proto-planetary nebulae, Hersant \"et al.\" proposed an interpretation of the volatile enrichment, observed in the four giant planets of the Solar System, with respect to the Solar abundances. They assumed the volatiles had been trapped in the form of hydrates and incorporated in the planetesimals flying in the protoplanets’ feeding zones.\n\nKieffer \"et al.\" (2006) hypothesized that the geyser activity in the south polar region of Saturn's moon Enceladus originates from clathrate hydrates, where carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrogen are released when exposed to the vacuum of space through the \"Tiger Stripe\" fractures found in that area. However, subsequent analysis of plume material makes it more likely that the geysers on Enceladus derive from a salty subsurface ocean.\n\nCarbon dioxide clathrate is believed to play a major role in different processes on Mars. Hydrogen clathrate is likely to form in condensation nebulae for gas giants.\n\nNaturally on Earth gas hydrates can be found on the seabed, in ocean sediments, in deep lake sediments (e.g. Lake Baikal), as well as in the permafrost regions. The amount of methane potentially trapped in natural methane hydrate deposits may be significant (10 to 10 cubic metres), which makes them of major interest as a potential energy resource. Catastrophic release of methane from the decomposition of such deposits may lead to a global climate change, because CH is more of an efficient greenhouse gas than CO (see Atmospheric methane). The fast decomposition of such deposits is considered a geohazard, due to its potential to trigger landslides, earthquakes and tsunamis. However, natural gas hydrates do not contain only methane but also other hydrocarbon gases, as well as HS and CO. Air hydrates are frequently observed in polar ice samples.\n\nPingos are common structures in permafrost regions. Similar structures are found in deep water related to methane leakages. Significantly, gas hydrates can even be formed in the absence of a liquid phase. Under that situation, water is dissolved in gas or in liquid hydrocarbon phase.\n\nIn 2017, both Japan and China announced that attempts at large-scale resource extraction of methane hydrates from under the seafloor were successful. However, commercial-scale production remains years away.\n\nThermodynamic conditions favouring hydrate formation are often found in pipelines. This is highly undesirable, because the clathrate crystals might agglomerate and plug the line and cause flow assurance failure and damage valves and instrumentation. The results can range from flow reduction to equipment damage.\n\nHydrates have a strong tendency to agglomerate and to adhere to the pipe wall and thereby plug the pipeline. Once formed, they can be decomposed by increasing the temperature and/or decreasing the pressure. Even under these conditions, the clathrate dissociation is a slow process.\n\nTherefore, preventing hydrate formation appears to be the key to the problem. A hydrate prevention philosophy could typically be based on three levels of security, listed in order of priority:\n\nThe actual philosophy would depend on operational circumstances such as pressure, temperature, type of flow (gas, liquid, presences of water etc.)\n\nWhen operating within a set of parameters where hydrates could be formed, there are still ways to avoid their formation. Altering the gas composition by adding chemicals can lower the hydrate formation temperature and/or delay their formation. Two options generally exist:\n\nThe most common thermodynamic inhibitors are methanol, monoethylene glycol (MEG), and diethylene glycol (DEG), commonly referred to as glycol. All may be recovered and recirculated, but the economics of methanol recovery is not favourable in most cases. MEG is preferred over DEG for applications where the temperature is expected to be −10 °C or lower due to high viscosity at low temperatures. Triethylene glycol (TEG) has too low vapour pressure to be suited as an inhibitor injected into a gas stream. More methanol is lost in the gas phase when compared to MEG or DEG.\n\nThe use of kinetic inhibitors and anti-agglomerants in actual field operations is a new and evolving technology. It requires extensive tests and optimisation to the actual system. While kinetic inhibitors work by slowing down the kinetics of the nucleation, anti-agglomerants do not stop the nucleation, but stop the agglomeration (sticking together) of gas hydrate crystals. These two kinds of inhibitors are also known as low dosage hydrate inhibitors, because they require much smaller concentrations than the conventional thermodynamic inhibitors. Kinetic inhibitors, which do not require water and hydrocarbon mixture to be effective, are usually polymers or copolymers and anti-agglomerants (requires water and hydrocarbon mixture) are polymers or zwitterionic — usually ammonium and COOH — surfactants being both attracted to hydrates and hydrocarbons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24990787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24990787", "title": "Coal Industry Nationalisation Act 1946", "text": "Coal Industry Nationalisation Act 1946\n\nThe Coal Industry Nationalisation Act of 1946 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It received Royal Assent on 12 July 1946, and provided for the nationalisation of the entire British coal industry. The Act established the National Coal Board which acted as the managing authority for coal mining activities. This was created due to the government needing to tackle \"idleness\" after the Second World War.\n"}
{"id": "54686533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54686533", "title": "Cross Slip", "text": "Cross Slip\n\nCross slip is the process when a screw dislocation moves from one slip plane to another. As this kind of dislocation (Unlike edge and mixed dislocations) doesn't have a unique glide plane, a pure screw segment is free to move from one slip plane to another if it contains the direction of burgers vector. In face centered cubic metals dislocation can move from one {111} type plane to another and In body centered cubic metals as the slip plane is less well defined, a dislocation with b=0.5<11> can glide on {110} planes or {211} planes. The cross slip of moving dislocations can easily be seen by TEMs.\n\n"}
{"id": "35568637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35568637", "title": "Devoré", "text": "Devoré\n\nDevoré (also called burnout) is a fabric technique particularly used on velvets, where a mixed-fibre material undergoes a chemical process to dissolve the cellulose fibers to create a semi-transparent pattern against more solidly woven fabric. The same technique can also be applied to textiles other than velvet, such as lace or the fabrics in burnout t-shirts.\n\nDevoré comes from the French verb \"dévorer\", meaning literally to devour.\n\nBurnout fabrics are thought to have originated in France, possibly as a cheap alternative to lace that could be created using caustic paste on fabric. The commercial chemical process used in fashion garments was developed in Lyon at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe technique was popularised in the 1920s – typically used on evening gowns and shawls – and revived in the 1980s and '90s, notably by Jasper Conran on theatrical costumes and then evening wear and by Georgina von Etzdorf on scarves.\n\nConran is credited with popularising devoré, introducing it in 1989 and taking the technique forward in the 1990s in his main fashion line. He refined his techniques on theatrical costumes; in the 1992 production of \"My Fair Lady\" directed by Simon Callow, burnout fabrics were heavily used for the costumes of Eliza Doolittle and street vendors. Conran's devoré technique also featured in David Bintley's 1993 Royal Ballet production of \"Tombeaux\", where it was used to create the two-tone velvet tutu worn by Darcey Bussell and the corps de ballet costumes. In 1994, it featured in the Scottish Ballet production of \"The Sleeping Beauty\", where Conran said it produced better results for lower cost than appliqué techniques.\n\nConran's most elaborate devoré fashion pieces – which were oven baked as part of the process – were time-consuming to produce and expensive to buy; in 1993, a panelled evening skirt retailed at £572 and an acid-treated shirt cost £625.\n\nEstablished as a Wiltshire textile printing workshop in 1981, Georgina von Etzdorf's primary focus was on creating painterly effects on fabric. Credited with popularising the velvet scarf, she introduced devoré to the range in 1993 – having experimented with printed velvets from 1985.\n\nDevoré techniques use blended fabrics which combine protein-based fibres such as silk with cellulose-based fibres such as viscose, cotton, or rayon. In order to create the 'burnout' pattern, a chemical gel containing sodium hydrogen sulphate is applied to the fabric in patterns, dissolving away the cellulose-based fibres and leaving behind the protein-based fibres, which are not affected by the chemical. The chemical gel may be applied either by printing or by hand painting on the fabric.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "564961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564961", "title": "Dilaton", "text": "Dilaton\n\nIn particle physics, the hypothetical dilaton particle, and scalar field, appears in theories with extra dimensions when the volume of the compactified dimensions varies. It appears as a radion in Kaluza–Klein theory's compactifications of extra dimensions. A particle of a scalar field Φ, a scalar field that always comes with gravity, and in a dynamical field the resulting dilaton particle parallels the graviton. For comparison, in standard general relativity, Newton's constant, or equivalently the Planck mass is a constant.\n\nIn Kaluza–Klein theories, after dimensional reduction, the effective Planck mass varies as some power of the volume of compactified space. This is why volume can turn out as a dilaton in the lower-dimensional effective theory.\n\nAlthough string theory naturally incorporates Kaluza–Klein theory that first introduced the dilaton, perturbative string theories such as type I string theory, type II string theory, and heterotic string theory already contain the dilaton in the maximal number of 10 dimensions. However, M-theory in 11 dimensions does not include the dilaton in its spectrum unless compactified. The dilaton in type IIA string theory parallels the radion of M-theory compactified over a circle, and the dilaton in string theory parallels the radion for the Hořava–Witten model. (For more on the M-theory origin of the dilaton, see ).\n\nIn string theory there is also a dilaton in the worldsheet CFT - two-dimensional conformal field theory. The exponential of its vacuum expectation value determines the coupling constant \"g\" and the Euler characteristic as for compact worldsheets by the Gauss–Bonnet theorem, where the genus \"g\" counts the number of handles and thus the number of loops or string interactions described by a specific worldsheet.\n\nTherefore, the dynamic variable coupling constant in string theory contrasts the quantum field theory where it is constant. As long as supersymmetry is unbroken, such scalar fields can take arbitrary values moduli). However, supersymmetry breaking usually creates a potential energy for the scalar fields and the scalar fields localize near a minimum whose position should in principle calculate in string theory.\n\nThe dilaton acts like a Brans–Dicke scalar, with the effective Planck scale depending upon \"both\" the string scale and the dilaton field.\n\nIn supersymmetry the superpartner of the dilaton or here the dilatino, combines with the axion to form a complex scalar field .\n\nThe dilaton-gravity action is\nThis is more general than Brans–Dicke in vacuum in that we have a dilaton potential.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28021368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28021368", "title": "Doubochinski's pendulum", "text": "Doubochinski's pendulum\n\nDoubochinski’s pendulum is a classical oscillator interacting with a high-frequency field in such a way that the oscillator takes on a discrete set of stable regimes of oscillation, each at a frequency near to the proper frequency of the oscillator, but each with a distinct, \"quantized\" amplitude.\n\nA simple demonstration apparatus consists of a mechanical pendulum interacting with a magnetic field (Fig. 1).\n\nWhen released at any arbitrary starting position, the pendulum’s motion evolves into one of a discrete set of stable oscillation modes, having sharply differing amplitudes, but approximately the same period of oscillation – close to the pendulum’s undisturbed period (Fig. 2). In each such mode, the energy lost by friction in the pendulum’s motion, is compensated by an average net energy transfer from the oscillating magnetic field, in a self-regulating manner.\n\nThe stability of each amplitude-mode is maintained by a constant self-adjustment of the phase relationship between the pendulum and the high-frequency field. Through its interaction with the field, the pendulum extracts the amount of energy needed to compensate its frictional losses for a given period. The pendulum compensates for the changes in the strength of the magnetic field,\n\nby slightly shifting the phase of its entry into the zone of interaction, while maintaining almost exactly the same amplitude and frequency. The values of the quantized amplitudes – and the corresponding energies of the quantized modes – are essentially independent of the strength of the alternating current supplied to the electromagnet, over a very large range. The higher the applied frequency, the larger the array of stable modes that become accessible to the pendulum (See Table 1).\n"}
{"id": "20490893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20490893", "title": "Electricity Regulatory Authority", "text": "Electricity Regulatory Authority\n\nThe Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) is a government agency that regulates, licenses, and supervises the generation, transmission, distribution, sale, export, and importation of electrical energy in Uganda, the third-largest economy in the East African Community.\n\nThe offices of the ERA are located in the ERA House at 15 Shimoni Road, Nakasero, Kampala Central Division, in the country's capital city. The coordinates of ERA House are 0°19'20.0\"N, 32°35'13.0\"E (Latitude:0.322222; Longitude:32.586944).\n\nERA was established in 2000, in accordance with the Electricity Act of 1999, as an agency of the Uganda Ministry of Energy, Oil and Mineral Development. This parastatal is governed by a five-member board, also known as the \"Authority\". The day-to-day affairs of the agency are supervised by the chief executive officer. Organizations and committees within the purview of the ERA include the Rural Electrification Board and the Electricity Consumer Committees.\n\n"}
{"id": "8702760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8702760", "title": "Ercol", "text": "Ercol\n\nErcol is the name of a British furniture manufacturer. The firm dates back to 1920, when it was established in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, as Furniture Industries by Lucian Ercolani (1888–1976).\n\nIn 1944, Ercol was contracted by the government Board of Trade to produce 100,000 low-cost Windsor chairs – chairs with a bentwood frame and an arched back supporting delicate spindles. For the order to be a commercial success, Ercol perfected the steam bending of wood in large quantities. The wood selected was English elm – a wood previously thought impossible to bend because it distorted. Ercol's innovation meant the chair could be assembled from fourteen pre-formed components, and mechanisation meant that a chair could be made every twenty seconds.\n\nIn 1946, Ercol exhibited its bentwood furniture at the Britain Can Make It exhibition, held at the Victoria and Albert Museum, London. In 1947, the first production-line Windsor chair, and other pieces from the range of Windsor furniture, went on sale. Ercol's mass-produced furniture found a ready market in post-war Britain, which demanded smaller pieces with simpler lines than their chunky pre-war counterparts. Ercol furniture was exhibited at the 1951 Festival of Britain, as it represented the latest style and fashion in furniture design and manufacture.\n\nIn 2002 Ercol moved to a new purpose-built facility in Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire, where it produces furniture made from North American elm and European ash, beech, oak and walnut from naturally regenerative forests. This facility has won a number of awards for its architecture, design and environmental features. The building's heat and hot water is provided from wood waste, whilst the company does not use solvent-based stains and lacquers, instead using the more environmentally friendly water-based versions. Ercol sources its fabrics from mills in Italy and Belgium, and offers a choice of over 100 different fabrics on its upholstery. Ercol upholstery, with its solid wood frames, can generally have the cushions replaced when they wear out, prolonging the life of the suite. It offers a reCover service to supply replacement cushions.\n\nErcol's ranges of upholstery, dining, cabinet and occasional furniture are on sale through a network of retailers in the UK, Europe, Japan and Korea and directly to other territories, whilst a range of ex-display and factory seconds are available from its factory outlet in Princes Risborough. Ercol's Gina recliner was the first piece of domestic furniture to be awarded the Ergonomics Excellence award by FIRA, the UK furniture industry's independent furniture test house. In 2008 Ercol launched two-bedroom ranges – Savona and Paladina – taking it back into the bedroom.\n\nErcol has been awarded the Manufacturing Guildmark by the Worshipful Company of Furniture Makers in recognition of its commitment to design and to quality of manufacture. Ercol's Treviso range was shortlisted for the annual Wood Awards held in the autumn of 2009. In 2010 Ercol was awarded two Design Guild Marks by the Worshipful Company of Furniture Makers out of only twenty issued for the year. The Design Guild Mark is issued by Worshipful Company of Furniture Makers – the industry's guild. The guild mark is awarded \"for excellence in the design of furniture. It will mark and reward the work of the finest designers working in Britain.\" The first award was in recognition of the designs of the company's founder, Lucian Ercolani, embodied in the Originals range. The Originals are a small collection of pieces reissued from Ercol's back catalogue. The Old Man, as he is affectionately known within the company, trained as a furniture designer at Shoreditch Technical Institute, making his first piece of furniture in 1907. The Originals collection reflected a break from the heavy, ornate pre-war styles towards a new clean lined, simple elegance. They were first launched in the late 1950s.\n\nAs well as its presence in UK retailers' stores, and its own showroom at its Princes Risborough facility, Ercol attends a number of trade and consumer exhibitions and holds a number of events at its showroom. In 2009 Ercol will be exhibiting at the design show Trent London which is open to the public and in January 2010 at the national trade show at the NEC, Birmingham Interiors Birmingham.\n\nErcol partnered design magazine Wallpaper for one of the major installations at the 2009 London Design Festival – a modern interpretation of the Chair Arch, to be given pride of place in the Central Courtyard of the V&A Museum in September 2009. In Victorian times towns would mark a particularly special occasion, such as the visit of a VIP, with an arch adorned with the town's main commodity. The arch would then form the centre of festivities. In 1877 High Wycombe, famous for its chair manufacturing, built a chair arch for the visit of Queen Victoria to Disraeli at his home, Hughenden Manor. The idea originated with the Town Council, who deputised it to one of their members, Walter Skull, to organise through the Chair Manufacturers Association. Just over fifty years later his company, Walter Skull & Son, would become part of Ercol. Later arches were erected for the visit of Queen Elizabeth II in 1962 and for the Millennium. The Ercol-Wallpaper arch will though be dramatically different. Designed by Martino Gamper, it comprises two overlapping spans, all of the same chair – Ercol's stacking chair. After showing at the V&A it moved in 2010 to the V&A Museum of Childhood]as part of their Sit Down! exhibition of children's seating through the years.\n\nAlso as part of the London Design Festival Ercol also took part in The Dock. Curated by designer Tom Dixon, Situated at The Portobello Dock, the exhibition was over , spanning the Grand Union Canal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17717030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17717030", "title": "Exploding cigar", "text": "Exploding cigar\n\nAn exploding cigar is a variety of cigar that explodes shortly after being lit. Such cigars are normally packed with a minute chemical explosive charge near the lighting end or with a non-chemical device that ruptures the cigar when exposed to heat. The customary intended purpose of exploding cigars is as a form of hostile practical joke, rather than to cause lasting physical harm to the butt of the joke. Nevertheless, the high risk of unintended injuries from their use caused a decline in their manufacture and sale.\n\nAlthough far rarer than their prank cousins, exploding cigars used as a means to kill or attempt to kill targets in real life has been claimed, and is well represented as a fictional plot device. The most famous case concerning the intentionally deadly variety was an alleged plot by the United States Central Intelligence Agency in the 1960s to assassinate Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Notable real-life incidents involving the non-lethal ilk include an exploding cigar purportedly given by Ulysses S. Grant to an acquaintance and a dust-up between Turkish military officers and Ernest Hemingway after he pranked one of them with an exploding cigar.\n\nDuring the early- to mid-20th century, exploding cigars were a popular practical joke device, frequently advertised and mentioned in newspapers of the era. Despite their popularity, the history of the exploding cigar's development is apparently not well documented, including how, where and when they first appeared. The largest manufacturer and purveyor of exploding cigars in the United States during the middle of the 20th century was the S. S. Adams Company, which, according to \"The Saturday Evening Post\", made more exploding cigars and other gag novelty items as of 1946 than its next eleven competitors combined.\n\nThe company was founded by Soren Sorensen Adams, dubbed \"king of the professional pranksters\", who invented and patented many common gag novelties such as sneezing powder, itching powder, the dribble glass and the joy buzzer. The largest New York–based manufacturer of exploding cigars was Richard Appel, a German refugee from Nuremberg, who in or about 1940 opened a gag novelty factory on Manhattan's Lower East Side.\n\nBy the time exploding cigars were being turned out by manufacturers such as Adams and Appel, the chemical explosive variety had fallen out of favor. According to Adams, the large-scale switch to a non-chemical device occurred in approximately 1915 in the aftermath of a death caused by a homemade exploding cigar rigged with dynamite. Though exploding cigars were not normally rigged with dynamite but with explosive caps using a less powerful incendiary, following the incident, a number of U.S. states banned the product altogether. The replacement for chemical explosives was a metal spring mechanism, bound with cord—as the victim puffed away, the cord burned through, causing the device to spring open, thus rupturing the cigar's end.\n\nHowever, the decline in the use and advertisement of the exploding cigar was neither complete, nor permanent, and they can be obtained worldwide. In the United States, makers include Don Osvaldo and Hawkins Joke Shop. However, their availability in the USA is limited, as some states, such as Massachusetts, have banned their sale entirely.\n\nPrank exploding cigars have caused many injuries over their history. For example, in 1902 one Edward Weinschreider sued a cigar shop for an exploding cigar which burned his hand so badly three of his fingers had to be amputated. As has been observed by one legal scholar, \"[t]he utility of the exploding cigar is so low and the risk of injury so high as to warrant a conclusion that the cigar is defective and should not have been marketed at all.\" Laws have been enacted banning the sale of exploding cigars entirely, such as Chapter 178 of Massachusetts' Acts and Resolves, passed by its legislature in 1967.\n\nBoth prank and intentionally deadly exploding cigars have been featured in numerous works of fiction, spanning many forms of media including literature, film, comics books, cartoons and others. A well-known use of the exploding cigar in literature, for example, appears in Thomas Pynchon's 1973 novel, \"Gravity's Rainbow\". In it, the character Etzel Ölsch symbolically betrays his death wish by eagerly smoking a cigar he knows to be of the prank explosive variety. Other book examples include Robert Coover's 1977 novel, \"The Public Burning\", where a fictionalized Richard Nixon hands an exploding cigar to Uncle Sam, and Sherburne James' \"Death's Clenched Fist\" (1982), in which a Tammany Hall politico of the 1890s is murdered with an exploding cigar.\n\nFilm examples include Cecil B. DeMille's 1921 romance \"Fool's Paradise\", wherein the main character is blinded by an exploding cigar; Laurel and Hardy's \"Great Guns\" (1941), which features a gag in which tobacco is replaced by gunpowder; the Elke Sommer vehicle, \"Deadlier Than the Male\" (1967), where a murder by exploding cigar is a key plot element; in The Beatles' 1968 animated feature film, \"Yellow Submarine\", where an exploding cigar is used to rebuff a psychedelic boxing monster; the 1984 comedy \"Top Secret!\", in which Omar Sharif's British secret agent character is pranked with an exploding cigar by a blindman; and in the 2005 film \"V for Vendetta\", where the main antagonist's cigar is swapped with an exploding one during a comedy skit.\n\nAppearance of exploding cigars in the Warner Bros. cartoon franchises, Merrie Melodies and Looney Tunes was fairly common, often coupled with the explosion resulting in the pranked character appearing in blackface. Some examples include: \"Bacall to Arms\" (1942), wherein an animated Humphrey Bogart gets zapped by an exploding cigar leaving him in blackface, 1949's \"Mississippi Hare\", where the character, 'Colonel Shuffle' likewise ends up in blackface after the explosion, 1952's \"Rabbit's Kin\", in which Pete Puma offers Bugs Bunny an exploding cigar (true to form, Bugs Bunny turns the tables on the hapless feline, placing the cigar in Pete's mouth after he is dazed and lighting it with expected results), and 1964's \"Dr. Devil and Mr. Hare\", where the Tasmanian Devil successfully gets Bugs Bunny to smoke an exploding cigar.\n\nOther media examples include television appearances such as when Peter Falk's \"Columbo\" must solve an industrial magnate's death by exploding cigar in the episode \"Short Fuse\" (1972), in a season four episode of the United States television, CBS crime drama, \"\" titled \"\", wherein the forensic team investigate the death of a man killed by an exploding cigar, and in a 1966 episode of \"The Avengers\" entitled \"A Touch of Brimstone\"; in video games such as \"Day of the Tentacle\" where the player can offer George Washington an exploding cigar; and as a stock device by the Joker in Batman comic books. For example, in \"Batman\" #251 (1973) entitled \"The Joker's Five-Way Revenge\", an exploding cigar containing nitro-glycerin is used by the Joker to kill one of the members of his gang.\n\nAccording to a 1932 Associated Press story, U.S. President Ulysses S. Grant gave Horace Norton, the founder of a defunct college in Chicago, an exploding cigar soon after being introduced to him, but the \"joke\" wasn't revealed until many years later.\n\nAccording to the story, unaware of the nature of the gift, Norton saved the cigar, keeping it on display in his college's museum. Years later, when the school was shutting its doors for good, the alumni thought it would be a fitting gesture to smoke the cigar at the college's annual reunion. The honor was given to Winstead Norton, Horace's grandson. During the sober speech he was presenting, Winstead lit the cigar, and after two puffs, it exploded. A 1952 news report contradicts one detail, holding that the explosion ultimately occurred at a family reunion rather than the alumni affair noted.\n\nThe tale of \"Grant's cigar\" has unquestionably been embellished over time. The possibility exists that the tale is a hoax or urban legend or that the cigar was tampered with by someone after Grant's purported presentation.\n\nReportedly, Ernest Hemingway, urged on by a group of journalists with whom he was drinking at the Palace Hotel bar in Rapallo, Italy, presented an exploding cigar to one of four bodyguards of Turkish general İsmet İnönü. When the cigar \"went off\", all four guards drew their guns and aimed at Hemingway. He apparently escaped without any grievous bodily injury.\n\nIn the late 1950s under Dwight D. Eisenhower's presidential administration and in the early 1960s under John F. Kennedy's, the CIA had been brainstorming and implementing plots to assassinate Fidel Castro, going as far as enlisting the help of American Mafia leaders such as Johnny Roselli and Santo Trafficante, Jr. to assist in carrying out their plans. Many assassination ideas were floated by the CIA in the covert operation which was dubbed \"Operation Mongoose.\" The most infamous was the CIA's alleged plot to capitalize on Castro's well known love of cigars by slipping into his supply a very real and lethal \"exploding cigar.\" A November 4, 1967 \"Saturday Evening Post\" article reported that during Castro's visit to the United Nations in 1966 a CIA agent approached New York City police chief inspector Michael J. Murphy with a plan to get Castro to smoke an exploding cigar.\n\nWhile numerous sources state the exploding cigar plot as fact, at least one source asserts it to be simply a myth, and another, mere supermarket tabloid fodder. Another suggests that the story does have its origins in the CIA, but that it was never seriously proposed by them as a plot. Rather, the plot was made up by the CIA as an intentionally \"silly\" idea to feed to those questioning them about their plans for Castro, in order to deflect scrutiny from more serious areas of inquiry.\n\nWhether true or not, the CIA's exploding cigar assassination plot inspired the cover of the October 1963 issue (#82) of Mad Magazine. Conceived by Al Jaffee, the cover (\"pictured at right\") bears the headline, \"You'll Get a BANG out of this issue of Mad Magazine\", and features a painting by Norman Mingo depicting Castro in the act of lighting a cigar wrapped with a cigar band on which is drawn Alfred E. Neuman with his fingers plugging his ears, awaiting the explosion. An exploding cigar is also featured on the poster for the Channel 4 British Documentary, \"638 Ways to Kill Castro\", which shows Castro with a cigar in his mouth that has a fuse projecting from the end and a lit match approaching. An exploding cigar was tested on a season 2 episode of Deadliest Warrior, KGB vs. CIA. The cigar completely destroyed the upper and lower jaw of a gel head but was determined to be very unreliable due to its timed fuse and small explosive payload.\n"}
{"id": "10192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10192", "title": "Explosive", "text": "Explosive\n\nAn explosive material, also called an explosive, is a reactive substance that contains a great amount of potential energy that can produce an explosion if released suddenly, usually accompanied by the production of light, heat, sound, and pressure. An explosive charge is a measured quantity of explosive material, which may be composed of a single ingredient or a combination of two or more.\n\nThe potential energy stored in an explosive material may, for example, be\n\nExplosive materials may be categorized by the speed at which they expand. Materials that detonate (the front of the chemical reaction moves faster through the material than the speed of sound) are said to be \"high explosives\" and materials that deflagrate are said to be \"low explosives\". Explosives may also be categorized by their sensitivity. Sensitive materials that can be initiated by a relatively small amount of heat or pressure are primary explosives and materials that are relatively insensitive are secondary or tertiary explosives.\n\nA wide variety of chemicals can explode; a smaller number are manufactured specifically for the purpose of being used as explosives. The remainder are too dangerous, sensitive, toxic, expensive, unstable, or prone to decomposition or degradation over short time spans.\n\nIn contrast, some materials are merely combustible or flammable if they burn without exploding.\n\nThe distinction, however, is not razor-sharp. Certain materials—dusts, powders, gases, or volatile organic liquids—may be simply combustible or flammable under ordinary conditions, but become explosive in specific situations or forms, such as dispersed airborne clouds, or confinement or sudden release.\n\nAt its root, the history of chemical explosives lies in the history of gunpowder. During the Tang Dynasty in the 9th century, Taoist Chinese alchemists were eagerly trying to find the elixir of immortality. In the process, they stumbled upon the explosive invention of gunpowder made from coal, saltpeter, and sulfur in 1044. Gunpowder was the first form of chemical explosives and by 1161, the Chinese were using explosives for the first time in warfare. The Chinese would incorporate explosives fired from bamboo or bronze tubes known as bamboo fire crackers. The Chinese also used inserted rats from inside the bamboo fire crackers to fire toward the enemy, creating great psychological ramifications – scaring enemy soldiers away and causing cavalry units to go wild.\n\nThough early thermal weapons, such as Greek fire, have existed since ancient times, the first widely used explosive in warfare and mining was black powder, invented in 9th century in China by Song Chinese alchemists. This material was sensitive to water, and it produced copious amounts of dark smoke. The first useful explosive stronger than black powder was nitroglycerin, developed in 1847. Since nitroglycerin is a liquid and highly unstable, it was replaced by nitrocellulose, trinitrotoluene (TNT) in 1863, smokeless powder, dynamite in 1867 and gelignite (the latter two being sophisticated stabilized preparations of nitroglycerin rather than chemical alternatives, both invented by Alfred Nobel). World War I saw the adoption of TNT in artillery shells. World War II saw an extensive use of new explosives (see List of explosives used during World War II). In turn, these have largely been replaced by more powerful explosives such as C-4 and PETN. However, C-4 and PETN react with metal and catch fire easily, yet unlike TNT, C-4 and PETN are waterproof and malleable.\n\nThe largest commercial application of explosives is mining. Whether the mine is on the surface or is buried underground, the detonation or deflagration of either a high or low explosive in a confined space can be used to liberate a fairly specific sub-volume of a brittle material in a much larger volume of the same or similar material. The mining industry tends to use nitrate-based explosives such as emulsions of fuel oil and ammonium nitrate solutions, mixtures of ammonium nitrate prills (fertilizer pellets) and fuel oil (ANFO) and gelatinous suspensions or slurries of ammonium nitrate and combustible fuels.\n\nIn Materials Science and Engineering, explosives are used in cladding (explosion welding). A thin plate of some material is placed atop a thick layer of a different material, both layers typically of metal. Atop the thin layer is placed an explosive. At one end of the layer of explosive, the explosion is initiated. The two metallic layers are forced together at high speed and with great force. The explosion spreads from the initiation site throughout the explosive. Ideally, this produces a metallurgical bond between the two layers.\n\nAs the length of time the shock wave spends at any point is small, we can see mixing of the two metals and their surface chemistries, through some fraction of the depth, and they tend to be mixed in some way. It is possible that some fraction of the surface material from either layer eventually gets ejected when the end of material is reached. Hence, the mass of the now \"welded\" bilayer, may be less than the sum of the masses of the two initial layers.\n\nThere are applications where a shock wave, and electrostatics, can result in high velocity projectiles.\n\nAn explosion is a type of spontaneous chemical reaction that, once initiated, is driven by both a large exothermic change (great release of heat) and a large positive entropy change (great quantities of gases are released) in going from reactants to products, thereby constituting a thermodynamically favorable process in addition to one that propagates very rapidly. Thus, explosives are substances that contain a large amount of energy stored in chemical bonds. The energetic stability of the gaseous products and hence their generation comes from the formation of strongly bonded species like carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and (di)nitrogen, which contain strong double and triple bonds having bond strengths of nearly 1 MJ/mole. Consequently, most commercial explosives are organic compounds containing -NO, -ONO and -NHNO groups that, when detonated, release gases like the aforementioned (e.g., nitroglycerin, TNT, HMX, PETN, nitrocellulose).\n\nAn explosive is classified as a low or high explosive according to its rate of combustion: low explosives burn rapidly (or deflagrate), while high explosives detonate. While these definitions are distinct, the problem of precisely measuring rapid decomposition makes practical classification of explosives difficult.\n\nTraditional explosives mechanics is based on the shock-sensitive rapid oxidation of carbon and hydrogen to carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and water in the form of steam. Nitrates typically provide the required oxygen to burn the carbon and hydrogen fuel. High explosives tend to have the oxygen, carbon and hydrogen contained in one organic molecule, and less sensitive explosives like ANFO are combinations of fuel (carbon and hydrogen fuel oil) and ammonium nitrate. A sensitizer such as powdered aluminum may be added to an explosive to increase the energy of the detonation. Once detonated, the nitrogen portion of the explosive formulation emerges as nitrogen gas and toxic nitric oxides.\n\nThe chemical decomposition of an explosive may take years, days, hours, or a fraction of a second. The slower processes of decomposition take place in storage and are of interest only from a stability standpoint. Of more interest are the other two rapid forms besides decomposition: deflagration and detonation.\n\nIn deflagration, decomposition of the explosive material is propagated by a flame front which moves slowly through the explosive material at speeds less than the speed of sound within the substance (usually below 1000 m/s) in contrast to detonation, which occurs at speeds greater than the speed of sound. Deflagration is a characteristic of low explosive material.\n\nThis term is used to describe an explosive phenomenon whereby the decomposition is propagated by an explosive shock wave traversing the explosive material at speeds greater than the speed of sound within the substance. The shock front is capable of passing through the high explosive material at supersonic speeds, typically thousands of metres per second.\n\nIn addition to chemical explosives, there are a number of more exotic explosive materials, and exotic methods of causing explosions. Examples include nuclear explosives, and abruptly heating a substance to a plasma state with a high-intensity laser or electric arc.\n\nLaser- and arc-heating are used in laser detonators, exploding-bridgewire detonators, and exploding foil initiators, where a shock wave and then detonation in conventional chemical explosive material is created by laser- or electric-arc heating. Laser and electric energy are not currently used in practice to generate most of the required energy, but only to initiate reactions.\n\nTo determine the suitability of an explosive substance for a particular use, its physical properties must first be known. The usefulness of an explosive can only be appreciated when the properties and the factors affecting them are fully understood. Some of the more important characteristics are listed below:\n\nSensitivity refers to the ease with which an explosive can be ignited or detonated, i.e., the amount and intensity of shock, friction, or heat that is required. When the term sensitivity is used, care must be taken to clarify what kind of sensitivity is under discussion. The relative sensitivity of a given explosive to impact may vary greatly from its sensitivity to friction or heat. Some of the test methods used to determine sensitivity relate to:\n\nSpecific explosives (usually but not always highly sensitive on one or more of the three above axes) may be idiosyncratically sensitive to such factors as pressure drop, acceleration, the presence of sharp edges or rough surfaces, incompatible materials, or even—in rare cases—nuclear or electromagnetic radiation. These factors present special hazards that may rule out any practical utility.\n\nSensitivity is an important consideration in selecting an explosive for a particular purpose. The explosive in an armor-piercing projectile must be relatively insensitive, or the shock of impact would cause it to detonate before it penetrated to the point desired. The explosive lenses around nuclear charges are also designed to be highly insensitive, to minimize the risk of accidental detonation.\n\nThe index of the capacity of an explosive to be initiated into detonation in a sustained manner. It is defined by the power of the detonator which is certain to prime the explosive to a sustained and continuous detonation. Reference is made to the Sellier-Bellot scale that consists of a series of 10 detonators, from n. 1 to n. 10, each of which corresponds to an increasing charge weight. In practice, most of the explosives on the market today are sensitive to an n. 8 detonator, where the charge corresponds to 2 grams of mercury fulminate.\n\nThe velocity with which the reaction process propagates in the mass of the explosive. Most commercial mining explosives have detonation velocities ranging from 1800 m/s to 8000 m/s. Today, velocity of detonation can be measured with accuracy. Together with density it is an important element influencing the yield of the energy transmitted for both atmospheric over-pressure and ground acceleration. By definition, a \"low explosive,\" such as black powder, or smokeless gunpowder has a burn rate of 171–631 m/s. In contrast, a \"high explosive,\" whether a primary, such as detonating cord, or a secondary, such as TNT or C-4 has a significantly higher burn rate.\n\nStability is the ability of an explosive to be stored without deterioration.\n\nThe following factors affect the stability of an explosive:\n\nThe term power or performance as applied to an explosive refers to its ability to do work. In practice it is defined as the explosive's ability to accomplish what is intended in the way of energy delivery (i.e., fragment projection, air blast, high-velocity jet, underwater shock and bubble energy, etc.). Explosive power or performance is evaluated by a tailored series of tests to assess the material for its intended use. Of the tests listed below, cylinder expansion and air-blast tests are common to most testing programs, and the others support specific applications.\n\nIn addition to strength, explosives display a second characteristic, which is their shattering effect or brisance (from the French meaning to \"break\"), which is distinguished and separate from their total work capacity. This characteristic is of practical importance in determining the effectiveness of an explosion in fragmenting shells, bomb casings, grenades, and the like. The rapidity with which an explosive reaches its peak pressure (power) is a measure of its brisance. Brisance values are primarily employed in France and Russia.\n\nThe sand crush test is commonly employed to determine the relative brisance in comparison to TNT. No test is capable of directly comparing the explosive properties of two or more compounds; it is important to examine the data from several such tests (sand crush, trauzl, and so forth) in order to gauge relative brisance. True values for comparison require field experiments.\n\nDensity of loading refers to the mass of an explosive per unit volume. Several methods of loading are available, including pellet loading, cast loading, and press loading, the choice being determined by the characteristics of the explosive. Dependent upon the method employed, an average density of the loaded charge can be obtained that is within 80–99% of the theoretical maximum density of the explosive. High load density can reduce sensitivity by making the mass more resistant to internal friction. However, if density is increased to the extent that individual crystals are crushed, the explosive may become more sensitive. Increased load density also permits the use of more explosive, thereby increasing the power of the warhead. It is possible to compress an explosive beyond a point of sensitivity, known also as \"dead-pressing\", in which the material is no longer capable of being reliably initiated, if at all.\n\nVolatility is the readiness with which a substance vaporizes. Excessive volatility often results in the development of pressure within rounds of ammunition and separation of mixtures into their constituents. Volatility affects the chemical composition of the explosive such that a marked reduction in stability may occur, which results in an increase in the danger of handling.\n\nThe introduction of water into an explosive is highly undesirable since it reduces the sensitivity, strength, and velocity of detonation of the explosive. Hygroscopicity is a measure of a material's moisture-absorbing tendencies. Moisture affects explosives adversely by acting as an inert material that absorbs heat when vaporized, and by acting as a solvent medium that can cause undesired chemical reactions. Sensitivity, strength, and velocity of detonation are reduced by inert materials that reduce the continuity of the explosive mass. When the moisture content evaporates during detonation, cooling occurs, which reduces the temperature of reaction. Stability is also affected by the presence of moisture since moisture promotes decomposition of the explosive and, in addition, causes corrosion of the explosive's metal container.\n\nExplosives considerably differ from one another as to their behavior in the presence of water. Gelatin dynamites containing nitroglycerine have a degree of water resistance. Explosives based on ammonium nitrate have little or no water resistance as ammonium nitrate is highly soluble in water and is hygroscopic.\n\nMany explosives are toxic to some extent. Manufacturing inputs can also be organic compounds or hazardous materials that require special handing due to risks (such as carcinogens). The decomposition products, residual solids, or gases of some explosives can be toxic, whereas others are harmless, such as carbon dioxide and water.\n\nExamples of harmful by-products are:\n\n\"Green explosives\" seek to reduce environment and health impacts. An example of such is the lead-free primary explosive copper(I) 5-nitrotetrazolate, an alternative to lead azide. One variety of a green explosive is CDP explosives, whose synthesis does not involve any toxic ingredients, consumes carbon dioxide while detonating and does not release any nitric oxides into the atmosphere when used.\n\nExplosive material may be incorporated in the explosive train of a device or system. An example is a pyrotechnic lead igniting a booster, which causes the main charge to detonate.\n\nThe most widely used explosives are condensed liquids or solids converted to gaseous products by explosive chemical reactions and the energy released by those reactions. The gaseous products of complete reaction are typically carbon dioxide, steam, and nitrogen. Gaseous volumes computed by the ideal gas law tend to be too large at high pressures characteristic of explosions. Ultimate volume expansion may be estimated at three orders of magnitude, or one liter per gram of explosive. Explosives with an oxygen deficit will generate soot or gases like carbon monoxide and hydrogen, which may react with surrounding materials such as atmospheric oxygen. Attempts to obtain more precise volume estimates must consider the possibility of such side reactions, condensation of steam, and aqueous solubility of gases like carbon dioxide.\n\nBy comparison, CDP detonation is based on the rapid reduction of carbon dioxide to carbon with the abundant release of energy. Rather than produce typical waste gases like carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen and nitric oxides, CDP is different. Instead, the highly energetic reduction of carbon dioxide to carbon vaporizes and pressurizes excess dry ice at the wave front, which is the only gas released from the detonation. The velocity of detonation for CDP formulations can therefore be customized by adjusting the weight percentage of reducing agent and dry ice. CDP detonations produce a large amount of solid materials that can have great commercial value as an abrasive:\n\nExample – CDP Detonation Reaction with Magnesium: XCO + 2Mg → 2MgO + C + (X-1)CO\n\nThe products of detonation in this example are magnesium oxide, carbon in various phases including diamond, and vaporized excess carbon dioxide that was not consumed by the amount of magnesium in the explosive formulation.\n\nOxygen balance is an expression that is used to indicate the degree to which an explosive can be oxidized. If an explosive molecule contains just enough oxygen to convert all of its carbon to carbon dioxide, all of its hydrogen to water, and all of its metal to metal oxide with no excess, the molecule is said to have a zero oxygen balance. The molecule is said to have a positive oxygen balance if it contains more oxygen than is needed and a negative oxygen balance if it contains less oxygen than is needed. The sensitivity, strength, and brisance of an explosive are all somewhat dependent upon oxygen balance and tend to approach their maxima as oxygen balance approaches zero.\n\nOxygen balance applies to traditional explosives mechanics with the assumption that carbon is oxidized to carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide during detonation. In what seems like a paradox to an explosives expert, Cold Detonation Physics uses carbon in its most highly oxidized state as the source of oxygen in the form of carbon dioxide. Oxygen balance, therefore, either does not apply to a CDP formulation or must be calculated without including the carbon in the carbon dioxide.\n\nA chemical explosive may consist of either a chemically pure compound, such as nitroglycerin, or a mixture of a fuel and an oxidizer, such as black powder or grain dust and air.\n\nSome chemical compounds are unstable in that, when shocked, they react, possibly to the point of detonation. Each molecule of the compound dissociates into two or more new molecules (generally gases) with the release of energy.\n\nThe above compositions may describe most of the explosive material, but a practical explosive will often include small percentages of other substances. For example, dynamite is a mixture of highly sensitive nitroglycerin with sawdust, powdered silica, or most commonly diatomaceous earth, which act as stabilizers. Plastics and polymers may be added to bind powders of explosive compounds; waxes may be incorporated to make them safer to handle; aluminium powder may be introduced to increase total energy and blast effects. Explosive compounds are also often \"alloyed\": HMX or RDX powders may be mixed (typically by melt-casting) with TNT to form Octol or Cyclotol.\n\nAn oxidizer is a pure substance (molecule) that in a chemical reaction can contribute some atoms of one or more oxidizing elements, in which the fuel component of the explosive burns. On the simplest level, the oxidizer may itself be an oxidizing element, such as gaseous or liquid oxygen.\n\nThe availability and cost of explosives are determined by the availability of the raw materials and the cost, complexity, and safety of the manufacturing operations.\n\nA primary explosive is an explosive that is extremely sensitive to stimuli such as impact, friction, heat, static electricity, or electromagnetic radiation. Some primary explosives are also known as contact explosives. A relatively small amount of energy is required for initiation. As a very general rule, primary explosives are considered to be those compounds that are more sensitive than PETN. As a practical measure, primary explosives are sufficiently sensitive that they can be reliably initiated with a blow from a hammer; however, PETN can also usually be initiated in this manner, so this is only a very broad guideline. Additionally, several compounds, such as nitrogen triiodide, are so sensitive that they cannot even be handled without detonating. Nitrogen triiodide is so sensitive that it can be reliably detonated by exposure to alpha radiation; it is the only explosive for which this is true. \n\nPrimary explosives are often used in detonators or to trigger larger charges of less sensitive secondary explosives. Primary explosives are commonly used in blasting caps and percussion caps to translate a physical shock signal. In other situations, different signals such as electrical or physical shock, or, in the case of laser detonation systems, light, are used to initiate an action, i.e., an explosion. A small quantity, usually milligrams, is sufficient to initiate a larger charge of explosive that is usually safer to handle.\n\nExamples of primary high explosives are:\n\nA secondary explosive is less sensitive than a primary explosive and requires substantially more energy to be initiated. Because they are less sensitive, they are usable in a wider variety of applications and are safer to handle and store. Secondary explosives are used in larger quantities in an explosive train and are usually initiated by a smaller quantity of a primary explosive.\n\nExamples of secondary explosives include TNT and RDX.\n\nTertiary explosives, also called blasting agents, are so insensitive to shock that they cannot be reliably detonated by practical quantities of primary explosive, and instead require an intermediate explosive booster of secondary explosive. These are often used for safety and the typically lower costs of material and handling. The largest consumers are large-scale mining and construction operations.\n\nMost tertiaries include a fuel and an oxidizer. ANFO can be a tertiary explosive if its reaction rate is slow.\n\nLow explosives are compounds where the rate of decomposition proceeds through the material at less than the speed of sound. The decomposition is propagated by a flame front (deflagration) which travels much more slowly through the explosive material than a shock wave of a high explosive. Under normal conditions, low explosives undergo deflagration at rates that vary from a few centimetres per second to approximately 400 metres per second. It is possible for them to deflagrate very quickly, producing an effect similar to a detonation. This can happen under higher pressure or temperature, which usually occurs when ignited in a confined space.\n\nA low explosive is usually a mixture of a combustible substance and an oxidant that decomposes rapidly (deflagration); however, they burn more slowly than a high explosive, which has an extremely fast burn rate.\n\nLow explosives are normally employed as propellants. Included in this group are petroleum products such as propane and gasoline, gunpowder (including smokeless powder), and light pyrotechnics, such as flares and fireworks, but can replace high explosives in certain applications, see gas pressure blasting.\n\nHigh explosives (HE) are explosive materials that detonate, meaning that the explosive shock front passes through the material at a supersonic speed. High explosives detonate with explosive velocity ranging from 3 to 9 km/s. For instance, TNT has a detonation (burn) rate of approximately 5.8 km/s (19,000 feet per second), Detonating cord of 6.7 km/s (22,000 feet per second), and C-4 about 8.5 km/s (29,000 feet per second). They are normally employed in mining, demolition, and military applications. They can be divided into two explosives classes differentiated by sensitivity: primary explosive and secondary explosive. The term \"high explosive\" is in contrast with the term \"low explosive\", which explodes (deflagrates) at a lower rate.\n\nCountless high-explosive compounds are chemically possible, but commercially and militarily important ones have included NG, TNT, TNX, RDX, HMX, PETN, TATB, and HNS.\n\nPriming compositions are primary explosives mixed with other compositions to control (lessen) the sensitivity of the mixture to the desired property.\n\nFor example, primary explosives are so sensitive that they need to be stored and shipped in a wet state to prevent accidental initiation.\n\nExplosives are often characterized by the physical form that the explosives are produced or used in. These use forms are commonly categorized as:\n\nShipping labels and tags may include both United Nations and national markings.\n\nUnited Nations markings include numbered Hazard Class and Division (HC/D) codes and alphabetic Compatibility Group codes. Though the two are related, they are separate and distinct. Any Compatibility Group designator can be assigned to any Hazard Class and Division. An example of this hybrid marking would be a consumer firework, which is labeled as 1.4G or 1.4S.\n\nExamples of national markings would include United States Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) codes.\n\nThe Hazard Class and Division (HC/D) is a numeric designator within a hazard class indicating the character, predominance of associated hazards, and potential for causing personnel casualties and property damage. It is an internationally accepted system that communicates using the minimum amount of markings the primary hazard associated with a substance.\n\nListed below are the Divisions for Class 1 (Explosives):\n\nTo see an entire UNO Table, browse Paragraphs 3-8 and 3-9 of NAVSEA OP 5, Vol. 1, Chapter 3.\n\nCompatibility Group codes are used to indicate storage compatibility for HC/D Class 1 (explosive) materials. Letters are used to designate 13 compatibility groups as follows.\n\n\nThe legality of possessing or using explosives varies by jurisdiction. Various countries around the world have enacted explosives law and require licenses to manufacture, distribute, store, use, possess explosives or ingredients.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the civil and commercial use of explosives is covered under the \"Wet explosieven voor civiel gebruik\" (explosives for civil use Act), in accordance with EU directive nr. 93/15/EEG (Dutch). The illegal use of explosives is covered under the \"Wet Wapens en Munitie\" (Weapons and Munition Act) (Dutch).\n\nThe new Explosives Regulations 2014 (ER 2014) came into force on 1 October 2014\n\nDuring World War I, numerous laws were created to regulate war related industries and increase security within the United States. In 1917, the 65th United States Congress created many laws, including the \"Espionage Act of 1917\" and \"Explosives Act of 1917\".\n\nThe \"Explosives Act of 1917\" (session 1, chapter 83, ) was signed on 6 October 1917 and went into effect on 16 November 1917. The legal summary is \"An Act to prohibit the manufacture, distribution, storage, use, and possession in time of war of explosives, providing regulations for the safe manufacture, distribution, storage, use, and possession of the same, and for other purposes\". This was the first federal regulation of licensing explosives purchases. The act was deactivated after World War I ended.\n\nAfter the United States entered World War II, the Explosives Act of 1917 was reactivated. In 1947, the act was deactivated by President Truman.\n\nThe \"Organized Crime Control Act of 1970\" () transferred many explosives regulations to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) of the Department of Treasury. The bill became effective in 1971.\n\nCurrently, regulations are governed by Title 18 of the United States Code and Title 27 of the Code of Federal Regulations:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14813455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14813455", "title": "Fault indicator", "text": "Fault indicator\n\nA fault indicator is a device which provides visual or remote indication of a fault on the electric power system. Also called a faulted circuit indicator (FCI), the device is used in electric power distribution networks as a means of automatically detecting and identifying faults to reduce outage time.\n\nOverhead indicators are used to visualize the occurrence of an electrical fault on an overhead electrical system. Underground indicators locate faults on an underground system. Often these devices are located in an underground vault. Some fault indicators communicate back to a central location using radio or cellular signals.\n\nTypically fault indicators sense magnetic field caused by current flows through a conductor or cable. Some of them also use measurement of electric field caused by voltage in conductor.\n\nDuring an electrical fault on a grounded system, additional current flows through a conductor, inducing a magnetic field, which is detected up by the fault indicator causing a state change on the mechanical target flag, LED, or remote indication device. Ground fault indicators for isolated ground systems sense the vector sum of the current and look for an imbalance indicating a fault on one or more of the three phases.\n\nSystems with earthing through high resistance have low phase-to-ground fault currents so require high sensitivity of FI. When there are high load currents and low earth fault levels the line mounted fault indicators should look at the differential increase of the current (di/dt) instead of the absolute value.\n\nIn insulated neutral systems and systems with earthing through a Petersen Coil, ground faults cannot be located with classical FI's at all. Capacitive current appears in overall faulted system so directional fault location devices are required.\nUpon energization of the lines there could be high inrush current which may lead the fault indicators to false operation. Some fault indicators can block inrush current.\n\nAdvanced fault indicators should monitor the live line to distinguish fault currents from usual current surges. They operate only after making sure of the feeding circuit breaker/fuse has cut the power flow and the line is de-energized. To monitor the live line, some fault indicators look only at the magnetic field caused by the load current. to be independent from the load current, some FI’s look at the E field to check the voltage directly. This feature is used to reset the indicator after the line is re-energized too. Such indicators can also distinguish permanent faults from transient faults.\n\nSome modern network protection systems e.g. GFN have time to clear a fault as small as possible down to 60ms so fault indicators must not only be highly sensitive and directional but additionally very fast. Modern fault indicators can detect faults with the duration of one cycle 18-20 ms. \nIn the networks with low earth fault levels the indicators are required to be set to low values. In such cases the user should consider the downstream capacitive discharge current to avoid false operation of the non-directional indicators.\n\nSome overhead line fault indicators called as pole mounted fault indicators can detect the live line and the fault current from 3 to 5 meters below the conductors.\nHigh-voltage fuses commonly drop down after operating, making it obvious where the fault is. However fuses are rarely equipped with remote communication.\n\nThe first fault indicators came onto the market from Horstmann (Germany) in 1946. The E.O. Schweitzer Manufacturing Company (now a division of Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories, Inc.) introduced a product to the United States in 1948. The first fault indicators were manual reset devices. Later fault indicators automatically reset on system restoration or after a set period of time. Nortroll (Norway), came to the market in 1977, makes conductor mounted and pole mounted fault indicator using di/dt technic and sensitivity as low as 2.5 Amps. More recent fault indicators communicate their status (tripped or reset) via cell signal or radio to a central station, handheld device, or pole-mounted receiver.\n\nRecent developments include a remotely programmable overhead line indicator, fault indication for paper-insulated lead cable, and an overhead fault indicator for mesh networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "3232292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3232292", "title": "Fossegrim", "text": "Fossegrim\n\nIn Scandinavian folklore, the fossegrim, also known simply as the grim (Norwegian) or Strömkarlen (Swedish), is a water spirit or troll who plays the fiddle, especially the Hardanger fiddle, and can be induced to teach the skill.\n\nThe fossegrim is related to the neck or nixie and is sometimes also called \"näcken\" in Sweden, but is associated with rivers (the Swedish name \"Strömkarlen\" means \"The River Man\") and particularly with waterfalls (\"foss\" in Norwegian) and mill races. He has been associated with the \"kvernknurr\", a mill spirit.\n\nThe fossegrim is described as an exceptionally talented fiddler: the sounds of forest, wind and water play over his fiddle strings. The Swedish strömkarl's lay is said to have eleven variations, the final one being reserved for the night spirits because when it is played, \"tables and benches, cup and can, gray-beards and grandmothers, blind and lame, even babes in the cradle\" will begin to dance. The fossegrim is said to be willing to teach away his skills in exchange for a food offering made on a Thursday evening and in secrecy: a white he-goat thrown with head turned away into a waterfall that flows northwards, or \"fenalår\" (smoked mutton) stolen from the neighbour's storage four Thursdays in a row. If there is not enough meat on the bone, he will only teach the supplicant how to tune the fiddle. If the offering is satisfactory, he will take the pupil's right hand and draw the fingers along the strings until they all bleed, after which he will be able to play so well that \"the trees shall dance and torrents in their fall stand still\". Jacob Grimm cites a variant in Johan Ödman's 18th-century \"Chorographia Bahusiensis\" according to which the strömkarl must be offered redemption or he will merely break his instrument and weep bitterly.\n\nFamous fiddlers who were said to have learnt from the fossegrim include Torgeir Augundsson, known as Myllarguten (who denied it to Theodor Kjerulf) and Ole Bull, whose statue in the centre of Bergen depicts a fossegrim playing his harp under the falling water; the sculptor, Stephan Sinding (1846–1922), intended it to symbolise his being inspired by Norwegian nature and folklore. The folklorist Rikard Berge said that he told the story to the fiddler Håvard Gibøen when they were both boys but that neither believed it.\n"}
{"id": "4475796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475796", "title": "Fuel poverty", "text": "Fuel poverty\n\nA household is said to be in fuel poverty when its members cannot afford to keep adequately warm at a reasonable cost, given their income. The term is mainly used in the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, although discussions on fuel poverty are increasing across Europe, and the concept also applies everywhere in the world where poverty may be present.\n\nIn the UK, fuel poverty is defined by the Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act as: “a person is to be regarded as living \"in fuel poverty\" if he is a member of a household living on a lower income in a home which cannot be kept warm at reasonable cost”.\n\nStatistically, this used to be defined as a household needing to spend more than 10% of its income to maintain an adequate heating regime. However, definitions of \"income\" and \"adequate heating regime\" vary between UK Government and Devolved Administrations. A new, more complex definition of fuel poverty is now used in the UK, based on the Hills review.\n\nThis gave the following definition: fuel poverty is now defined as when a household’s required fuel costs\nare above the median level, and if they were to spend what is required, then the household would be left with a residual income below the official poverty line. Additionally, a Fuel Poverty Indicator has been created, which shows how far into fuel poverty\nhouseholds are, not simply if they are in poverty or not.\nIn Eastern Europe (transition economies), the term energy poverty is sometimes used instead. However, this use of the term (which is about a lack of access to energy services due to economic poverty) can be confused with indicating a lack of any access to energy infrastructure, as has been used by the World Economic Forum when establishing its Energy Poverty Action (EPA) initiative in 2005 to address energy poverty in the developing world by implementing electrification schemes (grid-extension and off-grid).\n\nFuel poverty is caused by a convergence of three factors:\nThe sharp rise in fuel prices from 2006-8 has led to an estimated doubling of the numbers in fuel poverty in countries where it is a major problem.\n\nA number of illnesses, including cancer can exacerbate the problems associated with fuel poverty.\n\nFuel poverty has been the focus of political action since the early 1970s . In early 2008 it was estimated by Energywatch that there were around 4.4 million households in fuel poverty in the UK, with just over 3 million in England alone: this was more than double the number in 2003By April 2011 a YouGov survey indicated that the number of households in fuel poverty had risen to 6.3 million households, representing approximately 24% of all households in the UK.. Research by Confused.com found that 82% of the UK population had expressed a concern at being able to afford their energy bills throughout winter.\n\n\nUtility Saving Expert - 2017 Guide to Fuel Poverty Fuel Poverty Guide\n"}
{"id": "9631579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9631579", "title": "Greenprinting", "text": "Greenprinting\n\nGreenprinting relates to the conservation of land. Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions. \n\nGreenprinting can galvanize public support and encourage partners to work toward common conservation goals. Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12061068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12061068", "title": "Guatemala Stove Project", "text": "Guatemala Stove Project\n\nThe Guatemala Stove Project (GSP), is a registered Canadian charity (#871977617 RR0001) that raises funds and provides volunteers for the building of masonry cookstoves in Guatemala's Altiplano (Western Highlands). \n\nThe Guatemala Stove Project works in partnership with CEDEC (Centro De Estudios Para El Desarrollo Y La Cooperacion), a non profit indigenous group from Quetzaltenango (Xela) Guatemala. CEDEC and the Guatemala Stove Project work with local women's groups to identify the families who are in need of a stove. \nSince 1999 the Guatemala Stove Project has built over 3000 stoves.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "9333454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9333454", "title": "Heating mantle", "text": "Heating mantle\n\nA heating mantle, or isomantle, is a piece of laboratory equipment used to apply heat to containers, as an alternative to other forms of heated bath. In contrast to other heating devices, such as hotplates or Bunsen burners, glassware containers may be placed in direct contact with the heating mantle without substantially increasing the risk of the glassware shattering, because the heating element of a heating mantle is insulated from the container so as to prevent excessive temperature gradients. \nHeating mantles may have various forms. In a common arrangement, electric wires are embedded within a strip of fabric that can be wrapped around a flask. The current supplied to the device, and hence the temperature achieved, is regulated by a rheostat. This type of heating mantle is quite useful for maintaining an intended temperature within a separatory funnel, for example, after the contents of a reaction have been removed from a primary heat source.\n\nAnother variety of heating mantle may resemble a paint can and is constructed as a \"basket\" within a cylindrical canister (often made of plastic or metal such as aluminium). The rigid metal exterior supports a \"basket\" made of fabric and includes heating elements within the body of the heating mantle. To heat an object, it is placed within the basket of the heating mantle.\n\nIn further contrast to other methods of applying heat to a flask, such as an oil bath or water bath, using a heating mantle generates no liquid residue to drip off the flask. Also, heating mantles generally distribute heat evenly over the surface of the flask and exhibit less tendency to generate harmful hotspots.\n\n"}
{"id": "3500440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500440", "title": "Japan wax", "text": "Japan wax\n\nJapan wax, also known as sumac wax (alternatively spelled sumach wax), vegetable wax, China green tallow, and Japan tallow, is a pale-yellow, waxy, water-insoluble solid with a gummy feel, obtained from the berries of certain sumacs native to Japan and China, such as \"Toxicodendron vernicifluum\" (lacquer tree) and \"Toxicodendron succedaneum\" (Japanese wax tree).\n\nJapan wax is a byproduct of lacquer manufacture. It is not a true wax but a fat that contains 95% palmitin. Japan wax is sold in flat squares or disks and has a rancid odor. It is extracted by expression and heat, or by the action of solvents.\n\nJapan wax is used in candles, furniture polishes, floor waxes, wax matches, soaps, food packaging, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, pastels, crayons, buffing compounds, metal lubricants, adhesives, thermoplastic resins, and as a substitute for beeswax. Because it undergoes rancidification, it is not often used in foods.\n\n"}
{"id": "16992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16992", "title": "Kerosene", "text": "Kerosene\n\nKerosene, also known as paraffin, lamp oil, and coal oil (an obsolete term), is a combustible hydrocarbon liquid which is derived from petroleum. It is widely used as a fuel in industry as well as households. Its name derives from (\"keros\") meaning wax, and was registered as a trademark by Canadian geologist and inventor Abraham Gesner in 1854 before evolving into a genericized trademark. It is sometimes spelled kerosine in scientific and industrial usage. The term kerosene is common in much of Argentina, Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand, and the United States, while the term paraffin (or a closely related variant) is used in Chile, eastern Africa, South Africa, Norway, and in the United Kingdom, and (a variant of) the term petroleum in Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, German, Hungarian, Latvian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian. In some of these languages the term \"kerosine\" refers instead to jet fuel. The term lamp oil, or the equivalent in the local languages, is common in the majority of Asia. Liquid paraffin (called mineral oil in the US) is a more viscous and highly refined product which is used as a laxative. Paraffin wax is a waxy solid extracted from petroleum.\n\nKerosene is widely used to power jet engines of aircraft (jet fuel) and some rocket engines and is also commonly used as a cooking and lighting fuel and for fire toys such as poi. In parts of Asia, kerosene is sometimes used as fuel for small outboard motors or even motorcycles. World total kerosene consumption for all purposes is equivalent to about per day. A jet engine requires a \"burning\", rather than exploding, fuel. In Otto engines, used in most cars, petrol or diesel is mixed with air and as vapour explodes in smaller proportions in the cylinders. Whilst kerosene in the combustion chamber of a jet engine (after an initial electrical spark) becomes ignited and then continues to burn. (And as the jet engine's inlet area is larger than its exhaust area, this causes the flame to draw air through the engine. Fans in the front and generators behind the combustion chamber then enforces efficiency.)\n\nTo prevent confusion between kerosene and the much more flammable and volatile gasoline, some jurisdictions regulate markings or colorings for containers used to store or dispense kerosene. For example, in the United States, Pennsylvania requires that portable containers used at retail service stations for kerosene be colored blue, as opposed to red (for gasoline) or yellow (for diesel fuel).\n\nKerosene is a low viscosity, clear liquid formed from hydrocarbons obtained from the fractional distillation of petroleum between , resulting in a mixture with a density of composed of carbon chains that typically contain between 10 and 16 carbon atoms per molecule. It is miscible in petroleum solvents but immiscible in water.\n\nThe American Society for Testing and Materials standard specification D-3699-78 recognizes two grades of kerosene: grades 1-K (less than 0.04% sulfur by weight) and 2-K (0.3% sulfur by weight). 1-K grade kerosene burns cleaner with fewer deposits, fewer toxins, and less frequent maintenance than 2-K grade kerosene, and is the preferred grade of kerosene for indoor kerosene heaters and stoves.\n\nRegardless of crude oil source or processing history, kerosene's major components are branched and straight chain alkanes and naphthenes (cycloalkanes), which normally account for at least 70% by volume. Aromatic hydrocarbons in this boiling range, such as alkylbenzenes (single ring) and alkylnaphthalenes (double ring), do not normally exceed 25% by volume of kerosene streams. Olefins are usually not present at more than 5% by volume.\n\nThe flash point of kerosene is between 37 and 65 °C (100 and 150 °F), and its autoignition temperature is . The pour point of kerosene depends on grade, with commercial aviation fuel standardized at .\n\n1-K grade kerosene freezes around −40 °C (−40 °F, 233 K).\n\nHeat of combustion of kerosene is similar to that of diesel fuel; its lower heating value is 43.1 MJ/kg (around 18,500 Btu/lb), and its higher heating value is .\n\nIn the United Kingdom, two grades of heating oil are defined. BS 2869 Class C1 is the lightest grade used for lanterns, camping stoves, wick heaters, and mixed with gasoline in some vintage combustion engines as a substitute for tractor vaporising oil. BS 2869 Class C2 is a heavier distillate, which is used as domestic heating oil. Premium kerosene is usually sold in containers from hardware, camping and garden stores and is often dyed purple. Standard kerosene is usually dispensed in bulk by a tanker and is undyed.\n\nNational and international standards define the properties of several grades of kerosene used for jet fuel. Flash point and freezing point properties are of particular interest for operation and safety; the standards also define additives for control of static electricity and other purposes.\n\nThe process of distilling crude oil/petroleum into kerosene, as well as other hydrocarbon compounds, was first written about in the 9th century by the Persian scholar Rāzi (or Rhazes). In his \"Kitab al-Asrar\" (\"Book of Secrets\"), the physician and chemist Razi described two methods for the production of kerosene, termed \"naft abyad\" (\"white naphtha\"), using an apparatus called an alembic. One method used clay as an absorbent, whereas the other method used ammonium chloride (\"sal ammoniac\"). The distillation process was repeated until most of the volatile hydrocarbon fractions had been removed and the final product was perfectly clear and safe to burn. Kerosene was also produced during the same period from oil shale and bitumen by heating the rock to extract the oil, which was then distilled. During the medieval Chinese Ming Dynasty, the Chinese made use of kerosene through extracting and purifying petroleum and then converted it into lamp fuel. The Chinese made use of petroleum and kerosene for lighting lamps and heating homes as early as 1500 BC.\n\nAlthough \"coal oil\" was well known by industrial chemists at least as early as the 1700s as a byproduct of making coal gas and coal tar, it burned with a smoky flame that prevented its use for indoor illumination. In cities, much indoor illumination was provided by piped-in coal gas, but outside the cities, and for spot lighting within the cities, the lucrative market for fueling indoor lamps was supplied by whale oil, specifically that from sperm whales, which burned brighter and cleaner.\n\nCanadian geologist Abraham Gesner claimed that in 1846, he had given a public demonstration in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island of a new process he had discovered. He heated coal in a retort, and distilled from it a clear, thin fluid that he showed made an excellent lamp fuel. He coined the name \"kerosene\" for his fuel, a contraction of \"keroselaion\", meaning \"wax-oil\". The cost of extracting kerosene from coal was high.\n\nGesner recalled from his extensive knowledge of New Brunswick's geology a naturally occurring asphaltum called albertite. He was blocked from using it by the New Brunswick coal conglomerate because they had coal extraction rights for the province, and he lost a court case when their experts claimed albertite was a form of coal. In 1854, Gesner moved to Newtown Creek, Long Island, New York. There, he secured backing from a group of businessmen. They formed the North American Gas Light Company, to which he assigned his patents.\n\nDespite clear priority of discovery, Gesner did not obtain his first kerosene patent until 1854, two years after James Young's United States patent. Gesner's method of purifying the distillation products appears to have been superior to Young's, resulting in a cleaner and better-smelling fuel. Manufacture of kerosene under the Gesner patents began in New York in 1854 and later in Boston—being distilled from bituminous coal and oil shale. Gesner registered the word \"Kerosene\" as a trademark in 1854, and for several years, only the North American Gas Light Company and the Downer Company (to which Gesner had granted the right) were allowed to call their lamp oil \"Kerosene\" in the United States.\n\nIn 1848, Scottish chemist James Young experimented with oil discovered seeping in a coal mine as a source of lubricating oil and illuminating fuel. When the seep became exhausted, he experimented with the dry distillation of coal, especially the resinous \"boghead coal\" (torbanite). He extracted a number of useful liquids from it, one of which he named \"paraffine oil\" because at low temperatures, it congealed into a substance that resembled paraffin wax. Young took out a patent on his process and the resulting products in 1850, and built the first truly commercial oil-works in the world at Bathgate in 1851, using oil extracted from locally mined torbanite, shale, and bituminous coal. In 1852, he took out a United States patent for the same invention. These patents were subsequently upheld in both countries in a series of lawsuits, and other producers were obliged to pay him royalties.\n\nIn 1851, Samuel Martin Kier began selling lamp oil to local miners, under the name \"Carbon Oil\". He distilled this by a process of his own invention from crude oil. He also invented a new lamp to burn his product. He has been dubbed the \"Grandfather of the American Oil Industry\" by historians. Since the 1840s, Kier's salt wells were becoming fouled with petroleum. At first, Kier simply dumped the useless oil into the nearby Pennsylvania Main Line Canal, but later he began experimenting with several distillates of the crude oil, along with a chemist from eastern Pennsylvania.\n\nIgnacy Łukasiewicz, a Polish pharmacist residing in Lviv, and his Hungarian partner had been experimenting with different distillation techniques, trying to improve on Gesner's kerosene process, but using oil from a local petroleum seep. Many people knew of his work, but paid little attention to it. On the night of 31 July 1853, doctors at the local hospital needed to perform an emergency operation, virtually impossible by candlelight. They therefore sent a messenger for Łukasiewicz and his new lamps. The lamp burned so brightly and cleanly that the hospital officials ordered several lamps plus a large supply of fuel. Łukasiewicz realized the potential of his work and quit the pharmacy to find a business partner, and then travelled to Vienna to register his technique with the government. Łukasiewicz moved to the Gorlice region of Poland in 1854, and sank several wells across southern Poland over the following decade, setting up a refinery near Jasło in 1859.\n\nThe petroleum discovery at the Drake Well in western Pennsylvania in 1859 caused a great deal of public excitement and investment drilling in new wells, not only in Pennsylvania, but also in Canada, where petroleum had been discovered at Oil Springs, Ontario in 1858, and southern Poland, where Ignacy Łukasiewicz had been distilling lamp oil from petroleum seeps since 1852. The increased supply of petroleum allowed oil refiners to entirely side-step the oil-from-coal patents of both Young and Gesner, and produce illuminating oil from petroleum without paying royalties to anyone. As a result, the illuminating oil industry in the United States completely switched over to petroleum in the 1860s. The petroleum-based illuminating oil was widely sold as Kerosene, and the trade name soon lost its proprietary status, and became the lower-case generic product \"kerosene\". Because Gesner’s original Kerosene had been also known as \"coal oil,\" generic kerosene from petroleum was commonly called \"coal oil\" in some parts of the United States well into the 20th century.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, manufacturing oil from coal (or oil shale) continued into the early 20th century, although increasingly overshadowed by petroleum oils.\n\nAs kerosene production increased, whaling declined. The American whaling fleet, which had been steadily growing for 50 years, reached its all-time peak of 199 ships in 1858. By 1860, just two years later, the fleet had dropped to 167 ships. The Civil War cut into American whaling temporarily, but only 105 whaling ships returned to sea in 1866, the first full year of peace, and that number dwindled until only 39 American ships set out to hunt whales in 1876. Kerosene, made first from coal and oil shale, then from petroleum, had largely taken over whaling’s lucrative market in lamp oil.\n\nElectric lighting started displacing kerosene as an illuminant in the late 19th century, especially in urban areas. However, kerosene remained the predominant commercial end-use for petroleum refined in the United States until 1909, when it was exceeded by motor fuels. The rise of the gasoline-powered automobile in the early 20th century created a demand for the lighter hydrocarbon fractions, and refiners invented methods to increase the output of gasoline, while decreasing the output of kerosene. In addition, some of the heavier hydrocarbons that previously went into kerosene were incorporated into diesel fuel. Kerosene kept some market share by being increasingly used in stoves and portable heaters.\n\nIn 2013, kerosene made up about 0.1 percent by volume of petroleum refinery output in the United States.\n\nAt one time the fuel, also known as heating oil in the UK and Ireland, was widely used in kerosene lamps and lanterns. Although it replaced whale oil, the 1873 edition of \"Elements of Chemistry\" said, \"The vapor of this substance [kerosene] mixed with air is as explosive as gunpowder.\" This may have been due to the common practice of adulterating kerosene with cheaper but more volatile hydrocarbon mixtures, such as naphtha.\nKerosene was a significant fire risk; in 1880, nearly two of every five New York City fires were caused by defective kerosene lamps.\n\nIn less-developed countries kerosene is an important source of energy for cooking and lighting. It is used as a cooking fuel in portable stoves for backpackers. As a heating fuel, it is often used in portable stoves, and is sold in some filling stations. It is sometimes used as a heat source during power failures.\nKerosene is widely used in Japan as a home heating fuel for portable and installed kerosene heaters. In Japan, kerosene can be readily bought at any filling station or be delivered to homes.\nIn the United Kingdom and Ireland, kerosene is often used as a heating fuel in areas not connected to a gas pipeline network. It is used less for cooking, with LPG being preferred because it is easier to light. Kerosene is often the fuel of choice for range cookers such as Rayburn. Additives such as RangeKlene can be put into kerosene to ensure that it burns cleaner and produces less soot when used in range cookers.\n\nThe Amish, who generally abstain from the use of electricity, rely on kerosene for lighting at night.\n\nMore ubiquitous in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, kerosene space heaters were often built into kitchen ranges, and kept many farm and fishing families warm and dry through the winter. At one time, citrus growers used a smudge pot fueled by kerosene to create a pall of thick smoke over a grove in an effort to prevent freezing temperatures from damaging crops. \"Salamanders\" are kerosene space heaters used on construction sites to dry out building materials and to warm workers. Before the days of electrically lighted road barriers, highway construction zones were marked at night by kerosene fired, pot-bellied torches. Most of these uses of kerosene created thick black smoke because of the low temperature of combustion.\n\nA notable exception, discovered in the early 19th century, is the use of a gas mantle mounted above the wick on a kerosene lamp. Looking like a delicate woven bag above the woven cotton wick, the mantle is a residue of mineral materials (mostly thorium dioxide), heated to incandescence by the flame from the wick. The thorium and cerium oxide combination produces both a whiter light and a greater fraction of the energy in the form of visible light than a black body at the same temperature would. These types of lamps are still in use today in areas of the world without electricity, because they give a much better light than a simple wick-type lamp does. Recently, a multipurpose lantern that doubles as a cook stove has been introduced in India in areas with no electricity.\n\nIn countries such as India and Nigeria, kerosene is the main fuel used for cooking, especially by the poor, and kerosene stoves have replaced traditional wood-based cooking appliances. As such, increase in the price of kerosene can have a major political and environmental consequence. The Indian government subsidizes the fuel to keep the price very low, to around 15 U.S. cents per liter as of February 2007, as lower prices discourage dismantling of forests for cooking fuel. In Nigeria an attempt by the government to remove a fuel subsidy that includes kerosene met with strong opposition.\n\nKerosene is used as a fuel in portable stoves, especially in Primus stoves invented in 1892. Portable kerosene stoves earn a reputation of reliable and durable stove in everyday use, and perform especially well under adverse conditions. In outdoor activities and mountaineering, a decisive advantage of pressurized kerosene stoves over gas cartridge stoves is their particularly high thermal output and their ability to operate at very low temperature in winter or at high altitude. Wick stoves like Perfection's or wickless like Boss continue to be used by the Amish and off grid living and in natural disasters where there is no power available.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, kerosene or tractor vaporising oil (TVO) was used as a cheap fuel for tractors. The engine would start on gasoline, then switch over to kerosene once the engine warmed up. A heat valve on the manifold would route the exhaust gases around the intake pipe, heating the kerosene to the point where it was vaporized and could be ignited by an electric spark.\n\nIn Europe following the Second World War, automobiles were similarly modified to run on kerosene rather than gasoline, which they would have to import and pay heavy taxes on. Besides additional piping and the switch between fuels, the head gasket was replaced by a much thicker one to diminish the compression ratio (making the engine less powerful and less efficient, but able to run on kerosene). The necessary equipment was sold under the trademark \"Econom\".\n\nDuring the fuel crisis of the 1970s, Saab-Valmet developed and series-produced the Saab 99 Petro that ran on kerosene, turpentine or gasoline. The project, codenamed \"Project Lapponia\", was headed by Simo Vuorio, and towards the end of the 1970s, a working prototype was produced based on the Saab 99 GL. The car was designed to run on two fuels. Gasoline was used for cold starts and when extra power was needed, but normally it ran on kerosene or turpentine. The idea was that the gasoline could be made from peat using the Fischer–Tropsch process. Between 1980 and 1984, 3,756 Saab 99 Petros and 2,385 Talbot Horizons (a version of the Chrysler Horizon that integrated many Saab components) were made. One reason to manufacture kerosene-fueled cars was that in Finland kerosene was less heavily taxed than gasoline.\n\nKerosene is used to fuel smaller-horsepower outboard motors built by Yamaha, Suzuki, and Tohatsu. Primarily used on small fishing craft, these are dual-fuel engines that start on gasoline and then transition to kerosene once the engine reaches optimum operating temperature. Multiple fuel Evinrude and Mercury Racing engines also burn kerosene, as well as jet fuel.\n\nToday, kerosene is mainly used in fuel for jet engines in several grades. One highly refined form of the fuel is known as RP-1, and is often burned with liquid oxygen as rocket fuel. These fuel grade kerosenes meet specifications for smoke points and freeze points. The combustion reaction can be approximated as follows, with the molecular formula CH (dodecane):\n\n2 CH(\"l\") + 37 O(\"g\") → 24 CO(\"g\") + 26 HO(\"g\"); ∆\"H\"˚ = -7513 kJ\n\nIn the initial phase of liftoff, the Saturn V launch vehicle was powered by the reaction of liquid oxygen with RP-1. For the five 6.4 meganewton sea-level thrust F-1 rocket engines of the Saturn V, burning together, the reaction generated roughly 1.62 × 10 watts (J/s) (162 gigawatt) or 217 million horsepower.\n\nKerosene is sometimes used as an additive in diesel fuel to prevent gelling or waxing in cold temperatures.\n\n\"Ultra-low sulfur kerosene\" is a custom-blended fuel used by the New York City Transit Authority to power its bus fleet. The transit agency started using this fuel in 2004, prior to the widespread adoption of ultra-low-sulfur diesel, which has since become the standard. In 2008, the suppliers of the custom fuel failed to tender for a renewal of the transit agency's contract, leading to a negotiated contract at a significantly increased cost.\n\nJP-8, (for \"Jet Propellant 8\") a kerosene-based fuel, is used by the United States military as a replacement in diesel fueled vehicles and for powering aircraft. JP-8 is also used by the U.S. military and its NATO allies as a fuel for heaters, stoves, tanks and as a replacement for diesel fuel in the engines of nearly all tactical ground vehicles and electrical generators.\n\nKerosene is used as a diluent in the PUREX extraction process, but it is increasingly being supplanted by dodecane.\nIn X-ray crystallography, kerosene can be used to store crystals. When a hydrated crystal is left in air, dehydration may occur slowly. This makes the color of the crystal become dull. Kerosene can keep air from the crystal.\n\nIt can be also used to prevent air from re-dissolving in a boiled liquid, and to store alkali metals such as potassium, sodium, and rubidium (with the exception of lithium, which is less dense than kerosene, causing it to float).\n\nKerosene is often used in the entertainment industry for fire performances, such as fire breathing, fire juggling or poi, and fire dancing. Because of its low flame temperature when burnt in free air, the risk is lower should the performer come in contact with the flame. Kerosene is generally not recommended as fuel for indoor fire dancing, as it produces an unpleasant (to some) odor, which becomes poisonous in sufficient concentration. Ethanol was sometimes used instead, but the flames it produces look less impressive, and its lower flash point poses a high risk.\n\nAs a petroleum product miscible with many industrial liquids, kerosene can be used as both a solvent, able to remove other petroleum products, such as chain grease, and as a lubricant, with less risk of combustion when compared to using gasoline. It can also be used as a cooling agent in metal production and treatment (oxygen-free conditions).\n\nIn the petroleum industry, kerosene is often used as a synthetic hydrocarbon for corrosion experiments to simulate crude oil in field conditions.\n\nKerosene can be applied topically to hard-to-remove mucilage or adhesive left by stickers on a glass surface (such as in show windows of stores).\n\nIt can be used to remove candle wax that has dripped onto a glass surface; it is recommended that the excess wax be scraped off prior to applying kerosene via a soaked cloth or tissue paper.\n\nIt can be used to clean bicycle and motorcycle chains of old lubricant before relubrication.\n\nIt can also be used to thin oil based paint used in fine art. Some artists even use it to clean their brushes; however, it leaves the bristles greasy to the touch.\n\nIngestion of kerosene is harmful or fatal. Kerosene is sometimes recommended as a folk remedy for killing head lice, but health agencies warn against this as it can cause burns and serious illness. A kerosene shampoo can even be fatal if fumes are inhaled.\n\nPeople can be exposed to kerosene in the workplace by breathing it in, swallowing it, skin contact, and eye contact. The US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit of 100 mg/m over an 8-hour workday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7030764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7030764", "title": "Latvijas Gāze", "text": "Latvijas Gāze\n\nA/S Latvijas Gāze is a Latvian natural gas company, which deals in the importation and sale of natural gas.\n\nLatvijas Gāze is owned by Gazprom (34%), Marguerite Fund (28.97%), Uniper Ruhrgas International (18.26%) and Itera-Latvija (16%). In January 2016 the Marguerite Fund acquired a 28.97% stake from E.ON.\n\nThe Latvia's gas transmission network was unbundled from the company in 2016 by establishing an independent transmission and storage company Conexus Baltic Grid. For operating the distribution network, Latvijas Gāze established the gas distribution system operator Gaso.\n\n"}
{"id": "26827745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827745", "title": "List of high voltage underground and submarine cables", "text": "List of high voltage underground and submarine cables\n\nThis is a list of high voltage (above 150 kV) AC electrical transmission lines. This list is incomplete.\n\nFor high-voltage direct current, both underground and submarine, see List of HVDC projects.\n"}
{"id": "56692016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56692016", "title": "Maxus G10", "text": "Maxus G10\n\nThe Maxus G10 van is a large luxury MPV or minivan launched on the Chinese car market in April 2014. Price ranges from 133,800 yuan to 269,800 yuan (21,076 to 42,498 USD). The G10 is the second car under the Maxus brand following the Maxus V80 van, which is a sub-brand owned by the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC). The Maxus G10 is available in 7 colours: Gem Blue, Blanc White, Amber Gold, Aurora Silver, Lava Ash, Champagne Gold and Obsidian Black. It is available in 7, 9 and 10 seat configurations.\n\nThe Maxus EG10 electric van was based on Maxus G10 van, and was launched on the Chinese car market in early 2016 with the benefits of green-car subsidies from the Chinese government. With the range of only 150 kilometers, the electric EG10 is powered by an electric motor with an output of 204hp and 800nm of torque.\n\nhttps://www.ldvautomotive.com.au/vehicles/ldv-g10-people-mover/<br>\nhttps://www.ldvautomotive.com.au/vehicles/ldv-g10-executive-people-mover/\n"}
{"id": "36062704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36062704", "title": "Mexicali Rose (1939 film)", "text": "Mexicali Rose (1939 film)\n\nMexicali Rose is a 1939 American Western film directed by George Sherman and starring Gene Autry, Smiley Burnette, and Noah Beery. Based on a story by Luci Ward and Connie Lee, the film is about a singing cowboy who fights corrupt oil men selling worthless stock from a non-existent well located on land belonging to a poor Mexican orphanage.\n\nWhile singing on a radio program sponsored by Alta Vista Oil Company, Gene Autry meets a beautiful woman, Anita Loredo, when her sweater gets caught on his outfit. Forced to stand with him at the microphone while he sings, Anita smiles sweetly at the singing cowboy whose romantic words are directed at her. After the show, Gene learns that Anita helps run an orphanage in Mexico with her uncle, Padre Dominic. She is upset that the orphanage has yet to see any return on their investment in the oil company—money badly needed to help the children. After confronting the head of the oil company, Carruthers, Gene realizes that his employers are crooked oil promoters trying to peddle the land on which the poor Mexican orphanage is located.\n\nGene quits his job and travels down to Mexico to investigate. Along the way he meets a Mexican bandit named Valdez who, with Gene's influence, comes to see himself as a modern-day Robin Hood. At the orphanage, Gene is reunited with Anita and meets her uncle. The padre tells Gene that he leased the land to Carruthers on a royalty basis and that the company has no plans of drilling, content making money by selling worthless shares in a non-existent well. Without the royalties, the orphanage will soon go bankrupt.\n\nAt a fundraising dance held at the orphanage, Gene sings a romantic song to Anita. Valdez arrives and in keeping with his Robin Hood role, \"encourages\" those present to contribute to the donation box. Meanwhile, Carruthers' men arrive and kidnap Alta Vista's lead engineer Blythe, who intended to spill the beans on the company's scheme. Gene and Frog chase after them and rescue Blythe who confirms that there is oil in the area.\n\nGene comes up with a plan to get Carruthers to start drilling. After identifying the land most likely to contain oil, Gene, his sidekick, Frog Millhouse, and Valdez plant oil in the area, upriver from the oil company office. Later, when Carruthers tastes oil in the drinking water, he and his men track the source of the oil and build a derrick on the site, just as Gene had planned. As construction is completed, however, Carruthers learns of Gene's ruse and abandons the well.\n\nTrusting that the site will produce oil, Gene convinces the investors to buy up the rest of Carruthers' stock and drill. When Carruthers learns that there really is oil on the land and that his men have sold all his holdings, he begins a campaign of sabotage hoping to buy back the stock. When two orphans go missing, Gene tracks them to a cabin where Carruthers and his men are holed up. In the ensuing fight, Gene is captured but soon escapes when Valdez arrives on the scene. The orphans are rescued thanks to the heroic efforts of Valdez who sacrifices his life to save the children and dies like a true Robin Hood. As the well comes in, Gene remembers Valdez saying, \"He was a true friend.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37241932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37241932", "title": "Panduranga Hegde", "text": "Panduranga Hegde\n\nPanduranga Hegde is an environmentalist from Uttara Kannada district, Karnataka, India and is known as the person who started Appiko movement to protect trees in Western Ghats.\n\nPanduranga Hegde was born in 1956 in Uttara Kannada District, Karnataka and studied bachelor's degree at Karnatak University. He worked as Chartered Accountant at Delhi and later trained himself in Social work at Delhi School of Social Work and spent four years in Madhya Pradesh among rural people with Damoh, a non government organisation. He was attracted by Chipko movement led by Sundarlal Bahuguna and got involved with protection of forests and environment.\n\nPanduranga Hegde is inspired by Sundarlal Bahuguna in the area of environmental protection and is known as \"disciple\" of the latter. During the 1980s, Panduraga Hegde led people to protect trees in forest by embracing the trees or \"appiko\" (as in local language Kannada) when the contractors tried to fell trees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "788725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788725", "title": "Parabolic trough", "text": "Parabolic trough\n\nA parabolic trough is a type of solar thermal collector that is straight in one dimension and curved as a parabola in the other two, lined with a polished metal mirror. The sunlight which enters the mirror parallel to its plane of symmetry is focused along the focal line, where objects are positioned that are intended to be heated. For example, food may be placed at the focal line of a trough, which causes the food to be cooked when the trough is aimed so the Sun is in its plane of symmetry. Further information on the use of parabolic troughs for cooking can be found in the article about solar cookers.\n\nFor other purposes, there is often a tube, frequently a Dewar tube, which runs the length of the trough at its focal line. The mirror is oriented so that sunlight which it reflects is concentrated on the tube, which contains a fluid which is heated to a high temperature by the energy of the sunlight. The hot fluid can be used for many purposes. Often, it is piped to a heat engine, which uses the heat energy to drive machinery or to generate electricity. This solar energy collector is the most common and best known type of parabolic trough. The paragraphs below therefore concentrate on this type.\n\nThe trough is usually aligned on a north-south axis, and rotated to track the sun as it moves across the sky each day. Alternatively, the trough can be aligned on an east-west axis; this reduces the overall efficiency of the collector due to the sunlight striking the collectors at an angle but only requires the trough to be aligned with the change in seasons, avoiding the need for tracking motors. This tracking method approaches theoretical efficiencies at the spring and fall equinoxes with less accurate focusing of the light at other times during the year. The daily motion of the sun across the sky also introduces errors, greatest at the sunrise and sunset and smallest at noon. Due to these sources of error, seasonally adjusted parabolic troughs are generally designed with a lower concentration acceptance product.\n\nParabolic trough concentrators have a simple geometry, but their concentration is about 1/3 of the theoretical maximum for the same acceptance angle, that is, for the same overall tolerances of the system to all kinds of errors, including those referenced above. The theoretical maximum is better achieved with more elaborate concentrators based on primary-secondary designs using nonimaging optics which may nearly double the concentration of conventional parabolic troughs and are used to improve practical designs such as those with fixed receivers.\n\nHeat transfer fluid (usually thermal oil) runs through the tube to absorb the concentrated sunlight. This increases the temperature of the fluid to some 400 °C. The heat transfer fluid is then used to heat steam in a standard turbine generator. The process is economical and, for heating the pipe, thermal efficiency ranges from 60-80%.\nThe overall efficiency from collector to grid, i.e. (Electrical Output Power)/(Total Impinging Solar Power) is about 15%, similar to PV (Photovoltaic Cells) but less than Stirling dish concentrators.\n\nA parabolic trough is made of a number of solar collector modules (SCM) fixed together to move as one solar collector assembly (SCA). A SCM could have a length up to or more. About a dozen or more of SCM make each SCA up to length. Each SCA is an independently-tracking parabolic trough.\n\nA SCM may be made as a single-piece parabolic mirror or assembled with a number of smaller mirrors in parallel rows. Smaller modular mirrors requires smaller machines to build the mirror, reducing cost. Cost is also reduced in case of the need of replacing a damaged mirror. Such damage may occur due to being hit by an object during bad weather.\n\nIn addition, V-type parabolic troughs exist which are made from 2 mirrors and placed at an angle towards each other.\n\nIn 2009, scientists at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and SkyFuel teamed to develop large curved sheets of metal that have the potential to be 30% less expensive than today's best collectors of concentrated solar power by replacing glass-based models with a silver polymer sheet that has the same performance as the heavy glass mirrors, but at a much lower cost and weight. It also is much easier to move and install. The glossy film uses several layers of polymers, with an inner layer of pure silver.\n\nAs this renewable source of energy is inconsistent by nature, methods for energy storage have been studied, for instance the single-tank (thermocline) storage technology for large-scale solar thermal power plants. The thermocline tank approach uses a mixture of silica sand and\nquartzite rock to displace a significant portion of the volume in the tank. Then it is filled with the heat transfer fluid, typically a molten nitrate salt.\n\nThe enclosed trough architecture encapsulates the solar thermal system within a greenhouse-like glasshouse. The glasshouse creates a protected environment to withstand the elements that can reduce the reliability and efficiency of the solar thermal system.\n\nLightweight curved solar-reflecting mirrors are suspended within the glasshouse. A single-axis tracking system positions the mirrors to track the sun and focus its light onto a network of stationary steel pipes, also suspended from the glasshouse structure. Steam is generated directly using oil field-quality water, as water flows along the length of the pipes, without heat exchangers or intermediate working fluids.\n\nThe steam produced is then fed directly to the field’s existing steam distribution network, where the steam is continuously injected deep into the oil reservoir. Sheltering the mirrors from the wind allows them to achieve higher temperatures and prevents dust from building up as a result from exposure to humidity. GlassPoint Solar, the company that created the Enclosed Trough design, states its technology can produce heat for EOR for about $5 per million British thermal units in sunny regions, compared to between $10 and $12 for other conventional solar thermal technologies.\n\nEnclosed troughs are currently being used at the Miraah solar facility in Oman. In November 2017, GlassPoint announced a partnership with Aera Energy that would bring parabolic troughs to the South Belridge Oil Field, near Bakersfield, California.\n\nIn 1897, Frank Shuman, a U.S. inventor, engineer and solar energy pioneer built a small demonstration solar engine that worked by reflecting solar energy onto square boxes filled with ether, which has a lower boiling point than water, and were fitted internally with black pipes which in turn powered a steam engine. In 1908 Shuman formed the Sun Power Company with the intent of building larger solar power plants. He, along with his technical advisor A.S.E. Ackermann and British physicist Sir Charles Vernon Boys, developed an improved system using mirrors to reflect solar energy upon collector boxes, increasing heating capacity to the extent that water could now be used instead of ether. Shuman then constructed a full-scale steam engine powered by low-pressure water, enabling him to patent the entire solar engine system by 1912.\n\nShuman built the world’s first solar thermal power station in Maadi, Egypt between 1912 and 1913. Shuman’s plant used parabolic troughs to power a 45-52 kilowatt (60-70 hp) engine that pumped more than 22,000 litres of water per minute from the Nile River to adjacent cotton fields. Although the outbreak of World War I and the discovery of cheap oil in the 1930s discouraged the advancement of solar energy, Shuman’s vision and basic design were resurrected in the 1970s with a new wave of interest in solar thermal energy. In 1916 Shuman was quoted in the media advocating solar energy's utilization, saying:\n\nCommercial plants using parabolic troughs may use thermal storage at night while some are hybrids and support natural gas as a secondary fuel source. In the United States the amount of fossil fuel used in order for the plant to qualify as a renewable energy source is limited to a maximum 27% of electricity production. \nBecause they include cooling stations, condensers, accumulators and other things besides the actual solar collectors, the power generated per square meter of area varies enormously.\n\nAs of 2014, the largest solar thermal power systems using parabolic trough technology include the 354 MW SEGS plants in California, the 280 MW Solana Generating Station with molten salt heat storage, the 250 MW Genesis Solar Energy Project, the Spanish 200 MW Solaben Solar Power Station, and the Andasol 1 solar power station.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199140", "title": "Peace through strength", "text": "Peace through strength\n\n\"Peace through strength\" is a phrase which suggests that military power can help preserve peace. It is quite old and has famously been used by many leaders from Roman Emperor Hadrian in the first century AD to former U.S. President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s. The concept has long been associated with realpolitik. The idea has critics: \"'Peace through strength' easily enough becomes 'peace through war,'\" according to Andrew Bacevich.\n\nThe phrase and concept date to ancient times. Roman Emperor Hadrian (AD 76–138) is said to have sought \"peace through strength or, failing that, peace through threat\". Hadrian's Wall was a symbol of this policy.\n\nThe first American President, George Washington, enunciated a policy of peace through strength in his fifth annual message to Congress, the 1793 State of the Union Address. He said:\n\nIn Federalist No. 24, Alexander Hamilton argued for peace through strength, stating that strong garrisons in the west and a navy in the east would protect the Union from the threat of Britain and Spain.\n\n\"Peace Through Strength\" (1952) is the title of a book about a defense plan by Bernard Baruch, a World War II adviser to U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, published by Farrar, Straus and Young. During the 1964 presidential campaign in the United States, the Republican party spent about $5 million on \"Peace through Strength\" TV spots. For supporters of the MX missile in the 1970s, the missile symbolized \"peace through strength\".\n\nIn 1980, Ronald Reagan used the phrase during his election challenge against Jimmy Carter, accusing the incumbent of weak, vacillating leadership that invited enemies to attack the United States and its allies. Reagan later considered it one of the mainstays of his foreign policy as President. In 1986, he explained it thus:\n\nThe approach has been credited for forcing the Soviet Union to lose the arms race and end the Cold War. \"Peace Through Strength\" is the official motto of the \"Nimitz\"-class nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, USS \"Ronald Reagan\" (CVN-76).\n\n\"Peace Through Strength\" appeared in the Republican Party platforms of 1980, 1984, 1988, 1992, 1996, 2000, 2008, 2012, 2016.\n\nOn assuming office in January 2017, President Trump cited the idea of \"Peace Through Strength\" as central to his overall \"America First\" foreign policy.\n\nFor Andrew Bacevich, \"belief in the efficacy of military power almost inevitably breeds the temptation to put that power to work. 'Peace through strength' easily enough becomes 'peace through war.'\"\n\nJim George of Australian National University used the term to describe part of what he argued was the Straussian and neoconservative foreign policy of the George W. Bush administration.\n\nThe mock inversion \"strength through peace\" has been used on occasion to draw criticism to the militaristic system of diplomacy advocated by \"peace through strength\". Ohio Congressman Dennis Kucinich adopted the slogan \"Strength Through Peace\" during his 2008 Presidential run, as part of his platform as a peace candidate in opposition to the Iraq War.\n\nDuring Reagan's presidency, the non-profit American Security Council Foundation (ASCF) and its for-profit direct-mail provider, Communications Corporation of America, sought to influence United States foreign policy by promoting the idea, but after the Soviet collapse of 1991 ASCF fell into obscurity while other organizations continued to promote the slogan. The Heritage Foundation and the Center for Security Policy (CSP) have also used the term in print. The ASCF registered a trademark for the phrase in April 2011. In September 2012, ASCF filed a trademark infringement lawsuit against CSP and Frank Gaffney, prompting the \"Washington City Paper\" to ridicule ASCF's Director of Operations, Gary James, for editing the online encyclopedia Wikipedia article titled 'Peace through strength' so that it was \"drenched in ... ASCF references\". Following a counterclaim by the CSP alleging that the trademark application had been fraudulent, in August 2013 the ACSF announced that it had settled the lawsuit with the CSP and would cancel its trademark claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "34803235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34803235", "title": "Petroleum licensing", "text": "Petroleum licensing\n\nPetroleum licensing or exploration license is the act of giving licenses (geographical areas at land or sea) to a company or a joint venture allowing them to search for commercially feasible deposits for the extraction of petroleum.\n\nEach sovereign country distributes licenses in what is typically called a licensing round. The procedure for such, can greatly vary from country to country. The largest change is usually if it is a bid system or a grant system.\nIn the bid system, each company or joint venture will offer a bid to gain the rights for the petroleum exploration at the license for a limited period of time. The highest bid, will obtain the rights. \nIn the grant system, the license will be granted to the company or joint venture that shows the highest interest and ability for the exploration of the license. This can be shown by the company experience, projected plan for the exploration (by high investment) and or longest presence on the country as a petroleum exploration company.\n\n\nWhen a petroleum license is granted, the company or join venture is given a limited time for the exploration of the license. If after the limited time, the company has not discovered or performed its minimal obligations (usually agreed with the government as a minimum number of exploration wells and investment on seismic ) the license will be relinquished.\nRelinquished licenses can be re-attributed in next licensing rounds, or even kept as relinquished if the government believes there is little interest on that area for the petroleum exploration.\n\n"}
{"id": "32720082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32720082", "title": "Phra Paisal Visalo", "text": "Phra Paisal Visalo\n\nPhra Paisal Visalo is the abbot of Wat Pasukato in Chaiyaphum province of Thailand. He was involved in student activism and human rights protection before entering the monkhood in 1983. He is the co-founder of Sekiyadhamma, a network of socially engaged monks all over the country. Besides writing and editing books on environment and Buddhism, he holds training courses on nonviolence and meditation as well. He was recently the recipient of the Asian Public Intellectual Fellowship of the Nippon Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21243439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21243439", "title": "Pocket litter", "text": "Pocket litter\n\nPocket litter is material, including notes scribbled on scraps of paper, that accumulates in an individual's pockets. It can include identity cards, transportation tickets, personal photographs, computer files and similar material.\n\nCounter-terrorism analysts report that the analysis of pocket litter can be an important tool for confirming or refuting suspects' accounts of themselves.\n\nThe term was used as early as 1973, by Watergate conspirator E. Howard Hunt.\n\nThe Combatting Terrorism Center celebrated the first anniversary of the killing of Osama bin Laden by releasing documents seized from Osama bin Laden's Abbottabad home.\nThe \"Associated Press\" reported that SEAL Team 6 had been specially trained to search for documents and pocket litter \"that might produce leads to other terrorists.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11288056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11288056", "title": "R4 nuclear reactor", "text": "R4 nuclear reactor\n\nR4 nuclear reactor was a nuclear reactor built at Marviken and the fourth nuclear reactor built in Sweden. It was heavy water moderated and intended for the dual role of 130MWe of power generation as well as plutonium production. It had a central role in the Swedish nuclear weapon programme. During the mid 1960s, the social democratic government officially abandoned the project of designing Swedish nuclear weapons and the Marviken-plant became derelict. It was never loaded with fuel, and the project was cancelled in 1970.\n\nThe turbine hall was subsequently used for an oil-fired power station, and the pressure vessel and containment building were subsequently used for experiments into reactor behaviour under accident conditions.\n\nThe Nuclear reactor, the oil fired power station and surronding 250 hectares of land and water was acquired by Synthesis Real Estate during 2018.\n\nThis reactor was built as part of the budding nuclear program for Sweden. This reactor's construction began some time during the Cold War(presumably the 1960s). The large facility was intended to bring power as well as provide plutonium for this upcoming nuclear program. Though, the construction ended in the 1960s, when the nuclear ambition of Sweden was killed. Part of the plant was later used as an oil-fired plant, but the large building remains an unused structure to this day.\n\nThe reactor was later used to test nuclear safety equipment, as well as the behavior of nuclear reactors.\n\n"}
{"id": "26590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26590", "title": "Relay", "text": "Relay\n\nA relay is an electrically operated switch. Many relays use an electromagnet to mechanically operate a switch, but other operating principles are also used, such as solid-state relays. Relays are used where it is necessary to control a circuit by a separate low-power signal, or where several circuits must be controlled by one signal. The first relays were used in long distance telegraph circuits as amplifiers: they repeated the signal coming in from one circuit and re-transmitted it on another circuit. Relays were used extensively in telephone exchanges and early computers to perform logical operations.\n\nA type of relay that can handle the high power required to directly control an electric motor or other loads is called a contactor. Solid-state relays control power circuits with no moving parts, instead using a semiconductor device to perform switching. Relays with calibrated operating characteristics and sometimes multiple operating coils are used to protect electrical circuits from overload or faults; in modern electric power systems these functions are performed by digital instruments still called \"protective relays\".\n\nMagnetic latching relays require one pulse of coil power to move their contacts in one direction, and another, redirected pulse to move them back. Repeated pulses from the same input have no effect. Magnetic latching relays are useful in applications where interrupted power should not be able to transition the contacts.\n\nMagnetic latching relays can have either single or dual coils. On a single coil device, the relay will operate in one direction when power is applied with one polarity, and will reset when the polarity is reversed. On a dual coil device, when polarized voltage is applied to the reset coil the contacts will transition. AC controlled magnetic latch relays have single coils that employ steering diodes to differentiate between operate and reset commands.\n\nIn 1833, Carl Friedrich Gauss and Wilhelm Weber developed an electromagnetic relay.\n\nAmerican scientist Joseph Henry is often claimed to have invented a relay in 1835 in order to improve his version of the electrical telegraph, developed earlier in 1831.\n\nIt is claimed that English inventor Edward Davy \"certainly invented the electric relay\" in his electric telegraph c.1835.\n\nA simple device, which is now called a relay, was included in the original 1840 telegraph patent of Samuel Morse. The mechanism described acted as a digital amplifier, repeating the telegraph signal, and thus allowing signals to be propagated as far as desired.\n\nThe word \"relay\" appears in the context of electromagnetic operations from 1860.\n\nA simple electromagnetic relay consists of a coil of wire wrapped around a soft iron core (a solenoid), an iron yoke which provides a low reluctance path for magnetic flux, a movable iron armature, and one or more sets of contacts (there are two contacts in the relay pictured). The armature is hinged to the yoke and mechanically linked to one or more sets of moving contacts. The armature is held in place by a spring so that when the relay is de-energized there is an air gap in the magnetic circuit. In this condition, one of the two sets of contacts in the relay pictured is closed, and the other set is open. Other relays may have more or fewer sets of contacts depending on their function. The relay in the picture also has a wire connecting the armature to the yoke. This ensures continuity of the circuit between the moving contacts on the armature, and the circuit track on the printed circuit board (PCB) via the yoke, which is soldered to the PCB.\n\nWhen an electric current is passed through the coil it generates a magnetic field that activates the armature, and the consequent movement of the movable contact(s) either makes or breaks (depending upon construction) a connection with a fixed contact. If the set of contacts was closed when the relay was de-energized, then the movement opens the contacts and breaks the connection, and vice versa if the contacts were open. When the current to the coil is switched off, the armature is returned by a force, approximately half as strong as the magnetic force, to its relaxed position. Usually this force is provided by a spring, but gravity is also used commonly in industrial motor starters. Most relays are manufactured to operate quickly. In a low-voltage application this reduces noise; in a high voltage or current application it reduces arcing.\n\nWhen the coil is energized with direct current, a diode is often placed across the coil to dissipate the energy from the collapsing magnetic field at deactivation, which would otherwise generate a voltage spike dangerous to semiconductor circuit components. Such diodes were not widely used before the application of transistors as relay drivers, but soon became ubiquitous as early germanium transistors were easily destroyed by this surge. Some automotive relays include a diode inside the relay case.\n\nIf the relay is driving a large, or especially a reactive load, there may be a similar problem of surge currents around the relay output contacts. In this case a snubber circuit (a capacitor and resistor in series) across the contacts may absorb the surge. Suitably rated capacitors and the associated resistor are sold as a single packaged component for this commonplace use.\n\nIf the coil is designed to be energized with alternating current (AC), some method is used to split the flux into two out-of-phase components which add together, increasing the minimum pull on the armature during the AC cycle. Typically this is done with a small copper \"shading ring\" crimped around a portion of the core that creates the delayed, out-of-phase component, which holds the contacts during the zero crossings of the control voltage.\n\nContact materials for relays vary by application. Materials with low contact resistance may be oxidized by the air, or may tend to \"stick\" instead of cleanly parting when opening. Contact material may be optimized for low electrical resistance, high strength to withstand repeated operations, or high capacity to withstand the heat of an arc. Where very low resistance is required, or low thermally-induced voltages are desired, gold-plated contacts may be used, along with palladium and other non-oxidizing, semi-precious metals. Silver or silver-plated contacts are used for signal switching. Mercury-wetted relays make and break circuits using a thin, self-renewing film of liquid mercury. For higher-power relays switching many amperes, such as motor circuit contatctors, contacts are made with a mixtures of silver and cadmium oxide, providing low contact resistance and high resistance to the heat of arcing. Contacts used in circuits carrying scores or hundreds of amperes may include additional structures for heat dissipation and management of the arc produced when interrupting the circuit. Some relays have field-replaceable contacts, such as certain machine tool relays; these may be replaced when worn out, or changed between normally open and normally closed state, to allow for changes in the controlled circuit.\n\nWhere radio transmitters and receivers share one antenna, often a coaxial relay is used as a TR (transmit-receive) relay, which switches the antenna from the receiver to the transmitter. This protects the receiver from the high power of the transmitter. Such relays are often used in transceivers which combine transmitter and receiver in one unit. The relay contacts are designed not to reflect any radio frequency power back toward the source, and to provide very high isolation between receiver and transmitter terminals. The characteristic impedance of the relay is matched to the transmission line impedance of the system, for example, 50 ohms.\n\nA contactor is a heavy-duty relay with higher current ratings, used for switching electric motors and lighting loads. Continuous current ratings for common contactors range from 10 amps to several hundred amps. High-current contacts are made with alloys containing silver. The unavoidable arcing causes the contacts to oxidize; however, silver oxide is still a good conductor. Contactors with overload protection devices are often used to start motors.\n\nA 'force-guided contacts relay' has relay contacts that are mechanically linked together, so that when the relay coil is energized or de-energized, all of the linked contacts move together. If one set of contacts in the relay becomes immobilized, no other contact of the same relay will be able to move. The function of force-guided contacts is to enable the safety circuit to check the status of the relay. Force-guided contacts are also known as \"positive-guided contacts\", \"captive contacts\", \"locked contacts\", \"mechanically linked contacts\", or \"safety relays\".\n\nThese safety relays have to follow design rules and manufacturing rules that are defined in one main machinery standard EN 50205 : Relays with forcibly guided (mechanically linked) contacts. These rules for the safety design are the one that are defined in type B standards such as EN 13849-2 as Basic safety principles and Well-tried safety principles for machinery that applies to all machines.\n\nForce-guided contacts by themselves can not guarantee that all contacts are in the same state, however they do guarantee, subject to no gross mechanical fault, that no contacts are in opposite states. Otherwise, a relay with several normally open (NO) contacts may stick when energised, with some contacts closed and others still slightly open, due to mechanical tolerances. Similarly, a relay with several normally closed (NC) contacts may stick to the unenergised position, so that when energised, the circuit through one set of contacts is broken, with a marginal gap, while the other remains closed. By introducing both NO and NC contacts, or more commonly, changeover contacts, on the same relay, it then becomes possible to guarantee that if any NC contact is closed, all NO contacts are open, and conversely, if any NO contact is closed, all NC contacts are open. It is not possible to reliably ensure that any particular contact is closed, except by potentially intrusive and safety-degrading sensing of its circuit conditions, however in safety systems it is usually the NO state that is most important, and as explained above, this is reliably verifiable by detecting the closure of a contact of opposite sense.\n\nForce-guided contact relays are made with different main contact sets, either NO, NC or changeover, and one or more auxiliary contact sets, often of reduced current or voltage rating, used for the monitoring system. Contacts may be all NO, all NC, changeover, or a mixture of these, for the monitoring contacts, so that the safety system designer can select the correct configuration for the particular application. Safety relays are used as part of an engineered safety system.\n\nA \"latching relay\" (also called \"latch\", \"impulse\", \"bistable\", \"keep\", or \"stay\" relays) maintains either contact position indefinitely without power applied to the coil. The advantage is that one coil consumes power only for an instant while the relay is being switched, and the relay contacts retain this setting across a power outage. A latching relay allows remote control of building lighting without the hum that may be produced from a continuously (AC) energized coil.\n\nIn one mechanism, two opposing coils with an over-center spring or permanent magnet hold the contacts in position after the coil is de-energized. A pulse to one coil turns the relay on and a pulse to the opposite coil turns the relay off. This type is widely used where control is from simple switches or single-ended outputs of a control system, and such relays are found in avionics and numerous industrial applications.\n\nAnother latching type has a remanent core that retains the contacts in the operated position by the remanent magnetism in the core. This type requires a current pulse of opposite polarity to release the contacts. A variation uses a permanent magnet that produces part of the force required to close the contact; the coil supplies sufficient force to move the contact open or closed by aiding or opposing the field of the permanent magnet. A polarity controlled relay needs changeover switches or an H bridge drive circuit to control it. The relay may be less expensive than other types, but this is partly offset by the increased costs in the external circuit.\n\nIn another type, a ratchet relay has a ratchet mechanism that holds the contacts closed after the coil is momentarily energized. A second impulse, in the same or a separate coil, releases the contacts. This type may be found in certain cars, for headlamp dipping and other functions where alternating operation on each switch actuation is needed.\n\nA stepping relay is a specialized kind of multi-way latching relay designed for early automatic telephone exchanges.\n\nAn earth leakage circuit breaker includes a specialized latching relay.\n\nVery early computers often stored bits in a magnetically latching relay, such as ferreed or the later remreed in the 1ESS switch.\n\nSome early computers used ordinary relays as a kind of latch—they store bits in ordinary wire spring relays or reed relays by feeding an output wire back as an input, resulting in a feedback loop or sequential circuit. Such an electrically latching relay requires continuous power to maintain state, unlike magnetically latching relays or mechanically racheting relays.\n\nIn computer memories, latching relays and other relays were replaced by delay line memory, which in turn was replaced by a series of ever-faster and ever-smaller memory technologies.\n\nA machine tool relay is a type standardized for industrial control of machine tools, transfer machines, and other sequential control. They are characterized by a large number of contacts (sometimes extendable in the field) which are easily converted from normally open to normally closed status, easily replaceable coils, and a form factor that allows compactly installing many relays in a control panel. Although such relays once were the backbone of automation in such industries as automobile assembly, the programmable logic controller (PLC) mostly displaced the machine tool relay from sequential control applications.\n\nA relay allows circuits to be switched by electrical equipment: for example, a timer circuit with a relay could switch power at a preset time. For many years relays were the standard method of controlling industrial electronic systems. A number of relays could be used together to carry out complex functions (relay logic). The principle of relay logic is based on relays which energize and de-energize associated contacts. Relay logic is the predecessor of ladder logic, which is commonly used in programmable logic controllers.\n\nA mercury relay is a relay that uses mercury as the switching element. They are used where contact erosion would be a problem for conventional relay contacts. Owing to environmental considerations about significant amount of mercury used and modern alternatives, they are now comparatively uncommon.\n\nA mercury-wetted reed relay is a form of reed relay in which the contacts are wetted with mercury. Such relays are used to switch low-voltage signals (one volt or less) where the mercury reduces the contact resistance and associated voltage drop, for low-current signals where surface contamination may make for a poor contact, or for high-speed applications where the mercury eliminates contact bounce. Mercury wetted relays are position-sensitive and must be mounted according to the manufacturer's specifications to work properly. Because of the toxicity and expense of liquid mercury, these relays are now rarely used.\n\nThe mercury-wetted relay has one particular advantage, in that the contact closure appears to be virtually instantaneous, as the mercury globules on each contact coalesce. The current rise time through the contacts is generally considered to be a few picoseconds, however in a practical circuit it will be limited by the inductance of the contacts and wiring. It was quite common, before the restrictions on the use of mercury, to use a mercury-wetted relay in the laboratory as a convenient means of generating fast rise time pulses, however although the rise time may be picoseconds, the exact timing of the event is, like all other types of relay, subject to considerable jitter, possibly milliseconds, due to mechanical imperfections.\n\nThe same coalescence process causes another effect, which is a nuisance in some applications. The contact resistance is not stable immediately after contact closure, and drifts, mostly downwards, for several seconds after closure, the change perhaps being 0.5 ohm.\n\nMulti-voltage relays are devices designed to work for wide voltage ranges such as 24 to 240 VAC and VDC and wide frequency ranges such as 0 to 300 Hz. They are indicated for use in installations that do not have stable supply voltages.\n\nElectric motors need overcurrent protection to prevent damage from over-loading the motor, or to protect against short circuits in connecting cables or internal faults in the motor windings. The overload sensing devices are a form of heat operated relay where a coil heats a bimetallic strip, or where a solder pot melts, to operate auxiliary contacts. These auxiliary contacts are in series with the motor's contactor coil, so they turn off the motor when it overheats.\n\nThis thermal protection operates relatively slowly allowing the motor to draw higher starting currents before the protection relay will trip. Where the overload relay is exposed to the same ambient temperature as the motor, a useful though crude compensation for motor ambient temperature is provided.\n\nThe other common overload protection system uses an electromagnet coil in series with the motor circuit that directly operates contacts. This is similar to a control relay but requires a rather high fault current to operate the contacts. To prevent short over current spikes from causing nuisance triggering the armature movement is damped with a dashpot. The thermal and magnetic overload detections are typically used together in a motor protection relay.\n\nElectronic overload protection relays measure motor current and can estimate motor winding temperature using a \"thermal model\" of the motor armature system that can be set to provide more accurate motor protection. Some motor protection relays include temperature detector inputs for direct measurement from a thermocouple or resistance thermometer sensor embedded in the winding.\n\nA polarized relay places the armature between the poles of a permanent magnet to increase sensitivity. Polarized relays were used in middle 20th Century telephone exchanges to detect faint pulses and correct telegraphic distortion.\n\nA reed relay is a reed switch enclosed in a solenoid. The switch has a set of contacts inside an evacuated or inert gas-filled glass tube which protects the contacts against atmospheric corrosion; the contacts are made of magnetic material that makes them move under the influence of the field of the enclosing solenoid or an external magnet.\n\nReed relays can switch faster than larger relays and require very little power from the control circuit. However, they have relatively low switching current and voltage ratings. Though rare, the reeds can become magnetized over time, which makes them stick 'on' even when no current is present; changing the orientation of the reeds with respect to the solenoid's magnetic field can resolve this problem.\n\nSealed contacts with mercury-wetted contacts have longer operating lives and less contact chatter than any other kind of relay.\n\nSafety relays are devices which generally implement safety functions. In the event of a hazard, the task of such a safety function is to use appropriate measures to reduce the existing risk to an acceptable level.\n\nA solid-state contactor is a heavy-duty solid state relay, including the necessary heat sink, used where frequent on-off cycles are required, such as with electric heaters, small electric motors, and lighting loads. There are no moving parts to wear out and there is no contact bounce due to vibration. They are activated by AC control signals or DC control signals from programmable logic controllers (PLCs), PCs, transistor-transistor logic (TTL) sources, or other microprocessor and microcontroller controls.\n\nA solid-state relay (SSR) is a solid state electronic component that provides a function similar to an electromechanical relay but does not have any moving components, increasing long-term reliability. A solid-state relay uses a thyristor, TRIAC or other solid-state switching device, activated by the control signal, to switch the controlled load, instead of a solenoid. An optocoupler (a light-emitting diode (LED) coupled with a photo transistor) can be used to isolate control and controlled circuits.\n\nA static relay consists of electronic circuitry to emulate all those characteristics which are achieved by moving parts in an electro-magnetic relay.\n\nTiming relays are arranged for an intentional delay in operating their contacts. A very short (a fraction of a second) delay would use a copper disk between the armature and moving blade assembly. Current flowing in the disk maintains magnetic field for a short time, lengthening release time. For a slightly longer (up to a minute) delay, a dashpot is used. A dashpot is a piston filled with fluid that is allowed to escape slowly; both air-filled and oil-filled dashpots are used. The time period can be varied by increasing or decreasing the flow rate. For longer time periods, a mechanical clockwork timer is installed. Relays may be arranged for a fixed timing period, or may be field adjustable, or remotely set from a control panel. Modern microprocessor-based timing relays provide precision timing over a great range.\n\nSome relays are constructed with a kind of \"shock absorber\" mechanism attached to the armature which prevents immediate, full motion when the coil is either energized or de-energized. This addition gives the relay the property of time-delay actuation. Time-delay relays can be constructed to delay armature motion on coil energization, de-energization, or both.\n\nTime-delay relay contacts must be specified not only as either normally open or normally closed, but whether the delay operates in the direction of closing or in the direction of opening. The following is a description of the four basic types of time-delay relay contacts.\n\nFirst we have the normally open, timed-closed (NOTC) contact. This type of contact is normally open when the coil is unpowered (de-energized). The contact is closed by the application of power to the relay coil, but only after the coil has been continuously powered for the specified amount of time. In other words, the direction of the contact's motion (either to close or to open) is identical to a regular NO contact, but there is a delay in closing direction. Because the delay occurs in the direction of coil energization, this type of contact is alternatively known as a normally open, on-delay.\n\nA sensitive relay having its contacts mounted in a highly evacuated glass housing, to permit handling radio-frequency voltages as high as 20,000 volts without flashover between contacts even though contact spacing is but a few hundredths of an inch when open.\n\nSince relays are switches, the terminology applied to switches is also applied to relays; a relay switches one or more \"poles\", each of whose contacts can be \"thrown\" by energizing the coil. Normally open (NO) contacts connect the circuit when the relay is activated; the circuit is disconnected when the relay is inactive. Normally closed (NC) contacts disconnect the circuit when the relay is activated; the circuit is connected when the relay is inactive. All of the contact forms involve combinations of NO and NC connections.\n\nThe National Association of Relay Manufacturers and its successor, the Relay and Switch Industry Association define 23 distinct electrical contact forms found in relays and switches. Of these, the following are commonly encountered:\n\nThe \"S\" (\"single\") or \"D\" (\"double\") designator for the pole count may be replaced with a number, indicating multiple contacts connected to a single actuator. For example, 4PDT indicates a four-pole double-throw relay that has 12 switching terminals.\n\nEN 50005 are among applicable standards for relay terminal numbering; a typical EN 50005-compliant SPDT relay's terminals would be numbered 11, 12, 14, A1 and A2 for the C, NC, NO, and coil connections, respectively.\n\nDIN 72552 defines contact numbers in relays for automotive use;\n\nRelays are used wherever it is necessary to control a high power or high voltage circuit with a low power circuit, especially when galvanic isolation is desirable. The first application of relays was in long telegraph lines, where the weak signal received at an intermediate station could control a contact, regenerating the signal for further transmission. High-voltage or high-current devices can be controlled with small, low voltage wiring and pilots switches. Operators can be isolated from the high voltage circuit. Low power devices such as microprocessors can drive relays to control electrical loads beyond their direct drive capability. In an automobile, a starter relay allows the high current of the cranking motor to be controlled with small wiring and contacts in the ignition key.\n\nElectromechanical switching systems including Strowger and Crossbar telephone exchanges made extensive use of relays in ancillary control circuits. The Relay Automatic Telephone Company also manufactured telephone exchanges based solely on relay switching techniques designed by . The first public relay based telephone exchange in the UK was installed in Fleetwood on 15 July 1922 and remained in service until 1959.\n\nThe use of relays for the logical control of complex switching systems like telephone exchanges was studied by Claude Shannon, who formalized the application of Boolean algebra to relay circuit design in A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits. Relays can perform the basic operations of Boolean combinatorial logic. For example, the boolean AND function is realised by connecting normally open relay contacts in series, the OR function by connecting normally open contacts in parallel. Inversion of a logical input can be done with a normally closed contact. Relays were used for control of automated systems for machine tools and production lines. The Ladder programming language is often used for designing relay logic networks.\n\nEarly electro-mechanical computers such as the ARRA, Harvard Mark II, Zuse Z2, and Zuse Z3 used relays for logic and working registers. However, electronic devices proved faster and easier to use.\n\nBecause relays are much more resistant than semiconductors to nuclear radiation, they are widely used in safety-critical logic, such as the control panels of radioactive waste-handling machinery. Electromechanical protective relays are used to detect overload and other faults on electrical lines by opening and closing circuit breakers.\n\nSelection of an appropriate relay for a particular application requires evaluation of many different factors:\nThere are many considerations involved in the correct selection of a control relay for a particular application. These considerations include factors such as speed of operation, sensitivity, and hysteresis. Although typical control relays operate in the 5 ms to 20 ms range, relays with switching speeds as fast as 100 us are available. Reed relays which are actuated by low currents and switch fast are suitable for controlling small currents.\n\nAs with any switch, the contact current (unrelated to the coil current) must not exceed a given value to avoid damage. In high-inductance circuits such as motors, other issues must be addressed. When an inductance is connected to a power source, an input surge current or electromotor starting current larger than the steady-state current exists. When the circuit is broken, the current cannot change instantaneously, which creates a potentially damaging arc across the separating contacts.\n\nConsequently, for relays used to control inductive loads, we must specify the maximum current that may flow through the relay contacts when it actuates, the \"make rating\"; the continuous rating; and the \"break rating\". The make rating may be several times larger than the continuous rating, which is itself larger than the break rating.\n\nSwitching while \"wet\" (under load) causes undesired arcing between the contacts, eventually leading to contacts that weld shut or contacts that fail due to a buildup of surface damage caused by the destructive arc energy.\n\nInside the 1ESS switch matrix switch and certain other high-reliability designs, the reed switches are always switched \"dry\" (without load) to avoid that problem, leading to much longer contact life.\n\nWithout adequate contact protection, the occurrence of electric current arcing causes significant degradation of the contacts, which suffer significant and visible damage. Every time the relay contacts open or close under load, an electrical arc can occur between the contacts of the relay, either a \"break\" arc (when opening), or a \"make\" / \"bounce\" arc (when closing). In many situations, the \"break\" arc is more energetic and thus more destructive, in particular with resistive-type loads. However, inductive loads can cause more destructive \"make\" arcs. For example, with standard electric motors, the start-up (inrush) current tends to be much greater than the running current. This translates into significant \"make\" arcs. \nDuring an arc event, the heat energy contained in the electrical arc is very high (tens of thousands of degrees Fahrenheit), causing the metal on the contact surfaces to melt, pool, and migrate with the current. The extremely high temperature of the arc cracks the surrounding gas molecules, creating ozone, carbon monoxide, and other compounds. Over time, the arc energy slowly destroys the contact metal, causing some material to escape into the air as fine particulate matter. This action causes the material in the contacts to degrade, resulting in device failure. This contact degradation drastically limits the overall life of a relay to a range of about 10,000 to 100,000 operations, a level far below the mechanical life of the same device, which can be in excess of 20 million operations.\n\nFor protection of electrical apparatus and transmission lines, electromechanical relays with accurate operating characteristics were used to detect overload, short-circuits, and other faults. While many such relays remain in use, digital protective relays now provide equivalent and more complex protective functions.\n\nRailway signalling relays are large considering the mostly small voltages (less than 120 V) and currents (perhaps 100 mA) that they switch. Contacts are widely spaced to prevent flashovers and short circuits over a lifetime that may exceed fifty years.\n\nSince rail signal circuits must be highly reliable, special techniques are used to detect and prevent failures in the relay system. To protect against false feeds, double switching relay contacts are often used on both the positive and negative side of a circuit, so that two false feeds are needed to cause a false signal. Not all relay circuits can be proved so there is reliance on construction features such as carbon to silver contacts to resist lightning induced contact welding and to provide AC immunity.\n\nOpto-isolators are also used in some instances with railway signalling, especially where only a single contact is to be switched.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7705225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7705225", "title": "Responsible Care", "text": "Responsible Care\n\nStarted in Canada in 1985, Responsible Care is a global, voluntary initiative developed autonomously by the chemical industry for the chemical industry. It runs in 67 countries whose combined chemical industries account for nearly 90% of global chemical production. 96 of the 100 largest chemical producers in the world have adopted Responsible Care.\n\nIt stands for the chemical industry's desire to improve health, safety, and environmental performance.\n\nThe signatory chemical companies agree to commit themselves to improve their performances in the fields of environmental protection, occupational safety and health protection, plant safety, product stewardship and logistics, as well as to continuously improve dialog with their neighbors and the public, independent from legal requirements.\n\nAs part of Responsible Care initiative, the International Council of Chemical Associations introduced the Global Product Strategy in 2006.\n\nCritical analyses of Responsible Care have been done by Andrew King and Michael Lenox, Michael Givel, and Moffet, Bregha and Middelkoop\n\nResponsible Care was launched by the Chemistry Industry Association of Canada (formerly the Canadian Chemical Producers' Association - CCPA) in 1985. The scheme evolved, and, in 2006, The Responsible Care Global Charter was launched at the UN-led International Conference on Chemicals Management in Dubai.\n\nPoisoning of river Elbe by the company Draslovka Kolin a.s., a Responsible Care certified company or hiding of 20 mt leakage of naphthalene by the company Deza, also a Responsible Care company, questions whether the Responsible Care brings any real improvement or is just a marketing tool.\n\n"}
{"id": "1597180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597180", "title": "Rock mass classification", "text": "Rock mass classification\n\nRock mass classification systems are used for various engineering design and stability analysis. These are based on empirical relations between rock mass parameters and engineering applications, such as tunnels, slopes, foundations, and excavatability. The first rock mass classification system in geotechnical engineering was proposed in 1946 for tunnels with steel set support.\n\nIn engineering in rock, three design strategies can be distinguished: analytical, empirical, and numerical. Empirical, i.e. rock mass classification, methods are extensively used for feasibility and pre-design studies, and often also for the final design.\n\nThe objectives of rock mass classifications are (after Bieniawski 1989):\n\n\nThe main benefits of rock mass classifications:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56131377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56131377", "title": "Sachal Energy Wind Farm", "text": "Sachal Energy Wind Farm\n\nSachal Energy Wind Farm is an operational wind energy farm of 49.5-megawatt. It is owned by Sachal Energy, which is whole-subsidiary of Arif Habib Group.\n\nIt is part of China–Pakistan Economic Corridor.\n"}
{"id": "42701703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42701703", "title": "Samuel Peal", "text": "Samuel Peal\n\nSamuel Peal was a British manufacturer who developed a method of waterproofing cloth by treating it with a mixture of turpentine and rubber.\n"}
{"id": "23834576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23834576", "title": "Shenhua CTL", "text": "Shenhua CTL\n\nShenhua CTL (also known as Ningxia Hui CTL, ) is a planned coal liquefaction plant in Ningdong, Ningxia, China. Its planned capacity is . The liquefaction plant is to use a Sasol's indirect liquefaction technology, based on the Fischer–Tropsch process.\n\nThe feasibility study was carried out by Foster Wheeler and Wuhuan Engineering. The constriction is to start in October 2010 and it expected to cost US$7 billion. The project was developed by Sasol and Ningxia Coal Industry Group, a subsidiary of Shenhua Group. The agreement between companies was signed on 21 June 2006. In September 2011, Sasol pull back from the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "533150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533150", "title": "Short ton", "text": "Short ton\n\nThe short ton is a unit of mass equal to 2,000 pounds-mass (907.18474 kg). The unit is most commonly used in the United States where it is known simply as the \"ton\". \n\nThe short ton sometimes describes force. One short-ton contains 2,000 pounds-mass, which converted into slugs and multiplied by one standard gravity applies a weight of 2,000 pounds-force as per Newton's second law of motion. \n\nIn the United States, a short ton is usually known simply as a \"ton\", without distinguishing it from the tonne (), known there as the \"metric ton\", or the long ton also known as the \"Imperial ton\" (). There are, however, some U.S. applications where unspecified \"tons\" normally means long tons (for example, naval ships) or metric tons (world grain production figures).\n\nBoth the long and short ton are defined as 20 hundredweights, but a hundredweight is in the U.S. system (short or net hundredweight) and in the imperial system (long or gross hundredweight).\n\nA short ton–force is .\n\nIn the United Kingdom, short tons are rarely used. The word \"ton\" is taken to refer to a long ton, and metric tons are distinguished by the \"tonne\" spelling. Most Commonwealth countries followed British practice with the exception of Canada, which used short tons as well as long tons. Canada now predominantly uses metric tons (tonnes).\n\n"}
{"id": "10798875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10798875", "title": "Starlite", "text": "Starlite\n\nStarlite is a material claimed to be able to withstand and insulate from extreme heat. It was invented by amateur chemist and hairdresser Maurice Ward (1933–2011) during the 1970s and 1980s, and received significant publicity after coverage of the material aired in 1990 on the science and technology show \"Tomorrow's World\". The name Starlite was coined by Ward's granddaughter Kimberly.\n\nDespite interest from NASA and other major technological companies, Ward never revealed the composition of Starlite, which is still unknown. Ward once mentioned that his close family knows the fabrication process, but after his death neither his wife nor any of his four daughters have produced any sample to demonstrate that they know the process.\nUnder tests, Starlite was claimed to be able to withstand attack by a laser beam that could produce a temperature of 10,000 degrees Celsius. Live demonstrations on \"Tomorrow's World\" and BBC Radio 4 showed that an egg coated in Starlight could remain raw, and cold enough to be picked up with a bare hand, even after five minutes in the flame of a blowtorch. It would also prevent a blowtorch from damaging a human hand. When heat is applied, the material chars, which creates an expanding low density foam of carbon which is very thermally resistant.\n\nFormer Chief Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence Sir Ronald Mason noted, \"Maurice sometimes speaks scientific cobblers, but this is really the most remarkable material\".\n\nMaterials scientist Mark Miodownik described Starlite as one of the materials he would most like to see for himself. Miodownik compares Starlite to paints that have an intumescent quality.\n\nNASA spokesman Rudi Narangor said of their discussions with Ward, \"We have done a lot of evaluation and ...we know all the tremendous possibilities that this material has.\"\n\nWard allowed various organisations such as the Atomic Weapons Establishment and ICI to conduct tests on samples, but did not permit them to retain samples for fear of reverse engineering. Ward maintained that his invention was worth billions and he insisted he retain 51% ownership of the formula – a move that may have hindered Starlite's commercialisation.\n\nAlthough Ward claimed discussions with various organisations such as NASA, he was very protective of the composition for fear of losing control of the rights to the material (not even letting samples out of his sight). By the time of his death in May 2011, there appeared to have been no commercialisation of Starlite, and the formulation of the material has not been released to the public. According to a 2016 broadcast of the BBC programme \"The Naked Scientists\", Ward took his secrets with him when he died.\n\nIn 2011 an anonymous contributor to \"The Guardian\"s Notes & Queries section said that the main issue was that Starlite came in the form of powder that had to be mixed with Polyvinyl acetate (PVA) glue to be coated, but that such coating had a very limited lifespan. He also says that \"this is the true reason why Mr Ward was never able to sell or bring his incomplete product to market.\" This contributor also claims that there was at least one other complete and superior product undergoing tests at the time he published his comment. \n\nStarlite's composition is a closely guarded secret, but it is said to contain a variety of organic polymers and co-polymers with both organic and inorganic additives, including borates and small quantities of ceramics and other special barrier ingredients — up to 21 in all. Perhaps uniquely for a material claimed to be thermal and blast-proof, it is claimed to be not wholly inorganic but up to 90 percent organic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11302607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11302607", "title": "Tarcisio Feitosa da Silva", "text": "Tarcisio Feitosa da Silva\n\nTarcísio Feitosa da Silva is a prominent environmental activist from Brazil, where he is director of the Roman Catholic Church's Pastoral Land Commission. Because of his work with local communities deep in the Amazon jungle in their struggle against illegal commercial logging and mining operations, \"after the American nun Dorothy Stang was shot to death on a jungle road, he replaced her at the top of the death list that loggers, ranchers, miners and land speculators are known to maintain.\"\n\nIn 2006, Mr. da Silva was a recipient of the Goldman Environmental Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "23562433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23562433", "title": "Texas phoenix palm decline", "text": "Texas phoenix palm decline\n\nTexas Phoenix palm decline is a plant disease caused by a phytoplasma, \"Candidatus\" Phytoplasma palmae. It takes its name from the state it was first identified in and the palm species, \"Phoenix\", upon which it was first identified. It is currently found in parts of Florida and Texas.\n\nThe TPPD strain is classified as group 16SrIV, subgroup D (16SrIV-D) and LY:16SrIV-A.\n\nSeveral palms susceptible to the phytoplasma have been documented, including: \"Phoenix canariensis\", \"Phoenix dactylifera\", \"Phoenix sylvestris\", \"Phoenix reclinata\", \"Sabal palmetto\", and \"Syagrus romanzoffiana\". Prior to 2006, lethal yellowing was the only other strain of phytoplasma known to attack palm trees in Florida. The introduction of this disease has left the state of Florida struggling to control the potential damage to palm trees in landscapes statewide.\n\nIt has been observed to almost exclusively attack the Canary Island palm, but is seen on other species. Since 2009, Texas Phoenix palm disease is known to severely affect the \"Phoenix spp.\" and \"Sabal spp.\" palm trees: Canary Island date palm, silver or sylvester date palm, Queen palm, Sabal palm, and cabbage palm. All of these trees have been observed to have the same symptoms. The complete host range of this phytoplasma strain is not known.\n\nIf the palm tree is mature enough to produce fruit, it will experience two major symptoms. Premature drop of the majority or all of the fruit, within a short time period (about three days), is an obvious symptom. Soon after this, the flowers become necrotic. However, these symptoms can only be observed during flowering and fruiting season, and if the flowers have not been trimmed from the tree.\n\nAt any palm age, early infection will show discoloration of the foliage, starting at the tips of the oldest leaves. The leaf colors change from the normal green to different shades of reddish-brown, to dark brown. Declining palm trees are characterized by a large number of discolored leaves in the lower and mid-crown region of the tree.\n\nWhen about a third of the oldest leaves become discolored, the spear leaf will die, displaying a tan, rather than green color. The spear leaf is the youngest leaf, generally seen in the center of the canopy. In obvious situations, the dead spear life can be seen hanging down or broken off of the canopy. This indicates that the apical meristem is dead and there will be no new leaf production or growth. In most cases, without close examination, the spear leaf will not be easy to find or observe if it is still alive. Occasionally, when the spear leaf dies, some palms experience root rot. This is a major symptom that differentiates TPPD from lethal yellowing, since LY does not experience root decay.\n\nA large issue with controlling this disease is that it is difficult to diagnose. The early symptoms may appear to be the cause of 'over-trimming' of the leaves or nutrient deficiency. The progression of the symptoms is from the inside of the tree, out and are not immediate.\n\nThe death of the spear leaf indicates the death of the apical meristem, which is diagnostic for a phytoplasma infection.\n\nSince phytoplasmas are not culturable, a molecular test can be done to confirm its presence. A sample must be sent to a local extension office for testing. To acquire a sample, boring into the trunk must be done with a drill. It is not known how soon the TPPD phytoplasma can be detected from this test, but it is generally not seen in plants without symptoms. Other times, it is not detectable until the spear leaf dies.\n\nThe specific disease cycle for TPPD is not known, since the vector is unidentified. Planthoppers, psyllids, or treehoppers are the suspected carriers. For this reason, a general disease cycle of mollicutes by related insect vectors is described as the cycle for TPPD.\n\nPhytoplasmas colonize in the phloem tissue of their hosts. This allows the pathogen to spread systemically through the vascular system into new leaves of the plant. Since phytoplasmas are not known to survive without their host (plant or insect), the process of the overwintering (unfavorable conditions) stage is unknown. The exact spot in the cycle where the spear leaf dies is not absolute, but it is thought to be early in the disease process.\n\nWhen a healthy insect vector feeds by piercing the vein of a leaf and sucking the phloem sap, the pathogen is ingested into the gut of the insect. Before the infection can be spread from plant to plant, an incubation period is needed for distribution throughout the insect. Once the phytoplasma is ingested from the plant, it multiplies in the gut of the insect, travels into the hemolymph, then to the salivary glands. Here, in high enough concentrations, the phytoplasma is transmitted into new plants when the insect feeds.\n\nThe only area this disease in known to infect is the southern coastal regions of Texas and Florida. It is not known how the phytoplasma reached Florida, but it is likely it was brought over from an unknown insect vector since movement of palms from the Texas coast to Florida is not routine. It is not know whether this phytoplasma prefers the climate of these coastal regions or a specific host. As of now, the only hosts known to carry this disease are a range of palm species.\n\nTo favor development, the area of infection must have a high population of insect vectors (planthoppers, psyllids, or treehoppers) for continuous, successful transmission. Rate of replication depends on the parameter of the incubation period. Depending on the insect vector and temperature, it could be anywhere between 10 (at 30°) and 45 (at 10°) days. The concentration of phytoplasmas, at the salivary glands of the insect vector after incubation period, also varies transmission. The concentration must meet a certain level before the insect transfers the infection into new plants.\n\nThere are two main methods of control for Texas Phoenix palm decline: Removal of dead spear leaves of the palm tree and the application of an antibiotic called oxytetracycline HCl (OTC).\n\nIf the spear leaf dies, there are healthy leaves beneath them, and the control method of implementing the removal of dead spear leaves is to be used. Unless the removal of these dead spear leaves occurs, this gives a chance for the vector to use these diseased spear leaves and transmit the disease to other nearby susceptible palm trees.\n\nIf the spear leaf has not yet been killed by TPPD, antibiotics are added to afflicted palm trees by injecting it into the trunk of the tree. These applications have a liquid composition. They are applied either when the plant is expressing symptoms of TPPD or as a source of protecting known susceptible palm species from ever acquiring the disease. This antibiotic cannot be used on just any palm species. It should rather be used only on prone species palm to TPPD. Over the course of four months these antibiotics will be integrated, if used.\n\nFuture implications that have not been stable in terms of success or effectiveness, but that still hold promise are discovery of resistant strains of palm or control of vector population. These are not used however due to not knowing the complete known palms TPPD effects and the vector not being totally known either.\n\nTexas Phoenix palm decline is classified as a systemic disease and it is known to rapidly kill its hosts. Although it is dispersed around by vectors, at this time it is still unknown as to which what specific vectors exactly are carrying and spreading this disease. The palm disease TPPD has no known cure. In response to the disease outbreak in Texas, namely, quarantines have been set up for various counties (Nueces, Hidalgo, Cameron, Willacy, and various portions of Kleberg county as well). Even more drastic measures have been implemented in Florida, as the entire state is under quarantine for Texas Phoenix palm decline.\n\nThere is large concern for the destruction of the Sabal palm. Given its native status to Florida, its loss could suffer severe consequences to the local ecosystem if there is no reliable management soon.\n"}
{"id": "42469331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42469331", "title": "The Overnighters", "text": "The Overnighters\n\nThe Overnighters is a 2014 American documentary film written, directed and produced by Jesse Moss. The film premiered in competition category of \"U.S. Documentary Competition program\" at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 18, 2014. It won the \"Special Jury Award\" at the festival.\n\nAfter its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival, Drafthouse Films acquired distribution rights of the film. The film was released on October 24, 2014 in United States, with a portion of all box office receipts being donated to North Dakota's local affordable housing charities.\n\nThe film also premiered at 2014 Miami International Film Festival on March 13, 2014 and won a prize at the festival.\n\nThe film depicts the lives of people chasing the dream of high salaries in the North Dakota oil boom, only to discover that affordable housing is almost impossible to find. Much of the focus is on the efforts of local pastor Jay Reinke, who allowed over 1,000 different people to stay at his Williston, North Dakota church over a period of about two years.\n\nThe film received positive response from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a 98% rating based on reviews from 64 critics, with an average score of 8.6/10. Metacritic gives the film a score of 89 based on reviews from 20 critics, indicating \"Universal Acclaim\".\n\nJustin Chang in his review for \"Variety\" said that it is \"[A] tough-minded, admirably unresolved film.\" David Rooney of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film positive review and said that, \"A scenario with present-day echoes of \"The Grapes of Wrath\" yields perceptive insights into the way we view outsiders.\" Katie Walsh from \"Indiewire\" in her review said that, \"The Overnighters is starkly bleak and devastatingly humane, and an indelible American documentary.\" Colin Covert in his review for the \"Minneapolis Star Tribune\" gave the film three and half star out of four and said that, \"The film features stunning third-act revelations that compel viewers to rethink its characters' actions and motivations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43569526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43569526", "title": "Vista Analysis", "text": "Vista Analysis\n\nVista Analysis (Norwegian: \"Vista Analyse AS\") is a Norwegian research and consultancy firm with the main emphasis on economic research, policy analysis and advice, and evaluations. It was established in 2000 and is headquartered at Frogner in Oslo, and focuses on climate, environment and energy, urban and rural development, international development, transport and communications, and welfare state research. The company is owned by several partners. The chairman of the board is the economist Steinar Strøm, a Professor of Economics at the University of Turin and the University of Oslo.\n\nThe company is one of the largest firms providing independent policy analysis, evaluations and research for the Government of Norway. Its regular customers include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security, the Ministry of the Environment, and the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation.\n\nThe institute carried out the much noted evaluation in 2014 of the Norwegian ban on purchasing the services of prostitutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35495221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35495221", "title": "World of Plenty", "text": "World of Plenty\n\nWorld of Plenty is a 1943 British documentary film directed by Paul Rotha for the Ministries of Food and Agriculture. It discusses problems with, and possible improvements to, global food distribution.\n\nAn opening narration explaining that the film's purpose is to examine the \"world strategy of food\", in terms of its production, distribution and consumption. The film is then divided into three parts: \"Food - As It Was\", \"Food - As It Is\" and \"Food - As It Might Be\".\n\n"}
