{"id": "27619637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27619637", "title": "Alexander Murison", "text": "Alexander Murison\n\nA. F. Murison, MA, LLD, KC. (3 March 1847 – 8 June 1934) was an eminent Professor of Roman Law and Jurisprudence at University College, London and at Oxford University. He was a prolific writer for newspapers and journals in a wide variety of subjects with comparatively few publications in his specialism of Roman Law. He collated the text of Theophilus' Greek of Justinian's \"Institutes\" but failed to finish his extensive work in this field. However, his translation of Theophilus was published in 2010 as the parallel English text accompanying the Greek in the new edition. He also wrote two biographical works in Scottish history: \"Sir William Wallace\" (1898) and \"King Robert the Bruce\" (1899) in the \"Famous Scots Series\" published by Oliphant, Anderson and Ferrier. Lack of money took him into journalism and he was editor of the \"Educational Times\" (now the Times Educational Supplement) from 1902 to 1912 and on the staff of the Daily Chronicle. He even had time to enter politics and he stood as a Liberal Party candidate in at least three General Elections: for the Glasgow and Aberdeen Universities constituency in 1906 and for the Glasgow Central constituency in December 1910 and January 1910 and lost on all three occasions to a Conservative candidate. He died on 8 June 1934 at his home in Clapham Common, London.\n\nMurison was born at New Deer, Aberdeenshire, Scotland on 3 March 1847. He was born to a crofting family and looked after cattle as a boy. He won a bursary to Aberdeen Grammar School where he excelled and won a scholarship to Aberdeen University. After achieving a first class honours M.A. degree in classics, he returned to his old school and was an English Master there from 1869 to 1876. He married Elizabeth Logan in 1870 and they had two children, Alexander Logan (1871) and James William (1872). William (as he preferred to be called) became Chief Justice of the Straits Settlements.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41261136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41261136", "title": "Alf Kaartvedt", "text": "Alf Kaartvedt\n\nAlf Kaartvedt (2 March 1921 – 24 August 2013) was a Norwegian historian.\nHe was born in Bergen. He held the dr.philos. degree and was Professor of History at the University of Bergen from 1957 to his retirement in 1988. He was a fellow of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHe was a specialist on Norwegian history around 1900, with titles including \"Kongeriket Norges Hypotekbank 1852–1952\" (1952), \"Kampen mot parlamentarisme 1880–84\" (1956), volume one of \"Stortingets historie\" (1964) and volume one of \"Høyres historie\" (1984), the history of the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "38268340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38268340", "title": "Australian Association for Maritime History", "text": "Australian Association for Maritime History\n\nThe Australian Association for Maritime History (AAMH) is an Australian maritime history organisation.\n\nThe association was formed in May 1978. Its main aim is to promote the study, publication, and general appreciation of maritime history. The eminent American maritime historian John B. Hattendorf considers the AAMH one of the most prominent scholarly organisations in the English-speaking world and the late Professor Frank Broeze of the University of Western Australia considered that the creation of the AAMH contributed to a rising awareness of the significance of the role of the sea to Australian cultural history. The AAMH is not restricted to Australia and Australian maritime history: its membership and field of interest are international in scope. The AAMH is run by an Executive Council that has officers from all Australian States and Territories. It is currently (2018) based in Sydney, New South Wales.\n\nThe AAMH served as the Australian sub-commission of the International Commission for Maritime History until the ICMH merged with the International Economic Maritime History Association to form the International Maritime History Association in 2016. The AAMH also supports lectures, conferences, workshops, publications and book prizes.\n\nThe AAMH co-sponsors with the Australian National Maritime Museum the Frank Broeze Memorial Maritime History Prize, which is awarded for a book treating any aspect of maritime history relating to or impacting on Australia and the Australian Community Maritime History Prize awarded to a regional or local museum or historical society for a publication (book, booklet, educational resource kit, CD, DVD or other media) relating to an aspect of maritime history of that region or community.\n\nThe Frank Broeze Memorial Maritime History book prize is named in honour of the late Frank Broeze. Professor Broeze was a leading maritime historian and one of the founders of AAMH. He served as President of the Association in the 1980s and was the first editor of the Association's journal, \"The Great Circle\".\n\nThe objective of the prizes is to promote a broad view of maritime history and the role of the sea and maritime influences in shaping Australia and its region; that is, the Indian, Pacific and Great Southern Oceans. The AAMH encourages this historical and archaeological approach of investigation and dissemination through its journal.\n\nThere are two categories: the Maritime History Book Prize for commercially published books and the Australian Community Maritime History Prize for works (books, DVDs, pamphlets etc.) by a locally based organisation.\n\n\"The Great Circle\" is the Journal of the Australian Association for Maritime History. \"The Great Circle\" () is a refereed journal and is published twice a year. The journal is archived on JSTOR.\n\nThe AAMH has a quarterly newsletter (named \"Quarterly newsletter\") that was established by its first editor, Vaughan Evans (a founding member of the Association) in 1980, two years after the Association was founded. Both of these events came at a time when the field of maritime history was in its infancy in Australia. Some back issues of the newsletters can be found on the Association's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "22302362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22302362", "title": "Australian frontier wars", "text": "Australian frontier wars\n\nThe Australian frontier wars is a term applied by some historians to violent conflicts between Indigenous Australians and white settlers during the British colonisation of Australia. The first fighting took place several months after the landing of the First Fleet in January 1788 and the last clashes occurred in the early 20th century, as late as 1934. An estimated 20,000 Indigenous Australians and between 2,000 and 2,500 settlers died in the wars . However, recent scholarship on the frontier wars in what is now the state of Queensland indicates that Indigenous fatalities may have been significantly higher. Indeed, while battles and massacres occurred in a number of locations across Australia, they were particularly bloody in Queensland, owing to its comparatively larger pre-contact Indigenous population.\n\nIn 1770 a British expedition under the command of then-Lieutenant James Cook made the first voyage by Europeans along the Australian east coast. On 29 April Cook and a small landing party fired on a group of Dharawal people who sought to prevent the British from landing near their camp at Botany Bay, described by Cook as \"a small village\". Two Dharawal men made threatening gestures and a stone was thrown to underline that the whites were not welcome to land at that spot. Cook then ordered \"a musket to be fired with small-shot\" and the elder of the two was hit in a leg. This caused the two Dharawal men to run to their huts and seize their spears and shields. Subsequently, a single spear was thrown at the whites which \"happily hurt nobody\". This then caused Cook to order \"a third musket with small-shots\" to be fired, \"upon which one of them threw another lance and both immediately ran away.\" Cook did not make further contact with the Dharawal.\n\nCook, in his voyage up the east coast of Australia, observed no signs of agriculture or other development by its inhabitants. Some historians argue that under prevailing European law such land was deemed \"terra nullius\" or land belonging to nobody or land 'empty of inhabitants' (as defined by Emerich de Vattel). Cook wrote that he claimed the east coast of the continent for Britain on 23 August 1770, when visiting Possession Island in Torres Strait.\n\nThe British Government decided to establish a prison colony in Australia in 1786. Under the European legal doctrine of \"terra nullius\", Indigenous Australians were not recognised as having property rights and territory could be acquired through 'original occupation' rather than conquest or consent. The colony's Governor, Captain Arthur Phillip, was instructed to \"live in amity and kindness\" with Indigenous Australians and sought to avoid conflict.\n\nThe British settlement of Australia commenced with the First Fleet in mid-January 1788 in the south-east in what is now the federal state of New South Wales. This process then continued into Tasmania and Victoria from 1803 onward. Since then the population density of white people has remained highest in this section of the Australian continent. However, conflict with Aborigines was never as intense and bloody in the south-eastern colonies as in Queensland and the north-east of the continent. More settlers as well as Indigenous Australians were killed on the Queensland frontier than in any other Australian colony. The reason is simple, and is reflected in all evidence and sources dealing with this subject: There were more Aborigines in Queensland. The territory of Queensland was the single most populated section of pre-contact Indigenous Australia, reflected not only in all pre-contact population estimates, but also in the mapping of pre-contact Australia (see Horton's \"Map of Aboriginal Australia\").\n\nThe indigenous population distribution illustrated below is based on two independent sources, firstly on two population estimates made by anthropologists and a social historian in 1930 and in 1988, secondly on the basis of the distribution of known tribal land.\n\nAll evidence suggests that the territory of Queensland had a pre-contact Indigenous population density more than double that of New South Wales, at least six times that of Victoria and at least twenty times that of Tasmania. Equally there are signs that the population density of Indigenous Australia was comparatively higher in the north-eastern sections of New South Wales, and along the northern coast from the Gulf of Carpentaria and westward including certain sections of the Northern Territory and Western Australia.\n\nThe effects of disease, infertility, loss of hunting grounds, and starvation on the Aboriginal population were significant. There are indications that smallpox epidemics may have impacted heavily on some Aboriginal tribes, with depopulation in large sections of what is now Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland up to 50% or more, even before the move inland from Sydney of squatters and their livestock. Other diseases hitherto unknown in the Indigenous populationsuch as the common cold, flu, measles, venereal diseases and tuberculosisalso had an impact, significantly reducing their numbers and tribal cohesion, and so limiting their ability to adapt to or resist invasion and dispossession.\n\nAccording to the historian John Connor, traditional Aboriginal warfare should be examined on its own terms and not by definitions of war derived from other societies. Aboriginal people did not have distinct ideas of war and peace, and traditional warfare was common, taking place between groups on an ongoing basis, with great rivalries being maintained over extended periods of time. The aims and methods of traditional Aboriginal warfare arose from their small autonomous social groupings. The fighting of a war to conquer enemy territory was not only beyond the resources of any of these Aboriginal groupings, it was contrary to a culture that was based on spiritual connections to a specific territory. Consequently, conquering another group's territory may have been seen to be of little benefit. Ultimately, traditional Aboriginal warfare was aimed at continually asserting the superiority of one's own group over its neighbours, rather than conquering, destroying or displacing neighbouring groups. As the explorer :Edward John Eyre observed in 1845, whilst Aboriginal culture was \"so varied in detail\", it was \"similar in general outline and character\", and Connor observes that there were sufficient similarities in weapons and warfare of these groups to allow generalisations about traditional Aboriginal warfare to be made. \n\nIn 1840, the American-Canadian ethnologist :Horatio Hale identified four types of Australian Aboriginal traditional warfare; formal battles, ritual trials, raids for women, and revenge attacks. Formal battles involved fighting between two groups of warriors, which ended after a few warriors had been killed or wounded, due to the need to ensure the ongoing survival of the groups. Such battles were usually fought to settle grievances between groups, and could take some time to prepare. Ritual trials involved the application of customary law to one or more members of a group who had committed a crime such as murder or assault. Weapons were used to inflict injury, and the criminal was expected to stand their ground and accept the punishment. Some Aboriginal men had effective property rights over women and raids for women were essentially about transferring property from one group to another to ensure the survival of a group through women's food-gathering and childbearing roles. The final type of Aboriginal traditional warfare described by Hale was the revenge attack, undertaken by one group against another to punish the group for the actions of one of its members, such as a murder. In some cases these involved sneaking into the opposition camp at night and silently killing one or more members of the group.\n\nConnor describes traditional Aboriginal warfare as both limited and universal. It was limited in terms of:\n\n\nTraditional Aboriginal warfare was also universal, as the entire community participated in warfare, boys learnt to fight by playing with toy melee and missile weapons, and every initiated male became a warrior. Women were sometimes participants in warfare as warriors and as encouragers on the sidelines of formal battles, but more often as victims.\n\nWhile the selection and design of weapons varied from group to group, Aboriginal warriors used a combination of melee and missile weapons in traditional warfare. Spears, clubs and shields were commonly used in hand-to-hand fighting, with different types of shields favoured during exchanges of missiles and in close combat, and spears (often used in conjunction with spear throwers), boomerangs and stones used as missile weapons.\n\nAvailable weapons had a significant influence over the tactics used during traditional Aboriginal warfare. The limitations of spears and clubs meant that surprise was paramount during raids for women and revenge attacks, and encouraged ambushing and night attacks. These tactics were offset by counter-measures such as regularly changing campsites, being prepared to extinguish camp-fires at short notice, and posting parties of warriors to cover the escape of raiders.\n\nInitial peaceful relations between Indigenous Australians and Europeans began to be strained several months after the First Fleet established Sydney on 26 January 1788. The local Indigenous people became suspicious when the British began to clear land and catch fish, and in May 1788 five convicts were killed and an Indigenous man was wounded. The British grew increasingly concerned when groups of up to three hundred Indigenous people were sighted at the outskirts of the settlement in June. Despite this, Phillip attempted to avoid conflict, and forbade reprisals after being speared in 1790. He did, however, authorise two punitive expeditions in December 1790 after his huntsman was killed by an Indigenous warrior named Pemulwuy, but neither was successful.\n\nDuring the 1790s and early 19th century the British established small settlements along the Australian coastline. These settlements initially occupied small amounts of land, and there was little conflict between the settlers and Indigenous peoples. Fighting broke out when the settlements expanded, however, disrupting traditional Indigenous food-gathering activities, and subsequently followed the pattern of European settlement in Australia for the next 150 years. Indeed, whilst the reactions of the Aboriginal inhabitants to the sudden arrival of British settlers were varied, they became inevitably hostile when their presence led to competition over resources, and to the occupation of their lands. European diseases decimated Indigenous populations, and the occupation or destruction of lands and food resources sometimes led to starvation. By and large neither the Europeans nor the Indigenous peoples approached the conflict in an organised sense, with the conflict more one between groups of settlers and individual tribes rather than systematic warfare, even if at times it did involve British soldiers and later formed mounted police units. Not all Indigenous Australians resisted white encroachment on their lands either, whilst many also served in mounted police units and were involved in attacks on other tribes. Settlers in turn often reacted with violence, resulting in a number of indiscriminate massacres.\nEuropean activities provoking significant conflict included pastoral squatting and gold rushes.\n\nOpinions differ on whether to depict the conflict as one-sided and mainly perpetrated by Europeans on Indigenous Australians or not. Although tens of thousands more Indigenous Australians died than Europeans, some cases of mass killing were not massacres but quasi-military defeats, and the higher death toll was also caused by the technological and logistic advantages enjoyed by Europeans. Indigenous tactics varied, but were mainly based on pre-existing hunting and fighting practices—utilising spears, clubs and other simple weapons. Unlike the indigenous peoples of New Zealand and North America, in the main they failed to adapt to meet the challenge of the Europeans, and although there were some instances of individuals and groups acquiring and using firearms, this was not widespread. In reality the Indigenous peoples were never a serious military threat, regardless of how much the settlers may have feared them. On occasions large groups attacked Europeans in open terrain and a conventional battle ensued, during which the Aborigines would attempt to use superior numbers to their advantage. This could sometimes be effective, with reports of them advancing in crescent formation in an attempt to outflank and surround their opponents, waiting out the first volley of shots and then hurling their spears whilst the settlers reloaded. Usually, however, such open warfare proved more costly for the Indigenous Australians than the Europeans.\n\nCentral to the success of the Europeans was the use of firearms, but the advantages this afforded have often been overstated. Prior to the 19th century, firearms were often cumbersome muzzle-loading, smooth-bore, single shot weapons with flint-lock mechanisms. Such weapons produced a low rate of fire, whilst suffering from a high rate of failure and were only accurate within . These deficiencies may have given the Aborigines some advantages, allowing them to move in close and engage with spears or clubs. However, by 1850 significant advances in firearms gave the Europeans a distinct advantage, with the six-shot Colt revolver, the Snider single shot breech-loading rifle and later the Martini-Henry rifle as well as rapid-fire rifles such as the Winchester rifle, becoming available. These weapons, when used on open ground and combined with the superior mobility provided by horses to surround and engage groups of Indigenous Australians, often proved successful. The Europeans also had to adapt their tactics to fight their fast-moving, often hidden enemies. Strategies employed included night-time surprise attacks, and positioning forces to drive the Aborigines off cliffs or force them to retreat into rivers while attacking from both banks.\n\nFighting between Indigenous Australians and European settlers was localised, as Indigenous groups did not form confederations capable of sustained resistance. Conflict emerged as a series of violent engagements, and massacres across the continent. According to the historian Geoffrey Blainey, in Australia during the colonial period: \"In a thousand isolated places there were occasional shootings and spearings. Even worse, smallpox, measles, influenza and other new diseases swept from one Aboriginal camp to another ... The main conqueror of Aborigines was to be disease and its ally, demoralisation\".\n\nThe Caledon Bay crisis of 1932–4 saw one of the last incidents of violent interaction on the 'frontier' of indigenous and non-indigenous Australia, which began when the spearing of Japanese poachers who had been molesting Yolngu women was followed by the killing of a policeman. As the crisis unfolded, national opinion swung behind the Aboriginal people involved, and the first appeal on behalf of an Indigenous Australian, Dhakiyarr Wirrpanda, was launched to the High Court of Australia in \"Tuckiar v the King\". Following the crisis, the anthropologist Donald Thomson was despatched by the government to live among the Yolngu. Elsewhere around this time, activists like Sir Douglas Nicholls were commencing their campaigns for Aboriginal rights within the established Australian political system and the age of frontier conflict closed.\n\nFrontier encounters in Australia were not universally negative. Positive accounts of Aboriginal customs and encounters are also recorded in the journals of early European explorers, who often relied on Aboriginal guides and assistance: Charles Sturt employed Aboriginal envoys to explore the Murray-Darling; the lone survivor of the Burke and Wills expedition was nursed by local Aborigines, and the famous Aboriginal explorer Jackey Jackey loyally accompanied his ill-fated friend Edmund Kennedy to Cape York. Respectful studies were conducted by such as Walter Baldwin Spencer and Frank Gillen in their renowned anthropological study \"The Native Tribes of Central Australia\" (1899); and by Donald Thomson of Arnhem Land (c.1935–1943). In inland Australia, the skills of Aboriginal stockmen became highly regarded.\n\nThe first frontier war began in 1795 when the British established farms along the Hawkesbury River west of Sydney. Some of these settlements were established by soldiers as a means of providing security to the region. The local Darug people raided farms until Governor Macquarie dispatched troops from the British Army 46th Regiment in 1816. These troops patrolled the Hawkesbury Valley and ended the conflict by killing 14 Indigenous Australians in a raid on their campsite. Indigenous Australians led by Pemulwuy also conducted raids around Parramatta during the period between 1795 and 1802. These attacks led Governor Philip Gidley King to issue an order in 1801 which authorised settlers to shoot Indigenous Australians on sight in Parramatta, Georges River and Prospect areas.\n\nConflict began again when the British expanded into inland New South Wales. The settlers who crossed the Blue Mountains were harassed by Wiradjuri warriors, who killed or wounded stock-keepers and stock and were subjected to retaliatory killings. In response, Governor Brisbane proclaimed martial law on 14 August 1824 to end \"...the Slaughter of Black Women and Children, and unoffending White Men...\". It remained in force until 11 December 1824, when it was proclaimed that \"...the judicious and humane Measures pursued by the Magistrates assembled at Bathurst have restored Tranquillity without Bloodshed...\". There is a display of the weaponry and history of this conflict at the National Museum of Australia. This includes a commendation by Governor Brisbane of the deployment of the troops under Major Morisset: \nI felt it necessary to augment the Detachment at Bathurst to 75 men who were divided into various small parties, each headed by a Magistrate who proceeded in different directions in towards the interior of the Country ... This system of keeping these unfortunate People in a constant state of alarm soon brought them to a sense of their Duty, and ... Saturday their great and most warlike Chieftain has been with me to receive his pardon and that He, with most of His Tribe, attended the annual conference held here on the 28th Novr...\n\nBrisbane also established the New South Wales Mounted Police, who began as mounted infantry from the third Regiment, and were first deployed against bushrangers around Bathurst in 1825. Later they were deployed to the upper Hunter Region in 1826 after fighting broke out there between Wonnarua and Kamilaroi people and settlers.\n\nFrom the 1830s British settlement spread rapidly through inland eastern Australia, leading to widespread conflict. Fighting took place across the Liverpool Plains, with 16 British and up to 500 Indigenous Australians being killed between 1832 and 1838. The fighting in this region included several massacres of Indigenous people including as the Waterloo Creek massacre and Myall Creek massacres in 1838 and did not end until 1843. Further fighting took place in the New England region during the early 1840s.\n\nThe British established a settlement in Van Diemen's Land (modern Tasmania) in 1803. Relations with the local Indigenous people were generally peaceful until the mid-1820s when pastoral expansion caused conflict over land. This led to sustained frontier warfare (the 'Black War'), and in some districts farmers were forced to fortify their houses. Over 50 British were killed between 1828 and 1830 in what was the \"most successful Aboriginal resistance in Australia's history\".\n\nIn 1830 Lieutenant-Governor Arthur attempted to end the 'Black War' through a massive offensive. In an operation which became known as the 'Black Line' ten percent of the colony's male civilian population were mobilised and marched across the settled districts in company with police and soldiers in an attempt to clear Indigenous Australians from the area. While few Indigenous people were captured, the operation discouraged the Indigenous raiding parties, and they gradually agreed to leave their land for a reservation which had been established at Flinders Island.\n\nThe first British settlement in Western Australia was established by the British Army at Albany in 1826. Relations between the garrison and the local Minang people were generally good. Open conflict between Noongar and European settlers broke out in Western Australia in the 1830s as the Swan River Colony expanded from Perth. The Pinjarra Massacre is the best known single event, it occurred on 28 October 1833 when a party of British soldiers and mounted police led by Governor Stirling attacked an Indigenous campsite on the banks of the Murray River.\n\nThe Noongar people forced from traditional hunting grounds and denied access to sacred sites turned to stealing settlers crops and killing livestock to supplement their food supply. In 1831 a Noongar person was killed taking potatoes; this resulted in Yagan killing a servant of the household as was the response permitted under tribal law. In 1832 Yagan and two others were arrested and sentenced to death, settler Robert Menli Lyon argued that Yagan was defending his land from invasion as such he should be treated as a prisoner of war. The argument was successful and the three men were exiled to Carnac Island under the supervision of Lyon and two soldiers. The group later escaped from the island.\n\nFighting continued on into the 1840s along the Avon River near York.\n\nIn the Vasse region relations between the white settlers and the native Wardandi people were strained to the point of violence, resulting in several Aboriginal deaths. In June 1841, George Layman was speared to death by Wardandi elder Gaywal. According to one source, Layman had gotten involved in an argument between Gaywal and another Wardandi tribesman over their allocation of damper, and pulled Gaywal's beard, which was considered a grave insult. According to another source, Layman had hired two of Gaywal's wives to work on his farm and would not let them go back to their husband. A manhunt for Layman's killer went on for several weeks, involving much bloodshed as Captain Molloy, the Bussell brothers, and troops killed unknown numbers of Aboriginals in what has become known as the Wonnerup Massacre. The posse eventually shot Gaywal and captured his three sons, two of whom were imprisoned on Rottnest Island.\n\nThe discovery of gold near Coolgardie in 1892 brought thousands of prospectors onto Wangkathaa land, causing sporadic fighting.\n\nContinued European expansion in Western Australia led to further frontier conflict, Bunuba raiders also attacked European settlements during the 1890s until their leader Jandamarra was killed in 1897. Sporadic conflict continued in northern Western Australia until the 1920s, with a Royal Commission held in 1926 finding that at least eleven Indigenous Australians had been killed in the Forrest River massacre by a police expedition in retaliation for the death of a European.\n\nConsiderable fighting also took place in South Australia between 1839 and 1841.\n\nFighting also took place in early pre-separation Victoria after it was settled in 1834. \n\nIn 1833–34, the battle for rights to a beached whale between whalers and the Gunditjmara resulted in the Convincing Ground massacre near Portland, Victoria. \n\nA clash at Benalla in 1838 know as the Battle of Broken River of which at least seven white settlers were killed, marked the beginning of frontier conflict in the colony which lasted for fifteen years. \n\nIn 1839 the reprisal raid against Aboriginal resistance in central Victoria resulted in the Campaspe Plains massacre.\n\nThe Indigenous groups in Victoria concentrated on economic warfare, killing tens of thousands of sheep. Large numbers of British settlers arrived in Victoria during the 1840s, and rapidly outnumbered the Indigenous population. \n\nFrom 1840, the Eumerella Wars raged in south west Victoria, and many years of violence during the Warrigal creek and Gippsland massacres.\n\nIn the late 1840s, frontier conflict continued in the Wimmera. \n\nThe frontier wars were particularly bloody and bitter in Queensland, owing to its comparatively large Indigenous population. This point is emphasised in a 2011 study by Orsted-Jensen, which by use of two different sources calculated that colonial Queensland must have accounted for upwards of one third and close to forty percent of the indigenous population of the pre-contact Australian continent.\n\nQueensland represents the single bloodiest colonial frontier in Australia. Thus the records of Queensland document the most frequent reports of shootings and massacres of indigenous people, the three deadliest massacres on white settlers, the most disreputable frontier police force, and the highest number of white victims to frontier violence on record in any Australian colony. In 2009 professor Raymond Evans calculated the indigenous fatalities caused by the Queensland Native Police Force alone as no less than 24,000. In July 2014, Evans, in cooperation with the Danish historian Robert Ørsted-Jensen, presented the first-ever attempt to use statistical modelling and a database covering no less than 644 collisions gathered from primary sources, and ended up with total fatalities suffered during Queensland's frontier wars being no less than 66,680—with Aboriginal fatalities alone comprising no less than 65,180—whereas the hitherto commonly accepted minimum overall continental deaths had previously been 20,000. The 66,680 covers Native Police and settler-inflicted fatalities on Aboriginal people, but also a calculated estimate for Aboriginal inflicted casualties on the invading forces of whites and their associates. The continental death toll of Europeans and associates has previously been roughly estimated as between 2,000 and 2,500, yet there is now evidence that Queensland alone accounted for an estimated 1,500 of these fatal frontier casualties.\n\nThe invasion of what is now Queensland commenced as the Moreton Bay penal settlement from September 1824. It was initially located at Redcliffe but moved south to Brisbane River a year later. Free settlement began in 1838 but a wholesale invasion and settlement only really began with the great rush to take up the surrounding land in the Darling Downs, Logan and Brisbane Valley and South Burnett onwards from 1840, in many cases leading to widespread fighting and heavy loss of life. The conflict later spread north to the Wide Bay and Burnett River and Hervey Bay region, and at one stage the settlement of Maryborough was virtually under siege. Both sides committed atrocities, with settlers poisoning a large number of Indigenous people, for example at Kilcoy on the South Burnett in 1842 and on Whiteside near Brisbane in 1847, and Indigenous warriors killing 19 settlers during the Cullin-La-Ringo massacre on 17 October 1861.\n\nQueensland's Native Police Force was formed by the Government of New South Wales in 1848, under the well connected Commandant Frederick Walker.\n\nThe largest reasonably well documented massacres in south east Queensland were the Kilcoy and Whiteside poisonings, each of which was said to have taken up to 70 Aboriginal lives by use of gift of flour laced with strychnine. Central Queensland was particularly hard hit during the 1860s and 1870s, several contemporary settlers mention the \"Skull Hole\" or Mistake Creek massacre on Bladensburg station near Winton which in 1901 was said to have taken up to 200 Aboriginal lives. In 1869 the Port Denison Times reported that \"Not long ago 120 aboriginals disappeared on two occasions forever from the native records\" Frontier violence peaked on the northern mining frontier during the 1870s, most notably in Cook district and on the Palmer and Hodgkinson River goldfields, with heavy loss of Aboriginal lives and several well known massacres. Battle Camp and Cape Bedford belong among the best known massacres of Aboriginal people in Cook district, but they were certainly not the only ones. The Cape Bedford massacre on 20 February 1879 alone was reported to have taken as many as 28 lives, this was retaliation for the injuring (but not killing) of two white \"ceder-getters\" from Cooktown. In January 1879 Carl Feilberg, the editor of the short lived Brisbane \"Daily News\" (later editor-in-chief of the \"Brisbane Courier\"), conveyed a report from a \"gentleman, on whose words reliance can be placed\" that he had after just \"one of these raids...counted as many as seventy-five natives dead or dying upon the ground.\"\n\nRaids conducted by the Kalkadoon held settlers out of Western Queensland for ten years until September 1884 when they attacked a force of settlers and native police at Battle Mountain near modern Cloncurry. The subsequent battle of Battle Mountain ended in disaster for the Kalkadoon, who suffered heavy losses. Fighting continued in north Queensland, however, with Indigenous raiders attacking sheep and cattle while native police mounted punitive expeditions. Two reports from 1884 and 1889 written by one of the prime combatants of the Kalkadoons, Sub-inspector of Native Police (later Queensland Police Commissioner) Frederic Charles Urquhart described how he and his detachment pursued and killed up to 150 Aborigines in just three or four so-called \"dispersals\" (he provided numbers up to about 80 of these killings, the rest was just described without estimating the actual toll).\n\nThe conflict in Queensland was the bloodiest in the history of Colonial Australia. The latest studies gives evidence of some 1,500 whites and associates (meaning Aboriginal servants, as well as Chinese, Melanesian and other non-Europeans) killed on the Queensland frontier during the 19th century, while some recent studies suggest that upwards of 65,000 Aborigines were killed, with sections of Central and North Queensland witnessing particularly heavy fighting. The figure of 65,000 is considerably higher than the common national minimum of 20,000 colonial Aboriginal casualties.\n\nThe British made three early attempts to establish military outposts in northern Australia. The initial settlement at Fort Dundas on Melville Island was established in 1824 but was abandoned in 1829 due to attacks from the local Tiwi people. Some fighting also took place near Fort Wellington on the Cobourg Peninsula between its establishment in 1827 and abandonment in 1829. The third British settlement, Fort Victoria, was also established on the Cobourg Peninsula in 1838 but was abandoned in 1849.\n\nThe final battles took place in the Northern Territory. A permanent settlement was established at modern-day Darwin in 1869 and attempts by pastoralists to occupy Indigenous land led to conflict. This fighting continued into the 20th century, and was driven by reprisals against European deaths and the pastoralists' desire to secure their land. At least 31 Indigenous men were killed by police in the Coniston massacre in 1928 and further reprisal expeditions were conducted in 1932 and 1933.\n\nArmed resistance to British settlement was generally given little attention by historians until the 1970s, and was not regarded as a \"war\". In 1968 anthropologist W.E.H. Stanner wrote that historians' failure to include Indigenous Australians in histories of Australia or acknowledge widespread frontier conflict constituted a 'great Australian silence'. Works which discussed the conflicts began to appear during the 1970s and 1980s, and the first history of the Australian frontier told from an Indigenous perspective, Henry Reynolds' \"The Other Side of the Frontier\", was published in 1982.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2002 Keith Windschuttle published a series of articles in the magazine \"Quadrant\" and the book \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History\". These works argued that there had not been prolonged frontier warfare in Australia, and that historians had in some instances fabricated evidence of fighting. Windschuttle's claims led to the so-called \"history wars\" in which historians debated the extent of the conflict between Indigenous Australians and European settlers.\n\nThe frontier wars are not commemorated at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. The Memorial argues that the Australian frontier fighting is outside its charter as it did not involve Australian military forces. This position is supported by the Returned and Services League of Australia but is opposed by many historians, including Geoffrey Blainey, Gordon Briscoe, John Coates, John Connor, Ken Inglis, Michael McKernan and Peter Stanley. These historians argue that the fighting should be commemorated at the Memorial as it involved large numbers of Indigenous Australians and paramilitary Australian units.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14978162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14978162", "title": "Barbary slave trade", "text": "Barbary slave trade\n\nThe Barbary slave trade refers to the slave markets that were lucrative and vast on the Barbary Coast of North Africa, which included the Ottoman provinces of Algeria, Tunisia and Tripolitania and the independent sultanate of Morocco, between the 16th and middle of the 18th century. The Ottoman provinces in North Africa were nominally under Ottoman suzerainty, but in reality they were mostly autonomous. The North African slave markets were part of the Arab slave trade. \nPerpetrated largely on Europeans, and within in-land routes to indigenous European inhabitants. These peoples were systematically preyed upon and turned into slaves, acquired by Barbary pirates during slave raids on ships and by raids on coastal towns from Italy to the Netherlands, as far north as Iceland and in the eastern shores of the Mediterranean.\n\nThe Ottoman eastern Mediterranean was the scene of intense piracy. As late as the 18th century, piracy continued to be a \"consistent threat to maritime traffic in the Aegean\".\n\nFor centuries, large vessels on the Mediterranean relied on galley slaves supplied by North African and Ottoman slave traders.\n\nOhio State University history Professor Robert Davis describes the White Slave Trade as minimized by most modern historians in his book \"Christian Slaves, Muslim Masters: White Slavery in the Mediterranean, the Barbary Coast and Italy, 1500–1800\". Davis estimates that 1 million to 1.25 million Europeans were enslaved in North Africa, from the beginning of the 16th century to the middle of the 18th, by slave traders from Tunis, Algiers, and Tripoli alone (these numbers do not include the European people who were enslaved by Morocco and by other raiders and traders of the Mediterranean Sea coast), and roughly 700 Americans were held captive in this region as slaves between 1785 and 1815. However, to extrapolate his numbers, Davis assumes the number of European slaves captured by Barbary pirates were constant for a 250-year period, stating:\n\nDavis' numbers have been challenged by other historians, such as David Earle, who cautions that true picture of Europeans slaves is clouded by the fact the corsairs also seized non-Christian whites from eastern Europe and black people from west Africa.\n\nMiddle East expert and researcher John Wright cautions that modern estimates are based on back-calculations from human observation. \n\nSince no official records were ever kept but the authorities of Ottoman or pre Ottoman sources, observations across the late 1500s and early 1600s observers, estimate that around 35,000 European slaves were held throughout this period on the Barbary Coast, across Tripoli, Tunis, but mostly in Algiers. The majority were sailors (particularly those who were English), taken with their ships, but others were fishermen and coastal villagers. However, most of these captives were people from lands close to Africa, particularly Italy.\n\nFrom bases on the Barbary coast, North Africa, the Barbary pirates raided ships traveling through the Mediterranean and along the northern and western coasts of Africa, plundering their cargo and enslaving the people they captured. From at least 1500, the pirates also conducted raids along seaside towns of Italy, Spain, France, England, the Netherlands and as far away as Iceland, capturing men, women and children. On some occasions, settlements such as Baltimore, Ireland were abandoned following the raid, only being resettled many years later. Between 1609 and 1616, England alone had 466 merchant ships lost to Barbary pirates.\n\nWhile Barbary corsairs looted the cargo of ships they captured, their primary goal was to capture non-Muslim people for sale as slaves or for ransom. Those who had family or friends who might ransom them were held captive, the most famous of these was the author Miguel de Cervantes, who was held for almost five years. Others were sold into various types of servitude. Captives who converted to Islam were generally freed, since enslavement of Muslims was prohibited; but this meant that they could never return to their native countries.\n\nSixteenth- and 17th-century customs statistics suggest that Istanbul's additional slave import from the Black Sea may have totaled around 2.5 million from 1450 to 1700. The markets declined after the loss of the Barbary Wars and finally ended in the 1800s, after a US Navy expedition under Commodore Edward Preble engaging gunboats and fortifications in Tripoli, 1804 and later when after a British diplomatic mission led to some confused orders and a massacre; British and Dutch ships delivered a punishing nine-hour bombardment of Algiers leading to an acceptance of terms. It ended with the French conquest of Algeria (1830-1847). The Kingdom of Morocco had already suppressed piracy and recognized the United States as an independent country in 1776.\n\nThe slave trade had existed in North Africa since antiquity, with a supply of African slaves arriving through trans-Saharan trade routes. The towns on the North African coast were recorded in Roman times for their slave markets, and this trend continued into the medieval age. The Barbary Coast increased in influence in the 15th century, when the Ottoman Empire took over as rulers of the area. Coupled with this was an influx of Sephardi Jews and Moorish refugees, newly expelled from Spain after the Reconquista.\n\nWith Ottoman protection and a host of destitute immigrants, the coastline soon became reputed for piracy. Crews from the seized ships were either enslaved or ransomed. Between 1580 and 1680, there were in Barbary around 15,000 renegades, Christian Europeans who converted to Islam, and half of the corsair captains were in fact renegades. Some of them were slaves that converted to Islam but most had probably never been slaves and had come to North Africa looking for opportunity.\n\nAfter a revolt in the mid-17th century reduced the ruling Ottoman Pashas to little more than figureheads in the region, the towns of Tripoli, Algiers, Tunis and others became independent in all but name. Without a large central authority and its laws, the pirates themselves started to gain much influence.\n\nIn 1785 when Thomas Jefferson and John Adams went to London to negotiate with Tripoli's envoy, Ambassador Sidi Haji Abdrahaman, they asked him what right he had to take slaves in this way. He replied that the \"right\" was \"founded on the Laws of the Prophet, that it was written in their Koran that all nations who should not have answered their authority were sinners, that it was their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found, and to make slaves of all they could take as prisoners, and that every Mussulman who should be slain in battle was sure to go to Paradise\".\n\nPirate raids for the acquisition of slaves occurred in towns and villages on the African Atlantic seaboard, as well as in Europe. Reports of Barbary raids and kidnappings of those in Italy, Spain, France, Portugal, England, Netherlands, Ireland, Scotland, and as far north as Iceland exist from between the 16th to the 19th centuries. It is estimated that between 1 million and 1.25 million Europeans were captured by pirates and sold as slaves in Tunis, Algiers and Tripoli during this time period. The slave trade in Europeans in other parts of the Mediterranean is not included in this estimation.\n\nFamous accounts of Barbary slave raids include a mention in the diary of Samuel Pepys and a raid on the coastal village of Baltimore, Ireland, during which pirates left with the entire populace of the settlement. The attack was led by a Dutch captain, Jan Janszoon van Haarlem, also known as Murad Reis the Younger. Janszoon also led the 1627 raid on Iceland. Such raids in the Mediterranean were so frequent and devastating that the coastline between Venice to Malaga suffered widespread depopulation, and settlement there was discouraged. In fact, it was said that this was largely because \"there was no one left to capture any longer.\"\n\nThe power and influence of these pirates during this time was such that nations including the United States of America paid tribute in order to stave off their attacks. Supplies from the Black Sea appear to have been even larger. A compilation of partial statistics and patchy estimates indicates that a little fewer than 2 million Russians, Ukrainians, and Poles were seized from 1468 to 1694. Additionally, there were slaves from the Caucasus obtained by a mixture of raiding and trading. 16th- and 17th-century customs statistics suggest that Istanbul's slave import from the Black Sea may have totaled around 2.5 million from 1450 to 1700.\n\nIn the first years of the 19th century, the United States of America and some European nations fought and won the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War against the pirates. The Barbary Wars were a direct response of the British, French and the Dutch states to the raids and white slave trade by the Barbary pirates, which ended in the 1830s when the region was conquered by France. The white slave trade and markets in the Mediterranean declined and eventually disappeared after the European occupations.\n\nAfter an Anglo-Dutch raid in 1816 on Algiers immobilized most of the Pirate fleet, the Dey of Algiers was forced to agree to terms which included a cessation of the practice of enslaving Christians, although slave trading in non-Europeans could still continue. After losing in this period of formal hostilities with European and American powers, the Barbary states went into decline.\n\nThe Barbary pirates did not cease their operations, and another British raid on Algiers took place in 1824. France invaded Algiers in 1830, placing it under colonial rule. Tunis was similarly invaded by France in 1881. Tripoli returned to direct Ottoman control in 1835, before falling into Italian hands in the 1911 Italo-Turkish War. As such, the slave traders now found that they had to work in accordance with the laws of their governors, and could no longer look to self-regulation. The slave trade ceased on the Barbary coast in the 19th and 20th centuries or when European governments passed laws granting emancipation to slaves.\n\nThe word razzia was borrowed via Italian and French from Algerian Arabic \"ghaziya\" (غزية \"raiding\"), originally referring to slave raids conducted by Barbary pirates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45433", "title": "Bastia", "text": "Bastia\n\nBastia (, ; ) is a French commune in the Haute-Corse department of France located in the north-east of the island of Corsica at the base of Cap Corse. It also has the second-highest population of any commune on the island after Ajaccio and is the capital of the Bagnaja region and of the department.\n\nBastia is the principal port of the island and its principal commercial town and is especially famous for its wines. Approximately 10% of the population are immigrants. The unemployment rate in the commune has persistently been one of the highest in France, standing at over 20% in 2004.\n\nThe inhabitants of the commune are known as \"Bastiais\" or \"Bastiaises\".\n\nThe commune has been awarded three flowers by the \"National Council of Towns and Villages in Bloom\" in the \"Competition of cities and villages in Bloom\".\n\nLocated in the North-East of Corsica at the base of the Cap Corse, between the sea and the mountain, Bastia is the principal port of the island. The city is located away from the northern tip of the Cap Corse, west from Elba, an Italian island, and away from continental Italy which can be seen a few days per year when visibility is excellent.\n\nIn terms of geography, Bastia is defined by its position between the sea and the mountain. The city is located on the Eastern side of the \"Serra di Pignu\", a mountain (see photo opposite). This steep mountain and several hills in the city shape a relief typical of the Cap Corse. This pronounced landscape caused the city to develop mostly on a coastal band about wide, which is a very limited part of the that the commune has.\n\nAbove all, Bastia is a port, and the sea has of course a significant role in the spatial organization of the city. Bastia possesses nowadays three different ports. The old port (\"Vieux Port\" in French and \"Portu Vechju\" in Corsican), located in a remarkable and narrow cove, offers good natural shelter against the climatic hazards of the Mediterranean Sea. Thus, it was at the core of the initial development of the city. Nowadays, many pleasure and fishing boats are still there, but it is not as economically vital than the other more modern ports, although its touristic and aesthetic charm almost makes the old port the official emblem of the city. In fact, many cafés, bars and restaurants have moved to its docks to which access is granted by the city for pedestrians only during summer evenings.\n\nA bit more to the North is located the commercial and ferry port. As a major economic asset of the city, the \"port de commerce\" is the pulse of the city. It is even more so during the summer when ferry arrivals and departures of thousands of passengers and cars can sometimes cause long traffic jams along the north–south axis, the national road RN193. In front of the commercial port, the large Saint-Nicolas square represents the heart of the city. Just North of the commercial port, the Toga marina, named after a city neighborhood, is a harbor for leisure boating activities like sailing and yachting. There are also some bars, restaurants and night clubs on its docks.\n\nThus, Bastia is logically organized on a relatively narrow north–south axis which can make access to the city centre difficult under particular circumstances. Nowadays, the city centre is mainly composed of the \"citadelle\", the stronghold, also called Terra-Nova, with the Genoese Governors' Palace, the old port and its popular quarter and the market plaza, and finally the ensemble of buildings along the \"Boulevard Paoli\", the main commercial street of the city, which lies from the Justice Court to the Avenue Maréchal Sebastiani.\n\nDuring the last few decades, Bastia and its region have experienced a strong demographic growth, which has cause somewhat of a suburban crawl in the South of the city, because of the congestion of the city center.\n\nThe commune is located in the Alpine Eastern Corsica region which is formed from \"a succession of Autochthons (fixed terrain), para-Autochtons (weakly displaced terrain) and especially Allochthons (highly displaced terrain). The first two coincide roughly with the central depression. The Allochtons are mainly in the area of lustrous schists and ophiolites corresponding to the eastern relief (Cap Corse and Castagniccia)\".\n\nIts base rests on a granite bedrock (Felsic granites from the Hercynian, plain rocks), which has been covered with oceanic layers of:\n\n\nNote the presence of copper ore in Cardo which was once the subject of a concession.\n\nGeographically, Bastia is characterized by its location between the sea and the mountains. The commune lies on the eastern flank of the \"Serra di Pignu\" a mountain which rises to 960 m above sea level. This steep mountain with other hills around Bastia forms the typical terrain of Cap Corse. This pronounced relief largely explains the development of the city on a coastal strip of about 1.5 km in width which is a very limited proportion of the 19.38 km2 of the whole commune.\n\nThe river network is sparse. There are three small streams (or \"fiumes\") flowing from west to east:\n\n\nBastia possesses a Mediterranean climate. The average annual temperature is and there are about five days of frost per year. Winds are frequent and violent, precipitation copious, but there are also 240 sunny days on average per year\n\nThe commune has two levels of vegetation as a result of its climate but also the flora:\n\n\nThere are three main access roads to Bastia:\n\nThe road distance to other towns and cities in Corsica is:\n\nThe urban area of Bastia is served by a bus network with 14 routes operated by the Autobus Bastiais company.\n\nThe Bastia railway station belongs to Chemins de Fer de la Corse and is located in the city centre. There are services to Ajaccio and Calvi. There are also 7 other Bastia rail stops for suburban services to Casamozza: Lupino, Rivoli, Bassanese, Arinella, Montesoro, Sole-Meo, Erbajolo.\n\nDespite its small size the port of Bastia is the busiest French port on the Mediterranean Sea with 2,291,944 passengers in 2011.\n\nThis makes it the second busiest French port behind Calais (about 15 million passengers).\n\nPorts served from Bastia are:\nSource: CCI Haute Corse – Port Statistics 2014 (p. 12)\n\nDomestic traffic is 47.4% against 52.6% international traffic.\n\nAs shown in the adjacent diagram, shipping and passenger traffic is characterized by a very marked seasonality. This is explained by the importance of summer tourism for the economy of Corsica. Thus the traffic is multiplied by eleven in the high season (July–August). This seasonality has a very strong impact on the city of Bastia, as on all Corsica. The city must be equipped with the necessary infrastructure to be able to accommodate such numbers of passengers even though it is for a short time each year.\n\n\nThere is a clear dominance by Corsica Ferries:\n\nThe Bastia – Poretta Airport is located 16 km south of the city in the commune of Lucciana. It is the second largest airport in Corsica by passenger numbers after Ajaccio Napoleon Bonaparte Airport.\n\nIt serves several French airports including Paris-Orly, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Marseille-Provence, Nice-Côte d'Azur, and Lyon-Saint-Exupery.\n\nThere are also some European routes such as London, Geneva, and Cologne. The main airlines are Air Corsica, Air France, EasyJet, Germanwings, Luxair, British Airways, and Volotea.\n\nIn Roman times the site of Cardo with the north-eastern district of the current commune of Bastia and Pietrabugno formed a Pieve: the oldest known administrative division. This territory was occupied by the Vanacimi people. Bastia did not exist. Neither Ptolemy, Strabo, or Pliny in the descriptions they made of the island mentioned Bastia.\n\nAt the end of the 9th century, the territory or \"pieve\" of Mantino depended on the lords \"Loretesi\". They were driven out in 1072 by the Da Furiani, \"Aschesi\" or \"Laschesi\", aided by the Marquis of Massa.\n\nIn 1370 the Republic of Genoa sent two governors to Corsica: Leonello Lomellino and Aluigi Toriorino. Shortly afterwards, considering the great expense and little profit in Corsica, the Republic decided to withdraw and no longer intervene in the affairs of the island. Nevertheless some Genoese gentlemen formed a partnership known as the Maona to try and manage the economy on the island on behalf of the Republic of Genoa. The five partners were: Leonello Lomellino, Giovanni da Balagnera, Aluigi Tortorino, Andreolo Ficone, and Cristoforo Maruffo. They all came with the title of Governor and brought with them a thousand soldiers.\n\nAfter an expedition to Cinarca followed by a short period of peace, Leonello Lomellino returned as governor and to gain an advantage over the Count Arrigo della Rocca with whom he would have to fight, he began by fortifying Aléria. \" Then Count Arrigo and his allies once again crossed the mountains and made incursions against Cap Corse: having met no resistance, they went to besiege Aléria which capitulated after four months. Leonello, deprived of all support, returned to Biguglia and from there he went to build the castle of Bastia to maintain his sea communications\". \n\n\"Between the second half of the 12th century and the middle of the 13th century the feudal system was in place at all levels of society and new links were created between the elite of the aristocracy and the Maritime Republics, between representatives of the island's nobility, and between them and the poor. At the same time castles multiplied. They were then owned by fifteen noble families of local or peninsular origin, sometimes fragmented into independent lordships or even [sic] rivals: Bagnaia, Amondaschi, Cortinchi, Pinaschi de Coasini, Lotreto de Nebbio, Loreto de Casinca, Orezza, Avogari, Camilla, Turca, Pevere, de Mari (from the mid-13th century only), and the \"Marquis de Massa and Corsica\"\".\n\n– Daniel Istria – Powers and fortifications in northern Corsica 11th – 14th Century p. 145\n\nAccording to Giovanni della Grossa, the \"seigneurialisation\" of Loreto would have beene, as with Genoese families of the Cape, usurping the County title acquired during the \"people's government\". Small lordships that emerged from the courts of the Bishop of Nebbio, probably sometime in the second half of the 12th century or the beginning of the 13th century, were partly absorbed by the lords of Bagnaia before 1247. Then, before 1289, they were recovered and absorbed, like many others in the new lordship of Giovanninello de Loreto. Taking advantage of the Genoese-pisano rivalries, he extended his possessions to the east and west.\n\nWritten documentation illustrates the business of territorial conquest conducted by Giovanninello during the years 1260–1280. After raiding the castles of Nebbio and Pureto in the Ostriconi, he went on to the conquest of the pieve of Orto, which was then under the control of Bagnaia, and he built two new fortifications: Montebello and Petra di Bugno. These were intended not only to dominate and control the northern part of Bagnaia, whose Cerlino Lake had a certain economic interest, but probably also to neutralise Porto Cardo, which occupied a strategic military position as well as having businesses. It was here that the fortress of Bastia was erected, the residence of the Genoese governors from the 15th century. The agreements between Giovanninello and the commune of Genoa in 1289 demonstrated the importance of this baronial control of land routes and anchorages, a major source of revenue and a guarantee of the security of the territory.\n\nBefore the occupation of Corsica by the Genoese there were several communities of the pieve of Orto: Soverta, La Vetrice, Belgodere, Astima, and Le Corbaia. All these villages have today almost disappeared. On the coast there was a small hamlet inhabited by fishermen called Porto Cardo which means \"Cardo Port\".\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries the Franciscans settled in the Pieve of Orto.\n\nAt the beginning of the 16th century, Monseigneur Agostino Giustiniani, Bishop of Nebbio, described in his \"Dialogo nominato Corsica\":\n\n\"[...] The pieve of Orto is almost ruined; it contains 340 fires. In this piève is Biguglia with a convent of Friars Minor [...]. With Biguglia there are still these pièves: Furiani, Belgodere, Soverta, La Vetrice, and Corbaia; nowadays, all these villages have almost disappeared.\"\n\n– Agostino Giustiniani in \"Description of Corsica\", translation by Lucien Auguste Letteron in \"History of Corsica\", Bulletin of the Society for Historical and Natural Sciences of Corsica – Volume I – 1888, p. 50. \n\nContinuing, he writes:\n\n\"It is in this piève Bastia lies, home to the Bishop and Governor of Corsica. Before the last war this city had 700 houses divided into two districts: Terranova and Terravecchia. There was formerly in this place a castle or tower, or rather a fortress of the kind called on the continent \"Bastie\" [...]. Terravecchia was an open area which is now burned and ruined largely as a result of the war. The land is very steep on the lower slopes and walking is very painful; on the other hand the Terranova area is generally flat, with fairly wide streets and many modern houses. It is surrounded not only by a solid wall, which forms a continuous enclosure, but a wide and deep moat and magnificent bastions. The wall was begun in the time of Tomasino de Campofregoso, then lord of the island, and completed later through the efforts of the Bank of Saint George. The bastions and the moat were made by that same bank and by the Genoese government during the last war. The bank has added a very beautiful citadel but the benefits do not match the expense it required during its construction; it cost, in fact, 25,000 ducats. Bastia has two convents of Friars Minor, one of Recollects, and the other Capuchin. This city, being the governor's residence, prospered greatly but it also had much to suffer in recent wars. Although the main centre on the island many people were of the opinion that its importance will hardly increase. The first reason they give is that the population of the city is composed of Genoese and Corsicans: the Genoese, from Rivières, belong to the lower class. Most Corsicans also belonged in this class. There is a jealousy and rivalry between the inhabitants of Bastia so great that few mind the interests of the city: they apply themselves only to deceit and to oust each other and that is where we get all the evil. The second reason is that the city has no port. It has in fact a small bay where it is possible to relax on small boats. On the other hand, houses, until now, have been very poorly distributed. There is not one that has a stable nor even a well or a cistern, so that it is necessary to fetch water from the fountain outside. Also in summer the water is very hot because it comes from far away via an aqueduct.\n\nThe cellars are far from being good. Bastia is built on a rocky ground, where ducts and sewers can be dug only with great difficulty. The city has no pleasant walks and is also very exposed to the West Wind which sometimes lasts for eight or ten days, so we can not leave home because the wind is so strong that it shakes the houses. What is more advantageous for Bastia is to be near fertile country that produces some wine, such as at Cap Corse, and elsewhere wheat, as on the higher pièves. There is a at the doorstep and only a short distance from Piombino and other mainland locations. It is for these reasons, and not for others, that the Board has chosen Bastia to make the residence of its governors: because there is nowhere on the island where the governor would be better off than at Bastia\".\n\n– Agostino Giustiniani in \"Description of Corsica\", translation by Lucien Auguste Letteron in \"History of Corsica\". \n\nHe ends his description as follows:\n\n\"There were still in the piève of Orto two small villages with the main pieve church dedicated to Saint Mary. These two villages and the church were ruined after the last plague and also because of the negligence of the piévans. After Porraggia comes Punta d'Arco and the Chiurlino Lake, about ten miles long, which can be entered only by very small boats. In this lake is an island, where there is good hunting for wild boar. This place is called the island. There are also two other small islands where fishermen stay: one is called \"Ischia nova\" which became famous in the recent wars and the other is called \"Ischia Vacchia\". There is fishing in this lake for \"cephalic\" (cefalu or mazzardi), mullet (muggini), and other fish that make excellent Botargo. These fish and eels are taken in large quantities and serve as ordinary food for the inhabitants of Bastia, not to mention the fish that comes from the pièves of Orto, Mariana and Mercurio. Then comes the Port of Lo Pino then the Gulf of Bastia, which is called \"Portocardo\" by the sailors. There is then the Ruisseau de S. Nicolas, then successively the Port of Toga, Grigione, the port and Ruisseau di Pietranera where there is a tower.\"\n\n– Agostino Giustiniani in \"Description of Corsica\", translation by Lucien Auguste Letteron in \"History of Corsica\". \n\nThe Genoese soon felt the need to protect Bastia from invasions coming from the sea and began to build a bastiglia (moat) and a citadel in the time of governor Leonello Lomellini.\n\nOver time, the \"Bastiglia\" (Bastia) has grown, become prosperous, and become more important than Cardo.\n\nIts history is in its \"bastiglia\" or citadel which was originally a walled city. Here it was the sea and the mountains that determined the location of habitations as well as the relief of the island. Bastia was the capital at the time of the Genoese domination. It spread to the slopes later, drawn toward the water in the \"Place Saint-Nicolas\".\n\nCreated by the Genoese patrician Leonello Lomellini in 1353 to liaise with Genoa, the city originated on the roack where a tower was built ( a \"bastiglia\", hence its name) and, a hundred years later, was surrounded by walls.\n\nAt the beginning of the 18th century, many improvements were made in the Punta district, where many shops were built. Bastia and the whole island came under French military domination on 8 May 1769.\n\nIn 1794, during a war with Revolutionary France, British troops under Admiral Nelson and Lieutenant-General David Dundas briefly captured Bastia.\n\nIn 1848 Bastia took 44 hectares from Ville-di-Pietrabugno.\n\nBastia suffered much damage during the Second World War. Nevertheless Corsica was the first department to be liberated on 4 October 1943 by the Corsican resistance in the \"Pearl Harbor secret mission\" (sent by the secret services of the military defence establishment in Algiers) and the submarine \"Casabianca\".\n\nThe commandos of the secret mission (Roger de Saule, Laurent Preziosi, the cousins Toussaint, and Pierre Griffi) landed in the night of 13 to 14 December 1942 from the submarine Casabianca in the Bay of Topiti. After organizing a network in this region (Piana), they then moved to organize a 2nd network at Corte led locally by Pascal Valentini, finally heading for Bastia to organise a 3rd network in the Bastia and Cap Corse region. It was around Hyacinthe de Montera, specifically at 35 Bouvelard Paoli, that the movement was organized. Laurent Preziosi had already participated in the first meetings in 1941 before returning to Algiers to be recruited for the mission. The movement then organized within the National Front. The radioman, Pierre Griffi was arrested in Ajaccio, severely tortured, and shot in Bastia without talking on 18 August 1943.\n\nThe turret of the submarine \"Casabianca\" is displayed at the corner of the \"Place Saint-Nicolas\" on the sea side. A commemorative stone of the first meeting was affixed to 35 boulevard Paoli (above the door).\n\nAfter the war, Bastia gradually emerged as a key economic centre of Corsica. The Bastia agglomeration is the most extensive on the island.\n\nDuring the last fifty years Cardo had the second homes of wealthy Bastiais. Currently Cardo is a district of Bastia on the heights of Pigno. It attracts many people who want to live there as it has all the advantages of a village in the countryside while being close to the city.\n\nList of Successive Mayors\n\n(Not all data is known)\n\nThe Agglomeration Community of Bastia includes 5 communes with a total population of 57,276 in 2010.\n\nBastia is divided into four cantons:\n\nBastia has a police station located in the Rue du Commandant Luce de Casabianca.\n\nBastia has twinning associations with:\n\nIn 2010 the commune had 43,008 inhabitants. The evolution of the number of inhabitants is known from the population censuses conducted in the commune since 1793. From the 21st century, a census of communes with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants is held every five years, unlike larger communes that have a sample survey every year.\n\nThe commune has:\n\nThere is also a research institute of the engineering school of Arts et Métiers ParisTech (ENSAM). This institute was opened in 2000 and offers doctoral programs and specialized Masters in the field of renewable energy.\n\nBastia is the location of one of five regional institutes of administration (IRA) in France for the training of future administrative officials.\n\nBastia has a hospital in the Paese Novu district (Falconaja Hospital) and a clinic (Maymard Clinic) in the city centre as well as another clinic specializing in ophthalmology (Filippi clinic) in the Saint-Antoine district.\n\nAround the city there is also the Zuccarelli Clinic (Toga district) and a polyclinic 2 km from the centre of town at Furiani.\n\nSC Bastia is the football club for Bastia. The Armand-Cesari Stadium is located in the neighbouring commune of Furiani. The club was a finalist in the UEFA Cup competition in 1978 and winner of the Coupe de France in 1981. They were also finalists in the Coupe de France in 1972 and 2002, Champion of France in Ligue 2 in 1968 and 2012, as well as National Champion of France in 2011. In 2015 SC Bastia played and lost the final of the League Cup against PSG, 20 years after playing them in the same competition in 1995. The club currently plays in Ligue 1.\n\nBesides SC Bastia there are two other amateur footbal clubs: CA Bastia who currently play in the Championnat National and ÉF Bastia. A fourth club, the \"Football Corsica Club Bastiais\" (FCCB) disappeared after playing in six amateur championships in Corsica in the 1950s Historically each of these four clubs was supported by a different part of the city: the Place Saint-Nicolas district were blue (SC Bastia), the Old Port was black (CA Bastia), the citadel and the Saint Joseph district were white (EF Bastia), and the market area was red (FCCB). Sporting dominance has overshadowed other clubs in Bastia over time. At the end of the 2012/2013 season there were for the first time two professional clubs in Bastia: SC Bastia in Ligue 1 and the CA Bastia promoted from National, for a total of four Corsican professional football clubs (with AC Ajaccio in Ligue 1 and GFC Ajaccio, relegated to National but retaining its professional status).\n\nBastia was also a city-stage in the Tour de France 2013: the arrival point of the first stage from Porto-Vecchio and starting point for the second to Ajaccio.\n\nBastia is currently the headquarters for the French round of the FIA World Rally Championship.\n\nBastia is primarily a port city so the sea has a predominant place in the spatial organization of the city. Nowadays Bastia has three different ports.\n\n\nToday the city centre consists mainly of the citadel (also called \"Terra Nova\"), the Palace of the Governors, the Old Port with its surrounding neighbourhood and the market place, and finally all the buildings along the Paoli Boulevard – the main commercial street of the city which stretches from the courthouse to the Avenue Maréchal Sebastiani.\n\nIn recent decades Bastia and its region have had strong demographic growth which has now grown beyond the municipal boundaries.\n\nBastia has several hamlets and districts that are, from north to south:\n\nThe bastiaise agglomeration comntains most of the few industries that exist in Corsica. Bastia is the seat of the \"Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Bastia and Upper Corsica\".\n\nIn the Bastia region the Chamber of Commerce and Industry manages the following facilities:\n\nThe commune has a large number of buildings and sites that are registered as historical monuments:\n\nThe commune has many religious buildings and sites that are registered as historical monuments:\n\nThe churches contain a very large number of items which are registered as historical objects. For a complete list including links to descriptions (in French) and photos click here.\n\nSome culinary specialties from Bastia and its region:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52959553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52959553", "title": "Beryl Rawson", "text": "Beryl Rawson\n\nBeryl Rawson (24 July 1933 – 22 October 2010) was Professor and Visiting Fellow in Classics at the Faculty of Arts of the Australian National University (ANU). Her work \"made ANU a significant centre for classical studies\".\n\nHer career at the Australian National University began in 1964, when she was appointed senior lecturer in Classics. She served as Dean of the Faculty of the Arts from 1981–86 and in 1989 was appointed Professor of Classics, retiring in 1998.\n\nAs well as her academic duties, Rawson won five research grants between 1979 and 1991 and served on the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee and the Australian Research Council. She was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 2006. The administrative offices of the College of Arts and Social Sciences at ANU was named after her following her death. \n\nOn 13 December 2010, Vice-Chancellor of ANU, Professor Ian Chubb officially recognised the naming of the Beryl Rawson Building in her honour. \n\nIn the late 1970s she began using computers to analyse \"the mass of funerary inscriptions commemorating slaves and freedmen, their spouses and children\" and to better understand the lives of the lower classes in the early Roman Empire. She organised a number of conferences in Canberra on the Roman family (1981, 1988, 1994) and published collected papers resulting from these which included her own contributions, such as \"Children and childhood in Roman Italy\" (2003) and \"A companion to families in the Greek and Roman worlds\" (2010).\n"}
{"id": "8489440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8489440", "title": "CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model", "text": "CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model\n\nThe CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (CRM) provides an extensible ontology for concepts and information in cultural heritage and museum documentation. It is the international standard (ISO 21127:2014) for the controlled exchange of cultural heritage information. Galleries, libraries, archives, museums (GLAMs), and other cultural institutions are encouraged to use the CIDOC CRM to enhance accessibility to museum-related information and knowledge.\n\nThe CIDOC CRM emerged from the CIDOC Documentation Standards Group in the International Committee for Documentation of the International Council of Museums. Initially, until 1994, the work focused on developing an entity-relationship model for museum information, however, in 1996, the approach shifted to object-oriented modeling methodologies, resulting in the first \"CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (CRM)\" in 1999. The process of standardizing the CIDOC CRM began in 2000 and was completed in 2006 with its acceptance as the ISO 21127 standard.\n\nThe overall aim of the CIDOC CRM is to provide a reference model and information standard that museums, and other cultural heritage institutions, can use to describe their collections, and related business entities, to improve information sharing.\n\nThe CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (CRM) provides definitions and a formal structure for describing the implicit and explicit concepts and relationships used in cultural heritage documentation...to promote a shared understanding of cultural heritage information by providing a common and extensible semantic framework that any cultural heritage information can be mapped to. It is intended to be a common language for domain experts and implementers to formulate requirements for information systems and to serve as a guide for good practice of conceptual modelling. In this way, it can provide the \"semantic glue\" needed to mediate between different sources of cultural heritage information, such as that published by museums, libraries and archives. \nBy adopting formal semantics for the CIDOC CRM, the pre-conditions for machine-to-machine interoperability and integration have been established. Thus, CIDOC CRM is well placed to become an important information standard and reference model for Semantic Web initiatives, and serves as a guide for data, or database, modeling more generally. Technically speaking, CIDOC CRM lends itself to software applications that extensively use XML and RDF. Many cultural heritage institutions are investigating or building applications that use CIDOC CRM.\n\nFollowing the successful standardization of the CIDOC CRM, a new initiative, FRBRoo, was begun in 2006 to harmonize it with the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR). The aim of this initiative is to \"provide a formal ontology intended to capture and represent the underlying semantics of bibliographic information and to facilitate the integration, mediation, and interchange of bibliographic and museum information.\"\n\nThe \"CIDOC object-oriented Conceptual Reference Model\" (CRM) is a domain ontology, but includes its own version of an upper ontology.\n\nThe core classes cover:\n\nExamples of definitions:Persistent Item – a physical or conceptional item that has a persistent identity recognized within the duration of its existence by its identification rather than by its continuity or by observation. A Persistent Item is comparable to an endurant.Temporal Entity – includes events, eras/periods, and condition states which happen over a limited extent in time, and is disjoint with Persistent Item. A Temporal Entity is comparable to a perdurant.Propositional Object – a set of statements about real or imaginary things.Symbolic Object – a sign/symbol or an aggregation of signs/symbols.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2998919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998919", "title": "Calves' Head Club", "text": "Calves' Head Club\n\nCalves Head Club was a club established solely to ridicule the memory of Charles I of England shortly after his death. Its chief meeting was held on each 30 January, the anniversary of the king's execution.\n\nThe dishes served were a cod's head to represent Charles Stuart; a pike representing tyranny; a boar's head representing the king preying on his subjects; and calves' heads representing Charles I and his supporters. On the table an axe held the place of honour. After the banquet a copy of the Eikon Basilike was burnt, and a toast was made \"To those worthy patriots who killed the tyrant\". After the Restoration, the club met secretly. The first mention of it is in a tract reprinted in the Harleian Miscellany entitled \"The Secret History of the Calves Head Club\". The club survived till 1734, when the diners were mobbed owing to the popular ill-feeling which their outrages on good taste provoked, and the riot which ensued put a final stop to the meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "49362604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49362604", "title": "Carthaginian currency", "text": "Carthaginian currency\n\nCarthaginian or Punic currency refers to the coins of ancient Carthage, a Phoenician city-state located near present-day Tunis, Tunisia.\n\nThe base currency was the shekel, although its Punic pronunciation was probably .\n\nThe Phoenicians, despite their extensive trading empires, began minting coins relatively late. Siculo-Carthaginian currency began to be issued in the mid-4th century and probably preceded Phoenicia's own Tyrian shekels, which developed  . Carthage was also the first known state to utilize lightweight, flexible leather promissory notes.\n\nCarthage issued ½-shekel, shekel (7.20 g), 1⅔-shekel, double shekel, and triple shekel coins. 5-shekel pieces were issued in Sicily. It used gold, silver, electrum, bronze, and billon for its coins but did not make great use of them in North Africa. Instead, many of the surviving caches come from Carthage's holdings on Sardinia and Sicily. On Sardinia, a substantial amount of bronze coinage was struck during the First Punic War and again during the attempt to recover the island amid the Second. A large mass of bronze and silver coins and smaller issues in gold and electrum were struck on Sicily under administrators described as . The Siculo-Carthaginian issues of the First Punic War include one series featuring Melqart (\"Hercules\") obverse and a horse's head reverse. More commonly, Carthaginian currency featured a female head identified as the goddess Tanit. One issue of bronze coins in two denominations—Tanit the god of sun on the obverse and a galloping horse reverse—was coined at Kerkouane on Cape Bon during the resistance to the invasion of Regulus amid the First Punic War. A great deal of highly debased coins were struck at the end of the First Punic War, however, to deal with the empire's revolting mercenaries.\n\nBetween the First and Second Punic Wars, Carthage only issued bronze coins in North Africa, although the Barcids issued gold and silver coins in Spain bearing the head of Melqart obverse and a horse and palm tree reverse. The gold coins were produced at a weight of 7.50 g, reflecting a value of 12 silver shekels each at a bullion exchange rate of 1:11⅓. Spanish expansion and Roman plunder permitted issues in precious metals during the Second Punic War, including two large silver issues for use on Sicily. One set of half-shekels featured a diademed male head obverse and elephant reverse; another featured a male head with grain wreath obverse and a galloping horse reverse. By the war's end, bronze was again being used and, following the war, debased silver. The shekel also decreased in Barcid areas from 7.2 to around 7.0 g over the course of the war. Bronze coins similarly varied in weight between 8 and 10 g owing to varying exchange rates between it and the silver currency. The last issues before the Third Punic War attest to the city's revitalization, as they are again pure silver with a serrate edge.\n\nNumidian coins also circulated but were entirely of bronze.\n\nRecently, it has been proposed that the Germanic \"penny\", ', ', &c. may derive from an early borrowing of Punic (\"Pane\" or \"Pene\", \"Face\"), as the face of Carthaginian fertility goddess Tanit was represented on nearly all Carthaginian currency. The theory is, however, still disputed. Similarly, the supposed discovery of a cache of Carthaginian coins on Corvo in 1749 is the basis for supposing that the Carthaginians reached the Azores, but remains contentious.\n\nA collection of recovered coins is maintained at the Tunisian Mint Museum () at the Central Bank in Tunis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11052392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11052392", "title": "Caçapava do Sul", "text": "Caçapava do Sul\n\nCaçapava do Sul is a Brazilian municipality in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, located on the banks of the Camaquã River. As of 2016, the city has an estimated population of 34,664. It was the 2nd capital of the Piratini Republic from 1839 to 1840.\n\nThe economy depends primarily on the mining industry. Caçapava do Sul produces 80% of the calcareous rock mined in Rio Grande do Sul. For many years it was Brazil's major producer of copper and is still an important center of copper mining.\n\nA major deposit of copper ore was discovered in the 1940s by the CBC (Companhia Brasileira do Cobre / Brazilian Copper Company), under the direction of Brazilian industrialist and famous playboy Francisco \"Baby\" Pignatari. The area, about 5 kilometers from Caçapava, came to be known as the Minas do Camaquã (Camaquã Mines). This large operation contributed enormously to the town's economy and is still the site of operating copper mines, by such companies as Majestic Diamonds & Metals.\nThe area has several interesting natural formations. Nearby lies Pedra do Segredo (Stone of the Secret), a natural outcropping of stone that attracts mountain climbers and tourists from all over the state and elsewhere.\n\nThe city is located at latitude 30º30'44\"S and longitude 53º29'29\"W, at an altitude of 444 meters (1,443 ft). It has a geographical area of 3,044.8 km².\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51310453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51310453", "title": "Charles and Mary Beard", "text": "Charles and Mary Beard\n\nCharles A. Beard and Mary R. Beard were an American married couple, historical scholars, and long-time colleagues in the writing of works on American history, including \"The Rise of American Civilization\" and their seven-volume \"History of the United States\". Each also wrote extensively as an individual.\n"}
{"id": "11264114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11264114", "title": "Classical Antiquity (journal)", "text": "Classical Antiquity (journal)\n\nClassical Antiquity is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers all topics pertaining to the field of classics, including Greek and Roman literature, history, archaeology, art, philosophy and philology, from the Bronze Age through Late Antiquity. It is published by the University of California Press on behalf of the Department of Classics of the University of California, Berkeley. The editor-in-chief is Mark Griffith (University of California, Berkeley). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6355878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6355878", "title": "Culture during the Cold War", "text": "Culture during the Cold War\n\nThe Cold War was reflected in culture through music, movies, books, television and other media, as well as sports and social beliefs and behavior. One major element of the Cold War was the threat of a nuclear war; another was espionage. Many works use the Cold War as a backdrop, or directly take part in fictional conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union. The period 1953–62 saw Cold War themes first enter the mainstream culture as a public preoccupation. For the historical context in America see United States in the 1950s.\n\nCloak and dagger stories became part of the popular culture of the Cold War in both East and West, with innumerable novels and movies that showed how polarized and dangerous the world was. Soviet audiences thrilled at spy stories showing how their KGB agents protected the motherland by foiling dirty work by America's nefarious CIA, Britain's devious MI-6, and Israel's devilish Mossad. After 1963, Hollywood increasingly depicted the CIA as clowns (as in the comedy TV series \"Get Smart\") or villains (as in Oliver Stone's \"JFK\" (1992).\n\n\nDuring the Cold War, films functioned as a means to influence and control public opinion internally. The United States and the Soviet Union invested heavily in propaganda designed to influence the hearts and minds of people around the world, especially using motion pictures. Cold War films produced by both sides attempted to address different facets of the superpower conflict and sought to influence both domestic and foreign opinion. The gap between American and Soviet film gave the Americans a distinct advantage over the Soviet Union; America was readily prepared to utilize their cinematic achievements as a way to effectively impact the public opinion in a way the Soviet Union could not. Cinema, Americans hoped, would help close the gap caused by Soviet development of nuclear weapons and advancements in space technology. The use of film as an effective form of widespread propaganda transformed cinema into another Cold War battlefront.\n\nThe Americans took advantage of their pre-existing cinematic advantage over the Soviet Union, using movies as another way to create the Communist enemy. In the early years of the Cold War (between 1948–53), seventy explicitly anti-communist films were released. American films incorporated a wide scale of Cold War themes and issues into all genres of film, which gave American motion pictures a particular lead over Soviet film. Despite the audiences' lack of zeal for Anti-Communist/Cold War related cinema, the films produced evidently did serve as successful propaganda in both America and the USSR. The films released during this time received a response from the Soviet Union, which subsequently released its own array of films to combat the depiction of the Communist threat.\n\nSeveral organizations played a key role in ensuring that Hollywood acted in the national best interest of the U.S. Catholic Legion of Decency and the Production Code Administration acted as two conservative groups that controlled a great deal of the national repertoire during the early stages of the Cold War. These groups filtered out politically subversive or morally questionable movies. More blatantly illustrating the shift from cinema as an art form to cinema as a form of strategic weapon, the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals ensured that filmmakers adequately expressed their patriotism. Beyond these cinema-specific efforts, the FBI played a surprisingly large role in the production of movies, instituting a triangular-shaped film strategy: FBI set up a surveillance operation in Hollywood, made efforts to pinpoint and blacklist Communists, secretly laundered intelligence through HUAC, and further helped in producing movies that \"fostered [the FBI] image as the protector of the American people.\" The FBI additionally endorsed films, including Oscar winner \"The Hoaxsters.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, Hollywood began using spy films to create the enemy through film. Previously, the influence of the Cold War could be seen in many, if not all, genres of American film. By the 1960s, spy films were effectively a \"weapon of confrontation between the two world systems.\" Both sides heightened paranoia and created a sense of constant unease in viewers through the increased production of spy films. Film depicted the enemy in a way that caused both sides to increase general suspicion of foreign and domestic threat.\n\nBetween 1946–54, the Soviet Union mimicked the US adoption of cinema as a weapon. The Central United Film Studios and the Committee on Cinema Affairs were committed to the Cold War battle. Under Stalin's rule, movies could only be made within strict confines. Cinema and government were, as it stood, inextricably linked. Many films were banned for being insufficiently patriotic. Nonetheless, the Soviet Union produced a plethora of movies with the aim to blatantly function as negative propaganda.\n\nIn the same fashion as the United States, the Soviets were eager to depict their enemy in the most unflattering light possible. Between 1946 and 1950, 45.6% of on-screen villains in Soviet films were either American or British. Films addressed non-Soviet themes that emerged in American film in an attempt to derail the criticism and paint the U.S. as the enemy. Attacks made by the United States against the U.S.S.R were simply used as material by Soviet filmmakers for their own attacks on the US. Soviet cinema during this time took its liberty with history: \"Did the Red Army engage in the mass rapes of German women and pillage German art treasures, factories, and forests? In Soviet cinema, the opposite was true [in \"The Meeting on the Elbe\"].\" This demonstrated the heightened paranoia of the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite efforts made to elevate the status of cinema, such as changing the Committee of Cinema Affairs to the Ministry of Cinematography, cinema did not seem to work as invigorating propaganda as was planned. Although the Anti-American films were notably popular with audiences, the Ministry did not feel the message had reached the general public, perhaps due to the fact that the majority of moviegoers seeing the films produced were, perhaps, the Soviets most likely to admire American culture.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, a Main Administration of Cinema Affairs replaced the Ministry, allowing the filmmakers more freedom due to the lack of direct government control. Many of the films released throughout the late 1950s and 1960s focused on spreading a positive image of Soviet life, intent to prove that Soviet life was indeed better than American life.\n\nRussian science fiction emerged from a prolonged period of censorship in 1957, opened up by de-Stalinization and real Soviet achievements in the space race, typified by Ivan Efremov's galactic epic, \"Andromeda\" (1957). Official Communist science fiction transposed the laws of historical materialism to the future, scorning Western nihilistic writings and predicting a peaceful transition to universal communism. Scientocratic visions of the future nevertheless implicitly critiqued the bureaucratically developed socialism of the present. Dissident science fiction writers emerged, such as the Strugatski brothers, Boris and Arkadi, with their \"social fantasies,\" problematizing the role of intervention in the historical process, or Stanislaw Lem's tongue-in-cheek exposures of man's cognitive limitations.\n\n\nIn addition to fears of a nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union, during the Cold War, there were also fears of a direct, large scale conventional conflict between the two superpowers.\n\n\n\n\nWendy's Hamburger Chain ran a television commercial showing a supposed \"Soviet Fashion Show\", which featured the same large, unattractive woman wearing the same dowdy outfit in a variety of situations, the only difference being the accessory she carried (for example, a flashlight for 'nightwear' or a beach ball for 'swimwear'). This was supposedly a lampoon on how the Soviet society is characterised with uniformity and standardisation, in contrast to the U.S. characterised with freedom of choice, as highlighted in the Wendy's commercial.\n\nApple Computer's \"1984\" ad, despite paying homage to George Orwell's novel of the same name, follows a more serious yet ambitious take on the freedom vs. totalitarianism theme evident between the US and Soviet societies at the time.\n\n\"Daisy\" was the most famous campaign commercial of the Cold War. Aired only once, on 7 September 1964, it was a factor in Lyndon B. Johnson's defeat of Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election. The contents of the commercial were controversial, and their emotional impact was searing.\n\nThe commercial opens with a very young girl standing in a meadow with chirping birds, slowly counting the petals of a daisy as she picks them one by one. Her sweet innocence, along with mistakes in her counting, endear her to the viewer. When she reaches \"9\", an ominous-sounding male voice is suddenly heard intoning the countdown of a rocket launch. As the girl's eyes turn toward something she sees in the sky, the camera zooms in until one of her pupils fills the screen, blacking it out. The countdown reaches zero, and the blackness is instantly replaced by a simultaneous bright flash and thunderous sound which is then followed by footage of a nuclear explosion, an explosion similar in appearance to the near surface burst Trinity test of 1945, followed by another cut to footage of a billowing mushroom cloud.\n\nAs the fireball ascends, an edit cut is made, this time to a close-up section of incandescence in the mushroom cloud, over which a voiceover from Johnson is played, which states emphatically, \"These are the stakes! To make a world in which all of God's children can live, or to go into the dark. We must either love each other, or we must die.\" Another voiceover then says, \"Vote for President Johnson on November 3. The stakes are too high for you to stay home.\" (Two months later, Johnson won the election in an electoral landslide.)\n\nBear in the woods was a 1984 campaign advertisement endorsing Ronald Reagan for President. This campaign ad depicted a brown bear wandering through the woods (likely implying the Soviet Union) and suggested that Reagan was more capable of dealing with the Soviets than his opponent, in spite of the fact that the ad never explicitly mentioned the Soviet Union, the Cold War or Walter Mondale.\n\nThe 1984 \"We begin bombing in five minutes\" incident is an example of cold war dark humor. It was a personal microphone gaffe joke between Ronald Reagan, his White House staff and radio technicians that was accidentally leaked to the US populace. At the time, Reagan was well known before this incident for telling Soviet/Russian jokes in televised debates, many of which have now been uploaded to video hosting websites.\n\nThe joke was a parody of the opening line of that day's speech:\n\nFollowing his trip to Los Angeles in 1959 and being refused entry into Disneyland, on security grounds, a dejected Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev joked, \"...just now I was told that I could not go to Disneyland, I asked \"Why not?\" What is it, do you have rocket launching pads there?\n\nThe United States and the Soviet Union engaged in competition vis-à-vis the arts. Cultural competition played out in Moscow, New York, London, and Paris. The Soviets excelled at ballet and chess, the Americans at jazz and abstract expressionist paintings. The US funded its own ballet troupes, and both used ballet as political propaganda, using dance to reflect life style in the \"battle for the hearts and minds of men.\" The defection of a premier dancer became a major coup.\n\nFrom 1956 through the late 1970s, the U.S. State Department sent its finest jazz musicians to show off music that appealed to youth, to demonstrate racial harmony at home, and to undergird freedom as jazz was a democratic music form, free flowing and improvised. Jazz tours of the Soviet Union were organized in 1956, and lasted through the 1970s.\n\nChess was inexpensive enough—and the Russians always won until America unleashed Bobby Fischer. Vastly more expensive was the Space Race, as a proxy for scientific supremacy (with a technology with obvious military uses). As well when it came to sports the two countries both competed in the Olympics during the Cold War period which also created severe tension when the West boycotted the first Russian Olympics in 1980.\n\nMusicians of these decades, especially in Jazz and Folk Music, were influenced by the shadow of nuclear war. Probably the most famous, passionate and influential of all was Bob Dylan, notably in his songs Masters of War and A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall (written just before the Cuban Missile Crisis). In 1965 Barry McGuire's version of P. F. Sloan's apocalyptic Eve of Destruction was a number one hit in the United States and elsewhere.\n\nVan Cliburn was a pianist who was celebrated with a ticker tape parade after winning a musical competition in the Soviet Union.\n\nMany protest songs during the 1980s reflected general unease with escalating tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States brought on by Ronald Reagan's and Margaret Thatcher's hard line against the Soviets. For example, various musical artists wore military uniform-like costumes, as a reflection of the increased feeling of militarism seen in the 1980s. Songs symbolically showed the superpowers going to war, as in the Frankie Goes to Hollywood song \"Two Tribes\". This song's MTV music video featured caricatures of United States President Ronald Reagan and Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko in a wrestling match.\n\nOther songs expressed fear of World War III, as in the Sting song, \"Russians\", with lyrics such as \"I don't subscribe to his [Reagan's or Khrushchev's] point of view\" (that Reagan would protect Europe, or that Khrushchev would \"bury\" the West). Other examples include Sly Fox's \"Let's go all the way\", a song about \"going all the way\" to nuclear war; The Escape Club's \"Wild Wild West\" with its various references to the Cold War. The Genesis song \"Land of Confusion\" expressed a desire to make some sense out of the world, especially in relation to nuclear war.\n\nA number of punk rock bands from the 1980s attacked Cold War era politics, such as Reagan's and Thatcher's nuclear deterrence brinkmanship. A small sampling includes The Clash, Dead Kennedys, Government Issue, Fear, Suicidal Tendencies, Toxic Reasons, Reagan Youth, etc. Noted punk compilation \"P.E.A.C.E.\" included bands from around the world in an attempt to promote international peace. The Scars covered apocalyptic poem \"Your Attention Please\" by Peter Porter, a radio broadcast announcing nuclear war.\n\nProbably the most famous of the 1980s songs against increased confrontation between the Soviets and the Americans was Nena's \"99 Luftballons\", which described the events - ostensibly starting with the innocent release of 99 (red) toy balloons - that could lead to a nuclear war.\n\nImperiet – \"Coca Cola Cowboys\" – a Swedish rock song about how the world is divided by two super powers that both claim to represent justice.\n\nRoman Palester, a classical music composer had his works banned and censored in Poland and the Soviet Union, as a result of his work for Radio Free Europe, even though he was thought to be Poland's greatest living composer at the time.\n\n\nHistorians debate whether the spread of American-style consumerism to Western Europe (and Japan) was part of the Cold War. Steigerwald reviews the debate by looking at the book \"Trams or Tailfins? Public and Private Prosperity in Postwar West Germany and the United States\" (2012) by Jan L. Logemann:\n\nCold war tensions between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. were the backdrop of sports competitions, especially in hockey and in the Olympics of 1980 and 1984.\n\nPlayground equipment constructed during the Cold War was intended to foster children's curiosity and excitement about the Space Race. It was installed in both Communist and non-Communist countries throughout the Cold War.\n\n\nAnti-nuclear protests first emerged in the late 1950s and early 1960s. In the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March, organised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, took place in 1958. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1964, Peace Marches in several Australian capital cities featured \"Ban the bomb\" placards.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the revival of the nuclear arms race triggered large protests about nuclear weapons. In October 1981 half a million people took to the streets in several cities in Italy, more than 250,000 people protested in Bonn, 250,000 demonstrated in London, and 100,000 marched in Brussels. The largest anti-nuclear protest was held on June 12, 1982, when one million people demonstrated in New York City against nuclear weapons. In October 1983, nearly 3 million people across western Europe protested nuclear missile deployments and demanded an end to the arms race; the largest crowd of almost one million people assembled in the Hague in the Netherlands. In Britain, 400,000 people participated in what was probably the largest demonstration in British history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7925", "title": "David Hume", "text": "David Hume\n\nDavid Hume (; born David Home; 7 May 1711 NS – 25 August 1776) was a Scottish Enlightenment philosopher, historian, economist, and essayist, who is best known today for his highly influential system of philosophical empiricism, skepticism, and naturalism. Hume's empiricist approach to philosophy places him with John Locke, George Berkeley, Francis Bacon and Thomas Hobbes as a British Empiricist. Beginning with his \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" (1739), Hume strove to create a total naturalistic science of man that examined the psychological basis of human nature. Against philosophical rationalists, Hume held that passion rather than reason governs human behaviour. Hume argued against the existence of innate ideas, positing that all human knowledge is founded solely in experience; Hume thus held that genuine knowledge must either be directly traceable to objects perceived in experience, or result from abstract reasoning about relations between ideas which are derived from experience, calling the rest \"nothing but sophistry and illusion\", a dichotomy later given the name \"Hume's fork\".\n\nIn what is sometimes referred to as Hume's problem of induction, he argued that inductive reasoning and belief in causality cannot be justified rationally; instead, our trust in causality and induction result from custom and mental habit, and are attributable only to the experience of \"constant conjunction\" of events. This is because we can never actually perceive that one event causes another, but only that the two are always conjoined. Accordingly, to draw any causal inferences from past experience it is necessary to presuppose that the future will resemble the past, a presupposition which cannot itself be grounded in prior experience.\n\nHume's opposition to the teleological argument for God's existence, the argument from design, is generally regarded as the most intellectually significant attempt to rebut the argument prior to Darwinism.\n\nHume was also a sentimentalist who held that ethics are based on emotion or sentiment rather than abstract moral principle, famously proclaiming that \"Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions\". Hume's moral theory has been seen as a unique attempt to synthesise the modern sentimentalist moral tradition to which Hume belonged, with the virtue ethics tradition of ancient philosophy, with which Hume concurred in regarding traits of character, rather than acts or their consequences, as ultimately the proper objects of moral evaluation. Hume maintained an early commitment to naturalistic explanations of moral phenomena, and is usually taken to have first clearly expounded the is–ought problem, or the idea that a statement of fact alone can never give rise to a normative conclusion of what \"ought\" to be done. Hume also denied that humans have an actual conception of the self, positing that we experience only a bundle of sensations, and that the self is nothing more than this bundle of causally-connected perceptions. Hume's compatibilist theory of free will takes causal determinism as fully compatible with human freedom.\n\nHume influenced utilitarianism, logical positivism, Immanuel Kant, the philosophy of science, early analytic philosophy, cognitive science, theology, and other movements and thinkers. Kant himself credited Hume as the spur to his philosophical thought who had awakened him from his \"dogmatic slumbers\".\n\nHume was the second of two sons born to Joseph Home of Ninewells, an advocate, and his wife The Hon. Katherine (\"née\" Falconer), daughter of Sir David Falconer. He was born on 26 April 1711 (Old Style) in a tenement on the north side of the Lawnmarket in Edinburgh. Hume's father died when Hume was a child, just after his second birthday, and he was raised by his mother, who never remarried. He changed the spelling of his name in 1734, because of the fact that his surname \"Home,\" pronounced \"Hume,\" was not known in England. Throughout his life Hume, who never married, spent time occasionally at his family home at Ninewells in Berwickshire, which had belonged to his family since the sixteenth century. His finances as a young man were very \"slender\". His family was not rich, and, as a younger son, he had little patrimony to live on. He was therefore forced to make a living somehow.\n\nHume attended the University of Edinburgh at the unusually early age of 12 (possibly as young as 10) at a time when 14 was normal. At first, because of his family, he considered a career in law, but came to have, in his words, \"an insurmountable aversion to everything but the pursuits of Philosophy and general Learning; and while [my family] fanceyed I was poring over Voet and Vinnius, Cicero and Virgil were the Authors which I was secretly devouring\". He had little respect for the professors of his time, telling a friend in 1735 that \"there is nothing to be learnt from a Professor, which is not to be met with in Books\". Hume did not graduate.\n\nAged around 18, he made a philosophical discovery that opened up to him \"a new Scene of Thought\", which inspired him \"to throw up every other Pleasure or Business to apply entirely to it\". He did not recount what this scene was, and commentators have offered a variety of speculations. One popular interpretation, prominent in contemporary Hume scholarship, is that the new \"scene of thought\" was Hume's realization that Francis Hutcheson's \"moral sense\" theory of morality could be applied to the understanding as well. Due to this inspiration, Hume set out to spend a minimum of 10 years reading and writing. He soon came to the verge of a mental breakdown, suffering from what a doctor diagnosed as the \"Disease of the Learned\". Hume wrote that it started with a coldness, which he attributed to a \"Laziness of Temper\", that lasted about nine months. Later, some scurvy spots broke out on his fingers. This was what persuaded Hume's physician to make his diagnosis. Hume wrote that he \"went under a Course of Bitters and Anti-Hysteric Pills\", taken along with a pint of claret every day. Hume also decided to have a more active life to better continue his learning. His health improved somewhat, but, in 1731, he was afflicted with a ravenous appetite and palpitations of the heart. After eating well for a time, he went from being \"tall, lean and raw-bon'd\" to being \"sturdy, robust [and] healthful-like\". Indeed, Hume would become well known in his time for his \"corpulence\", and his fondness for good port and cheese.\n\nAt 25 years of age, Hume, although of noble ancestry, had no source of income and no learned profession. As was common at his time, he became a merchant's assistant, but he had to leave his native Scotland. He travelled via Bristol to La Flèche in Anjou, France. There he had frequent discourse with the Jesuits of the College of La Flèche.\n\nWhile Hume was derailed in his attempts to start a university career by protests over his \"atheism\" and bemoaned that his literary debut, \"A Treatise of Human Nature\", 'fell dead-born from the press', he found literary success in his lifetime as an essayist, and a career as a librarian at the University of Edinburgh. His tenure there, and the access to research materials it provided, ultimately resulted in Hume's writing the massive six-volume \"The History of England\", which became a bestseller and the standard history of England in its day. Hume described his \"love for literary fame\" as his \"ruling passion\" and judged his two late works, the so-called \"first\" and \"second\" enquiries, \"An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\" and \"An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals\", respectively, as his greatest literary and philosophical achievements, asking his contemporaries to judge him on the merits of the later texts alone, rather than the more radical formulations of his early, youthful work, dismissing his philosophical debut as juvenilia: \"A work which the Author had projected before he left College.\" Despite Hume's protestations, a general consensus exists today that Hume's most important arguments and philosophically distinctive doctrines are found in the original form they take in the \"Treatise\". Hume was just 23 years old when he started this work and it is now regarded as one of the most important in the history of Western philosophy.\n\nHe worked for four years on his first major work, \"A Treatise of Human Nature\", subtitled \"Being an Attempt to Introduce the Experimental Method of Reasoning into Moral Subjects\", completing it in 1738 at the age of 28. Although many scholars today consider the \"Treatise\" to be Hume's most important work and one of the most important books in Western philosophy, the critics in Great Britain at the time did not agree, describing it as \"abstract and unintelligible\". As Hume had spent most of his savings during those four years, he resolved \"to make a very rigid frugality supply my deficiency of fortune, to maintain unimpaired my independency, and to regard every object as contemptible except the improvements of my talents in literature\". Despite the disappointment, Hume later wrote, \"Being naturally of a cheerful and sanguine temper, I soon recovered from the blow and prosecuted with great ardour my studies in the country.\" There, in an attempt to make his larger work better known and more intelligible, he published the \"An Abstract of a Book lately Published\" as a summary of the main doctrines of the \"Treatise\", without revealing its authorship. Although there has been some academic speculation as to who actually wrote this pamphlet it is generally regarded as Hume's creation.\n\nAfter the publication of \"Essays Moral and Political\" in 1741, which was included in the later edition called \"Essays, Moral, Political, and Literary\", Hume applied for the Chair of Pneumatics and Moral Philosophy at the University of Edinburgh. However, the position was given to William Cleghorn after Edinburgh ministers petitioned the town council not to appoint Hume because he was seen as an atheist.\n\nDuring the 1745 Jacobite rising, Hume tutored the Marquess of Annandale (1720–92), who was \"judged to be a lunatic\". This engagement ended in disarray after about a year. However, it was then that Hume started his great historical work \"The History of England\". This took him fifteen years and ran to over a million words. During this time he was also involved with the Canongate Theatre through his friend John Home, a preacher.\n\nIn this context, he associated with Lord Monboddo and other Scottish Enlightenment luminaries in Edinburgh. From 1746, Hume served for three years as secretary to General James St Clair, who was envoy to the courts of Turin and Vienna. At that time Hume also wrote \"Philosophical Essays Concerning Human Understanding\", later published as \"An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\". Often called the \"First Enquiry\", it proved little more successful than the \"Treatise\", perhaps because of the publishing of his short autobiography, \"My Own Life\", which \"made friends difficult for the first Enquiry\".\nIn 1749 he went to live with his brother in the countryside.\n\nHume's religious views were often suspect. It was necessary in the 1750s for his friends to avert a trial against him on the charge of heresy. However, he \"would not have come and could not be forced to attend if he said he was not a member of the Established Church\". Hume failed to gain the chair of philosophy at the University of Glasgow for his religious views, too. He had published the \"Philosophical Essays\" by this time which were decidedly anti-religious. Even Adam Smith, his personal friend who had vacated the Glasgow philosophy chair, was against his appointment out of concern public opinion would be against it.\n\nHume returned to Edinburgh in 1751. In the following year \"the Faculty of Advocates chose me their Librarian, an office from which I received little or no emolument, but which gave me the command of a large library\". This resource enabled him to continue historical research for \"The History of England\". Hume's volume of \"Political Discourses\", written in 1749 and published by Kincaid & Donaldson in 1752, was the only work he considered successful on first publication.\n\nEventually, with the publication of his six-volume \"The History of England\" between 1754 and 1762, Hume achieved the fame that he coveted. The volumes traced events from the Invasion of Julius Caesar to the Revolution of 1688, and was a bestseller in its day.\n\nHume was also a longtime friend of bookseller Andrew Millar, who sold Hume's \"History\" (after acquiring the rights from Scottish bookseller Gavin Hamilton), although the relationship was sometimes complicated. Letters between them illuminate both men's interest in the success of the \"History\".\n\nFrom 1763 to 1765, Hume was invited to attend Lord Hertford in Paris, where he became secretary to the British embassy. Hume was well received in Paris, and while there he met with Isaac de Pinto In 1766, Hume left Paris to accompany Jean-Jacques Rousseau to England. Once in England, Hume and Rousseau fell out. Hume was sufficiently worried about the damage to his reputation from the quarrel with Rousseau (who is generally believed to have suffered from paranoia) to have authored an account of the dispute, which he titled, appropriately enough \"A concise and genuine account of the dispute between Mr. Hume and Mr. Rousseau.\" In 1765, he served as British Chargé d'affaires, writing \"despatches to the British Secretary of State\". He wrote of his Paris life, \"I really wish often for the plain roughness of The Poker Club of Edinburgh ... to correct and qualify so much lusciousness\". In 1766, upon returning to Britain, Hume encouraged Lord Hertford to invest in a number of slave plantations, acquired by George Colebrooke and others in the Windward Islands. In 1767, Hume was appointed Under Secretary of State for the Northern Department. Here he wrote that he was given \"all the secrets of the Kingdom\". In 1769 he returned to James' Court in Edinburgh, and then lived, from 1771 until his death in 1776, at the southwest corner of St. Andrew's Square in Edinburgh's New Town, at what is now 21 Saint David Street. A popular story, consistent with some historical evidence, suggests the street may have been named after Hume.\n\nIn the last year of his life, Hume wrote an extremely brief autobiographical essay titled \"My Own Life\" which summed up his entire life in \"fewer than 5 pages\", and notably contains many interesting judgments that have been of enduring interest to subsequent readers of Hume. The scholar of 18th-century literature Donald Seibert judged it a \"remarkable autobiography, even though it may lack the usual attractions of that genre. Anyone hankering for startling revelations or amusing anecdotes had better look elsewhere.\" Hume here confesses his belief that the \"love of literary fame\" had served as his \"ruling passion\" in life, and claims that this desire \"never soured my temper, notwithstanding my frequent disappointments.\" One such disappointment Hume discusses in the mini-autobiography was his disappointment that with the initial literary reception of the \"Treatise\", which he claims to have overcome by means of the success of the \"Essays\": \"the work was favourably received, and soon made me entirely forget my former disappointment\". Hume, in his own retrospective judgment, suggested that his philosophical debut's apparent failure \"had proceeded more from the manner than the matter.\" Hume thus suggests that \"I had been guilty of a very usual indiscretion, in going to the press too early.\" Hume provides an unambiguous self-assessment of the relative value of his works: \"my Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals; which, in my own opinion (who ought not to judge on that subject) is of all my writings, historical, philosophical, or literary, incomparably the best.\" Hume also makes a number of self-assessments in the essay, writing of his social relations that \"My company was not unacceptable to the young and careless, as well as to the studious and literary\", noting of his complex relation to religion, as well as the state, that \"though I wantonly exposed myself to the rage of both civil and religious factions, they seemed to be disarmed in my behalf of their wonted fury\", and professing of his character that \"My friends never had occasion to vindicate any one circumstance of my character and conduct.\" Hume concludes the essay with the frank admission: \" I cannot say there is no vanity in making this funeral oration of myself, but I hope it is not a misplaced one; and this is a matter of fact which is easily cleared and ascertained.\"\n\nDiarist and biographer James Boswell saw Hume a few weeks before his death, which was from some form of abdominal cancer. Hume told him he sincerely believed it a \"most unreasonable fancy\" that there might be life after death. This meeting was dramatised in semi-fictional form for the BBC by Michael Ignatieff as \"Dialogue in the Dark\". Hume asked that his body be interred in a \"simple Roman tomb\". In his will he requests that it be inscribed only with his name and the year of his birth and death, \"leaving it to Posterity to add the Rest\". It stands, as he wished it, on the southwestern slope of Calton Hill, in the Old Calton Cemetery. Adam Smith later recounted Hume's amusing speculation that he might ask Charon to allow him a few more years of life in order to see \"the downfall of some of the prevailing systems of superstition.\" The ferryman replied, \"You loitering rogue, that will not happen these many hundred years ... Get into the boat this instant\".\n\nIn the introduction to \"A Treatise of Human Nature\", Hume wrote, \"'Tis evident, that all the sciences have a relation, more or less, to human nature ... Even Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, and Natural Religion, are in some measure dependent on the science of Man.\" He also wrote that the science of man is the \"only solid foundation for the other sciences\" and that the method for this science requires both experience and observation as the foundations of a logical argument. On this aspect of Hume's thought, philosophical historian Frederick Copleston wrote that it was Hume's aim to apply to the science of man the method of experimental philosophy (the term that was current at the time to imply Natural philosophy), and that \"Hume's plan is to extend to philosophy in general the methodological limitations of Newtonian physics\".\n\nUntil recently, Hume was seen as a forerunner of logical positivism; a form of anti-metaphysical empiricism. According to the logical positivists, unless a statement could be verified by experience, or else was true or false by definition (i.e. either tautological or contradictory), then it was meaningless (this is a summary statement of their verification principle). Hume, on this view, was a proto-positivist, who, in his philosophical writings, attempted to demonstrate how ordinary propositions about objects, causal relations, the self, and so on, are semantically equivalent to propositions about one's experiences.\n\nMany commentators have since rejected this understanding of Humean empiricism, stressing an epistemological (rather than a semantic) reading of his project. According to this opposing view, Hume's empiricism consisted in the idea that it is our knowledge, and not our ability to conceive, that is restricted to what can be experienced. Hume thought that we can form beliefs about that which extends beyond any possible experience, through the operation of faculties such as custom and the imagination, but he was sceptical about claims to knowledge on this basis.\n\nOne of the most central doctrines of Hume's philosophy, stated in the very first lines of the \"Treatise\", is his notion that the mind consists of its mental perceptions, or the mental objects which are present to it, and which divide into two categories: \"impressions\" and \"ideas\". Hume's Treatise thus opens with the words: 'All the perceptions of the human mind resolve themselves into two distinct kinds, which I shall call IMPRESSIONS and IDEAS.\" Hume states that \"I believe it will not be very necessary to employ many words in explaining this distinction\" and commentators have generally taken Hume to mean the distinction between feeling and thinking. Controversially, Hume may regard the difference as in some sense a matter of degree, as he takes \"impressions\" to be distinguished from ideas, on the basis of their force, liveliness, and vivacity, or what Henry Allison calls the \"FLV criterion\" in his book on Hume. Ideas are therefore \"faint\" impressions. For example, experiencing the painful sensation of touching the handle of a hot pan is more forceful than simply thinking about touching a hot pan. According to Hume, impressions are meant to be the original form of all our ideas, and Don Garret has thus coined the term \"the copy principle\" to refer to Hume's doctrine that all ideas are ultimately all copied from some original impression, whether it be a passion or sensation, from which they derive.\n\nAfter establishing the forcefulness of impressions and ideas, these two categories are further broken down into simple and complex: simple impressions and ideas, and complex impressions and ideas. Hume states that “simple perceptions or impressions and ideas are such as admit of no distinction nor separation,” while “the complex are the contrary to these, and may be distinguished into parts.” When looking at an apple, a person experiences a variety of color-sensations, which Hume sees as a complex impression. Similarly, a person experiences a variety of taste-sensations, tactile-sensations, and smell-sensations when biting into an apple, with the overall sensation again being a complex impression. Thinking about an apple allows a person to form complex ideas, which are made of similar parts as the complex impressions they were developed from, but which are also less forceful. Hume believes that complex perceptions can be broken down into smaller and smaller parts until perceptions are reached that have no parts of their own, and these perceptions are thereby referred to as being simple.\nA person's imagination, regardless of how boundless it may seem, is confined to the mind's ability to recombine the information it has already acquired from the body's sensory experience (the ideas that have been derived from impressions). In addition, “as our imagination takes our most basic ideas and leads us to form new ones, it is directed by three principles of association, namely, resemblance, contiguity, and cause and effect.\" The principle of resemblance refers to the tendency of ideas to become associated if the objects they represent resemble one another. For example, a person looking at an illustration of a flower can conceive of an idea of the physical flower because the idea of the illustrated object is associated with the idea of the physical object. The principle of contiguity describes the tendency of ideas to become associated if the objects they represent are near to each other in time or space, such as when the thought of one crayon in a box leads a person to think of the crayon contiguous to it. Finally, the principle of cause and effect refers to the tendency of ideas to become associated if the objects they represent are causally related, which explains how remembering a broken window can make someone think of the baseball that caused the window to shatter.\nHume elaborates more on this last principle of cause and effect. When a person observes that one object or event consistently produces the same object or event, it results in “an expectation that a particular event (a 'cause') will be followed by another event (an 'effect') previously and constantly associated with it.\" Hume calls this principle custom, or habit, saying that “custom…renders our experience useful to us, and makes us expect, for the future, a similar train of events with those which have appeared in the past.\" However, even though custom can serve as a guide in life, it still only represents an expectation. In other words, “experience cannot establish a necessary connection between cause and effect, because we can imagine without contradiction a case where the cause does not produce its usual effect…the reason why we mistakenly infer that there is something in the cause that necessarily produces its effect is because our past experiences have habituated us to think in this way.\" Continuing this idea, Hume argues that \"only in the pure realm of ideas, logic, and mathematics, not contingent on the direct sense awareness of reality, [can] causation safely…be applied – all other sciences are reduced to probability.\" He uses this skepticism to reject metaphysics and many theological views on the basis that they are not grounded in fact and observations, and are therefore beyond the reach of human understanding.\n\nThe cornerstone of Hume's epistemology is the problem of induction. This may be the area of Hume's thought where his scepticism about human powers of reason is most pronounced. The problem revolves around the plausibility of inductive reasoning, that is, reasoning from the observed behaviour of objects to their behaviour when unobserved. As Hume wrote, induction concerns how things behave when they go \"beyond the present testimony of the senses, or the records of our memory\". Hume argues that we tend to believe that things behave in a regular manner, meaning that patterns in the behaviour of objects seem to persist into the future, and throughout the unobserved present. Hume's argument is that we cannot rationally justify the claim that nature will continue to be uniform, as justification comes in only two varieties—demonstrative reasoning and probable reasoning—and both of these are inadequate. With regard to demonstrative reasoning, Hume argues that the uniformity principle cannot be demonstrated, as it is \"consistent and conceivable\" that nature might stop being regular. Turning to probable reasoning, Hume argues that we cannot hold that nature will continue to be uniform because it has been in the past. As this is using the very sort of reasoning (induction) that is under question, it would be circular reasoning. Thus, no form of justification will rationally warrant our inductive inferences.\n\nHume's solution to this problem is to argue that, rather than reason, natural instinct explains the human practice of making inductive inferences. He asserts that \"Nature, by an absolute and uncontroulable necessity has determin'd us to judge as well as to breathe and feel.\" Agreeing, philosopher John D. Kenyon writes: \"Reason might manage to raise a doubt about the truth of a conclusion of natural inductive inference just for a moment ... but the sheer agreeableness of animal faith will protect us from excessive caution and sterile suspension of belief.\" Commentators such as Charles Sanders Peirce have demurred from Hume's solution, while, some, such as Kant and Karl Popper, saw that Hume's analysis \"had posed a most fundamental challenge to all human knowledge claims.\"\n\nThe notion of causation is closely linked to the problem of induction. According to Hume, we reason inductively by associating constantly conjoined events. It is the mental act of association that is the basis of our concept of causation. There are at least three interpretations of Hume's theory of causation represented in the literature: (1) the logical positivist; (2) the sceptical realist; and (3) the quasi-realist.\n\nHume acknowledged that there are events constantly unfolding, humanity cannot guarantee that these events are caused by events prior or if they are independent instances. Hume opposed the widely accepted theory of Causation that 'all events have a specific course or reason.' Therefore, Hume crafted his own theory of causation, which he formed through his empiricist and skeptic beliefs. He split Causation, into two realms “All the objects of human reason or enquiry may naturally be divided into two kinds, to wit, Relations of Ideas, and Matters of Fact”. Relations of Ideas are a priori, and represent universal bonds between ideas that mark the cornerstones of human thought. Matters of Fact are dependent on the observer and experience. They are often not universally held to be true among multiple persons. Hume was an Empiricist, meaning he believed “causes and effects are discoverable not by reason, but by experience”. Hume later goes on to say that even with the perspective of the past, humanity cannot dictate future events because thoughts of the past are limited, compared to the possibilities for the future. Hume's separation between Matters of Fact and Relations of Ideas is often referred to as \"Hume's fork\".\n\nHume explains his theory of Causation and causal inference by division into three different parts. In these three branches he explains his ideas, in addition to comparing and contrasting his views to his predecessors. These branches are the Critical Phase, the Constructive Phase, and Belief. In the Critical Phase, Hume denies his predecessors' theories of causation. Next, Hume uses the Constructive Phase to resolve any doubts the reader may have while observing the Critical Phase. “Habit or Custom” mends the gaps in reasoning that occur without the human mind even realizing it. Associating ideas has become second nature to the human mind. It “makes us expect for the future, a similar train of events with those which have appeared in the past” However, Hume says that this association cannot be trusted because the span of the human mind to comprehend the past is not necessarily applicable to the wide and distant future. This leads Hume to the third branch of causal inference, Belief. Belief is what drives the human mind to hold that expectancy of the future based on past experience. Throughout his explanation of causal inference, Hume is arguing that the future is not certain to be repetition of the past and the only way to justify induction is through uniformity.\n\nThe logical positivist interpretation is that Hume analyses causal propositions, such as \"A caused B\", in terms of regularities in perception: \"A causes B\" is equivalent to \"Whenever A-type events happen, B-type ones follow\", where \"whenever\" refers to all possible perceptions. In his \"Treatise of Human Nature\", Hume wrote:\npower and necessity ... are ... qualities of perceptions, not of objects ... felt by the soul and not perceiv'd externally in bodies.\nThis view is rejected by skeptical realists, who argue that Hume thought that causation amounts to more than just the regular succession of events. Hume said that when two events are causally conjoined, a necessary connection underpins the conjunction:\nShall we rest contented with these two relations of contiguity and succession, as affording a complete idea of causation? By no means ... there is a \"necessary connexion\" to be taken into consideration.\nPhilosopher Angela Coventry writes that, for Hume, \"there is nothing in any particular instance of cause and effect involving external objects which suggests the idea of power or necessary connection\" and that \"we are ignorant of the powers that operate between objects\". However, while denying the possibility of knowing the powers between objects, Hume accepted the causal principle, writing, \"I never asserted so absurd a proposition as that something could arise without a cause.\"\n\nIt has been argued that, while Hume did not think causation is reducible to pure regularity, he was not a fully fledged realist either. Philosopher Simon Blackburn calls this a quasi-realist reading. Blackburn writes that \"Someone talking of cause is voicing a distinct mental set: he is by no means in the same state as someone merely describing regular sequences. In Hume's words, \"nothing is more usual than to apply to external bodies every internal sensation, which they occasion\".\n\nEmpiricist philosophers, such as Hume and Berkeley, favoured the bundle theory of personal identity. In this theory, \"the mind itself, far from being an independent power, is simply 'a bundle of perceptions' without unity or cohesive quality\". The self is nothing but a bundle of experiences linked by the relations of causation and resemblance; or, more accurately, that the empirically warranted idea of the self is just the idea of such a bundle. This view is forwarded by, for example, positivist interpreters, who saw Hume as suggesting that terms such as \"self\", \"person\", or \"mind\" referred to collections of \"sense-contents\". A modern-day version of the bundle theory of the mind has been advanced by Derek Parfit in his \"Reasons and Persons\".\n\nHowever, some philosophers have criticised Hume's bundle-theory interpretation of personal identity. They argue that distinct selves can have perceptions that stand in relations of similarity and causality with one another. Thus, perceptions must already come parcelled into distinct \"bundles\" before they can be associated according to the relations of similarity and causality. In other words, the mind must already possess a unity that cannot be generated, or constituted, by these relations alone. Since the bundle-theory interpretation portrays Hume as answering an ontological question, philosophers, like Galen Strawson, who see Hume as not very concerned with such questions have queried whether the view is really Hume's. Instead, it is suggested by Strawson that Hume might have been answering an epistemological question about the causal origin of our concept of the self. In the Appendix to the \"Treatise\", Hume declares himself dissatisfied with his earlier account of personal identity in Book 1. Philosopher Corliss Swain notes that \"Commentators agree that if Hume did find some new problem\" when he reviewed the section on personal identity, \"he wasn't forthcoming about its nature in the Appendix.\" One interpretation of Hume's view of the self has been argued for by philosopher and psychologist James Giles. According to his view, Hume is not arguing for a bundle theory, which is a form of reductionism, but rather for an eliminative view of the self. That is, rather than reducing the self to a bundle of perceptions, Hume is rejecting the idea of the self altogether. On this interpretation, Hume is proposing a \"no-self theory\" and thus has much in common with Buddhist thought. On this point, psychologist Alison Gopnik has argued that Hume was in a position to learn about Buddhist thought during his time in France in the 1730s.\n\nAn essential question of practical reason for Hume was whether or not standards or principles exist (and if they do, what they are) for practical reason, that are also authoritative for all rational beings, dictating people's intentions and actions. Hume is mainly considered an anti-rationalist, denying the possibility for practical reason as a principle to exist, although other philosophers such as Christine Korsgaard, Jean Hampton, and Elijah Millgram claim that Hume is not so much of an anti-rationalist as he is just a skeptic of practical reason.\n\nHume denied the existence of practical reason as a principle because he claimed reason does not have any effect on morality, since morality is capable of producing effects in people that reason alone cannot create. As Hume explains in \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" (1740): “Morals excite passions, and produce or prevent actions. Reason of itself is utterly impotent in this particular. The rules of morality, therefore, are not conclusions of our reason.”\n\nSince practical reason is supposed to regulate our actions (in theory), Hume denied practical reason on the grounds that reason cannot directly oppose passions. As Hume puts it, “Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions, and can never pretend to any other office than to serve and obey them.” Reason is less significant than any passion because reason has no original influence, while \"A passion is an original existence, or, if you will, modification of existence\".\n\nPractical reason is also concerned with the value of actions rather than the truth of propositions, so Hume believed that reason's shortcoming of affecting morality proved that practical reason could not be authoritative for all rational beings, since morality was essential for dictating people's intentions and actions.\n\nHume's writings on ethics began in the \"Treatise\" and were refined in his \"An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals\" (1751). His views on ethics are that \"[m]oral decisions are grounded in moral sentiment.\" It is not knowing that governs ethical actions, but feelings. Arguing that reason cannot be behind morality, he wrote:\nMorals excite passions, and produce or prevent actions. Reason itself is utterly impotent in this particular. The rules of morality, therefore, are not conclusions of our reason.\nHume's moral sentimentalism about morality was shared by his close friend Adam Smith, and Hume and Smith were mutually influenced by the moral reflections of their older contemporary Francis Hutcheson. Peter Singer claims that Hume's argument that morals cannot have a rational basis alone \"would have been enough to earn him a place in the history of ethics\".\n\nHume also put forward the is–ought problem, later called \"Hume's Law\", denying the possibility of logically deriving what \"ought\" to be from what \"is\". He wrote in the \"Treatise\" that in every system of morality he has read, the author begins with stating facts about the world, but then suddenly is always referring to what ought to be the case. Hume demands that a reason should be given for inferring what ought to be the case, from what is the case. This because it \"seems altogether inconceivable, how this new relation can be a deduction from others\".\n\nHume's theory of ethics has been influential in modern-day meta-ethical theory, helping to inspire emotivism, and ethical expressivism and non-cognitivism, as well as Allan Gibbard's general theory of moral judgment and judgments of rationality.\n\nHume's ideas about aesthetics and the theory of art are spread throughout his works, but are particularly connected with his ethical writings, and also the essays \"Of the Standard of Taste\" and \"Of Tragedy\". His views are rooted in the work of Joseph Addison and Francis Hutcheson. In the \"Treatise\" he wrote of the connection between beauty and deformity and vice and virtue, and his later writings on this subject continue to draw parallels of beauty and deformity in art, with conduct and character.\n\nIn \"Of the Standard of Taste\", Hume argues that no rules can be drawn up about what is a tasteful object. However, a reliable critic of taste can be recognised as being objective, sensible and unprejudiced, and having extensive experience. \"Of Tragedy\" addresses the question of why humans enjoy tragic drama. Hume was concerned with the way spectators find pleasure in the sorrow and anxiety depicted in a tragedy. He argued that this was because the spectator is aware that he is witnessing a dramatic performance. There is pleasure in realising that the terrible events that are being shown are actually fiction. Furthermore, Hume laid down rules for educating people in taste and correct conduct, and his writings in this area have been very influential on English and Anglo-Saxon aesthetics.\n\nHume, along with Thomas Hobbes, is cited as a classical compatibilist about the notions of freedom and determinism. The thesis of compatibilism seeks to reconcile human freedom with the mechanist belief that human beings are part of a deterministic universe, whose happenings are governed by physical laws. Hume, to this end, was influenced greatly by the scientific revolution and by in particular Sir Isaac Newton. Hume argued that the dispute about the compatibility of freedom and determinism has been continued over two thousand years by ambiguous terminology. He wrote: \"From this circumstance alone, that a controversy has been long kept on foot ... we may presume that there is some ambiguity in the expression\", and that different disputants use different meanings for the same terms.\n\nHume defines the concept of necessity as \"the uniformity, observable in the operations of nature; where similar objects are constantly conjoined together\", and liberty as \"a power of acting or not acting, according to the determinations of the will\". He then argues that, according to these definitions, not only are the two compatible, but liberty \"requires\" necessity. For if our actions were not necessitated in the above sense, they would \"have so little in connexion with motives, inclinations and circumstances, that one does not follow with a certain degree of uniformity from the other\". But if our actions are not thus connected to the will, then our actions can never be free: they would be matters of \"chance; which is universally allowed to have no existence\". Australian philosopher John Passmore writes that confusion has arisen because \"necessity\" has been taken to mean \"necessary connexion\". Once this has been abandoned, Hume argues that \"liberty and necessity will be found not to be in conflict one with another\".\n\nMoreover, Hume goes on to argue that in order to be held morally responsible, it is required that our behaviour be caused or necessitated, for, as he wrote:\n\nActions are, by their very nature, temporary and perishing; and where they proceed not from some \"cause\" in the character and disposition of the person who performed them, they can neither redound to his honour, if good; nor infamy, if evil.\n\nHume describes the link between causality and our capacity to rationally make a decision from this an inference of the mind. Human beings assess a situation based upon certain predetermined events and from that form a choice. Hume believes that this choice is made spontaneously. Hume calls this form of decision making the liberty of spontaneity.\n\nEducation writer Richard Wright considers that Hume's position rejects a famous moral puzzle attributed to French philosopher Jean Buridan. The Buridan's ass puzzle describes a donkey that is hungry. This donkey has on both sides of him separate bales of hay, which are of equal distances from him. The problem concerns which bale the donkey chooses. Buridan was said to believe that the donkey would die, because he has no autonomy. The donkey is incapable of forming a rational decision as there is no motive to choose one bale of hay over the other. However, human beings are different, because a human who is placed in a position where he is forced to choose one loaf of bread over another will make a decision to take one in lieu of the other. For Buridan, humans have the capacity of autonomy, and he recognises the choice that is ultimately made will be based on chance, as both loaves of bread are exactly the same. However, Wright says that Hume completely rejects this notion, arguing that a human will spontaneously act in such a situation because he is faced with impending death if he fails to do so. Such a decision is not made on the basis of chance, but rather on necessity and spontaneity, given the prior predetermined events leading up to the predicament.\n\nHume's argument is supported by modern-day compatibilists such as R. E. Hobart, a pseudonym of philosopher Dickinson S. Miller. However, P. F. Strawson argued that the issue of whether we hold one another morally responsible does not ultimately depend on the truth or falsity of a metaphysical thesis such as determinism. This is because our so holding one another is a non-rational human sentiment that is not predicated on such theses.\n\nThe \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" states that Hume \"wrote forcefully and incisively on almost every central question in the philosophy of religion.\" His \"various writings concerning problems of religion are among the most important and influential contributions on this topic.\" His writings in this field cover the philosophy, psychology, history, and anthropology of religious thought. All of these aspects were discussed in Hume's 1757 dissertation, \"The Natural History of Religion\". Here he argued that the monotheistic religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam all derive from earlier polytheistic religions. He also suggested that all religious belief \"traces, in the end, to dread of the unknown.\" Hume had also written on religious subjects in the first \"Enquiry\", as well as later in the \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\".\n\nAlthough he wrote a great deal about religion, Hume's personal views are unclear, and there has been much discussion concerning his religious position. Contemporaries considered him to be an atheist, or at least un-Christian, and the Church of Scotland seriously considered bringing charges of infidelity against him. The fact that contemporaries thought that he may have been an atheist is exemplified by a story Hume liked to tell:\n\nThe best theologian he ever met, he used to say, was the old Edinburgh fishwife who, having recognized him as Hume the atheist, refused to pull him out of the bog into which he had fallen until he declared he was a Christian and repeated the Lord's prayer.\n\nHowever, in works such as \"Of Superstition and Enthusiasm\", Hume specifically seems to support the standard religious views of his time and place. This still meant that he could be very critical of the Catholic Church, dismissing it with the standard Protestant accusations of superstition and idolatry, as well as dismissing as idolatry what his compatriots saw as uncivilised beliefs. He also considered extreme Protestant sects, the members of which he called \"enthusiasts\", to be corrupters of religion. By contrast, in his \"The Natural History of Religion\", Hume presented arguments suggesting that polytheism had much to commend it over monotheism.\n\nPhilosopher Paul Russell writes that it is likely that Hume was sceptical about religious belief, but not to the extent of complete atheism. He suggests that perhaps Hume's position is best characterised by the term \"irreligion\", while philosopher David O'Connor argues that Hume's final position was \"weakly deistic\". For O'Connor, Hume's \"position is deeply ironic. This is because, while inclining towards a weak form of deism, he seriously doubts that we can ever find a sufficiently favourable balance of evidence to justify accepting any religious position.\" He adds that Hume \"did not believe in the God of standard theism ... but he did not rule out all concepts of deity\", and that \"ambiguity suited his purposes, and this creates difficulty in definitively pinning down his final position on religion\".\n\nOne of the traditional topics of natural theology is that of the existence of God, and one of the \"a posteriori\" arguments for this is the \"argument from design\" or the teleological argument. The argument is that the existence of God can be proved by the design that is obvious in the complexity of the world. \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" states that this is \"the most popular, because [it is] the most accessible of the theistic arguments ... which identifies evidences of design in nature, inferring from them a divine designer ... The fact that the universe as a whole is a coherent and efficiently functioning system likewise, in this view, indicates a divine intelligence behind it.\"\n\nIn \"An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\", Hume wrote that the design argument seems to depend upon our experience, and its proponents \"always suppose the universe, an effect quite singular and unparalleled, to be the proof of a Deity, a cause no less singular and unparalleled\". Philosopher Louise E. Loeb notes that Hume is saying that only experience and observation can be our guide to making inferences about the conjunction between events. However, according to Hume, \"we observe neither God nor other universes, and hence no conjunction involving them. There is no observed conjunction to ground an inference either to extended objects or to God, as unobserved causes.\"\n\nHume also criticised the argument in his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\" (1779). In this, he suggested that, even if the world is a more or less smoothly functioning system, this may only be a result of the \"chance permutations of particles falling into a temporary or permanent self-sustaining order, which thus has the appearance of design.\"\n\nA century later, the idea of order without design was rendered more plausible by Charles Darwin's discovery that the adaptations of the forms of life are a result of the natural selection of inherited characteristics. For philosopher James D. Madden, it is \"Hume, rivaled only by Darwin, [who] has done the most to undermine in principle our confidence in arguments from design among all figures in the Western intellectual tradition.\"\n\nFinally, Hume discussed a version of the anthropic principle, which is the idea that theories of the universe are constrained by the need to allow for man's existence in it as an observer. Hume has his sceptical mouthpiece Philo suggest that there may have been many worlds, produced by an incompetent designer, whom he called a \"stupid mechanic\". In his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\", Hume wrote:\n\nMany worlds might have been botched and bungled throughout an eternity, ere this system was struck out: much labour lost: many fruitless trials made: and a slow, but continued improvement carried on during infinite ages in the art of world-making.\nAmerican philosopher Daniel Dennett has suggested that this mechanical explanation of teleology, although \"obviously ... an amusing philosophical fantasy\", anticipated the notion of natural selection, the 'continued improvement' being like \"any Darwinian selection algorithm.\"\n\nIn his discussion of miracles, Hume argues that we should not believe that miracles have occurred and that they do not therefore provide us with any reason to think that God exists. In \"An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\" (Section 10), Hume defines a miracle as \"a transgression of a law of nature by a particular volition of the Deity, or by the interposition of some invisible agent\". Hume says that we believe an event that has frequently occurred is likely to occur again, but we also take into account those instances where the event did not occur. Hume wrote:\n\nA wise man [...] considers which side is supported by the greater number of experiments [...] A hundred instances or experiments on one side, and fifty on another, afford a doubtful expectation of any event; though a hundred uniform experiments, with only one that is contradictory, reasonably beget a pretty strong degree of assurance. In all cases, we must balance the opposite experiments [...] and deduct the smaller number from the greater, in order to know the exact force of the superior evidence.\n\nHume discusses the testimony of those who report miracles. He wrote that testimony might be doubted even from some great authority in case the facts themselves are not credible. \"[T]he evidence, resulting from the testimony, admits of a diminution, greater or less, in proportion as the fact is more or less unusual.\"\n\nAlthough Hume leaves open the possibility for miracles to occur and be reported, he offers various arguments against this ever having happened in history: He points out that people often lie, and they have good reasons to lie about miracles occurring either because they believe they are doing so for the benefit of their religion or because of the fame that results. Furthermore, people by nature enjoy relating miracles they have heard without caring for their veracity and thus miracles are easily transmitted even where false. Also, Hume notes that miracles seem to occur mostly in \"ignorant and barbarous nations\" and times, and the reason they do not occur in the civilised societies is such societies are not awed by what they know to be natural events. Finally, the miracles of each religion argue against all other religions and their miracles, and so even if a proportion of all reported miracles across the world fit Hume's requirement for belief, the miracles of each religion make the other less likely.\n\nHume was extremely pleased with his argument against miracles in his \"Enquiry\". He states \"I flatter myself, that I have discovered an argument of a like nature, which, if just, will, with the wise and learned, be an everlasting check to all kinds of superstitious delusion, and consequently, will be useful as long as the world endures.\" Thus, Hume's argument against miracles had a more abstract basis founded upon the scrutiny, not just primarily of miracles, but of all forms of belief systems. It is a common sense notion of veracity based upon epistemological evidence, and founded on a principle of rationality, proportionality and reasonability.\n\nThe criterion for assessing a belief system for Hume is based on the balance of probability whether something is more likely than not to have occurred. Since the weight of empirical experience contradicts the notion for the existence of miracles, such accounts should be treated with scepticism. Further, the myriad of accounts of miracles contradict one another, as some people who receive miracles will aim to prove the authority of Jesus, whereas others will aim to prove the authority of Muhammad or some other religious prophet or deity. These various differing accounts weaken the overall evidential power of miracles.\n\nDespite all this, Hume observes that belief in miracles is popular, and that \"The gazing populace [...] receive greedily, without examination, whatever soothes superstition, and promotes wonder.\"\n\nCritics have argued that Hume's position assumes the character of miracles and natural laws prior to any specific examination of miracle claims, thus it amounts to a subtle form of begging the question. To assume that testimony is a homogeneous reference group seems unwise- to compare private miracles with public miracles, unintellectual observers with intellectual observers and those who have little to gain and much to lose with those with much to gain and little to lose is not convincing to many. Indeed, many have argued that miracles not only do not contradict the laws of nature, but require the laws of nature to be intelligible as miraculous, and thus subverting the law of nature. For example, William Adams remarks that \"there must be an ordinary course of nature before anything can be extraordinary. There must be a stream before anything can be interrupted\". They have also noted that it requires an appeal to inductive inference, as none have observed every part of nature nor examined every possible miracle claim, for instance those in the future. This, in Hume's philosophy, was especially problematic.\n\nLittle appreciated is the voluminous literature either foreshadowing Hume, in the likes of Thomas Sherlock or directly responding to and engaging with Hume- from William Paley, William Adams, John Douglas, John Leland and George Campbell, among others. Of Campbell, it is rumoured that, having read Campbell's Dissertation, Hume remarked that \"the Scotch theologue had beaten him\".\n\nHume's main argument concerning miracles is that miracles by definition are singular events that differ from the established laws of nature. Such natural laws are codified as a result of past experiences. Therefore, a miracle is a violation of all prior experience and thus incapable on this basis of reasonable belief. However, the probability that something has occurred in contradiction of all past experience should always be judged to be less than the probability that either ones senses have deceived one, or the person recounting the miraculous occurrence is lying or mistaken. Hume would say, all of which he had past experience of. For Hume, this refusal to grant credence does not guarantee correctness. He offers the example of an Indian Prince, who, having grown up in a hot country, refuses to believe that water has frozen. By Hume's lights, this refusal is not wrong and the Prince \"reasoned justly\"; it is presumably only when he has had extensive experience of the freezing of water that he has warrant to believe that the event could occur.\n\nSo for Hume, either the miraculous event will become a recurrent event or else it will never be rational to believe it occurred. The connection to religious belief is left unexplained throughout, except for the close of his discussion where Hume notes the reliance of Christianity upon testimony of miraculous occurrences. He makes an ironic remark that anyone who \"is moved by faith to assent\" to revealed testimony \"is conscious of a continued miracle in his own person, which subverts all principles of his understanding, and gives him a determination to believe what is most contrary to custom and experience.\" Hume writes that \"All the testimony which ever was really given for any miracle, or ever will be given, is a subject of derision.\"\n\nFrom 1754 to 1762 Hume published \"The History of England\", a 6-volume work, which extends, says its subtitle, \"From the Invasion of Julius Caesar to the Revolution in 1688\". Inspired by Voltaire's sense of the breadth of history, Hume widened the focus of the field away from merely kings, parliaments, and armies, to literature and science as well. He argued that the quest for liberty was the highest standard for judging the past, and concluded that after considerable fluctuation, England at the time of his writing had achieved \"the most entire system of liberty that was ever known amongst mankind\". It \"must be regarded as an event of cultural importance. In its own day, moreover, it was an innovation, soaring high above its very few predecessors.\"\n\nHume's coverage of the political upheavals of the 17th century relied in large part on the Earl of Clarendon's \"History of the Rebellion and Civil Wars in England\" (1646–69). Generally, Hume took a moderate royalist position and considered revolution unnecessary to achieve necessary reform. Hume was considered a Tory historian, and emphasised religious differences more than constitutional issues. Laird Okie explains that \"Hume preached the virtues of political moderation, but ... it was moderation with an anti-Whig, pro-royalist coloring.\" For \"Hume shared the ... Tory belief that the Stuarts were no more high-handed than their Tudor predecessors\". \"Even though Hume wrote with an anti-Whig animus, it is, paradoxically, correct to regard the \"History\" as an establishment work, one which implicitly endorsed the ruling oligarchy\".\nHistorians have debated whether Hume posited a universal unchanging human nature, or allowed for evolution and development.\n\nRobert Roth argues that Hume's histories display his biases against Presbyterians and Puritans. Roth says his anti-Whig pro-monarchy position diminished the influence of his work, and that his emphasis on politics and religion led to a neglect of social and economic history.\n\nHume was an early cultural historian of science. His short biographies of leading scientists explored the process of scientific change. He developed new ways of seeing scientists in the context of their times by looking at how they interacted with society and each other. He covers over forty scientists, with special attention paid to Francis Bacon, Robert Boyle, and Isaac Newton. Hume particularly praised William Harvey, writing about his treatise of the circulation of the blood: \"Harvey is entitled to the glory of having made, by reasoning alone, without any mixture of accident, a capital discovery in one of the most important branches of science\".\n\nThe \"History\" became a best-seller and made Hume a wealthy man who no longer had to take up salaried work for others. It was influential for nearly a century, despite competition from imitations by Smollett (1757), Goldsmith (1771) and others. By 1894, there were at least 50 editions as well as abridgements for students, and illustrated pocket editions, probably produced specifically for women.\n\nIt is difficult to categorise Hume's political affiliations. His writings contain elements that are, in modern terms, both conservative and liberal, although these terms are anachronistic. Thomas Jefferson banned the \"History\" from University of Virginia, feeling that it had \"spread universal toryism over the land\". By comparison, Samuel Johnson thought Hume \"a Tory by chance ... for he has no principle. If he is anything, he is a Hobbist\", a follower of Thomas Hobbes. A major concern of Hume's political philosophy is the importance of the rule of law. He also stresses throughout his political essays the importance of moderation in politics: public spirit and regard to the community.\n\nThis outlook needs to be seen within the historical context of 18th-century Scotland. Here, the legacy of religious civil war, combined with the relatively recent memory of the 1715 and 1745 Jacobite risings, fostered in a historian such as Hume a distaste for enthusiasm and factionalism. These appeared to threaten the fragile and nascent political and social stability of a country that was deeply politically and religiously divided. Hume thought that society is best governed by a general and impartial system of laws; he is less concerned about the form of government that administers these laws, so long as it does so fairly. However, he does write that a republic must produce laws, while \"monarchy, when absolute, contains even something repugnant to law.\"\n\nHume expressed suspicion of attempts to reform society in ways that departed from long-established custom, and he counselled peoples not to resist their governments except in cases of the most egregious tyranny. However, he resisted aligning himself with either of Britain's two political parties, the Whigs and the Tories. Hume wrote:\n\nMy views of \"things\" are more conformable to Whig principles; my representations of \"persons\" to Tory prejudices.\n\nCanadian philosopher Neil McArthur writes that Hume believed that we should try to balance our demands for liberty with the need for strong authority, without sacrificing either. McArthur characterises Hume as a \"precautionary conservative\", whose actions would have been \"determined by prudential concerns about the consequences of change, which often demand we ignore our own principles about what is ideal or even legitimate.\" Hume supported the liberty of the press, and was sympathetic to democracy, when suitably constrained. American historian Douglass Adair has argued that Hume was a major inspiration for James Madison's writings, and the essay \"Federalist No. 10\" in particular.\n\nHume offered his view on the best type of society in an essay titled \"Idea of a Perfect Commonwealth\", which lays out what he thought was the best form of government. He hoped that, \"in some future age, an opportunity might be afforded of reducing the theory to practice, either by a dissolution of some old government, or by the combination of men to form a new one, in some distant part of the world\". He defended a strict separation of powers, decentralisation, extending the franchise to anyone who held property of value and limiting the power of the clergy. The system of the Swiss militia was proposed as the best form of protection. Elections were to take place on an annual basis and representatives were to be unpaid. Political philosophers Leo Strauss and Joseph Cropsey, writing of Hume's thoughts about \"the wise statesman\", note that he \"will bear a reverence to what carries the marks of age\". Also, if he wishes to improve a constitution, his innovations will take account of the \"ancient fabric\", in order not to disturb society.\n\nIn the political analysis of philosopher George Sabine, the scepticism of Hume extended to the doctrine of government by consent. He notes that \"allegiance is a habit enforced by education and consequently as much a part of human nature as any other motive.\"\n\nIn the 1770s, Hume was critical of British policies toward the American colonies and advocated for American independence. He wrote in 1771 that \"our union with America... in the nature of things, cannot long subsist\".\n\nHume noted his views as economist in his \"Political Discourses\", which were incorporated in \"Essays and Treatises\" as Part II of \"Essays, Moral and Political\". To what extent he was influenced by Adam Smith is difficult to stress, however both of them had similar principles supported from historical events. At the same time Hume did not demonstrate concrete system of economic theory which could be observed in Smith's Wealth of Nations. However, he introduced several new ideas around which the “classical economics” of the 18th century was built. Through his discussions on politics, Hume developed many ideas that are prevalent in the field of economics. This includes ideas on private property, inflation, and foreign trade. Referring to his essay \"Of the Balance of Trade\", economist Paul Krugman has remarked that \"David Hume created what I consider the first true economic model.\"\n\nIn contrast to Locke, Hume believes that private property is not a natural right. Hume argues it is justified, because resources are limited. Private property would be an unjustified, \"idle ceremonial\", if all goods were unlimited and available freely. Hume also believed in an unequal distribution of property, because perfect equality would destroy the ideas of thrift and industry. Perfect equality would thus lead to impoverishment.\n\nDue to Hume's vast influence on contemporary philosophy, a large number of approaches in contemporary philosophy and cognitive science are today called \"Humean.\"\n\nAttention to Hume's philosophical works grew after the German philosopher Immanuel Kant, in his \"Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics\" (1783), credited Hume with awakening him from his \"dogmatic slumber\".\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer, \"there is more to be learned from each page of David Hume than from the collected philosophical works of Hegel, Herbart and Schleiermacher taken together.\"\n\nA. J. Ayer, while introducing his classic exposition of logical positivism in 1936, claimed: \"The views which are put forward in this treatise derive from ... doctrines ... which are themselves the logical outcome of the empiricism of Berkeley and David Hume.\" Albert Einstein, in 1915, wrote that he was inspired by Hume's positivism when formulating his theory of special relativity.\n\nHume's problem of induction was also of fundamental importance to the philosophy of Karl Popper. In his autobiography, \"Unended Quest\", he wrote: \"Knowledge ... is \"objective\"; and it is hypothetical or conjectural. This way of looking at the problem made it possible for me to reformulate Hume's \"problem of induction\"\". This insight resulted in Popper's major work \"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\". Also, in his \"Conjectures and Refutations\", he wrote:\n\nI approached the problem of induction through Hume. Hume, I felt, was perfectly right in pointing out that induction cannot be logically justified.\nThe writings of Scottish philosopher and contemporary of Hume, Thomas Reid, were often criticisms of Hume's scepticism. Reid formulated his common sense philosophy in part as a reaction against Hume's views.\n\nHume influenced and was influenced by the Christian philosopher Joseph Butler. Hume was impressed by Butler's way of thinking about religion, and Butler may well have been influenced by Hume's writings.\n\nHume's rationalism in religious subjects influenced, via German-Scottish theologian Johann Joachim Spalding, the German neology school and rational theology, and contributed to the transformation of German theology in the age of enlightenment. Hume pioneered a comparative history of religion, tried to explain various rites and traditions as being based on deception and challenged various aspects of rational and natural theology, such as the argument from design.\n\nDanish theologian and philosopher Søren Kierkegaard adopted \"Hume's suggestion that the role of reason is not to make us wise but to reveal our ignorance.\" However, Kierkegaard took this as a reason for the necessity of religious faith, or fideism. The \"fact that Christianity is contrary to reason ... is the necessary precondition for true faith.\" Political theorist Isaiah Berlin, for example, has pointed out the similarities between the arguments of Hume and Kierkegaard against rational theology. Berlin also writes about Hume's influence on what Berlin calls the counter-enlightenment, and German anti-rationalism.\n\nAccording to philosopher Jerry Fodor, Hume's \"Treatise\" is \"the founding document of cognitive science\".\n\nHume engaged with contemporary intellectual luminaries such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau, James Boswell, and Adam Smith (who acknowledged Hume's influence on his economics and political philosophy).\n\nIsaiah Berlin once said of Hume that \"No man has influenced the history of philosophy to a deeper or more disturbing degree.\"\n\nThe \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" writes that Hume is \"[g]enerally regarded as one of the most important philosophers to write in English.\"\n\nHis nephew and namesake, David Hume of Ninewells (1757–1838), was a co-founder of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1783. He was a Professor of Scots Law at Edinburgh University and rose to be Principal Clerk Of Session in the Scottish High court and Baron of the Exchequer. He is buried with his uncle in Old Calton Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34049335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34049335", "title": "G.B.J. Hiltermann", "text": "G.B.J. Hiltermann\n\nGustavo Bernardo José Hiltermann (born 1 May 1914 in Buenos Aires, died 15 July 2000 in Amsterdam) was a Dutch journalist, political commentator, publisher and historian.\n\nHiltermann was born from Dutch parents in Argentina. As told by himself his parents wanted to name him \"Gustaaf Bernard Jozef\" but Argentinian law only allowed Spanish given names. Hilterman never accepted it when people referred to him by his full name and he was often called \"Geebeejee\", after the abbreviation of his given names.\n\nHe worked for some time for De Telegraaf. In 1942 he resigned from the newspaper because the Germans forced him to publish an antisemitic article. Afterwards he became one of the founders of Elsevier. Between 1952 and 1965 he was owner and director of the Haagse Post of which his wife Sylvia Brandts Buys was the editor. Later he was the head editor of the sixth edition of the Winkler Prins Encyclopedie.\n\nHe became nationally famous with his weekly commentaries on international politics in the AVRO radio show item \"De toestand in de wereld, door mr. G.B.J. Hiltermann\" () which was aired from October 1956 till 22 November 1999, which were noted for his pro-western viewpoints.\n"}
{"id": "5208672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208672", "title": "Harold T. Wilkins", "text": "Harold T. Wilkins\n\nHarold Tom Wilkins (June 1891 – 1960) was a British journalist known for his books on treasure hunting and pseudohistoric claims about Atlantis and South America.\n\nBrought up in Gloucester, the son of Albert Wilkins, an engine driver, and his wife Leah, Wilkins read English and history at Cambridge University and began a career in journalism. In the First World War he was imprisoned as a conscientious objector. He regularly reported on the early television experiments of John L. Baird, during the years 1926—1932.\n\nIn 1931, Wilkins wrote a detailed description on the mystery of the Mary Celeste for the \"Quarterly Review\". It was later reprinted in his book \"Mysteries Solved and Unsolved\". In the 1950s he published books claiming that UFOs are hostile. Wilkins also wrote about White Gods, writing that a vanished white race had occupied the whole of South America in ancient times. Wilkins was also an influence on the hollow earth theory, as he located the descendants of Atlantis to underground tunnels in South America, especially in Brazil; he also discussed underground tunnels in other locations such as the Andes.\n\nWilkins, in his book \"Strange Mysteries of Time and Space\", wrote about the Mary Celeste, disappearances at Glastenbury Mountain, medieval mysteries, disappearing aircraft, ships, and people, including Ambrose Bierce and the fictitious Andrew Lang disappearance, claimed by him to be factual.\n\nThe anthropologist John Alden Mason has described Wilkins's research as pseudohistory and noted that most of his statements capable of verification turned out to be incorrect.\n\nA review in \"Western Folklore\" claimed that Wilkins's \"Mysteries of Ancient South America\" reads like a science fiction book owing to its pseudohistoric claims.\n\nHis \"Secret Cities of Old South America\" was described by The Explorers Club in a review as a \"crank book, basing most of its fantastic conclusions on the assumption that Atlantis and Mu did exist... Despite a long bibliography there is little dependable documentation in the book. It is vaporous hearsay.\"\n\nJason Colavito has noted that Wilkins was a plagiarist. In his book \"Secret Cities of Old South America\" he had taken material from Madame Blavatsky's \"Secret Doctrine\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364326", "title": "Historicity of Jesus", "text": "Historicity of Jesus\n\nThe historicity of Jesus concerns the degree to which sources show Jesus of Nazareth existed as a historical figure. A second issue is closely tied to historical research practices and methodologies for analyzing the reliability of primary sources and other historical evidence.\n\nVirtually all New Testament scholars and Near East historians, applying the standard criteria of historical investigation, find that the historicity of Jesus is effectively certain although they differ about the beliefs and teachings of Jesus as well as the accuracy of the details of his life that have been described in the gospels. While scholars have criticized Jesus scholarship for religious bias and lack of methodological soundness, with very few exceptions such critics generally do support the historicity of Jesus and reject the Christ myth theory that Jesus never existed.\n\nThe historicity of Jesus is distinct from the related study of the historical Jesus, which refers to scholarly reconstructions of the life of Jesus, based primarily on critical analysis of the gospel texts. Historicity, by contrast, as a subject of study different from history proper, is concerned with two different fundamental issues. Firstly, it is concerned with the systemic processes of social change, and, secondly, the social context and intentions of the authors of the sources by which we can establish the truth of historical events, separating mythic accounts from factual circumstances.\n\nAll extant sources that mention Jesus were written after his death. The Christian Testament represents sources that have become canonical for Christianity, and there are many apocryphal texts that are examples of the wide variety of writings in the first centuries AD that are related to Jesus. Many scholars have questioned the authenticity and reliability of these sources, and few events mentioned in the gospels are universally accepted.\n\nThe seven Pauline epistles considered by scholarly consensus to be genuine are dated to between AD 50 and 60 (\"i.e.\", approximately twenty to thirty years after the generally accepted time period for the death of Jesus) and are the earliest surviving Christian texts that may include information about Jesus. Although Paul provides relatively little biographical information about Jesus and admits that he never knew Jesus personally, he does make it clear that he considers Jesus to have been a real person and a Jew. Moreover, he claims to have met with James, the brother of Jesus.\n\nNon-Christian sources used to study and establish the historicity of Jesus include the Jewish historian Josephus and Roman historian Tacitus. These sources are compared to Christian sources, such as the Pauline letters and synoptic gospels, and are usually independent of each other; that is, the Jewish sources do not draw upon the Roman sources. Similarities and differences between these sources are used in the authentication process.\n\nIn Books and \" of Antiquities of the Jews\", written around AD 93 to 94, Jewish historian Josephus twice refers to the biblical Jesus. The general scholarly view holds that the longer passage, known as the Testimonium Flavianum, most likely consists of an authentic nucleus that was subjected to later Christian interpolation or forgery. On the other hand, Louis H. Feldman states that \"few have doubted the genuineness\" of the reference found in to \"the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, whose name was James\".\n\nThe Roman historian Tacitus, in his \"Annals\" (written \"ca.\" AD 115), , describes Nero's scapegoating of the Christians following the Fire of Rome. He writes that founder of the sect was named Christus (the Christian title for Jesus); that he was executed under Pontius Pilate; and that the movement, initially checked, broke out again in Judea and even in Rome itself. Some scholars question the historical value of the passage on various grounds.\n\nHistorian Michael Grant asserts that if conventional standards of historical textual criticism are applied to the New Testament, \"we can no more reject Jesus' existence than we can reject the existence of a mass of pagan personages whose reality as historical figures is never questioned.\"\n\nThe historical reliability of the gospels refers to the reliability and historic character of the four New Testament gospels as historical documents. Little in the four canonical gospels is considered to be historically reliable.\n\nMost scholars of antiquity agree that Jesus existed, but scholars differ on the historicity of specific episodes described in the biblical accounts of Jesus. The only two events subject to \"almost universal assent\" are that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist and that, between one and three years later, he was crucified by the order of the Roman Prefect Pontius Pilate. Elements whose historical authenticity are disputed include the two accounts of the nativity of Jesus, the miraculous events including turning water into wine, walking on water and the resurrection, and certain details about the crucifixion.\n\nThe Synoptic Gospels are the primary sources of historical information about Jesus and of the religious movement he founded. These religious gospels–the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of Mark, and the Gospel of Luke–recount the life, ministry, crucifixion and resurrection of a Jew named Jesus who spoke Aramaic. There are different hypotheses regarding the origin of the texts because the gospels of the New Testament were written in Greek for Greek-speaking communities, and were later translated into Syriac, Latin, and Coptic.\nThe fourth gospel, the Gospel of John, differs greatly from the Synoptic Gospels. Historians often study the historical reliability of the Acts of the Apostles when studying the reliability of the gospels, as the Book of Acts was seemingly written by the same author as the Gospel of Luke.\n\nHistorians subject the gospels to critical analysis by differentiating authentic, reliable information from possible inventions, exaggerations, and alterations. Since there are more textual variants in the New Testament (200–400 thousand) than it has letters (c. 140 thousand), scholars use textual criticism to determine which gospel variants could theoretically be taken as 'original'. To answer this question, scholars have to ask who wrote the gospels, when they wrote them, what was their objective in writing them, what sources the authors used, how reliable these sources were, and how far removed in time the sources were from the stories they narrate, or if they were altered later. Scholars may also look into the internal evidence of the documents, to see if, for example, a document has misquoted texts from the Hebrew Tanakh, has made incorrect claims about geography, if the author appears to have hidden information, or if the author has fabricated a prophecy. Finally, scholars turn to external sources, including the testimony of early church leaders, to writers outside the church, primarily Jewish and Greco-Roman historians, who would have been more likely to have criticized the church, and to archaeological evidence.\n\nThere is widespread disagreement among scholars on the details of the life of Jesus mentioned in the gospel narratives, and on the meaning of his teachings, and the only two events subject to \"almost universal assent\" are that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist and was crucified by the order of the Roman Prefect Pontius Pilate.\n\nAccording to New Testament scholar James Dunn, nearly all modern scholars consider the baptism of Jesus and his crucifixion to be historically certain. He states that these \"two facts in the life of Jesus command almost universal assent\" and \"rank so high on the 'almost impossible to doubt or deny' scale of historical 'facts' they are obvious starting points for an attempt to clarify the what and why of Jesus' mission.\" John P. Meier views the crucifixion of Jesus as historical fact and states that based on the \"criterion of embarrassment\" Christians would not have invented the painful death of their leader.\nThe criterion of embarrassment is also used to argue in favor of the historicity of the baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as it is a story which the early Christian Church would have never wanted to invent. Based on this criterion, given that John baptised for the remission of sins, and Jesus was viewed as without sin, the invention of this story would have served no purpose, and would have been an embarrassment given that it positioned John above Jesus.\n\nAmy-Jill Levine has summarized the situation by stating that \"there is a consensus of sorts on the basic outline of Jesus' life\" in that most scholars agree that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist, and over a period of one to three years debated Jewish authorities on the subject of God, gathered followers, and was crucified by Roman prefect Pontius Pilate who officiated 26–36 AD. There is much in dispute as to his previous life, childhood, family and place of residence, of which the canonical gospels are almost completely silent.\n\nScholars attribute varying levels of certainty to other episodes. Some assume that there are eight elements about Jesus and his followers that can be viewed as historical facts, namely:\n\nScholarly agreement on this extended list is not universal.\n\nThe Mishnah ( 200) may refer to Jesus and reflect the early Jewish traditions of portraying Jesus as a sorcerer or magician. Other references to Jesus and his execution exist in the Talmud, but they aim to discredit his actions, not deny his existence.\n\nSince the 18th century, three separate scholarly quests for the historical Jesus have taken place, each with distinct characteristics and based on different research criteria, which were often developed during that phase. The portraits of Jesus that have been constructed in these processes have often differed from each other, and from the dogmatic image portrayed in the gospel accounts.\nCurrently modern scholarly research on the historical Jesus focuses on what is historically probable, or plausible about Jesus.\n\nThe mainstream profiles in the third quest may be grouped together based on their primary theme as \"apocalyptic prophet\", \"charismatic healer\", \"Cynic philosopher\", \"Jewish Messiah\" and \"prophet of social change\", but there is little scholarly agreement on a single portrait, or the methods needed to construct it. There are, however, overlapping attributes among the portraits, and scholars who differ on some attributes may agree on others.\n\nWhile there is widespread scholarly agreement on the existence of Jesus, and a basic consensus on the general outline of his life, the portraits of Jesus constructed in the quests have often differed from each other, and from the image portrayed in the gospel accounts. There are overlapping attributes among the portraits, and while pairs of scholars may agree on some attributes, those same scholars may differ on other attributes, and there is no single portrait of the historical Jesus that satisfies most scholars.\n\nNearly all modern scholars of antiquity agree that Jesus existed and most biblical scholars and classical historians see the theories of his non-existence as effectively refuted. There is no evidence today that the existence of Jesus was ever denied in antiquity by those who opposed Christianity. Geoffrey Blainey notes that \"a few scholars argue that Jesus... did not even exist,\" and that they \"rightly point out that contemporary references to him were extremely rare.\" Bart Ehrman states \"Jesus is not mentioned in any Roman sources of his day\", but explains that this is not at all surprising, since the vast majority of historical figures from antiquity are not mentioned in contemporary sources, and further states that the sources written after Jesus's death provide ample evidence to support his existence as a person. Richard Carrier and Raphael Lataster assert that there is no independent evidence of Jesus’s existence outside the New Testament.\n\nCertain scholars, particularly in Europe, have recently made the claim that while there are a number of plausible Jesuses that could have existed, there can be no certainty as to which Jesus was the biblical Jesus, and that there should also be more scholarly research and debate on this topic.\n\nThe Christ myth theory is \"the view that the person known as Jesus of Nazareth had no historical existence.\"\n\nIn modern scholarship, the Christ myth theory is a fringe theory and finds virtually no support from scholars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2079818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079818", "title": "IWar", "text": "IWar\n\niWar is the term used by NATO to describe a form of Internet-based warfare.\n\niWar is distinct in that, information warfare pertains to issues of intelligence. Whereas cyber-warfare and cyber-terrorism, pertain to issues of extelligence. These refer to degrees of sensitivity in military and infrastructure assets, battlefield communications and satellite tactical assessments. iWar refers to attacks carried out over the Internet, that target specific assets within Internet superstructure, for example: websites that provide access to online services.\n\niWar has an example in having been conducted by denial-of-service attacks, using high volume bombardment during information requests, bottlenecking Internet based computer networking.\n\nThe two trends of increasing vulnerability over the Internet and ease of attack make conflagration of iWar probable.\n\nThe 2008 South Ossetia war heralded the arrival of iWar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9111593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9111593", "title": "Ikshvaku dynasty", "text": "Ikshvaku dynasty\n\nThe Ikshvaku dynasty, in Puranic literature, was a dynasty founded by the legendary king Ikshvaku. Ikshvaku, literally means \"sugarcane\". The dynasty is also known as (the Solar dynasty). Lord Rama belonged to the Ikshavaku dynasty. Twenty-two out of the twenty-four Jain Tirthankara belonged to this dynasty. Rishabha is present in both Hindu as well as Jain mythology. Both refers to the same person. According to the Buddhist texts, Prince Siddhartha belonged to this dynasty.\n\nThe important personalities belonging to this royal house are Mandhatri , Muchukunda , Ambarisha , Bharata Chakravartin, Bahubali, Harishchandra, Dilīpa, Sagara, Raghu, Rama and Pasenadi. Although, both the Hindu Puranas and the Buddhist texts include Shuddodhana, Gautama Buddha and Rahula in their accounts of the Ikshvaku dynasty, but according to the Buddhist texts, Mahasammata, an ancestor of Ikshvaku was the founder of this dynasty, who was elected by the people as the first king of the present era. According to the Puranas, supreme preceptor of the Ikshvaku dynasty was sage Vashishta.\n\nIn Hinduism, Ikshvaku, is the grandson of Vivasvan or Surya and son of Vaivasvata Manu. They ruled from the Kosala Kingdom, today known as Awadh in the state of Uttar Pradesh along the banks of river Sarayu with saketa, Ayodhya today as their capital. Ikshvaku is the first king who executed the Manusmrti or religious rules of Hindu living which were composed by his father Manu. Ikshvaku, ruled as Monarch at the beginning of the Satya Yuga or First yuga, had hundred sons. His estates descended to his eldest son Vikukshi.\n\nThe lists of kings of or dynasty are found in the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Harivamsha and the Puranas. The Raghuvamsha of Kalidasa also mentions the names of the kings of this dynasty.\n\nThe genealogy of the Ikshvaku dynasty to Rama is mentioned in the Ramayana in two lists . The only difference between the two lists is that, Kukshi is mentioned only in the second list . In the first list, Vikukshi is mentioned as the son of Ikshavaku. The descendants of Vikukshi are known as Vikauwa. \n\n\nThe Puranas provide a genealogical list from Kusha to Brihadbala, who was killed by Abhimanyu in the Mahabharata war. This list is corroborated by the Raghuvamsha till Agnivarna:\n\nThe Puranas also provide the list of the kings from Brihadbala to the last ruler Sumitra. But these lists mention Shakya as an individual, and incorporate the names of Shakya, Shuddodhana, Siddhartha (Gautama Buddha) and Rahula between Sanjaya and Prasenajit. The names of the kings are:\n\n117 Brihatkshaya (or Bruhadrunam)\n\n118 Urukriya (or Gurukshep)\n\n119 Vatsavyuha\n\n120 Prativyoma\n\n121 Bhaanu\n\n122 Divakara (or Divak)\n\n123 Veer Sahadeva\n\n124 Brihadashva-2\n\n125 Bhanuratha (or Bhanumaan)\n\n126 Pratitashva\n\n127 Supratika\n\n128 Marudeva\n\n129 Sunakshatra\n\n130 Pushkara (or Kinnara)\n\n131 Antariksha\n\n132 Suvarna (or Sutapaa)\n\n133 Sumitra (or Amitrajit)\n\n134 Bruhadaraaj (Okkaka)\n\n135 Barhi (Okkamukha)\n\n136 Kritanjaya (Sivisamjaya)\n\n137 Ranajjaya (Sihassara)\n\n138 Sanjaya (Mahakoshala or Jayasena)\n\n139 Shakya (Sihahanu)\n\n140 Śuddhodana (ruler of Shakya Republic of Kapilavastu)\n\n141 Siddhartha (or Gautama Buddha) \n\n142 Rāhula, the only son of Gautam Buddha\n\n143 Prasenajit (Born when Siddhartha was of age 27 years)\n\n144 Kshudraka (or Kuntala)\n\n145 Ranaka (or Kulaka)\n\n146 Suratha\n\n147 Sumitra\n\nKing Sumitra was Last ruler of Ikshvakuvansh/Suryavansha. He was defeated and driven out from Ayodhya.\n\nThe Buddhist text, Mahavamsa (II, 1-24) traces the origin of the Shakyas to king Okkaka (Pali equivalent to Sanskrit Ikshvaku) and gives their genealogy from Mahasammata, an ancestor of Okkaka. This list comprises the names of a number of prominent kings of the Ikshvaku dynasty, namely, Mandhata and Sagara. The genealogy according to the Mahavamsa is as follows:\n\nThe Ikshvaku dynasty has a significant place in Jainism, as twenty-two Tirthankaras\" were born in this dynasty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9324466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9324466", "title": "Independent Jewish Voices", "text": "Independent Jewish Voices\n\nIndependent Jewish Voices (IJV) is an organization launched on 5 February 2007 by 150 prominent British Jews such as Nobel laureate Harold Pinter, historian Eric Hobsbawm, lawyer Sir Geoffrey Bindman, Lady Ellen Dahrendorf, film director Mike Leigh, and actors Stephen Fry and Zoë Wanamaker. The organization is reportedly \"born out of a frustration with the widespread misconception that the Jews of this country speak with one voice—and that this voice supports the Israeli government's policies\". IJV stated it was founded \"to represent British Jews...in response to a perceived pro-Israeli bias in existing Jewish bodies in the UK\", and, according to Hobsbawn, \"as a counter-balance to the uncritical support for Israeli policies by established bodies such as the Board of Deputies of British Jews\".\n\nThe group's Declaration states:\nIts signatories attest to being guided by five principles presented in the Declaration:\nSignatories to the Declaration state their shared beliefs that \"the interests of an occupying power should not count for more than the human rights of an occupied people\" and that \"the Palestinian inhabitants of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip face appalling living conditions with desperately little hope for the future\"; they pledge their \"support for a properly negotiated peace between the Israeli and Palestinian people and oppose any attempt by the Israeli government to impose its own solutions on the Palestinians\".\n\nSignatories include Lisa Appignanesi, Sir Geoffrey Bindman, Gerald Cohen, Stanley Cohen, Lady Ellen Dahrendorf, Jenny Diski, Nicole Farhi, Stephen Fry, Alexander Goehr, Eric Hobsbawm, Ann Jungman, Anne Karpf, Beeban Kidron, Brian Klug, David Lan, Mike Leigh, Steven Lukes, Shula Marks, Mike Marqusee, Adam Phillips, Harold Pinter, Nigel Rodley, Jacqueline Rose, Leon Rosselson, Andrew Samuels, Richard Sennett, Avi Shlaim, Gillian Slovo, Shawn Slovo, Janet Suzman, Zoë Wanamaker, Sami Zubaida and David Feldman.\n\nAccording to Amiram Barkat, in his article \"U.K. Board of Deputies Rejects Criticism from New Jewish Group\", published in \"Haaretz\", a spokesperson for the Board of Deputies has responded to the IJV's launching: \"If Brian Klug and the other signatories to IJV chose to engage with the institutions of the Jewish community, rather than shouting from the sidelines, they may find that most Jews disagree with much of what they say\".\n\nIn early 2008, 250 members of Independent Jewish Voices signed a statement entitled \"End the siege of Gaza!\", which was printed as a full-page advertisement in \"The Times\". The statement called on Israel to lift its economic blockade while condemning both collective punishment against the people of Gaza and Palestinian rocket attacks into Israel, and encouraging both sides to observe a cease-fire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2542609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2542609", "title": "International Congress Calendar", "text": "International Congress Calendar\n\nThe International Congress Calendar is a calendar of events organized by non-profit international organizations, mainly those organizations which are included in the Yearbook of International Organizations. It has been published since 1960 by the Union of International Associations (UIA) and includes over 425,000 meetings. Over 15,000 new meetings are included every year.\n\nIt is one of the most comprehensive sources of information on future international meetings organized or sponsored by international organizations. All information is provided, or confirmed, by the organizations themselves.\n\nThe Calendar is published in print and online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20344829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20344829", "title": "Karl Ferdinand Ignatius", "text": "Karl Ferdinand Ignatius\n\nIgnatius was the son of vice-pastor Johan Ferdinand Ignatius and Sofia Fleming. He graduated secondary school in 1855 and enrolled in the Imperial Alexander University in Helsinki, gaining his undergraduate and graduate degrees in 1860, a Licenciate degree in 1862 and finally his Ph.D in 1864. Ignatius worked as a civil servant in the Finnish Main Office of Statistics from 1865 to 1868 and then as the head of the office from 1868 to 1885. He was the head of the chamber committee of the Senate of Finland during 1885–1900 and 1905–1908. Ignatius worked also as a Docent of Nordic History and Statistics from 1865 to 1870 and as the Curator of the Western Finland's Student Nation (combination of Turkulainen and Satakuntalainen Osakunta during 1846–1904) from 1868 to 1870.\n\nIgnatius took part in the Diet of Finland as a member of the burghers estate in 1877–1885 and 1904–1905. He was also a member of the Helsinki City Council during 1875–1878 and 1903–1905. Ignatius was among of the founders of both the Finnish Historical and Geographical Societies, was a committee member of the Society for Culture and Education (\"Kansanvalistusseura\") during 1873–1887 and was the Chairman of the Finnish Antiquarian Society in 1875–1885.\n\nIgnatius married Amanda Kristina Bergman (1841–1921) in 1863. The couple had five daughters and five sons, the most famous of them being the President of the Court of Appeals Kaarlo Yrjö Benedictus Ignatius (1869–1942), Lieutenant General Hannes Ignatius (1871–1941) and Provincial Governor Gustaf Ignatius (1873–1949).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2049932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2049932", "title": "Mahogany Ship", "text": "Mahogany Ship\n\nThe Mahogany Ship refers to a putative early Australian shipwreck that is believed by some to lie beneath the sand in the Armstrong Bay area, approximately 3 to 6 kilometres west of Warrnambool in southwest Victoria, Australia. In many modern accounts it is described as a Spanish or Portuguese caravel after the wreck was associated with the theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia by Kenneth McIntyre in his 1977 book, \"The Secret Discovery of Australia.\" The most recent research has questioned this theory and provided other explanations.\n\nThree Mahogany Ship Symposia have been conducted in nearby Warrnambool: in 1981, 1987 and 2005, attracting significant public and academic interest and the contributions of Manning Clark, Barry Jones, Kenneth McIntyre, Lawrence Fitzgerald, Ian McKiggan, Bill Richardson, Edmund Gill, Jack Loney and many others.\n\nWhile there is no conclusive evidence such a wreck exists today, nineteenth-century accounts of the relic persist both in popular folklore and in publications of varying academic rigour. In the 1980s and 1990s, writers Jack Loney and Ian McKiggan documented the accounts of a number of purported nineteenth century eyewitnesses to the wreck. While these were of varying degrees of detail, they indicate a strong local tradition about the wreck in the area. Commenting on the surge of interest in the wreck that appeared at the end of the nineteenth century, Loney observed that research on the wreck was often based around \"loosely written words, sometimes presented from hearsay, sometimes from people who could barely read or write, and in most cases from some recalling memories forty or fifty years old.\" McKiggan took a more liberal view, sharing the opinion of well-known local historian Jack Powling, who wrote \"When people knew it, and could see it, they called it 'The Old Wreck;' it was only after it disappeared... that it was given the romantic and slightly misleading name of 'The Mahogany Ship.' Much has been written about it, and much of what has been written has been frankly a good deal of nonsense... Legend by now it may be, but the Old Wreck is no myth...\" In 2005, Murray Johns also documented the nineteenth century eyewitnesses to the wreck, but found they fell into three distinct groups – those who placed the wreck in the sea, a second group who said it was on the beach, a third group who identified it as high up in the sand dunes. This has led Johns to conclude the accounts were describing three separate wrecks.\n\nThe earliest documented account of a wreck in the area was carried by a Portland newspaper article of 1847 which described \"a wreck, about two miles on the Belfast side of Warrnambool…of…a three hundred ton vessel …thrown completely into the [sand] hummocks\". The article went on to connect the wreck to the 1841 discovery of a number of articles of French manufacture found strewed along the beach. In 1981, writer Ian McKiggan also found further evidence of an 1841 French shipwreck in the area in the journal of Government Surveyor C.J. Tyers. Tyers wrote that the wreckage (including a keg containing a boat compass by maker Devot of Harve) indicated an unknown French whaler had been lost in the area.\n\nResearcher Jenny Williams Fawcett describes the \"1836 Hopkins River Incident\" as a foundation myth of the Mahogany Ship story. A popular version of this story was included in \"The Book of the Bush\" by George Dunderdale, in 1898, as follows:\n\nAccording to Jenny Fawcett, Dunderdale was merely repeating an account provided by David Fermaner, who also had not seen the wreck. As Fawcett notes, Captain Mills never wrote of a buried wreck himself, although he was central to various tellings of the story. Fawcett also dismisses the widely cited accounts of local whaler Hugh Donnelly, who claimed to have been a part of the 1836 incident. Fawcett's research indicates Donnelly did not actually arrive in the area until 1843.\n\nA letter to the editor of \"The Argus\" in April, 1890, quotes 'a sight-bearing' of the wreck taken by Captain Mills, and supplied to the writer by 'Mr. J.A. Lynar, of Queen-street, Melbourne'. It reads:\nAnother letter, from 1910, quoted a resident who rented a farm in the area in 1853 when the ship was said to be still readily visible and he could 'ride into its interior'. His location was:\nIn the opinion of Johns, Captain John Mason of Port Fairy was the first to describe the ship as being constructed of a dark timber which had the appearance of cedar or mahogany, in a letter to the \"Melbourne Argus\" on 1 April 1876. Mason clarified his account in \"The Australasian\" on 1 November 1890, expressing uncertainty about the provenance of the ship and stating that he did not think it was made of mahogany, however, by this time the title Mahogany Ship had already become the popular name for the wreck, thanks to the work of journalist John Stanley James (also known as \"The Vagabond\").\n\nJoseph Archibald, curator of the Warrnambool Museum, made strenuous efforts to document accounts and stimulate local interest in the wreck in the early 1890s. In June 1890, Archibald led the first organised search for the wreck. In July, former whaler Hugh Donnelly led another search, using bearings Captain John Mills was alleged to have given a friend. In November, the Victorian Government sponsored another search. In 1891, Archibald delivered a paper entitled \"Ancient Wreck at Warrnambool\", to the Royal Geographical Society, and this appears to mark the end of his active involvement. In 1910, having conducted further research, George Gordon McCrae also delivered a paper to the Geographical Society.\nFurther searches have been conducted since the 1980s, coinciding with the publication of Kenneth McIntyre's book and the Mahogany Ship symposia, conducted in nearby Warrnambool. These were conducted with the support of local authorities, businesses and volunteer organisations such as the National Trust. To date, however, nothing has been found to verify the popular Portuguese theory. Analysis of a number of artefacts alleged to be from the wreck were discussed by Rev. John Pinson in 1987. These include a ruler and two penholders, supposedly made from timber of the wreck. In both cases the wood has been identified as native to northern New South Wales or Queensland. A fragment of wood from the collection of Joseph Archibald, held by the National Library, Canberra has been identified as eucalyptus. An unusual amphora found on the beach in 1943 has been identified as of nineteenth century North African origin. In 2000, a two-metre length of European white oak was uncovered in the sand dunes. However, its shape and state indicated it was probably part of a shipment of white oak being carried on the sailing vessel \"Falls of Halladale\", which was wrecked at Peterborough in the early twentieth century.\n\nIn many of the accounts written in the late 19th century, the Mahogany Ship was described as Spanish. According to local writer and antiquarian Jack Loney, several theories supporting the Spanish connection were advanced. One theory was that the ship was the galleon \"Santa Ysabel\", which had sailed from Peru in 1595. A second theory was that the wreck was the ex-Spanish ship \"Santa Anna\". This is clearly incorrect as \"Santa Anna\" wrecked in 1811 in the Straits of Timor.\n\nToday, a popular theory suggests that the vessel is a missing ship of voyage of Portuguese exploration, wrecked in 1522. Kenneth McIntyre advanced this theory in 1977, as part of his theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia. According to McIntyre the Mahogany Ship was part of a secret expedition, under Cristóvão de Mendonça, that set out from the Spice Islands in 1522 to look for the Isles of Gold. McIntyre argued secrecy would have been essential because the mariners were entering waters deemed Spanish under the Treaty of Tordesillas. He suggested that, after discovering the north coast of Australia, they followed and chartered it and continued down the east coast and around Cape Howe, before one of the caravels was wrecked at Warrnambool. The other ships turned back and returned to the Spice Islands and then Portugal. Maps and documents of such a voyage were kept locked away in Portugal so as to avoid antagonising Spain and to keep the discoveries from her or other nations. McIntyre suggested that all of the original documents have since been lost or destroyed, except for references to Jave la Grande, which appear on the French Dieppe school of maps. Lawrence Fitzgerald also supported McIntyre's theory connecting the Mahogany ship to a Portuguese voyage in his 1984 book, \"Java La Grande\". However, Peter Trickett's 2007 book on the theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia, \"Beyond Capricorn\", found fault with McIntyre's interpretation of the Mahogany ship as a caravel, and noted that until the wreck is found, \"all theories must remain to some degree speculative.\" Bob Nixon (2001) and Murray Johns (2005) have both criticised McIntyre's account for adding confusion to the story of the Mahogany ship through his identification of the wreck as a caravel and his selection and transcription of evidence.\n\nIn 2002 English writer Gavin Menzies speculated that the ship was a modified Chinese junk. He pointed to the reports that it was made of a 'dark wood' and was 'of an unconventional design'. He also cited claims that local Aborigines had a tradition that \"yellow men\" had at one time come from the wreck. The claims of Chinese origin have not been well received in academic circles. Many notable historians have dismissed the notion as fanciful at best.\n\nIn 2005, \"The Age\" newspaper reported Canberra mathematician Frank Coningham's claim that in the 1980s he had seen a document in a collection of British Parliamentary Papers showing British authorities \"dismantled the wreck to prevent an Australian land claim by the King of Portugal.\" However, Sydney archaeologist Denis Gojak has also investigated the claim and searched British Parliamentary papers. He has been unable to find such a document and doubts its existence as reported.\n\nMurray Johns' theory is that the Mahogany Ship was an incomplete vessel probably built by escaped Tasmanian convicts. He argues they may have arrived on the schooner \"Unity\" in 1813, which was wrecked or beached nearby. In his view, this theory explains the repeated nineteenth century references to several unidentified wrecks in different locations in the area. It also accounts for the finds of wood from northern New South Wales (where the \"Unity\" had been built), and the nineteenth century descriptions of the Mahogany Ship as crude construction.\n\nIn the novel \"Recollections of Geoffrey Hamlyn\" by Henry Kingsley, published in 1859, there is a fictional account of a wreck that resembled the Mahogany Ship. In the book the ship is described as being Dutch or Spanish. In some editions a footnote at the bottom of the page reads: \"Such a ship may be seen in the eastern end of Portland Bay, near the modern town of Port Fairy.\" To what extent the reference in this novel helped to promote the popular image of the wreck is uncertain. Murray Johns believes the footnote is a reference to the well documented wreck of the cedar built Schooner \"Sally Ann\" in Portland Bay. He also argues Thomas Clark's 1860 \"Mahogany Ship\" painting shows the \"Sally Ann\", the painting's title being adopted later.\n\n\"Wrack\", (1997), the first novel by Australian writer James Bradley, uses a wreck inspired by the Mahogany Ship as background to a murder mystery.\n\nIn 1992 the State Government of Victoria offered a reward of A$250,000 to anyone who could locate the wreck but the offer was withdrawn in 1993 without money having been paid.\n\nIn July 1999, shipwreck searcher Des Williams discovered wood fragments buried under the sand dunes in the area the ship was supposed to have been seen. These were found to be White Oak, which was a 'common shipbuilding timber' in the United States and Europe and, while from the Northern Hemisphere, could have been from the wreck of a different vessel.\n\nExtensive searches of the area were again conducted in late 1999 and in 2004, using heavy drills that penetrated to a depth of 10 metres.\n\nIn 2011, Rob Simpson used old accounts, especially of the 19th century search expedition by Alexander Rollo, to try to locate the vessel. He applied aerial archaeology techniques using Google Earth to identify what 'certainly seems to be a clear correlation between the coordinates and the outline vaguely visible' of a ship.\n\nToday, visitors frequently take to the Mahogany Ship Walking Track, which follows the coast between Warrnambool and Port Fairy and passes possible sites where the Mahogany Ship may rest. The area of greatest interest to contemporary researchers is Armstrong Bay east of Gorman's Road (formerly Lane) and west of Levy's Point near Dennington.\n\nA replica caravel inspired by the Mahogany Ship, named the \"Notorious\", was launched at Port Fairy in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n/ref>\n"}
{"id": "3116141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116141", "title": "Malignants", "text": "Malignants\n\nMalignants is a name used for the advisors of Charles I of England, chief among whom were\nThomas Wentworth, 1st Earl Strafford and William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury. The term was used by the Parliamentarians, who blamed them for the evils of the country; the name was afterwards applied to the whole Royalist party.\n\n"}
{"id": "58935193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58935193", "title": "Marian Ramelson", "text": "Marian Ramelson\n\nMarian Ramelson (1908–1967) was a 20th century communist, political activist and historian. Ramelson was the first British representative to greet the People’s Republic of China after it's establishment in 1949. Ramelson wrote \"The Petticoat Rebellion: a century of struggle for women's rights\" concerning the suffrage movement published in 1967.\n\nMarian Jessop was born in 1908 in Leeds, to parents Thomas Austin Jessop, an engine fitter, and Ethel Jessop née Wilson. Her father was a socialist and trade unionist, and served as a Leeds city councillor and was lord mayor in 1956. He supported womens suffrage, and his activism influenced Ramelson in her own political views.\n\nShe joined the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1932, and was active in the Leeds Communist Party. This followed an already long involvement in trade union activities and membership of the Labour Party, and she joined CPGB after her father's experience of long spells of unemployment; hardening her resolve to end capitalism.\n\nShe served as vice-president of the local trades council in 1934 to 1935, and at this time was also secretary of Leeds May Day committee. In 1935 she attended the International Lenin School in Moscow, an official training school for key political workers operated by the Communist International, in the final British enrollment. Following the two year course, she became the Party's first woman district organizer, for West Riding. In 1938 she was promoted to the party’s central committee. Ramelson's career in the Party was inhibited because of gender politics; she was displaced as Yorkshire district secretary by a younger, less experienced man, Mick Bennett, and in 1943 lost her place on the central committee, with the role later given to her husband Bert.\n\nIt was in the Communist Party that she met her husband Bert Ramelson, to whom she gave guidance and support when he was a new member, and the couple married in 1939. \n\nRamelson was the first British representative to greet the new People’s Republic of China in Beijing, which has been established in 1949 by the Chinese Communist Party following the Chinese Civil War, and officially recognised by Britain in 1950. She arrived in China in December 1949 for an Asian Women's conference. In 1950 she described China in the Daily Worker; \"China is free. That fact lights up the East as a blazing sun\".\n\nAfter meeting her at communist historians' gatherings, the historian Eric Hobsbawm described Ramelson as \"marvellous and remarkable\".\n\nRamelson is the author of \"The Petticoat Rebellion: a century of struggle for women's rights,\" a socialist, feminist history of the suffrage movement published in 1967.\n\nShe died in 1967 from cancer, following a long illness.\n"}
{"id": "29002325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29002325", "title": "Marker horizon", "text": "Marker horizon\n\nMarker horizons or chronohorizons or marker beds are stratigraphic units of the same age and of such distinctive composition and appearance, that, despite their presence in separate geographic locations, there is no doubt about their being of equivalent age (isochronous) and of common origin. Such clear markers facilitate the correlation of strata, and used in conjunction with fossil floral and faunal assemblages and paleomagnetism, permit the mapping of land masses and bodies of water throughout the history of the earth.\n\nPalynology, the study of fossil pollens and spores, routinely works out the stratigraphy of rocks by comparing pollen and spore assemblages with those of well-known layers - a tool frequently used by petroleum exploration companies in the search for new fields. The fossilised teeth or elements of Conodonts are an equally useful tool.\n\nThe ejecta from volcanoes and bolide impacts create useful markers, as different volcanic eruptions and impacts produce beds with distinctive compositions. Marker horizons of tephra are used as a dating tool in archaeology, since the dates of eruptions are generally well-established.\n\nOne particular bolide impact 66 million years ago, Chicxulub, is controversially held to have led to a major extinction event and produced an iridium anomaly that occurs in a thin, global layer of clay marking the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary. Iridium layers are associated with bolide impacts and are not unique, but when occurring in conjunction with the extinction of specialised tropical planktic foraminifera and the appearance of the first Danian species, signal a reliable marker horizon for the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary.\n\nFossil faunal and floral assemblages, both marine and terrestrial, make for distinctive marker horizons. Some marker units are distinctive by virtue of their magnetic qualities. The Water Tower Slates, forming part of the Hospital Hill Series in the Witwatersrand Basin, include a fine-grained ferruginous quartzite which is particularly magnetic. From the same series a ripple-marked quartzite and a speckled bed are used as marker horizons.\n\nOn a much smaller time scale, marker horizons may be created by sedimentologists and limnologists in order to measure deposition and erosion rates in a marsh or pond environment. The materials used for such an artificial horizon are chosen for their visibility and stability and may be brick dust, grog, sand, kaolin, glitter or feldspar clay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12591965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591965", "title": "Marshall Clagett", "text": "Marshall Clagett\n\nMarshall Clagett (January 23, 1916, Washington, D.C. – October 21, 2005, Princeton, New Jersey) was an American historian of science who specialized in medieval science. John Murdoch describes him as \"a distinguished medievalist\" who was \"the last member of a triumvirate [with Henry Guerlac and I. Bernard Cohen, who] … established the history of science as a recognized discipline within American universities\" while Edward Grant ranks him \"among the greatest historians and scholars of the twentieth century.\"\n\nClagett began his undergraduate education in 1933 at the California Institute of Technology. In 1935 he transferred to George Washington University, there completing his bachelor's degree and in 1937 his master's degree. He then studied history at Columbia University with Lynn Thorndike, receiving his Ph.D. in 1941. After obtaining his degree he entered the US Navy as an ensign and, having served in the Pacific and on Okinawa, was discharged in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant commander.\n\nAfter one year at Columbia University as an instructor in history and the history of science, Clagett joined the University of Wisconsin's Department of History of Science, eventually becoming Vilas Research Professor there. From 1959 to 1964, he was also director of the University's Institute for Research in the Humanities. At Wisconsin he organized an influential conference on \"Critical Problems in the History of Science\" and edited the resulting seminal volume of papers.\n\nClagett held two visiting appointments (1958–59 and 1963) at the School of Historical Studies of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey and in 1964 he was appointed permanently to the faculty of the School of Historical Studies.\n\nHe wrote more than a dozen volumes on the history of science, many of them focusing on the role of mathematics in natural philosophy and\non pure mathematics. Clagett became Professor Emeritus in 1986, continued research and writing, completing three of the planned four volumes of \"Ancient Egyptian Science\".\n\nHe was honored with the following prizes:\n\nA fellow of the Medieval Academy of America and past president of the History of Science Society, he was a member and former vice president of the American Philosophical Society. He was also a member of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Geschichte der Medizin, Naturwissenschaft und Technik, and the International Academy of the History of Science, which he served as vice president from 1968 to 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20180150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20180150", "title": "Marx's notebooks on the history of technology", "text": "Marx's notebooks on the history of technology\n\nKarl Marx wrote a number of notebooks on the history of technology which so far remain unpublished. Their whereabouts were for a long time unknown but in the past they were read and discussed by Marxist researchers. \n\nEngels lists Marx's collection of material on technology as one of Marx's \"specialisms\" in correspondence outlining their mutual division of intellectual labour. \n\nMarx directly refers to the notebooks in his letter to Engels of January 28, 1863 where he says … I have re-read my notebooks (extracts) on technology, and am attending a practical (only experimental) course for workers on the same by Professor Willis (in Jermyn Street, the Institute for Geology, where Huxley also gave his lectures)… While re-reading the technological-historical excerpts, I came to the conclusion that , apart from the invention of gun-powder, the compass and printing - these necessary pre-requisites for bourgeois development - from the 16th to the mid-18th centuries, i.e. the period of the development of manufacture from craftsmanship until really large-scale industry, the two material foundations on which were based the preparations for mechanised industry within manufacturing were the \"clock\" and the mill … \n\nAcross his writing Marx makes frequent reference to his interest in technological developments, and these mentions are complemented by generic statements such as the need for a critical history of technology in the major footnote at the beginning of the chapter on \"Machinery and Large Scale Industry\" in \"Capital, Volume I\".\n\n“A critical history of technology would show how little any of the inventions of the 18th century are the work of a single individual. Hitherto there is no such book. Darwin has interested us in the history of Nature's Technology, i.e., in the formation of the organs of plants and animals, which organs serve as instruments of production for sustaining life. Does not the history of the productive organs of man, of organs that are the material basis of all social organisation, deserve equal attention? And would not such a history be easier to compile, since, as Vico says, human history differs from natural history in this, that we have made the former, but not the latter? Technology discloses man's mode of dealing with Nature, the process of production by which, he sustains his life, and thereby also lays bare the mode of formation of his social relations, and of the mental conceptions that flow from them.” (MECW Vol 35.375)\n\nGyörgy Lukács studied these notebooks while they existed in the archives in Moscow, and appears to refer to them in a 1925 article later published in English translation in the \"New Left Review\" criticizing what he saw as Bukharin's undue technicism. Lukács added a commentary on the methodological importance of this critique to the preface to the new edition (1967) of the English Merlin 1971 translation of \"History and Class Consciousness\". \n\nNathan Rosenberg published an essay on \"Marx as a student of technology\" in his \"Inside the Black Box\" and Amy E. Wendling published a book on the notebooks entitled \"Karl Marx on Technology and Alienation\" (2009). Lucia Pradella in her study of Marx's London Notebooks cites Hans-Peter Müller’s transcribed edition in German\n"}
{"id": "2299911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2299911", "title": "Meir Pa'il", "text": "Meir Pa'il\n\nMeir Pa'il (‎; 19 June 1926 – 15 September 2015) was a colonel in the Israel Defense Forces, an Israeli politician, and military historian.\n\nPa'il was born in Jerusalem during the Mandate era as Meir Pilevsky. His parents, Nahum and Bracha Pilevsky, were pioneers of the Third Aliyah. Pa'il studied at the Tahkemoni school in Jerusalem, a school for laborer's children in Holon, and at Balfour high school in Tel Aviv. He joined the \"Working Youth\" movement in 1937 and served in an active signal unit for the Haganah. \n\nPa'il served in the Palmach from 1943-48. He participated in a series of operations, including the smuggling of illegal Jewish immigrants from Syria and Lebanon, the Saison, the Night of the Bridges, and an attack on a British police position on Mount Canaan. During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, Pa'il served in the Negev Brigade. Pa'il served as a career officer in the IDF, commanding the 51st Battalion during the Suez Crisis, the Bahad-1 officers school from 1964-1966, and the Department of Military Theory for the General Staff. He left the IDF in 1971.\n\nPa'il studied history and Middle Eastern studies at Tel Aviv University, later gaining a doctorate in military and general history. In 1973, he was among the founders of the Blue-Red Movement, which merged with Maki to form Moked, which Pa'il headed.\n\nHe was elected to the Knesset in the 1973 elections on the Moked list, and was the party's only representative in the Knesset. The party merged with several others to form the Left Camp of Israel prior to the 1977 elections. The new party won two seats, which were rotated between five party members including Pa'il. However, they failed to win any seats in the 1981 elections and Pa'il did not reappear in the Knesset. He died on September 15, 2015 due to complications of Alzheimer's disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "57804526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57804526", "title": "Michael Heffernan (academic)", "text": "Michael Heffernan (academic)\n\nMichael John Heffernan, FBA (born 7 June 1959) is a historical geographer and academic. Since 1999, he has been Professor of Historical Geography at the University of Nottingham.\n\nBorn on 7 June 1959, Michael John Heffernan graduated from the University of Wales in Swansea in 1980. He then completed his doctorate at St John's College, Cambridge; his PhD was awarded in 1987 for his thesis \"The politics of literacy: cultural change and political responses in nineteenth-century provincial France.\" Heffernan joined Loughborough University as a lecturer in 1985, and was promoted to senior lecturer five years later, then to a readership in 1995. In 1999, he was appointed Professor of Historical Geography at the University of Nottingham.\n\nAccording to his British Academy profile, Heffernan's research focuses on \"the history of geography and cartography\" and \"the historical geography of France and the French Empire in the 19th and 20th centuries\". More specifically, he has studied citizenship and national identity in late-19th- and early-20th-century France and Germany, as well as topics of war and memory between the First and Second World Wars, both with geographical and landscape dimensions, as well as the role of maps and the media in modern, western Europe.\n\nIn 2015, Heffernan was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "18825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18825", "title": "Motion Picture Patents Company", "text": "Motion Picture Patents Company\n\nThe Motion Picture Patents Company (MPPC, also known as the Edison Trust), founded in December 1908 and terminated seven years later in 1915 after conflicts within the industry, was a trust of all the major USA film companies and local foreign-branches (Edison, Biograph, Vitagraph, Essanay, Selig Polyscope, Lubin Manufacturing, Kalem Company, Star Film Paris, American Pathé), the leading film distributor (George Kleine) and the biggest supplier of raw film stock, Eastman Kodak. The MPPC ended the domination of foreign films on USA screens, standardized the manner in which films were distributed and exhibited within the USA, and improved the quality of USA motion pictures by internal competition. But it also discouraged its members' entry into feature film production, and the use of outside financing, both to its members' eventual detriment.\n\nThe MPPC was preceded by the Edison licensing system, in effect in 1907–1908, on which the MPPC was modeled. During the 1890s, Thomas Edison owned most of the major USA patents relating to motion picture cameras. The Edison Manufacturing Company's patent lawsuits against each of its domestic competitors crippled the USA's film industry, reducing production mainly to two companies: Edison and Biograph, which used a different camera design. This left Edison's other rivals with little recourse but to import French and British films.\n\nSince 1902, Edison had also been notifying distributors and exhibitors that if they did not use Edison machines and films exclusively, they would be subject to litigation for supporting filmmaking that infringed Edison's patents. Exhausted by the lawsuits, Edison's competitors — Essanay, Kalem, Pathé Frères, Selig, and Vitagraph — approached him in 1907 to negotiate a licensing agreement, which Lubin was also invited to join. The one notable filmmaker excluded from the licensing agreement was Biograph, which Edison hoped to squeeze out of the market. No further applicants could become licensees. The purpose of the licensing agreement, according to an Edison lawyer, was to \"preserve the business of present manufacturers and not to throw the field open to all competitors.\"\n\nBiograph retaliated for being frozen out of the trust agreement by purchasing the patent to the Latham film loop, a key feature of virtually all motion picture cameras then in use. Edison sued to gain control of the patent; however, after a federal court upheld the validity of the patent in 1907, Edison began negotiation with Biograph in May 1908 to reorganize the Edison licensing system. The resulting trust pooled 16 motion picture patents. Ten were considered of minor importance; the remaining key six pertained one each to films, cameras, and the Latham loop, and three to projectors.\n\nThe MPPC eliminated the outright sale of films to distributors and exhibitors, replacing it with rentals, which allowed quality control over prints that had formerly been exhibited long past their prime. The trust also established a uniform rental rate for all licensed films, thereby removing price as a factor for the exhibitor in film selection, in favor of selection made on quality, which in turn encouraged the upgrading of production values.\n\nHowever, the MPPC also established a monopoly on all aspects of filmmaking. Eastman Kodak, which owned the patent on raw film stock, was a member of the trust and thus agreed to sell stock only to other members. Likewise, the trust's control of patents on motion picture cameras ensured that only MPPC studios were able to film, and the projector patents allowed the trust to make licensing agreements with distributors and theaters – and thus determine who screened their films and where.\n\nThe patents owned by the MPPC allowed them to use federal law enforcement officials to enforce their licensing agreements and to prevent unauthorized use of their cameras, films, projectors, and other equipment. In some cases, however, the MPPC made use of hired thugs and mob connections to violently disrupt productions that were not licensed by the trust.\n\nThe MPPC also strictly regulated the production content of their films, primarily as a means of cost control. Films were initially limited to one reel in length (13–17 minutes), although competition by independent and foreign producers by 1912 led to the introduction of two-reelers, and by 1913, three- and four-reelers.\n\nMany independent filmmakers, who controlled from one-quarter to one-third of the domestic marketplace, responded to the creation of the MPPC by moving their operations to Hollywood, whose distance from Edison's home base of New Jersey made it more difficult for the MPPC to enforce its patents. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which is headquartered in San Francisco, California, and covers the area, was averse to enforcing patent claims. Southern California was also chosen because of its beautiful year-round weather and varied countryside; its topography, semi-arid climate and widespread irrigation gave its landscapes the ability to offer motion picture shooting scenes set in deserts, jungles and great mountains. Hollywood had one additional advantage: if a non-licensed studio was sued, it was only a hundred miles to \"run for the border\" and get out of the US to Mexico, where the trust's patents were not in effect and thus equipment could not be seized.\n\nThe reasons for the MPPC's decline are manifold. The first blow came in 1911, when Eastman Kodak modified its exclusive contract with the MPPC to allow Kodak, which led the industry in quality and price, to sell its raw film stock to unlicensed independents. The number of theaters exhibiting independent films grew by 33 percent within twelve months, to half of all houses.\n\nAnother reason was the MPPC's overestimation of the efficiency of controlling the motion picture industry through patent litigation and the exclusion of independents from licensing. The slow process of using detectives to investigate patent infringements, and of obtaining injunctions against the infringers, was outpaced by the dynamic rise of new companies in diverse locations.\n\nDespite the rise in popularity of feature films in 1912–1913 from independent producers and foreign imports, the MPPC was very reluctant to make the changes necessary to distribute such longer films. Edison, Biograph, Essanay, and Vitagraph did not release their first features until 1914, after dozens, if not hundreds, of feature films had been released by independents.\n\nPatent royalties to the MPPC ended in September 1913 with the expiration of the last of the patents filed in the mid-1890s at the dawn of commercial film production and exhibition. Thus the MPPC lost the ability to control the American film industry through patent licensing, and had to rely instead on its subsidiary, the General Film Company, formed in 1910, which monopolized film distribution in USA.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I in 1914 cut off most of the European market, which played a much more significant part of the revenue and profit for MPPC members than for the independents, which concentrated on Westerns produced for a primarily USA market.\n\nThe end came with a federal court decision in \"United States v. Motion Picture Patents Co.\" on October 1, 1915, which ruled that the MPPC's acts went \"far beyond what was necessary to protect the use of patents or the monopoly which went with them\" and was therefore an illegal restraint of trade under the Sherman Antitrust Act. An appellate court dismissed the MPPC's appeal, and officially terminated the company in 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8343377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343377", "title": "New labor history", "text": "New labor history\n\nNew labor history is a branch of labor history which focuses on the experiences of workers, women, and minorities in the study of history. It is heavily influenced by social history.\n\nBefore the 1960s, most labor historians around the world focused on the history of labor unions. In the United States, for example, labor economists at the University of Wisconsin dominated the academic discipline of labor history. Paramount in their research were the development of markets, trade unions, and political philosophies.\n\nIn the 1950s, British and other European historians developed the field of social history to correct the structuralist imbalances they perceived in the study of history. Social historians not only sought to enlarge the study of history but to refocus it on the experiences of common people rather than institutions or elites.\n\nBritish social historians such as E. P. Thompson, in particular, had a significant impact on American labor historians. Labor scholars to the right and left of the American political spectrum found it difficult to explain the rise of labor in the late 19th century, and social history offered at least a new approach to solving the riddle. Social history also took root at the same time that American organized labor began to decline. For left-leaning labor scholars, social history suggested a new way to revitalize the U.S. labor movement by focusing attention away from conservative leaders and institutions, as well as a means for academics to engage with workers themselves. For some, the new labor history moved the discipline of labor history away from the Marxist theoretical perspective that saw trade union movements in terms of elites, classes and institutions (see Rogin, 2002).\n\nEuropean and American critics of the \"new labor history\" charge that historians now neglect institutions and elites. They argue that labor leaders and unions shape workers' goals and values as much as reflect them. They also point out that the \"new labor history\" has a tendency to ignore larger cultural trends and movements and technological developments which operate on a more systemic level than the individual.\n\nEspecially in the U.S., many young labor historians are attempting a new synthesis of the \"old\" and \"new\" labor histories. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24732512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24732512", "title": "Nikolay Nikolsky", "text": "Nikolay Nikolsky\n\nNikolay Vasilyevich Nikolsky (May 19, 1878 – November 2, 1961) was a Russian historian, ethnographer, folklorist, lexicographer of half-Russian (mother) half- Chuvash (father) ethnicity.\n\nNikolay Vasilyevich Nikolsky was born in a village of Yurmekeykino, Yadrinsk uyezd (today Morgaushsky District of Chuvash Republic) in the family of surveyor. After finishing the local Shumatov zemstvo College he enrolled in the Theological College in Cheboksary. After that he studied also in the Theological Seminary in Kazan which Nikolsky finished in 1899 and then continuing to study at the Theological Academy of Kazan. Upon graduation of the academy he obtained the title of magistrate and his dissertation by the academy council was recognized as the best to reflect the history of Russian church.\n\nBy the referral of the Kazan Academy the ober-procuror of Holy Synod appointed Nikolsky as the instructor at the Theological Seminary in Irkutsk. He rejected the appointment as he had intentions to study history of Chuvash culture. Therefore he stayed in Kazan where he found much less paid job as the observer over the students at the local seminary until November 1906. Simultaneously he worked as an instructor of the Chuvash language and the history and ethnography of Chuvash people in the Kazan Academy until 1917.\n\nIn the 1900s he published numerous of his research of the Chuvash folklore, culture, as well as the Russian-Chuvash dictionary. In January 1906 he started to publish the Chuvash newspaper \"Hypar\" (News -engl.). In November 1906 he became a history instructor at the Kazan Teaching Seminary along with the duty of a local librarian. From all those positions he was relieved in 1910 when there were some revolutionary activities going in Kazan. In 1907 Nikolsky was accepted as the teacher of Chuvash language in the Kazan Theological Seminary where he worked until 1916.\n\nIn 1915 he was accepted as private docent at the Kazan University and was allowed to read lectures as part of the \"History course of Christian Enlightenment\". In 1920 Nikolsky published a book on the \"History of Mari\". Later in 1929 he published series of other historical books on the Chuvash, Mordva, and Mari cultures. By the end of the 1950s he was specializing in the local folklore publishing series of ethnic fairy-tales and mythological stories based on the local culture. In 1947 by the order of the Ministry of the Higher Education of the Soviet Union he was awarded the science degree of doctor of history. Nikolsky died on November 2, 1961 in Kazan.\n\n"}
{"id": "486215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486215", "title": "ODESSA", "text": "ODESSA\n\nThe ODESSA is an American codename (from the German: \"Organisation der ehemaligen SS-Angehörigen\", meaning: Organization of Former SS Members) coined in 1946 for a possible Nazi underground escape plan at the end of World War II by a group of SS officers with the aim of facilitating secret escape routes. The idea has been widely circulated in fictional spy novels and movies, notably Frederick Forsyth's best-selling 1972 thriller \"The Odessa File\". The routes are also called ratlines. The goal was to allow the SS members to escape to Argentina, Brazil, or the Middle East under false passports. This goal was in fact achieved by 300 Nazis with support from Juan Perón after he came to power in Argentina in 1946.\n\nThough an unknown number of wanted Nazis and war criminals did in fact escape Europe, the existence of an organisation called ODESSA is rejected by most experts. However it is widely accepted that there were escape organisations for Nazis. Uki Goñi maintains that archival evidence paints a picture that \"does not even include an organization actually named Odessa, but it is sinister nonetheless, and weighted in favour of an actual organized escape network.\" Guy Walters, in his 2009 book \"Hunting Evil\", stated he was unable to find any evidence of the existence of the ODESSA network as such, although numerous other organisations such as \"Konsul\", \"Scharnhorst\", \"Sechsgestirn\", \"Leibwache\", and \"Lustige Brüder\" have been named, including \"Die Spinne\" (\"The Spider\") run in part by Hitler's commando chief Otto Skorzeny. Historian Daniel Stahl in his 2011 essay stated that the consensus among historians is that an organisation called ODESSA did not actually exist. Uki Goñi's book \"The Real Odessa\" describes the role of Juan Peron in providing cover for Nazi war criminals with cooperation from the Vatican, the Argentinean government and the Swiss authorities through a secret office set up by Peron's agents in Bern. Heinrich Himmler's secret service had prepared an escape route in Madrid in 1944, in 1946, this operation moved to the Presidential palace in Buenos Aires, Goñi states that the operation stretched from Scandinavia to Italy, aiding war criminals and bringing in gold that the Croatian treasury had stolen.\n\nThe codeword \"Odessa\" – as used by the Allies – appeared for the first time in a memo dated July 3, 1946, by the American Counterintelligence Corps (CIC) whose principal role was to screen displaced persons for possible suspects. The CIC discovered that the word \"ODESSA\" was used at the KZ Bensheim-Auerbach internment camp for SS prisoners who used this watchword in their secret attempts to gain special privileges from the Red Cross, wrote historian Guy Walters. Neither the Americans nor the British were able to verify the claims extending any further than that.\n\nAccording to Simon Wiesenthal, the ODESSA was set up in 1944 to aid fugitive Nazis. However, a documentary produced by the German TV station ZDF also suggested that the ODESSA was never the single world-wide secret organisation that Wiesenthal described, but several organisations, both overt and covert, that helped ex-SS men. The truth may have been obscured by antagonism between the Wiesenthal organisation and West German military intelligence. It is known that Austrian authorities were investigating the organization several years before Wiesenthal went public with his information.\n\nSimilarly, historian Gitta Sereny wrote in her 1974 book \"Into That Darkness\", based on interviews with the former commandant of the Treblinka extermination camp, Franz Stangl, that an organisation called ODESSA had never existed although there were Nazi aid organisations:\n\nThis view is supported by historian Guy Walters in his book \"Hunting Evil\", where he also points out that networks were used, but there was not such a thing as a setup network covering Europe and South America, with an alleged war treasure. For Walters, the reports received by the allied intelligence services during the mid-1940s suggest that the appellation \"ODESSA\" was \"little more than a catch-all term used by former Nazis who wished to continue the fight.\"\n\nNazi concentration camp supervisors denied the existence of an organisation called ODESSA. The US War Crimes Commission reports and the American OSS neither confirmed nor denied claims about the existence of such an organisation. Wechsberg, who after emigrating to the United States had served as an OSS officer and member of the US War Crimes Commission, however, claimed that in interviews of outspoken German anti-Nazis some asserted that plans were made for a Fourth Reich before the fall of the Third, and that this was to be implemented by reorganising in remote Nazi colonies overseas: \"The Nazis decided that the time had come to set up a world-wide clandestine escape network.\"\n\nIn his interviews with Sereny, Stangl denied any knowledge of a group called the ODESSA. Recent biographies of Adolf Eichmann, who also escaped to South America, and Heinrich Himmler, the alleged founder of the ODESSA, made no reference to such an organisation. However, Hannah Arendt, in her book, \"Eichmann in Jerusalem\", states that \"in 1950, [Eichmann] succeeded in establishing contact with ODESSA, a clandestine organisation of SS veterans, and in May of that year, he was passed through Austria to Italy, where a priest, fully informed of his identity, equipped him with a refugee passport in the name of Richard Klement and sent him on to Buenos Aires.\" Notorious Auschwitz doctor Josef Mengele also escaped to Brazil.\n\nSereny attributed the escape of SS members to postwar chaos and the inability of the Catholic Church, the Red Cross and the American military to verify the claims of people who came to them for help, rather than to the activities of an underground Nazi organisation. She identified a Vatican official, Bishop Aloïs Hudal, not former SS men, as the principal agent in helping Nazis leave Italy for South America, mainly Brazil.\n\nOf particular importance in examining the postwar activities of high-ranking Nazis was Paul Manning's book \"Martin Bormann: Nazi in Exile,\" which detailed Bormann's rise to power through the Nazi Party and as Hitler's Chief of Staff. During the war, Manning himself was a correspondent for CBS News in London, and his reporting and subsequent researches presented Bormann's cunning and skill in the organisation and planning for the flight of Nazi-controlled capital from Europe during the last years of the war—notwithstanding the strong possibility of Bormann's death in Berlin on 1 May 1945, especially in light of DNA identification of skeletal remains unearthed near the Lehrter Bahnhof as Bormann's.\n\nAccording to Manning, \"eventually, over 10,000 former German military made it to South America along escape routes set up by (the) ODESSA and the \"Deutsche Hilfsverein\"...\" (page 181). The ODESSA itself was incidental, says Manning, with the continuing existence of the Bormann Organisation a much larger and more menacing fact. None of this had yet been convincingly proven.\n\nIn the realm of fiction, Frederick Forsyth's best-selling 1972 thriller \"The Odessa File\" brought the organisation to popular attention. (The novel was turned into a film starring Jon Voight.) In the novel, Forsyth's ODESSA smuggled war criminals to South America, but also attempted to protect those SS members who remained behind in Germany, and plotted to influence political decisions in West Germany. Many of the novel's readers assumed that ODESSA really existed.\n\nIn the 1976 thriller novel by Ira Levin titled \"The Boys from Brazil\", Dr. Josef Mengele, the concentration camp medical doctor who performed horrific experiments on camp victims during World War II, is involved in ODESSA. According to a young man and spy on his trail, Mengele is activating the \"Kameradenwerk\" for a strange assignment: he is sending out six Nazis (former SS Officers) to kill 94 men, who share a few common traits. In the book the terms \"Kameradenwerk\" and \"ODESSA\" are used interchangeably.\n\nIt was mentioned in three Phoenix Force novels: \"Ultimate Terror\" (1984), \"The Twisted Cross\" (1986) and \"Terror In The Dark\" (1987). It was also mentioned, sometimes in veiled terms, in Philip Kerr's 2006 novel, \"The One From the Other\" — one of Kerr's Bernie Gunther mysteries. Novelist Eric Frattini has emphasised his belief in ODESSA and incorporates elements in his novels, such as the 2010 thriller, \"The Mephisto's Gold\".\n\nThe First Order, the main antagonists from the \"Star Wars\" sequel trilogy, were based on the concept of ODESSA, in particular the theory that several Nazis escaped into Argentina.\n\nBormann's survival and the ratline are also part of the History Channel TV series \"Hunting Hitler\" (2015-2018) in which former CIA agent Bob Baer, Gerrard Williams (author of \"Grey Wolf: The Escape of Adolf Hitler\") and Tim Kennedy, a former member of the 7th Special Forces Group of the US Army, try to prove that Hitler might have survived WW II and fled to Argentina.\n\nODESSA and another secret society was mentioned in Terry Hayes' novel \"I am Pilgrim\". In the novel, the main character, disguised as an FBI agent in Damascus, is searching for a secret passage and encounters an underground tunnel with German inscribing on a tunnel wall. Names of SS military personnel involved with the construction of the tunnel are listed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13920119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13920119", "title": "Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society", "text": "Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society\n\nThe Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society, also known as PPTS, was a text publication society, which specialised in publishing editions and translations of medieval texts relevant to the history of pilgrimage to the Holy Land. The society was established in London to provide translations of accounts by pilgrims and other travelers between the 4th and 15th centuries. Particular attention was given to accounts containing geographical or topographical information, as well as those which discussed the manners and customs of the Holy Land. The original narratives were written in a variety of languages, including Greek, Latin, Arabic, Hebrew, Old French, Russian, and German.\n\nThe Society first started publishing its work in 1884, and continued for eleven years, publishing a total of twelve volumes. In 1896, these works were transferred to the Palestine Exploration Fund, for distribution to the members of the PPTS.\n\nThe editions remain valuable and are frequently cited in scholarly works. A version is also available as \"The library of the Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society\".\n\nCertain well-known pilgrimages included are those of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23151331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23151331", "title": "Peter Harrison (historian)", "text": "Peter Harrison (historian)\n\nPeter Harrison FAHA (born 1955) is an Australian Laureate Fellow and director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities at the University of Queensland.\n\nPeter Harrison holds a DLitt from the University of Oxford, a PhD from the University of Queensland, and master's degrees from Yale and Oxford. He began his academic career at Bond University on Australia’s Gold Coast, where for a number of years he was professor of history and philosophy. From 2007 to 2011 he was Andreas Idreos Professor of Science and Religion at the University of Oxford. During his time at Oxford, he was director of the Ian Ramsey Centre and a fellow of Harris Manchester College. He became the inaugural director of the University of Queensland's Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities in July 2015. A fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities, he was a recipient of a Centenary Medal in 2003. He was the 2011 Gifford Lecturer at the University of Edinburgh and is a senior research fellow in the Ian Ramsey Centre at Oxford. In 2014 he was awarded an Australian Laureate Fellowship to conduct a five-year research project exploring science and secularization. In 2015, \"The Territories of Science and Religion\" was named winner of the Aldersgate Prize.\n\nHarrison is best known for a number of influential writings on religion and the origins of modern science. He has argued that changing approaches to the interpretation of the Bible had a significant impact on the development of modern science. He has also suggested that the biblical story of the fall of man played a key role in the development of experimental science. His earlier work traces changing conceptions of religion in the Western world. Harrison contends that the idea of religions as sets of beliefs and practices emerged for the first time in the 17th century. This earlier work on religion was revisited in his 2011 Gifford Lectures, where he argued that current conceptions of both 'science' and 'religion' are relatively recent Western inventions, and that contemporary relations between science and religion are to some extent already built into the categories themselves. Rethinking the relations between science and religion, on this account, is not a matter of considering relations between scientific and religious doctrines, but of rethinking the ways in which science and religion themselves are currently conceptualised.\n\nSimilarly, he also contends that the concept of Western values is a quite recent, 20th century Western emergence, despite being traced back to classical antiquity and the New Testament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37595864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37595864", "title": "Philippine peso sign", "text": "Philippine peso sign\n\nThe Philippine Peso Sign (₱), is the currency sign used for the Banknotes of the Philippine Peso or Coins of the Philippine Peso, the official currency of the Philippines. The symbol resembles a Latin letter P with a double stroke.\n\nThis insignia of the Philippine peso is native to the Philippines, while the other countries having peso as the main currency use the dollar sign as their symbol.\n\nThe peso is usually denoted by the symbol \"₱\". This symbol was added to the Unicode standard in version 3.2 and is assigned U+20B1 (₱). The symbol can be accessed through some word processors by typing in \"20b1\" and then pressing the \"Alt\" and \"X\" buttons simultaneously, or by pressing and holding \"alt\", then pressing \"8369\" on the keypad. Other ways of writing the Philippine Peso sign are \"PHP\", \"PhP\", \"P\", or \"P\" (strike-through or double-strike-through uppercase P), which is still the most common method, although font support for the Unicode Peso sign has been around for some time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1866773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866773", "title": "Pyramid Texts", "text": "Pyramid Texts\n\nThe Pyramid Texts are the oldest known corpus of ancient Egyptian religious texts dating to the Old Kingdom. Written in Old Egyptian, the pyramid texts were carved onto the subterranean walls and sarcophagi of pyramids at Saqqara from the end of the Fifth Dynasty, and throughout the Sixth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom, and into the Eighth Dynasty of the First Intermediate Period.\n\nThe oldest of the texts have been dated to c. 2400–2300 BC. Unlike the later Coffin Texts and Book of the Dead, the pyramid texts were reserved only for the pharaoh and were not illustrated. Following the earlier Palermo Stone, the pyramid texts mark the next-oldest known mention of Osiris, who would become the most important deity associated with afterlife in the Ancient Egyptian religion.\n\nThe use and occurrence of pyramid texts changed between the Old, Middle and New Kingdoms of Ancient Egypt. During the Old Kingdom (2886 BC – 2181 BC), pyramid texts could be found in the pyramids of kings as well as a three queens named Wedjebten, Neith, and Iput. During the Middle Kingdom (2055 BC – 1650 BC) pyramid texts were not written in the pyramids of the Pharaohs, but the traditions of the pyramid spells continued to be practiced. In the New Kingdom (1550 BC – 1070 BC) pyramid texts could now be found on tombs of officials.\n\nFrench archaeologist and Egyptologist Gaston Maspero, director of the French Institute for Oriental Archaeology in Cairo, arrived in Egypt in 1880. He chose a site in South Saqqara, a hill that had been mapped by the Prussian Egyptologist Karl Richard Lepsius in the prior decades, for his first archaeological dig. There, Maspero found the ruins of a large structure, which he concluded must be the pyramid of Pepi I of the Sixth Dynasty. During the excavations he was able to gain access to the subterranean rooms, and discovered that the walls of the structure were covered in hieroglyphic text. Maspero contacted the then 'director of the excavations' in Egypt, Auguste Mariette, to inform him of the discovery, though Mariette concluded that the structure must be a mastaba as no writing had previously been discovered in a pyramid. \nMaspero continued his excavations at a second structure, around a kilometre south-west of the first, in search of more evidence. This second structure was determined to be the pyramid of Merenre I, Pepi I's successor. In it, Maspero discovered the same hieroglyphic text on the walls he'd found in Pepi I's pyramid, and the mummy of a man in the sarcophagus of the burial chamber. This time, he visited Mariette personally, though he rejected the findings, stating on his deathbed that \"[i]n thirty years of Egyptian excavations I have never seen a pyramid whose underground rooms had hieroglyphs written on their walls.\" Throughout 1881, Maspero continued to direct investigations of other sites in Saqqara, and more texts were found in each of the pyramids of Unas, Teti and Pepi II. Maspero began publishing his findings in the \"Recuils des Travaux\" from 1882, and continued to be involved in the excavations of the pyramid in which the texts had been found until 1886.\n\nMaspero published the first corpora of the text in 1894 in French under the title \"Les inscriptions des pyramides de Saqqarah\". Translations were made by German Egyptologist Kurt Heinrich Sethe to German in 1908–1910 in \"Die altägyptischen Pyramidentexte\". The concordance that Sethe published is considered to be the standard version of the texts. Samuel A. B. Mercer published a translation into English of Sethe's work in 1952. British Egyptologist Raymond O. Faulkner presented the texts in English in 1969 in \"The Ancient Egyptian Pyramid Texts\".\n\nThe first systematic investigations of Pepi II and his wives' Neith, Iput II, and Wedjebetni pyramids was conducted by Gustave Jéquier between 1926 and 1932. Jéquier also conducted the excavations of Qakare Ibi's pyramid. He later published the complete corpus of texts found in these five pyramids. Since 1958, expeditions under the directions of Jean-Philippe Lauer, Jean Sainte-Fare Garnot, and Jean Leclant have undertaken a major restoration project of the pyramids belonging to Teti, Pepi I, and Merenre I, as well as the pyramid of Unas. By 1999, the pyramid of Pepi had been opened to the public, and the debris cleared away from the pyramid while research continued under the direction of . The corpus of pyramid texts in Pepi I's pyramid were published in 2001. In 2010, the texts were discovered in Behenu's tomb.\n\nTo date, the Pyramid Texts have been discovered in the pyramids of pharaohs:\nUnas: (Dynasty V; ca. 2353-2323 BC)Teti: (Dynasty VI; ca. 2323-2291 BC)Pepi I: (Dynasty VI; ca. 2289-2255 BC)Merenre I: (Dynasty VI; ca. 2255-2246 BC)Pepi II: (Dynasty VI; ca. 2246-2152 BC)Qakare Ibi: (Dynasty VIII; ca. 2109–2107 BCE) and in the pyramids of queens:\nAkhesenpepi II, wife of Pepi I (Dynasty VI) Neith, wife of Pepi II (Dynasty VI)Iput II, wife of Pepi II (Dynasty VI)<br>Wedjebetni, wife of Pepi II (Dynasty VI)<br>Behenu, probable wife of Pepi II (Dynasty VI)\n\nThe spells, or utterances, of the Pyramid Texts were primarily concerned with enabling the transformation of the deceased into an Akh. The spells of the Pyramid Texts are divided into two broad categories: Sacerdotal texts and Personal texts. \n\nThe sacerdotal texts are ritual in nature, and were conducted by the lector priest addressing the deceased in the second person. They consist of offering spells, short spells recited in the presentation of an offering, and recitations which are predominantly instructional. These texts appear in the Offering and Insignia Rituals, the Resurrection Ritual, and in the four pyramids containing the Morning Ritual. The writing in these texts indicates that they originated around the time of the Second and Third Dynasties. \n\nThe remaining texts are personal, and are broadly concerned with guiding the spirit out of the tomb, and into new life. They consist of provisioning, transition, and apotropaic or protective texts. The provisioning texts deal with the deceased taking command of his own food-supply, and demanding nourishment from the gods. One example of these texts is the king's response in Unas' pyramid. The transition texts otherwise known as the \"Sakhu\" or Glorifications are predominantly about the transformation of the deceased into an Akh, and their ascent, mirroring the motion of the gods, into the sky. These texts form the largest part of the corpus, and are dominated by the youngest texts composed in the Fifth and possibly Sixth Dynasties. Apotropaic texts consist of short protective spells for warding off threats to the body and tomb. Due to the archaic style of writing these texts are considered to be the oldest, and are the most difficult to interpret.\n\nThese utterances were meant to be chanted by those who were reciting them. They contained many verbs such as \"fly\" and \"leap\" depicting the actions taken by the Pharaohs to get to the afterlife. The spells delineate all of the ways the pharaoh could travel, including the use of ramps, stairs, ladders, and most importantly flying. The spells could also be used to call the gods to help, even threatening them if they did not comply. It was common for the pyramid texts to be written in the first person, but not uncommon for texts to be later changed to the third person. Often times this depended on who was reciting the texts and who they were recited for. Many of the texts include accomplishments of the Pharaoh as well as the things they did for the Egyptian people during the time of their rule. These texts were used to both guide the pharaohs to the afterlife, but also inform and assure the living that the soul made it to its final destination.\n\nThe texts first appeared in the pyramid of the last pharaoh of the Fifth Dynasty, that belonging to Unas. A total of 283 spells appear on the subterranean walls of Unas' pyramid, constituting the oldest, smallest, and best preserved corpus of the texts in the Old Kingdom.\nUnas' pyramid, situated between the pyramids of Djoser and Sekhemkhet in North Saqqara, was the smallest of those built in the Old Kingdom. It had a core built six steps high from roughly dressed limestone, encased by a layer of carefully cut fine white limestone, with it a base length of which with an incline of 56° gave the pyramid a height of . The substructure was accessed through an entrance in the pavement of a chapel on the north face of the pyramid. The entry led into a downward sloping corridor, followed by a 'corridor-chamber' with three granite portcullises that guarded the entrance into the horizontal passage. The horizontal passage ends at the antechamber of the substructure, and is guarded by a fourth granite portcullis. The antechamber connects to two further rooms, a room with three recesses for holding statues called the \"serdab\" to the east, and the burial chamber with the ruler's sarcophagus to the west. The roofs of both the antechamber and burial chamber were gabled.\n\nWith the exception of the walls immediately surrounding the sarcophagus, which were lined with alabaster and painted to resemble reed mats with a wood-frame enclosure, the remaining walls of the antechamber, burial chamber and a section of the horizontal passage were covered with vertical columns of hieroglyphs that make up the Pyramid Texts. Unas' sarcophagus was left without inscription, and the king's royal titulary did not appear on the walls surrounding it, as it does in later pyramids. \n\nThe west gable of the burial chamber is inscribed with protective spells; in later pyramids the gable was used for texts commending the king to Nut, and, from Pepi I onwards, also for Sakhu, or 'glorifications', for the transformation into an Akh. The other walls of the burial chamber are primarily dedicated to ritual texts. The north wall, along with the northern part of the east wall and passage, are dedicated to the Offering Ritual. Spatial considerations required part of the ritual to be spread across to other walls, and likely explains the omission of the Insignia Ritual altogether from the pyramid. The Offering Ritual, from the 'initial libation' to the 'dedication of offerings' occupies the north wall and is arrayed into three horizontal registers.\n\nKurt Sethe's first edition of the pyramid texts contained 714 distinct spells; after this publication additional spells were discovered bringing the total to 759. No single collection uses all recorded spells.\nOf all pyramid texts, those of King Unas were considered some of the most influential. Although the shortest and smallest of all pyramid texts, Unas' texts have been used to replicate numerous texts to follow including those found in Senworsret-ankh at Lisht, from the Middle Kingdom. These texts were also the first to be discovered and later published.\n\nBecause of its early use, the set up and layout of the Unas pyramid was replicated and expanded on for future pyramids. A canal ran from the pyramid to a valley temple, where boats could be moored. The causeway ran 750 meters long and is still in good condition, unlike many causeways found in similar ancient Egyptian pyramids. \n\nIn the pyramid of Unas, the ritual texts could be found in the underlying supporting structure, while the antechamber and corridor contained texts and spells personalized to the Pharaoh himself.\n\nThe following example comes from the pyramid of Unas. It was to be recited in the South Side Burial Chamber and Passage, and it was the Invocation To New Life.\n\nUtterance 213:\n\n\"Ho, Unis! You have not gone away dead: you have gone away alive. <br> Sit on Osiris's chair, with your baton in your arm, and govern the living; <br> with your water lily scepter in you arm, and govern those <br> of the inaccessible places. <br> Your lower arms are of Atum, your upper arms of Atum, your belly of <br> Atum, your back of Atum, your rear of Atum, your legs of Atum, your <br> face of Anubis. <br> Horus's mounds shall serve you; Seth's mounds shall serve you.\"\n\nThe various pyramid texts often contained writings of rituals and offerings to the gods. Examples of these rituals are the Opening of the mouth ceremony, offering rituals, and insignia ritual. Both monetary and prayer based offerings were made in the pyramids and were written in the pyramid texts in hopes of getting the pharaoh to a desirable afterlife. Rituals such as the opening of the mouth and eye ceremony were very important for the Pharaoh in the afterlife. This ceremony involved the Kher-Heb (the chief lector priest) along with assistants opening the eyes and mouth of the dead while reciting prayers and spells. Mourners were encouraged to cry out as special instruments were used to cut holes in the mouth. After the ceremony was complete, it was believed that the dead could now eat, speak, breathe and see in the afterlife.\n\nThe Egyptian pyramids are made up of various corridors, tunnels, and rooms which have different significances and uses during the burial and ritual process. Texts were written and recited by priests in a very particular order, often starting in the Valley Temple and finishing in the Coffin or Pyramid Room. The variety of offerings and rituals were also most likely recited in a particular order. The Valley Temple often contained an offering shrine, where rituals would be recited.\n\nPyramid texts were not only found in the tombs of kings, but queens as well. Queen Neith, who was the wife of Pepi II, is one of three queens of the 6th dynasty whose tomb contains pyramid texts. The other two queens (both also thought to be wives of Pepi II) Iput II and Wedjebetni also contained tombs inscribed with texts but those of Neith have been kept in much better condition. Compared to the tombs of the kings, the layout and structure of those that belonged to these queens was much simpler. Though much simpler, the layout of the texts corresponded to similar walls and locations as those of the kings. For example, the Resurrection Ritual is found on the east end of the south wall. Due to the fact that the pyramid of Neith did not contain an antechamber, many of the spells normally written there were also written on the south wall.\n\nThe texts of Queen Neith were similar and different to those of the kings in a few additional ways. Like those of the kings, the use of both the first and third person is present in these pyramid texts. Neith's name is used throughout the texts to make them more personal. Many of the pronouns used throughout her pyramid texts are male, indicative of the parallels between the texts of the kings and queens, but a few female pronouns can be found. The texts also contain spells and utterances that are meant to be read by both the spirit herself as well as others addressing her.\n\nAfter death, the king must first rise from his tomb. Utterance 373 describes:\n\nThe texts then describe several ways for the pharaoh to reach the heavens, and one of these is by climbing a ladder. In utterance 304 the king says:\n\nAnother way is by ferry. If the boatman refuses to take him, the king has other plans:\n\nUtterances 273 and 274 are sometimes known as the \"Cannibal Hymn\", because it describes the king hunting and eating parts of the gods: They represent a discrete episode (Utterances 273-274) in the anthology of ritual texts that make up the Pyramid Texts of the Old Kingdom period.\n\nAppearing first in the Pyramid of Unas at the end of the Fifth Dynasty, the Cannibal Hymn preserves an early royal butchery ritual in which the deceased king—assisted by the god Shezmu—slaughters, cooks and eats the gods as sacrificial bulls, thereby incorporating in himself their divine powers in order that he might negotiate his passage into the Afterlife and guarantee his transformation as a celestial divinity ruling in the heavens.\n\nThe style and format of the Cannibal Hymn are characteristic of the oral-recitational poetry of pharaonic Egypt, marked by allusive metaphor and the exploitation of wordplay and homophony in its verbal recreation of a butchery ritual.\n\nApart from the burial of Unas, only the Pyramid of Teti displays the Cannibal Hymn.\n\nThe Cannibal Hymn later reappeared in the Coffin Texts as Spell 573. It was dropped by the time the Book of the Dead was being copied.\n\nIn the first scene of Philip Glass's opera \"Akhnaten\", the phrase \"Open are the double doors of the horizon\" is a quotation from the Pyramid Texts. More specifically, it seems to come from Utterance 220.\n\nThe American death metal band Nile made a song, \"Unas Slayer of the Gods\" which contains many references to the Pyramid Texts, including the Cannibal Hymn.\n\nIn the 2001 action-adventure movie, \"The Mummy Returns\", when Imhotep gets a jar full of dust and blows it, he quotes part of the Utterance 373 and the dust turns into mummy warriors.\n\nThe 2013 BBC programme \"Ripper Street\", Colonel Madoc Faulkner (Iain Glen) refers to a variant of Utterance 325\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33472852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33472852", "title": "Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims", "text": "Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims\n\nThe Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims or Muslim Resolution of 1941 (/Сарајевска резолуција) was one of the \"Resolutions of Muslims\" from Bosnia and Herzegovina (then parts of the Independent State of Croatia) declared by 108 notable Muslim citizens of Sarajevo during the Second World War in Sarajevo on October 12, 1941. \n\nThe resolution was provoked by the persecution of Serbs organized by Ustaše wearing \"the fez as a Muslim symbol\" and by the consequent response of Serb Chetniks who persecuted Muslims believing they were responsible for the crimes of Ustaše. The text of this resolution was based on the resolution of the assembly of \"El-Hidaje\" (an association of ulama from Bosnia and Herzegovina) held on August 14, 1941. \n\nBy signing the text of the resolution notable Muslims from Sarajevo condemned the persecutions of the Serbs, distanced from the Muslims who participated in such persecutions and protested against the attempts to blame a whole Muslim population for the crimes of Ustaša. The text of the resolution contained their request to government of the Independent State of Croatia to provide a security for the all citizens of country regardless of their identity, to punish those who were responsible for the committed atrocities and to help people who suffered during disorder. Authors of the text of the resolution were Mehmed Handžić and Kasim Dobrača.\n\nIn the Second World War, the territory of modern Bosnia and Herzegovina became part of the Independent State of Croatia. An organized persecution of Serbs, Jews and Romani people took place on the whole territory of Independent State of Croatia (including Bosnia and Herzegovina) soon after it was established. Ustaše wanted to cause conflicts between Muslims and Orthodox Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, they recruited some members of Muslim population of Bosnia and Herzegovina to participate in the persecution of Serbs. They wore Muslim clothes and shouted Muslim names when they organized attacks on Serb population. Such activities resulted with armed conflicts between Serbs and Muslims. That was the reason why Muslims from many towns of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared their resolutions. Most notable are the resolutions of Muslims from Prijedor (September 23, 1941), Sarajevo (October 12, 1941), Mostar (October 21, 1941), Banja Luka (November 12, 1941), Bijeljina (December 2, 1941), Tuzla (December 11, 1941) and Zenica (May 26, 1942).\n\nThe basis for the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims was a resolution declared by \"El-Hidaje\", an association of ulama from Bosnia and Herzegovina on its assembly held on August 14, 1941. It was written by Mehmed Handžić and Kasim Dobrača. All Muslim resolutions of 1941, including the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims, contain the following elements:\n\nThe conclusion of the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims included request for providing the security for all citizens of the country, regardless of their identity, punishing the individuals responsible for the committed atrocities and helping the people who suffered during disorder.\n\nThe resolution was officially delivered to Jozo Dumandžić when he visited Sarajevo as minister in the government of Independent State of Croatia. By the order of Ante Pavelić, Dumandžić unsuccessfully attempted to force the signatories of the resolution to recall their signatures. Džafer Kulenović has also been ordered by Pavelić to force the signatories of the resolution to recall their signatures, but he failed too.\n\nMuslims who signed the resolution were exposed to explicit threats of the Ustaša regime. Jure Francetić, a World War II Ustaše Commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina, threatened to send all signatories to the Nazi concentration camps.\n\nAfter the Resolution of Sarajevo Muslims had been signed, Muslims from many other towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina signed similar resolutions in following months. On December 1, 1941, Muslims from Sarajevo submitted another protest against actions of Ustaše \"under the fez as a Muslim symbol\". Some conservative Muslims realized that their resolutions did not have any effect on Ustasha regime, so they gave up hopes that such regime would protect interest of the Muslims. In August 1942 they established the Committee for National Salvation and sent a petition to Hitler asking for \"a region of Bosnia\" under direct German patronage, supporting their request with the racial arguments. They also asked Hitler to provide weapons for a Bosnian guard as nucleus of the army of \"region of Bosnia\" and that request pleased Heinrich Himmler and group of SS officers who already had plans to establish separate SS-Division composed of Muslims. That plan was implemented in 1943 when the 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (1st Croatian) was established.\n\nYugoslav socialist-era historians emphasized that Muslim signatories criticized atrocities without attacking Ustaša's intention to exterminate groups of people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8352812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8352812", "title": "Robert Dudley Edwards", "text": "Robert Dudley Edwards\n\nRobert Walter Dudley Edwards (4 June 1909 – 5 June 1988) was an Irish historian.\n\nRobert Walter Dudley Edwards, known to his friends as Robin and his students as 'Dudley' was born in Dublin. His father was Walter Dudley Edwards, a journalist who came to Ireland with his wife, Bridget Teresa MacInerney from Clare, and became a civil servant. His mother was a supporter of women's rights and Dudley recalled that he had a 'Votes for Women' flag on his pram. Robert's mother was a suffragette and a member of Cumann na mBan, a women's organisation designed to support the Irish Volunteers. Members of Cumann na mBan gathered intelligence, transported arms, nursed wounded men, provided safe houses, and organised support for IRA men in prison. Educated first at the Catholic University School, Robert moved to St. Enda's School (a school set up by one of the Irish revolutionary 1916 leaders, Pádraig Pearse) after the 1916 rising, and then Synge Street CBS, finally returning to the Catholic University School. In his final exams he failed French and Irish but gained first place in Ireland in history. In 1933, Edwards married Sheila O'Sullivan, a folklorist and teacher. They had three children: Mary Dudley Edwards a mother of two, a teacher, rights activist and a really great laugher, Ruth Dudley Edwards, a historian, crime novelist, journalist and broadcaster, and Owen Dudley Edwards, a historian at the University of Edinburgh. Sheila died in April 1985. Robert Dudley Edwards died in 1988 in St. Vincent's Hospital after a short illness.\n\nIn University College Dublin, Edwards was auditor of the Literary and Historical Society, gained a first-class degree in history in 1929 followed by a first class master's degree in 1931 with the National University of Ireland prize. He carried out postgraduate work at the University of London and earned his PhD in 1933, published in 1935 as \"Church and State in Tudor Ireland\". Along with Theo Moody he founded the Irish Historical Society in 1936, and its journal \"Irish Historical Studies\" was first published in 1938.\n\nIn 1937 he was awarded a DLitt by the National University of Ireland and in 1939 was appointed to a statutory lectureship in Modern Irish History at University College Dublin. He succeeded Mary Hayden to the Chair of Modern Irish History in 1944, which he held until he retired in 1979. His contribution to the discipline of History in Ireland was substantial, and included the setting up of University College Dublin Archives Department, now part of the School of History and Archives.\n\nThe introduction to David Edwards' book Age of Atrocity records how the leading Irish history journal, Irish Historical Studies (edited by Dudley Edwards and TW Moody), for the first half-century and more of its existence, systematically avoided the theme of violence, killing and atrocity during the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25928875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25928875", "title": "Suzanna W. Miles", "text": "Suzanna W. Miles\n\nSuzanna ('Sue') Whitelaw Miles (Mount Carroll, Illinois, June 7, 1922 – Boston, April 10, 1966) was an American ethnohistorian, anthropologist and archaeologist. Miles was known for her work among the Maya peoples of the North-western Guatemalan highlands, her analyses of early-colonial sources on Pre-Hispanic Maya culture and society (particularly her study of 16th-century Poqom social structure), and her pioneering studies of pre-Columbian Maya civilization urban environments and settlement patterns.\n\nMiles' education began in her hometown of Mount Carroll, where during a prolonged childhood illness, her grandfather encouraged her to exercise her intellect. She began her undergraduate studies at Shimer College (1941-1942), which was then a women's junior college and located in Mount Carroll. She finished her degree at nearby Beloit College (1942-1943), and continued to the University of Chicago, where she completed her MA in 1948. From 1945 to 1947, she was the Curator of Archeology and Ethnology for the State Historical Society of Wisconsin. After teaching for a time at the University of Wisconsin, she completed her Ph.D. in anthropology at Radcliffe College in 1955. Her groundbreaking doctoral dissertation, \"The Sixteenth-Century Pokom-Maya: A Documentary Analysis of Social Structure and Archaeological Setting\", was published in book form by the American Philosophical Society in 1957.\n\nMiles also undertook work for the Bollingen Foundation, particularly the translation of Las Casas's 'Historia de las Indias', a project that stranded because of the loss of her manuscripts. Her obituarist, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, wrote concerning these and other unfinished projects, that \"It is unlikely that anyone else can continue the projects she had begun, for she relied strongly on a phenomenal memory, composing an entire thesis in her mind before putting anything down on paper, and her notes probably do not reflect the knowledge that she had acquired. This will be a serious loss to all Maya scholars.\" \n\nMost of Miles' career was spent in Guatemala, where she became the first woman to reach the highest professorial rank of \"catedrática\" in anthropology, while at the Universidad de San Carlos in her final years. Having returned from Guatemala because of a developing illness, she went to Boston for treatment, where she died a year later at the age of 43. She lies buried at Oak Hill Cemetery, Mt. Carroll, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "543789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543789", "title": "Tenth Crusade (CounterPunch)", "text": "Tenth Crusade (CounterPunch)\n\nThe Tenth Crusade is a rhetorical device used by Alexander Cockburn in 2002 that built an analogy between the US-led War on Terrorism and the historical Crusades.\n\nThe word \"crusade\" was used by U.S. President George W. Bush first on the day of the September 11, 2001 attacks, quoted below, and on the national day of mourning which honored the death of the more than 3,000 victims of the attacks. He said that \"this crusade, this war on terrorism is going to take a while.\" The use of this figure of speech was criticized in Europe, and Arabic-speaking countries. Supporters of the President's usage of \"crusade\" argue that from context Bush had used the word in a military, non-religious sense, such as \"The Great Crusade\" which was the phrase used by General Dwight D. Eisenhower to describe the D-Day invasion of Europe to the Allied troops in his order of the day broadcast.\n\nThey point to many modern dictionaries which define crusade (not capitalized) to include any vigorous action aimed at achieving a particular noble goal. However, particularly in predominantly Muslim parts of the world, the term crusade produces the same sort of negative reaction as the term \"jihad\" does in much of the West.\n\nIn the September 7, 2002 issue of \"CounterPunch\", columnist Alexander Cockburn authored an opinion column titled \"The Tenth Crusade\" in which he numbered the War on Terrorism to follow nine medieval Crusades between 1095 and 1272, omitting from his count the Alexandrian Crusade of 1365 and the Crusade of Nicopolis of 1396. Cockburn is thus usually credited with coining the term, which is almost exclusively used by critics of the US-led operations.\n\nIn a \"Newsday\" article issued December 3, 2003, political commentator James Pinkerton offered a more positive interpretation of the crusading analogy. Counting eight crusading expeditions between 1096 and 1270, and characterizing these as \"defensive wars\", he also likened three intermediate \"Christian invasions\" of the Middle East to \"latter-day Crusades\", nominating Napoleon's invasion of Egypt in 1798 as a \"Ninth Crusade\", the British occupation of Egypt in 1882 as a \"Tenth Crusade\", and the British and French mandates after World War I as an \"Eleventh Crusade\". However, Pinkerton's renumbering of the War on Terrorism as the \"Twelfth Crusade\" has been overshadowed by references to the title of the Cockburn column.\n\nMax Fisher in 2014 argued that Pope Francis comments supporting possible military action against ISIS constituted a call for a tenth crusade.\n\nU.S. President George W. Bush, from a press conference upon arrival at the South Lawn of the White House, September 16, 2001:\nUS President George W. Bush, from a rally for the troops in Alaska, February 16, 2002:\nAlexander Cockburn, \"The Tenth Crusade,\" \"Counterpunch\", September 7, 2002:\nJames Pinkerton, \"Century In, Century Out - It's Crusade Time,\" \"Newsday\", December 4, 2003:\nIn August 2001 \"The Philadelphia Trumpet\", a Protestant magazine, published article \"The Last Crusade\" with opening lines \"Most people think the crusades for Jerusalem are a thing of the past—over forever. They are wrong. Preparations are being made for a final crusade, and it will be the bloodiest of all!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3952944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952944", "title": "The Geographical Pivot of History", "text": "The Geographical Pivot of History\n\n\"The Geographical Pivot of History\" is an article submitted by Halford John Mackinder in 1904 to the Royal Geographical Society that advances his heartland theory. In this article, Mackinder extended the scope of geopolitical analysis to encompass the entire globe.\n\nAccording to Mackinder, the Earth's land surface was divisible into:\n\nThe Heartland lay at the centre of the world island, stretching from the Volga to the Yangtze and from the Himalayas to the Arctic. Mackinder's Heartland was the area then ruled by the Russian Empire and after that by the Soviet Union, minus the Kamchatka Peninsula region, which is located in the easternmost part of Russia, near the Aleutian Islands and Kurile islands.\n\nLater, in 1919, Mackinder summarised his theory as:\n\nAny power which controlled the World-Island would control well over 50% of the world's resources. The Heartland's size and central position made it the key to controlling the World-Island.\n\nThe vital question was how to secure control for the Heartland. This question may seem pointless, since in 1904 the Russian Empire had ruled most of the area from the Volga to Eastern Siberia for centuries. But throughout the nineteenth century:\n\nMackinder held that effective political domination of the Heartland by a single power had been unattainable in the past because:\n\nHe outlined the following ways in which the Heartland might become a springboard for global domination in the twentieth century (Sempa, 2000):\nThe combined empire's large East Asian coastline would also provide the potential for it to become a major sea power. Mackinder's \"Who rules East Europe commands the Heartland ...\" does not cover this scenario, probably because the previous 2 scenarios were seen as the major risks of the nineteenth century and the early 1900s.\n\nOne of Mackinder's personal objectives was to warn Britain that its traditional reliance on sea power would become a weakness as improved land transport opened up the Heartland for invasion and / or industrialisation (Sempa, 2000).\n\nMackinder identified the geopolitical nightmare that was to haunt the world's two sea powers during the first half of the twentieth century—Great Britain and, later the United States.\n\nSigns of Mackinder's Heartland Theory can be found in the works of geopolitician Dimitri Kitsikis, particularly in his \"Intermediate Region\" model. There is a significant geographical overlap between the Heartland or \"Pivot Area\" and the Intermediate Region, with the exception of Germany-Prussia and north-eastern China, which Kitsikis excludes from the Intermediate Region. Mackinder, on the other hand, excludes North Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East from the Heartland. The reason for this difference is that Mackinder's model is primarily geo-strategic, while Kitsikis' model is geo-civilizational. However, the roles of both the Intermediate Region and the Heartland are regarded by their respective authors as being pivotal in the shaping of world history.\n\nK. S. Gadzhev, in his book \"Vvedenie v geopolitiku\" (\"Introduction to Geopolitics\") raises a series of objections to Mackinder's Heartland to start with that the significance physiography is given there for political strategy is a form of geographical determinism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2672192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672192", "title": "Thraco-Cimmerian", "text": "Thraco-Cimmerian\n\nThraco-Cimmerian is a historiographical and archaeological term, composed of the names of the Thracians and the Cimmerians. It refers to 8th to 7th century BC cultures that are linked in Eastern Central Europe and in the area west of the Black Sea.\n\nPaul Reinecke in 1925 postulated a North-Thracian-Cimmerian cultural sphere (\"nordthrakisch-kimmerischer Kulturkreis\") overlapping with the younger Hallstatt culture of the Eastern Alps. The term Thraco-Cimmerian (\"thrako-kimmerisch\") was first introduced by Romanian archaeologist and historian Ion Nestor in the 1930s. It reflects a \"migrationist\" tendency in the archaeology of the first half of the 20th century to equate material archaeology with historical ethnicities. Nestor intended to suggest that there was a historical migration of Cimmerians into Eastern Europe from the area of the former Srubna culture, perhaps triggered by the Scythian expansion, at the beginning of the European Iron Age. This \"migrationist\" or \"invasionist\" theory, assuming that the development of the mature Hallstatt culture (Hallstatt C) was triggered by a Cimmerian invasion, was the scholarly mainstream until the 1980s. \nIn the 1980s and 1990s, more systematic studies of the artefacts revealed a more gradual development over the period covering the 9th to 7th centuries, so that the term \"Thraco-Cimmerian\" is now rather used by convention and does not necessarily imply a direct connection with either the Thracians or the Cimmerians.\n\nArchaeologically, Thraco-Cimmerian artifacts consist of grave goods and hoards. The artifacts labelled Thraco-Cimmerian all belong to a category of upper class, luxury objects, like weapons, horse tacks and jewelry, and they are recovered only from a small percentage of graves of the period. They are metal (usually bronze) items, particularly parts of horse tacks, found in a late Urnfield context, but without local Urnfield predecessors for their type. They appear rather to spread from the Koban culture of the Caucasus and northern Georgia, which together with the Srubna culture, blends into the 9th to 7th centuries pre-Scythian Chernogorovka and Novocherkassk cultures. By the 7th century, Thraco-Cimmerian objects are spread further west over most of Eastern and Central Europe, locations of finds reaching to Denmark and eastern Prussia in the north and to Lake Zürich in the west. Together with these bronze artifacts, earliest Iron items appear, ushering in the European Iron Age, corresponding to the Proto-Celtic expansion from the Hallstatt culture. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8656556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8656556", "title": "Timeline of Serbian history", "text": "Timeline of Serbian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Serbian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Serbia and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Serbia. See also the list of Serbian monarchs and list of Presidents of Serbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "6019355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6019355", "title": "Timeline of the Beslan school siege", "text": "Timeline of the Beslan school siege\n\nThe Beslan school hostage crisis (also referred to as the Beslan school siege or Beslan Massacre) began when armed Muslim terrorists took more than 1200 school children and adults hostage on 1 September 2004, at School Number One (SNO) in the Russian town of Beslan in North Ossetia.\n\nAll times in local Moscow Time Zone, UTC+3.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45522", "title": "Toltec", "text": "Toltec\n\nThe Toltec culture () is an archaeological Mesoamerican culture that dominated a state centered in Tula, Hidalgo, Mexico in the early post-classic period of Mesoamerican chronology (ca. 900–1168 CE). The later Aztec culture saw the Toltecs as their intellectual and cultural predecessors and described Toltec culture emanating from \"Tōllān\" (Nahuatl for Tula) as the epitome of civilization; in the Nahuatl language the word \"Tōltēcatl\" (singular) or \"Tōltēcah\" (plural) came to take on the meaning \"artisan\". The Aztec oral and pictographic tradition also described the history of the Toltec Empire, giving lists of rulers and their exploits.\n\nAmong modern scholars it is a matter of debate whether the Aztec narratives of Toltec history should be given credence as descriptions of actual historical events. While all scholars acknowledge that there is a large mythological part of the narrative, some maintain that by using a critical comparative method some level of historicity can be salvaged from the sources. Others maintain that continued analysis of the narratives as sources of actual history is futile and hinders access to actual knowledge of the culture of Tula de Allende.\n\nOther controversies relating to the Toltecs include the question of how best to understand the reasons behind the perceived similarities in architecture and iconography between the archaeological site of Tula and the Maya site of Chichén Itzá. No consensus has yet emerged about the degree or direction of influence between these two sites. Another source of controversy is that New Age authors such as Carlos Castaneda and Don Miguel Ruiz say that they represent \"Toltec\" teachings. For this tradition of knowledge see Toltec (Castaneda).\n\nSome archaeologists, such as Richard Diehl, argue for the existence of a Toltec archaeological horizon characterized by certain stylistic traits associated with Tula, Hidalgo and extending to other cultures and polities in Mesoamerica. Traits associated with this horizon are: The Mixteca-Puebla style of iconography, Tohil plumbate ceramic ware and Silho or X-Fine Orange Ware ceramics. The presence of stylistic traits associated with Tula in Chichén Itzá is also taken as evidence for a Toltec horizon. Especially the nature of interaction between Tula and Chichén Itzá has been controversial with scholars arguing for either military conquest of Chichén Itzá by Toltecs, Chichén Itzá establishing Tula as a colony or only loose connections between the two. The existence of any meaning of the Mixteca-Puebla art style has also been questioned.\n\nA contrary viewpoint is argued in a 2003 study by Michael E. Smith and Lisa Montiel who compare the archaeological record related to Tula Hidalgo to those of the polities centered in Teotihuacan and Tenochtitlan. They conclude that relative to the influence exerted in Mesoamerica by Teotihuacan and Tenochtitlan, Tula's influence on other cultures was negligible and was probably not deserving of being defined as an empire, but more of a kingdom. While Tula does have the urban complexity expected of an imperial capital, its influence and dominance was not very far reaching. Evidence for Tula's participation in extensive trade networks has been uncovered; for example, the remains of a large obsidian workshop.\n\nThe debate about the nature of the Toltec culture goes back to the late 19th century. Mesoamericanist scholars such as Veitia, Manuel Orozco y Berra, Charles Etienne Brasseur de Bourbourg, and Francisco Clavigero all read the Aztec chronicles and believed them to be realistic historic descriptions of a pan-Mesoamerican empire based at Tula, Hidalgo. This historicist view was first challenged by Daniel Garrison Brinton who argued that the \"Toltecs\" as described in the Aztec sources were merely one of several Nahuatl-speaking city-states in the Postclassic period, and not a particularly influential one at that. He attributed the Aztec view of the Toltecs to the \"tendency of the human mind to glorify the good old days\", and the confounding of the place of Tollan with the myth of the struggle between Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca. Désiré Charnay, the first archaeologist to work at Tula, Hidalgo, defended the historicist views based on his impression of the Toltec capital, and was the first to note similarities in architectural styles between Tula and Chichén Itza. This led him to posit the theory that Chichén Itzá had been violently taken over by a Toltec military force under the leadership of Kukulcan. Following Charnay the term \"Toltec\" has since been associated with the influx of certain Central Mexican cultural traits into the Maya sphere of dominance that took place in the late Classic and early Postclassic periods; the Postclassic Mayan civilizations of Chichén Itzá, Mayapán and the Guatemalan highlands have been referred to as \"Toltecized\" or \"Mexicanized\" Mayas.\n\nThe historicist school of thought persisted well in to the 20th century, represented in the works of scholars such as David Carrasco, Miguel León Portilla, Nigel Davies and H. B. Nicholson, which all held the Toltecs to have been an actual ethnic group. This school of thought connected the \"Toltecs\" to the archaeological site of Tula, which was taken to be the Tollan of Aztec myth. This tradition assumes that much of central Mexico was dominated by a Toltec Empire between the 10th and 12th century AD. The Aztecs referred to several Mexican city states as Tollan, \"Place of Reeds\", such as \"Tollan Cholollan\". Archaeologist Laurette Sejourné, followed by the historian Enrique Florescano, have argued that the \"original\" Tollan was probably Teotihuacán. Florescano adds that the Mayan sources refer to Chichén Itzá when talking about the mythical place Zuyua (Tollan).\n\nMany historicists such as H. B. Nicholson (2001 (1957)) and Nigel Davies (1977) were fully aware that the Aztec chronicles were a mixture of mythical and historical accounts; this led them to try to separate the two by applying a comparative approach to the varying Aztec narratives. For example, they seek to discern between the deity Quetzalcoatl and a Toltec ruler often referred to as Topiltzin Ce Acatl Quetzalcoatl.\n\nIn recent decades the historicist position has fallen out of favor for a more critical and interpretive approach to the historicity of the Aztec mythical accounts based on the original approach of Brinton. This approach applies a different understanding of the word Toltec to the interpretation of the Aztec sources, interpreting it as largely a mythical and philosophical construct by either the Aztecs or Mesoamericans generally that served to symbolize the might and sophistication of several civilizations during the Mesoamerican Postclassic period.\n\nScholars such as Michel Graulich (2002) and Susan D. Gillespie (1989) maintained that the difficulties in salvaging historic data from the Aztec accounts of Toltec history are too great to overcome. For example, there are two supposed Toltec rulers identified with Quetzalcoatl: the first ruler and founder of the Toltec dynasty and the last ruler, who saw the end of the Toltec glory and was forced into humiliation and exile. The first is described as a valiant triumphant warrior, but the last as a feeble and self-doubting old man. This caused Graulich and Gillespie to suggest that the general Aztec cyclical view of time, where events repeated themselves at the end and beginning of cycles or eras was being inscribed into the historical record by the Aztecs, making it futile to attempt to distinguish between a historical Topiltzin Ce Acatl and a Quetzalcoatl deity. Graulich argued that the Toltec era is best considered the fourth of the five Aztec mythical \"Suns\" or ages, the one immediately preceding the fifth sun of the Aztec people, presided over by Quetzalcoatl. This caused Graulich to consider that the only possibly historical data in the Aztec chronicles are the names of some rulers and possibly some of the conquests ascribed to them.\n\nFurthermore, among the Nahuan peoples the word \"Tolteca\" was synonymous with artist, artisan or wise man, and \"\"toltecayotl\".\" \"Toltecness\" meant art, culture, civilization, and urbanism and was seen as the opposite of \"Chichimecayotl\" (\"Chichimecness\"), which symbolized the savage, nomadic state of peoples who had not yet become urbanized. This interpretation argues that any large urban center in Mesoamerica could be referred to as \"Tollan\" and its inhabitants as Toltecs – and that it was common practice among ruling lineages in Postclassic Mesoamerica to strengthen claims to power by claiming Toltec ancestry. Mesoamerican migration accounts often state that Tollan was ruled by Quetzalcoatl (or \"Kukulkan\" in Yucatec and \"Q'uq'umatz\" in K'iche'), a godlike mythical figure who was later sent into exile from Tollan and went on to found a new city elsewhere in Mesoamerica. Claims of Toltec ancestry and a ruling dynasty founded by Quetzalcoatl have been made by such diverse civilizations as the Aztec, the K'iche' and the Itza' Mayas.\n\nWhile the skeptical school of thought does not deny that cultural traits of a seemingly central Mexican origin have diffused into a larger area of Mesoamerica, it tends to ascribe this to the dominance of Teotihuacán in the Classic period and the general diffusion of cultural traits within the region. Recent scholarship, then, does not see Tula, Hidalgo as the capital of the Toltecs of the Aztec accounts. Rather, it takes \"Toltec\" to mean simply an inhabitant of Tula during its apogee. Separating the term \"Toltec\" from those of the Aztec accounts, it attempts to find archaeological clues to the ethnicity, history and social organization of the inhabitants of Tula.\n\n"}
{"id": "35583742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35583742", "title": "Wolfgang Behringer", "text": "Wolfgang Behringer\n\nWolfgang Behringer (born July 17, 1956 in Munich) is a German historian specialising in the witchcraft beliefs of Early Modern Europe. He has worked at both the University of Munich and the University of Bonn as well as published multiple books. He is the author of the book \"Shaman of Oberstdorf\". He also authored \"A Cultural History of Climate\". First published in German in 2000, it was translated into English in 2009. Since 2003 Behringer teaches at Saarland University.\n\nWolfgang Behringer's book, \"A Cultural History of Climate\" makes numerous negative references to climate scientists, which has resulted in concerns of factual inaccuracies and possible bias. For example, page 14 of the original version of the book in German depicts a cartoon from controversial cartoonist Götz Weidenroth depicting climate scientists financially profiting from speaking up about the anthropogenic causes of climate change. On page 104 he makes reference to 3 °C temperature increase in springtime temperatures in the early middle ages (1170 to 1310) in Europe and then compares this to an apparently lower rise in temperatures between 1891 and 1960. Without providing references this seems to be cherry picking of the data in odrder to make an unsubstantiated claim. Furthermore, on page 288 Behringer makes the claim that climate change has been historically good for humanity while appealing for calm. He claims that we will simply adapt to a changing climate without citing any scientific sources.\n"}
{"id": "1098619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098619", "title": "Ōei", "text": "Ōei\n\n\n\n\n"}
