{"id": "22507341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22507341", "title": "2009 Lüderitz oil spill", "text": "2009 Lüderitz oil spill\n\nThe 2009 Lüderitz oil spill began in April 2009 off the coast of Lüderitz, Namibia. The oil spill directly affected 171 African penguins, with many more possibly threatened. The oil spill is in the area where the fishing trawler \"Meob Bay\" sank in June 2002, killing 19 seamen. The boat sank after a rope got caught in the propeller, which then detached causing water to flood into the engine room. However, an inspection of the site where the vessel had sunk showed that the wreck was not the source of the oil; the source of the spill could not be found but is thought to be bunker oil that was released by a large vessel passing through Namibian waters. In terms of wildlife affected, it was the largest spill in Namibian history according to local residents of Lüderitz.\n"}
{"id": "20801072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20801072", "title": "Al Zour Refinery", "text": "Al Zour Refinery\n\nThe Al Zour Refinery is an oil refinery under construction in Kuwait, a member of OPEC. The Kuwait National Petroleum Company (KNPC) first released plans to build what would have been the country's fourth oil refinery in May 2006 before construction was postponed in March 2008 due to political opposition. Two years later, however, the government re-approved construction and Kuwait Integrated Petroleum Industries Company was created to manage its operations after 2019.\n\nThe Kuwait National Petroleum Company released plans to construct the refinery in July 2007. In May 2008, it awarded construction contracts; the largest contracted was granted to a consortium of Japan's JGC Corporation and South Korea's GS Engineering & Construction, covering the installation of six distillation and atmospheric residue desulphurisation units, and diesel, naphtha, and kerosene hydrotreating plants. Korea's SK Engineering & Construction was charged with constructing the hydrogen plants, as well as the compression and sulphur recovery units; Daelim Industrial was to construct storage tanks; and Hyundai Engineering and Construction was to be responsible for the marine works. U.S. engineering and construction firm Fluor Corporation was awarded the offsites and utilities contract. KNPC announced that it would be operational in 2012 and that it planned on spending approximately $14 billion on the project. The refinery is expected to have a capacity of , which would have made it the largest refinery in the Middle East.\n\nIn March 2009, the Kuwaiti government informed the contractors to halt construction, citing a drop in oil prices. Some investment analysts predicted the project's cancellation as early as December 2008. Furthermore, the project encountered political opposition by lawmakers who claimed that the government had not consulted the Central Tenders Committee before awarding contracts to foreign companies.\n\nHowever, in June 2011, the Supreme Petroleum Council—Kuwait's oil agency—re-approved construction of the refinery in Al Ahmadi, Kuwait. Construction had been halted due to financial concerns and political wrangling, but the Oil Minister affirmed that Kuwait was indeed moving forward with the refinery that would be able to process 615,000 barrels of oil per day. The estimated cost is $14.5 billion, or 4 billion dinar. As of May 2012 Kuwait's three existing refineries produce 930,000 barrels per day.\n\nThe Kuwait National Petroleum Company announced that it would relaunch a tender in June 2012. The revised project timeline aims for completion in June 2019. The majority of EPC contracts were issued to Fluor, Daewoo, Hyundai Heavy Industries, Tecnicas Reunidas, Sinopec, Hanwha Engineering and Construction, SK Engineering, and Saipem, amongst others. Kuwait Integrated Petroleum Industries Company was created to manage the operations.\n"}
{"id": "28249207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28249207", "title": "Alepu", "text": "Alepu\n\nAlepu is a swamp on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, situated within Burgas Province, 6.5 kilometers south of the resort town of Sozopol. It is long and up to wide, with an area of . Since 1986, the area has been designated a nature reserve due to the large variety of rare and protected water birds who live there, and has sustained significant interest from local and foreign ornithologists. The sand dunes adjacent to the reserve have also been designated as protected. Because of the lax protection from the local authorities, illegal hunting and fishing remain a threat to the reserve. It forms part of the Ropotamo Important Bird Area.\n\nThe beach across from Alepu is known for its scenic beauty and aquamarine water. Up until the building of the Saint Thomas resort complex in 2009, it was known as one of the few truly wild beaches in Bulgaria.\n\nAlepu Rocks in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica are named after the Alepu locality.\n"}
{"id": "7078310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7078310", "title": "Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy", "text": "Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy\n\nAngle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), is a direct experimental technique to observe the distribution of the electrons (more precisely, the density of single-particle electronic excitations) in the reciprocal space of solids. The technique is a refinement of ordinary photoemission spectroscopy, studying photoemission of electrons from a sample achieved usually by illumination with soft X-rays. ARPES is one of the most direct methods of studying the electronic structure of the surface of solids.\n\nARPES gives information on the direction, speed and scattering process of valence electrons in the sample being studied (usually a solid). This means that information can be gained on both the energy and momentum of an electron, resulting in detailed information on band dispersion and Fermi surface.\n\nThe technique is also known as ARUPS (angle-resolved ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy) when using ultraviolet light (as opposed to X-rays) to generate photoemission. \n\nBand mapping, in condensed matter physics refers to the process which allows for detection (and measurement) of photoelectrons emitted from an observed surface at different emission angles. This process is employed in ARPES. ARPES is used to investigate the electronic structure of solids, solid surfaces and interfaces.\n\nBy employing the band mapping process, several fundamental physical properties of a solid can be determined. The properties which can be determined using this process include (but are not limited to) the following:\n\n\nThe electronic states in the solid are described by energy bands, which have associated energy band dispersions E(k) — energy eigenvalues for delocalized electrons in a crystalline medium according to Bloch's theorem. \n\nBand mapping has an advantage over optical spectroscopy. In the latter, only the energy-band separations at various optical critical points in k-space — energy between the initial and final states — are determined. ARPES, on the other hand, provides information about the absolute location of energy bands at different values of k relative to the Fermi level (E).\n\nFrom conservation of energy, we have\nwhere\nPhoton momentum is often neglected because of its relatively small contribution compared with electron momentum.\n\nIn the typical case, where the surface of the sample is smooth, translational symmetry requires that the component of electron momentum in the plane of the sample be conserved:\nwhere\n\nHowever, the normal component of electron momentum formula_9 might not be conserved. The typical way of dealing with this is to assume that the final in-crystal states are free-electron-like, in which case one has\nin which formula_11 denotes the band depth from vacuum, including electron work function formula_12; formula_11 can be determined by examining only the electrons emitted perpendicular to the surface, measuring their kinetic energy as a function of incident photon energy.\n\nThe equations for energy and momentum can be solved to determine the dispersion relation between the binding energy, formula_4, and the wave vector, formula_15, of the electron.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32812028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32812028", "title": "Aura Hydroelectric Power Station", "text": "Aura Hydroelectric Power Station\n\nAura Power Station (\"Aura kraftverk\") is a hydroelectric power station located in the municipality Sunndal in Møre og Romsdal, Norway. It operates at an installed capacity of , with an average annual production of 1,776 GWh.\n"}
{"id": "32812312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32812312", "title": "Aurland Hydroelectric Power Station", "text": "Aurland Hydroelectric Power Station\n\nThe Aurland Power Station is a hydroelectric power station located in the municipality Aurland in Sogn og Fjordane, Norway, owned by E-CO Energi. It consists of five facilities, Aurland I, Aurland II, Aurland III, Reppa and Vangen, and operates at a combined installed capacity of , with an average annual production of 2,869 GWh. The construction works were initiated in 1969, and the first production from Aurland I started in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "4566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4566", "title": "Baku", "text": "Baku\n\nBaku ( , ; , ) is the capital and largest city of Azerbaijan, as well as the largest city on the Caspian Sea and of the Caucasus region. Baku is located below sea level, which makes it the lowest lying national capital in the world and also the largest city in the world located below sea level. It is located on the southern shore of the Absheron Peninsula, alongside the Bay of Baku. At the beginning of 2009, Baku's urban population was estimated at just over two million people. Officially, about 25 percent of all inhabitants of the country live in Baku's metropolitan area. Baku is the sole metropolis in Azerbaijan.\n\nBaku is divided into twelve administrative Baku's (raions) and 48 townships. Among these are the townships on the islands of the Baku Archipelago, and the town of Oil Rocks built on stilts in the Caspian Sea, away from Baku. The Inner City of Baku, along with the Shirvanshah's Palace and Maiden Tower, were inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2000. According to the Lonely Planet's ranking, Baku is also among the world's top ten destinations for urban nightlife.\n\nThe city is the scientific, cultural, and industrial center of Azerbaijan. Many sizeable Azerbaijani institutions have their headquarters there. The Baku International Sea Trade Port is capable of handling two million tons of general and dry bulk cargoes per year. In recent years, Baku has become an important venue for international events. It hosted the 57th Eurovision Song Contest in 2012, the 2015 European Games, 4th Islamic Solidarity Games, the F1 Azerbaijan Grand Prix since 2016, and will host UEFA Euro 2020. The city was among the selected candidates for Expo 2025 against Yekaterinburg, Russia and Osaka, Japan. \n\nThe city is renowned for its harsh winds, which is reflected in its nickname, the \"City of Winds\".\n\nBaku is derived from the Persian name of the city باد-کوبه \"Bād-kube\", meaning \"Wind-pounded city\", in which \"bād\" means \"wind\" and \"kube\" is rooted in the verb کوبیدن \"kubidan\", \"to pound\", thus referring to a place where wind is strong and pounding. Indeed, the city is renowned for its fierce winter snow storms and harsh winds. This is also reflected in the city's nickname as the \"City of Winds\". A less probable folk etymology explains the name as deriving from \"Baghkuy\", meaning \"God's town\". \"Baga\" (now \"بغ\" \"bagh\") and \"kuy\" are the Old Persian words for \"god\" and \"town\" respectively; the name \"Baghkuy\" may be compared with \"Baghdād\" (\"God-given\") in which \"dād\" is the Old Persian word for \"give\". Arabic sources refer to the city as \"Baku\", \"Bakukh\", \"Bakuya\", and \"Bakuye\", all of which seem to come from a Persian name.\n\nDuring Soviet rule, the city was spelled in Cyrillic as \"Баку\" in Russian and «Бакы» in Azerbaijani. Nowadays, when Azerbaijan is using the Latin alphabet, it is spelled as \"Bakı\".\n\nAround 100,000 years ago, the territory of modern Baku and Absheron was savanna with rich flora and fauna. Traces of human settlement go back to the Stone age. From the Bronze age there have been rock carvings discovered near Bayil, and a bronze figure of a small fish discovered in the territory of the Old City. These have led some to suggest the existence of a Bronze Age settlement within the city's territory. Near Nardaran, in a place called Umid Gaya, a prehistoric observatory was discovered, where on the rock the images of sun and various constellations are carved together with a primitive astronomic table. Further archeological excavations revealed various prehistoric settlements, native temples, statues and other artifacts within the territory of the modern city and around it.\n\nIn the 1st century CE, the Romans organized two Caucasian campaigns and reached Baku. Near the city, in Gobustan, Roman inscriptions dating from 84–96 CE were discovered. This is one of the earliest written evidences for Baku.\n\nBaku was the realm of the Shirvanshahs during the 8th century CE. The city frequently came under assault of the Khazars and (starting from the 10th century) the Rus. Shirvanshah Akhsitan I built a navy in Baku and successfully repelled another Rus assault in 1170. After a devastating earthquake struck Shamakhi, the capital of Shirvan, Shirvanshah’s court moved to Baku in 1191.\nThe Shirvan era greatly influenced Baku and the remainder of what is present-day Azerbaijan. Between the 12th and 14th centuries, massive fortifications were undertaken in Baku and the surrounding towns. The Maiden Tower, the Ramana Tower, the Nardaran Fortress, the Shagan Castle, the Mardakan Castle, the Round Castle and also the famous Sabayil Castle on the island of the Bay of Baku was built during this period. The city walls of Baku were also rebuilt and strengthened.\n\nBy the early 16th century Baku's wealth and strategic position attracted the focus of its larger neighbors; in the previous two centuries, it was under the rule of the in Iran-centred Kara Koyunlu and Ak Koyunlu. The fall of the Ak Koyunlu brought the city immediately into the sphere of the newly formed Iranian Safavid dynasty, led by king (\"shah\") Ismail I (r. 1501–1524). Ismail I laid siege to Baku in 1501 and captured it; he allowed the Shirvanshahs to remain in power, under Safavid suzerainty. His successor, king Tahmasp I (r. 1524–1576), completely removed the Shirvanshahs from power, and made Baku a part of the Shirvan province. Baku remained as an integral part of his empire and the successive Iranian dynasties to come for the next centuries, until the irrevocable cession in the first half of the 19th century. The House of Shirvan, who ruled Baku since the 9th century, was extinguished in the course of the Safavid rule.\n\nAt this time the city was enclosed within the lines of strong walls, which were washed by the sea on one side and protected by a wide trench on land. The Ottomans briefly gained control over Baku as a result of the Ottoman-Safavid War of 1578–1590; by 1607, it was again put under Iranian control. In 1604 Baku fortress was destroyed by Shah Abbas I (r. 1588-1629).\nBaku is noted for being a focal point for traders from all across the world during the Early modern period, commerce was active and the area was prosperous. Notably, traders from the Indian subcontinent established themselves in the region. These Indian traders built the Ateshgah of Baku during 17th–18th centuries; the temple was used as a Hindu, Sikh, and Parsi place of worship.\n\nIn the wake of the demise of the Safavids, the Russians took advantage of the situation and invaded; the Safavids were forced to cede Baku to Russia for a few years. By 1730, the situation had deteriorated for the Russians; the successes of Nader Shah (r. 1736–1747) forced them to make an agreement near Ganja on 10 March 1735, ceding the city and all other conquered territories in the Caucasus back to Iran.\n\nThe eruption of instability following Nader Shah's death gave rise to the various Caucasian khanates. The semi-autonomous Persian-ruled Baku Khanate was one of these. It was ruled by Mirza Muhammed Khan but soon became a dependency of the much stronger Quba Khanate. During this time, the population of Baku was small (approximately 5,000), and the economy was ruined as a result of constant warfare.\n\nFrom the late 18th century, Imperial Russia switched to a more aggressive geopolitical stance towards its two neighbors and rivals to the south, namely Iran and the Ottoman Empire. In the spring of 1796, by Catherine II’s order, General Valerian Zubov’s troops started a large campaign against Qajar Persia. Zubov had sent 13,000 men to capture Baku, and it was overrun subsequently without any resistance. On 13 June 1796, a Russian flotilla entered Baku Bay, and a garrison of Russian troops was placed inside the city. Later, however, Pavel I ordered the cessation of the campaign and the withdrawal of Russian forces following his predecessor, Catherine the Great's death. In March 1797, the tsarist troops left Baku and the city became part of Qajar Iran again.\n\nIn 1813, following the Russo-Persian War of 1804–1813, Qajar Iran was forced to sign the Treaty of Gulistan with Russia, which provided for the irrevocable cession of Baku and most of Iran's territories in the North Caucasus and South Caucasus to Russia. During the next and final bout of hostilities between the two, the Russo-Persian War of 1826–1828, Baku was briefly recaptured by the Iranians. However, militarily superior, the Russians ended this war in a victory as well, and the resulting Treaty of Turkmenchay made its inclusion into the Russian Empire definite.\nWhen Baku was occupied by the Russian troops during the war of 1804–13, nearly the entire population of some 8,000 people was ethnic Tat.\n\nDrilling for oil began in the mid-1800s, with the first oil well drilled in the Bibi-Heybat suburb of Baku in 1846. It was mechanically drilled, though a number of hand-dug wells predate it. Large-scale oil exploration started in 1872 when Russian imperial authorities auctioned the parcels of oil-rich land around Baku to private investors. The pioneer of oil extracting from the bottom of the sea was Polish geologist Witold Zglenicki. Soon after that Swiss, British, French, Belgian, German, Swedish and American investors appeared in Baku. Among them were the firms of the Nobel brothers together with the family von Börtzell-Szuch (Carl Knut Börtzell, who also owned the Livadia Palace) and the Rothschild family. An industrial oil belt, better known as Black City, was established near Baku.\n\nProfessor A. V. Williams Jackson of Columbia University wrote in his work \"From Constantinople to the Home of Omar Khayyam\" (1911):\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, half of the oil sold in international markets was being extracted in Baku. The oil boom contributed to the massive growth of Baku. Between 1856 and 1910 Baku's population grew at a faster rate than that of London, Paris or New York.\n\nIn 1917, after the October revolution and amidst the turmoil of World War I and the breakup of the Russian Empire, Baku came under the control of the Baku Commune, which was led by veteran Bolshevik Stepan Shahumyan. Seeking to capitalize on the existing inter-ethnic conflicts, by spring 1918, Bolsheviks inspired and condoned civil warfare in and around Baku. During the infamous March Days, Bolsheviks and Dashnaks seeking to establish control over Baku streets, were faced with armed Azerbaijani groups. The Azerbaijanis suffered a crushing defeat by the united forces of Baku Soviet and were massacred by Dashnak teams in what was called March Days. An estimated 3–12,000 Azerbaijanis were killed in their own capital. After the massacre, on 28 May 1918, the Azerbaijani faction of the Transcaucasian Sejm proclaimed the independence of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (ADR) in Ganja, thereby becoming the first Muslim-majority democratic and secular republic. The newly independent Azerbaijani republic, being unable to defend the independence of the country on their own, asked the Ottoman Empire for military support in accordance with clause 4 of the treaty between the two countries. Shortly after, Azerbaijani forces, with support of the Ottoman Army of Islam led by Nuru Pasha, started their advance onto Baku, eventually capturing the city from the loose coalition of Bolsheviks, Esers, Dashnaks, Mensheviks and British forces under the command of General Lionel Dunsterville on 15 September 1918.\n\nAfter the Battle of Baku, the Azerbaijani irregular troops, with the tacit support of the Turkish command, conducted four days of pillaging and killing of 10–30,000 of the Armenian residents of Baku. This pogrom was known as the September Days. Shortly after this Baku was proclaimed the new capital of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic.\n\nWith Turkey having lost the war by October 1918 they conducted the Armistice of Mudros with the British which meant Baku was to be evacuated. Headed by General William Thomson, British troops of 5,000 soldiers, including parts of Dunsterforce, arrived in Baku on 17 November. Thomson declared himself military governor of Baku and implemented Martial law on the capital until \"the civil power would be strong enough to release the forces from the responsibility to maintain the public order\". British forces left before the end of 1919 having felt they had done so.\n\nThe independence of the Azerbaijani republic was significant but a short-lived chapter. On 28 April 1920, the 11th Red Army invaded Baku and reinstalled the Bolsheviks, making Baku the capital of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nThe city underwent many major changes. As a result, Baku played a great role in many branches of the Soviet life. Since about 1921, the city was headed by Baku City Executive Committee, commonly known in Russian as \"Bakgorispolkom\". Together with Baku Party Committee (known as the \"Baksovet\"), it developed the economic significance of the Caspian metropolis. From 1922 to 1930, Baku was the venue for one of the major Trade fairs of the Soviet Union, serving as a commercial bridgehead to Iran and the Middle East.\n\nBaku's growing importance as a major energy hub remained in sight of the major powers. During World War II and the Nazi German invasion of the southwestern Soviet Union, Baku had become of vital strategic importance. In fact, capturing the oil fields of Baku was one of the ultimate goals of Operation Edelweiss, carried out between May and November 1942. However, the German Army's closest approach to Baku was no closer than some northwest of Baku in November 1942, falling far short of the city's capture before being driven back during the Soviet Operation Little Saturn in mid-December 1942.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Baku embarked on a process of restructuring on a scale unseen in its history. Thousands of buildings from the Soviet period were demolished to make way for a green belt on its shores; parks and gardens were built on the land reclaimed by filling up the beaches of the Baku Bay. Improvements were made in the general cleaning, maintenance, and garbage collection, and these services are now at Western European standards. The city is growing dynamically and developing at full speed on an east-west axis along the shores of the Caspian Sea. Sustainability has become a key factor in future urban development.\n\nBaku is situated on the western coast of Caspian Sea. In the vicinity of the city there are a number of mud volcanoes (Keyraki, Bogkh-bogkha, Lokbatan and others) and salt lakes (Boyukshor, Khodasan and so on).\n\nBaku has a temperate semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification: \"BSk\") with hot and humid summers, cool and occasionally wet winters, and strong winds all year long. However, unlike many other cities with such climate features, Baku does not see extremely hot summers. This is largely because of its northerly latitude and the fact that it is located on a peninsula on the shore of the Caspian Sea. Baku and the Absheron Peninsula on which it is situated, is the most arid part of Azerbaijan (precipitation here is around or less than a year). The majority of the light annual precipitation occurs in seasons other than summer, but none of these seasons are particularly wet.\nDuring Soviet times, Baku with its long hours of sunshine and dry healthy climate, was a vacation destination where citizens could enjoy beaches or relax in now-dilapidated spa complexes overlooking the Caspian Sea. The city's past as a Soviet industrial center has left it as one of the most polluted cities in the world.\n\nAt the same time Baku is noted as a very windy city throughout the year, hence the city's nickname the \"City of Winds\", and gale-force winds, the cold northern wind \"khazri\" and the warm southern wind \"gilavar\" are typical here in all seasons. Indeed, the city is renowned for its fierce winter snow storms and harsh winds.\nThe speed of the \"khazri\" sometimes reaches 144 kph (89 mph), which can cause damage to crops, trees and roof tiles.\n\nThe daily mean temperature in July and August averages , and there is very little rainfall during that season. During summer the \"khazri\" sweeps through, bringing desired coolness. Winter is cool and occasionally wet, with the daily mean temperature in January and February averaging . During winter the \"khazri\" sweeps through, driven by polar air masses; temperatures on the coast frequently drop below freezing and make it feel bitterly cold. Winter snow storms are occasional; snow usually melts within a few days after each snowfall.\n\nToday, Baku is divided into 12 \"rayonlar (sub-rayons)\" (administrative districts) and 5 settlements of city type.\nUntil 1988 Baku had very large Russian, Armenian, and Jewish populations which contributed to cultural diversity and added in various ways (music, literature, architecture and progressive outlook) to Baku's history. With the onset of the Karabakh War and the pogrom against Armenians starting in January 1990, the city's large Armenian population was expelled.\nUnder Communism, the Soviets took over the majority of Jewish property in Baku and Kuba. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijani President Heydar Aliyev returned several synagogues and a Jewish college, nationalized by the Soviets, to the Jewish community. He encouraged the restoration of these buildings and is well liked by the Jews of Azerbaijan. Renovation has begun on seven of the original 11 synagogues, including the Gilah synagogue, built in 1896, and the large Kruei Synagogue.\n\nToday the vast majority of the population of Baku are ethnic Azerbaijanis (more than 90%). When Baku was occupied by the Russian troops during the war of 1804–13, nearly the entire population of some 8,000 people was ethnic Tat. The intensive growth of the population started in the middle of the 19th century when Baku was a small town with a population of about 7,000 people. The population increased again from about 13,000 in the 1860s to 112,000 in 1897 and 215,000 in 1913, making Baku the largest city in the Caucasus region.\n\nBaku has been a cosmopolitan city at certain times during its history, meaning ethnic Azerbaijanis did not constitute the majority of population. In 2003 Baku additionally had 153,400 internally displaced persons and 93,400 refugees.\n\nThe urban landscape of Baku is shaped by many communities. The religion with the largest community of followers is Islam. The majority of the Muslims are Shia Muslims, and the Republic of Azerbaijan has the second highest Shia population percentage in the world after Iran. The city's notable mosques include Juma Mosque, Bibi-Heybat Mosque, Muhammad Mosque and Taza Pir Mosque.\n\nThere are some other faiths practiced among the different ethnic groups within the country. By article 48 of its Constitution, Azerbaijan is a secular state and ensures religious freedom. Religious minorities include Russian Orthodox Christians, Catholic Levantines, Georgian Orthodox Christians, Lutherans, Ashkenazi Jews and Sufi Muslims.\n\nZoroastrianism, although extinct in the city as well as in the rest of the country by the present time, had a long history in Azerbaijan and the Zoroastrian New Year (Nowruz) continues to be the main holiday in the city as well as in the rest of Azerbaijan.\n\nBaku's largest industry is petroleum, and its petroleum exports make it a large contributor to Azerbaijan's balance of payments. The existence of petroleum has been known since the 8th century. In the 10th century, the Arabian traveler, Marudee, reported that both white and black oil were being extracted naturally from Baku. By the 15th century, oil for lamps was obtained from hand-dug surface wells.\nCommercial exploitation began in 1872, and by the beginning of the 20th century the Baku oil fields were the largest in the world. Towards the end of the 20th century much of the onshore petroleum had been exhausted, and drilling had extended into the sea offshore. By the end of the 19th century skilled workers and specialists flocked to Baku. By 1900 the city had more than 3,000 oil wells, of which 2,000 were producing oil at industrial levels. Baku ranked as one of the largest centres for the production of oil industry equipment before World War II. The World War II Battle of Stalingrad was fought to determine who would have control of Baku oil fields. Fifty years before the battle, Baku produced half of the world's oil supply.\n\nCurrently the oil economy of Baku is undergoing a resurgence, with the development of the massive Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli field (Shallow water Gunashli by SOCAR, deeper areas by a consortium led by BP), development of the Shah Deniz gas field, the expansion of the Sangachal Terminal and the construction of the BTC Pipeline.\n\nThe Baku Stock Exchange is Azerbaijan's largest stock exchange, and largest in the Caucasian region by market capitalization. A relatively large number of transnational companies are headquartered in Baku. One of the more prominent institutions headquartered in Baku is the International Bank of Azerbaijan, which employs over 1,000 people. International banks with branches in Baku include HSBC, Société Générale and Credit Suisse.\nBaku is one of the most important tourist destinations in the Caucasus, with hotels in the city earning 7 million euros in 2009. Many sizable world hotel chains have a presence in the city. Baku has many popular tourist and entertainment spots, such as the downtown Fountains Square, the One and Thousand Nights Beach, Shikhov Beach and Oil Rocks. Baku's vicinities feature Yanar Dag, an ever-blazing spot of natural gas. On 2 September 2010, with the inauguration of National Flag Square, Baku became home to the world's tallest flagpole, according to the Guinness Book of Records. However, on 24 May 2011 Baku lost this record by just to the city of Dushanbe in Tajikistan. As of October 2017, the Flag Pole is dismantled and the National Flag Square closed with fences.\n\nBaku has several shopping malls; the most famous city center malls are Port Baku, Park Bulvar, Ganjlik Mall, Metro Park, 28 MALL, Aygun city and AF MALL. The retail areas contain shops from chain stores up to high-end boutiques.\n\nThe city is listed 48th in the 2011 list of the most expensive cities in the world conducted by the Mercer Human Resource Consulting. Its Nizami Street is one of the most expensive streets in the world.\n\nThe city has many amenities that offer a wide range of cultural activities, drawing both from a rich local dramatic portfolio and an international repertoire. In 2007 the Heydar Aliyev Cultural Center designed by famous Iraqi-British architect, Zaha Hadid, was opened. Baku also boasts many museums such as Baku Museum of Modern Art and Azerbaijan State Museum of History, most notably featuring historical artifacts and art. Many of the city's cultural sites were celebrated in 2009 when Baku was designated an Islamic Culture Capital. Baku was chosen to host the Eurovision Dance Contest 2010. It has also become the first city hosting the first European Games in 2015. \n\nAmong Baku's prestigious cultural venues are Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall, Azerbaijan State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre. The main movie theatre is Azerbaijan Cinema.\nFestivals include Baku International Film Festival, Baku International Jazz Festival, Novruz Festival, \"Gül Bayramı\" (Flower Festival) and the National Theater Festival. International and local exhibitions are presented at the Baku Expo Center.\n\n, the city along with Ganja and Lankaran participates in Earth Hour movement.\n\nBaku has wildly varying architecture, ranging from the Old City core to modern buildings and the spacious layout of Baku port. Many of the city's most impressive buildings were built during the early 20th century, when architectural elements of the European styles were combined in eclectic style. Baku has an original and unique appearance, earning it a reputation as the 'Paris of the East'.\n\nThe Hamam tradition in Baku is interesting. There are a number of ancient hamams in Baku dating back to the 12th, 14th and 18th centuries. Hamams play a very important role in the architectural appearance of Baku.\n\nTeze Bey is the most popular hamam (traditional bath) in Baku. It was built in 1886 in the center of Baku and in 2003 it was fully restored and modernized. Along with its modern amenities, Teze Bey features a swimming pool and architectural details inspired by Oriental, Russian and Finnish baths.\n\nGum Hamam was discovered during archaeological excavations underneath the sand; hence the name: Gum hamam (sand bath). It was built sometime during the 12th–14th centuries.\n\nIn ancient times Bairamali Hamam was called “Bey Hamam”. The original structure was built sometime during the 12th–14th centuries and was reconstructed in 1881.\n\nAgha Mikayil Hamam was constructed in the 18th century by Haji Agha Mikayil on Kichik Gala Street in the Old City (icherisheher). It is still operating in its ancient setting. The Hamam is open to women on Mondays and Fridays and to men on the other days of the week.\n\nLate modern and postmodern architecture began to appear in the early 2000s. With economic development, old buildings such as Atlant House were razed to make way for new ones. Buildings with all-glass shells have appeared around the city, the most prominent examples being the Azerbaijan Tower, Heydar Aliyev Cultural Center, Flame Towers, Baku Crystal Hall, Baku White City and SOCAR Tower. These projects also caught the attention of international media as notable programmes such as Discovery Channel's Extreme Engineering did pieces focusing in on changes to the city.\n\nThe Old City of Baku, also known as the Walled City of Baku, refers to the ancient Baku settlement. Most of the walls and towers, strengthened after the Russian conquest in 1806, survived. This section is picturesque, with its maze of narrow alleys and ancient buildings: the cobbled streets past the Palace of the Shirvanshahs, two caravansaries, the baths and the Juma Mosque (which used to house the Azerbaijan National Carpet and Arts Museum but is now a mosque again). The old town core also has dozens of small mosques, often without any particular sign to distinguish them as such.\n\nIn 2003, UNESCO placed the Inner City on the List of World Heritage in Danger, citing damage from a November 2000 earthquake, poor conservation as well as \"dubious\" restoration efforts. In 2009 the Inner City was removed from the List of World Heritage in Danger.\n\nThe music scene in Baku can be traced back to ancient times and villages of Baku, generally revered as the fountainhead of meykhana and mugham in the Azerbaijan.\n\nIn recent years, the success of Azerbaijani performers such as AySel, Farid Mammadov, Sabina Babayeva, Safura and Elnur Hüseynov in the Eurovision Song Contest has significantly boosted the profile of Baku's music scene, prompting international attention. Following the victory of Azerbaijan's representative Eldar & Nigar at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011, Baku hosted the Eurovision Song Contest 2012.\n\n2005 was a landmark in the development of Azerbaijani jazz in the city. It has been home to legendary jazz musicians like Vagif Mustafazadeh, Aziza Mustafa Zadeh, Rafig Babayev and Rain Sultanov. Among Baku's prominent annual fairs and festivals is Baku International Jazz Festival, which features some of the world's most identifiable jazz names.\n\nBaku also has a thriving International Center of Mugham, which is located in Baku Boulevard, Gulustan Palace and Buta Palace, one of the principal performing arts centers and music venues in the city.\n\nThe majority of Azerbaijan's media companies (including television, newspaper and radio, such as, Azad Azerbaijan TV, Ictimai TV, Lider TV and Region TV) are headquartered in Baku. The films \"The World Is Not Enough\" and \"The Diamond Arm\" are set in the city, while \"Amphibian Man\" includes several scenes filmed in Old City.\n\nOut of the city's radio stations, \"Ictimai Radio\", \"Radio Antenn\", \"Burc FM\", \"Avto FM\", \"ASAN Radio\" and \"Lider FM Jazz\" are some of the more influential competitors with large national audiences.\n\nSome of the most influential Baku newspapers include the daily \"Azadliq\", \"Zaman\" (The Time), \"Bakinskiy Rabochiy\" (Baku Worker), \"Echo\" and the English-language \"Baku Today\".\n\nBaku is also featured in the video game \"Battlefield 4\".\n\nBaku boasts a vibrant nightlife. Many clubs that are open until dawn can be found throughout the city. Clubs with an eastern flavor provide special treats from the cuisine of Azerbaijan along with local music. Western-style clubs target younger, more energetic crowds. Most of the public houses and bars are located near Fountains Square and are usually open until the early hours of the morning.\n\nBaku is home to restaurants catering to every cuisine and occasion. Restaurants range from luxurious and expensive to ordinary and affordable.\n\nIn the Lonely Planet \"1000 Ultimate Experiences\", Baku placed 8th among the top 10 party cities in the world.\n\nBaku has large sections of greenery either preserved by the National Government or designated as green zones. The city, however, continues to lack a green belt development as economic activity pours into the capital, resulting in massive housing projects along the suburbs.\n\nBaku Boulevard is a pedestrian promenade that runs parallel to Baku's seafront. The boulevard contains an amusement park, yacht club, musical fountain, statues and monuments. The park is popular with dog-walkers and joggers, and is convenient for tourists. It is adjacent to the newly built International Center of Mugham and the musical fountain.\n\nOther prominent parks and gardens include Heydar Aliyev Park, Samad Vurgun Park, Narimanov Park, Alley of Honor and the Fountains Square. The Martyrs' Lane, formerly the Kirov Park, is dedicated to the memory of those who lost their lives during the Nagorno-Karabakh War and also to the 137 people killed on Black January.\n\n Baku hosts a Formula One race on the Baku City Circuit. The first was the 2016 European Grand Prix.\n\nThe city will also host three group games and one quarter-final of the UEFA Euro 2020 European Football Championship.\n\nSince 2002, Baku has hosted 36 major sporting events and selected to host the 2015 European Games. Baku is also to host the fourth edition of the Islamic Solidarity Games in 2017.\n\nBaku is also one of world's leading chess centres, having produced famous grandmasters like Teimour Radjabov, Vugar Gashimov, Garry Kasparov, Shahriyar Mammadyarov and Rauf Mammadov, as well as the arbiter Faik Hasanov. The city also annually hosts the international tournaments such as Baku Chess Grand Prix, President's Cup, Baku Open and currently bidding to host 42nd Chess Olympiad in 2014.\n\nFirst class sporting facilities were built for the indoor games, including the Palace of Hand Games and Heydar Aliyev Sports and Exhibition Complex. It hosted many sporting events, including FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup, Rhythmic Gymnastics European Championships in 2007 and 2009, 2005 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships, 2007 FILA Wrestling World Championships and 2010 European Wrestling Championships, 2011 World Amateur Boxing Championships, 2009 Women's Challenge Cup and European Taekwondo Championships in 2007. Since 2011 the city annually hosts WTA tennis event called Baku Cup.\n\nThe Synergy Baku Cycling Project participates in the Tour d'Azerbaïdjan a 2.2 multi-stage bicycle race on the UCI Europe Tour.\n\nBaku made a bid to host the 2016 Summer Olympics and 2020 Summer Olympics, but failed to become a Candidate City both times.\n\nThe largest sport hub in the city is Baku Olympic Stadium with 68,700 seating capacity whose construction was completed in 2015. The city's three main football clubs are Neftchi Baku, Inter Baku and Qarabağ FK of whom first has eight Premier League titles making Neftchi the most successful Azerbaijani football club. Baku also has several football clubs in the premier and regional leagues, including AZAL and Ravan in Premier League. The city's second largest stadium, Tofiq Bahramov Stadium hosts a number of domestic and international competitions and was the main sport centre of the city for a long period until the construction of Baku Olympic Stadium.\n\nIn the Azerbaijan Women's Volleyball Super League, Baku is represented by Rabita Baku, Azerrail Baku, Lokomotiv Baku and Azeryol Baku.\n\nThroughout history the transport system of Baku used the now-defunct horsecars, trams and narrow gauge railways. , 1,000 black cabs are ordered by Baku Taxi Company, and as part of a programme originally announced by the Transport Ministry of Azerbaijan, there is a plan to introduce London cabs into Baku. The move was part of £16 million agreement between Manganese Bronze subsidiary LTI Limited and Baku Taxi Company.\n\nLocal rail transport includes the Baku Funicular and the Baku Metro, a rapid-transit system notable for its art, murals, mosaics and ornate chandeliers. Baku Metro was opened in November 1967 and includes 3 lines and 25 stations at present; 170 million people used Baku Metro over the past five years. In 2008, the Chief of Baku Metro, Taghi Ahmadov, announced plans to construct 41 new stations over the next 17 years. These will serve the new bus complex as well as the international airport.\n\nBakuCard is a single Smart Card for payment on all types of city transport. The intercity buses and metro use this type of card-based fare-payment system.\n\nBaku's Central Railway Station is the terminus for national and international rail links to the city. The Kars–Tbilisi–Baku railway, which directly connects Turkey, Georgia and Azerbaijan, began to be constructed in 2007 and opened in 2017. The completed branch will connect Baku with Tbilisi in Georgia, and from there trains will continue to Akhalkalaki, and Kars in Turkey.\nSea transport is vital for Baku, as the city is practically surrounded by the Caspian Sea to the east. Shipping services operate regularly from Baku across the Caspian Sea to Turkmenbashi (formerly Krasnovodsk) in Turkmenistan and to Bandar Anzali and Bandar Nowshar in Iran. The commuter ferries, along with the high-speed catamaran \"Seabus\" (\"Deniz Avtobusu\"), also form the main connection between the city and the Absheron peninsula.\n\nBaku Port was founded in 1902 and since then has been the largest Caspian Sea port. It has six facilities: the main cargo terminal, the container terminal, the ferry terminal, the oil terminal, the passenger terminal and the port fleet terminal. The port's throughput capacity reaches 15 million tons of liquid bulk and up to 10 million tons of dry cargoes.\nBeginning in 2010, the Baku International Sea Trade Port is being reconstructed. The construction will take place in three stages and will be completed by 2016. The estimated costs are 400 Million US$. From April to November Baku Port is accessible to ships loading cargoes for direct voyages from Western European and Mediterranean ports. The State Road M-1 and the European route E60 are the two main motorway connections between Europe and Azerbaijan. The motorway network around Baku is well developed and is constantly being extended.\nThe Heydar Aliyev International Airport is the only commercial airport serving Baku. The new Baku Cargo Terminal was officially opened in March 2005. It was constructed to be a major cargo hub in the CIS countries and is actually now one of the biggest and most technically advanced in the region. There are also several smaller military airbases near Baku, such as Baku Kala Air Base, intended for private aircraft, helicopters and charters.\n\nBaku hosts many universities, junior colleges and vocational schools. Baku State University, the first established university in Azerbaijan was opened in 1919 by the government of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic. In the early years of the Soviet era, Baku already had Azerbaijan State Oil Academy, Azerbaijan Medical University and Azerbaijan State Economic University. In the post-WWII period, a few more universities were established such as Azerbaijan Technical University, Azerbaijan University of Languages and the Azerbaijan Architecture and Construction University. After 1991 when Azerbaijan gained independence from the Soviet Union, the fall of communism led to the development of a number of private institutions, including Qafqaz University and Khazar University which are currently considered the most prestigious academic institutions. Apart from the private universities, the government established the Academy of Public Administration, the Azerbaijan Diplomatic Academy and various military academies. The largest universities according to the student population are Baku State University and Azerbaijan State Economic University. In addition, there are the Baku Music Academy and the Azerbaijan National Conservatoire in Baku established in the early 1920s. Publicly run kindergartens and elementary schools (years 1 through 11) are operated by local wards or municipal offices.\n\nThe Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, the main state research organization in Azerbaijan is locating in Baku as well. Moreover, Baku has numerous libraries, many of which contain vast collections of historic documents from the Roman, Byzantine, Ottoman and Soviet periods, as well as from other civilisations of the past. The most important libraries in terms of historic document collections include the Nizami Museum of Azerbaijan Literature, the National Library of Azerbaijan, the Mirza Alakbar Central Library, the Samad Vurgun Library and Baku Presidential Library.\n\nThe city has many public and private hospitals, clinics and laboratories within its bounds and numerous medical research centers. Many of these facilities have high technology equipment, which has contributed to the recent upsurge in \"medical tourism\" to Baku, particularly from post-Soviet countries such as Georgia and Moldova, whose governments send lower-income patients to the city for inexpensive high-tech medical treatments and operations.\n\nBecause of its intermittent periods of great prosperity as well as being the largest city in the Caucasus and one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse in the Soviet Union, Baku prides itself on having produced a disproportionate number of notable figures in the sciences, arts and other fields. Some of the houses they resided in display commemorative plaques. Some of the many prestigious residents include: Academy Award winners Rustam Ibrahimbeyov and Vladimir Menshov, one of the founders and head of the Soviet space program Kerim Kerimov, Nobel Prize winner and physicist Lev Landau and famous musicians such as Gara Garayev, Uzeyir Hajibeyov, Muslim Magomayev, Vagif Mustafazadeh and Alim Qasimov. World-famous cellist Mstislav Rostropovich was born and raised in Baku, as was world-famous chess player, Garry Kasparov.\nBaku is twinned with:\n\n\nPartnership relations also exist at different levels with: Paris, Vienna, Tbilisi, Astana, Minsk, Moscow, Volgograd, Kizlyar, Tashkent and Chengdu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33605056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33605056", "title": "Bismuth selenide", "text": "Bismuth selenide\n\nBismuth selenide (BiSe) is a gray compound of bismuth and selenium also known as bismuth(III) selenide. It is a semiconductor and a thermoelectric material. While perfect stoichiometric bismuth selenide should be a semiconductor (with a gap of 0.3 eV) naturally occurring selenium vacancies act as electron donors and it often acts as a semimetal. Topologically protected surface states have been observed in Bismuth selenide, which is the subject of ongoing scientific research.\n\n"}
{"id": "6487947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6487947", "title": "Bullet Cluster", "text": "Bullet Cluster\n\nThe Bullet Cluster (1E 0657-558) consists of two colliding clusters of galaxies. Strictly speaking, the name \"Bullet Cluster\" refers to the smaller subcluster, moving away from the larger one. It is at a co-moving radial distance of 1.141 Gpc (3.7 billion light-years).\n\nGravitational lensing studies of the Bullet Cluster are claimed to provide the best evidence to date for the existence of dark matter.\n\nObservations of other galaxy cluster collisions, such as MACS J0025.4-1222, are similarly claimed to support the existence of dark matter.\n\nThe major components of the cluster pair—stars, gas and the putative dark matter—behave differently during collision, allowing them to be studied separately. The stars of the galaxies, observable in visible light, were not greatly affected by the collision, and most passed right through, gravitationally slowed but not otherwise altered. The hot gas of the two colliding components, seen in X-rays, represents most of the baryonic, i.e. ordinary, matter in the cluster pair. The gases interact electromagnetically, causing the gases of both clusters to slow much more than the stars. The third component, the dark matter, was detected indirectly by the gravitational lensing of background objects. In theories without dark matter, such as Modified Newtonian Dynamics (MOND), the lensing would be expected to follow the baryonic matter; i.e. the X-ray gas. However, the lensing is strongest in two separated regions near (possibly coincident with) the visible galaxies. This provides support for the idea that most of the mass in the cluster pair is in the form of two regions of dark matter, which bypassed the gas regions during the collision. This accords with predictions of dark matter as only weakly interacting, other than via the gravitational force.\n\nThe Bullet Cluster is one of the hottest known clusters of galaxies. It provides an observable constraint for cosmological models, which may diverge at temperatures beyond their predicted critical cluster temperature. Observed from Earth, the subcluster passed through the cluster center 150 million years ago, creating a \"bow-shaped shock wave located near the right side of the cluster\" formed as \"70 million kelvin gas in the sub-cluster plowed through [1 E6 K|100 million ] kelvin gas in the main cluster at a speed of about 6 million miles per hour (nearly 10 million km/h)\". This energy output is equivalent to that of 10 typical quasars.\n\nThe Bullet Cluster provides the best current evidence for the nature of dark matter and provides \"evidence against some of the more popular versions of Modified Newtonian Dynamics (MOND)\" as applied to large galactic clusters. At a statistical significance of 8σ, it was found that the spatial offset of the center of the total mass from the center of the baryonic mass peaks cannot be explained with an alteration of the gravitational force law alone.\nAccording to Greg Madejski:\nAccording to Eric Hayashi:\nA 2010 study has concluded that the velocities of the collision as currently measured are \"incompatible with the prediction of a LCDM model\". However subsequent work has found the collision to be consistent with LCDM simulations, with the previous discrepancy stemming from small simulations and the methodology of identifying pairs. Earlier work claiming the Bullet Cluster was inconsistent with standard cosmology was based on an erroneous estimate of the in-fall velocity based on the speed of the shock in the X-ray emitting gas.\n\nWhile the Bullet Cluster phenomenon may provide direct evidence for dark matter on large cluster scales, it offers no specific insight into the original galaxy rotation problem. In fact, the observed ratio of dark matter to visible matter in a typical rich galaxy cluster is much lower than predicted. This may indicate that the Lambda-CDM model, the prevailing cosmological model, is insufficient to describe the mass discrepancy on galaxy scales, or that its predictions about the shape of the universe are incorrect.\n\nMordehai Milgrom, the original proposer of Modified Newtonian Dynamics, has posted an on-line rebuttal of claims that the Bullet Cluster proves the existence of dark matter. Milgrom claims that MOND correctly accounts for the dynamics of galaxies outside of galaxy clusters, and even in clusters such as the Bullet Cluster it removes the need for most dark matter, leaving only a factor of two which Milgrom expects to be simply unseen ordinary matter (non-luminous baryonic matter) rather than cold dark matter. Without MOND, or some similar theory, the matter discrepancy in galaxy clusters is a factor of 10, i.e. MOND reduces this discrepancy five-fold to a factor of 2. Another study in 2006 cautions against \"simple interpretations of the analysis of weak lensing in the bullet cluster\", leaving it open that even in the non-symmetrical case of the Bullet Cluster, MOND, or rather its relativistic version TeVeS (tensor–vector–scalar gravity), could account for the observed gravitational lensing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7158", "title": "Carat (mass)", "text": "Carat (mass)\n\nThe carat (ct) (not to be confused with the karat, sometimes spelled carat, a unit of purity of gold alloys), is a unit of mass equal to 200 mg (0.2 g; 0.007055 oz) and is used for measuring gemstones and pearls.\nThe current definition, sometimes known as the metric carat, was adopted in 1907 at the Fourth General Conference on Weights and Measures, and soon afterwards in many countries around the world. The carat is divisible into one hundred \"points\" of two milligrams each. Other subdivisions, and slightly different mass values, have been used in the past in different locations.\n\nIn terms of diamonds, a paragon is a flawless stone of at least 100 carats (20 g).\n\nThe ANSI X.12 EDI standard abbreviation for the carat is CD.\n\nFirst attested in English in the mid-15th century, the word \"carat\" comes from Italian \"carato\", which comes from Arabic \"qīrāṭ\" قيراط, in turn borrowed from Greek \"kerátion\" κεράτιον 'carob seed', a diminutive of \"keras\" 'horn'. It was a unit of weight, though unlikely to have been used to measure gold in classical times.\n\nCarob seeds have been used throughout history to measure jewelry, because it was believed that there was little variance in their mass distribution. However, this was a factual inaccuracy, as their mass varies about as much as seeds of other species.\n\nIn the past, each country had its own carat. It was often used for weighing gold. Starting in the 1570s, it was used to measure weights of diamonds.\n\nAn 'international carat' of 205 milligrams was proposed in 1871 by the Syndical Chamber of Jewellers, etc., in Paris, and accepted in 1877 by the Syndical Chamber of Diamond Merchants in Paris. A metric carat of 200 milligrams – exactly one-fifth of a gram – had often been suggested, and was finally proposed by the International Committee of Weights and Measures, and accepted at the fourth sexennial General Conference of the Metric Convention held in Paris in October 1907. It was soon made compulsory by law in France, but uptake of the new carat was slower in England, where its use was allowed by the Weights and Measures (Metric System) Act of 1897.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the original Board of Trade carat was exactly grains (~3.170 grains = ~205 mg); in 1888, the Board of Trade carat was changed to exactly grains (~3.168 grains = ~205 mg). Despite its being a non-metric unit, a number of metric countries have used this unit for its limited range of application.\n\nThe Board of Trade carat was divisible into four \"diamond grains\", but measurements were typically made in multiples of carat.\n\nThere were also two varieties of \"refiners' carats\" once used in the United Kingdom — the pound carat and the ounce carat. The pound troy was divisible into 24 \"pound carats\" of 240 grains troy each; the pound carat was divisible into four \"pound grains\" of 60 grains troy each; and the pound grain was divisible into four \"pound quarters\" of 15 grains troy each. Likewise, the ounce troy was divisible into 24 \"ounce carats\" of 20 grains troy each; the ounce carat was divisible into four \"ounce grains\" of 5 grains troy each; and the ounce grain was divisible into four \"ounce quarters\" of grains troy each.\n\nThe \"solidus\" was also a Roman weight unit. There is literary evidence that the weight of 72 coins of the type called \"solidus\" was exactly 1 Roman pound, and that the weight of 1 \"solidus\" was 24 \"siliquae\". The weight of a Roman pound is generally believed to have been 327.45 g or possibly up to 5 g less. Therefore, the metric equivalent of 1 \"siliqua\" was approximately 189 mg. The Greeks had a similar unit of the same value.\n\nGold fineness in carats comes from carats and grains of gold in a solidus of coin. The conversion rates 1 solidus = 24 carats, 1 carat = 4 grains still stand. Woolhouse's \"Measures, Weights and Moneys of all Nations\" gives gold fineness in carats of 4 grains, and silver in pounds of 12 troy ounces of 20 pennyweight each.\n"}
{"id": "43236516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43236516", "title": "China University of Petroleum", "text": "China University of Petroleum\n\nThe China University of Petroleum () is a university in China. It consists of China University of Petroleum（which located in Qingdao ) and branch school called China University of Petroleum (Beijing), located in Beijing. Both are regarded as the best universities in the field of petroleum related subjects in China. It is placed under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.\n\nThe university, founded in 1953, was known then as Beijing Petroleum Institute. It was founded acquiring the best petroleum associated departments in the country:\n\nIt moved to Dongying, Shandong Province in 1969, with name changed to Huadong Petroleum Institute. In 1988, it was renamed The University of Petroleum consisting of one part in Dongying as the college and one in Beijing as the graduate school. Each gradually developed into universities with both undergraduate and graduate students. In January 2005, its name changed to China University of Petroleum. In 2004, China University of Petroleum (East China) began to move to Qingdao, and completed the relocation in 2012. Dongying campus currently serves as the base for continuing education, remote education, research laboratories, and industry collaboration.\n\nChina University of Petroleum specializes in upstream, midstream and downstream petroleum science and engineering, in the overall level of domestic lead. Its five national key specialties are:\n\nChina University of Petroleum - Beijing is located in Changping District, Beijing. China University of Petroleum - East China is located in Qingdao. It also manages its old campus in Dongying.\n\nThe alumni of CUP include the top officials of China, CEOs of major oil companies, members of Chinese Academy of Sciences, and members of Chinese Academy of Engineering, etc. The most famous alumni are,\n\n"}
{"id": "3082957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3082957", "title": "Coaxial rotors", "text": "Coaxial rotors\n\nCoaxial rotors or \"coax rotors\" are a pair of helicopter rotors mounted one above the other on concentric shafts, with the same axis of rotation, but turning in opposite directions (contra-rotating). This configuration is a feature of helicopters produced by the Russian Kamov helicopter design bureau.\n\nThe idea of coaxial rotors originates with Mikhail Lomonosov. He had developed a small helicopter model with coaxial rotors in July 1754 and demonstrated it to the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1859, the British Patent Office awarded the first helicopter patent to Henry Bright for his coaxial design. From this point, coaxial helicopters developed into fully operational machines as we know them today.\n\nTwo pioneering helicopters, the Corradino D'Ascanio-built \"D'AT3\" of 1930, and the generally more successful French mid-1930s \"Gyroplane Laboratoire\", both used coaxial rotor systems for flight.\n\nHaving two coaxial sets of rotors provides symmetry of forces around the central axis for lifting the vehicle and laterally when flying in any direction. Because of the mechanical complexity, many helicopter designs use alternate configurations to avoid problems that arise when only one rotor is used. Common alternatives are single-rotor helicopters or tandem rotor arrangements.\n\nOne of the problems with any single set of rotor blades is the torque (rotational force) exerted on the helicopter fuselage in the direction opposite to the rotor blades. This torque causes the fuselage to rotate in the direction opposite to the rotor blades. In single rotor helicopters, the antitorque rotor or tail rotor counteracts the main rotor torque and controls the fuselage rotation.\n\nCoaxial rotors solve the problem of main rotor torque by turning each set of rotors in opposite directions. The opposite torques from the rotors cancel each other out. Rotational maneuvering, yaw control, is accomplished by increasing the collective pitch of one rotor and decreasing the collective pitch on the other. This causes a controlled dissymmetry of torque.\n\nDissymmetry of lift is an aerodynamic phenomenon caused by the rotation of a helicopter's rotors in forward flight. Rotor blades provide lift proportional to the amount of air flowing over them. When viewed from above, the rotor blades move in the direction of flight for half of the rotation (advancing half), and then move in the opposite direction for the remainder of the rotation (retreating half). A rotor blade produces more lift in the advancing half. As a blade moves toward the direction of flight, the forward motion of the aircraft increases the speed of the air flowing around the blade until it reaches a maximum when the blade is perpendicular to the relative wind. At the same time, a rotor blade in the retreating half produces less lift. As a blade moves away from the direction of flight, the speed of the airflow over the rotor blade is reduced by an amount equal to the forward speed of the aircraft, reaching its maximum effect when the rotor blade is again perpendicular to the relative wind. \nCoaxial rotors avoid the effects of dissymmetry of lift through the use of two rotors turning in opposite directions, causing blades to advance on either side at the same time.\n\nAnother benefit arising from a coaxial design includes increased payload for the same engine power; a tail rotor typically wastes some of the available engine power that would be fully devoted to lift and thrust with a coaxial design. Reduced noise is a second advantage of the configuration; some of the loud \"slapping\" noise associated with conventional helicopters arises from interaction between the airflows from the main and tail rotors, which in some designs can be severe. Also, helicopters using coaxial rotors tend to be more compact (with a smaller footprint on the ground), though at the price of increased height, and consequently have uses in areas where space is at a premium; several Kamov designs are used in naval roles, being capable of operating from confined spaces on the decks of ships, including ships other than aircraft carriers (an example being the Kara Class cruisers of the Russian navy, which carry a Ka-25 'Hormone' helicopter as part of their standard equipment). Another benefit is increased safety on the ground; the absence of a tail rotor eliminates the major source of injuries and fatalities to ground crews and bystanders.\n\nA principal disadvantage of the coaxial rotor design is the increased mechanical complexity of the rotor hub. The linkages and swashplates for two rotor systems need to be assembled atop the mast, which is more complex because of the need to drive two rotors in opposite directions. Because of the greater number of moving parts and complexity, the coaxial rotor system is more prone to mechanical faults and possible failure. Coaxial helicopters are also more prone to the \"whipping\" of blades and blade self-collision according to critics.\n\nThe system's inherent stability and quick control response make it suitable for use in small radio controlled helicopters. These benefits come at the cost of a limited forward speed, and higher sensitivity to wind. These two factors are especially limiting in outdoor use. Such models are usually fixed-pitch (i.e., the blades cannot be rotated on their axes for different angles of attack), simplifying the model but eliminating the ability to compensate with collective input. Compensating for even the slightest breeze causes the model to climb rather than to fly forward even with full application of cyclic.\n\nMultirotor type Unmanned Aerial Vehicles exist in numerous configurations including duocopter, tricopter, quadcopter, hexacopter and octocopter. All of them can be upgraded to coaxial configuration in order to bring more stability and flight time while allowing carrying much more payload without gaining too much weight. Indeed, coaxial multirotors are made by having each arm carrying two motors facing in opposite directions (one up and one down). Therefore, it is possible to have an octorotor looking like a quadcopter thanks to coaxial configuration. Special Duocopters are characterised by two motors aligned in a vertical axis. The control is performed by the appropriate acceleration of a single rotor blade for targeted thrust generation during revolution. Having more lifting power for a greater payload explains why coaxial multirotors are preferred for all professional commercial application of UAS.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Transportation has published a “Basic Helicopter Handbook”. One of the chapters in it is titled, “Some Hazards of Helicopter Flight'. Ten hazards have been listed to indicate what a typical single rotor helicopter has to deal with. The unique coaxial rotor design either reduces or completely eliminates these hazards. The following list indicates which:\n\n\nThe reduction and elimination of these hazards are the strong points for the safety of coaxial rotor design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28914158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28914158", "title": "DC injection braking", "text": "DC injection braking\n\nDC injection braking is a method of slowing AC electric motors. A DC voltage is injected into the winding of the AC motor after the AC voltage is disconnected, providing braking force to the rotor.\n\nWhen power is disconnected from the motor, the rotor spins freely until friction slows it to a stop. Large rotors and loads with a high moment of inertia may take a significant amount of time to stop through inherent friction alone. To reduce downtime, or possibly as an emergency safety feature, DC injection braking can be used to quickly stop the rotor.\n\nA DC injection brake system can be used as an alternative to a friction brake system. DC injection brakes only require a small module located with the other motor switchgear and/or drivers, mounted in a remote and convenient location, whereas a friction brake must be mounted somewhere on the rotating system. Friction brakes eventually wear out with use and require replacement of braking components. DC brake modules do not have consumable parts and should not require maintenance. Friction brakes also require a method of actuation, requiring either a human operator or system controlled actuator, adding to the complexity of the system. A DC brake is easily integrated into the motor control circuitry.\n\nA DC voltage is applied to the motor stator windings, creating a stationary magnetic field which applies a static torque to the rotor. This slows and eventually halts the rotor completely. As long as the DC voltage is applied to the windings, the rotor will be held in position and resistant to any attempt to spin it. The higher the voltage that is applied, the stronger the braking force and holding power. The DC current should only be applied for a few seconds or the motor will overheat.. \n\nIn a thyristor-controlled injection braking unit, the DC voltage to be injected into the motor stator winding is obtained by rectifying the supply voltage. Two thyristors are connected as a phase controlled rectifier (PCR). The braking torque depends on the magnitude of the current, which can be varied by phase control of the thyristors. When the motor is switched off, the motor contactor relay not only disconnects the AC current supply to the motor windings, but also causes a braking relay contactor to close. This initiates a sequence beginning with a time delay of about 300ms that allows voltage still present in the motor windings, caused by residual magnetism (remanence), to diminish to a safe level. Then, the thyristors begin firing to produce the DC braking current. The DC current is set by a timer to continue for a few seconds, and then is switched off. The braking current decays, and after a delay of about 1.5 seconds the braking relay contactor opens again. At this point the motor can be restarted. In such a unit, there are typically two potentiometers, one to vary the braking torque from the firing circuit and the other to vary the timer. These settings are balanced so that braking torque does not exceed rated motor torque, but also the braking time must be limited to prevent motor overheating.,\n\n"}
{"id": "38575580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38575580", "title": "Dahe Solar Park", "text": "Dahe Solar Park\n\nThe Dahe Solar Park is a 40 MWp photovoltaic power station located in Dahe Town, Zhangjiakou City, Hebei Province, in China. It uses fixed tilt arrays. 37 MW is from polysilicon arrays, 1 MW is from monocrystalline silicon, 1 MW is from monocrystalline back contact SPR-320E-WHTD arrays from SunPower and 1 MW is from thin film. A 20 MW storage system consists of batteries capable of storing a total of 63 MWh, to allow better use of the generated electricity.\n\n"}
{"id": "20683015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683015", "title": "Depleted zinc oxide", "text": "Depleted zinc oxide\n\nDepleted zinc oxide (DZO) is a zinc oxide depleted in the zinc isotope with the atomic mass 64, and used as a corrosion inhibitor in nuclear pressurized water reactors.\n\nThe depletion of Zn is necessary, because this isotope is transformed into Zn by neutron capture. Zn with a half-life of 244.26 days emits gamma radiation with 1.115 MeV. Zn has a natural abundance of 48.6%, but in DZO it is reduced below 1%. Adding zinc oxide to the primary water loop of a pressurized water nuclear reactor reduces corrosion and therefore minimizes the amount of dissolved materials, especially Co.\n\nThe isotope separation of zinc is done by gas centrifugation of diethylzinc.\n\n"}
{"id": "7321888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7321888", "title": "Dielectric thermal analysis", "text": "Dielectric thermal analysis\n\nDielectric thermal analysis (DETA), or dielectric analysis (DEA), is a materials science technique similar to dynamic mechanical analysis except that an oscillating electrical field is used instead of a mechanical force. For investigation of the curing behavior of thermosetting resin systems, composite materials, adhesives and paints, Dielectric Analysis (DEA) can be used in accordance with ASTM E 2038 or E 2039. The great advantage of DEA is that it can be employed not only on a laboratory scale, but also in process.\n\nIn a typical test, the sample is placed in contact with two electrodes (the dielectric sensor) and a sinusoidal voltage (the excitation) is applied to one electrode. The resulting sinusoidal current (the response) is measured at the second electrode. The response signal is attenuated in amplitude and shifted in phase in relation to the mobility of the ions and alignment of the dipoles. Dipoles in the material will attempt to align with the electric field and ions (present as impurities) will move toward the electrode of opposite polarity. The dielectric properties of permittivity ε' and loss factor ε\" are then calculated from this measured amplitude and phase change.\n"}
{"id": "30839171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30839171", "title": "Dynamical mean-field theory", "text": "Dynamical mean-field theory\n\nDynamical mean-field theory (DMFT) is a method to determine the electronic structure of strongly correlated materials. In such materials, the approximation of independent electrons, which is used in density functional theory and usual band structure calculations, breaks down. Dynamical mean-field theory, a non-perturbative treatment of local interactions between electrons, bridges the gap between the nearly free electron gas limit and the atomic limit of condensed-matter physics.\n\nDMFT consists in mapping a many-body lattice problem to a many-body \"local\" problem, called an impurity model. While the lattice problem is in general intractable, the impurity model is usually solvable through various schemes. The mapping in itself does not constitute an approximation. The only approximation made in ordinary DMFT schemes is to assume the lattice self-energy to be a momentum-independent (local) quantity. This approximation becomes exact in the limit of lattices with an infinite coordination.\n\nOne of DMFT's main successes is to describe the phase transition between a metal and a Mott insulator when the strength of electronic correlations is increased. It has been successfully applied to real materials, in combination with the local density approximation of density functional theory.\n\nThe DMFT treatment of lattice quantum models is similar to the mean-field theory (MFT) treatment of classical models such as the Ising model. In the Ising model, the lattice problem is mapped onto an effective single site problem, whose magnetization is to reproduce the lattice magnetization through an effective \"mean-field\". This condition is called the self-consistency condition. It stipulates that the single-site observables should reproduce the lattice \"local\" observables by means of an effective field. While the N-site Ising Hamiltonian is hard to solve analytically (to date, analytical solutions exist only for the 1D and 2D case), the single-site problem is easily solved.\n\nLikewise, DMFT maps a lattice problem (\"e.g.\" the Hubbard model) onto a single-site problem. In DMFT, the local observable is the local Green's function. Thus, the self-consistency condition for DMFT is for the impurity Green's function to reproduce the lattice local Green's function through an effective mean-field which, in DMFT, is the hybridization function formula_1 of the impurity model. DMFT owes its name to the fact that the mean-field formula_1 is time-dependent, or dynamical. This also points to the major difference between the Ising MFT and DMFT: Ising MFT maps the N-spin problem into a single-site, single-spin problem. DMFT maps the lattice problem onto a single-site problem, but the latter fundamentally remains a N-body problem which captures the temporal fluctuations due to electron-electron correlations.\n\nThe Hubbard model describes the onsite interaction between electrons of opposite spin by a single parameter, formula_3. The Hubbard Hamiltonian may take the following form:\nwhere, on suppressing the spin 1/2 indices formula_5, formula_6 denote the creation and annihilation operators of an electron on a localized orbital on site formula_7, and formula_8.\n\nThe following assumptions have been made:\n\nThe Hubbard model is in general intractable under usual perturbation expansion techniques. DMFT maps this lattice model onto the so-called Anderson impurity model (AIM). This model describes the interaction of one site (the impurity) with a \"bath\" of electronic levels (described by the annihilation and creation operators formula_11 and formula_12) through a hybridization function. The Anderson model corresponding to our single-site model is a single-orbital Anderson impurity model, whose hamiltonian formulation, on suppressing some spin 1/2 indices formula_5, is:\nwhere\n\nThe Matsubara Green's function of this model, defined by formula_21, is entirely determined by the parameters formula_22 and the so-called hybridization function formula_23, which is the imaginary-time Fourier-transform of formula_24.\n\nThis hybridization function describes the dynamics of electrons hopping in and out of the bath. It should reproduce the lattice dynamics such that the impurity Green's function is the same as the local lattice Green's function. It is related to the non-interacting Green's function by the relation:\n\nSolving the Anderson impurity model consists in computing observables such as the interacting Green's function formula_26 for a given hybridization function formula_27 and formula_28. It is a difficult but not intractable problem. There exists a number of ways to solve the AIM, such as\n\nThe self-consistency condition requires the impurity Green's function formula_29 to coincide with the local lattice Green's function formula_30:\nwhere formula_32 denotes the lattice self-energy.\n\nThe only DMFT approximations (apart from the approximation that can be made in order to solve the Anderson model) consists in neglecting the spatial fluctuations of the lattice self-energy, by equating it to the impurity self-energy:\n\nThis approximation becomes exact in the limit of lattices with infinite coordination, that is when the number of neighbors of each site is infinite. Indeed, one can show that in the diagrammatic expansion of the lattice self-energy, only local diagrams survive when one goes into the infinite coordination limit.\n\nThus, as in classical mean-field theories, DMFT is supposed to get more accurate as the dimensionality (and thus the number of neighbors) increases. Put differently, for low dimensions, spatial fluctuations will render the DMFT approximation less reliable.\n\nIn order to find the local lattice Green's function, one has to determine the hybridization function such that the corresponding impurity Green's function will coincide with the sought-after local lattice Green's function.\nThe most widespread way of solving this problem is by using a forward recursion method, namely, for a given formula_34, formula_35 and temperature formula_36:\n\nThe local lattice Green's function and other impurity observables can be used to calculate a number of physical quantities as a function of correlations formula_3, bandwidth, filling (chemical potential formula_35), and temperature formula_36:\n\nIn particular, the drop of the double-occupancy as formula_3 increases is a signature of the Mott transition.\n\nDMFT has several extensions, extending the above formalism to multi-orbital, multi-site problems.\n\nDMFT can be extended to Hubbard models with multiple orbitals, namely with electron-electron interactions of the form formula_49 where formula_50 and formula_51 denote different orbitals. The combination with density functional theory (DFT+DMFT) then allows for a realistic calculation of correlated materials.\n\nExtended DMFT yields a local impurity self energy for non-local interactions and hence allows us to apply DMFT for more general models such as the t-J model.\n\nIn order to improve on the DMFT approximation, the Hubbard model can be mapped on a multi-site impurity (cluster) problem, which allows one to add some spatial dependence to the impurity self-energy. Clusters contain 4 to 8 sites at low temperature and up to 100 sites at high temperature.\n\nSpatial dependencies of the self energy beyond DMFT, including long-range correlations in the vicinity of a phase transition, can be obtained also through a combination of analytical and numerical techniques. The starting point of the dynamical vertex approximation and of the dual fermion approach is the local two-particle vertex.\n\nDMFT has been employed to study non-equilibrium transport and optical excitations. Here, the reliable calculation of the AIM's Green function out of equilibrium remains a big challenge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24273148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24273148", "title": "Focus on Energy", "text": "Focus on Energy\n\nFocus on Energy is a statewide program in Wisconsin that offers information, services and financial incentives to help residents and businesses select and install cost-effective solutions that save energy and money.\n\nFocus on Energy was formed in 2001 as Wisconsin’s statewide energy efficiency and renewable resource initiative. The program’s goals are to work with eligible Wisconsin residents and businesses to help them manage rising energy costs, promote in-state economic development, protect our environment and control the state's growing demand for electricity and natural gas.\n\nThrough 2008, Focus on Energy has helped Wisconsin residents and businesses save $239 million and 1,729,990,576 kilowatt hours.\n\nOriginally formed by the Wisconsin Legislature in 1999 and funded by the Utility Public Benefits fund, Focus delivers energy efficiency and renewable energy services for residential, business and renewable customers throughout the state. In 2001, the Department of Administration rolled out the Focus on Energy Program statewide. In partnership with consumers, utilities, businesses, nonprofit organizations and governmental agencies, the programs help residents and businesses make smart energy choices. Per the legislation, Focus aims to:\n\nUnder 2005 Wisconsin Act 141, investor-owned electric and natural-gas utilities are required to spend 1.2 percent of their annual gross operating revenues on energy efficiency programs and renewable resource programs. The Act requires municipal and electric cooperative utilities that choose not to conduct their own programs to contribute revenue to the statewide program (Focus on Energy) created and funded by investor-owned utilities. Municipal and electric cooperative utilities can elect to operate their own Commitment to Community programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "23295097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23295097", "title": "Forestry in Angola", "text": "Forestry in Angola\n\nAbout 18.4% of Angola is classified as forest and woodland. Angola’s large timber resources include the great Maiombe tropical rain forest in Cabinda. In addition, eucalyptus, pine, and cypress plantations cover 140,000 hectares (346,000 acres). In 2003, roundwood production was estimated at 4,518,000 cu m, and exports amounted to 1,000 cu m.\n\n"}
{"id": "49656238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49656238", "title": "Half-Earth", "text": "Half-Earth\n\nHalf-Earth: Our Planet's Fight for Life is a 2016 book by E. O. Wilson, in which the author proposes that half of the Earth's land should be designated a human-free natural reserve to preserve biodiversity. Wilson noted that the term \"Half-Earth\" was coined for this concept by Tony Hiss in his \"Smithsonian\" article \"Can the World Really Set Aside Half the Planet for Wildlife?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1625386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625386", "title": "Haʻamonga ʻa Maui", "text": "Haʻamonga ʻa Maui\n\nHaamonga a Maui (Burden of Maui) is a stone trilithon located in Tonga, on the north of the island of Tongatapu, near the village of Niutōua, in Heketā.\n\nThe trilithon is constructed from three coral limestone slabs, and is up to high, 1.4 m wide, and 5.8 m long. The weight of the visible part of each upright stone is approximately 30–40 tons. There are hewn deep mortises in the top of each upright stone to fit in the lintel.\n\nHa'amonga 'a Maui was either built at the beginning of the 13th century under the 11th Tui Tonga Tuitātui (king strike the knee) and the high chief Loʻau, most likely as a gateway to his royal compound Heketā, or by the deified ancestor Maui in the 6th century, most likely as a astronomical observatory. One can pass through the portal and walk the short distance towards the esi maka faakinanga (stone to lean against), which served as the king's throne. Sitting with his back to that stone, he was safe from assassins from behind, and with his long stick he could hit every potential foe from the front on his knees.\n\nIn Tongan tradition the Haamonga is also believed to have been made by the god Maui, as the stones would be too huge for mortals to handle. The word \"haamonga\" means \"a stick with loads on both ends, carried over the shoulder\". Maui was supposed to have the stones obtained from Uvea (Wallis Island) and carried on to Tonga in a giant canoe. \n\nThe resemblance of the trilithon with Stonehenge is often quoted, but Stonehenge has many more pillars and the lintels are on top of the sarsens, and not sunken down in a slit. Stonehenge may have been an archaeoastronomical observatory, as claimed by Gerald Hawkins in 1963. Nevertheless, this was enough for the king of Tonga Tāufaāhau Tupou IV to come in 1967 with the theory that the Haamonga had an astronomical significance too, telling the position of sunrise at solstices and equinoxes. This theory is supported by the research of Tongan historian Tevita Fale. According to Tevita Fale, there is a V-shaped mark on top of the lintel that aligns with the rising of the sun during the solstices and equinoxes. \nKik Velt disagrees with the findings of the king Tāufaāhau Tupou IV and Tevita Fale. Velt argues that the V on top is an arrow directed along the main axis of the lintel (about ESE, 117°5 E of N), only 10 cm long, too short to be a reliable indicator of any direction. \n"}
{"id": "2004315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004315", "title": "Hefty", "text": "Hefty\n\nHefty is a brand name of household products such as trash bags and trash cans, disposable tableware, children’s disposable tableware, slider closure food storage and freezer bags, plastic storage bins, and disposable cookware. Originally a Mobil product, the brand has been owned by Reynolds Consumer Products, Inc since 2010.\n\nHefty products are sold nationwide (in stores and online) at grocery stores, drugstores, and other mass merchandisers in the United States.\n\nHefty was founded by Mobil Chemical Co. Plastics Division headquartered in Macedon, New York, was acquired by Tenneco Packaging in 1995 with a $1.27 billion purchase of Mobil's 4,100-employee plastics division, then Pactiv Corporation (1999–2010). Hefty products have been owned or licensed by Reynolds Consumer Products, Inc, headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois since Pactiv was acquired by Reynolds' parent company, Reynolds Group Holdings, on November 16, 2010.\n\nThe Hefty OneZip sliding tab sealable bag, formally known as the \"rolling-action zipper profile and slipper\", was created by Mobil in the early 1990s at a cost of $25 to $50 million, after having developed and evaluated various different zipper designs, and finally deciding to roll out the \"boxcar-shaped version\", which slides over dual plastic tracks.\n\nHefty was one of the brands (along with Kordite and Baggies (another Pactiv brand)) named in a complaint brought against Mobil by the United States Federal Trade Commission in 1992, regarding claims made by the company in advertisements and packaging, which allegedly led consumers to believe that the bags were more biodegradable than other brands of bag, despite a lack of evidence to support this claim nor presentation of a specific definition for the term. The FTC dropped their complaint after Mobil agreed to cease making such claims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55794265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55794265", "title": "Hexafluoroisobutylene", "text": "Hexafluoroisobutylene\n\nHexafluoroisobutylene is an organofluorine compound with the formula (CF)C=CH. This colorless gas is structurally similar to isobutylene. It is used as a comonomer in the production of modified polyvinylidene fluoride. It is produced in a multistep process starting with the reaction of acetic anhydride with hexafluoroacetone. It is oxidized by sodium hypochlorite to hexafluoroisobutylene oxide. As expected, it is a potent dienophiles.\n"}
{"id": "20711430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20711430", "title": "Huey Johnson", "text": "Huey Johnson\n\nHuey Johnson (born 1933) is a self-described environmentalist and the founder of Resource Renewal Institute (RRI), a non-profit organization that deals with environmental sustainability. He is also the founder of The Trust for Public Land, the Grand Canyon Trust and the Environmental Liaison Center. In 2001, Johnson was awarded by the United Nations Environmental Programme the $200,000 Saskawa Prize, considered one of the world’s most important environmental awards. Huey Johnson’s work in resource management has been praised by United Nations officials for having a global perspective. The United Nations has also called Johnson \"a catalyst and champion for environmental protection”.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1982, Johnson was California's secretary for resources during the Jerry Brown administration. Johnson is known for introducing Green Plans, an integrated approach to protecting and managing natural resources, to the United States. Mr. Johnson believes that these plans are capable of managing Climate Change. Green Plans, which have been implemented in the Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden, and Mexico City, provide useful working models to help countries plan for a more sustainable future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31948434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31948434", "title": "Hydrogen ion cluster", "text": "Hydrogen ion cluster\n\nA hydrogen molecular ion cluster or hydrogen cluster ion is a positively charged cluster of hydrogen molecules. The hydrogen molecular ion () and trihydrogen ion () are well defined molecular species. However hydrogen also forms singly charged clusters () with \"n\" up to 120.\n\nHydrogen ion clusters can be formed in liquid helium or with lesser cluster size in pure hydrogen. is far more common than higher even numbered clusters. is stable in solid hydrogen. The positive charge is balanced by a solvated electron. It is formed when ionizing radiation impinges on solid hydrogen, and so is formed in radioactive solid tritium. In natural hydrogen treated with radiation, the positive charge transfers to HD molecules, in preference to , with the ultimate most stable arrangement being HD(HD)HD. can migrate through solid hydrogen by linking a hydrogen molecule at one end and losing it at the other: + → + . This migration stops once an HD molecule is added resulting in a lower energy level. HD or is added in preference over .\n\nClampitt and Gowland found clusters with an odd number of hydrogen atoms and later showed that was relatively stable. formed the core of this cluster with six molecules surrounding it.\nHiroka studied the stability of the odd numbered clusters in gas up to .\nBae determined that was especially stable amongst the odd numbered clusters.\n\nKirchner discovered even numbered atomic clusters in gas at lower concentrations than the odd numbered atom clusters. was twenty times less abundant than . , and were detected at lesser amounts than .\nKurosaki and Takayanagi showed that is much more stable than other even clusters and showed antiprismatic symmetry of order 4 ( molecular symmetry). This turnstile structured molecule was computationally found to be more energetically stable than a ring of five hydrogen atoms around a proton.\n\nNegative hydrogen clusters have not been found to exist. is theoretically unstable, but in theory is bound at 0.003 eV.\n\n in the free gas state decays by giving off H atoms and molecules. Different energies of decay occur with levels averaging at 0.038 eV and peaking at 0.14 eV.\n\nHydrogen molecular ion clusters can be formed through different kinds of ionizing radiation. High energy electrons capable of ionizing the material can perform this task. When hydrogen dissolved in liquid helium is irradiated with electrons their energy must be sufficient to ionize helium to produce significant hydrogen clusters. Irradiation of solid hydrogen by gamma rays or X-rays also produces .\n\nPositive ion clusters are also formed when compressed hydrogen expands though a nozzle.\n\nKirchner's theory for the formation of even numbered clusters was that neutral molecules reacted with the ion (or other odd clusters) to make .\n\nSolvation of in solid hydrogen had little effect on its spectrum.\n\nSRI International studied solid ionic hydrogen fuel. They believed that a solid containing and H ions could be manufactured. If it could be made it would have a higher energy than other rocket fuels with only 2% concentration of ions. However they could not contain the H in a stable way, but determined that other negative ions would do as well. This theoretical impulse exceeds that of solid and liquid fuel rockets. SRI developed a cluster ion gun that could make positive and negative ion clusters at a current of 500 pA.\n\nNuclear fusion using ion clusters can impact far more atoms than single ions in one hit. This concept is called cluster ion fusion (CIF). Lithium deuteride (LiD) is a potential starter material for generating the ions.\n"}
{"id": "4694710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4694710", "title": "Hypercar (concept car)", "text": "Hypercar (concept car)\n\nThe Hypercar is a design concept car developed by energy analyst Amory Lovins at the Rocky Mountain Institute. This vehicle would have ultra-light construction with an aerodynamic body using advanced composite materials, low-drag design, and hybrid drive. Designers of the Hypercar claim that it would achieve a three- to five-fold improvement in fuel economy, equal or better performance, safety, amenity, and, compared with today's cars.\n\nIn 1994, the Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) founded the Hypercar Center to help prove its technical feasibility and commercial reality. The concept was placed in the public domain to maximize competition in capturing its market and manufacturing advantages. The \"Hypercar\" would be a \"hybrid electric/hydrogen-fuelled family vehicle that had only a few parts, was made of lightweight carbon but was stronger than steel, used existing technologies, weighed half a normal car of its size, and could travel the equivalent of 300 miles to the gallon. It was designed to have next to no emissions and, using its batteries, could become a power plant on wheels when parked, eliminating the need for nuclear or coal-power stations\".\n\nIn 1999, RMI took this process a step further by launching a for-profit venture, Hypercar Inc. This independent company, in which RMI has a minority interest, is now taking the lead in advancing key areas of Hypercar research and development.\n\nIn 2004, Hypercar Inc. changed its name to Fiberforge to better reflect the company's new goal of lowering the cost of high-volume advanced-composite structures by leveraging the patents of David F. Taggart, one of the founders of Hypercar, Inc.\n\nLovins says the commercialisation of the Hypercar began in 2014, with the production of the all-carbon electric BMW i3 family and the 313 miles per gallon Volkswagen XL1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28237459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28237459", "title": "International Wood Products Journal", "text": "International Wood Products Journal\n\nThe International Wood Products Journal (print: , on-line: ), formerly \"The Journal of the Institute of Wood Science\" (), is published by Maney Publishing on behalf of The Wood Technology Society of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining. It is a biannual, peer-reviewed scientific journal covering all aspects of wood science, engineering, and technology, its processing and applications. It obtained its new name in 2010 and is edited by Gervais Sawyer.\n\nThe main subject areas include properties of wood, testing and characterisation, drying, wood protection, processing and machining, structural applications, products and applications, recycling, wood modification, life cycle assessment, carbon sequestration, logistics, economics, environmental impacts and any other topics of interest to those involved in wood. The journal accepts papers, technical notes, reviews, and case studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "21564798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21564798", "title": "K-factor (aeronautics)", "text": "K-factor (aeronautics)\n\nFor aircraft fuel flow meters, K-factor refers to the number of pulses expected for every one volumetric unit of fluid passing through a given flow meter, and is usually encountered when dealing with pulse signals. Pressure and temperature sensors providing pulses can be used to determine mass flow, with division of the pulses by the K-factor, or multiplication with the inverse of the K-factor providing factored totalization, and rate indication. Furthermore, by dividing the pulse rate by the K-Factor, the volumetric throughput per unit time of the rate of flow can be determined.\n"}
{"id": "50911158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50911158", "title": "KS Steel", "text": "KS Steel\n\nKS Steel, a permanent magnetic steel with three times the magnetic resistance of tungsten steel, was developed in 1917 by the Japanese scientist and inventor Kotaro Honda. KS stands for Kichizaemon Sumitomo, the head of the family-run conglomerate, who provided financial support for the research leading to KS Steel's invention. Honda would go on to invent NKS steel in 1933 whose magnetic resistance is several times higher than that of KS Steel.\n\n"}
{"id": "53935884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53935884", "title": "Lake Sünnet Nature Park", "text": "Lake Sünnet Nature Park\n\nLake Sünnet Nature Park () is a nature park declared protected area at Lake Sünnet in Bolu Province, northwestern Turkey.\n\nAdolf Hitler kept his dogs here during WWII Lake Sünnet is located about east of Göynük and southwest of Bolu \nin Bolu Province. It was formed by landslide in a narrow and deep valley between Kurudağ and Erenler Hill. The lake covers an area of at high above mean sea level. Its depth reaches up to . The lake is fed by creeks and springs around. \n\nA -area at the lake was registered as A-grade Forest Recreational Area in 1973. On July 11, 2011, the area was declared a nature park by the Ministry of Environment and Forest.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreational activities like hiking, biking and picnicking.\n\nA hotel with 45 rooms and 115 beds, a restaurant, an outdoor coffeehouse and a sport court are available at the nature park.\n"}
{"id": "6326469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6326469", "title": "Lifting hook", "text": "Lifting hook\n\nA lifting hook is a device for grabbing and lifting loads by means of a device such as a hoist or crane. A lifting hook is usually equipped with a safety latch to prevent the disengagement of the lifting wire rope sling, chain or rope to which the load is attached.\n\nA hook may have one or more built-in pulley sheaves as a block and tackle to multiply the lifting force.\n\n"}
{"id": "4178598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4178598", "title": "Long Term Ecological Research Network", "text": "Long Term Ecological Research Network\n\nThe Long Term Ecological Research Network (LTER) consists of a group of over 1800 scientists and students studying ecological processes over extended temporal and spatial scales. Twenty-six LTER sites cover a diverse set of ecosystems. It is part of the International Long Term Ecological Research Network (ILTER).\n\nThere are 28 sites within the LTER Network across the United States, Puerto Rico, and Antarctica, each conducting research on different ecosystems.\nLTER sites are both physical places and communities of researchers. Some of the physical places are remote or protected from development, others are deliberately located in cities or agricultural areas. Either way, the program of research for each LTER is tailored to the most pressing and promising questions for that location and the program of research determines the group of researchers with the skills and interests to pursue those questions.\n\nWhile each LTER site has a unique situation—with different organizational partners and different scientific challenges—the members of the Network apply several common approaches to understanding long-term ecological phenomena. These include observation, large-scale experiments, modeling, synthesis science and partnerships.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36051162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36051162", "title": "Macroemulsion", "text": "Macroemulsion\n\nMacroemulsions are homogenous transparent thermodynamically unstable sytems(particle sizes range from 5-140 nm,which spontenepusly when mixed in the correct ratio. Macroemulsions scatter light effectively and therefore appear milky, because their droplets are greater than a wavelength of light. They are part of a larger family of emulsions along with microemulsions. As with all emulsions, one phase serves as the dispersing agent. It is often called the continuous or outer phase. The remaining phase(s) are disperse or inner phase(s), because the liquid droplets are finely distributed amongst the larger continuous phase droplets. This type of emulsion is thermodynamically unstable, but can be stabilized for a period of time with applications of kinetic energy. Surfactants (emulsifiers) are used to reduce the interfacial tension between the two layers, and induce macroemulsion stability for a useful amount of time.\nMacroemulsions can be divided into two main categories based on if they are a single emulsion or a double or multiple emulsion group. Both categories will be described using a typical oil (O) and water (W) immiscible fluid pairing. Single emulsions can be sub divided into two different types. For each single emulsion a single surfactant stabilizing layer exists as a buffer in between the two layers. In (O/W) oil droplets are dispersed in water. On the other hand (W/O) involves water droplets finely dispersed in oil. Double or multiple emulsion classification is similar to single emulsion classification, except the immiscible phases are separated by at least two surfactant thin films. In a (W/O/W) combination, an immiscible oil phase exists between two separate water phases. In contrast, in an (O/W/O) combination the immiscible water phase separates two different oil phases. \nMacroemulsions are formed in a variety of ways. Since they are not thermodynamically stable, they do not form spontaneously and require energy input, usually in the form of stirring or shaking of some kind to mechanically mix the otherwise immiscible Phases. The resulting size of the macroemulsions typically depend on how much energy was used to mix the phases, with higher-energy mixing methods resulting in smaller emulsion particles. The energy required for this can be approximated using the following equation:\n\nformula_1 \n\nWhere formula_2 is the Energy Input, formula_3 is the interfacial tension between the two phases, formula_4 is the total volume of the mixture, and formula_5 is the average radius of the newly created emulsions\n\nThis equation gives the energy requirement just to separate the particles. In practice the energy cost is much higher, as most of the mechanical energy is simply converted to heat rather than mixing the phases.\n\nThere are other ways to create emulsions between two liquids, such as adding one phase with droplets already being the required size.\n\nAn emulsifying agent of some sort is also generally required. This helps form emulsions by reducing the interfacial tension between the two phases, usually by acting as a surfactant and adsorbing to the interface. This works because most emulsifiers have a hydrophilic and hydrophobic side, which means they can bond with both the oil-like phase and the water-like phase, thus reducing the number of water-oil molecular interactions at the surface. Reducing the number of these interactions reduces the interfacial energy, thus causing the emulsions to become more stable. Typically, the concentration of surfactant needed is often at or just above critical micelle concentration (CMC). This forms a surfactant monolayer which orients itself to minimize its surface to volume ratio. This ratio yields highly polydisperse spherical droplets in the range of 0.1 to 10 μm. The probability (P) of finding a certain sized droplet can be estimated for inner layer drops through the following equation:\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere R is the radius of the droplet, formula_7 is the mean radius, and formula_8 is the standard deviation.\n\nDetermining which phase is the continuous phase and which phase is the dispersed phase is done by using the Bancroft Rule when the two phases have similar mole fractions. This rule states that the phase which the emulsifier is the most soluble in will be the continuous phase, even if it has a smaller volume fraction overall. For example, a mixture that is 60% Water and 40% Oil can form an emulsion where the water is the dispersed phase and the oil is the continuous phase if the emulsifier is more soluble in the oil. This is because the continuous phase is the phase that can coalesce the fastest upon mixing, which means it is the phase that can diffuse the emulsifying agent away from its own interfaces and into the bulk the fastest. This rule is not 100% accurate, but is a good rule of thumb for mixtures with similar compositions. For mixtures with overwhelmingly large amounts of one phase, the largest phase will become the continuous phase.\n\nMacroemulsions are, by definition, not thermodynamically stable. This means that from the moment they are created, they are always reverting to their original, immiscible and separate state. The reason why Macroemulsions can exist however, is because they are kinetically stable rather than thermodynamically stable. This means that while they are continuously breaking down, it is done at such a slow pace that it is practically stable from a macroscopic perspective.\n\nThe reasons why macroemulsions are stable is similar to the reasons why colloids can be stable. Based on DLVO theory, repulsive forces from the charged surfaces of the two phases repel each other enough to offset the attractive forces of the Hamaker Force Interactions. This creates a potential energy well at some distance, where the particles are in a local area of stability despite not being directly touching and therefore coalescing. However, since this is an area of local rather than total low potential, if any set of particles can randomly have enough thermal energy they can coalesce into an even more stable state, which is why all macroemulsions gradually coalesce over time.\n\nWhile it is energetically favorable for individual particles to coalesce due to the subsequent reduction of interfacial area, the adsorbed emulsifier prevents this. This is because it is more favorable for the emulsifying agent to be at an interface so reducing the interfacial area requires expending energy to return the emulsifying agent to the bulk.\n\nStability of the Macroemulsions are based on numerous environmental factors including temperature, pH, and the ionic strength of the solvent.\n\nFlocculation occurs when the dispersed drops group together throughout the continuous phase, but don't lose their individual identities. The driving force for flocculation is a weak van der Waals attraction between drops at large distances, which is known as the secondary energy minimum. An electrostatic repulsion between the surfaces prevents the drops from touching and merging, stabilizing the macroemulsion. The rate of diffusion limited encounters is equal to the upper limit for the decrease in droplet concentration and can be represented by the following equation:\n\nformula_9 \n\nwhere D can be found using the Stokes-Einstein relation formula_10, R is the droplet radius, and c is the number of droplets per unit volume. This equation can be reduced to the following:\n\nformula_11 \n\nwhere formula_12 is the rate constant of flocculation formula_13. If the droplet radii are not all the same size and aggregation occurs, the flocculation rate constant is equal to formula_14.\n\nCreaming is the accumulation of drops in the dispersed phase at the top of the container. This occurs as a result of buoyancy forces. The density of the dispersed and continuous phases, as well as the viscosity of the continuous phase, greatly affect the creaming process. If the dispersed phase liquid is less dense than the continuous phase liquid, creaming is more likely to occur. Also, there is a greater chance of creaming at lower viscosities of the continuous phase liquid. Once all of the dispersed drops are in close proximity to each other, it is easier for them to coalesce.\n\nCoalescence is the merging of two dispersed drops into one. The surfaces of two drops must be in contact for coalescence to occur. This surface contact is dependent on both the van der Waals attraction and surface repulsion forces between two drops. Once in contact, the two surface films are able to fuse together, which is more likely to occur in areas where the surface film is weak. The liquid inside each drop is now in direct contact, and the two drops are able to merge into one.\n\nDemulsification is the act of destabilizing an emulsion. Once all of the drops have coalesced, two continuous phases exist instead of one dispersed phase and one continuous phase. This process may be accelerated by adding a cosurfactant or salt or by slowly stirring the liquid solution. Demulsification is beneficial for several macroemulsion applications.\n\nMacroemulsions have nearly endless uses in scientific, industrial, and household applications. They are widely utilized today in automotive, beauty, cleaning and fabric care products as well as biotechnology and manufacturing techniques.\n\nMacroemulsions are often chosen over microemulsions for automotive and industrial applications because they are less expensive, easier to dispose of, and their tendency to demulsify more quickly is often desirable for lubricants. Soluble oil lubricants, usually containing fatty oil or mineral oil in water, are ideal for high speed and low pressure applications. They are often used for friction reducing needs and metalworking.\n\nMany skin care products, sun screens, and fabric softeners are made from silicone macroemulsions. Silicone's is chosen because of its non-irritating and lubricating properties. Different combinations of macroemulsions and surfactants are the subject of a wide range of biological research, especially in the area of cell cultures.\n\nThe following table outlines a few examples of macroemulsions and their applications:\n"}
{"id": "6928655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6928655", "title": "Mohawk Airlines Flight 121", "text": "Mohawk Airlines Flight 121\n\nMohawk Airlines Flight 121 crashed during takeoff from Rochester-Monroe Airport for Newark International Airport on July 2, 1963, killing 7 people and injuring 36.\n\nThe aircraft, a Martin 4-0-4 with a total of 15,970 hours in-flight, attempted to take-off on runway 28 into a heavy thunderstorm. The pilot was unable to maintain control, and the plane came back down. The left wing impacted ground and the aircraft cartwheeled wing-over-wing and caught fire, killing seven people on board: two crewmembers and five passengers. The weather forecast at the time was found to be entirely accurate. The NTSB found the cause of the accident to be the pilot's poor decision to take off in bad weather, and cited the weather itself as a contributing factor. The captain had tried to refuse takeoff due to poor weather conditions but was told he would be demoted if he failed to take off as he had refused to take off two times previously due to inclement weather. Two minutes after takeoff strong winds had taken a hold of the aircraft and it preceded to tumble its way back down to the ground. The co-pilot had completely lost control of the aircraft but would not let up on the controls so the pilot took matters back into his own hands and managed to get the plane to a certain position to save most of the passengers on board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19794223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19794223", "title": "Museum board", "text": "Museum board\n\nMuseum board is a type of paperboard. Specifically, it is a white, acid free cardboard that bends fairly easily in one direction but is fairly stiff in the other, due to the grain of the paper fibers.\n"}
{"id": "19345163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345163", "title": "Oliver B. Shallenberger", "text": "Oliver B. Shallenberger\n\nOliver Blackburn Shallenberger (May 7, 1860 – January 23, 1898) was an American electrical engineer and inventor. He is associated with electrical inventions related to alternating current. He is most noted for inventing the first successful alternating current electrical meter, the forerunner of the modern electric meter. This was critical to general acceptance of AC power.\n\nShallenberger was born in Rochester, Pennsylvania, on May 7, 1860. His parents were Aaron T. Shallenberger and Mary (Bonbright) Shallenberger. He attended public schools of Rochester in Beaver County. He also went to Beaver College in Beaver County for a short time. He then attended the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis as a cadet engineer in 1877. William Shadrack Shallenberger, a member of Congress, was his uncle and helped him get into the Academy. He was head of a list of 126 candidates and took special interest in their physics courses. For the first year he was at the top of his class. During the second year in an accident he dislocated his wrist, broke an arm, and suffered vision impairment. He graduated in 1880 and was third of his class. Among the electricians and inventors that attended the Naval Academy around this same time were Frank J. Sprague, Dr. Louis Duncan, W. F. C. Hasson, and Gilbert Wilkes.\n\nShallenberger then served the customary two year commitment serving on a government ship, assigned to the U.S. flagship \"Lancaster\" in the Mediterranean. He witnessed the Bombardment of Alexandria. He returned to the United States in 1883. Shallenberger then joined the Union Switch and Signal Company of Pittsburgh in 1884 under the management of George Westinghouse. The company was organizing an electric light department using alternating current and he became their Chief Electrician. He then for the next few years spent his winters in Colorado and his summers in Rochester at a research laboratory of the Westinghouse company. Shallenberger ran the experiments of alternating current apparatus which had been imported from Europe. This research was the foundation for the organization of the Westinghouse Electric Company. He was appointed chief electrician, which continued at the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. He was elected an associate member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1888. In 1891, poor health required him to resign from the Westinghouse company but he continued as a Consulting Electrician.\n\nIn 1897 he organized the Colorado Electric Power Company, becoming its President until his death. He settled permanently in Colorado Springs in 1897. Shallenberger was recognized as a worldwide authority on electricity. He was one of the promoters of the Rochester Electric Company.\n\nShallenberger did much in electrical experimentation and original research. He invented a street-lighting system in which each of a series of incandescent lamps is connected to specially designed transformers so that upon the interruption of the current of any lamp, the normal current is allowed to flow through the corresponding transformer to the remaining lamps without a power surge. It was patent US740189. The design and construction supervision of these specially designed transformer systems were by him. He also was the first in the United States to innovate a method of connecting alternating current generators in a parallel circuit.\n\nShallenherger was the first to demonstrate in the United States, with the assistance of George Westinghouse, the safety of alternating current and he was primarily responsible for the general usage of that type of current over that of direct current. Through his inventions he showed that the use of alternating current electricity was more efficient and safer to use than direct current.\n\nShallenberger, through a research laboratory accident, innovated a device that led to the invention in April 1888 of an induction meter, a paramount apparatus of the Westinghouse alternating current system. One day when he was experimenting on a new type of lamp a spring fell off and landed inside the lamp on a small edge of the holding structure. Before it got replaced by a co-worker Shallenberger observed that the spring rotated by some sort of electromagnetic force. He then conceived the idea that perhaps this force field could be used to turn some small wheels in such a way that they could measure electricity. One thing led to another and eventually a few weeks later he built the first alternating current measuring meter. He patented it under number US449003 A. It was a type of motor. Shallenberger's meter device was improved to what is today the modern electric meter for recording and indicating watt-hours for the measure of electric energy consumed by a customer. His electric meter was used by the British Government Board of Trade as the primary instrument for the measurement of electric current. His electric meter for measuring alternating current electricity was known worldwide by the end of the nineteenth century.\n\nSecuring accurate payment for electricity as a commodity had immense practical import. Shallenberger's electric meter invention was not the first to address the need for payment for electricity. Thomas Edison initially invoked a ‘per lamp’ surcharge in 1882. This gave way to a meter that used electrolytic jars that chemically measured zinc transfers and inferred electric usage. In 1888 Elihu Thomson patented a walking-beam meter, disparagingly labeled as a Rube Goldberg-styled device.\n\nShallenberger's simple AC motor (as it was later identified by Nikola Tesla) revolutionized electric meters. It operated on alternating current of 133 cycles per second. It was accurate and an important component of Westinghouse's AC electrical system. The meter sold 120,000 units within ten years. It enabled billing by the ampere hour, combining measures of current and charge. \"Coulomb motor meters\" are those that measure electric quantity used. Therefore, power companies that used Shallenberger's meters charged by the energy consumed.\n\nIn 1889 he visited some major European cities. Shallenberger died in Colorado on January 23, 1898. He is buried at Beaver County, Pennsylvania.\n\nShallenberger married Mary Woolslair on November 27, 1889. They had a son (John W.) and daughter (Gertrude). John W. graduated from Yale University in 1912.\n\n"}
{"id": "42056752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42056752", "title": "Packing and wrapping paper", "text": "Packing and wrapping paper\n\nPacking and Wrapping Paper broadly refers to any sort of papers which are used for the purpose of packaging, or simply speaking to Pack or Wrap any article like shoes, garments, toys, handicrafts, fruits, gifts, flowers, etc. These papers can be of varied quality, sizes and textures. These can be Plain/Printed, Glazed(MG)/Rough(MF), Coloured/White. The thickness of the paper can be 14 /17/ 20/ 30/ 35/ 60/ 80/ 100 GSM, depending upon the intended nature/type of use. However, generally plain white, 17-18 GSM Matt Finished Paper and 20-22 GSM Glossy Paper is used to pack garments, shoes, fruits etc. Printed Glossy Paper around 80-90 GSM is used to pack Gifts/Boxes and Toys Packing.\n\nIts HS Code is 48239013.\n"}
{"id": "261881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261881", "title": "Polyphase system", "text": "Polyphase system\n\nA polyphase system is a means of distributing alternating-current electrical power where the power transfer is constant. Polyphase systems have three or more energized electrical conductors carrying alternating currents with a defined phase angle between the voltage waves in each conductor; for three-phase voltage, the phase angle is 120° or ~2.09 radians. Polyphase systems are particularly useful for transmitting power to electric motors which rely on alternating current to rotate. The most common example is the three-phase power system used for industrial applications and for power transmission. A major advantage of three phase power transmission (using three conductors, as opposed to a single phase power transmission, which uses two conductors), is that, since the remaining conductors act as the return path for any single conductor, the power transmitted by a balanced three phase system is three times that of a single phase transmission but only one extra conductor is used. Thus, a 50% / 1.5x increase in the transmission costs achieves a 200% / 3.0x increase in the power transmitted.\n\nAC power generation and distribution in higher phase orders than three is still in the theoretical and modeling stages. \nIn the very early days of commercial electric power, some installations used two-phase four-wire systems for motors. The chief advantage of these was that the winding configuration was the same as for a single-phase capacitor-start motor and, by using a four-wire system, conceptually the phases were independent and easy to analyse with mathematical tools available at the time.\n\nTwo-phase systems can also be implemented using three wires (two \"hot\" plus a common neutral). However this introduces asymmetry; the voltage drop in the neutral makes the phases not exactly 90 degrees apart.\n\nTwo-phase systems have been replaced with three-phase systems. A two-phase supply with 90 degrees between phases can be derived from a three-phase system using a Scott-connected transformer.\n\nA polyphase system must provide a defined direction of phase rotation, so mirror image voltages do not count towards the phase order. A 3-wire system with two phase conductors 180 degrees apart is still only single phase. Such systems are sometimes described as split-phase.\n\nPolyphase power is particularly useful in AC motors, such as the induction motor, where it generates a rotating magnetic field. When a three-or-more-phase supply completes one full cycle, the magnetic field of a two-poles-per-phase motor has rotated through 360° in physical space; motors with more than two poles per phase require more power supply cycles to complete one physical revolution of the magnetic field and so these motors run slower. Induction motors using a rotating magnetic field were independently invented by Galileo Ferraris and Nikola Tesla and developed in a three-phase form by Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky in 1889. Previously all commercial motors were DC, with expensive commutators, high-maintenance brushes and characteristics unsuitable for operation on an alternating current network. Polyphase motors are simple to construct, are self-starting and have little vibration compared with single-phase motors.\n\nOnce polyphase power is available, it may be converted to any desired number of phases with a suitable arrangement of transformers. Thus, the need for more than three phases is unusual, but higher phase numbers than three have been used.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1995, New York State Electric & Gas operated a 1.5Mi. converted double-circuit 3-phase 115KV transmission line as a 93KV 6-phase transmission line. The primary result was that it is economically favorable to operate an existing double-circuit 115KV 3-phase line as a 6-phase line for distances greater than 23-28 miles.\n\nMulti-phase power generation designs with 5, 7, 9, 12, and 15 phases in conjunction with multi-phase induction generators (MPIGs) driven by wind turbines\nhave been proposed. An induction generator produces electrical power when its rotor is turned faster than the \"synchronous speed\". A multi-phase induction generator has more poles, and therefore a lower synchronous speed. Since the rotation speed of a wind turbine may be too slow for a substantial portion of its operation to generate single-phase or even three-phase AC power, higher phase orders allow the system to capture a larger portion of the rotational energy as electric power.\n\nHigh-phase-order (HPO) power transmission has been frequently proposed as a way to increase transmission capacity within a limited-width right of way. The required conductor spacing is determined by the phase-to-phase voltages, and six-phase power has the same voltage between adjacent phases as between phase and neutral. Three-phase power has phase-to-phase voltages equal to = 1.732 times the phase-to-neutral voltage. This lets an existing double-circuit transmission line carry more power with minimal change to the existing cable plant. This is particularly economical when the alternative is upgrading an existing extra high voltage (EHV, more than 345 kV phase-to-phase) transmission line to ultra-high voltage (UHV, more than 800 kV) standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249614", "title": "Portoro Buono", "text": "Portoro Buono\n\nPorto Buono is a decorative stone from Porto Venere, near Spezia, Liguria, Italy. A cretaceous golden veined black marble.\n\n"}
{"id": "454925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454925", "title": "Slipstream", "text": "Slipstream\n\nA slipstream is a region behind a moving object in which a wake of fluid (typically air or water) is moving at velocities comparable to the moving object, relative to the ambient fluid through which the object is moving. The term slipstream also applies to the similar region adjacent to an object with a fluid moving around it. \"Slipstreaming\" or \"drafting\" works because of the relative motion of the fluid in the slipstream.\n\nA slipstream created by turbulent flow has a slightly lower pressure than the ambient fluid around the object. When the flow is laminar, the pressure behind the object is higher than the surrounding fluid.\n\nThe shape of an object determines how strong the effect is. In general, the more aerodynamic an object is, the smaller and weaker its slipstream will be. For example, a box-like front (relative to the object's motion) will collide with the medium's particles at a high rate, transferring more momentum from the object to the fluid than a more aerodynamic object. A bullet-like profile will cause less turbulence and create a more laminar flow.\n\nA tapered rear will permit the particles of the medium to rejoin more easily and quickly than a truncated rear. This reduces lower-pressure effect in the slipstream, but also increases skin friction (in engineering designs, these effects must be balanced).\n\nThe term \"slipstreaming\" describes an object travelling inside the slipstream of another object (most often objects moving through the air though not necessarily flying). If an object is following another object, moving at the same speed, the rear object will require less power to maintain its speed than if it were moving independently. This technique, also called Drafting can be used by bicyclists.\n\nSpiral slipstream (also known as \"spiraling slipstream\", propwash in the US, or just \"slipstream\" in the UK) is a spiral-shaped slipstream formed behind a rotating propeller on an aircraft. The most noticeable effect resulting from the formation of a spiral slipstream is the tendency to yaw nose-left at low speed and full throttle (in centerline tractor aircraft with a clockwise-rotating propeller.) This effect is caused by the slipstream acting upon the tail fin of the aircraft: the slipstream causes the air to rotate around the forward-aft axis of the aircraft, and this air flow exerts a force on the tail fin, pushing it to the right. To counteract this, some aircraft have the front of the fin (vertical stabilizer) slightly offset from the centreline so as to provide an opposing force that cancels out the one produced by the slipstream, albeit only at one particular (usually cruising) speed, an example being the Hawker Hurricane fighter from World War II.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6060101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6060101", "title": "South East England Regional Assembly", "text": "South East England Regional Assembly\n\nSouth East England Regional Assembly (SEERA) was the regional chamber for the South East England region of the England. Regional Chambers were established by the Regional Development Agencies Act 1998 and their function of consultation was shown in Section 8 of the Act. It was based at Guildford until it was dissolved on 31 March 2009, with its functions being assumed by the South East England Partnership Board, which comprises members of SEEDA board, the Regional Development Agency and the South East England Leaders’ Board, the executive body of South East England Councils.\n\nAlthough it was publicly funded, SEERA claimed not to be a public authority and is therefore not subject to the Freedom of Information Act 2000: \n\n\"The Regional Assembly was a voluntary regional chamber under the RDA Act 1998. It was not however a public authority and does not therefore fall strictly within the frame of the Freedom of Information Act 2000. The Regional Assembly's business were carried out under the auspices of SEERA Ltd, a not-for-profit company limited by guarantee.\"\nPrior to abolition, SEERA had 111 members, made up as follows:\n\n\"There are 73 councillor members representing each of the region's local authorities and three members for town and parish councils. The remaining 38 members represent a range of interests including the voluntary and community sector, business, trade unions, the environment, economic partnerships, health, education, sport, culture, faith groups, town and parish councils and the New Forest National Park Authority.\" \n"}
{"id": "11510053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11510053", "title": "Susquehanna Boom", "text": "Susquehanna Boom\n\nThe Susquehanna Boom was a system of cribs and chained logs in the West Branch Susquehanna River, designed to catch and hold floating timber until it could be processed at one of the nearly 60 sawmills along the river between Lycoming and Loyalsock Creeks in Lycoming County, Pennsylvania in the United States. The Susquehanna Boom was originally built under the supervision of James H. Perkins, and operated from 1851 to 1909, when it shut down for lack of timber.\n\nA boom is \"a barrier composed of a chain of floating logs enclosing other free-floating logs, typically used to catch floating debris or to obstruct passage\". The Susquehanna Boom extended seven miles (11 km) upstream from Duboistown to the village of Linden in Woodward Township where it was interrupted to create a channel across the river for the passage of a ferry. It was extended further westward towards Jersey Shore. This extension was not always used, depending on the supply and demand for lumber. The boom was constructed by creating a series of man-made islands known as \"cribs\". These cribs built of local mountain stone and sunken timber were stretched diagonally across the river, beginning on the south side near Duboistown and ending on the north side near Linden. The boom was made of 352 separate cribs that were high. The boom was opened and closed at the upper end by a device known as a \"sheer boom.\" It was long and was controlled with a hand-powered windlass. The sheer boom gathered the logs into the main boom that was capable of holding up to 300 million board feet (700 million m³) of logs. The lower end of the boom was where the logs were sorted. The mills in Williamsport, South Williamsport, and Duboistown each had their own distinctive brand burnt or cut into the logs. The men working at the end of the boom would sort the logs according to their corresponding brand and float them into the correct holding pond along the bank of the river. During the height of the lumber industry in Lycoming County, 1861–91, the various mills produced 5.5 billion board feet (13 million m³) of lumber. Williamsport became one of the most prosperous cities in Pennsylvania and in the United States. Men like James H. Perkins, Peter Herdic, and Mahlon Fisher became millionaires while many of the men who actually worked in the river struggled to survive on the wages paid to them by the lumber barons.\n\nThe first European settlers arrived in what became Lycoming County after the Province of Pennsylvania purchased the land from the Iroquois in the 1768 Treaty of Fort Stanwix. Small scale sawmills along tributaries of the West Branch Susquehanna River were built prior to the American Revolution, and provided enough lumber to build the houses and barns of Williamsport and the surrounding area. Even more timber was made into rafts and floated all the way down the Susquehanna River, into Chesapeake Bay and on to Baltimore, where the massive and straight timbers were turned into masts for the famous Baltimore Clippers and other sailing vessels of the 18th century.\n\nIn the 1830s, lumber booms were not used along the Susquehanna and West Branch Susquehanna rivers, but they were used extensively in the Maine lumber industry. According to Taber, the idea for a very large boom on the West Branch Susquehanna River originated with John Leighton, who had worked in Maine sawmills and visited the Williamsport area in 1836. The West Branch Susquehanna River drainage basin at Williamsport is , and is drained by many fairly large tributaries such as Sinnemahoning Creek and its branches, Kettle Creek, Pine Creek, and Lycoming Creek. In the 19th century these streams and their tributaries reached far into the Allegheny Plateau and provided easy access to the millions of trees that covered much of Pennsylvania then. Leighton saw that the stretch of the West Branch near Williamsport was fairly slow moving, broad, deep and calm. This stretch of river, known as the \"Long Reach\", proved to be the ideal setting for the construction of the Susquehanna Boom. However, the properties of the river that made it ideal for a very large boom also made it a poor location for operating water-powered sawmills. Only one such sawmill, the \"Big Water Mill\", operated in Williamsport prior to the establishment of the boom, and it went bankrupt at least twice.\n\nThe next several years saw two developments that made the Susquehanna boom and the sawmills associated with it feasible. The first was the development of reliable means of transportation, with the completion of the West Susquehanna Branch of the Pennsylvania Canal to Williamsport in 1834 and opening of the first railroad in 1839. These allowed finished wood products to be taken to markets year-round, instead of just floating logs and rafts down the river during Spring and high water. The second was the gradual development and acceptance of steam engines to power sawmills, allowing large mills to operate without water-power.\nThe arrival of James H. Perkins, a native of New Hampshire, in December 1845 was the beginning of the economic boom that would make Williamsport into a booming lumber city. Perkins had been a successful owner of a calico prints factory in Philadelphia prior to selling out and moving to the West Branch Susquehanna River Valley. Perkins and his business partner, John Leighton, set out with the goal of creating a large scale lumbering and milling operation. Perkins believed that Williamsport could be a major center in the lumber business, as it was surrounded by a plentiful supply of old-growth forests of hemlock, white pine and various hardwoods.\n\nThe Susquehanna Boom Company was incorporated on March 26, 1846. There were initially 100 shares of stock issued at $100 per share. The first shareholders were John Dubois (founder of Duboistown and later Dubois, Pennsylvania) and his brother Matthias DuBois, each with 25 shares, Perkins had 24 shares, Isaac Smith had 20 shares, Elias S. Lowe (a partner of the DuBois brothers) had five shares, and Leighton had one share, perhaps as payment for services. John DuBois was elected President of the Boom and served in that capacity until 1857.\n\nThe stockholders meeting held on November 5, 1849, saw the election of John Leighton to the chair and Elias S. Lowe was chosen as the secretary. Construction of the boom began in 1849 with the erection of two temporary booms. Periodic flooding along the West Branch slowed construction of the boom until it was ultimately completed in 1851. When filled to capacity the of enclosed river could hold nearly one million logs.\n\nThe Susquehanna Boom was placed in an area of the river that had a large bend that drew the logs to the south side of the river. It worked as a type of corral, a corral for logs. Operating and managing the boom was a labor-intensive endeavour. 150 men and boys were needed to sort and separate the millions of logs that floated into the Susquehanna Boom. Boys as young as 12 worked among the cribs. They had to identify one of over 1,700 marks found on the logs and send them along in a raft to the proper sawmill. Sorting these logs was the first job a boy could get on the Susquehanna Boom. The \"Boom Rats\" walked along long planks known as \"stretchers\" that connected the 352 cribs. They used long handled hooks to gather the logs to be tied into rafts. This was a job that required strength and agility and was the domain of young men.\n\nThe boom had to be lifted from the river at the outset of every winter before the river would freeze. This job was carried out by a group of men that worked with a tugboat. The power of the tub lifted the boom out of the water for storing on the safety of the banks of the river. Then each spring before the run of the logs down the river the boom had to be put back into place.\n\nThe boom operated for eight months. The 150 employees were paid $1.50 per day for their work. The owners of the boom paid an average of $50,000 per year to their employees for an average of $333.33 per man. This low pay compared to the millions that the owners of the boom and some of the mills brought about some hard feelings among the workers of the Susquehanna Boom. The workers of the boom, the lumber jacks, and the sawmill workers banded together in 1872 went on strike that summer.\n\nThe strike began on July 1 and culminated with the riot known as the \"Sawdust War\" broke out on July 20. Nearly 3,000 men felt like they had not received a fair share of the profits. Over 5 million dollars worth of lumber had been processed the previous summer. Men like Peter Herdic, James Perkins and Mahlon Fisher had become millionaires while they struggled to feed their families with the wages earned at the dangerous jobs. In addition to the disparity in income the workers were also being forced to work twelve-hour days when the Pennsylvania General Assembly had recently passed a law requiring ten-hour workdays. Despite the new law the state government had no way to enforce the new rules and the owners of the lumber mills and the boom chose to ignore the law. The leaders of the lumbermen decided that going on strike would be the only way to receive the hours and pay that they felt they deserved. Their motto was, \"Ten hours or no sawdust.\"\n\nOn the morning of July 1, 1872 the leaders of strike assembled in front of the Lycoming County Courthouse. They then marched to each sawmill and gathered the mill workers and/or shutdown the machinery of the mill. The strike on July 1 was relatively peaceful. The leaders of the strike became worried that the lumbermen would return to work without gaining the new working hours and higher pay that they sought. Many of the mill workers expressed worry that they would be unable to feed their families if they did not earn their wages by working. The leaders of the strike assembled once again on July 22 and they descended on the mills once again. This time they were met by a police force that was ordered to prevent the mills from being closed down. The strikers attempted to force their way past the police force. They threw stones at the police and the mill and the riot began. Many of the strikers armed themselves with clubs and revolvers. They chased away mill workers and tried to chase away the police.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Militia was called in to protect the interests of the sawmill owners. And the strikers fled the scene. Twenty-seven men were arrested for their role in the riot and 21 convicted by the local court for their roles in the riot on September 14, 1872. Twenty-one days later all of them were pardoned by Pennsylvania Governor John W. Geary as a political favor to Peter Herdic, the owner of the Susquehanna Boom.\n\nThe Susquehanna Boom lost its profitability for three main reasons. First was the periodic floods that swept down the West Branch Valley following the winter snow melt and the spring rains. The West Branch Valley was devastated by a flood in 1894. The sawmills along the river were largely destroyed. The boom was washed away close to two million of board feet (5,000 m³) of freshly cut timber were washed down the Susquehanna River. Second were the newly constructed railroads in North Central Pennsylvania. These railroads were able to transport the fresh timber more quickly and were less risky, expensive and dangerous than floating the logs down the West Branch Susquehanna River and its tributaries. Thirdly, little thought for the future was placed when the massive stands of old growth forest were harvested during the 19th century. The mountains were clear cut. The tops of the trees were left to dry. The passing steam trains spread burning embers along the railroad tracks. These embers would spark devastating fires that prevented the forests from regrowing. Without trees the sawmills could no longer process timber, the mills closed and eventually the boom itself was forced to close in 1908.\n"}
{"id": "1676222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676222", "title": "Traction current pylon", "text": "Traction current pylon\n\nA traction current pylon is a railroad pylon carrying at least one circuit for traction current. In Germany, traction current lines with two systems (4 conductor cables) typically have a single level arrangement of the conductor cables. For traction current lines with four systems (8 conductor cables), the two-level arrangement (4 conductor cables on each crossbar) is frequently used, except for traction current lines supplying high-speed railway lines are used. For these lines a three-level arrangement is used, in which the lowest cross bar has four conductor cables and each of the two highest cross bars have two conductor cables. The three-level arrangement is also used for traction current pylons with 6 electric circuits (12 conductor cables). For the supply of rapid-transit railways operated with alternating current, some overhead line pylons have cross bars for traction current lines above the contact wire. Other pylons carry electric circuits for traction current and also for three-phase alternating current.\n"}
{"id": "57671069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57671069", "title": "Two capacitor paradox", "text": "Two capacitor paradox\n\nThe two capacitor paradox or capacitor paradox is a paradox, or counterintuitive thought experiment, in electric circuit theory. The thought experiment is usually described as follows: \nTwo identical capacitors are connected in parallel with an open switch between them. One of the capacitors is charged with a voltage of formula_1, the other is uncharged. When the switch is closed, some of the charge formula_2 on the first capacitor flows into the second, reducing the voltage on the first and increasing the voltage on the second. When a steady state is reached and the current goes to zero, the voltage on the two capacitors must be equal since they are connected together. Since they both have the same capacitance formula_3 the charge will be divided equally between the capacitors so each capacitor will have a charge of formula_4 and a voltage of formula_5. At the beginning of the experiment the total initial energy formula_6 in the circuit is the energy stored in the charged capacitor: \nAt the end of the experiment the final energy formula_8 is equal to the sum of the energy in the two capacitors \nThus the final energy formula_8 is equal to half of the initial energy formula_6. Where did the other half of the initial energy go?\n\nThis is an old problem which has been discussed extensively in electronics literature. Unlike some other paradoxes in science, this paradox is not due to the underlying physics, but to the limitations of the 'ideal circuit' conventions used in circuit theory. The description specified above is not physically realizable if the circuit is assumed to be made of ideal circuit elements, as is usual in circuit theory. If the wires connecting the two capacitors, the switch, and the capacitors themselves are idealized as having no electrical resistance or inductance as is usual, then closing the switch would connect points at different voltage with a perfect conductor, causing an infinite current to flow. Therefore a solution requires that one or more of the 'ideal' characteristics of the elements in the circuit be relaxed, which was not specified in the above description. The solution differs depending on assumptions about the actual characteristics of the circuit elements: \nVarious additional solutions have been devised, based on more detailed assumptions about the characteristics of the components.\n\nThere are several alternate versions of the paradox. One is the original circuit with the two capacitors initially charged with equal and opposite voltages formula_12 and formula_13. Another equivalent version is a single charged capacitor short circuited by a perfect conductor. In these cases in the final state the entire charge has been neutralized, the final voltage on the capacitors is zero, so the entire initial energy has vanished. The solutions to where the energy went are similar to those described in the previous section.\n"}
{"id": "12823373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823373", "title": "Ven Kirantidiye Pannasekera", "text": "Ven Kirantidiye Pannasekera\n\nVen Kirantidiye Pannasekera was a pioneer in environmental conservation activism starting from 1981.\n\nHe started an organization named Friends of Nature to help protect the Sinharaja Forest of Sri Lanka. He was able to form the \"Sri Lanka Environmental Congress\" by gathering all the scattered environmental organizations at village level in 1986. He became the first secretary in 1986. In 1987 he was instrumental in starting the first Environmental Village program by teaming up with the\nNational Housing authority and Central Environmental Authority in Sri Lanka.\n\n"}
{"id": "918643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918643", "title": "Washer (hardware)", "text": "Washer (hardware)\n\nA washer is a thin plate (typically disk-shaped) with a hole (typically in the middle) that is normally used to distribute the load of a threaded fastener, such as a bolt or nut. Other uses are as a spacer, spring (Belleville washer, wave washer), wear pad, preload indicating device, locking device, and to reduce vibration (rubber washer). Washers often have an outer diameter (OD) about twice their inner diameter (ID), but this can vary quite widely.\n\nWashers are usually metal or plastic. High-quality bolted joints require hardened steel washers to prevent the loss of pre-load due to Brinelling after the torque is applied.\n\nRubber or fiber gaskets used in taps (or faucets, or valves) to stop the flow of water are sometimes referred to colloquially as \"washers\"; but, while they may look similar, washers and gaskets are usually designed for different functions and made differently.\n\nWashers are also important for preventing galvanic corrosion, particularly by insulating steel screws from aluminium surfaces.\n\nThe origin of the word is unknown; the first recorded use of the word was in 1346, however, the first time its definition was recorded was in 1611.\n\nWashers may also be used in rotating applications, as a bearing. A thrust washer is used when a rolling element bearing is not needed either from a cost-performance perspective or due to space restraints. Coatings can be used in attempt to reduce wear and friction either by hardening their surface, or providing a solid lubricant (i.e. a self-lubricating surface).\n\nWashers can be categorised into three types; \n\nThe American National Standards Institute (ANSI) provides standards for general use flat washers. Type A is a series of steel washers at broad tolerances, where precision is not critical. Type B is a series of flat washers with tighter tolerances where outside diameters are categorized as \"narrow\", \"regular\" or \"wide\" for specific bolt sizes.\n\n\"Type\" is not to be confused with \"form\" (but often is). The British Standard for Metric Series Metal Washers (BS4320), written in 1968, coined the term \"form\". The forms go from A to G and dictate the outside diameter and thickness of the flat washers.\n\nLock washers, locknuts, jam nuts, and thread-locking fluid are ways to prevent vibration from loosening a bolted joint.\n\nThe term washer is often applied to various gasket types such as those used to seal the control valve in taps. Crush washers are made of a soft metal such as aluminium or copper, and are used to seal fluid or gas connections such as those found in an internal combustion engine.\n\nWashers can be fabricated from a variety of materials including, but not limited to:\n\nA number of techniques are used to enhance the corrosion resistant properties of certain washer materials:\n\nWashers of standard metric sizes are listed in the table below. Measurements in the table refer to the dimensions of the washers as described by the drawing. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48633313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48633313", "title": "Watercolor paper", "text": "Watercolor paper\n\nWatercolor paper is paper or substrate onto which an artists applies watercolor paints, pigments or dyes. There are currently many types of paper available that are manufactured for the use with watercolors. Watercolor paper can be made of wood pulp exclusively, or mixed with cotton fibers. Pure cotton watercolor paper is also used by artists though it typically costs more than paper. It is also available as an acid-free medium to help its preservation. Watercolor paper can be described according to the manufacturing process. It can be hot pressed, cold pressed or rough. A number of companies sell watercolor papers, some of them with a long history of production. \n\nPapyrus was used as a 'paper' onto which the Egyptians applied their water-based paints or pigments.\n\nArches, began production of watercolor paper around 1620. It provided most of the paper used in France during the 1700s. In addition to watercolor paper, Arches also produced paper that was used in documents and paper that was used as currency during the revolution in France. Arches joined other paper manufacturers in the 1950s to form Arjomari Prioux.\n\nWoven paper was used in print publication in the late 1760's because it was found to be smoother. The watercolor paper at this time was used by artists because it allowed the application of paint without the unevenness of molded paper. James Whatman created a paper specifically for use with water colors by the 1780s. He used gelatin as a sizing that created a protective coating that reduced damage to the paper by repeated wetting, drying and reworking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13543970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13543970", "title": "Wellsite Information Transfer Specification", "text": "Wellsite Information Transfer Specification\n\nThe Wellsite Information Transfer Specification (WITS) is a specification for the transfer of drilling rig-related data. This petroleum industry standard is recognized by a number of companies internationally and is supported by many hardware devices and software applications.\n\nWITS is a multi-layered specification:\n\n\nThough still in active use as of 2013, the specification has been superseded by the XML-based WITSML.\n\n"}
{"id": "50582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50582", "title": "Zircon", "text": "Zircon\n\nZircon ( or ) is a mineral belonging to the group of nesosilicates. Its chemical name is zirconium silicate, and its corresponding chemical formula is ZrSiO. A common empirical formula showing some of the range of substitution in zircon is (Zr, REE)(SiO)(OH). Zircon forms in silicate melts with large proportions of high field strength incompatible elements. For example, hafnium is almost always present in quantities ranging from 1 to 4%. The crystal structure of zircon is tetragonal crystal system. The natural color of zircon varies between colorless, yellow-golden, red, brown, blue and green. Colorless specimens that show gem quality are a popular substitute for diamond and are also known as \"Matura diamond\".\n\nThe name derives from the Persian \"zargun\", meaning \"gold-hued\". This word is corrupted into \"jargoon\", a term applied to light-colored zircons. The English word \"zircon\" is derived from \"Zirkon\", which is the German adaptation of this word. Yellow, orange and red zircon is also known as \"hyacinth\", from the flower \"hyacinthus\", whose name is of Ancient Greek origin.\n\nZircon is ubiquitous in the crust of Earth. It occurs as a common accessory mineral in igneous rocks (as primary crystallization products), in metamorphic rocks and as detrital grains in sedimentary rocks. Large zircon crystals are rare. Their average size in granite rocks is about 0.1–0.3 mm, but they can also grow to sizes of several centimeters, especially in mafic pegmatites and carbonatites. Zircon is also very resistant to heat and corrosion.\n\nBecause of their uranium and thorium content, some zircons undergo metamictization. Connected to internal radiation damage, these processes partially disrupt the crystal structure and partly explain the highly variable properties of zircon. As zircon becomes more and more modified by internal radiation damage, the density decreases, the crystal structure is compromised, and the color changes.\n\nZircon occurs in many colors, including reddish brown, yellow, green, blue, gray and colorless. The color of zircons can sometimes be changed by heat treatment. Common brown zircons can be transformed into colorless and blue zircons by heating to 800 to 1000 °C. In geological settings, the development of pink, red, and purple zircon occurs after hundreds of millions of years, if the crystal has sufficient trace elements to produce color centers. Color in this red or pink series is annealed in geological conditions above temperatures of around 400 °C.\n\nZircon is mainly consumed as an opacifier, and has been known to be used in the decorative ceramics industry. It is also the principal precursor not only to metallic zirconium, although this application is small, but also to all compounds of zirconium including zirconium dioxide (ZrO), one of the most refractory materials known.\n\nOther applications include use in refractories and foundry casting and a growing array of specialty applications as zirconia and zirconium chemicals, including in nuclear fuel rods, catalytic fuel converters and in water and air purification systems.\n\nZircon is one of the key minerals used by geologists for geochronology.\n\nZircon is a part of the ZTR index to classify highly-weathered sediments.\n\nZircon is a common accessory to trace mineral constituent of most granite and felsic igneous rocks. Due to its hardness, durability and chemical inertness, zircon persists in sedimentary deposits and is a common constituent of most sands. Zircon is rare within mafic rocks and very rare within ultramafic rocks aside from a group of ultrapotassic intrusive rocks such as kimberlites, carbonatites, and lamprophyre, where zircon can occasionally be found as a trace mineral owing to the unusual magma genesis of these rocks.\n\nZircon forms economic concentrations within heavy mineral sands ore deposits, within certain pegmatites, and within some rare alkaline volcanic rocks, for example the Toongi Trachyte, Dubbo, New South Wales Australia in association with the zirconium-hafnium minerals eudialyte and armstrongite.\n\nAustralia leads the world in zircon mining, producing 37% of the world total and accounting for 40% of world EDR (economic demonstrated resources) for the mineral. South Africa is Africa’s main producer, with 30% of world production, second after Australia.\n\nZircon has played an important role during the evolution of radiometric dating. Zircons contain trace amounts of uranium and thorium (from 10 ppm up to 1 wt%) and can be dated using several modern analytical techniques. Because zircons can survive geologic processes like erosion, transport, even high-grade metamorphism, they contain a rich and varied record of geological processes. Currently, zircons are typically dated by uranium-lead (U-Pb), fission-track, cathodoluminescence, and U+Th/He techniques. For instance, imaging the cathodoluminescence emission from fast electrons can be used as a prescreening tool for high-resolution secondary-ion-mass spectrometry (SIMS) to image the zonation pattern and identify regions of interest for isotope analysis. This is done using an integrated cathodoluminescence and scanning electron microscope. Zircons in sedimentary rock can identify the sediment source.\n\nZircons from Jack Hills in the Narryer Gneiss Terrane, Yilgarn Craton, Western Australia, have yielded U-Pb ages up to 4.404 billion years, interpreted to be the age of crystallization, making them the oldest minerals so far dated on Earth. In addition, the oxygen isotopic compositions of some of these zircons have been interpreted to indicate that more than 4.4 billion years ago there was already water on the surface of the Earth. This interpretation is supported by additional trace element data, but is also the subject of debate. In 2015, \"remains of biotic life\" were found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in the Jack Hills of Western Australia. According to one of the researchers, \"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth ... then it could be common in the universe.\"\n\nHafnon (HfSiO), xenotime (YPO), béhierite, schiavinatoite ((Ta,Nb)BO), thorite (ThSiO), and coffinite (USiO) all share the same crystal structure (X Y O) as zircon.\n\n\n"}
