{"id": "6325265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6325265", "title": "1580 in music", "text": "1580 in music\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171685", "title": "1968 in film", "text": "1968 in film\n\n\nPalme d'Or (Cannes Film Festival): canceled due to events of May 1968\n\nGolden Lion (Venice Film Festival):\n\nGolden Bear (Berlin Film Festival):\n\nUS unless stated\n\n\n\n\n\nA\nB\nC\nD\nE\nF\nG\nH\nI\nJ\nK\nL\nM\nN\nO\nP\nR\nS\nT\nU\nV\nW\nY\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26546550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26546550", "title": "Aqueduct Press", "text": "Aqueduct Press\n\nAqueduct Press is a publisher based in Seattle, Washington, United States that publishes material featuring a feminist viewpoint.\n\nAqueduct Press was founded in 2004 by L. Timmel Duchamp. The company has focused on publishing speculative fiction which contains a feminist element. Since 2004 they have been publishing the \"Conversation Pieces\" which is written by many authors and contains chapbooks with poems, fiction and essays.\n\nAqueduct Press has published multiple award-winning and short-list nominee titles. Their first winning title was \"Life\" by Gwyneth Jones which was published in 2004. It won the 2005 Philip K. Dick Award and was a short-list nominee for the 2005 James Tiptree Jr Memorial Award and placed 27th on the 2005 Locus Awards for best science fiction novel. Also in 2004 L. Timmel Duchamp's \"Love's Body, Dancing in Time\" was a short-list nominee for the 2005 James Tiptree Jr Memorial Award and placed 21st in the 2005 Locus Awards for best collection, and Nicola Griffith's \"With Her Body\" was a finalist at the 2005 Gaylactic Spectrum Awards for best other work and at the 2005 Lambda Literary Award for best science fiction/fantasy/horror. In 2006 Andrea Hairston's \"Mindscape\" was a finalist for the 2007 Philip K. Dick Award and was named as an honour book at the 2007 James Tiptree Jr Memorial Awards. Kelley Eskridge's \"Dangerous Space\" placed 17th in the 2008 Locus Awards and in 2009 \"Filter House\" by Nisi Shawl won the James Tiptree Jr Memorial Award and was a short-list nominee for the 2009 World Fantasy Awards best collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "26157272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26157272", "title": "Azerbaijani art", "text": "Azerbaijani art\n\nAzerbaijani art has developed over the ancient history of Azerbaijan and Iranian Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijanis have created a rich and distinctive culture, a major part of which is decorative and applied art. This form of art rooted in hoary antiquity, is represented by a wide range of handicrafts, such as chasing, jewelery-making, engraving in metal, carving in wood, stone and bone, carpet-making, lacing, pattern weaving and printing, knitting and embroidery. Each of these types of decorative art, evidence of the culture and endowments of the Azerbaijan nation, is very popular there. Many interesting facts pertaining to the development of arts and crafts in Azerbaijan were reported by numerous merchants, travelers and diplomats who had visited these places at different times.\n\nImages reflecting magic, totemic notions of ancient people, their religious customs and hunting scenes saved on rocks in Gobustan evidence about primitive art in the Paleolithic epoch. Men and women, fishing scenes, images of people dancing on the rocks, galloping horses hunters, lonely figure of a reaper with a sickle, round dances of people reminding of “yalli”, boats with rowers, solar signs and various wild animals had been portrayed there.\n\nGamigaya Petroglyphs in the territory of Ordubad Rayon are dated back to the 4th-1st centuries BC. About 1500 dislodged and carved rock paintings with images of deer, goats, bulls, dogs, snakes, birds, fantastic beings and also people, carriages and various symbols had been found out on basalt rocks.\n\nFindings of ceramic items belonged to Caucasian Albanian culture found out during archeological excavations have various shapes, perfect forms and fine ornaments. Varieties of painted ornamental and semantic motifs are typical for ceramic items found out in different oblasts of Azerbaijan such as Shahtakhty and Gizilvang.\n\nA large vessel found out in Shahtakhty village and black-glossed zoomorphic vessels found out in Mingachevir are the most famous patterns of ceramic items of Azerbaijan. A unique rhyton cup with a figure of deer with branchy antlers on it is the most interesting find. A figure of two-headed deer from burials of Dolanlar village, bronze figures of birds from Chovdar village, gold adorning and also rhyton with deer head from Mingachevir had been found out.\n\nFoundations of columns had been found out in different rayons of Azerbaijan, mainly from Nakhchivan and Gabala. And details of plant images had been painted on stone foundations found out in Gazakh Rayon and belonged to the 4th-3rd centuries BC. Cave dwellings of Zangilan, Gonagkend and Shamakhi Rayons, rocky shelters of Gazakh Rayon, serf and Cyclopean constructions of uplands of Lesser Caucasus and Nakhchivan found out by archeologists are also very interesting.\n\nDevelopment of old and appearance of new cities favored development of caravan trade and expansion of handicraft production. Many cities famed for rug weaving, production of artistic ceramic jars, gold and silver items.\n\nPatterns of engravings and sculptures were broadly spread in visual arts in the period of Caucasian Albania’s existence.\n\nA stone cap of the 5th-6th centuries found out in Sudagilan settlement of Mingachevir Rayon were one of the most famous findings of that time. A cup found out in Bartim village and dated from the 2nd-4th centuries is kept in the Moscow Museum of History.\nSeizure of Caucasian Albania by Arabs in the 7th century was of great importance in further development of visual arts. Muslim – Iranian and Arabic cultures began to spread in the territory of modern Azerbaijan. Construction of mosques, mausoleums, castles and other cultic architectural monuments was followed by their decoration with various patterns and ornaments, calligraphic elements (epitaph), tile and bas-reliefs. Restriction of images of alive beings by Islam stimulated development of ornamental forms of decorative arts. Ornaments on Momine Khatun Mausoleum in Nakhchivan, constructed in the epoch of the Seljuq Atabeg’ reign and khanegah on the shore of the Pirsaat River are interesting monuments of that time.\nSet of small states appeared in the territory of Azerbaijan after weakening of Arab Caliphate. Local art schools were opened in cities such as Barda, Shamakhi, Beylagan, Ganja, Nakhchivan and Shabran. Architectural schools of Nakchivan, Shirvan-Absheron and Tabriz are the most important among them. Monuments and constructions of “Nakhchivan school” are distinguished for their ceramic details, which initially were one-colored, but then became multi-colored. Ornamental motifs generally consisted of baked brick and tile. Smooth stone walls with plastics which were rarely used in architectural elements, belong to “Shirvan-Absheron architectural school”. Patterns of stone carving art, geometric and plant ornaments take an important place in buildings belonging to this architectural school.\n\nArtistic value of “divankhana” from Palace of the Shirvanshahs ensemble “are determined by perfection of the composition, tectonics of architectural forms, virtuosity of painting and creation of ornaments” according to L.Bretatsinki and B.Weymarn.\n\nStones with inscriptions and images of people and animals (tiger, camel, horse, bull and bird) had been found out in the Shirvanshahs’ architectural monument called Sabayil Castle constructed in the 13th century in Baku Bay. There had been made in deep carving style and had characteristics of frieze. This monument is a pattern of sculptural art where inscriptions and salient images was a decisive factor in decorative design of buildings. Cultural traditions of ancient Caucasian Albania are saved in reliefs of the stones.\n\nBayil stones which had characteristics of friezes, consisted of decorative elements in grand architectural land monuments located on land, at that time.\n\nCeramic items found out during archeological excavations in Shabran and Baylagan also give evidence of the high-level development of visual arts in the Middle Ages.\n\nAzerbaijani rugs are a product of Azerbaijan, an ancient center of carpet weaving. \nAzerbaijan has been since the ancient times known as a center of a large variety of crafts. The archeological dig on the territory of Azerbaijan testifies to the well developed agriculture, stock raising, metal working, pottery and ceramics, and last but not least carpet-weaving that date as far back as to the 2nd millennium BC. Development of carpet weaving boosted after Ismail I's takeover of Safavid dynasty.\n\nAzerbaijani carpets can be categorized under several large groups and a multitude of subgroups. The true scientific research of the Azerbaijani carpet is connected with the name of Latif Karimov, a prominent scientist and artist. It was his classification that related the four large groups of carpets with the four geographical zones of Azerbaijan, i.e. Guba-Shirvan, Ganja-Kazakh, Karabakh and Tabriz.\n\nThe Karabakh carpet is one of five major regional groups of carpets made in Azerbaijan named after the Karabakh region, which comprises present Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent lowland territories ('lowland Karabakh'). The Karabakh carpets amount to 33 compositions. Due to the specifics of the local sheep wool the Karabakh carpets are characterized by thick pile, high and fluffy. These carpets are marked for their vivid and joyous colors. They are divided into four groups: without medallions, with medallions, namazlyk and subject carpet. In the mountainous part of Karabakh the carpets were made in Malybeili, Muradkhanly, Dashbulakh, Jebrail, Goradis and many other villages.\n\nIn 2010, art of Azerbaijani carpet weaving in Azerbaijan was added to the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nPersian miniature painting was developing in the territory of Azerbaijan in the Middle Ages. Manuscripts with miniature paintings of people, animals and landscapes in them were popular at that time. Heores of poetic works by Ferdowsi, Nizami, Saadi, Hafez, Jami, Navoiy, Amir Khusrow Dehlawi and others took an important place in creativity of Persian miniature artists. In the middle of the 15th century, a new style –“Turkmen style” – of miniature spread in the territories of Kara Koyunlu and Aq Qoyunlu states was developed. Such miniatures of this style were made in Tabriz and other cities located in the territory of modern Azerbaijan. Shamakhi – the capital of the Shirvanshahs’ Government was one of them. Traces of this now ancient style created by artists worked in workshops of Rashidaddin in the beginning of the 14th century can be observed in miniatures created by Abdul-Bagi Bakuvi, Baku artist of the 15th century. Illustrations for “Anthology of the Eastern poetry” or “Anthology of Shamakhi” of 1468 and saved in British Museum in London are the best miniatures created by artist of Shamakhi and Baku. One-figured and two-figured portraits painted by Abdulbagi Bakuvi (“Stableman” and “Two amirs”) and saved in Topkapi Museum, in Istanbul belong to miniature art of Baku. Influence of Far Eastern painting can be felt in creativity of many miniature artists of that time.\n\nWars between Turkey and Iran and also feudal wrangles among khanates adversely affected development of visual arts in 17th-18th centuries. But colorful masterpieces of visual arts had been continuing created and the Palace of Shaki Khans built by architect Khadali Zeynalabdin from Shiraz in 1797, is one of these masterpieces. These decorative paintings created by masters such as Abbasgulu, Usta Gambar Garabaghi, Aligulu, Gurban Ali, Shukur and others were created with bright and motley colors. Images of people and animals, and also battle and hunting scenes were painted on the waslls of the palace.\n\nMonumental constrictions, generally was suffering a decline. In the XVIII, wall paintings which mainly consisted of compositions of plant motifs appeared in houses of wealthy townsmen. National arts created ornaments for guns and jars. A copper jar and gun found out in Lahij has highly artistic ornaments.\n\nFrom the 19th century to early 20th century several artists of decorative arts who hadn’t got artistic education famed. Mir Mohsun Navvab who hadn’t any artistic education and also famed as a poet, music theorist and calligraphist was among the most famous artists of that time. Ornaments created by him are important in art sphere. Ornamental wall paintings, images of flowers and birds, illustrations to his own manuscripts (“Bahr-ul Khazan” (The sea of sorrow), 1864) are typical of his creativity.\n\nUsta Gambar Garabaghi used national traditions of wall-painting (1830s-1905). He famed for his works in restoration of the Palace of Shaki Khans, paintings in interiors of houses of Mehmandarov and Rustamov in Shusha and other cities. Paintings made by him didn’t break flatness of walls, but emphasized its architectural details. His new works distinguished for growth of realistic features.\n\nLandscapes, images of flowers and patterns of decorative-applied art made by poet Khurshidbanu Natavan should also be noted. She also decorated her poems with lyric art motifs.\n\nArtists such as Avazali Mughanli (“Kalila and Dimna”, 1809), Mirza Aligulu (“Shahnameh”, 1850), Najafgulu Shamakhili (“Yusuf and Zulaikha”, 1887) and others were famed among Azerbaijani miniature painters of that time.\n\nNew progressive visual arts of Azerbaijan faced a delay in development in the 19th century. Development of realistic easel painting was extremely low.\n\nOrigination of easel painting in Azerbaijani visual arts began in this period, but works of that period such as portraits painted in Irevan “were still firmly connected to traditions of the eastern miniature of middle ages”.\n\nA painter Mirza Gadim Iravani, who also hadn’t got professional artistic education mainly famed as a portrait artist. “Dancer”, “Dervish”, “Strongman” and “Cavalryman” are his most popular works. His works are saved in National Art Museum of Azerbaijan. Portrait of a young man, portrait of a sitting woman and others are among these works. Irevani, whose works were firmly connected to traditions of the eastern miniature of medieval ages, laid down the foundations of the realistic easel painting in Azerbaijan. \n\nPaintings in Sardar’s Palace in Irevan and also portraits of “Fath Ali Shah”, “Abbas Mirza”, “Mah Talat khanim” and “Vajullah Mirza” are among famous works of Mirza Gadim Iravani. Beside these portraits he also painted a portrait of “Unknown warrior”. The palace was demolished in 1914 and four great portraits on the walls of the palace and also paintings on the walls of houses in Shusha were also erased.\n\n“Timur’s portrait” by Mir Mohsun Navvab painted with watercolors in 1902 and now saved in National Art Museum of Azerbaijan in Baku is also famous.\n\nGenres of satiric graphics were appeared with publishing of “Molla Nasraddin” magazine in the beginning of the 20th century and development of book publishing. Artists of the magazine such as O.Schemrling, I.Rotter, A.Azimzade and K.Musayev actively worked in this sphere of arts. Azim Azimzade is a founder of satiric graphics of Azerbaijan. His sharp caricatures and grotesques scoffing at social inequality, ignorance, fanaticism and oppression by Tsarism are also famous. His series of watercalar paintings called “Hundred types” dedicated to freedom of women, atheism and political motifs and also illustrations to Mirza Alakbar Sabir’s “Hophopname” collection of works are famous.\n\nBahruz Kangarli is the first Azerbaijani artist who got incomplete professional education (1926), being one of the founders of realistic easel arts of Azerbaijan, created landscapes such as “Ilanly Mountain under the moonlight”, “Before the dawn” and “Spring”. He also created portraits of unfortunate people in “Refugees” series and everyday life compositions “Matchmaking” and “Wedding”. His album “Memory of Nakchivan” consistsing of twenty landscapes is saved in National Art Museum of Azerbaijan.\n\nKangarli drew outlines of costumes for “Deadmen” (J.Mammadguluzadeh), “Haji Gara” (M.F.Akhundov), “Peri Jaud” (A.Hagverdiyev) and other plays staged in Nakhchivan, in 1910.\n\nIndependence Museum of Azerbaijan, where national attributes of Azerbaijan – the state coat-of-arms and flag- were created, was founded in Baku, in 1919, after establishment of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic. Meetings dedicated to protection and restoration of historical monuments were held in the museum. At that time “Fuyuzat” magazine was issued by Ali bey Huseynzade, the eminent philosopher, journalist and artist of that time and founder of oil painting arts in Azerbaijan. “Bibi-Heybat Mosque” and “The portrait of Shaikh ul islam” are his famous works.\n\nNew type of arts was forming in Azerbaijan after establishment of the Soviet regime in Azerbaijan, in 1920. The first art school where new genres of visual arts were created, was opened in 1920, in Baku.\nIn the 1930s, artists such as Azim Azimzade, Farhad Khalilov, H.Khaligov, I.Akhundov, A.Hajiyev, M.A.Vlasov, K.Kazimzade, A.Mammadov and others worked in the sphere of graphics. Illustrations to books of Azerbaijani and foreign writers were made. Placards to actual themes of that time were also made.\n\nIn 1928, the first art exhibition of Azerbaijani Union of Young Artists was held. In the 1930s, exhibition of Azerbaijani Union of Revolutionary Visual Arts achieved a great success.\n\nIn 1932, the Committee of Azerbaijani Artists was created. In that period, works such as “Grape harvesting” by S.Sharifzade, “Azim Azimzade’s portrait” by H.Hagverdiyev and “Portrait of Nizami Ganjavi” by Gazanfar Khaligov, were famous. Works by Mikayil Abdullayev, B.Mirzazade, B.Aliyeva, Sattar Bahlulzade and K.Khanlarova should also be mentioned. The first congress of Azerbaijani artists was held in 1940.\n\nGenerally, political placards and satiric caricatures were made during World War II. Well-known artists as H.Khaligov, I.Akhundov, A.Hajiyev and S.Sharifzade were authors of such politic placards.\nMaturity stage in Azerbaijani visual arts began in the mid 1950s. Mikayil Abdullayev, Tahir Salahov, Vidadi Narimanbekov, Sattar Bahlulzade, Togrul Narimanbekov, Geysar Kashiyeva and others were famous artists of the Soviet Azerbaijan, in the second half of the 20th century. Tahir Salahov credited for pioneering a version of “severe realism” more truthful to the grim realities of workers’ lives than the bright certainties of Socialist Realism.\n\nB.Aliyev, I.Feyzullayev, A.Mammadov, A.Verdiyev and others portrayed subjects of labor and industry in their works. But the works of Elbey Rzaguliyev, T.Sadighzade, Arif Huseynov, K.Najafzade and others are dedicated to historic past, traditions and customs of Azerbaijani people, to war and peace. J.Mirjavadova, N.Rahmanova, K.Ahmadova, G.Yunusova, S.Veysova, A.Ibrahimova, I.Mammadova, S.Mirzazade, F.Hashimova, F.Gulamova, A.Samadova and others painted mythological images.\n\nMaral Rahmanzade was the first Azerbaijani woman artist who got professional artistic education achieved a great success in the sphere of easel painting and book illustration.\n\nAfter Dissolution of the Soviet Union, organisations such as \"YARAT\" created to nurture an understanding of contemporary art in Azerbaijan and to creating a platform for Azerbaijani art, both nationally and internationally.\n\nMaiden Tower International Art Festival has been organized since 2010 with the view of the global promotion of the Maiden Tower in Old City of Baku, included in UNESCO’s World Heritage List in 2000 and considered the symbol of Baku. In 2012, Azerbaijan staged the 012 Baku Public Art Festival, country's first modern art festival.\n\nAs of the 2000s, Fine-art photography became popular in Azerbaijan, with names such as Rena Effendi hosting exhibitions in London and New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064173", "title": "Bandurist", "text": "Bandurist\n\nA banduryst () is a person who plays the Ukrainian plucked string instrument known as the bandura.\n\nThere are a number of different types of bandurist who differ in their particular choice of instrument, the specific repertoire they play and manner in which they approach their vocation.\n\n\nEvidence of ensemble playing prior to the 20th century is scarce, although there do exist accounts of two or sometimes three kobzars playing together at bazaars, especially in the area around Kharkiv.\n\nThe first documented performance by a bandura ensemble however took place in Kharkiv in 1902, at the XIIth Archeological conference. The performance had a very positive effect on the popularity of the bandura and ensemble bandura playing. Attempts were made by Hnat Khotkevych to repeat the performance and take the ensemble on tour throughout Ukraine, but permission was not obtained from the Russian authorities.\n\nIn 1905 there is evidence of the first performance of a bandura quartet of non-blind bandurists performing in Moscow. From 1906 small bandura ensembles began to form not just from kobzars who had participated in the Kharkiv performance of 1902 but also from non-blind bandurists and had become interested in the instrument. Groups were established by M. Domontovych in Kiev and V. Shevchenko in Moscow and the Kuban.\n\nWhat is considered to be the first professional (in the sense that this was their main livelihood) bandurist ensemble was established by Vasyl Yemetz in 1918 and became known as the Kiev Bandurist Capella. Despite periods in which the ensemble did not function due to the political turmoil within the country, the ensemble re-established and re-defined itself on numerous occasions and through its concerts stimulated the establishment of many other similar bandura groups. By 1928 there were over 900 bandura ensembles in Ukraine.\n\nActive persecution of bandurists in the 1930s resulted in many players being murdered or persecuted in the 1930s. Many of those that continued playing took the opportunity of seeking freedom emigrating to the West. The Ukrainian Bandurist Chorus which was originally established in 1941 during the Nazi occupation emigrated as a group. It settled in Detroit in the USA where it continued to actively propagated the art form in the West.\n\nThe Kiev State Bandurist Capella was re-established in Kiev in 1948 under the direction of Oleksander Minkivsky. Many members after being mobilized to the front in 1941 had died. Others had emigrated. It currently has over 70 members. Numerous other bandurist Capellas exist in Ukraine throughout the country having all male membership, mixed membership, or just female membership. A capella made up of blind bandurists also exists in Lviv.\n\nBandurist choruses, ensembles and capellas were also established in Argentina, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Paraguay, Poland the United States and Venezuela.\n\nMany bandurists and kobzars were persecuted by authorities that controlled Ukraine at various times because of the association of the bandura with growing Ukrainian national self-awareness. This has continued into contemporary times with the recent arrest and torture of bandurist Vasyl Liuty.\n"}
{"id": "2376655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376655", "title": "Bengali renaissance", "text": "Bengali renaissance\n\nThe Bengali renaissance or simply Bengal renaissance, (; Bānglār nabajāgaraṇ) was a cultural, social, intellectual and artistic movement in Bengal region in the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent during the period of the British Indian Empire, from the nineteenth century to the early twentieth century dominated by Bengali Hindus. The Bengal renaissance can be said to have started with Raja Ram Mohan Roy (1772–1833) and ended with Rabindranath Tagore (1861–1941), although there have been many stalwarts, such as Satyajit Ray (1921-1992), thereafter embodying particular aspects of the unique intellectual and creative output. Nineteenth-century Bengal was a unique blend of religious and social reformers, scholars, literary giants, journalists, patriotic orators and scientists, all merging to form the image of a renaissance, and marked the transition from the 'medieval' to the 'modern'.\n\nDuring this period, Bengal witnessed an intellectual awakening that is in some way similar to the Renaissance in Europe during the 16th century, although Europeans of that age were not confronted with the challenge and influence of alien colonialism. This movement questioned existing orthodoxies, particularly with respect to women, marriage, the dowry system, the caste system, and religion. One of the earliest social movements that emerged during this time was the Young Bengal movement, that espoused rationalism and atheism as the common denominators of civil conduct among upper caste educated Hindus.\n\nThe parallel socio-religious movement, the Brahmo Samaj, developed during this time period and counted many of the leaders of the Bengal Renaissance among its followers. In the earlier years the Brahmo Samaj, like the rest of society, could not however, conceptualize, in that feudal-colonial era, a free India as it was influenced by the European Enlightenment (and its bearers in India, the British Raj) although it traced its intellectual roots to the Upanishads. Their version of Hinduism, or rather Universal Religion (similar to that of Ramakrishna), although devoid of practices like sati and polygamy that had crept into the social aspects of Hindu life, was ultimately a rigid impersonal monotheistic faith, which actually was quite distinct from the pluralistic and multifaceted nature of the way the Hindu religion was practiced. Future leaders like Keshub Chunder Sen were as much devotees of Christ, as they were of Brahma, Krishna or the Buddha. It has been argued by some scholars that the Brahmo Samaj movement never gained the support of the masses and remained restricted to the elite, although Hindu society has accepted most of the social reform programmes of the Brahmo Samaj. It must also be acknowledged that many of the later Brahmos were also leaders of the freedom movement.\n\nThe renaissance period after the Indian Rebellion of 1857 saw a magnificent outburst of Bengali literature. While Ram Mohan Roy and Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar were the pioneers, others like Bankim Chandra Chatterjee widened it and built upon it. The first significant nationalist detour to the Bengal Renaissance was given by the writings of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee. Later writers of the period who introduced broad discussion of social problems and more colloquial forms of Bengali into mainstream literature included Saratchandra Chatterjee.\nThe Tagore family, including Rabindranath Tagore, were leaders of this period and had a particular interest in educational reform. Their contribution to the Bengal Renaissance was multi-faceted. Tagore's 1901 Bengali novella, \"Nastanirh\" was written as a critique of men who professed to follow the ideals of the Renaissance, but failed to do so within their own families. In many ways Rabindranath Tagore's writings (especially poems and songs) can be seen as imbued with the spirit of the Upanishads. His works repeatedly allude to Upanishadic ideas regarding soul, liberation, transmigration and—perhaps most essentially—about a spirit that imbues all creation not unlike the Upanishadic Brahman. Tagore's English translation of a set of poems titled the Gitanjali won him the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1913. He was the first Asian to win this award (and the first non-European/non-white person of 'colour' to win the Nobel Prize in any category). That was the only example at the time but the contribution of the Tagore family is enormous.\n\nThe word \"renaissance\" in European history meant \"rebirth\" and was used in the context of the revival of the Graeco-Roman learning in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries after the long winter of the dark medieval period. A serious comparison was started by the dramatis personae of the Bengal renaissance like Keshab Chandra Sen, Bipin Chandra Pal and M. N. Roy. For about a century, Bengal's conscious awareness and the changing modern world was more developed and ahead of the rest of India. The role played by Bengal in the modern awakening of India is thus comparable to the position occupied by Italy in the European renaissance. Very much like the Italian Renaissance, it was not a mass movement; but instead restricted to the upper classes. \n\nThough the Bengal Renaissance was the \"culmination of the process of emergence of the cultural characteristics of the Bengali people that had started in the age of Hussein Shah, it remained predominantly Hindu and only partially Muslim.\" There were, nevertheless, examples of Muslim intellectuals such as Syed Ameer Ali, Mosharraf Hussain, Sake Dean Mahomed, Kazi Nazrul Islam, and Roquia Sakhawat Hussain. The Freedom of Intellect Movement sought to challenge religious and social dogma in Bengali Muslim society.\n\nDuring the Bengal Renaissance science was also advanced by several Bengali scientists such as Satyendra Nath Bose, Anil Kumar Gain, Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, Jagadish Chandra Bose and Meghnad Saha. Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose was a polymath: a physicist, biologist, botanist, archaeologist, and writer of science fiction. He pioneered the investigation of radio and microwave optics, made very significant contributions to plant science, and laid the foundations of experimental science in the Indian subcontinent. He is considered one of the fathers of radio science, and is also considered the father of Bengali science fiction. He was the first from the Indian subcontinent to get a US patent, in 1904. Anil Kumar Gain and Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis were leading mathematicians and statisticians of their time. Gain went on to found Vidyasagar University, while Mahalanobis laid the foundation of the Indian Statistical Institute. Satyendra Nath Bose was a physicist, specializing in mathematical physics. He is best known for his work on quantum mechanics in the early 1920s, providing the foundation for Bose-Einstein statistics and the theory of the Bose-Einstein condensate. He is honoured as the namesake of the boson. Although more than one Nobel Prize was awarded for research related to the concepts of the boson, Bose-Einstein statistics and Bose-Einstein condensate—the latest being the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physics, which was given for advancing the theory of Bose-Einstein condensates—Bose himself was never awarded the Nobel Prize.\n\nAccording to historian Romesh Chunder Dutt:\n\nMost notable Bengali religious and spiritual personalities are Atiśa, Tilopa, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Ramakrishna, Sree Sree Thakur Anukulchandra, Nityananda, Haridasa Thakur, Jiva Goswami, Ramprasad Sen, Lokenath Brahmachari, Swami Vivekananda, Keshub Chandra Sen, Balananda Brahmachari, Vishuddhananda Paramahansa, Sri Aurobindo, Lahiri Mahasaya, Bamakhepa, Yukteswar Giri, Debendranath Tagore, Swami Abhedananda, Bhaktivinoda Thakur, Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, Mohanananda Brahmachari, Sitaramdas Omkarnath, Ram Thakur, Lalon, Tibbetibaba, Soham Swami, Nigamananda Paramahansa, Niralamba Swami, Pranavananda, Bijoy Krishna Goswami, Paramahansa Yogananda, Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar, Anukulchandra Chakravarty, Anandamayi Ma, Hariharananda Giri, Anirvan and Sri Chinmoy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29364933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29364933", "title": "Burney Collection of Newspapers", "text": "Burney Collection of Newspapers\n\nThe Burney Collection consists of over 1,270 17th-18th century newspapers and other news materials, gathered by Charles Burney, most notable for the 18th-century London newspapers. The original collection, totalling almost 1 million pages, is held by the British Library.\n\nKey objects in the collection include:\n\nThe collection begins with Parliamentary papers from 1603, and newspapers from the early 1620s. 18th-century London newspapers are the richest part of the collection.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of titles covering some of the most popular.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> These items are available as part of the online collection.\n\nDue to rapid deterioration of the collection, a decision was made to microfilm the collection and restrict access to physical copies. The success of the microfilm project led to many other book collections being preserved on film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1975389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975389", "title": "Cello Concerto No. 1 (Haydn)", "text": "Cello Concerto No. 1 (Haydn)\n\nThe Cello Concerto No. 1 in C major, Hob. VIIb/1, by Joseph Haydn was composed around 1761-65 for longtime friend Joseph Franz Weigl, then the principal cellist of Prince Nicolaus's Esterházy Orchestra.\n\nThe work was presumed lost until 1961, when musicologist Oldřich Pulkert discovered a copy of the score at the Prague National Museum. Though some doubts have been raised about the authenticity of the work, most experts believe that Haydn did compose this concerto.\n\nAlthough the full work was discovered in 1961, Haydn had written the beginning of the principal theme of the first movement in his draft catalogue of 1765.\nThis early work, contemporaneous with symphonies 6, 7 and 8 and predating his D major cello concerto by around twenty years, already shows Haydn as a master of instrumental writing. The solo cello part is thoroughly idiomatic. The concerto reflects the ritornello form of the baroque concerto as well as the emerging structure of the sonata-allegro form. As in the baroque concerto grosso, the accompanying ensemble is small: strings, two oboes, and two horns. It is possible that Weigl was the only cellist in the Esterházy Orchestra when Haydn composed the concerto, since there is only one cello line in the score, marked alternately “solo” and “tutti.” There is also, however, a basso continuo line, that might have been played by another cellist, or by Haydn himself on the harpsichord, or by a string bass player.\n\n\nAll three movements of this work are written in sonata form, unlike the second concerto, where rondo form is used in the second and third movements. This concerto is more related to Haydn's violin concerti than its follower, holding very close resemblance to the Violin Concerto no. 3 in A major, such as the first movement's etched rhythms, and flowing second themes, a peaceful slow movement, and a brisk finale. Both concerti were composed in the same period of time. \n\nAfter the orchestral exposition of the first movement, the solo instrument plays the opening theme with full chords that use all four strings. Virtuosity is developed further in the use of rapidly repeating notes, the very high range, and quick contrasts of register. This movement is dominated by a single theme, although the theme itself includes several motives that Haydn develops separately. Near the end, a cadenza is played. \n\nIn the slow movement (scored without winds), the cello enters dramatically on a long note, played while the orchestral strings relaunch the opening theme. Two measures later the cello goes on to imitate this melody. Haydn was fond of this gesture: several times in the movement the cello enters on a sustained pitch. This movement, like the first, calls for a cadenza toward the end.\n\nThe finale also has the cello enter on a long note, after an extended orchestral introduction. This spirited finale, written in sonata allegro form, represented another chance for Haydn to show what he could do in spinning out a single theme into a series of short motives and a large variety of rapidly changing moods. The virtuosity of the solo instrument is exploited in this movement, especially in passages where the cello alternates rapidly from low to high, so that it seems to be two instruments playing in counterpoint. Haydn uses the sustained-note entrance several times, the final one on a very high, penetrating G.\n\nHaydn's C Major Cello Concerto has become a staple of the cello repertoire, after its 20th century premiere by Miloš Sádlo and the Czechoslovak Radio Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Sir Charles Mackerras, on 19 May 1962. Many famous artists, including Jacqueline du Pré, Yo-Yo Ma, Julian Lloyd Webber, Pierre Fournier, Truls Mørk, Mstislav Rostropovich, Pieter Wispelwey, Heinrich Schiff, Lynn Harrell, Christine Walevska, Sol Gabetta, Maximilian Hornung, Mischa Maisky, Steven Isserlis, and Sergei Istomin have recorded it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49905347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49905347", "title": "Dame Myra Hess Award", "text": "Dame Myra Hess Award\n\nThe Dame Myra Hess Award is an award for postgraduate students of the piano. It has been presented by the Musicians Benevolent Fund (now Help Musicians UK) since 1968. Myra Hess had given the MBF crucial financial support during World War II through funds she had raised during her concert series at London's National Gallery.\n"}
{"id": "49127973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49127973", "title": "Dan Pyle", "text": "Dan Pyle\n\nDan Pyle (born April 4, 1954 in Wolf Point, Montana) is an American artist and a representative of Contemporary Realism. He works mainly in charcoal and his drawings highlight figurative objects in general and the human body in particular.\n\nDan Pyle was born in Wolf Point, Montana, and grew up in Washington State. Dan Pyle has been drawing since his childhood and was awarded for his works early on. However, his artistic career began as a dancer with the Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle, and was substantially influenced by his admiration for black and white photography. This cross fertilization is where his specific artistic style developed. Moreover, Pyle’s work is marked by contrasts and the special light of a Jan Vermeer and a William Turner. Thematically, the human body with its muscles, shapes and movements are at the forefront of his work, which he is able to present authentically and expressively as a former ballet dancer. After moving to California, Dan Pyle settled in West Hollywood, developing his detailed technique with new and unconventional materials.\n\nPyle's media initially include paintings in oil and acrylic, and, during a later period, murals for public spaces. After several phases, in which he also experimented with and ink and pencil, as well as pastels and watercolors, Pyle finally found the charcoal as the medium of his choice.\nIn addition to focusing on the human body there are unexpected and aged objects that he transforms into his charcoal compositions. So, in addition to living figures, old teapots to rusted motorcycles become his models to which he gives a new identity through the use of contrast, negative space and isolation. The anonymity that his art is reflecting are subject and intention at the same time.\n\nPyle's technique with shadows and light seems to make the presence of color superfluous. So only a few of his works show deliberately weak color characteristics. Even in his current phase, the artist shows himself adventurous and works, e.g., with formats on wood. The substrate with its idiosyncratic structures gives his drawings an additional dimension.\n\nWhen editing his works Pyle aims to include negative space which isolates the subject of the drawing. His original compositions are already in his mind's eye, and the photography helps Pyle to capture the exact vision that he wants to realize. By avoiding a final photographic sharpness, Pyle's work breaks away from photorealism and takes on its own interpretation of modern realism.\nDan Pyle's works are exhibited primarily in the US and increasingly in Europe. With 23 images, the Cosmopolitan Hotel in Las Vegas owns one of the largest private collections. Other exhibitions were held in West Hollywood, Palm Springs, Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, Hollywood, Santa Ana, Long Beach, Provincetown and New York, and now also in Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42382905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42382905", "title": "EverGreene Architectural Arts", "text": "EverGreene Architectural Arts\n\nEverGreene Architectural Arts (EverGreene), based in New York City, is a specialty contractor and design studio working with commercial, government, institutional, sacred and theater clients in the areas of interior restoration, conservation, decoration and new design. Established in 1978, EverGreene is a company of artists, conservators, craftsmen and designers who work throughout the United States and several sites abroad.\n\nThe company operates as both an art studio and a contractor combining art, science and technology as designers and craftsmen work side-by-side.\n\nIn 1976, with the advent of the Historic Preservation tax Incentives, interest in historic preservation grew in the United States. EverGreene, originally started as a firm that almost exclusively focused on decorative painting and murals, expanded in size and service offerings to assist clients and owners of historic structures including: courthouses, state capitols, churches, synagogues, theaters and commercial buildings. To execute large scale projects, EverGreene will often partner with architecture firms during the design and planning phases and with general contractors as a specialty contractor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16074795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16074795", "title": "Frederic Richard Sullivan", "text": "Frederic Richard Sullivan\n\nFrederic Richard \"Dickie\" Sullivan (sometimes credited as \"Frederick\"; 18 July 1872 – 24 July 1937), was an English-born American film director and actor of the silent era. He directed 34 films between 1913 and 1923. He also appeared in 29 films between 1913 and 1935. He also acted on stage. He was a nephew of the composer Arthur Sullivan.\n\nSullivan was born in Pimlico in London, England, the son of Fred Sullivan and Charlotte Louisa Lacy (1841–1885). His uncle was composer Arthur Sullivan. He had seven brothers and sisters: Amy Sophie (1863–1947), Florence Louise (1865–1891), Edith Mary (1866–1877), Herbert \"Bertie\" Thomas (1868–1928), Maud \"Cissie\" Helen (1870–1940), George Arthur (1874–1919) and William Lacy (1877–1902). Sullivan's father died in 1877, leaving his pregnant mother with seven children under the age of 14. After his father's death, Sullivan's uncle Arthur visited the family often and became guardian to all of the children. In 1881, Charlotte married Captain Benjamin Hutchinson, a man 13 years her junior.\n\nIn December 1883, at the urging of Charlotte's brother, William Lacy, the family emigrated to Los Angeles, California, in the United States, except for Sullivan's eldest brother, Bertie, who stayed with their uncle Arthur in London. Charlotte died in January 1885, barely a year after the move to the U.S. Sullivan's stepfather, Hutchinson, unable to cope with this loss and his responsibilities, soon returned to England, leaving the six surviving children (Edith had died) to be brought up mostly by their uncle William, with the financial support of their uncle Arthur. In 1885, the family went on a sightseeing trip of the American West with their visiting uncle Arthur, who continued to support the family until his death in 1900 and in his will.\n\nSullivan directed at least 34 films, during the silent era, between 1913 and 1923. He also acted in at least 29 films between 1913 and 1935, including the Marx Brothers film \"Duck Soup\", and he appeared on stage, including in several Broadway shows, from 1905 to 1931.\n\nSullivan married Kate Webb in 1902, and the couple had two daughters, Helen Mary (1906–1966) and Sheila (born 1919). Kate died in 1921, and Sullivan died in Los Angeles, California at the age of 65.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55197462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55197462", "title": "Hassan Jangju", "text": "Hassan Jangju\n\nHassan Jangju (; 1967–1984) was an Iranian Basiji during the Iran–Iraq War who became subject to an iconic photograph taken by Alfred Yaghobzadeh in 1980. He was missed in action in 1984, and his body was returned to Iran in 2017.\n\nIn the photo, Jangju is crawling through muddy ground of the marshes in south of Iran while he is holding a rifle in ready state. The photograph became viral and was published in several media outlet both due to the special style of the soldier and it also attracted a lot of attention since the family name of the boy, \"Jangju\" meaning Warrior in Persian language was a good fit for the picture. Alfred Yaghobzadeh was working for the Gamma and Associated Press news agencies at the time of capturing the famous photograph. The same photo used as a propaganda for recruiting volunteers by Iranian authorities during war time and afterwards.\n\nJangju was a volunteer Basiji. He was killed in February 1984 during Operation Kheibar, part of the Battle of the Marshes, when Iran sent soldiers back over the Iraqi border, before they too became bogged down north of Basra.\n\nThe remains of his body was discovered and identified in the former Iran-Iraq war zone and sent back to Tabriz after 34 years on September 5, 2017. On September 6, 2017 the coffin of Hassan Jangju, which was draped in the Iranian flag, was borne through the streets by a huge crowd and laid to rest with full military honours. The ceremony for condolences to the Jangju's family was led by Ali Larijani, speaker of the Iranian parliament. A few hours after the funeral, his mother Jeyran Pourali died. Jangju's family described how the mother would lay out his clothes on a chair at the dinner table every evening, resembling his presence at home. One of his sisters explained: \"My mother always believed that she had given her child in the service of God, and therefore was calm, but she always looked forward to his return.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52909825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52909825", "title": "Hora (company)", "text": "Hora (company)\n\nHORA, officially S.C. Hora S.A. is a Romanian manufacturer of stringed musical instruments, based in Reghin. The company was founded in 1951 around the workshop of master luthier Roman Boianciuc as a state-owned enterprise.\n\nOver 80% of its products are exported to North America, Western and Northern Europe, Russia and Japan. HORA uses as raw materials spruce and maple wood from the Romanian Carpathians seasoned naturally for 5–10 years, as well as imported exotic wood like mahogany, Indian rosewood and ebony.\n\nThe company employs about 300 people (2017) and is the largest stringed instrument manufacturer in Europe.\n\nHORA owns and operates the Rapsodia musical instruments shop in Bucharest, founded in 1999.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3116273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116273", "title": "Imaginary Conversations", "text": "Imaginary Conversations\n\nImaginary Conversations is a publication consisting of five volumes of imaginary conversations, mainly between historical people of classical Greece and Rome, composed by the English author Walter Savage Landor. Landor's fame rests on this prose. The work is of great interest as a specimen of the poetic prose full of rich imagery & ornate diction as seen in De Quincey.\n\nThe Imaginary Conversations were begun when Landor, aged 46, was living with his family in Florence during 1821 where he had rooms in the Medici Palace and later rented the Villa Castigilione. The idea of the compositions began during his childhood as he wrote later: \"When I was younger..[a]mong the chief pleasures of my life, and among the commonest of my occupations was the bringing before me such heroes and heroines of antiquity, such poets and sages, such of the prosperous and unfortunate as most interested me … Engaging them in conversations best suited to their characters...\". The unenthusiastic reception of Landor's play “Count Julian” demonstrated that Landor, while adept at dialogue, lacked the dramatic capability necessary to convert it to stage performance, and he destroyed another tragedy “Ferranti and Giulio” in frustration at his publishers. \n\nAt Florence, Landor was corresponding with Robert Southey, who had planned to write a book of \"Colloquies\", and they considered collaborating on a project. Landor had finished fifteen dialogues by 9 March 1822, and sent them to Longman's company. Longman would not publish, so by the influence of his friend Julius Hare, he managed to get an agreement with the company of Taylor & Hessey to publish them. Some disputes with the publishers followed in which both Southey and William Wordsworth became involved, not without some embarrassment to Southey as one of the \"Conversations\" was between Southey and Porson on the merits of Wordsworth's poetry. During 1824, two volumes were published with eighteen conversations in each. The third volume of Imaginary Conversations was published by Henry Colburn during 1828 but Julius Hare was frustrated by Colburn’s delays, and the fourth and fifth volumes were finally published by James Duncan during 1829. Over the succeeding years Landor published occasional Imaginary Conversations as individual publications and collated a number of them during 1853.\n\nSome of the most notable conversations are as follows.\n\nVolume I (1824)\n\nVolume II (1824)\n\nVolume III (1828)\n\nVolume IV (1829)\n\nVolume V (1829)\n\nPublished in The Book of Beauty (1844)\nAesop and Rhodope.\n\n\"Imaginary Conversations\" was a favorite book of the character \"Tibby\" in E.M. Forster's 1910 novel, \"Howards End\".\n\nMentioned in the book and film 84 Charing Cross Road by Helene Hanff.\n\nIn \"The Gay Science\", Nietzsche praises Landor as a 'master of prose' for \"Imaginary Conversations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3243257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3243257", "title": "Invasion literature", "text": "Invasion literature\n\nInvasion literature (or the invasion novel) is a literary genre most notable between 1871 and the First World War (1914) but still practised to this day. The genre first became recognizable starting in Britain in 1871 with \"The Battle of Dorking\", a fictional account of an invasion of England by Germany. This short story was so popular it started a literary craze for tales that aroused imaginations and anxieties about hypothetical invasions by foreign powers, and by 1914 the genre had amassed a corpus of over 400 books, many best-sellers, and a world-wide audience. The genre was influential in Britain in shaping politics, national policies, and popular perceptions in the years leading up to the First World War, and remains a part of popular culture to this day. Several of the books were written by or ghostwritten for military officers and experts of the day who believed that the nation would be saved if the particular tactic that they favoured was or would be adopted.\n\nNearly a century before the invasion literature genre became a true popular phenomenon after the publication of \"The Battle of Dorking\" in the 1870s, a mini-boom of invasion stories appeared soon after the French developed the hot-air balloon. Poems and plays that centred on armies of balloons invading England could be found in France, and even America. However, it was not until the Prussians used advanced technologies such as breech-loading artillery and railroads to defeat the French in the 1870 War that the fear of invasion by a technologically superior enemy became more realistic.\n\n\"The Battle of Dorking\" (1871) by George Tomkyns Chesney first appeared in \"Blackwood's Magazine\", a respected Victorian political journal read by important British politicians. This short story describes the invasion of England by an unnamed enemy (who happen to speak German), in which the narrator and 1,000 citizens defend the small English town of Dorking, with no supplies or news of outside events. The story then moves forward in time 50 years and England is still devastated.\n\nThe author, like many of his countrymen at the time, was alarmed by Prussia's successful invasion of France in 1870, defeating Europe's largest army in only two months. \"The Battle of Dorking\" was initially meant to shock readers into becoming more aware of the possible dangers of a foreign threat, but unwittingly created a new literary genre appealing to popular anxieties. The story was an immediate success, with one reviewer saying \"We do not know that we ever saw anything better in any magazine... it describes exactly what we all feel.\" It was so popular that the magazine was re-printed six times, a new pamphlet version was created, dozens of spoofs were created, and it was for sale throughout the British Empire. One running joke in England at the time was an injury, such as a bruise or scrape, being attributed to a wound received at the battle of Dorking.\n\nBetween the publication of \"The Battle of Dorking\" in 1871 and the start of the First World War in 1914 there were hundreds of authors writing invasion literature, often topping the best seller lists in Germany, France, England and the United States. During the period it is estimated over 400 invasion works were published. Probably the best known work was H. G. Wells's \"The War of the Worlds\" (1898), bearing plot similarities to \"The Battle of Dorking\" but with a science fiction theme. In 1907, Wells wrote \"The War in the Air\", a cautionary tale depicting purely human invasions: a German invasion of the US triggers off a worldwide chain of attacks and counter-attacks, leading to the destruction of all major cities and centers, the collapse of world economy, disintegration of all the fighting nations and the sinking of the world into new Middle Ages.\n\n\"Dracula\" (1897) also tapped into English fears of foreign forces arriving unopposed on its shores, although between 1870 and 1903 the majority of these works assumed that the enemy would be France, rather than Germany. This changed with the publication of Erskine Childers's 1903 novel \"The Riddle of the Sands\". Often called the first modern spy novel, two men on a sailing holiday thwart a German invasion of England when they discover a secret fleet of invasion barges assembling on the German coast. Of these hundreds of authors, few are in print now. Saki is one of the exceptions, although his 1913 novel \"When William Came\" (subtitled \"A Story of London Under the Hohenzollerns\") is more jingoistic than literary. Another is John Buchan, whose novel \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\", published in 1915 but written just prior to the outbreak of World War I, is a thriller dealing with German agents in Britain preparing for an invasion.\n\nWilliam Le Queux was the most prolific author of the genre; his first novel was \"The Great War in England in 1897\" (1894) and he went on to publish from one to twelve novels a year until his death in 1927. His work was regularly serialised in newspapers, particularly the \"Daily Mail\", and attracted many readers. It is believed Ian Fleming's James Bond character was inspired by Le Queux's agent \"Duckworth Drew\". In some ways \"The Great War\" can be considered an antithesis to \"The Battle of Dorking\" – with the one ending for Britain in sombre and irrevocable defeat and decline, while in the other the invasion of London is pushed back in the last moment (with the help of Germany, portrayed as a staunch ally against France and Russia), with enormous territorial aggrandizement (Britain gets Algeria and Russian Central Asia; \"Britannia\" becomes \"Empress of the World\").\n\nLe Queux's most popular invasion novel was \"The Invasion of 1910\" (1906) which was translated into twenty-seven languages selling more than a million copies world-wide. Le Queux and his publisher changed the ending depending on the language, so in the German print edition the fatherland wins, while in the English edition the Germans lose. Le Queux was said to be Queen Alexandra's favorite author.\n\nP. G. Wodehouse parodied the genre in \"The Swoop!\", in which England is simultaneously invaded by nine different armies, including Switzerland and Germany. English elites appear to be more interested in a cricket tournament, and the country is eventually saved by a boy scout named Clarence.\n\nInvasion literature had its impact also in Japan, at the time undergoing a fast process of modernization. Shunrō Oshikawa, a pioneer of Japanese science fiction and adventure stories (genres unknown in Japan until a few years earlier), published around the start of the 20th century the best-seller \"Kaitō Bōken Kidan: Kaitei Gunkan\" (\"Undersea Battleship\"): the story of an armoured, ram-armed submarine involved in a future history of war between Japan and Russia. The novel reflected the imperialist ambitions of Japan at the time, and foreshadowed the Russo-Japanese War that followed a few years later, in 1904. When the actual war with Russia broke out, Oshikawa covered it as a journalist while also continuing to publish further volumes of fiction depicting Japanese imperial exploits set in the Pacific and Indian Ocean – which also proved an enormous success with the Japanese public. In a later career as a magazine editor, he also encouraged the writing of more fiction in the same vein by other Japanese authors.\n\nColonial Hong Kong's earliest work of invasion literature is believed to have been the 1897 \"The Back Door\". Published in serial form in a local English-language newspaper, it described a fictional French and Russian naval landing at Hong Kong Island's Deep Water Bay; the story was intended to criticise the lack of British funding for the defence of Hong Kong, and it is speculated that members of the Imperial Japanese Army may have read the book in preparation for the 1941 Battle of Hong Kong.\n\nOne of the earliest stories to appear in print in the U.S. was \"The Stricken Nation\" by Henry Grattan Donnelly published in 1890 in New York. It tells of a successful British invasion of the U.S. The move of American public opinion towards participation in World War I was reflected in \"Uncle Sam's Boys at The Invasion of the United States\" by H. Irving Hancock. This four-book series, published by the Henry Altemus Company in 1916, depicts a German invasion of the U.S. in 1920–1921. The plot seems to transfer the main story line of Le Queux's \"The Great War\" (with which the writer may have been familiar) to an American theatre: the Germans launch a surprise attack, capture Boston despite heroic resistance by \"Uncle Sam's boys\", overrun all of New England and New York and reach as far as Pittsburgh – but at last are gloriously crushed by fresh American forces.\n\nAustralia's contribution to invasion literature was set against the background of pre-Federation colonial fears of the \"Yellow Peril\" and the foundations of the White Australia policy. From the late 1880s through to the beginning of World War I, this fear was expressed in Australia through cartoons, poems, plays and novels. Three of the most well known of these novels were \"White or Yellow? A Story of the Race War of AD 1908\" (1888) by journalist William Lane, \"The Yellow Wave\" (1895) by Kenneth Mackay and \"The Australian Crisis\" (1909) by Charles H. Kirmess (possibly a pseudonym for another Australian author Frank Fox). Each of these novels contained two major common themes which were a reflection of the fears and concerns within a contemporary Australian context; the Australian continent was at risk of major invasion from a strong Asian power (ie. China or Japan, sometimes with the assistance of the Russian Empire) and that the United Kingdom was apathetic towards the protection of its faraway colonies, and would not come to Australia's aid when needed.\n\nThe \"First Red Scare\" following World War I produced Edgar Rice Burroughs's \"The Moon Men\" (1925), a depiction of Earth (and specifically, the United States) under the rule of cruel invaders from the Moon. This book is known to have been originally written as \"Under the Red Flag\", an explicit anti-Communist novel, and when rejected by the publishers in that form it was successfully \"recycled\" by Burroughs as science fiction.\n\nIvan Petrushevich's \"The Flying Submarine\" (1922), depicted an invasion of The United Kingdom by Soviet forces after most of Europe and Asia had fallen to communism. The story features the British fleet being destroyed by a swarm of insect-like single pilot submarines which can emerge from the water to attack their foes. \n\nRobert A. Heinlein's \"Sixth Column\" (1941) told the story of the invasion and conquest of the United States by the technologically advanced PanAsians, and the subsequent guerrilla struggle to overthrow them with even more advanced technology.\n\nFears of Communist invasion became even more pronounced in books like Robert A. Heinlein's \"The Puppet Masters\" (1951) and films like \"Invasion USA\" (1953) and a Department of Defense information film released to the general public \"Red Nightmare\" (1957). A more explicit Soviet invasion and occupation is depicted in Jerry Sohl's\" Point Ultimate\" (1955) – where the United States lies prostrate under cruel and degenerate Soviet occupiers, helped by \"Commie\" American collaborators – but a band of undaunted rebels manage the improbable feat of launching an extensive space program under the Soviets' noses, colonising Mars and using it as a base of operations. Similar themes were continued in the 1980s with the film \"Red Dawn\" (1984) and TV miniseries \"Amerika\" (1987).\n\nDuring the 1960s, the enemy was changed from the Soviet Union to Red China where China was shown as behind plots to destroy the American economy with a nuclear weapon in \"Goldfinger\" (1964), instigating a war between the USA and USSR in \"You Only Live Twice\" and invading the United States from tunnels dug beneath the ocean in \"Battle Beneath the Earth\" (1967).\n\nIn 1971, when realization of losing the Vietnam War was sinking into the American consciousness, two books appeared almost simultaneously, both depicting a United States under Soviet occupation. In \"Vandenberg\" by Oliver Lange – written, like \"Dorking\", as a cautionary tale – most Americans accept Soviet overlordship without much protest, the only resistance coming from a group of oddballs in a corner of New Mexico. In contrast, in John Ball's \"The First Team\" – as in \"The Great War\" – a seemingly hopeless situation is retrieved by a band of courageous patriots with the book ending on a note of uplifting liberation. The \"Amerika\" TV miniseries, depicting a Soviet-occupied US, was aired in 1987 - a time when Gorbachev's Perestroika already rendered its theme highly implausible. \n\nThe \"Tomorrow\" series by John Marsden, published between 1993 and 1999, detail an invasion of Australia by an unnamed country from the perspective of a band of teenage guerillas.\n\nAllebury, \"All Our Tomorrows\", resistance to a Soviet occupation of the U.K.\n\nStories of a planned German invasion rose to increasing political prominence from 1906. Taking their inspiration from the stories of Le Queux and Childers, hundreds of ordinary citizens began to suspect foreigners of espionage. This trend was accentuated by Le Queux, who collected 'sightings' brought to his attention by readers and raised them through his association with the Daily Mail. Subsequent research has since shown that no significant German espionage network existed in Britain at this time. Claims about the scale of German invasion preparations grew increasingly ambitious. The number of German spies was put at between 60,000 and 300,000 (in spite of the total German community in Britain being no more than 44,000 people). It was alleged that thousands of rifles were being stockpiled by German spies in order to arm saboteurs at the outbreak of war.\n\nCalls for government action grew ever more intense, and in 1909 it was given as the reason for the secret foundation of the Secret Service Bureau, the forerunner of MI5 and MI6. Historians today debate whether this was in fact the real reason, but in any case the concerns raised in invasion literature came to define the early duties of the Bureau's Home Section. Vernon Kell, the section head, remained obsessed with the location of these saboteurs, focusing his operational plans both before and during the war on defeating the saboteurs imagined by Le Queux.\n\nInvasion literature was not without detractors; policy experts in the years preceding the First World War said invasion literature risked inciting war between England and Germany and France. Critics such as Prime Minister Henry Campbell-Bannerman denounced Le Queux's \"The Invasion of 1910\" as \"calculated to inflame public opinion abroad and alarm the more ignorant public at home.\" Journalist Charles Lowe wrote in 1910: \"Among all the causes contributing to the continuance of a state of bad blood between England and Germany perhaps the most potent is the baneful industry of those unscrupulous writers who are forever asserting that the Germans are only awaiting a fitting opportunity to attack us in our island home and burst us up.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "290392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290392", "title": "Julius Evola", "text": "Julius Evola\n\nBaron Giulio Cesare Andrea Evola (; ; 19 May 1898 – 11 June 1974), better known as Julius Evola, was an Italian philosopher, painter, and esotericist. He has been described as a \"fascist intellectual,\" a \"radical traditionalist,\" \"antiegalitarian, antiliberal, antidemocratic, and antipopular,\" and as having been \"the leading philosopher of Europe's neofascist movement.\"\n\nEvola is popular in fringe circles, largely because of his extreme metaphysical, magical, and supernatural beliefs (including belief in ghosts, telepathy, and alchemy), and his extreme traditionalism and misogyny. He himself termed his philosophy \"magical idealism.\" Many of Evola's theories and writings were centered on his idiosyncratic mysticism, occultism, and esoteric religious studies, and this aspect of his work has influenced occultists and esotericists. Evola also justified rape (among other forms of male domination of women) because he saw it \"as a natural expression of male desire\". This misogynistic outlook stemmed from his extreme right views on gender roles, which demanded absolute submission from women.\n\nAccording to the scholar Franco Ferraresi, \"Evola's thought can be considered one of the most radical and consistent anti-egalitarian, anti-liberal, anti-democratic, and anti-popular systems in the twentieth century. It is a singular (though not necessarily original) blend of several schools and traditions, including German idealism, Eastern doctrines, traditionalism, and the all-embracing \"Weltanschauung\" of the interwar conservative revolutionary movement with which Evola had a deep personal involvement\". Historian Aaron Gillette described Evola as \"one of the most influential fascist racists in Italian history\". He admired SS head Heinrich Himmler, whom he once met. Evola spent World War II working for the \"Sicherheitsdienst\". During his trial in 1951, Evola denied being a fascist and instead referred to himself as a \"superfascist\". Concerning this statement, historian Elisabetta Cassina Wolff wrote that \"It is unclear whether this meant that Evola was placing himself above or beyond Fascism\".\n\nEvola was the \"chief ideologue\" of Italy's radical right after World War II. He continues to influence contemporary traditionalist and neo-fascist movements.\n\nGiulio Cesare Andrea Evola was born in Rome to a minor aristocratic family of Sicilian origins. He was a baron. Little is known about his early upbringing except that he considered it irrelevant. Evola studied engineering in Rome, but did not complete his studies because he \"did not want to be associated in any way with bourgeois academic recognition and titles such as doctor and engineer.\"\n\nIn his teenage years, Evola immersed himself in painting—which he considered one of his natural talents—and literature, including Oscar Wilde and Gabriele d'Annunzio. He was introduced to philosophers such as Friedrich Nietzsche and Otto Weininger. Other early philosophical influences included Carlo Michelstaedter and Max Stirner.\n\nEvola served in World War I as an artillery officer on the Asiago plateau. He was attracted to the avant-garde and after the war, Evola briefly associated with Filippo Tommaso Marinetti's Futurist movement. He became a prominent representative of Dadaism in Italy through his painting, poetry, and collaboration on the briefly published journal, \"Revue Bleue\". In 1922, after concluding that avant-garde art was becoming commercialized and stiffened by academic conventions, he reduced his focus on artistic expression such as painting and poetry.\n\nEvola died on 11 June 1974 in Rome.\n\nIn 1928, Evola wrote an attack on Christianity titled \"Pagan Imperialism\", which proposed transforming fascism into a system consistent with ancient Roman values and the ancient mystery traditions. Evola proposed that fascism should be a vehicle for reinstating the caste system and aristocracy of antiquity. Although Evola invoked the term \"fascism\" in this text, his diatribe against the Catholic Church was criticized by both the fascist regime and the Vatican itself. A. James Gregor argued that the text was an attack on fascism as it stood at the time of writing, but noted that Benito Mussolini made use of it in order to threaten the Vatican with the possibility of an \"anti-clerical fascism\". On account of Evola's sentiment, the Vatican-backed right wing Catholic journal \"Revue Internationale des Sociétés Secrètes\" published an article in April 1928 entitled \"Un Sataniste Italien: Julius Evola.\"\n\n\"The Mystery of the Grail\" discarded Christian interpretations of the Holy Grail. Evola wrote that the Grail \"symbolizes the principle of an immortalizing and transcendent force connected to the primordial state ... The mystery of the Grail is a mystery of a warrior initiation.\" He held that the Ghibellines, who fought the Guelph for control of Northern and Central Italy in the thirteenth century, had within them the residual influences of pre-Christian Celtic and Nordic traditions that represented his conception of the Grail myth. He also held that the Guelph victory against the Ghibellines represented a regression of the castes, since the merchant caste took over from the warrior caste. In the epilogue to this text, Evola argued that the fictitious \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", regardless of whether it was authentic or not, was a cogent representation of modernity. The historian Richard Barber said, \"Evola mixes rhetoric, prejudice, scholarship, and politics into a strange version of the present and future, but in the process he brings together for the first time interest in the esoteric and in conspiracy theory which characterize much of the later Grail literature.\"\n\nIn \"The Doctrine of Awakening\", Evola argued that the Pāli Canon could be held to represent true Buddhism. His interpretation of Buddhism is that it was intended to be anti-democratic. He believed that Buddhism revealed the essence of an \"Aryan\" tradition that had become corrupted and lost in the West. He believed it could be interpreted to reveal the superiority of a warrior caste. Harry Oldmeadow described Evola's work on Buddhism as exhibiting Nietzschean influence, but Evola criticized Nietzsche's anti-ascetic prejudice. The book \"received the official approbation of the Pāli [text] society\", and was published by a reputable Orientalist publisher. Evola's interpretation of Buddhism, as put forth in his article \"Spiritual Virility in Buddhism\", is in conflict with the post-WWII scholarship of the Orientalist Giuseppe Tucci, which argues that the viewpoint that Buddhism advocates universal benevolence is legitimate. Arthur Versluis stated that Evola's writing on Buddhism was a vehicle for his own theories, but was a far from accurate rendition of the subject, and he held that much the same could be said of Evola's writing on Hermeticism. Ñāṇavīra Thera was inspired to become a bhikkhu from reading Evola's text \"The Doctrine of Awakening\" in 1945 while hospitalized in Sorrento.\n\nEvola's \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" is a text that promotes the mythology of an ancient Golden Age. In this work, Evola described the features of his idealized traditional society. Evola argued that modernity represented a serious decline from an ideal society. He argued that in the postulated Golden age, religious and temporal power were united. He wrote that society had not been founded on priestly rule, but by warriors expressing spiritual power. In mythology, he saw evidence of the West's superiority over the East. Moreover, he claimed that the traditional elite had the ability to access power and knowledge through a hierarchical version of magic which differed from the lower \"superstitious and fraudulent\" forms of magic. Evola insists on \"nonmodern forms, institutions, and knowledge\" as being necessary to produce a \"real renewal ... in those who are still capable of receiving it.\" The text was \"immediately recognized by Mircea Eliade and other intellectuals who allegedly advanced ideas associated with Tradition.\" Eliade, one of Evola's closest friends, was a fascist sympathizer associated with the Romanian fascist Iron Guard. Evola was aware of the importance of myth from his readings of Georges Sorel, one of the key intellectual influences on fascism. Hermann Hesse described \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" as \"really dangerous.\"\n\nE. C. Wolff noted that in \"Ride the Tiger\" \"Evola argued that the fight against modernity was lost. The only thing a 'real man' could just do was to ride the tiger of modernity patiently\". Evola wrote that the events of the period would have to run their course but he \"did not exclude the possibility of action in the future.\" He argued that one should be ready to intervene when the tiger \"is tired of running.\" Goodrick-Clarke notes that, \"Evola sets up the ideal of the 'active nihilist' who is prepared to act with violence against modern decadence.\" According to European Studies professor Paul Furlong, this text presents Evola's view that the potential \"elite\" should immunize itself from modernity and use \"right wing anarchism\" to rebel against it.\n\nIn the posthumously published collection of writings, \"Metaphysics of War\", Evola, in line with the conservative revolutionary Ernst Jünger, explored the viewpoint that war could be a spiritually fulfilling experience. He proposed the necessity of a transcendental orientation in a warrior.\n\nNicholas Goodrick-Clarke has written that Evola's 1945 essay \"American 'Civilization'\" described the United States as \"the final stage of European decline into the 'interior formlessness' of vacuous individualism, conformity and vulgarity under the universal aegis of money-making.\" According to Goodrick-Clarke, Evola argued that U.S. \"mechanistic and rational philosophy of progress combined with a mundane horizon of prosperity to transform the world into an enormous suburban shopping mall.\"\n\nAround 1920, Evola's interests led him into spiritual, transcendental, and \"supra-rational\" studies. He began reading various esoteric texts and gradually delved deeper into the occult, alchemy, magic, and Oriental studies, particularly Tibetan Tantric yoga. A keen mountaineer, Evola described the experience as a source of revelatory spiritual experiences. After his return from the war, Evola experimented with hallucinogens and magic.\n\nWhen he was about 23 years old, Evola considered suicide. He claimed that he avoided suicide thanks to a revelation he had while reading an early Buddhist text that dealt with shedding all forms of identity other than absolute transcendence. Evola would later publish the text \"The Doctrine of Awakening\", which he regarded as a repayment of his debt to Buddhism for saving him from suicide.\n\nEvola wrote prodigiously on Eastern mysticism, Tantra, hermeticism, the myth of the Holy Grail and Western esotericism. German Egyptologist and esoteric scholar Florian Ebeling has noted that Evola's \"The Hermetic Tradition\" is viewed as an \"extremely important work on Hermeticism\" in the eyes of esotericists. Evola gave particular focus to Cesare della Riviera's text \"Il Mondo Magico degli Heroi\", which he later republished in modern Italian. He held that Riviera's text was consonant with the goals of \"high magic\" – the reshaping of the earthly human into a transcendental 'god man'. According to Evola, the alleged \"timeless\" Traditional science was able to come to lucid expression through this text, in spite of the \"coverings\" added to it to prevent accusations from the church. Though Evola rejected Carl Jung's interpretation of alchemy, Jung described Evola's \"The Hermetic Tradition\" as a \"magisterial account of Hermetic philosophy\". In \"Hegel and the Hermetic Tradition\", the philosopher Glenn Alexander Magee favored Evola's interpretation over that of Jung's. In 1988, a journal devoted to Hermetic thought published a section of Evola's book and described it as \"Luciferian.\"\n\nEvola later confessed that he was not a Buddhist, and that his text on Buddhism was meant to balance his earlier work on the Hindu \"tantras\". Evola's interest in tantra was spurred on by correspondence with John Woodroffe. Evola was attracted to the active aspect of tantra, and its claim to provide a practical means to spiritual experience, over the more \"passive\" approaches in other forms of Eastern spirituality. In \"Tantric Buddhism in East Asia\", Richard K. Payne, Dean of the Institute of Buddhist Studies, argued that Evola manipulated Tantra in the service of right wing violence, and that the emphasis on \"power\" in \"The Yoga of Power\" gave insight into his mentality.\n\nEvola advocated that \"differentiated individuals\" following the Left-Hand Path use dark violent sexual powers against the modern world. For Evola, these \"virile heroes\" are both generous and cruel, possess the ability to rule, and commit \"Dionysian\" acts that might be seen as conventionally immoral. For Evola, the Left Hand path embraces violence as a means of transgression.\n\nAccording to A. James Gregor Evola's definition of spirituality can be found in \"Meditations on the Peaks\": \"what has been successfully actualized and translated into a sense of superiority which is experienced inside by the soul, and a noble demeanor, which is expressed in the body.\" Goodrick-Clarke wrote that Evola's \"rigorous New Age spirituality speaks directly to those who reject absolutely the leveling world of democracy, capitalism, multi-racialism and technology at the outset of the twenty-first century. Their acute sense of cultural chaos can find powerful relief in his ideal of total renewal.\" Thomas Sheehan wrote that to \"read Evola is to take a trip through a weird and fascinating jungle of ancient mythologies, pseudo-ethnology, and transcendental mysticism that is enough to make any southern California consciousness-tripper feel quite at home.\"\n\nThomas Sheehan wrote that \"Evola's first philosophical works from the 'twenties were dedicated to reshaping neo-idealism from a philosophy of Absolute Spirit and Mind into a philosophy of the \"absolute individual\" and action.\" Accordingly, Evola developed the doctrine of \"magical idealism\", which held that \"the Ego must understand that everything that seems to have a reality independent of it is nothing but an illusion, caused by its own deficiency.\" For Evola, this ever-increasing unity with the \"absolute individual\" was consistent with unconstrained liberty, and therefore unconditional power. In his 1925 work \"Essays on Magical Idealism\", Evola declared that \"God does not exist. The Ego must create him by making itself divine.\"\n\nAccording to Sheehan, Evola discovered the power of metaphysical mythology while developing his theories. This led to his advocacy of supra-rational intellectual intuition over discursive knowledge. In Evola's view, discursive knowledge separates man from Being. Sheehan stated that this position is a theme in certain interpretations of Western philosophers such as Plato, Thomas Aquinas, and Martin Heidegger that was exaggerated by Evola. Evola would later write:\n\nEvola developed a doctrine of the \"two natures\": the natural world and the primordial \"world of 'Being'\". He believed that these \"two natures\" impose form and quality on lower matter and create a hierarchical \"great chain of Being.\" He understood \"spiritual virility\" as signifying orientation towards this postulated transcendent principle. He held that the State should reflect this \"ordering from above\" and the consequent hierarchical differentiation of individuals according to their \"organic preformation\". By \"organic preformation\" he meant that which \"gathers, preserves, and refines one's talents and qualifications for determinate functions.\"\n\nEvola was introduced to esotericism by Arturo Reghini, who was an early supporter of fascism. Reghini sought to promote a \"cultured magic\" opposed to Christianity and introduced Evola to the traditionalist René Guénon. In 1927, Reghini and Evola, along with other Italian esotericists, founded the \"Gruppo di Ur\" (\"Ur Group\"). The purpose of this group was to attempt to bring the members' individual identities into such a superhuman state of power and awareness that they would be able to exert a magical influence on the world. The group employed techniques from Buddhist, Tantric, and rare Hermetic texts. They aimed to provide a \"soul\" to the burgeoning Fascist movement of the time through the revival of ancient Roman religion, and to influence the fascist regime through esotericism.\n\nArticles on occultism from the Ur Group were later published in \"Introduction to Magic\". Reghini's support of Freemasonry would however prove a bone of contention for Evola; accordingly, Evola broke with Reghini in 1928. Reghini himself broke from Evola, accusing Evola of plagiarizing his thoughts in the book \"Pagan Imperialism\". Evola, on the other hand, blamed Reghini for the premature publication of \"Pagan Imperialism\". Evola's later work owed a considerable debt to René Guénon's text \"Crisis of the Modern World\", though he diverged from Guénon on the issue of the relationship between warriors and priests.\n\nJulius Evola believed that the alleged higher qualities expected of a man of a particular race were not those expected of a woman of the same race. He held that \"just relations between the sexes\" involved women acknowledging their \"inequality\" with men. In 1925, he wrote an article titled \"La donna come cosa\" (\"Woman as Thing\"). Evola later quoted Joseph de Maistre's statement that \"Woman cannot be superior except as woman, but from the moment in which she desires to emulate man she is nothing but a monkey.\" Evola believed that women's liberation was \"the renunciation by woman of her right to be a woman\". A woman \"could traditionally participate in the sacred hierarchical order only in a mediated fashion through her relationship with a man.\" He held, as a feature of his idealized gender relations, the Hindu sati, which for him was a form of sacrifice indicating women's respect for patriarchal traditions. For the \"pure, feminine\" woman, \"man is not perceived by her as a mere husband or lover, but as her lord.\" Women would find their true identity in total subjugation to men.\n\nEvola regarded matriarchy and goddess religions as a symptom of decadence, and preferred a hyper-masculine, warrior ethos.\n\nEvola was influenced by Hans Blüher; he was a proponent of the \"Männerbund\" concept as a model for his proposed ultra-fascist \"Order\". Goodrick-Clarke noted the fundamental influence of Otto Weininger's misogynist book \"Sex and Character\" on Evola's dualism of male-female spirituality. According to Goodrich-Clarke, \"Evola's celebration of virile spirituality was rooted in Weininger's work, which was widely translated by the end of the First World War.\" Unlike Weininger, Evola believed that women needed to be conquered, not ignored. Evola denounced homosexuality as \"useless\" for his purposes. He did not neglect sadomasochism, so long as sadism and masochism \"are magnifications of an element potentially present in the deepest essence of eros.\" Then, it would be possible to \"extend, in a transcendental and perhaps ecstatic way, the possibilities of sex.\"\n\nEvola held that women \"played\" with men, threatened their masculinity, and lured them into a \"constrictive\" grasp with their sexuality. He wrote that \"It should not be expected of women that they return to what they really are ... when men themselves retain only the semblance of true virility\", and lamented that \"men instead of being in control of sex are controlled by it and wander about like drunkards\". He believed that in Tantra and in sex magic, in which he saw a strategy for aggression, he found the means to counter the \"emasculated\" West. According to Annalisa Merelli, Evola \"went so far as to justify rape\" because he saw it \"as a natural expression of male desire\". Evola also said that the \"ritual violation of virgins\", and \"whipping women\" were a means of \"consciousness raising\", so long as these practices were done to the intensity required to produce the proper \"liminal psychic climate\". He wrote that \"as a rule, nothing stirs a man more than feeling the woman utterly exhausted beneath his own hostile rapture.\"\n\nEvola translated Weininger's \"Sex and Character\" into Italian. Dissatisfied with simply translating Weininger's work, he wrote the text \"Eros and the Mysteries of Love: The Metaphysics of Sex\", where his views on sexuality were dealt with at length. Arthur Versluis described this text as Evola's \"most interesting\" work aside from \"Revolt Against the Modern World\". This book remains popular among many New Age adherents.\n\nEvola's dissent from standard biological concepts of race had roots in his aristocratic elitism, since Nazi \"völkisch\" ideology inadequately separated aristocracy from \"commoners.\" According to Furlong, Evola developed \"the law of the regression of castes\" in \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" and other writings on racism from the 1930s and World War II period. In Evola's view \"power and civilization have progressed from one to another of the four castes—sacred leaders, warrior nobility, bourgeoisie (economy, 'merchants') and slaves\". Furlong explains: \"for Evola, the core of racial superiority lay in the spiritual qualities of the higher castes, which expressed themselves in physical as well as in cultural features, but were not determined by them. The law of the regression of castes places racism at the core of Evola's philosophy, since he sees an increasing predominance of lower races as directly expressed through modern mass democracies.\"\n\nIn 1941, Evola's book \"Synthesis of the Doctrine of Race\" (Italian: \"Sintesi di Dottrina della Razza\") was published by Hoepli. It provides an overview of his ideas concerning race and eugenics, introducing the concept of \"spiritual racism\", and \"esoteric-traditionalist racism\".\n\nPrior to the end of War, Evola had frequently used the term \"Aryan\" to mean the nobility, who in his view were imbued with traditional spirituality. Wolff notes that Evola seems to have stopped writing about race in 1945, but adds that the intellectual themes of Evola's writings were otherwise unchanged. Evola continued to write about elitism and his contempt for the weak. His \"doctrine of the Aryan-Roman 'super-race was simply restated as a doctrine of the 'leaders of men' ... no longer with reference to the SS, but to the mediaeval Teutonic knights of the Knights Templar, already mentioned in Rivolta.\"\n\nEvola spoke of \"inferior non-European races\". Peter Merkl wrote that \"Evola was never prepared to discount the value of blood altogether\". Evola wrote: \"a certain balanced consciousness and dignity of race can be considered healthy\" in a time where \"the exaltation of the negro and all the rest, anticolonialist psychosis and integrationist fanaticism [are] all parallel phenomena in the decline of Europe and the West.\" While not totally against race-mixing, in 1957, Evola wrote an article attributing the perceived acceleration of American decadence to the influence of \"negroes\" and the opposition to segregation. Furlong noted that this article is \"among the most extreme in phraseology of any he wrote, and exhibits a degree of intolerance that leaves no doubt as to his deep prejudice against black people.\"\n\nFor his spiritual interpretation of the different racial psychologies, Evola found the work of German race theorist Ludwig Ferdinand Clauss invaluable. Like Evola, Clauss believed that physical race and spiritual race could diverge as a consequence of miscegenation. Evola's racism included racism of the body, soul, and spirit, giving primacy to the latter factor, writing that \"races only declined when their spirit failed.\"\n\nLike René Guénon, Evola believed that mankind is living in the Kali Yuga of the Hindu tradition—the Dark Age of unleashed, materialistic appetites. He argued that both Italian fascism and Nazism represented hope that the \"celestial\" Aryan race would be reconstituted. He drew on mythological accounts of super-races and their decline, particularly the Hyperboreans, and maintained that traces of Hyperborean influence could be felt in Indo-European man. He felt that Indo-European men had devolved from these higher mythological races. Gregor noted that several contemporary criticisms of Evola's theory were published: \"In one of Fascism's most important theoretical journals, Evola's critic pointed out that many Nordic-Aryans, not to speak of Mediterranean Aryans, fail to demonstrate any Hyperborean properties. Instead, they make obvious their materialism, their sensuality, their indifference to loyalty and sacrifice, together with their consuming greed. How do they differ from 'inferior' races, and why should anyone wish, in any way, to favor them?\"\n\nConcerning the relationship between \"spiritual racism\" and biological racism, Evola put forth the following viewpoint, which Furlong described as pseudo-scientific:\n\nEvola endorsed Otto Weininger's views on the Jews. Though Evola viewed Jews as corrosive and anti-traditional, he described Adolf Hitler's more fanatical anti-Semitism as a paranoid idée fixe that damaged the reputation of the Third Reich. Evola's conception did not emphasize the Nazi racial conception of Jews as \"representatives of a biological race\"—in Evola's view the Jews were \"the carriers of a world view ... a spirit [that] corresponded to the 'worst' and 'most decadent' features of modernity: democracy, egalitarianism and materialism.\"\n\nEvola argued that \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\"—whether or not a forgery—accurately reflect the conditions of modernity. He believed that the \"Protocols\" \"contain the plan for an occult war, whose objective is the utter destruction, in the non-Jewish peoples, of all tradition, class, aristocracy, and hierarchy, and of all moral, religious, and spiritual values.\" He wrote the foreword to the second Italian edition of the \"Protocols\", which was published by the Fascist Giovanni Preziosi in 1938.\n\nFollowing the murder of his friend Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, the leader of the Fascist Romanian Iron Guard, Evola expressed anticipation of a \"talmudic, Israelite tyranny.\" However, Evola believed that Jews had this \"power\" only because of European \"decadence\" in modernity. He also believed that one could be \"Aryan\", but have a \"Jewish\" soul, just as one could be \"Jewish\", but have an \"Aryan\" soul. In Evola's view Otto Weininger and Carlo Michelstaedter were Jews of \"sufficiently heroic, ascetic, and sacral\" character to fit the latter category.\n\nEvola developed a complex line of argument, closely related to the spiritual orientation of Traditionalist writers such as René Guénon and the political concerns of the European Authoritarian Right. Evola's first published political work was an anti-fascist piece in 1925. In this work, Evola called Italy's fascist movement a \"laughable revolution,\" based on empty sentiment and materialistic concerns. He applauded Mussolini's anti-bourgeois orientation and his goal of making Italian citizens into hardened warriors, but criticized Fascist populism, party politics, and elements of leftism that he saw in the fascist regime. Evola saw Mussolini's Fascist Party as possessing no cultural or spiritual foundation. He was passionate about infusing it with these elements in order to make it suitable for his ideal conception of \"Übermensch\" culture which, in Evola's view, characterized the imperial grandeur of pre-Christian Europe. He expressed anti-nationalist sentiment, stating that to become \"truly human,\" one would have to \"overcome brotherly contamination\" and \"purge oneself\" of the feeling that one is united with others \"because of blood, affections, country or human destiny.\" He also opposed the futurism that Italian fascism was aligned with, along with the \"plebeian\" nature of the movement. Accordingly, Evola launched the journal \"La Torre\" (The Tower), to voice his concerns and advocate for a more elitist fascism. Evola's ideas were poorly received by the fascist mainstream as it stood at the time of his writing.\n\nScholars disagree about why Benito Mussolini embraced racist ideology in 1938—some scholars have written that Mussolini was more motivated by political considerations than ideology when he introduced anti-semitic legislation in Italy. Other scholars have rejected the argument that the racial ideology of Italian fascism could be attributed solely to Nazi influence. A more recent interpretation is that Mussolini was frustrated by the slow pace of fascist transformation and, by 1938, had adopted increasingly radical measures including a racial ideology. Aaron Gillette has written that \"Racism would become the key driving force behind the creation of the new fascist man, the \"uomo fascista\".\"\n\nMussolini read Evola's \"Synthesis of the Doctrine of Race\" in August 1941, and met with Evola to offer him his praise. Evola later recounted that Mussolini had found in his work a uniquely Roman form of Fascist racism distinct from that found in Nazi Germany. With Mussolini's backing, Evola launched the minor journal \"Sangue e Spirito\" (Blood and Spirit). While not always in agreement with German racial theorists, Evola traveled to Germany in February 1942 and obtained support for German collaboration on \"Sangue e Spirito\" from \"key figures in the German racial hierarchy.\" Fascists appreciated the palingenetic value of Evola's \"proof\" \"that the true representatives of the state and the culture of ancient Rome were people of the Nordic race.\" Evola eventually became Italy's leading racial philosopher.\n\nEvola blended Sorelianism with Mussolini's eugenics agenda. Evola has written that \"The theory of the Aryo-Roman race and its corresponding myth could integrate the Roman idea proposed, in general, by fascism, as well as give a foundation to Mussolini's plan to use his state as a means to elevate the average Italian and to enucleate in him a new man.\"\n\nIn May, 1951, Evola was arrested and charged with promoting the revival of the Fascist Party, and of glorifying Fascism. Defending himself at trial, Evola stated that his work belonged to a long tradition of anti-democratic writers who certainly could be linked to fascism—at least fascism interpreted according to certain Evolian criteria—but who certainly could not be identified with the Fascist regime under Mussolini. Evola then declared that he was not a Fascist but a \"superfascist\". He was acquitted.\n\nFinding Italian fascism too compromising, Evola began to seek recognition in Nazi Germany. Evola spent a considerable amount of time in Germany in 1937 and 1938, and gave a series of lectures to the German–Italian Society in 1938. Evola took issue with Nazi populism and biological materialism. SS authorities initially rejected Evola's ideas as supranational and aristocratic though he was better received by members of the conservative revolutionary movement. The Nazi Ahnenerbe reported that many considered his ideas to be pure \"fantasy\" which ignored \"historical facts.\". Evola admired Heinrich Himmler, whom he knew personally, but he had reservations about Adolf Hitler because of Hitler's reliance on \"völkisch\" nationalism. Himmler's Schutzstaffel (\"SS\") kept a dossier on Evola—dossier document AR-126 described his plans for a \"Roman-Germanic Imperium\" as \"utopian\" and described him as a \"reactionary Roman,\" whose goal was an \"insurrection of the old aristocracy against the modern world.\" The document recommended that the SS \"stop his effectiveness in Germany\" and provide him with no support, particularly because of his desire to create a \"secret international order\".\n\nDespite this opposition, Evola was able to establish political connections with pan-Europeanist elements inside the Reich Main Security Office. Evola subsequently ascended to the inner circles of Nazism as the influence of pan-European advocates overtook that of Völkisch proponents, due to military contingencies. Evola wrote the article \"Reich and Imperium as Elements in the New European Order\" for the Nazi-backed journal \"European Review\". He spent World War II working for the Sicherheitsdienst. The Sicherheitsdienst bureau Amt VII, a Reich Main Security Office research library, helped Evola acquire arcane occult and Masonic texts.\n\nItalian Fascism went into decline when, in 1943, Mussolini was deposed and imprisoned. At this point, Evola fled to Germany with the help of the Sicherheitsdienst. Although not a member of the National Fascist Party, and despite his apparent problems with the Fascist regime, Evola was one of the first people to greet Mussolini when the latter was broken out of prison by Otto Skorzeny in 1943. Subsequently, Evola helped welcome Mussolini to Adolf Hitler's Wolf's Lair. Following this, Evola involved himself in Mussolini's Italian Social Republic. It was Evola's custom to walk around the city of Vienna during bombing raids in order to better \"ponder his destiny\". During one such raid, 1945, a shell fragment damaged his spinal cord and he became paralyzed from the waist down, remaining so for the rest of his life.\n\nAfter World War II, Evola continued his work in esotericism. He wrote a number of books and articles on sex magic and various other esoteric studies, including \"The Yoga of Power: Tantra, Shakti, and the Secret Way\" (1949), \"Eros and the Mysteries of Love: The Metaphysics of Sex\" (1958), and \"Meditations on the Peaks: Mountain Climbing as Metaphor for the Spiritual Quest\" (1974). He also wrote his two explicitly political books \"Men Among the Ruins: Post-War Reflections of a Radical Traditionalist\" (1953), \"Ride the Tiger: A Survival Manual for the Aristocrats of the Soul\" (1961), and his autobiography, \"The Path of Cinnabar\" (1963). He also expanded upon critiques of American civilization and materialism, as well as increasing American influence in Europe, collected in the posthumous anthology \"Civiltà Americana\".\n\nEvola's occult ontology exerted influence over post-war neo-fascism. In the post-war period, Evola's writing evoked interest among the neo-fascist right. After 1945, Evola was considered the most important Italian theoretician of the conservative revolutionary movement and the \"chief ideologue\" of Italy's post-war radical right. According to Egil Asprem and Kennet Granholm, Evola's most significant post-war political texts are \"Orientamenti\" and \"Men Among the Ruins\".\n\n\"Orientamenti\" was a text against \"national fascism\"—instead, it advocated for a European Community modeled on the principles of the Waffen-SS. The Italian Neo-fascist group Ordine Nuovo adopted \"Orientamenti\" as a guide for action in postwar Italy. The European Liberation Front, who were affiliated with Francis Parker Yockey, called Evola \"Italy's gretest living authoritarian philosopher\" in the April 1951 issue of their publication \"Frontfighter\".\n\nDuring the post-war period, Evola attempted to dissociate himself from totalitarianism, preferring the concept of the \"organic\" state, which he put forth in his text \"Men Among the Ruins\". Evola sought to develop a strategy for the implementation of a \"conservative revolution\" in post World War II Europe. He rejected nationalism, advocating instead for a European \"Imperium\", which could take various forms according to local conditions, but should be \"organic, hierarchical, anti-democratic, and anti-individual.\" Evola endorsed Francis Parker Yockey's neo-fascist manifesto \"Imperium\", but disagreed with it because he believed that Yockey had a \"superficial\" understanding of what was immediately possible. Evola believed that his conception of neo-fascist Europe could best be implemented by an elite of \"superior\" men who operated outside normal politics.\n\nGiuliano Salierni was an activist in the neo-Fascist Italian Social Movement during the early 1950s. He later recalled Evola's calls to violence. Roberto Fiore and his colleagues in the early 1980s helped the National Fronts \"Political Soldiers\" forge a militant elitist philosophy based on Evola's \"most militant tract\", \"The Aryan Doctrine of Battle and Victory\". \"The Aryan Doctrine\" called for a \"Great Holy War\" that would be fought for spiritual renewal and fought in parallel to the physical \"Little Holy War\" against perceived enemies. Wolff attributes extreme-right terrorist actions in Italy in the 1970s and 1980s to the influence of Julius Evola.\n\nThomas Sheehan has argued that Evola's work is essential reading for those seeking to understand Eurofascism, in the same way that knowledge of the writings of Karl Marx is necessary for those seeking to understand Communist actions.\n\nThe Italian Fascist leader Benito Mussolini, the Nazi Grail seeker Otto Rahn, and the Romanian fascist sympathizer and religious historian Mircea Eliade admired Julius Evola. After World War II, Evola's writings continued to influence many European far-right political, racist and neo-fascist movements. He is widely translated in French, Spanish, partly in German, and mostly in Hungarian (the largest number of his translated works [see <http://www.tradicio.org/bibliographia.pdf> pp. 130–154]). Amongst those he has influenced are the American Blackshirts Party, the \"esoteric Hitlerist\" Miguel Serrano, Savitri Devi, GRECE, the Movimento sociale italiano (MSI), Gaston Armand Amaudruz's Nouvel Ordre Européen, Pino Rauti's Ordine Nuovo, Troy Southgate, Alain de Benoist, Michael Moynihan, Giorgio Freda, the Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari (Armed Revolutionary Nuclei), Eduard Limonov, Forza Nuova, CasaPound Italia, Tricolor Flame and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Giorgio Almirante referred to him as \"our Marcuse—only better.\" According to one leader of the neofascist \"black terrorist\" Ordine Nuovo, \"Our work since 1953 has been to transpose Evola's teachings into direct political action.\" The now defunct French fascist group Troisième Voie was also inspired by Evola. Jonathan Bowden, English political activist and chairman of the far right, spoke highly of Evola and his ideas and gave lectures on his philosophy.\n\nEvola has also influenced the alt-right movement, which also cites Oswald Spengler, H.L Mencken, Sam Francis, and Pat Buchanan as influences. Additionally, Evola has influenced Vladimir Putin advisor Aleksander Dugin. The Greek neo-Nazi party Golden Dawn includes his works on its suggested reading list, and the leader of Jobbik, the Hungarian nationalist party, admires Evola and wrote an introduction to his works. Umberto Eco referred to Evola as the \"most influential theoretical source of the theories of the new Italian right\", and as \"one of the most respected fascist gurus\".\n\nDonald Trump's former chief adviser Steve Bannon noted Evola's influence on the Eurasianism movement; According to Joshua Green's book \"Devil's Bargain\", Evola's \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" had initially drawn Bannon's interest to the ideas of the Traditionalist School. Alt-right leader Richard B. Spencer said that Bannon's awareness of Evola \"means a tremendous amount\". Some members of the alt-right expressed hope that Bannon might have been open to Evola's ideas, and that through Bannon, Evola's ideas could become influential. According to multiple historians cited by \"The Atlantic\", this is contradictory, as Bannon cited Evola in defense of the \"Judeo-Christian west\", while Evola hated and opposed Judaism and Jews, Christianity in general, Anglo-Saxon Protestantism specifically, and the culture of the United States. In a leaked email sent by Bannon in March 2016, he told Milo Yiannopoulos, \"I do appreciate any piece that mentions Evola.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57919537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57919537", "title": "July Fourteenth, Rue Daunou, 1910", "text": "July Fourteenth, Rue Daunou, 1910\n\nJuly Fourteenth, Rue Daunou, 1910 is an early 20th century painting by American impressionist Childe Hassam. Done in oil on canvas, the painting depicts the celebration of Bastille Day in Paris.\n\n\"July Fourteenth, Rue Daunou, 1910\" depicts the celebration of Bastille Day from the artist's viewpoint on top of the Hôtel l’Empire in Paris. The street below is thronged with automobiles and people, while the flags of France, Belgium, and the United States are being flown on various buildings. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, where the painting is now on display, considers the painting to be a precursor to Hassam's famous Flag Series.\n\nIt is on display in the Metropolitan Museums's Gallery 774.\n"}
{"id": "432341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432341", "title": "Katherine Helmond", "text": "Katherine Helmond\n\nKatherine Marie Helmond (born July 5, 1929) is an American film, theater and television actress and director. Over her five decades of television acting, she is known for her starring role as ditzy matriarch Jessica Tate on the ABC prime time soap opera sitcom \"Soap\" (1977–1981) and her co-starring role as feisty mother Mona Robinson on \"Who's the Boss?\" (1984–1992). She also played Doris Sherman on \"Coach\" and Lois Whelan, the mother of Debra Barone on \"Everybody Loves Raymond\". She has also appeared as a guest on several talk and variety shows.\n\nHelmond has had many supporting roles in films such as Alfred Hitchcock's \"Family Plot\" (1976) and Terry Gilliam's \"Brazil\" (1985). She also voiced Lizzie in the three \"Cars\" films by Disney/Pixar.\n\nAfter her stage debut in \"As You Like It\", she began working in New York in 1955. She later ran a summer theatre in the Catskills for three seasons and taught acting in university theatre programs. She made her television debut in 1962, but would not achieve fame until the 1970s. She also acted on stage, earning a Tony nomination for her performance on Broadway in Eugene O'Neill's \"The Great God Brown\" (1973). Other Broadway productions include \"Private Lives\", \"Don Juan\" and \"Mixed Emotions\". \n\nHelmond appeared in such feature films as \"Family Plot\" (1976) and \"Brazil\" (1985), in which she played the mother of Jonathan Pryce's character. In 1983, she studied at the American Film Institute's Directing Workshop. She went on to direct four episodes of the television series \"Benson\" as well as one episode of \"Who's the Boss?\" (1984). She picked up Emmy nominations for her role as Mona Robinson in \"Who's the Boss\" and as Lois Whelan in \"Everybody Loves Raymond\". She has continued working, receiving acclaim for her stage performance in Eve Ensler's \"The Vagina Monologues\". (2001)\n\nHelmond appeared in \"The Legend of Lizzie Borden\" (1975) as Emma Borden, the title character's sister. She appeared in an episode of the short-lived 1976 CBS adventure series, \"Spencer's Pilots\", starring Gene Evans. Helmond gained prominence as Jessica Tate, the ditzy matriarch of the Tate family in \"Soap\" (1977–1981) on ABC. From 1984 to 1992, she played the role of Mona Robinson on the ABC sitcom \"Who's the Boss?\". The show was a ratings success, running for eight seasons and finishing in the Nielsen 'Top 10' four straight years. In 1993, she appeared in one episode of the British version of \"Who's the Boss?\", \"The Upper Hand\". \n\nFrom 1995 to 1997, she starred in the ABC sitcom \"Coach\" as Doris Sherman, eccentric owner of the fictional Orlando Breakers professional football team. From 1996 to 2004, she had a recurring role on \"Everybody Loves Raymond\" as Lois Whelan (Ray Barone's mother-in-law). On July 25, 2010, she guest-starred on A&E's \"The Glades\". She also guest starred as Caroline Bellefleur on HBO's \"True Blood\". \n\nHelmond was born on July 5, 1929, in Galveston, Texas, the only child of Thelma (née Malone; May 13, 1910 – October 10, 1981) and Joseph P. Helmond (March 11, 1904 – January 31, 1983). She was raised by her mother and grandmother, both devout Roman Catholics. She attended a Catholic primary school and appeared in numerous school plays.\n\nIn 1957, Helmond married George N. Martin. After their divorce she married her second husband, David Christian, and the couple have been together since 1962. She has no children. They have owned homes in Los Angeles, New York City, Long Island and London. She and her husband have a history as students of Zen. \n\nShe was nominated for Broadway's 1973 Tony Award as Best Supporting or Featured Actress (Dramatic) for Eugene O'Neill's \"The Great God Brown\". She was nominated for an Emmy for her role on \"Soap\" four times in a row (1978–1981) as Best Actress in a Comedy Series. In 1988 and 1989, she was nominated as Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for her role on \"Who's the Boss?\". In 2002, she was nominated as Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for her role in \"Everybody Loves Raymond\". \n"}
{"id": "55690983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55690983", "title": "Kirsten Beyer", "text": "Kirsten Beyer\n\nKirsten Beyer is an American science fiction writer, best known for her based on the \"\" television series. She is a staff writer for \"\", and functions as the coordinator for \"Discovery\" tie-in media, such as comic books and novels, on behalf of CBS.\n\nShe has also written for the Buffyverse.\n\nLittle is known of Beyer's career prior to her involvement with \"Star Trek: Voyager\".\n\nAfter corresponding with \"Voyager\" show runner Jeri Taylor expressing an interest in writing for television, Beyer was invited to pitch for the series. She pitched stories from \"Voyager\" seasons five (1998) until seven (2000), but none were produced.\n\nBeyer was encouraged to send a query package to Pocket Books by her writing partner, Heather Jarman. The query was accepted, and development of a new \"Voyager\" tie-in novel began. However, the editor leading the development moved on to other projects, and the unnamed novel was never realized. Beyer was later introduced to Marco Palmieri, editor of the \"Star Trek\" line at Pocket Books, while attending the Shore Leave science fiction convention with Jarman. Palmieri agreed to accept samples of her work, and invited Beyer to write for him a few days later.\n\nBeyer's first published novel with Palmieri was \"Fusion\" (), the second book in the \"Voyager: String Theory\" miniseries. A subplot of the novel, involving the Vulcan character Tuvok, was originally a \"Voyager\" episode pitch titled \"Siren's Song\". Another unproduced pitch became the short story \"Isabo's Shirt\", anthologized in \"Distant Shores\" (). Beyer becoming the lead writer of the \"Voyager\" novel series, replacing Christie Golden, with the release of \"Full Circle\" in . She has completed nine novels in the series since 2009, with a tenth planned.\n\nIn , Beyer was hired as a staff writer for \"\". She believes she was recruited because of her familiarity with \"Star Trek\" canon, and because of her experience as a tie-in fiction writer. She has contributed to the \"Discovery\" comics line published by IDW from its first issue.\n\nBeyer was revealed as a writer of an upcoming \"Star Trek\" series, detailing the later years of the character Jean-Luc Picard, via a Twitter post by actor Patrick Stewart.\n\nBeyer regularly attends science fiction conventions such as Star Trek Las Vegas, Shore Leave, and Dragon Con. She frequently appears as a guest on \"Star Trek\"-focused podcasts to promote her book releases, and to discuss \"Discovery\" production news.\n\n\n\n\nBeyer is a staff writer for the television series.\n\n\nCredited as \"Comic story writer\", with Mike Johnson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56118997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56118997", "title": "List of Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame inductees", "text": "List of Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame inductees\n\nThe Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame (LSHOF) was established in 2012 by Rudy Pérez and Desmond Child in the United States to \"educate, preserve, honor and celebrate the legacy of the greatest Latin songwriters from all over the world and their music in every genre\". According to Child, the organization was created to recognize songwriters who are rarely acknowledged for their compositions. He cited \"Livin' la Vida Loca\" by Ricky Martin as an example when searching the song's lyrics for the Internet with neither him nor Draco Rosa being credited for writing the song.\n\nThe organization's committee is made up of music professional from 21 Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking countries in Latin America, Europe, and the United States. Nominees for the LSHOF are chosen by the committees while inductees are voted by the public. For a songwriter to be considered, they must have a composed a hit song at least twenty years old. Both living and deceased songwriters are eligible to be inducted into the LSHOF.\n\nThe inductions were first held in 2013: Manuel Alejandro, José Ángel Espinoza, José Feliciano, Julio Iglesias, Armando Manzanero, Concha Valdés Miranda, and Roberto Cantoral were the first songwriters to be inducted. The latter was posthumously inducted. Mexico is the country with the most songwriters inducted with twelve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40091830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40091830", "title": "List of World Architecture Festival winners", "text": "List of World Architecture Festival winners\n\nThis is a list of awards, winners and commendations awarded by the international World Architecture Festival (WAF). \n\nIn 2008 all winners were award winners. In 2009 and later only 5 of the winners were declared award winners.\n\nThe list is compiled from the official websites of World Architecture Festival and World Buildings Directory. Where there was a discrepancy between the information on the project page and the winner list with WAF, the information from the WAF list was used. All names are spelled as in the WAF list, links may therefore lead to articles with different spellings. In some cases the projects were renamed after receiving the award.\nThe notes to the list contain a link to the project page with World Buildings Directory and are sorted in the same sequence as in the winner lists published by the World Architecture Festival.\n\nThe notes to the list contain a link to the project page with World Buildings Directory, and are sorted in the same sequence as in the winner lists published by the World Architecture Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4147033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4147033", "title": "List of artists who have participated in the Casals Festival", "text": "List of artists who have participated in the Casals Festival\n\nThis is a list of artists who have participated in the Casals Festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24698571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698571", "title": "Lundgaard &amp; Tranberg", "text": "Lundgaard &amp; Tranberg\n\nLundgaard & Tranberg Arkitekter is a Danish architectural firm, based in Copenhagen Denmark. It is most noted for the Tietgenkollegiet student housing in Ørestad from 2006 and the Royal Danish Playhouse on the Copenhagen harbourfront from 2008. Lundgaard & Tranberg has won RIBA European Awards three years in a row in 2006, 2007 and 2008.\n\nLundgaard & Tranberg was founded in 1983 by Boje Lundgaard and Lene Tranberg. In the 1990s, the firm gained a reputation as designers of heat & power plant and other technical facilities, while its breakthrough in the general public came in the mid-2000s with the Charlottehaven from residential project from 2004 and particularly the award-winning and highly celebrated designs for the Tietgenkollegiet student residences and a new building for the Royal Danish Theater. In 2004, just when the firm's major success set in, Boje Lundgaard departed, and Lene Tranberg continued the practice with a new partner group.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7133303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7133303", "title": "Maqbaratoshoara", "text": "Maqbaratoshoara\n\nMaqbarat-o-shoara () or the Mausoleum of Poets ( \"Mazār-e Shāerān\" or \"Mazār-e Sorāyandegān\") is a graveyard belonging to classical and contemporary poets, mystics and other notable people, located in the Surkhab district of Tabriz in Iran. It was built by Tahmaseb Dolatshahi in the mid-1970s while he was the Secretary of Arts and Cultures of East Azarbaijan.\n\nOn the east side of Sayyed Hamzeh's grave and Ghaem Magham's grave, there is a graveyard containing the graves of important poets, mystics, scientists and well-known people of Tabriz. The Mausoleum was first mentioned by the medieval historian Hamdollah Mostowfi in his \"Nozhat ol-Gholub\". Hamdollah mentions it being located in what, at the time, was the Surkhab district of Tabriz. \n\nSince the 1970s, there have been attempts to renovate the graveyard area. Some work has been carried out like the construction of a new symbolic building on this site.\n\nThe first poet buried in this complex is Asadi Tusi (999-1072).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58838310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58838310", "title": "Maruja Callaved", "text": "Maruja Callaved\n\nMaruja Callaved (1928 – 9 January 2018) was a Spanish television director.\n\nAfter settling in Zaragoza, Maruja Callaved studied Philosophy and Literature and graduated in Teaching.\n\nHer professional beginnings were in radio, first at the University of Zaragoza and later at La Voz de Madrid, although she developed almost all of her professional career at Televisión Española, first as a presenter and later as a director.\n\nShe started as an announcer on \"\". Subsequently, she was on \"Panorama de actualidad\", with began her association with news services. In the mid-1960s she presented \"Telediario\". In 1963 she received the for her work in television.\n\nCallaved's popularity increased with ' (1967), a predecessor of other cooking programs that would triumph decades later, such as Elena Santonja's ' and \"\". A year later she presented \"Nivel de Vida\", together with Blanca Álvarez.\n\nIn the 1970s she got behind the camera and went on to direct, finding success with programs like \"Aquí y Ahora\" (1975) with José Luis Uribarri, and \"\" (1976–1981), a famous talk show that earned her the 1977 Ondas Award, and that launched the careers of presenters and Mari Cruz Soriano.\n\nIn 2017, Callaved received a heartfelt tribute in Huesca, at the 1st Product and Gastronomy Congress of the Pyrenees. This was one of her last public appearances, at which she emotionally pointed out, \"It is important for me and, from now on, in all the moments of my life. And what's more to do it in Huesca, that is my land and that allows me to speak with heart in hand.\"\n"}
{"id": "8630839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8630839", "title": "Minnesota Fringe Festival", "text": "Minnesota Fringe Festival\n\nThe Minnesota Fringe Festival is a performing arts festival held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, every summer, usually during the first two weeks in August. The eleven-day event, which features performing artists of many genres and disciplines, is one of many Fringe Festivals in North America. Minnesota Fringe is the largest nonjuried festival in the United States and the third-largest Fringe festival in North America. In 2013, Minnesota Fringe ran August 1–11 and featured 176 shows with a total of 895 performances in multiple venues around the city and distributed 50,007 tickets over the eleven-day event. In 2007, attendance and box office revenue were adversely affected by the collapse of the I-35W bridge the day before the festival opened.\n\nFringe shows are 60 minutes or less and appear in an official venue supplied by the festival for five performances stretched out over the festival's eleven days. Venues vary widely, with capacities ranging from 55 to over 400, and available configurations include black-box, proscenium, thrust or arena stages. Past venues include Minneapolis Theatre Garage, HUGE Improv Theater, Mixed Blood Theatre mainstage, Theatre de la Jeune Lune's side stage and the four stages at the University of Minnesota's Rarig Center. Normally, eleven shows will share a venue.\n\nPerforming companies that participate in the Fringe split a share of the ticket revenues with the festival and pay an application fee. Currently, the artists' share is 65 percent of the box office revenue.\n\nThe 2017 festival, which runs August 3-13, marks the 24th annual festival, the first under the leadership of executive director Dawn Bentley, who assumed this position on April 3, 2017, after former executive director Jeff D. Larson stepped down in October 2016.\n\nMinnesota Fringe Festival is a founding member of United States Association of Fringe Festivals (USAFF).\n\nThe Minnesota Fringe Festival was created as part of a trend of fringe festival establishments in the United States. The country's first fringe was the Seattle Fringe Festival, founded in 1991, followed by the Orlando International Fringe Theater Festival and the San Francisco Fringe Festival in 1992 and 1993, respectively. Founded by Bob McFadden and operating with a budget of around $35,000, the Minnesota Fringe Festival first ran from June 23–July 2, 1994, in several theaters around the West Bank neighborhood of Minneapolis. In spite of the festival's name, the Minnesota Fringe did not serve as the fringe festival to any larger, more mainstream theater event. The first annual Fringe was described by Mark Pizzato as \"quickly organized and underpublicized\", with low attendance reported at its 53 shows, each of which cost six dollars or less and ran under 90 minutes. It drew 4,600 theatergoers and featured shows from companies hailing from three continents (North America, Asia, and Europe).\n\nThe festival's growth was modest in its first several years. In 1997, following the previous year's festival which had seen the lowest attendance of any Fringe to date, the event moved to the Loring Park neighborhood. That year marked an attendance of 4,300, after which point Dean Seal replaced McFadden as the festival's executive director. In 1998, the festival began offering patrons multi-show passes and attendance increased to 6,573. The following year, the festival's attendance more than doubled, owing, according to Fringe officials, to better marketing and the 68 shows at that years festival, an increase from previous years. In 2000, the Fringe won a $10,000 grant from the McKnight Foundation and once more expanded, to 80 shows. Festival operations, with a working budget of $260,000, were run out of an office space above the Acadia Cabaret Cafe in Minneapolis, and the festival had begun attracting a variety of sponsors. While in its earlier years, acts had been selected by invitation, by the new millennium the festival was operating on an unjuried first-come, first-served model. The 2001 festival marked the first year that Fringe organizers had to turn away applicants, with the number of shows capped at 120. The festival had also expanded into screening films and showcasing visual art as part of the Visual Fringe.\n\nSeal, the only full-time Fringe employee, resigned as the festival's executive director in 2001 and was replaced by Leah Cooper, who had for the previous three years served as president of the organization's board. Early in her tenure, Cooper hired a full-time volunteer coordinator, a director for Visual Fringe, and a part-time office manager. The 2002 festival was the first in a number of years to employ venues outside of Loring Park, expanding the festival's footprint to the Uptown district. By this point, the Minnesota Fringe was the United States's largest fringe festival. In the following years, the festival's most popular shows saw increased attendance, including record numbers of sold-out houses, as well as reprises and remounts at other venues, while mean attendance decreased, indicating decreased attendance at smaller shows. Cooper in 2004 announced plans to exit the Fringe after the 2005 festival, but stayed on an additional year to help solve fundraising issues that arose. In 2006, the festival began using venues in the West Bank neighborhood again.\n\nRobin Gillette replaced Cooper as executive director for the 2007 festival. On August 1 of that year, the I-35W Mississippi River bridge collapsed. That year's iteration of the festival was scheduled to begin the next day and the bridge would have connected patrons to neighborhoods in which performances were to take place. As a result of the bridge's collapse, attendance to the festival was 17% lower than the year before, the lowest since 2002. The 2008 festival saw an increase in the number of dance shows presented as well as a partial recovery in the number of tickets sold and by 2009, the festival set an all-time attendance record of more than 46,000.\n\nJeff Larson, who first worked administratively with the Fringe as its technical director, then associate director, became executive director in 2013. He left the position in 2016.\n\nMinnesota Fringe Festival is nonjuried; that is, the performers and shows are not vetted by a panel of judges ahead of time. Companies that wish to perform submit applications and are drawn by lottery, a practice that replaced the festival's former method of \"first come, first served\" in 2004.\n\nThe festival is open to all performing artists. Show genres typically include comedy (scripted and improv), drama, dance (classical, modern and ethnic), puppetry, musical theater, opera and shows for/by children and teens. Minnesota Fringe, like many fringe festivals, has proven to be an excellent launching point for new work.\n\nEach venue is wheelchair-accessible and the festival offers ASL-interpreted shows for the deaf and hard-of-hearing, as well as audio-described shows for the blind.\n\nIn the past, Minnesota Fringe has provided an option for companies to produce site-specific work outside the official venues. The Bring Your Own Venue (BYOV) option was only available for shows that could not normally fit into a traditional theater space. Past BYOV shows have been staged in places such as a clothing store dressing area, a swimming pool, an art gallery and a coffee shop. In 2006, 23 shows, a record number, performed in BYOV slots.\n\nThe Minnesota Fringe Festival Website operates year-round. All of the shows in the yearly festival are up for review by any audience member who registers on the site. Shows are rated on a scale of 0 to 5 stars along with a written review. Each show is assigned an overall star rating based on the average of all the reviews received. Minnesota Fringe also retains a staff of photographers who attend shows and return photographs for the festival's daily slide show. During the six-week 2013 festival period, the site received over a million pageviews.\n\nShows\n2014: 169\n2013: 176\n2012: 163\n2011: 167\n2010: 169\n2009: 162\n2008: 156\n\nPerformances\n2014: 878\n2013: 895\n2012: 829\n2011: 865\n2010: 876\n2009: 843\n2008: 808\n\nTicket Sales\n2014: 50,265\n2013: 50,007\n2012: 46,284\n2011: 48,432\n2010: 50,256\n2009: 46,217\n2008: 40,926\n\nTotal Artist Payout\n2014: $258,738\n2013: $245,223\n2012: $230,997\n2011: $243,792\n2010: $249,116\n2009: $215,600\n2008: $193,293\n\n"}
{"id": "3418464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3418464", "title": "More popular than Jesus", "text": "More popular than Jesus\n\n\"More popular than Jesus\" was part of a longer remark made by the Beatles' John Lennon during a 1966 interview, in which he argued that Christianity would end, possibly before rock music. His opinions drew no controversy when originally published in the United Kingdom, but angry reactions flared up in Christian communities when the comment was republished in the United States five months later. The full quotation was: \n\nThe statement originates from an interview conducted by journalist Maureen Cleave, who included it in a March 1966 article for the London newspaper the \"Evening Standard\", which drew no public reaction at the time. When \"Datebook\", a US teen magazine, quoted Lennon's comments five months later in August, extensive protests broke out in the United States, particularly throughout the Bible Belt. Some radio stations stopped playing Beatles songs, their records were publicly burned, press conferences were cancelled, and threats were made. The controversy coincided with the group's US tour in August 1966, and Lennon and Brian Epstein attempted to quell the dispute at a series of press conferences. Some tour events experienced disruption and intimidation, including a picketing by the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nShortly after the controversy broke, Lennon reluctantly apologised for the comment, saying \"if I had said television was more popular than Jesus, I might have got away with it\". He stressed that he was simply remarking on how other people viewed and popularised the band. The events contributed to the Beatles' lack of interest in public live performances, and the US tour was the last they undertook, after which they became a studio-only band.\n\nIn March 1966, London's \"Evening Standard\" ran a weekly series of articles titled \"How Does a Beatle Live?\" that featured, in chronological order, John Lennon, Ringo Starr, George Harrison and Paul McCartney. The articles were written by journalist Maureen Cleave, who knew the group well and had interviewed them regularly since the start of Beatlemania in the UK. Three years previously she had described them as \"the darlings of Merseyside\", and had accompanied them on the plane on the group's first US tour in February 1964. For her lifestyle series in March 1966, she chose to interview the group individually, rather than all together, as was the norm.\nCleave interviewed Lennon on 4 March 1966. At his home, Kenwood, in Weybridge, she found a full-size crucifix, a gorilla costume, a medieval suit of armour and a well-organised library, with works by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Jonathan Swift, Oscar Wilde, George Orwell, Aldous Huxley, and \"The Passover Plot\" by Hugh J. Schonfield, which had influenced Lennon's ideas about Christianity. Cleave's article mentioned that Lennon was \"reading extensively about religion\", and quoted a comment he made:\n\nCleave's interview with Lennon was published in the \"Evening Standard\" in March 1966 and provoked no public reaction in the UK. Church attendance there was in decline and the Christian churches were making no secret of the need to transform their image into something more relevant to modern times. Music historian Jonathan Gould wrote, \"The satire comedians had had a field day with the increasingly desperate attempts of the Church to make itself seem more relevant ('Don't call me vicar, call me \"Dick\" ...').\" In 1963, the Anglican Bishop of Woolwich, John A.T. Robinson, published a controversial but popular book, \"Honest to God\", urging the nation to reject traditional church teachings on morality and the concept of God as an \"old man in the sky\", and instead embrace a universal ethic of love. Bryan R. Wilson's 1966 text \"Religion in Secular Society\" explained that increasing secularisation led to British churches being abandoned. However, in the US, churches remained popular.\n\nBoth McCartney and Harrison had been baptised in the Roman Catholic Church, but neither of them followed Christianity. At the start of Beatlemania, the group came into contact with the Revd Ronald Gibbons, who told reporters that a Beatles version of \"O Come, All Ye Faithful\" might provide the Church of England with \"the very shot in the arm it needs\".\n\nThe day after Cleave's article appeared in the \"Evening Standard\", Beatles press officer Tony Barrow offered \"Datebook\", a US teen magazine, rights to all four interviews. Barrow believed the pieces were important to show fans that the Beatles were progressing beyond simple pop music and producing more intellectually challenging work. As \"Datebook\" was a socially progressive magazine that addressed subjects such as interracial dating and legalisation of marijuana, it seemed like a suitable vehicle to carry this information.\n\nLennon's quote was featured in a 3 July article in \"The New York Times Magazine\" and provoked no reaction. In late July, when \"Datebook\" republished the interviews, editor Art Unger put Lennon's quote \"I don't know which will go first – rock 'n' roll or Christianity!\" on the cover. Also on the cover was a quote from Paul McCartney regarding America: \"It's a lousy country where anyone black is a dirty nigger!\" In Birmingham, Alabama, WAQY DJ Tommy Charles heard about Lennon's remarks from his coworker Doug Layton, and was immediately incensed, saying, \"That does it for me. I am not going to play the Beatles any more\". Charles and Layton asked for listeners' views on Lennon's comment and the response was overwhelmingly negative. Charles later stated, \"We just felt it was so absurd and sacrilegious that something ought to be done to show them that they can't get away with this sort of thing\". Al Benn, who was the bureau manager for United Press International News, heard the WAQY show and immediately filed a news report in New York City, culminating in a major news story in \"The New York Times\" on 5 August. Over twenty other stations followed WAQY's lead with similar announcements. Some stations in the Deep South went further, organising demonstrations with bonfires, drawing hordes of teenagers to publicly burn their Beatles records and other memorabilia.\n\nEpstein was so concerned by the reaction that he considered cancelling the group's upcoming US tour, believing they would be seriously harmed in some way. He then flew to the US and held a press conference in New York City, where he publicly criticised \"Datebook\", saying the magazine had taken Lennon's words out of context, and expressed regret on behalf of the group that \"people with certain religious beliefs should have been offended in any way\". Epstein's efforts had little effect, as the controversy quickly spread beyond the borders of the US. In Mexico City there were demonstrations against the group, and a number of countries, including South Africa and Spain, made the decision to ban the Beatles' music on national radio stations. The Vatican issued a public denouncement of Lennon's comments.\n\nThe Beatles left for their US tour on 11 August 1966. According to Lennon's wife, Cynthia, he was nervous and upset that he had made people angry simply by expressing his opinion. The Beatles attended a press conference in Chicago, Illinois; Lennon did not want to apologise but was advised by Epstein and Barrow that he should. Lennon said that \"if I had said television was more popular than Jesus, I might have got away with it\" but stressed that he was simply remarking on how other people viewed and popularised the band. He described his own belief in God by quoting the Bishop of Woolwich, saying, \"not as an old man in the sky. I believe that what people call God is something in all of us.\" Adamant that he was not comparing himself with Christ, he tried to explain the decline of Christianity in the UK. Pressed for an apology by a reporter, he said: \"if you want me to apologise, if that will make you happy, then OK, I'm sorry.\" Journalists gave a sympathetic response, and told Lennon that the Bible Belt were \"quite notorious for their Christian attitude\".\n\nWhen the tour began, it was marred by protests and disturbances. Telephone threats were received, and concerts were picketed by the Ku Klux Klan. \"Daily Express\" writer Robert Pitman, responding to the US outcry, wrote, \"It seems a nerve for Americans to hold up shocked hands, when week in, week out, America is exporting to us a subculture that makes the Beatles seem like four stern old churchwardens.\" The reaction was also criticised in the US; a Kentucky radio station announced that it would give the Beatles' music airplay to show its \"contempt for hypocrisy personified\", and the Jesuit magazine \"America\" wrote: \"Lennon was simply stating what many a Christian educator would readily admit\".\n\nThe Memphis city council, aware that a Beatles concert was scheduled at the Mid-South Coliseum during the tour, voted to cancel it rather than have \"municipal facilities be used as a forum to ridicule anyone's religion\", and also saying, \"the Beatles are not welcome in Memphis\". The Ku Klux Klan nailed a Beatles album to a wooden cross, vowing \"vengeance\", with conservative groups staging further public burnings of Beatles records. The Reverend Jimmy Stroad stated that a Christian rally in Memphis \"would give the youth of the mid-South an opportunity to show Jesus Christ is more popular than the Beatles\". The Memphis shows did take place, on 19 August; the afternoon show went as planned, but there was a minor panic when a firecracker was set off on stage during the evening performance, which led the group to believe they were the target of gunfire.\n\nThe Beatles hated the tour, partly due to the controversy and adverse reaction from Lennon's comments, and were unhappy about Epstein continuing to organise live performances that were increasingly at odds with their studio work. The controversy had also overshadowed the US release of their 1966 album \"Revolver\", which the band considered to be their best and most mature musical statement up to that point. Following the tour, Harrison seriously contemplated leaving the group, but was persuaded to stay on the condition that the Beatles would from now on focus solely on their work as recording artists. After a break, they reconvened in November 1966 to begin recording \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", which was a major critical and commercial success when released in June 1967. \n\nLennon was asked about the controversy during a trip to Canada in 1969. He repeated his opinion that the Beatles were more influential on young people than Christ, adding that some ministers had agreed with him. He called the protestors in the US \"fascist Christians\", saying he was \"very big on Christ. I've always fancied him. He was right.\" In 1978, he thanked Jesus for an end to the Beatles' touring, saying \"if I hadn't said [that] and upset the very Christian Ku Klux Klan, well, Lord, I might still be up there with all the other performing fleas! God bless America. Thank you, Jesus.\"\n\nIn 1993, Michael Medved wrote in \"The Sunday Times\" that \"today, comments like Lennon's could never cause controversy; a contemptuous attitude to religion is all but expected from all mainstream pop performers.\" In 1997, Noel Gallagher claimed that his band Oasis was \"bigger than God\", but reaction was minimal.\n\nIn a 2008 article marking the 40th anniversary of the Beatles' double album \"The Beatles\" (also known as the \"White Album\"), the Vatican newspaper, \"L'Osservatore Romano\", issued the statement:\n\nIn response to the statement, Starr said \"Didn't the Vatican say we were possibly Satanic, and they've still forgiven us? I think the Vatican's got more to talk about than the Beatles.\" In its 14 April 2010 edition, \"L'Osservatore Romano\" responded to Starr's comments, stating that \"John Lennon had no need of forgiveness from the Vatican, \"L'Osservatore Romano\" reprinted its 1966 article on John Lennon's comments. The 1966 \"L'Osservatore Romano\" article noted that Lennon had apologised for his comments and that fellow Beatle Paul McCartney had criticized them.\" In 2010, Starr said that he had now found religion, adding, \"For me, God is in my life ... I think the search has been on since the 1960s.\"\n\nIn 2012, the \"Houston Press\" music blog compared several aspects of popular media and concluded that Jesus is more popular than the Beatles. In 2015, \"The Philippine Star\" said that almost half a century later, Lennon's statement proved half-wrong, reporting that \"rock 'n roll is dead but Christianity expanded with Catholicism experiencing exceptional growth through Pope Francis' lead\".\n\nOn 18 May 1968, Lennon summoned the other Beatles to a meeting at Apple Corps to announce that he was the living reincarnation of Jesus: \"I have something very important to tell you all. I am Jesus Christ. I'm back again.\" The meeting was adjourned for lunch and Lennon never mentioned the subject again. In May 1969, Lennon and McCartney recorded \"The Ballad of John and Yoko\", with Lennon singing the lines, \"Christ, you know it ain't easy, You know how hard it can be, The way things are going, They're gonna crucify me.\" In a BBC interview a few months later, Lennon called himself \"One of Christ's biggest fans\", talked about the Church of England, his vision of heaven, and unhappiness over being unable to marry Yoko Ono in church.\n\nOn 3 December 1969, Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice asked Lennon to play the part of Jesus in the stage production of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", which he declined, although he said he would have been interested if Ono could play the part of Mary Magdalene. Lennon mentioned Jesus again in his 1970 song \"God\", singing, \"I don't believe in Jesus\", but also sang that he did not believe in the Bible, Buddha, the \"Gita\", and the Beatles. Critics of Lennon's lyrics have also focused on the line \"Imagine there's no heaven\" from his 1971 song \"Imagine\".\n\nLennon was murdered on 8 December 1980 by Mark David Chapman, who had become a born-again Christian in 1970 and was incensed by Lennon's \"more popular than Jesus\" remark, calling it blasphemy. He later stated that he was further enraged by the songs \"God\" and \"Imagine\", even singing the latter with the altered lyric: \"Imagine John Lennon dead\".\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "54328336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54328336", "title": "Nadhim Ramzi", "text": "Nadhim Ramzi\n\nNadhim Ramzi (; 14 July 1928 – 18 September 2013 from a Kurdish family) was an Iraqi graphic designer, calligrapher, photographer, and painter best known for documenting life in Iraq from the 1950s by photography.\n\nNadhim Ramzi was born in Baghdad into a family of Kurdish background. In his youth, Ramzi began to recognize the beauty of his natural environment and the local people in various parts of Iraq due to his father's constant movement. His father was administrative staff member during 1934–1944; Ramzi liked birds hunting and learned to draw them. He also loved the wilderness and the native people. Ramzi started to get involved and participate in a lot of hobbies that affected his future.\n\nIn Al-Yusufiyah he started practicing Islamic geometric patterns and became obsessed with it, and in Khan Bani Saad he found happiness in the life of the countryside and grazing sheep: \"It was to this small village a great impact on my lifestyle and behavior. He watched artisans making carpets and ceramics, which aroused his interest in traditional design. He taught himself to paint at a very young age. \n\nAnd in Al-Mahawil District he got in touch with the ancient hills and ruins of the Babylonian civilization, amazed and inspired by Art of Mesopotamia that has survived for decades.\n\nRamzi started photography as a hobby at the age of 16, when he received his first camera as a gift. \"\n\nIn an interview, Ramzi's good friend, Rifat Chidirji, described the photographer's approach:\n\nRamzi's traveled to Paris in 1964 where he stayed for two years and was introduced to printing methods and its techniques, He founded a printing company in Baghdad and named it after his name, It was one of the best printing companies in Iraq, it was located near Al Rasheed Camp's main road. The company was established in 70s and founded by Ramzi himself. It offered a variety of printing products and services with a focus on quality, and service.\n\nIt contained three main departments:\n\n\n\nRamzi published a number of books, mostly consisting of his photographs, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "569143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=569143", "title": "Oliver St. John Gogarty", "text": "Oliver St. John Gogarty\n\nOliver Joseph St John Gogarty (17 August 1878 – 22 September 1957) was an Irish poet, author, otolaryngologist, athlete, politician, and well-known conversationalist. He served as the inspiration for Buck Mulligan in James Joyce's novel \"Ulysses\".\n\nGogarty was born 17 August 1878 in Rutland Square, Dublin, the eldest child of Henry Gogarty, a well-to-do Dublin physician, and Margaret Gogarty (née Oliver), the daughter of a Galway mill owner. Three siblings (Henry, Mary, and Richard) were born later. Gogarty's father, himself the son of a medical doctor, had been educated at Trinity College and owned two fashionable homes in Dublin, which set the Gogartys apart from other Irish Catholic families at that time and allowed them access to the same social circles as the Protestant Ascendancy.\n\nIn 1887 Gogarty's father died of a burst appendix, and Gogarty was sent to Mungret College, a boarding school near Limerick. He was unhappy in his new school, and the following year he transferred to Stonyhurst College in Lancashire, England, which he liked little better, later referring to it as \"a religious jail\".\n\nGogarty returned to Ireland in 1896 and boarded at Clongowes Wood College while studying for examinations with the Royal University of Ireland. He was a talented athlete; in England he had briefly played for the Preston North End FC Reserve, and while at Clongowes he played for the Bohemian FC. He also played on Clongowes's soccer and cricket elevens. His extracurricular interests, which also included cycling and drinking, prevented him from being an attentive student, and in 1898 he switched to the medical school at Trinity College, having failed eight of his ten examinations at the Royal.\n\nAs one of Dublin's \"medicos\", Gogarty was known to be fond of public pranks and midnight carousing in \"the Kips\", Dublin's red-light district. He had a talent for humorous and bawdy verse, which quickly made the rounds through the city, and sometimes composed mnemonic lyrics to aid his medical studies. He also enjoyed a highly successful cycling career before being banned from the tracks in 1901 for bad language, and between 1898 and 1901 he rescued at least four people from drowning. He became interested in Irish nationalism after meeting Arthur Griffith in 1899, and contributed propaganda pieces to \"The United Irishman\" over subsequent years.\n\nA serious interest in poetry and literature also began to manifest itself during his years at Trinity. His witty conversation made him a favourite with the dons, particularly John Pentland Mahaffy (formerly the tutor of Oscar Wilde) and Robert Yelverton Tyrrell, and between 1901 and 1903 he won three successive Vice-Chancellor's prizes for verse. In 1900 he made the acquaintance of W. B. Yeats (of whom his mother highly approved) and of George Moore (of whom she did not) and began to frequent Dublin literary circles. He also formed close friendships with other up-and-coming young poets, such as Seamus O'Sullivan and James Joyce. In 1904 he spent two terms at Oxford to compete for the Newdigate Prize, but lost to G.K.A. Bell, the future Bishop of Chichester, who became a friend and frequent correspondent over the next few years.\n\nUpon returning to Dublin in the summer of 1904, Gogarty made arrangements to rent the famous Martello Tower in Sandycove. The primary goal of this scheme, as described by Gogarty in a letter to G.K.A. Bell, was to \"house the Bard\" (i.e. James Joyce), who was without money and required \"a year in which to finish his novel.\" The two friends quarrelled in August, however, and Joyce either failed to move in or left shortly after doing so. Joyce briefly took up residence in the Tower the following month, together with Gogarty and his Oxford friend Samuel Chenevix Trench (a setup which later provided inspiration for the opening chapter of \"Ulysses)\" but left again suddenly after only six days. Forty years later in America, Gogarty would attribute Joyce's abrupt departure to his and S.C. Trench's midnight antics with a loaded revolver. Joyce and Gogarty corresponded intermittently during the early years of Joyce's continental exile and occasionally planned meetings, but contemporaneous letters from Joyce to his brother reveal deep distrust of Gogarty's motives, and their friendship was never fully renewed. Gogarty made use of the Martello Tower during the following year as a writing retreat and party venue, and officially held the lease until 1925.\n\nIn 1904 and 1905 Gogarty published several short poems in the London publication \"The Venture\" and in John Eglinton's journal \"Dana\". His name also appeared in print as the renegade priest Fr. Oliver Gogarty in George Moore's 1905 novel \"The Lake\", an occurrence which upset Gogarty's devout mother. In 1905 Gogarty became one of the founding members of Arthur Griffith's Sinn Féin, a non-violent political movement with a plan for Irish autonomy modelled after the Austro-Hungarian dual monarchy.\n\nIn August 1906, Gogarty married Martha Duane, a girl from a landowning Connemara family. Eager to establish himself with a profession, he passed his final medical examinations in June 1907, several months after the death of his mother. In July 1907 his first son, Oliver Duane Odysseus Gogarty (known as \"Noll\") was born, and in autumn of that year Gogarty left for Vienna to finish the practical phase of his medical training. Owing in part to the influence of his mentor, Sir Robert Woods, Gogarty had decided to specialise in otolaryngology, and in Vienna he studied under Ottokar Chiari, Markus Hajek, and Robert Bárány.\n\nReturning to Dublin in 1908, Gogarty secured a post at Richmond Hospital, and shortly afterwards purchased a house in Ely Place opposite George Moore. Three years later, he joined the staff of the Meath Hospital and remained there for the remainder of his medical career. He became known for flamboyant theatrics in the operating room, including off-the-cuff witticisms and the flinging of recently removed larynxes at the viewing gallery. He also maintained ENT consulting rooms in Ely Place, attracting a number of wealthy clients and attending to less well-off patients for free.\n\nGogarty and his wife went on to have two more children, Dermot (born 1908) and Brenda (born 1911), and in 1917 Gogarty purchased Renyvle House, a large country house in Renvyle, Connemara. He became a keen motorist during this time, purchasing a succession of cars that culminated with a buttercup-coloured Rolls Royce. During the following decade he was also interested in aviation, earning a pilot's licence and helping to found the Irish Aero Club.\n\nAs a Sinn Féiner during the Irish War of Independence, Gogarty participated in a variety of anti-Black and Tan schemes, allowing his home to be used as a safe house and transporting disguised IRA volunteers in his car. Following the ratification of the Anglo-Irish Treaty, Gogarty sided with the pro-Treaty government (headed by his close friend Arthur Griffith) and was made a Free State Senator. When Griffith fell ill during the summer of 1922, Gogarty frequently attended his bedside. His death on 12 August 1922 had a profound effect on Gogarty; W.T. Cosgrave later observed that \"he was almost mortally wounded when Griffith died, he was so very, very much attached to him.\" Gogarty carried out Griffith's official autopsy and embalmment, and went on to perform the same offices for Michael Collins, another close friend whom Gogarty had often sheltered in his Ely Place home prior to his assassination. It was rumoured that Griffith had been planning to make Gogarty the new Governor-General of the Irish Free State, but in his absence the post went to Tim Healy.\n\nIn November 1922, anti-Treaty IRA commander Liam Lynch issued a general order to his forces to shoot Free State Senators. Two months later, Gogarty was kidnapped by a group of anti-Treaty militants, who lured him out of his house and into a waiting car under the pretext of bringing him to visit a sick patient. Gogarty was subsequently driven to an empty house near Chapelizod and held under armed guard. Aware that he might be in imminent danger of execution, Gogarty contrived to have himself led out into the garden (purportedly by claiming to be suffering from diarrhoea), where he broke free from his captors and flung himself into the Liffey; he then swam to shore and delivered himself to the protection of the police barracks in Phoenix Park. In February of that same year, Renvyle was burnt to the ground by anti-Treaty forces. Following these incidents, Gogarty relocated his family and practice to London, where he resided until February 1924. Upon returning to Ireland, he famously released two swans into the River Liffey in gratitude for his life.\n\nGogarty remained a senator until the abolition of the Seanad in 1936, during which time he identified with none of the existing political parties and voted according to his own whims. He believed that Ireland should retain its dominion status in the British Commonwealth so as to \"keep with nations who understand that the first principle of freedom is a freedom that does not permit interference with the personal liberties of the citizen.\" He supported rural electrification schemes, road improvement, reforestation and conservation, prevention of livestock cruelty, and educational reform. His views on controversial issues such as censorship and birth control were ambiguous; after expressing initial support for the Censorship Bill, he eventually went on to denounce it in scathing terms (\"I think it is high time the men of this country found some other way of loving God than by hating women\"), and while generally professing to oppose the sale of prophylactics, he voiced support for their usage in certain cases. He was most passionate on the subject of sanitation in schools and in urban and rural housing, about which he spoke frequently. His speeches frequently contained puns, wordplays, and extended poetic quotations, and were sometimes given in favour of facetious schemes, such as his attempt to have the phoenix statue in Phoenix Park included in the 1929 Wild Birds Protection Bill. He was notoriously scornful of the government's attempts to reinstate the Irish language (which he referred to as \"Woolworth's Irish\"), proposing that funding be used instead for housing and school health services, and remained perpetually suspicious of Éamon de Valera, against whose economic policies, character, and personal appearance he often hurled invectives during Seanad proceedings. De Valera eventually dissolved the Seanad when it persisted in obstructing Government proposals, effectively ending Gogarty's political career.\n\nGogarty maintained close friendships with W. B. Yeats, AE, George Moore, Lord Dunsany, James Stephens, Seamus O'Sullivan, and other Dublin literati, and continued to write poetry in the midst of his political and professional duties. Three small books of poetry (\"Hyperthuleana\", \"Secret Springs of Dublin Song\", and \"The Ship and Other Poems\") were published between 1916 and 1918. Gogarty also tried his hand at playwriting, producing a slum drama (\"Blight\") in 1917 under the pseudonym \"Alpha and Omega\", and two comedies (\"A Serious Thing\" and \"The Enchanted Trousers\") in 1919 under the pseudonym \"Gideon Ouseley\", all three of which were performed at the Abbey Theatre.\n\nGogarty devoted less energy to his medical practice and more to his writing during the twenties and thirties. His 1924 book of poetry \"An Offering of Swans\" won the Gold Medal for poetry at the revived Tailteann Games, for which he also wrote the 1924 Olympic bronze medal-winning \"Tailteann Ode\" (which he was later to describe as \"rather tripe\"). In 1929 another book of verse, \"Wild Apples\", was published, and was followed in 1933 by \"Selected Poems\". Gogarty was also a member of Yeats's Irish Academy of Letters and frequently assisted in arranging its social functions. 1936 saw the publication of Yeats's \"Oxford Book of Modern Verse\", which contained seventeen of Gogarty's poems and an introduction proclaiming him \"one of the great lyric poets of our age.\" The over-representation given to Gogarty outraged many poets and perplexed Gogarty himself, who remarked, \"What right have I to figure so bulkily? None from a poetical point of view... Sappho herself could not have made a more subjective anthology.\"\n\nIn 1935 Gogarty published his first prose work, \"As I Was Going Down Sackville Street\" (subtitled \"A Phantasy in Fact\"), a semi-fictional novel-memoir that tells, in reverse chronological order, the story of Gogarty's Dublin through a series of interconnected anecdotes and lively characters sketches. Shortly after its publication, it became the subject of a lawsuit by a Jewish art dealer, Harry Sinclair, who claimed that he and his recently deceased twin brother, William Sinclair, had been libeled by the publication. The two men did not appear as named characters in the book, but some derogatory lines of verse beginning \"Two Jews grew in Sackville Street\", written by Gogarty's friend George Redding and included in a scene in the novel, were widely known to refer to the Sinclair siblings. Harry Sinclair further recognised a reference to his grandfather, described in the text as one who \"enticed little girls into his office\", an offence of which his grandfather had in fact been convicted. Gogarty responded to the charges by claiming that the unnamed Jews were parodies or composite characters rather than deliberate evocations of living persons. The case attracted a great deal of public attention, with one commentator observing that \"only \"The Pickwick Papers\", rewritten by James Joyce, could really capture the mood of this trial.\" Among the witnesses for the prosecution was William Sinclair's nephew-by-marriage, Samuel Beckett, then a little-known writer, who was humiliatingly denounced as a \"bawd and blasphemer\" by Gogarty's counsel. Gogarty ultimately lost the lawsuit and was ordered to pay £900 in damages, plus court costs. This outcome deeply embittered Gogarty, who had already suffered financial setbacks after the stock market crash of 1929 and felt that the verdict had been politically motivated.\n\nIn spite of the \"Sackville Street\" imbroglio, Gogarty's output over the next two years was prolific. In 1938 he published \"I Follow St. Patrick\", a historical and geographic portrait of Ireland as told through Gogarty's rambling visits to various sites traditionally associated with St. Patrick; in 1939 he published \"Tumbling in the Hay\", a semi-autobiographical comic novel about medical students in turn-of-the-century Dublin, and \"Elbow Room\", another collection of poetry. In 1938 he relocated to London for a second time and brought forth his own libel suit against the young poet Patrick Kavanagh, whose autobiography \"The Green Fool\" said of Kavanagh's first visit to Gogarty's home: \"I mistook Gogarty's white-robed maid for his wife or his mistress; I expected every poet to have a spare wife.\" Gogarty, who had taken offence at the close coupling of the words \"wife\" and \"mistress\", was awarded £100 in damages.\n\nWith the onset of World War II, Gogarty, who was an enthusiastic and talented amateur aviator, attempted to enlist in the RAF and the RAMC as a doctor. He was denied on grounds of age. He then departed in September 1939 for an extended lecture tour in the United States, leaving his wife to manage Renvyle House, which had since been rebuilt as a hotel. When his return to Ireland was delayed by the war, Gogarty applied for American citizenship, and eventually decided to reside permanently in the United States. Though he regularly sent letters, funds, and care-packages to his family and returned home for occasional holiday visits, he never again lived in Ireland for any extended length of time. His primary American residence was in New York, where he was known to frequent bars on Third Avenue. He also spent time in Vermont and in Wyckoff, New Jersey.\n\nFeeling that he was too old to sit for the medical examinations that would have qualified him as a practitioner in the United States, Gogarty instead chose to support himself entirely by his writing. In addition to various essays and short stories, his prose output included \"Going Native\", a satire on English social mores, \"Mad Grandeur\" and \"Mr. Petunia\", two period narratives composed with an eye to having them optioned as Hollywood films, and \"Rolling Down the Lea\" and \"It Isn't This Time of Year at All!\", two loosely constructed memoirs. He also published two books of poems, \"Perennial\" and \"Unselected Poems\"; a collection of bawdy verse, \"The Merry Muses of Hibernia\", was planned but never completed. Gogarty's literary output during the forties and fifties is generally considered to be inferior to his earlier writings.\n\nGogarty suffered from heart complaints during the last few years of his life, and in September 1957 he collapsed in the street on his way to dinner. He died on 22 September 1957; his body was flown home to Ireland and buried in Cartron Church, Moyard, near Renvyle.\n\nA highly visible and distinctive Dublin character during his lifetime, Gogarty appears in a number of memoirs penned by his contemporaries, notably George Moore's \"Hail and Farewell\", where he goes both by his own name and by the pseudonym \"Conan.\" His most famous literary incarnation, however, is as Buck Mulligan, the irrepressible roommate of Stephen Dedalus in James Joyce's \"Ulysses\". Mulligan quotes a number of songs and poems known to have been written by Gogarty, the most famous of which, \"The Song of the Cheerful (But Slightly Sarcastic) Jesus\", was originally sent to Joyce as a belated Christmas peace offering after their quarrels of 1904. Other details, such as Mulligan's Hellenism, his status as a medical student, his history of saving men from drowning, his friendship with George Moore, and the metrical arrangement of his full name (Malachi Roland St. John Mulligan) parallel Gogarty's biography. Due to his influence on Joyce (he is also sometimes cited as an inspiration for \"Dubliners\" character Ignatius Gallaher and \"Exiles\" antagonist Robert Hand), Gogarty's name often comes up in Joyce scholarship, though Gogarty's own editors and biographers have complained that these references are frequently inaccurate, owing to Gogarty-related errata in Richard Ellmann's \"James Joyce\" and a tendency to conflate the real-life Gogarty with the fictional character of Buck Mulligan.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the speaker of W. B. Yeats's poem \"High Talk\", \"Malachi Stilt-Jack\", is intended to be a representation of Gogarty.\n\nA pub in the Temple Bar district of Dublin is named after him, and an annual Oliver St. John Gogarty Literary Festival is held in the author's family home, now the Renvyle House Hotel in Connemara. A surgical ward in the descendant hospital of his workplace, the AMNCH, now also bears his name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6556867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6556867", "title": "Outline of photography", "text": "Outline of photography\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to photography:\n\nPhotography – process of making pictures by the action of recording light patterns, reflected or emitted from objects, on a photosensitive medium or an image sensor through a timed exposure. The process is done through mechanical, chemical, or electronic devices known as cameras.\nMeditative photography\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPhotographic processing\n\n\nHistory of photography\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33495527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33495527", "title": "Penoyre &amp; Prasad", "text": "Penoyre &amp; Prasad\n\nPenoyre & Prasad is an architectural practice based in London. It was established in 1988 by Sunand Prasad and Greg Penoyre. The practice has an interest in low energy and sustainability. In 2007 Sunand Prasad became president of the Royal Institute of British Architects.\n\nThe practice has designed many public buildings, with the Richard Desmond Children's Eye Centre at London's Moorfields Eye Hospital winning the World Architecture News Healthcare Building of the Year 2009. The 2006 Ashburton Learning Village in Croydon includes many sustainable design features.\n\nThe work of the practice was published in a 2007 book titled: Transformations: the architecture of Penoyre & Prasad.\n"}
{"id": "23385964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23385964", "title": "Richard Bartholomew", "text": "Richard Bartholomew\n\nRichard Lawrence Bartholomew (1926–1985) was an Indian art critic, photographer, painter, poet, and writer.\n\nRichard Bartholomew fled from Tavoy (Dawei), Burma (Myanmar), where he was born, during the Second World War. To escape the Japanese capture of Burma and the imminent persecution on account of their Christian names, Bartholomew fled with his family, walking the General Stilwell Road from Mandalay to Ledo in upper Assam, India. His schooling at St. Paul's School in Rangoon (Yangon) was interrupted because of the Japanese invasion and Bartholomew finished high school at Delhi's Cambridge School. He received his bachelor's and master's degree from St. Stephen's College, Delhi in 1950. While at St. Stephens, he met Rati Batra, his future wife, who was herself a refugee from Pakistan who came to India during the Partition in 1947. Bartholomew lived in India as a stateless citizen until 1967 when he gained Indian citizenship, thereby closing all possibilities of returning to Burma which had become a dictatorship from the early–1960s.\n\nBartholomew pursued a career not only as an art critic but also as a writer, poet, painter, and curator. Solo shows of his work were held in Delhi and Bombay in the 1950s. Between then and the 1970s, he documented life around him through photography. Though he rarely exhibited his photographic work during his lifetime, his pictures intimately portrayed his family and his circle of artist friends and associates and his travels in India and the US.\n\nBartholomew was a pioneering art critic in that he was one of the first to initiate dialogues with painters. He fostered a sense of community within the artists and communicated their ideals to the public who were not entirely receptive or convinced of the daring, artistic exploration of India's Progressive Art Movement.\n\nThrough numerous reviews published from the early–1950s until the late–1970s in publications like \"The Indian Express\", \"The Times of India\", and \"Thought\", Bartholomew documented the artistic trajectories of painters such as Francis Newton Souza, Tyeb Mehta, Manishi Dey, Biren De, Ram Kumar, Krishen Khanna, Akbar Padamsee, SH Raza, Sailoz Mookherjea, Bhupen Khakkar, Satish Gujral; sculptors like Ramkinkar Baij, Dhanraj Bhagat, Chintamoni Kar, Somnath Hore, Sankho Chaudhuri; graphic artists including Kanwal Krishna, Devayani Krishna, Krishna Reddy, Jagmohan Chopra, Jyoti Bhatt as well as renowned photographers Raghu Rai and TS Satyan.\n\nBesides a series of articles on Indian and Tibetan art, Bartholomew also co-authored, Husain, a monograph on M.F. Husain which was published by Harry Abrams, New York in 1972. In 1974, he published a monograph on Krishna Reddy. He also wrote poems and short stories which were published in magazines including \"Thought\" and \"Illustrated Weekly\".\n\nBartholomew was the Gallery Director of Kunika-Chemould, New Delhi's first contemporary art gallery. Subsequently, from 1966–1973, he worked with the Tibet House, New Delhi as their curator and development officer where he catalogued the Dalai Lama's collection of religious artefacts and travelled with them to the US and Japan. He was also the recipient of the Asian Cultural Council's John D. Rockefeller 3rd Award in 1970. He was appointed Commissioner of the Silver Jubilee of Indian Independence exhibition held in Washington DC in 1973 and travelled to UK in 1982 as a British Council Visitor and as Commissioner of the Festival of India Exhibition held in Britain in 1982, during which he co-curated the exhibition \"Contemporary Indian Art\" at the Royal Academy of Arts with Geeta Kapur and Akbar Padamsee. Bartholomew served as the Secretary of the Lalit Kala Akademi from 1977 to 1985.\n\nBarely 58, Bartholomew died in 1985. He is survived by his wife Rati Bartholomew and his two sons Pablo and Robin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59545", "title": "Sagrada Família", "text": "Sagrada Família\n\nThe (; ; ) is a large unfinished Roman Catholic church in Barcelona, designed by Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí (1852–1926). Gaudí's work on the building is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and in November 2010 Pope Benedict XVI consecrated and proclaimed it a minor basilica, as distinct from a cathedral, which must be the seat of a bishop.\n\nIn 1882, construction of Sagrada Família started under architect Francisco de Paula del Villar. In 1883, when Villar resigned, Gaudí took over as chief architect, transforming the project with his architectural and engineering style, combining Gothic and curvilinear Art Nouveau forms. Gaudí devoted the remainder of his life to the project, and he is buried in the crypt. At the time of his death at age 73 in 1926, when he was run down by a streetcar, less than a quarter of the project was complete.\n\nRelying solely on private donations, Sagrada Familia's construction progressed slowly and was interrupted by the Spanish Civil War, only to resume intermittent progress in the 1950s. Since commencing construction in 1882, advancements in technologies such as computer aided design and computerised numerical control (CNC) have enabled faster progress and construction passed the midpoint in 2010. However, some of the project's greatest challenges remain, including the construction of ten more spires, each symbolising an important Biblical figure in the New Testament. It is anticipated that the building can be completed by 2026—the centenary of Gaudí's death. \n\nThe basilica has a long history of dividing the citizens of Barcelona: over the initial possibility it might compete with Barcelona's cathedral, over Gaudí's design itself, over the possibility that work after Gaudí's death disregarded his design, and the 2007 proposal to build an underground tunnel of Spain's high-speed rail link to France which could disturb its stability. Describing Sagrada Família, art critic Rainer Zerbst said \"it is probably impossible to find a church building anything like it in the entire history of art\", and Paul Goldberger describes it as \"the most extraordinary personal interpretation of Gothic architecture since the Middle Ages\".\n\nThe Basilica of the Sagrada Família was the inspiration of a bookseller, Josep Maria Bocabella, founder of Asociación Espiritual de Devotos de San José (Spiritual Association of Devotees of St. Joseph).\n\nAfter a visit to the Vatican in 1872, Bocabella returned from Italy with the intention of building a church inspired by the basilica at Loreto. The apse crypt of the church, funded by donations, was begun 19 March 1882, on the festival of St. Joseph, to the design of the architect Francisco de Paula del Villar, whose plan was for a Gothic revival church of a standard form. The apse crypt was completed before Villar's resignation on 18 March 1883, when Gaudí assumed responsibility for its design, which he changed radically. Antoni Gaudí began work on the church in 1883 but was not appointed Architect Director until 1884.\n\nOn the subject of the extremely long construction period, Gaudí is said to have remarked: \"My client is not in a hurry.\" When Gaudí died in 1926, the basilica was between 15 and 25 percent complete. After Gaudí's death, work continued under the direction of Domènec Sugrañes i Gras until interrupted by the Spanish Civil War in 1936.\n\nParts of the unfinished basilica and Gaudí's models and workshop were destroyed during the war by Catalan anarchists. The present design is based on reconstructed versions of the plans that were burned in a fire as well as on modern adaptations. Since 1940 the architects Francesc Quintana, Isidre Puig Boada, Lluís Bonet i Gari and Francesc Cardoner have carried on the work. The illumination was designed by Carles Buïgas.\nThe current director and son of Lluís Bonet, Jordi Bonet i Armengol, has been introducing computers into the design and construction process since the 1980s. Mark Burry of New Zealand serves as Executive Architect and Researcher. Sculptures by J. Busquets, Etsuro Sotoo and the controversial Josep Maria Subirachs decorate the fantastical façades. Barcelona-born Jordi Fauli took over as chief architect in 2012.\n\nThe central nave vaulting was completed in 2000 and the main tasks since then have been the construction of the transept vaults and apse. , work concentrated on the crossing and supporting structure for the main tower of Jesus Christ as well as the southern enclosure of the central nave, which will become the Glory façade.\n\nThe church shares its site with the Sagrada Família Schools building, a school originally designed by Gaudí in 1909 for the children of the construction workers. Relocated in 2002 from the eastern corner of the site to the southern corner, the building now houses an exhibition.\n\nChief architect Jordi Fauli announced in October 2015 that construction is 70 percent complete and has entered its final phase of raising six immense towers. The towers and most of the church's structure are to be completed by 2026, the centennial of Gaudí's death; decorative elements should be complete by 2030 or 2032. Visitor entrance fees of 15–20 euros finance the annual construction budget of 25million euros .\n\nComputer-aided design technology has been used to accelerate construction of the building. Current technology allows stone to be shaped off-site by a CNC milling machine, whereas in the 20th century the stone was carved by hand.\n\nIn 2008, some renowned Catalan architects advocated halting construction, to respect Gaudí's original designs, which although they were not exhaustive and were partially destroyed, have been partially reconstructed in recent years.\n\nSince 2013, AVE high-speed trains have passed near the Sagrada Família through an underground tunnel that runs beneath the centre of Barcelona.\n\nThe tunnel's construction, which began on 26 March 2010, was controversial. The Ministry of Public Works of Spain (\"Ministerio de Fomento\") claimed the project posed no risk to the church. Sagrada Família engineers and architects disagreed, saying there was no guarantee that the tunnel would not affect the stability of the building. The Board of the Sagrada Família (\"Patronat de la Sagrada Família\") and the neighborhood association \"AVE pel Litoral\" (AVE by the Coast) had led a campaign against this route for the AVE, without success.\n\nIn October 2010, the tunnel boring machine reached the church underground under the location of the building's principal façade. Service through the tunnel was inaugurated on 8 January 2013. Track in the tunnel makes use of a system by Edilon Sedra in which the rails are embedded in an elastic material to dampen vibrations. No damage to the Sagrada Família has been reported to date.\n\nThe main nave was covered and an organ installed in mid-2010, allowing the still-unfinished building to be used for religious services. The church was consecrated by Pope Benedict XVI on 7 November 2010 in front of a congregation of 6,500 people. A further 50,000 people followed the consecration Mass from outside the basilica, where more than 100 bishops and 300 priests were on hand to offer Holy Communion. Starting on 9 July 2017, there is an international mass celebrated at the basilica on every Sunday and holy day of obligation, at 9 a.m, open to the public (until the church is full). Occasionally, Mass is celebrated at other times, where attendance requires an invitation. When masses are scheduled, instructions to obtain an invitation are posted on the basilica's website. In addition, visitors may pray in the chapel of the Blessed Sacrament and Penitence.\n\nOn 19 April 2011, an arsonist started a small fire in the sacristy which forced the evacuation of tourists and construction workers; the sacristy was damaged, and the fire took 45 minutes to contain.\n\nThe style of la Sagrada Família is variously likened to Spanish Late Gothic, Catalan Modernism and to Art Nouveau or Catalan Noucentisme. While the Sagrada Família falls within the Art Nouveau period, Nikolaus Pevsner points out that, along with Charles Rennie Mackintosh in Glasgow, Gaudí carried the Art Nouveau style far beyond its usual application as a surface decoration.\n\nWhile never intended to be a cathedral (seat of a bishop), the Sagrada Família was planned from the outset to be a cathedral-sized building. Its ground-plan has obvious links to earlier Spanish cathedrals such as Burgos Cathedral, León Cathedral and Seville Cathedral. In common with Catalan and many other European Gothic cathedrals, the Sagrada Família is short in comparison to its width, and has a great complexity of parts, which include double aisles, an ambulatory with a chevet of seven apsidal chapels, a multitude of towers and three portals, each widely different in structure as well as ornament. Where it is common for cathedrals in Spain to be surrounded by numerous chapels and ecclesiastical buildings, the plan of this church has an unusual feature: a covered passage or cloister which forms a rectangle enclosing the church and passing through the narthex of each of its three portals. With this peculiarity aside, the plan, influenced by Villar's crypt, barely hints at the complexity of Gaudí's design or its deviations from traditional church architecture. There are no exact right angles to be seen inside or outside the church, and few straight lines in the design.\n\nGaudí's original design calls for a total of eighteen spires, representing in ascending order of height the Twelve Apostles, the Virgin Mary, the four Evangelists and, tallest of all, Jesus Christ. Eight spires have been built , corresponding to four apostles at the Nativity façade and four apostles at the Passion façade.\n\nAccording to the 2005 \"Works Report\" of the project's official website, drawings signed by Gaudí and recently found in the Municipal Archives, indicate that the spire of the Virgin was in fact intended by Gaudí to be shorter than those of the evangelists. The spire height will follow Gaudí's intention, which according to the report will work with the existing foundation. \n\nThe Evangelists' spires will be surmounted by sculptures of their traditional symbols: a winged bull (Saint Luke), a winged man (Saint Matthew), an eagle (Saint John), and a winged lion (Saint Mark). The central spire of Jesus Christ is to be surmounted by a giant cross; its total height () will be one metre less than that of Montjuïc hill in Barcelona as Gaudí believed that his creation should not surpass God's. The lower spires are surmounted by communion hosts with sheaves of wheat and chalices with bunches of grapes, representing the Eucharist. Plans call for tubular bells to be placed within the spires, driven by the force of the wind, and driving sound down into the interior of the church. Gaudí performed acoustic studies to achieve the appropriate acoustic results inside the temple. However, only one bell is currently in place.\n\nThe completion of the spires will make Sagrada Família the tallest church building in the world.\n\nThe Church will have three grand façades: the Nativity façade to the East, the Passion façade to the West, and the Glory façade to the South (yet to be completed). The Nativity Façade was built before work was interrupted in 1935 and bears the most direct Gaudí influence. The Passion façade was built according to the design that Gaudi created in 1917. The construction began in 1954, and the towers, built over the elliptical plan, were finished in 1976. It is especially striking for its spare, gaunt, tormented characters, including emaciated figures of Christ being scourged at the pillar; and Christ on the Cross. These controversial designs are the work of Josep Maria Subirachs. The Glory façade, on which construction began in 2002, will be the largest and most monumental of the three and will represent one's ascension to God. It will also depict various scenes such as Hell, Purgatory, and will include elements such as the Seven deadly sins and the Seven heavenly virtues.\n\nConstructed between 1894 and 1930, the Nativity façade was the first façade to be completed. Dedicated to the birth of Jesus, it is decorated with scenes reminiscent of elements of life. Characteristic of Gaudí's naturalistic style, the sculptures are ornately arranged and decorated with scenes and images from nature, each a symbol in its own manner. For instance, the three porticos are separated by two large columns, and at the base of each lies a turtle or a tortoise (one to represent the land and the other the sea; each are symbols of time as something set in stone and unchangeable). In contrast to the figures of turtles and their symbolism, two chameleons can be found at either side of the façade, and are symbolic of change.\n\nThe façade faces the rising sun to the northeast, a symbol for the birth of Christ. It is divided into three porticos, each of which represents a theological virtue (Hope, Faith and Charity). The Tree of Life rises above the door of Jesus in the portico of Charity. Four towers complete the façade and are each dedicated to a Saint (Matthias, Barnabas, Jude the Apostle, and Simon the Zealot).\n\nOriginally, Gaudí intended for this façade to be polychromed, for each archivolt to be painted with a wide array of colours. He wanted every statue and figure to be painted. In this way the figures of humans would appear as much alive as the figures of plants and animals.\n\nGaudí chose this façade to embody the structure and decoration of the whole church. He was well aware that he would not finish the church and that he would need to set an artistic and architectural example for others to follow. He also chose for this façade to be the first on which to begin construction and for it to be, in his opinion, the most attractive and accessible to the public. He believed that if he had begun construction with the Passion Façade, one that would be hard and bare (as if made of bones), before the Nativity Façade, people would have withdrawn at the sight of it. Some of the statues were destroyed in 1936 during the Spanish Civil War, and subsequently were reconstructed by the Japanese artist Etsuro Sotoo.\n\nIn contrast to the highly decorated Nativity Façade, the Passion Façade is austere, plain and simple, with ample bare stone, and is carved with harsh straight lines to resemble the bones of a skeleton. Dedicated to the Passion of Christ, the suffering of Jesus during his crucifixion, the façade was intended to portray the sins of man. Construction began in 1954, following the drawings and instructions left by Gaudí for future architects and sculptors. The towers were completed in 1976, and in 1987 a team of sculptors, headed by Josep Maria Subirachs, began work sculpting the various scenes and details of the façade. They aimed to give a rigid, angular form to provoke a dramatic effect. Gaudí intended for this façade to strike fear into the onlooker. He wanted to \"break\" arcs and \"cut\" columns, and to use the effect of chiaroscuro (dark angular shadows contrasted by harsh rigid light) to further show the severity and brutality of Christ's sacrifice.\n\nFacing the setting sun, indicative and symbolic of the death of Christ, the Passion Façade is supported by six large and inclined columns, designed to resemble Sequoia trunks. Above there is a pyramidal pediment, made up of eighteen bone-shaped columns, which culminate in a large cross with a crown of thorns. Each of the four towers is dedicated to an apostle (James, Thomas, Philip, and Bartholomew) and, like the Nativity Façade, there are three porticos, each representing the theological virtues, though in a much different light.\n\nThe scenes sculpted into the façade may be divided into three levels, which ascend in an \"S\" form and reproduce the stations of the Cross (Via Crucis of Christ). The lowest level depicts scenes from Jesus' last night before the crucifixion, including the Last Supper, Kiss of Judas, Ecce homo, and the Sanhedrin trial of Jesus. The middle level portrays the Calvary, or Golgotha, of Christ, and includes The Three Marys, Saint Longinus, Saint Veronica, and a hollow-face illusion of Christ on the Veil of Veronica. In the third and final level the Death, Burial and the Resurrection of Christ can be seen. A bronze figure situated on a bridge creating a link between the towers of Saint Bartholomew and Saint Thomas represents the Ascension of Jesus.\n\nThe largest and most striking of the façades will be the Glory Façade, on which construction began in 2002. It will be the principal façade and will offer access to the central nave. Dedicated to the Celestial Glory of Jesus, it represents the road to God: Death, Final Judgment, and Glory, while Hell is left for those who deviate from God's will. Aware that he would not live long enough to see this façade completed, Gaudí made a model which was demolished in 1936, whose original fragments were base for the development of the design for the façade. The completion of this façade may require the partial demolition of the block with buildings across the Carrer de Mallorca.\nTo reach the Glory Portico the large staircase will lead over the underground passage built over Carrer de Mallorca with the decoration representing Hell and vice. On other projects Carrer de Mallorca will have to go underground. It will be decorated with demons, idols, false gods, heresy and schisms, etc. Purgatory and death will also be depicted, the latter using tombs along the ground. The portico will have seven large columns dedicated to gifts of the Holy Spirit. At the base of the columns there will be representations of the Seven Deadly Sins, and at the top, The Seven Virtues.\n\nThis facade will have five doors corresponding to the five naves of the temple, with the central one having a triple entrance, that will give the Glory Façade a total seven doors representing the sacraments:\n\n\nIn September 2008, the doors of the Glory façade, by Josep Maria Subirachs, were installed. Inscribed with the Lord's prayer, these central doors are inscribed with the words \"Give us our daily bread\" in fifty different languages. The handles of the door are the letters \"A\" and \"G\" that form the initials of Antoni Gaudí within the phrase \"lead us not into temptation\".\n\nThe church plan is that of a Latin cross with five aisles. The central nave vaults reach while the side nave vaults reach . The transept has three aisles. The columns are on a 7.5metre (25 ft) grid. However, the columns of the apse, resting on del Villar's foundation, do not adhere to the grid, requiring a section of columns of the ambulatory to transition to the grid thus creating a horseshoe pattern to the layout of those columns. The crossing rests on the four central columns of porphyry supporting a great hyperboloid surrounded by two rings of twelve hyperboloids (currently under construction). The central vault reaches . The apse is capped by a hyperboloid vault reaching . Gaudí intended that a visitor standing at the main entrance be able to see the vaults of the nave, crossing, and apse; thus the graduated increase in vault loft.\n\nThere are gaps in the floor of the apse, providing a view down into the crypt below.\n\nThe columns of the interior are a unique Gaudí design. Besides branching to support their load, their ever-changing surfaces are the result of the intersection of various geometric forms. The simplest example is that of a square base evolving into an octagon as the column rises, then a sixteen-sided form, and eventually to a circle. This effect is the result of a three-dimensional intersection of helicoidal columns (for example a square cross-section column twisting clockwise and a similar one twisting counter-clockwise).\n\nEssentially none of the interior surfaces are flat; the ornamentation is comprehensive and rich, consisting in large part of abstract shapes which combine smooth curves and jagged points. Even detail-level work such as the iron railings for balconies and stairways are full of curvaceous elaboration.\n\nIn 2010 an organ was installed in the chancel by the Blancafort Orgueners de Montserrat organ builders. The instrument has 26 stops (1,492 pipes) on two manuals and a pedalboard.\n\nTo overcome the unique acoustical challenges posed by the church's architecture and vast size, several additional organs will be installed at various points within the building. These instruments will be playable separately (from their own individual consoles) and simultaneously (from a single mobile console), yielding an organ of some 8000 pipes when completed.\n\nThe towers on the Nativity façade are crowned with geometrically shaped tops that are reminiscent of Cubism (they were finished around 1930), and the intricate decoration is contemporary to the style of Art Nouveau, but Gaudí's unique style drew primarily from nature, not other artists or architects, and resists categorization.\n\nGaudí used hyperboloid structures in later designs of the Sagrada Família (more obviously after 1914), however there are a few places on the nativity façade—a design not equated with Gaudí's ruled-surface design—where the hyperboloid crops up. For example, all around the scene with the pelican there are numerous examples (including the basket held by one of the figures). There is a hyperboloid adding structural stability to the cypress tree (by connecting it to the bridge). And finally, the \"bishop's mitre\" spires are capped with hyperboloid structures. In his later designs, ruled surfaces are prominent in the nave's vaults and windows and the surfaces of the Passion façade.\n\nThemes throughout the decoration include words from the liturgy. The towers are decorated with words such as \"Hosanna\", \"Excelsis\", and \"Sanctus\"; the great doors of the Passion façade reproduce excerpts of the Passion of Jesus from the New Testament in various languages, mainly Catalan; and the Glory façade is to be decorated with the words from the Apostles' Creed, while its main door reproduce the entire Lord's Prayer in Catalan, surrounded by multiple variations of \"Give us this day our daily bread\" in other languages. The three entrances symbolize the three virtues: Faith, Hope and Love. Each of them is also dedicated to a part of Christ's life. The Nativity Façade is dedicated to his birth; it also has a cypress tree which symbolizes the tree of life. The Glory façade is dedicated to his glory period. The Passion façade is symbolic of his suffering. The apse tower bears Latin text of Hail Mary. All in all, the Sagrada Família is symbolic of the lifetime of Christ.\n\nAreas of the sanctuary will be designated to represent various concepts, such as saints, virtues and sins, and secular concepts such as regions, presumably with decoration to match.\n\n\nThe art historian Nikolaus Pevsner, writing in the 1960s, referred to Gaudí's buildings as growing \"like sugar loaves and anthills\" and describes the ornamenting of buildings with shards of broken pottery as possibly \"bad taste\" but handled with vitality and \"ruthless audacity\".\n\nThe building's design itself has been polarizing. Assessments by Gaudí's fellow architects were generally\npositive; Louis Sullivan greatly admired it, describing Sagrada Família as the\n\"greatest piece of creative architecture in the last twenty-five years. It is spirit symbolised\nin stone!\"\nWalter Gropius also praised the Sagrada Família, describing the building's walls as \"a marvel of\ntechnical perfection\".\nTime Magazine called it \"sensual, spiritual, whimsical, exuberant\", George Orwell called it \"one of the most hideous buildings in the world\", James A. Michener called it \"one of the strangest-looking serious buildings in the world\" and British historian Gerald Brenan stated about\nthe building \"Not even in the European architecture of the period can one discover anything so vulgar\nor pretentious.\" The building's distinctive silhouette has nevertheless become symbolic of Barcelona itself, drawing an estimated 2.5 million visitors annually.\n\nTogether with six other Gaudí buildings in Barcelona, part of la Sagrada Família is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, as testifying \"to Gaudí's exceptional creative contribution to the development of architecture and building technology\", \"having represented el Modernisme of Catalonia\" and \"anticipated and influenced many of the forms and techniques that were relevant to the development of modern construction in the 20th century\". The inscription only includes the Crypt and the Nativity Façade.\n\nVisitors can access the Nave, Crypt, Museum, Shop, and the Passion and Nativity towers. Entrance to either of the towers requires a reservation and advance purchase of a ticket. Access is possible only by lift (elevator) and a short walk up the remainder of the towers to the bridge between the towers. Descent is via a very narrow spiral staircase of over 300 steps. There is a posted caution for those with medical conditions.\n\nAs of June 2017, on-line ticket purchase has been available. As of August 2010, there had been a service whereby visitors could buy an entry code either at Servicaixa ATM kiosks (part of \"La Caixa\") or online. During the peak season, May to October, reservation delays for entrance of up to a few days are not unusual.\n\nConstruction on Sagrada Família is not supported by any government or official church sources. Private patrons funded the initial stages. Money from tickets purchased by tourists is now used to pay for the work, and private donations are accepted through the Friends of the Sagrada Família.\n\nThe construction budget for 2009 was €18 million.\n\nIn October 2018, Sagrada Família trustees agreed to pay €36 million in payments to the city authorities, to land a building permit after 136 years of construction. Most of the funds would be directed to improve the access between the church and Barcelona's metro system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44933916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44933916", "title": "School of the Arts Foundation, Inc.", "text": "School of the Arts Foundation, Inc.\n\nThe School of the Arts Foundation, Inc. was founded in 1993 as a 501 (c) (3) non-profit organization with the charter of raising funds to enhance arts and academic programs at the internationally recognized Alexander W. Dreyfoos School of the Arts in West Palm Beach, Florida, in the School District of Palm Beach County. Thousands of donors contribute to the foundation annually, including novelist James Patterson whose wife, Sue Patterson, sits on the Board. The organization has its offices on the campus of the school in the Fine Arts building, and a small professional staff headed by Patricia Montesino Broxson.\n"}
{"id": "1171896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1171896", "title": "Scriblerus Club", "text": "Scriblerus Club\n\nThe Scriblerus Club was an informal association of authors, based in London, that came together in the early 18th century. They were prominent figures in the Augustan Age of English letters. The nucleus of the club included the satirists Jonathan Swift and Alexander Pope. Other members were John Gay, John Arbuthnot, Henry St. John and Thomas Parnell. The group was founded in 1714 and lasted until the death of the founders, finally ending in 1745. Pope and Swift are the two members whose reputations and work have the most long-lasting influence. Working collaboratively, the group created the persona of Martinus Scriblerus, through whose writings they accomplished their satirical aims. Very little of this material, however, was published until the 1740s. Robert Harley, 1st Earl of Oxford and Mortimer occasionally joined the club for meetings, though he is not known to have contributed to their literary output. He, along with Henry St John, 1st Viscount Bolingbroke, contributed to the literary productions of the Club.\n\nThe club began as an effort to satirize the abuses of learning wherever they might be found, which led to \"The Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus\". The second edition of Pope's \"The Dunciad\" also contains work attributed to Martinus Scriblerus.\n\nRichard Owen Cambridge wrote a mock epic poem, the \"Scribleriad\", where the hero is Martinus Scriblerus.\n\nHenry Fielding's play \"The Welsh Opera\" is presented as a tribute to the \"Scriblerians\". Fielding's pen name was \"Scriblerus Secundus.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25070755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25070755", "title": "Selected Essays, 1917-1932", "text": "Selected Essays, 1917-1932\n\nSelected Essays, 1917-1932 is a collection of prose and literary criticism by T. S. Eliot. Eliot's work fundamentally changed literary thinking and \"Selected Essays\" provides both an overview and an in-depth examination of his theory. It was published in 1932 by his employers, Faber & Faber, costing 12/6 (\"2009: £\"). \n\nIn addition to his poetry, by 1932, Eliot was already accepted as one of English Literature's most important critics. In this position he was instrumental in the reviving interest in the long‐neglected Jacobean playwrights. \"A Dialogue on Dramatic Poetry\" was originally an addendum to Eliot's preface to Dryden's \"Essay of Dramatick Poesie\" (1928 reprint). Further essays include \"The Metaphysical Poets (1921)\" in which Eliot argued that a \"dissociation of sensibility\" set in... due to the influence of ... Milton and Dryden. Furthermore the modern poet ‘must be difficult’... ‘to force, to dislocate if necessary, language into his meaning’. \"Philip Massinger (1920)\" contains his aphorism \"Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal\".\n\nEliot converted to the Church of England and some of the essays expressed the form and discipline he felt necessary for fulfillment in his own life. \"For Lancelot Andrewes (1926)\", examines Andrewes, a 17th-century Anglican bishop whose Eliot considers an important figure in history of the church, distinguished for the quality of his thoughts and prose. In \"The Humanism of Irving Babbitt (1927)\", Eliot posits that Babbitt's faith in civilization must have a discipline derived from dogmatic religious authority.\n\n\"Selected Essays\" was placed fourth in the Intercollegiate Studies Institute's Fifty Best Books of the Century and sixth in Modern Library's Best 20th-Century Nonfiction.\n\nI\nII\nIII\nIV\nV\nVI\nVII\n"}
{"id": "26736386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26736386", "title": "Separation of Light from Darkness", "text": "Separation of Light from Darkness\n\nThe Separation of Light from Darkness is, from the perspective of the Genesis chronology, the first of nine central panels that run along the center of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling and which depict scenes from the Book of Genesis. Michelangelo probably completed this panel in the summer of 1512, the last year of the Sistine ceiling project. It is one of five smaller scenes that alternate with four larger scenes that run along the center of the Sistine ceiling. The \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" is based on verses 3–5 from the first chapter of the Book of Genesis:\nAlthough in terms of the Genesis chronology it is the first of nine central panels along the Sistine ceiling, the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" was the last of the nine panels painted by Michelangelo. Michelangelo painted the Sistine ceiling in two stages. Between May 1508 and the summer of 1511, he completed the \"entrance half\" of the Sistine chapel and ended this stage by painting the \"Creation of Eve\" and the scenes flanking this central panel. After an idle period of about 6 months, he painted the \"altar half,\" starting with the \"Creation of Adam\", between the winter of 1511 and October 1512.\n\nIn the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\", the image of God is framed by four \"ignudi\" and by two shields or medallions. The \"ignudi\" are young, nude males that Michelangelo painted as supporting figures at each corner of the five smaller narrative scenes along the center of the ceiling. There are a total of 20 \"ignudi\". These figures are all different and appear less constrained within their space than the Ancestors of Christ or the Bronze Nudes. In the earliest frescoes painted by Michelangelo toward the entrance of the Sistine chapel, the \"ignudi\" are paired, and their poses are similar but with minor variations. The variations in the poses increase with each set until the poses of the final set of four \"ignudi\" in the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" bear no relation to each other.\n\nAlthough the meaning of these figures has never been completely clear, the Sistine scholar Heinrich Pfeiffer has proposed that the four \"ignudi\" associated with the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" represent day and night, which echo the theme of light and darkness. For instance, he points out that the \"ignudo\" next to God's right hand (on the side of darkness) is stretching as if awakening from sleep in the morning, that the diagonally opposed \"ignudo\" below God's knee (on the side of light) is carrying a heavy bundle of oak garlands on his shoulders, representing a daytime activity, and that the \"ignudo\" next to God's left arm is falling asleep and signifies nighttime.\nPfeiffer and other scholars have also suggested that in Michelangelo's Sistine iconography the \"ignudi\" represent angels and that the Bronze Nudes below the \"ignudi\" are fallen angels.\n\nTwo shields or medallions accompany each set of four \"ignudi\" in the five smaller Genesis panels along the center of the Sistine ceiling. They are often described as painted to resemble bronze. Each is decorated with a picture from either the Old Testament or the Book of Maccabees from the Apocrypha. The subjects of the shields are often violent. In the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" the shield above God shows Abraham sacrificing his son Isaac (Genesis 22:9–12), and the one below God shows the prophet Elijah as he is carried up to heaven in a chariot of fire (2 Kings 2:11).\n\nAt the center of the composition, God is shown in \"contrapposto\" rising into the sky, with arms outstretched separating the light from the darkness. Michelangelo employed in this fresco the challenging ceiling fresco technique of \"sotto in su\" (\"from below, upward\"), which makes a figure appear as if it is rising above the viewer by using foreshortening. The contrapposto pose was also used by Michelangelo in the \"David\". It is reported that Michelangelo painted this fresco in a single \"giornata\", that is, a single working day of approximately eight hours. During Michelangelo's lifetime, this fresco was considered evidence of the painter's technical prowess at its peak. For instance, Giorgio Vasari (1511–1574), Michelangelo's student and biographer, wrote in 1550:\n\n\"Furthermore, to demonstrate the perfection of his art and the greatness of God, Michelangelo depicted God dividing the light from darkness in these scenes, where He is seen in all His majesty as He sustains himself alone with open arms with the demonstration of love and creative energy.\n\nArt historians have noted several unusual features of this fresco. Andrew Graham-Dixon has pointed out that God has exaggerated pectoral muscles suggestive of female breasts, which he interprets as Michelangelo's attempt to illustrate \"male strength but also the fecundity of the female principle.\" In addition it has been noted that the anatomy of God's neck is too complex and does not resemble the normal contour of the neck. The lighting scheme of the image has been noted to be inconsistent; whereas the entire scene is illuminated from the bottom left, God's neck appears to have a different light source from the right.\n\nSeveral authors have proposed that Michelangelo concealed anatomical images in this fresco and that these anatomical images account for its unusual features. In an article published in the journal \"Neurosurgery\" in May 2010, Ian Suk, a medical illustrator, and Rafael Tamargo, a neurosurgeon, both from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, suggested that Michelangelo concealed three neuroanatomical images in the \"Separation of Light from Darkness.\" Suk and Tamargo explained that Michelangelo started to dissect cadavers at the age of 17–19 years and continued his anatomical studies throughout his life. As a result of his dissections, Michelangelo probably developed a detailed understanding of gross anatomy of the brain and spinal cord. They showed that the anatomical details in God's neck are unlike those of either other necks painted by Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel or of other necks painted by Michelangelo's contemporaries, such as Leonardo da Vinci and Raffaello Sanzio (Raphael). The unusual anatomy of God's neck is particularly evident when it is contrasted with the anatomy of the neck of the ignudo facing God in the upper left corner of the panel. The position of the neck of this ignudo is almost identical to that of God's neck, yet the ignudo's neck does not have any of the unusual lines found in God's neck. It is possible that Michelangelo placed these two analogous neck perspectives side by side to emphasize and contrast the hidden image in God's neck.\n\nSuk and Tamargo suggested that Michelangelo concealed a sophisticated image of the undersurface of the brainstem in God's neck and that by following Michelangelo's lines in God's neck, one can outline an anatomically correct image of the brainstem, cerebellum, temporal lobes, and optic chiasm. In addition, they suggested that Michelangelo also included an anterior view of the spinal cord in God's chest and an image of the optic nerves and globes in God's abdomen. They showed how a \"shadow analysis\" of the unusual lines in God's neck correspond to specific spaces around the brainstem known as the \"arachnoid cisterns,\" which were described in detail much later in 1875 but which Michelangelo inadvertently depicted in God's neck since he was able to render images with almost photographic accuracy. They concluded that \"being a painter of genius, a master anatomist, and a deeply religious man, Michelangelo cleverly enhanced his depiction of God in the iconographically critical panels on the Sistine Chapel vault with concealed images of the brain and in this way celebrated not only the glory of God, but also that of His most magnificent creation.\"\n\nOf note is that in an article published in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" in October 1990, Frank Meshberger, an obstetrician-gynecologist from Indiana, explained that Michelangelo similarly concealed an image of the brain in the shroud surrounding God in the \"Creation of Adam\". Since Michelangelo painted the \"Creation of Adam\" and the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\", along with two other Genesis panels, as a single thematic unit between the winter of 1511 and October 1512, it is possible that these four central panels have an underlying anatomical motif. Indeed, Garabed Eknoyan, a nephrologist from Baylor College of Medicine, proposed in an article published in \"Kidney International\" in March 2000 that Michelangelo concealed an image of a kidney in the \"Separation of Land and Water\", the third panel in the Genesis series. Michelangelo was particularly interested in kidney function because he suffered from kidney stones throughout his adult life and documented this interest in his letters and poems, according to Eknoyan.\n\nAlternatively, the concealed anatomical image in God's neck in the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" has been interpreted as a goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland). In an article published in the \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" in December 2003, Lennart Bondeson and Anne-Greath Bondeson from Malmo University Hospital in Sweden, argued that the abnormality in God's neck is a goiter. This interpretation has been challenged on the basis that goiters typically occur lower in the neck and, as stated by Suk and Tamargo, that \"it is unlikely that Michelangelo, a deeply religious individual, would have defiled the image of God in this important panel by giving God a goiter.\"\n\nAlong these lines, Gilson Barreto and Marcelo G. de Oliveira, in a book published in 2004, analyzed the \"Separation of Light from Darkness\" and noted that God's upper chest and outstretched arms define a \"U\" shape, which they suggested is reminiscent of the hyoid bone, although they do not offer a thematic explanation for this structure in the fresco.\n"}
{"id": "3144493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3144493", "title": "Six principles of Chinese painting", "text": "Six principles of Chinese painting\n\nThe Six principles of Chinese painting were established by Xie He in \"Six points to consider when judging a painting\" (繪畫六法, Pinyin:Huìhuà Liùfǎ) from the preface to his book \"The Record of the Classification of Old Painters\" (古畫品錄; Pinyin: Gǔhuà Pǐnlù) written circa 550 and refers to \"old\" and \"ancient\" practices. The six elements that define a painting are:\n\n\nThese have been translated over the years by a succession of sinologists with very varying translations. \"The problem lies, of course, in the terseness of the original Chinese, where each principle is stated in but four characters... Each period of Chinese painting has its own special way of interpreting the six principles...their application is fluid, varying according to period and artist\".\n"}
{"id": "17090332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17090332", "title": "Stories of Change", "text": "Stories of Change\n\nStories of Change is a 2008 documentary film by Kamar Ahmad Simon.\n\nThe documentary focuses on the lives of five women aging from 16 to 60, coming from different walks of life, from different professions, religions and regions of Bangladesh.\n\nThe film screened at various film festivals:\n"}
{"id": "5719378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5719378", "title": "Taiwan the Formosa", "text": "Taiwan the Formosa\n\nTaiwan the Formosa (sometimes Taiwan the Green; pe̍h-ōe-jī: \"Tâi-oân Chhùi-chhiⁿ\"; ) is a poem written (conceived in 1977; finalized in 1993) by Taiwanese poet and clergyman Tīⁿ Jî-gio̍k (鄭兒玉; John Jyi-giokk Ti'n, Er-Yu Cheng, died 11 December 2014), set to music between 1988 and 1993 by neo-Romantic Taiwanese composer Tyzen Hsiao. An English metrical translation was provided by Boris and Clare Anderson. The text represents an early example of the popular verse that emerged from the Taiwanese literature movement in the 1970s and 80s. In 1994 Hsiao used this hymn to conclude his \"1947 Overture\" for soprano, choir and orchestra.\n\n\"Taiwan the Formosa\" has been popular with pro-democracy activists and has been adopted by the Taiwan independence movement as a proposed national anthem for a future Republic of Taiwan. The first stanza is secular. The second, written by popular demand and published in number 2364 of Taiwan Church News in 1997, has overt Christian references in keeping with the poet's vocation as a minister in the Presbyterian Church in Taiwan. The second verse is intended only for performance in church settings or on similarly appropriate occasions.\n\nThe poem was originally written in Taiwanese pe̍h-ōe-jī. It has subsequently been translated into other languages, such as Hakka (by another clergyman Hiû San-hiùng).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "693925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=693925", "title": "Teatro Comunale di Bologna", "text": "Teatro Comunale di Bologna\n\nThe Teatro Comunale di Bologna is an opera house in Bologna, Italy, and is one of the most important opera venues in Italy. Typically, it presents eight operas with six performances during its November to April season.\n\nWhile there had been various theatres presenting opera in Bologna since the early 17th century, they had either fallen into disuse or burnt down. However, from the early 18th century, the \"Teatro Marsigli-Rossi\" had been presenting operatic works by popular composers of the day including Vivaldi, Gluck, and Niccolò Piccinni. The \"Teatro Malvezzi\", built in 1651, burned down in February 1745 and this event prompted the construction of a new public theatre, the \"Nuovo Teatro Pubblico\", as the Teatro Comunale was first called when it opened on 14 May 1763.\n\nAlthough he had been opposed by several others who lost the design competition, it was won by the architect Antonio Galli Bibiena and the theatre's inaugural performance was Gluck's \"Il trionfo di Clelia\", an opera which the composer had written for the occasion. A bell-shaped auditorium consisting of four tiers of boxes plus a royal box and small gallery with a ceiling decorated as if open to the sky was built primarily of masonry as a protection against fire. However, much work remained unfinished, the facade in particular which was not completed until 1936. Also, many of the backstage facilities which would allow for the presentations of operas were unfinished and only completed due to competition from another theatre in 1805.\n\nIt was to be the first major opera house to be constructed with public funds and owned by the municipality. Although 35 of its 99 boxes were sold for private use, the terms of ownership were also unique in that they have been described as being limited to \"the right to rent in perpetuity\" rather than outright ownership and control.\n\nVarious renovations were undertaken between 1818 and 1820 and also in 1853/54. After fire destroyed much of the stage area in 1931, the theatre was closed, and it did not re-open until 14 November 1935. By that date, the original bell-shaped auditorium had given way to a horseshoe-shaped one seating 1,034 people.\n\nThe 19th century saw the presentation of twenty operas by Gioachino Rossini, while seven of Vincenzo Bellini's ten operas were presented in the 1830s. Works by Giuseppe Verdi and, later in 1871, the Italian premiere of Wagner's \"Lohengrin\", dominated the theatre's repertoire as the century progressed. In fact, Bologna became the location for several other Wagner opera premieres in Italy, notably with the composer present for his \"Rienzi\" and the \"Parsifal\" premiere on 1 January 1914.\n\nAnother major figure associated with the \"Teatro Comunale\" from 1894 onwards was the conductor Arturo Toscanini who presented Verdi's \"Falstaff\" in that year and conducted there until the Second World War.\n\nPremieres at the house have included Alessandro Solbiati's \"Il suono giallo\", based on Wassily Kandinsky's experimental play \"The Yellow Sound\" on 13 June 2015.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "35606783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35606783", "title": "Teresa Moure", "text": "Teresa Moure\n\nMaría Teresa Moure Pereiro (Born in 1969, Monforte de Lemos, Spain) is a Galician writer. She lectures in Linguistics at the University of Santiago de Compostela. She has published essays, novels, children’s books and a play. She was awarded the Lueiro Rey Prize and the Arzobispo San Clemente Prize for her first novel \"A xeira das árbores\" (Sotelo Blanco, 2004) and the Ramón Piñeiro Essay Prize for \"Outro idioma é posible\" (Galaxia, 2005). Her highly acclaimed novel \"Herba moura\" won the Xerais Prize for novels, the AELG Prize, the Irmandade do Libro á Autora Prize, the Benito Soto Prize for the best novel of 2005 and the Premio de la Crítica Española. She also received the Rafael Dieste Theatre Prize in 2007 for her play \"Unha primavera para Aldara\". Her work has been translated into several languages. She provides her students of Linguistics with a new perspective on a discipline which continues to have roots in the European and Latin tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1602002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602002", "title": "The Believer (film)", "text": "The Believer (film)\n\nThe Believer is a 2001 American drama film directed by Henry Bean and written by Bean and Mark Jacobson. It stars Ryan Gosling as Daniel Balint, a Jew who becomes a neo-Nazi. The film is loosely based on the true story of Dan Burros, a member of the American Nazi Party and the New York branch of the United Klans of America. He committed suicide after being revealed as Jewish by a \"New York Times\" reporter. It won the Grand Jury Prize at the 2001 Sundance Film Festival and the Golden St. George at the 23rd Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nDaniel Balint is a former Jewish yeshiva student, brilliant but troubled, who is now a fanatically violent neo-Nazi in New York in his early twenties. As a child, he often challenged his teachers with unorthodox interpretations of scripture. He once argued that the Binding of Isaac was not about Abraham's faith but God's power: that God did not want Abraham to accomplish a particular task but instead asks unquestioning obedience, which Abraham refuses to give. He concluded that God is a bully.\n\nDaniel finds a meeting of fascists run by Curtis Zampf and Lina Moebius, where he also makes a connection with Lina's daughter Carla. Daniel advocates killing Jews, and a banker named Manzetti in particular, but Curtis and Lina oppose harming Jews on practical if not moral grounds. Impressed with Daniel's intelligence, Lina invites him to their camp retreat in the country. Afterward, Daniel and his fellow neo-Nazi friends pick a fight with two African-American men, get arrested, and are bailed out of jail by Carla. He spends the night with her but returns to the home of his ailing father. Daniel searches his Hebrew school notebooks and finds a semiautomatic pistol. He is harangued by his sister Linda for his Nazi beliefs, but she also urges him to stay and have \"Shabbat\" dinner with their father. The men watch television, which is forbidden, leading them to commiserate on the incomprehensibility of Jewish law.\n\nGuy Danielsen, a journalist writing an article on hate groups in the wake of the Oklahoma City Bombing, meets Daniel for an interview. He listens to Daniel's antisemitic rant, then reveals that he had been in contact with Daniel's old rabbi Stanley Nadelman and knows that Daniel is Jewish. Daniel pulls out his pistol and threatens to commit suicide if Guy publishes the truth.\n\nDaniel goes to Lina's fascist camp retreat, where he meets Drake, a skilled marksman, along with an explosives expert. Six of the retreat participants, including Daniel, go to a Jewish deli, where they mock the other patrons and torment the owner about Jewish dietary laws until a fight breaks out. After this fight, Daniel and his friends are required by a court to take sensitivity training, where they listen to the experiences of Holocaust survivors. One talks about how his infant son was murdered by a Nazi. Daniel is enraged that the man did nothing to save his son, but all the survivors assert that Daniel would also have done nothing to avoid being killed, and he walks out in anger.\n\nThe story will haunt him, and he imagines himself as both the Nazi and the Jew. Later that night, Daniel and the other neo-Nazis break into a synagogue, vandalize it, and plant a bomb under the pulpit. They also tear, trample, and spit on a Torah scroll, though Daniel protests. After they leave, Daniel takes the scroll and a tallit with him. The next morning, the neo-Nazis hear on the news that the bomb failed to go off because the timer froze at thirteen minutes, which the rabbi explains is a mystical number in Judaism. He says that he believes this means that God protected the synagogue. Back in his cabin, Daniel cleans and repairs the scroll, envisioning himself as the Nazi soldier in the Holocaust survivor's story. He puts on the tallit under his shirt and performs a combination of the Nazi salute and a gesture used in Jewish prayers.\n\nDrake soon approaches him with a plan to kill Manzetti, so the two ambush him outside a temple, where Daniel fires but misses. Drake sees the tallit under Daniel's shirt and realizes that he is a Jew, so Daniel shoots him and escapes. He continues to meet with Lina and Curtis, who want to start an above-ground movement to bring fascism into the political mainstream, inviting Jews, blacks, and liberals. Daniel reluctantly agrees to help them raise funds. At the meetings that follow Daniel first charms, then enrages, their potential donors with his intellectual games, leading to his eventual expulsion. When the group hears that Manzetti was killed, Lina suspects Daniel, since he proposed the assassination, but Drake is the real killer.\n\nIn the meantime, Carla comforts Daniel and the two sleep together at his home. When she sees the stolen Torah, she asks Daniel to teach her Hebrew, ostensibly for intellectual reasons. They also begin to practice Jewish rituals. He soon runs into an old friend and his fiancée, Stuart and Miriam, who invite him to a Rosh Hashanah service, assuming that he is an anti-racist skinhead. When Daniel arrives, another old friend calls him out as a racist skinhead. As he is leaving, Miriam, who works for the District Attorney, tells him that half of the people in Lina Moebius' meetings are informants for the D.A. Later she asks Daniel to record conversations at a meeting so she can help him with possible charges stemming from the Manzetti killing. He refuses because as Miriam confesses she doesn't care about the truth, she only cares about Daniel.\n\nAs Yom Kippur approaches, Daniel calls Miriam and insists on taking Stuart's place reading the Torah at the bimah on Yom Kippur. He and his friends plant a new bomb under the temple's pulpit even though they find it reinforced, limiting the explosion. When Daniel takes the pulpit the next day, he is shocked to see Carla in the congregation. He again imagines himself in the story the Holocaust survivor told him, this time as both the Nazi and the Jew. With five minutes to go, Daniel stops and tells to everyone to get out because there is a bomb, but refuses to leave himself.\n\nDaniel is shown in a mystical vision, ascending the stairs in the Jewish school he left as a child. His old teacher approaches, hoping to talk about the Binding of Isaac, and suggests that Isaac died on the mountain and was reborn in the next world. But Daniel ignores him and keeps going, up, and up, infinitely, as his teacher urges him to stop, calling out, \"There's nothing up there.\"\n\n\n\"The Believer\" received an 82% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 90 reviews; the average rating is 7.3 out of 10. The consensus states: \"Gosling commands the screen with a raw, electrifying performance.\" The film also has a score of 75 on Metacritic based on 28 reviews.\n\nJamie Russell of BBC Films said that it was \"awe-inspiring ... a late contender for one of the best films of the year—an intellectually breathtaking, profoundly moving film.\" Charlotte O'Sullivan of \"The Independent\" said, \"It's naturally thrilling...\"The Believer\" is astonishing.\" \"Time Out\" said, \"the film is driven by Gosling's revelatory performance ... arresting, prickly, vaguely funny, even—'difficult' in the best sense.\"\n\nTodd McCarthy for \"Variety\" said, \"Bean deals with the core elements of this odd, and oddly compelling, situation with admirable frankness and intelligence, but flounders around the edges. The tenets of Zampf and Moebius' political movement receive such scant attention that the scenes devoted to it are borderline ludicrous, and the masochistic impulses that seem to draw Carla to Danny—\"Hurt me!,\" she begs at the start of their first sexual encounter, and he willingly obliges—are rote and undeveloped.\"\n\nJulie Salamon for \"The New York Times\" said, \"This willfully provocative film portrait (...) offers lots of raging, vulgarity and shock but little insight into the character's psychopathology. (...) The movie's most telling moment comes when Danny confronts Holocaust survivors about why they allowed themselves to be brutalized. One of them, an old man, responds by asking, \"And what shall we learn from you, Daniel ?\" It's a good question, never answered.\n\nDavid Germain for \"The Washington Post\" said, \"Even as he commits hate crimes and becomes an anti-Jewish rabble-rouser, the youth is torn between contempt for Jewish passivity during the Holocaust and reverence for the traditions of Judaism.\"\n\nPeter Travers for \"Rolling Stone\" said, \"This is a touchy topic, notably for Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, who felt the film didn't work and has publicly said so. Without full-throttle support from the Jewish community, \"The Believer\" is on the ropes. Bean, a Conservative Jew from Philadelphia, is a screenwriter with a commercial track record, from Internal Affairs to Enemy of the State. (...) In Gosling, a Canadian actor who started at twelve as a TV Mouseketeer alongside Britney Spears before moving on to film (\"Remember the Titans\"), Bean has found the perfect actor. Gosling gives a great, dare-anything performance that will be talked of for ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45491552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45491552", "title": "The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations", "text": "The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations\n\nLes Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques (English, The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations), is a book written by Guillaume Apollinaire between 1905 and 1912, published in 1913. This was the third major text on Cubism; following \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger (1912); and André Salmon, \"Histoire anecdotique du cubisme\" (1912).\n\n\"Les Peintres Cubistes\" is illustrated with black and white photographs of works by Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Juan Gris, Marie Laurencin, Fernand Léger, Francis Picabia, Marcel Duchamp and Raymond Duchamp-Villon. Also reproduced are photographs of artists Metzinger, Gleizes, Gris, Picabia and Duchamp. In total, there are 46 halftone portraits and reproductions.\n\nPublished by , Collection \"Tous les Arts\", Paris, 1913, \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" was the only independent volume of art criticism published by Apollinaire, and represented a highly original critical source on Cubism. He elucidates the history of the Cubist movement, its new aesthetic, its origins, its development, and its various features.\nApollinaire first intended this book to be a general collection of his writings on art entitled \"Méditations Esthétiques\" rather than specifically on Cubism. In the fall of 1912 he revised the page proofs to include more material on the Cubist painters, adding the subtitle, \"Les Peintres Cubistes\". When the book went to press, the original title was enclosed in brackets and reduced in size, while the subtitle \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" was enlarged, dominating the cover. Yet \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" appears only on the half t.p. and t.p. pages, while every other page has the title \"Méditations Esthétiques\", suggesting the modification was made so late that only the title pages were reprinted.\n\nA portion of the text was translated into English and published with several images from the original book in \"The Little Review: Quarterly Journal of Art and Letters\", New York, Autumn 1922.\n\nGuillaume Apollinaire, a French poet, playwright, short story writer, novelist, and art critic, served as a decisive interface between artists and poets of the early 20th century, joining the visual arts and literary circles. Italian by birth, Polish by name (Wilhelm Albert Włodzimierz Apolinary Kostrowicki), Parisian by choice, Apollinaire was a leading figure in early modernist poetry, a permutable figure whose work echoed the Symbolists, the Cubists and foresaw the Surrealists.\n\nAs an active figure in well-established literary journals from 1902 to his death in 1918, Apollinaire played a crucial role in the development of early modernism by founding his own artistic journals, by supporting galleries and exhibitions, as a collector of avant-garde art, and as an impassioned supporter of a divers group of emerging artists. His pervasive influence on these artists is exemplified by a multitude of portraits of Apollinaire painted by artists such as Henri Rousseau, Pablo Picasso, Jean Metzinger, Louis Marcoussis, Amedeo Modigliani, Marie Laurencin, Marcel Duchamp, Maurice de Vlaminck, Giorgio de Chirico, Mikhail Larionov, Robert Delaunay, Marc Chagall, Pierre Savigny de Belay and Henri Matisse.\nAs a close friend of all the Cubists, and Marie Laurencin's lover, Apollinaire witnessed the development of Cubism firsthand. He was in close contact with Le Bateau-Lavoir and its habitués—including Max Jacob, Maurice Princet, Picasso, Braque and Metzinger. He was also in close contact with the Groupe de Puteaux (or Section d'Or), based in the western suburbs of Paris—including the Duchamp brothers, Gleizes, Picabia and again Metzinger (who associated with both groups early on).\n\nApollinaire coined several important terms of the avant-garde, such as Orphism (at the Salon de la Section d'Or in 1912) and Surrealism (concerning the ballet \"Parade\" in 1917), and was the first to adopt the term \"Cubism\" on behalf of his fellow artists (at the 1911 Salon des Indépendants, Brussels). He wrote about these and related movements such as Fauvism, Futurism, and Simultanism. But his most compellingly original stance can be found in \"Les Peintres Cubistes\", in his analysis of the new art movement: \"The new artists demand an ideal beauty, which will be, not merely the proud expression of the species, but the expression of the universe, to the degree that it has been humanized by light.\" (\"Les Peintres Cubistes\", p. 18)\n\nGuillaume Apollinaire's only book on art, \"The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations\" is an unsystematic collection of reflections and commentaries. It was written between 1905 and 1912, and ultimately published in 1913. Composed of two parts, the volume demonstrates the poetic vision of Apollinaire. The first part, \"On Painting\" (\"Sur la peinture\"), is a manifesto for the new art form, consisting of seven chapters (22 pages), of which much of the text was written in 1912 and published in \"\" the same year.\n\nThe second and larger section of the book (53 pages), under the heading \"New Painters\" (\"Peintres nouveaux\"), analyzes the work of ten artists most representative of the movement in the following order: Picasso, Braque, Metzinger, Gleizes, Laurencin, Gris, Léger, Picabia, Duchamp, and in the Appendix, Duchamp-Villon. In the section on Marie Laurencin, Apollinaire included a text a Henri Rousseau, first published in a review of the 1911 Salon des Indépendants (L'Intransigéant, 10 April 1911).\nIncluded are four reproductions of the works by each artist (with the exception of Rousseau), and portrait photographs of Metzinger, Gleizes, Gris, Picabia, and Duchamp.\n\nA landmark in the history of art criticism, this essay synthesizes the aesthetic preoccupations of not just the Cubists, but of Apollinaire himself. The volume is valued today as a work of reference and a vintage example of creative modernist writing.\n\nThis was the third attempt to define the new pictorial trend burgeoning during the years before the First World War, following \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger, 1912, and André Salmon, \"Histoire anecdotique du cubisme\" (\"Anecdotal History of Cubism\"), 1912.\n\nIn his analysis of the new art movement, Apollinaire makes a distinction between four different types of Cubism; scientific, physical, orphic and instinctive. The first, \"Scientific Cubism\", is the art of painting new ensembles with elements borrowed not from the reality of vision, but from the reality of knowledge. It is the tendency of 'pure' painting. The painters Apollinaire places in this category are: Picasso, Braque, Metzinger, Gleizes, Laurencin and Gris.\n\nThe second, \"Physical Cubism\", is the discipline of constructing painting with elements borrowed mostly from the reality of vision. Its social role is well marked, but it is not a pure art. The 'physicist' who created this trend is Le Fauconnier.\n\n\"Orphic Cubism\" is the art of painting with elements borrowed not from visual reality, but entirely created by the artist and endowed by him with a powerful reality. The works of the Orphic artists simultaneously present a pure aesthetic pleasure, a construction to the senses and a sublime meaning. This is pure art, according to Apollinaire, that includes the work of R. Delaunay, Léger, Picabia and M. Duchamp.\n\n\"Instinctive Cubism\" is, according to Apollinaire, the art of painting elements borrowed not from visual reality, but suggestive of the artist's instinct and intuition. Instinctive Cubism includes a very large number of artists. Derived from French Impressionism, the movement spans (\"is spreading\") across all of Europe.\n\nThe historical study of Cubism began in the late 1920s, drawing at first from \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" and Apollinaire's \"Les Peintres Cubistes\". It came to rely heavily on Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's book \"Der Weg zum Kubismus\" (published in 1920), which centered exclusively on the developments of Picasso, Braque, Léger, and Gris. The terms \"Analytical Cubism\" and \"Synthetic Cubism\" which subsequently emerged (overshadowing Apollinaire's classification scheme) have been widely accepted since the mid-1930s. However, both terms are historical impositions that occurred after the facts they identify. Neither phase was designated as such at the time corresponding works were created. \"If Kahnweiler considers Cubism as Picasso and Braque,\" wrote Daniel Robbins, \"our only fault is in subjecting other Cubists' works to the rigors of that limited definition.\" This interpretation of Cubism, formulated \"post facto\" as a means of understanding the works of Braque and Picasso, is difficult to apply to other Cubist's whose art fundamentally differed from the 'Analytic' or 'Synthetic' categories, compelled Kahnweiler to question their right to be called Cubists at all. According to Robbins, \"To suggest that merely because these artists developed differently or varied from the traditional pattern they deserved to be relegated to a secondary or satellite role in Cubism is a profound mistake.\"\n\nOther terms have surfaced since. In his book,\"The Cubist Epoch\", Douglas Cooper divides Cubism into three phases: \"Early Cubism\" (from 1906 to 1908), when the movement was initially developed in the ateliers of Picasso and Braque; \"High Cubism\" (from 1909 to 1914), during which time Juan Gris emerged as an important exponent (after 1911); and \"Late Cubism\" (from 1914 to 1921), the last phase of Cubism as a radical avant-garde movement. Cooper's restrictive use of these terms to distinguish the work of Braque, Picasso, Gris and Léger (to a lesser extent) implied an intentional value judgement, according to Christopher Green.\n\nThe current trend in the classification of Cubist styles reflects Apollinaire's wider view of the movement, more so than others. Cubism is once again no longer definitively attached to the art of a specific group or even a movement. It embraces vastly disparate work; applying to artists in different socio-cultural environments and settings. And despite the difficulties of classification, Cubism, as predicted by Apollinaire in 1913, has been called the first and the most influential of all movements in 20th-century art.\n\nApollinaire stressed the importance of what he perceived as virtues of the plastic arts: purity, unity, and truth; all of which would keep \"nature in subjection\". He deplored the violent attacks waged against the Cubist's preoccupation with geometry; geometrical figures being the essence of drawing. \"Geometry, the science of space, its dimensions and relations, has always determined the norms and rules of painting.\"\n\nBefore Cubism, the three dimensions of Euclidean geometry had been sufficient for artists. But according to Apollinaire, \"geometry is to the plastic arts what grammar is to the art of the writer\". Artists, just as scientists, no longer had to limit themselves to three spatial dimensions. They were guided by intuition, to preoccupy themselves with the new possibilities of spatial measurement which included the 'fourth dimension'. This fictitious realm represented the \"immensity of space eternalizing itself in all directions at any given moment\". This utopian expression stood for the aspiration and premonitions of artists who contemplated Egyptian, African, and oceanic sculptures; who meditated on various scientific works, and who lived \"in anticipation of a sublime art\".\n\nPicasso, with his planes to denote volume, \"gives an enumeration so complete\" that objects are entirely transformed, \"thanks to the effort of the spectator, who is forced to see all the elements simultaneously\". In questioning whether Picasso's art is profound rather than noble, Apollinaire answers, \"It does not dispense with the observation of nature, and acts upon us as intimately as nature itself.\"\n\nIt was Braque who, at the Salon des Indépendants of 1908, first exhibited to the public works whose geometric preoccupations began to dominate the composition. Picasso's work, though not exhibited, set the precedent. This transformation, believed Apollinaire, was in perfect harmony with the society in which the painter evolved. Braque's role was \"heroic\", his art \"peaceful and admirable\", writes the poet, \"He expresses a beauty, a beauty full of tenderness, and the pearl-like quality of his pictures irradiates our understanding. He is an angelic painter.\"\n\nMetzinger, following Picasso and Braque, was chronologically the third Cubist artist, observed Apollinaire.\nDescribing Metzinger, Apollinaire claims this 'great painter's work had not yet been fully appreciated, despite the design, composition, the contrasted lights and an overall style'. His works were \"set apart\" above and beyond many of the works of his contemporaries. \"It was then that Jean Metzinger, joining Picasso and Braque, founded the Cubist City.\"\n\nThere was \"nothing incomplete\" in the works of Metzinger. His works were the \"fruit of a rigorous logic\" writes the author. When explaining the art of our epoch, \"his work will be one of the surest documents\". Metzinger's paintings contained their own 'explanation'. For Apollinaire this was a case \"unique in the history of art\". For Apollinaire, Metzinger had purity; \"his meditations take beautiful forms whose harmony tends to approach the sublime... entirely stripped of all that was known before him. [...] Each one of his pictures contains a judgment of the universe and his entire work resembles a nocturnal firmament when it is clear, free from all clouds and trembling with adorable lights. There is nothing incomplete in his works, poetry ennobles the smallest details.\"\n\nThe works of Gleizes show \"powerful harmonies\", but Apollinaire warns of confounding his paintings with the \"theoretical cubism\" of the \"scientific painters\". Referring to the writings of Gleizes, Apollinaire cites the will of the artist to \"bring back his art to his simplest elements\".\n\nGleizes had understood the influence of Cézanne on the Cubists, writes Apollinaire. The work of Gleizes, he continues, has \"a degree of plasticity such that all the elements which constitute the individual characters are represented with the same dramatic majesty\".\n\nMajesty above all characterized the art of Gleizes, bringing a startling innovation to contemporary art, as few of the modern painters had done before. \"This majesty arouses and provokes the imagination... the immensity of things. This art is vigorous... realized by a force of the same sort as that which realized the Pyramids and the Cathedrals, the constructions in metal, the bridges and the tunnels.\"\n\nThe art of Laurencin (and women more generally) brought a \"new vision full of the joy of the universe\", an \"entirely feminine aesthetic\" writes Apollinaire. As an artist, he placed Laurencin between Picasso and Le Douanier Rousseau, not as a hierarchical indication, but as a statement of relationship. \"Her art dances, like Salome, between that of Picasso, who like a new John the Baptist bathes all the arts in a baptism of light, and that of Rousseau, a sentimental Herod.\" The author states the similarities to dance and \"rhythmic enumeration, infinitely gracious in painting\".\n\nRousseau had past away in September 1910. Apollinaire made clear the great esteem held by the Cubist painters for his works, calling Rousseau the \"Inhabitant of Delight\". It was for Apollinaire the qualities of his work that made his painting \"so charming to look at\". Few artists had been mocked during their lifetime as Rousseau, and even fewer had faced with equal calm the hail of insults. And happily, writes Apollinaire, he \"was able to find, in insults and mockeries, evidence that even the ill-intentioned could not disregard his work\".\nRousseau had painted two portraits of Apollinaire: \"I often watched him at work, and I know the care he gave to the tiniest details; he had the capacity to keep the original and definitive conception of his picture always before him until he had realized it; and he left nothing, above all, nothing essential, to chance. Its nervous draftsmanship, variety, charm, and delicacy of tones make this work's excellence. His pictures of flowers show the resources of charm and emphasis in the soul and hand of the Douanier.\"\n\nGris had \"meditated on everything modern\", painting \"to conceive only new structures\" and \"materially pure forms\". Apollinaire compares the work of Gris with the \"scientific cubism\" of Picasso, \"his only master\", a type of drawing that was geometrical individualized, \"a profoundly intellectual art, according to color a merely symbolic significance\". His works had \"purity, scientifically conceived\", and \"from this purity parallels are sure to spring\".\n\nLéger is described as a talented artist. \"I love his art because it is not scornful, because it knows no servility, and because it does not reason. I love your light colors [\"couleurs légers\"], O Fernand Léger! Fantasy does not lift you to fairylands, but it grants you all your joys.\"\n\nJust as the Impressionists and the Fauves, Picabia \"translated light into color\", arriving at \"an entirely new art\". His color was not just a \"luminous transposition\" without \"symbolic significance\". It was a \"form and light of whatever is represented\".\n\nAs in the works of Robert Delaunay, color was for Picabia \"the ideal dimension\", one that incorporated all other dimensions. Form was symbolic, while the color remained formal. It was \"a perfectly legitimate art, and surely a very subtle one\". Color was saturated with energy and prolonged in space.\n\nThe title for Picabia was intellectually inseparable from the work to which it referred, playing a role as actual objects. Analogous to Picabia's titles, real objects, \"are the pictorial arabesques in the backgrounds of Laurencin's pictures. With Albert Gleizes this function is taken by the right angles which retain light, with Fernand Léger by bubbles, with Metzinger by vertical lines, parallel to the sides of the frame cut by infrequent echelons.\" Apollinaire found equivalence in the works of all the great painters. \"It gives pictorial intensity to a painting, and this is enough to justify its legitimacy.\"\n\nIt was not a question of abstraction, but of \"direct pleasure\". Surprise played an important role. \"Can the taste of a peach be called abstract?\" mused the author. Each picture of Picabia \"has a definite existence, the limits of which are set by the title\". Picabia's paintings were so far from \"a priori\" abstractions that \"the painter can tell you the history of each one of them. \"Dance at the Spring\" is simply the expression of a plastic emotion experienced spontaneously near Naples\".\n\nTo date, Duchamp's production had been too spars and differed considerably from one painting to the next. Apollinaire hesitated to make any broad generalizations, noting rather Duchamp's apparent talent and his abandoning of \"the cult of appearances\". To free his art from all perceptions, Duchamp wrote the titles on the paintings themselves. \"This literature, which so few painters have been able to avoid, disappears from his art, but not poetry. He uses forms and colors, not to render appearances, but to penetrate the essential nature of forms and formal colors... Perhaps it will be the task of an artist as detached from aesthetic preoccupations, and as intent on the energetic as Marcel Duchamp, to reconcile art and the people.\"\n\nThe departure of sculpture from nature tends toward architecture, writes Apollinaire: \"The utilitarian end aimed at by most contemporary architects is responsible for the great backwardness of architecture as compared with the other arts. The architect, the engineer should have sublime aims: to build the highest tower, to prepare for time and ivy the most beautiful of ruins, to throw across a harbor or a river an arch more audacious than the rainbow, and finally to compose to a lasting harmony, the most powerful ever imagined by man. Duchamp-Villon had this titanic conception of architecture. A sculptor and an architect, light is the only thing that count for him; but in all the arts, also, it is only light, the incorruptible light, that counts.\"\n\nBesides the artists of whom Apollinaire writes in preceding chapters, there were other artists and writers alike attached, \"whether willingly or not\", to the Cubist movement. \"Scientific Cubism\" was defended by Ricciotto Canudo, Jacques Nayral, André Salmon, Joseph Granié, Maurice Raynal, Marc Brésil, Alexandre Mercereau, Pierre Reverdy, André Tudesq, , Georges Deniker, Jacques Villon, and Louis Marcoussis. \"Physical Cubism\" was supported in the press by the writers listed above, in addition to , Olivier Hourcade, Jean Marchand, Auguste Herbin, and Véra. \"Orphic Cubism\" was defended by Max Goth, Pierre Dumont and . Certain artists associated with \"Instinctive Cubism\" were supported by Louis Vauxcelles, René Blum (ballet), Adilphe Basler, Gustave Kahn, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, and Michel Puy. According to Apollinaire this trend included Henri Matisse, Georges Rouault, André Derain, Raoul Dufy, Auguste Chabaud, Jean Puy, Kees van Dongen, Gino Severini, and Umberto Boccioni. In addition to Duchamp-Villon, other Cubist sculptors included Auguste Agéro, Alexander Archipenko, and Constantin Brâncuși.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "290633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290633", "title": "The Object of My Affection", "text": "The Object of My Affection\n\nThe Object of My Affection is a 1998 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Nicholas Hytner and starring Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd. The film was adapted from the novel of the same name by Stephen McCauley and the screenplay was written by Wendy Wasserstein. The story concerns a pregnant New York social worker who develops romantic feelings for her gay best friend and decides to raise her child with him, and the complications that ensue.\n\nThe film was filmed in 1997 in various locations around New York City, New Jersey, and Connecticut.\n\nSocial worker Nina Borowski (Jennifer Aniston) is a bright young woman living in a cozy Brooklyn apartment. Nina attends a party given by her stepsister Constance (Allison Janney) and her husband, Sidney (Alan Alda). There Nina meets George Hanson (Paul Rudd), a young, handsome, and gay first grade teacher. Nina tells George that her stepsister is constantly trying to fix her up with somebody from higher society, completely ignoring the fact that Nina has a boyfriend, Vince (John Pankow). During the conversation, Nina offers George a room in her apartment as she has just heard from his boyfriend, Dr. Robert Joley (Tim Daly), that George is looking for somewhere to live. George, not knowing about Robert's plans, is taken aback and heartbroken, and after the party the two split up. George accepts Nina's offer and moves into her apartment.\n\nThe two soon become best friends; they watch films together and go ballroom dancing. Everything is great until Nina announces that she is pregnant. Vince, the baby's father, wants to marry her, but his constant care drives Nina crazy; she leaves him and asks George to help raise her child. For some time, they live together in her apartment in Brooklyn. Everything is perfect again until Nina finds that her love for George is growing every day, especially after he tells her he had a girlfriend in high school, leading her to believe they might have a sexual relationship.\n\nOne afternoon, George and Nina are about to have sex when George gets a phone call from Robert who tells him how much he has missed him and invites him away for the weekend. George is confused but agrees to go. Nina feels threatened and gets jealous. George and Robert do not re-establish their relationship, but George meets Paul James (Amo Gulinello), a young actor, and the two fall in love and have sex. Meanwhile, Nina is staying with Constance at a vacation mansion and is extremely moody. She has a horrible time and decides to head back home and asks George to return as well. She is mugged on the way and a friendly police officer, Louis (Kevin Carroll), gives her a ride home. Nina and George decide to invite Paul and his elderly acting mentor, Rodney, for Thanksgiving. Paul stays the night and has sex with George, resulting in a fallout between George and Nina.\n\nThe following day, they start arguing again at George's brother's wedding. Nina fully explains to George her feelings for him. George, who loves Nina as his best friend, tells her that he wants to be with Paul. A few hours later, Nina gives birth to a beautiful girl she names Molly. Vince, ecstatic, visits her in the hospital, but when he leaves to complete paperwork, Nina and George remain alone with Molly. Nina asks George when he plans to move out to which he replies that he doesn't know. She asks him to move out of her apartment before she gets home from hospital, stating that it would hurt her too much to have him stay any longer knowing that he doesn't love her.\n\nThe end of the film takes place at George's school eight years later, in which all of the characters go to see Molly in a musical production that George has directed. Nina is now in a relationship with Louis, and George is with Paul, both of them now happy. The film ends as Nina, George, and young Molly (Sarah Hyland) (who refers to George as her \"Uncle George\") walk together down the sidewalk, hand-in-hand, on their way to get coffee.\n\nThe shooting took place from June to July 1997, in New York.\n\n\"The Object of My Affection\" was released in US theaters on April 17, 1998, and took in $9,725,855 during its opening weekend, coming in at No. 2 at the box office in 1,890 theaters, averaging $5,146 per theater. The film went on to gross $29,187,243 in the United States alone, over a span of five weekends. The film continued to open in European countries throughout the fall and winter of 1998, and ultimately grossed $17,718,646 outside of the United States.\n\nCritical reaction to the film was mixed. Roger Ebert gave the film two stars, saying: Ruthe Stein of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" said the film \"occasionally borders on being too clever. But that's a small quibble about a movie that gets so much right.\"\n\nThe film currently holds a rating of 49% on the film critic aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes.\nMetacritic, which assigns a weighted average score from 1 to 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, gave the film a 51 based on 18 critics.\n\nIn efforts of the film it received a GLAAD Media award nomination for Outstanding Film (Wide Release), and won the London Critics Circle Film award for British Supporting Actor of the Year awarded to actor Nigel Hawthorne.\n\n"}
{"id": "17543518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543518", "title": "Vitreography", "text": "Vitreography\n\nVitreography is a fine art printmaking technique that uses a float glass matrix instead of the traditional matrices of metal, wood or stone. A print created using the technique is called a vitreograph. Unlike a monotype, in which ink is painted onto a smooth glass plate and transferred to paper to produce a unique work, the vitreograph technique involves fixing the imagery in, or on, the glass plate. This allows the production of an edition of prints.\n\nIn addition to being relatively inexpensive, glass is chemically inert. It does not oxidize, nor does it change or interact with the composition of printing inks, especially yellows and whites, which can turn green or gray in contact with metal plates. According to Claire Van Vliet of Janus Press, intaglio vitreographs also have an advantage over metal in that the glass plate wipes cleanly in non-image areas, allowing bright white to coincide with “black that is velvety as a mezzotint” in the finished print.\n\nAnother advantage of vitreograph printmaking is its ability to withstand the pressure of the printing press with no discernible breakdown of the imagery, even after numerous runs. Printmaker Ken Kerslake wrote, “The glass plate will last indefinitely because, unlike [one of] copper or zinc, it will always return to its original configuration no matter how much pressure is applied.” A disadvantage to this is that unwanted lines or marks on the glass plate cannot be burnished out, as they can on a zinc or copper plate. \n\nThe transparency of the glass plate can be used to advantage, in that the plate may be placed over a preliminary drawing on paper to guide the artist in creating a drawing on the plate. This is done by placing the drawing face down on a light table (to allow for the reversal of the image in printing) and placing the vitreograph plate on top of it.\nAlthough glass is unaffected by compression in the printing press, it will break under tension. For that reason, vitreographs are always printed on an etching press, whose rigid bed will support the glass plate firmly. In addition, the press bed must be level and working conditions in the print shop immaculate. A particle of grit or dirt between press bed and the plate will create a tension point that will cause the glass to crack when pressure is applied.\n\nAmerican glass artist Harvey Littleton was a tenured professor of art at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when, in June 1974, he taught a workshop in cold-working techniques for glass artists. To cold-work glass is to shape or sculpt cold (as opposed to hot or molten) glass, or to produce texture or decoration on its surface. Cold-working is done by carving, grinding or engraving glass with various tools, or by selectively blasting it with abrasives. As a result of experimenting with various resists for sandblasting, Littleton became intrigued by the possibility of printmaking from glass. He asked his colleague at the University of Wisconsin, printmaker Warrington Colescott, to ink five of the sandblasted plates from the workshop and print them onto paper in his etching press. The first plate broke under pressure, but after making some adjustments to the press, the rest of the glass plates printed “like dreamboats,” Colescott said. Editions printed from the plates looked promising, and Littleton was awarded a research grant from the University of Wisconsin to continue the development of printing from glass.\n\nIn 1976 Littleton retired from teaching and moved to Spruce Pine, North Carolina, where he set up a glass studio, reserving space for an etching press on which he continued to make vitreograph prints. A few years later, at the end of 1981, he hired a woodcut artist, Sandy Willcox, to work as a part-time printer. He encouraged her and his colleagues in glass art, including Ken Carder, Billy Bernstein, Erwin Eisch and Ann Wolff (formerly Wärff), to try their hands at vitreography. \n\nIn 1982 Littleton invited curator Jane Kessler of the Mint Museum in Charlotte, North Carolina to see the prints that were being created at Littleton Studios. Kessler was impressed by the new technique, and recommended that experienced painters and printmakers be invited to the studio to explore the medium. A grant awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts made it possible for three painters, Walter Darby Bannard, Ed Blackburn and Hollis Sigler to collaborate with two master printers, Paul Maguire of Flatrock Press and June Lambla, who had apprenticed at Crown Point Press, in the creation of prints at Littleton Studios. By this time Littleton had constructed a fully equipped printmaking studio that was separate from his glassblowing shop. Sigler visited Littleton Studios in 1985 and produced five prints; Blackburn produced five prints in 1986 and Bannard created seven prints in 1987. The project led to an exhibition at the Mint Museum in 1987 that included a catalog detailing these and other artists’ research in glass plate printmaking. Littleton continued to invite painters, printmakers, potters and glass artists to the studio to fully develop the possibilities of vitreography. Littleton Studios has published vitreograph print editions by 110 artists.\n\nVitreography was initially conceived of as an intaglio process, in which line and tone are carved, engraved or etched into the glass plate’s surface. Printing an intaglio plate involves forcing ink into the grooves and pits, and then wiping the plate’s surface with tarlatan to remove excess ink. The image is transferred to dampened paper under pressure in an etching press. \nColor intaglio prints are achieved by processing separate plates, each carrying one or more colors in proportion to the effect desired in the print. The plates are printed in succession onto paper, each carrying color and imagery that, in register with the others, combine to form the finished print.\n\nTools used to make marks in the glass include diamond point scribers, a flexible shaft power tool with a diamond bit and a sandblaster. Littleton Studios printer Sandy Willcox and her husband David Lewis, a painter, are credited with discovering that white lithograph ink is a versatile resist for sandblasting intaglio glass plates. They found that the viscous white ink, applied to the plate freely with a brush or evenly with a roller, can be drawn into by removing ink with wooden styluses, needles, or paintbrushes. When the drawing is complete, the plate is taken to the sandblasting booth wet. There, the initial onslaught of sand sticks to those areas of the image where ink remains (forming an even more resistant barrier) while etching those parts of the glass revealed by the hand of the artist. After the plate is cleaned of ink, the parts of the plate that received the blast can be seen to have minute pits that hold ink; the areas that were protected by the white litho ink remain smooth and are wiped clean before printing. Contact paper and tape are also used on the plates as a sandblasting resist; those materials create imagery with a hard-edged, stencil effect. Diluted hydrofluoric acid can be brushed onto the plate to create areas of very delicate tone. \n\nA second method of creating imagery on the vitreograph plate is waterless lithography (sometimes called “siligraphy”). The process was originally developed by 3M Company for commercial printing in the late 1960s; it was purchased and subsequently refined by Toray Industries of Japan. The commercial process is a type of offset printing that uses photo-sensitized silicone rubber plates. The waterless lithography process employed in fine art printmaking has been credited to Nik Semenoff, who developed it for use on metal plates.\nDonald Furst demonstrated his adaptation of the silicone method to glass plate printmaking in June, 1995, and the Littleton Studios adopted his process for their work with glass plate lithography. The image is drawn onto a ground glass matrix with water-soluble art materials, over which is applied a film of common caulking silicone thinned with synthetic turpentine. Master printer Mark Mahaffey has found that frosted Mylar can be used as a printing matrix as well as 3/8” float glass to create a vitreograph using waterless lithography. \nAfter the silicone layer cures, the original drawing is gently washed from the plate with water, dried, and inked with a roller. The silicone layer protects the non-printing areas of the image while allowing open areas (those free of silicone) to accept ink. Like intaglio vitreographs, waterless lithographs on glass plates are transferred to paper in an etching press.\n\nIn 1998 Littleton invited three artists, Bonnie Pierce Lhotka, Karin Schminke and Dorothy Simpson Krause (collectively known as the Digital Atelier), to investigate combining digital imagery with vitreography processes. The artists printed digital images onto clear transfer film using a large format inkjet printer, transferring them to paper in the etching press, along with glass plate imagery processed in the intaglio and/or siligraph techniques.\n\nSince 1981 over 100 artists have worked in collaboration with Littleton Studios to publish vitreograph prints. They include Harvey Littleton's colleagues in glass art, Dale Chihuly, Erwin Eisch, Shane Fero, Stanislav Libenský, Paul Stankard, Therman Statom, Sybren Valkema and Ann Wolff. Littleton also invited painters, sculptors and printmakers to Littleton Studios to explore the possibilities and limitations of vitreography. Painters Walter Darby Bannard, Louisa Chase, Herb Jackson, Mildred Thompson, Emilio Vedova and John Wilde; potters Cynthia Bringle and John Glick, sculptors Sergei Isupov and Italo Scanga and printmakers Glen Alps, Ken Kerslake, Karen Kunc, Judith O’Rourke and Dan Welden are a few of the artists whose work has been published by the studio.\n\nThe first public exhibition of Littleton’s own intaglio prints from glass plates was at the Brooks Memorial Art Museum in Memphis, Tennessee in 1975. There the prints were shown along with Littleton’s glass sculptures. The same was the case with Ann Wolff’s glass plate intaglios, which were included in a show of her glass artworks, drawings and copper plate intaglios in 1986 at Holsten Galleries in Palm Beach. \n\nThe first group exhibition of the prints to include works by painters and printmakers, as well as glass artists, was at Western Carolina University in Cullowhee, North Carolina in 1986. Seventeen artists were represented in the exhibition, all of whom had created their prints at Littleton Studios. \n\nThe Mint Museum mounted another group exhibition in 1987 titled Luminous Impressions: Prints from Glass Plates. It featured vitreographs by nineteen artists and included prints by glass artist Dale Chihuly and California printmaker Connor Everts. Everts is credited with coining the term “vitreography” to describe printmaking from glass plates. Another early group exhibition took place in 1988 at the Kunstsammlungen der Veste Coburg in Coburg, Germany. Titled \"Prints from Glass Plates - Vitreographs,\" the show featured works by Americans and two Germans: Erwin Eisch and Ann Wolff. \n\nOther notable group exhibitions include \"Vitreographs: Collaborative Works from the Littleton Studio\" which was exhibited at The Hunter Museum of American Art in Chattanooga, Tennessee and The University Gallery at The University of Florida at Gainesville (both in 1993); “Vitreographs” at The Portland Art Museum in Portland, Oregon in 1997 and “Vitreographs: Collaborative Works from Littleton Studio” at the Center for the Arts in Vero Beach, Florida in 1998.\n\nRecent group exhibitions include \"Reflections on a Legacy: Vitreographs from Littleton Studios\" at Appalachian State University in Boone, North Carolina (2006) and \"Harvey K. Littleton + Friends: A Legacy of Transforming Object, Image & Idea,\" at Western Carolina University in Cullowhee, North Carolina (2006–07). The latter was an exhibition of the work of 75 artworks by seventeen artists, and included vitreographs alongside works in glass, clay, ceramic, painting and book art. Curator Martin DeWitt wrote in the catalog accompanying the exhibition that “Not only is Littleton credited to be the father of the contemporary studio glass movement in the United States…he is also inventor and progenitor of the versatile and unique vitreographic printmaking process.” \n\nVitreograph prints can be found in collections in the United States, including the Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Art, San Francisco; Burroughs Chapin Art Museum, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio; The Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, New York; Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida; Milwaukee Art Museum, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Museum of Fine Arts, New Britain Museum of American Art, New Britain Connecticut which holds an archive of over 500 vitreographs, St. Petersburg, Florida; Portland Art Museum, Portland, Oregon; Sherwin Miller Museum of Jewish Art, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, DC; Tweed Museum of Art, Duluth, Minnesota and the Vero Beach Museum of Art, Vero Beach, Florida. The Fine Art Museum of Western Carolina University holds an archive of 723 vitreograph editions published at Littleton Studios.\n"}
{"id": "1354165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354165", "title": "Wakker Prize", "text": "Wakker Prize\n\nThe Wakker Prize (in German: \"Wakkerpreis\", in French \"Prix Wakker\", in Italian \"Premio Wakker\") is awarded annually by the Swiss Heritage Society to a Municipality of Switzerland for the development and preservation of its architectural heritage.\n\nAt the beginning, the prize honoured municipalities which did special needs for preservation of the old towns. Recently, the prize also honours municipalities that develop their townscapes on a specific leading point. This might be an estimated use of an old industrial facility or a successful combination between old and new basic structure of a building.\n\nIn 2005, the prize was given to the Swiss Federal Railways, rather than a municipality, because of the jubilee of the Swiss Heritage Society.\n\nThe prize is named for Henri-Louis Wakker.\n\nTo get this prize, municipalities have to follow the named criteria:\n\n"}
{"id": "31916048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31916048", "title": "Willamette Writers", "text": "Willamette Writers\n\nWillamette Writers is a 501-c-3 nonprofit writing group based in the U.S. state of Oregon, with nearly 1,600 members, and chapters in Portland, Eugene, Salem, Corvallis, Central Point, and Newport. The group has a house (The Willamette Writers Cynthia Whitcomb House for writers) in West Linn that serves as an office, and a place for meetings, critique groups and workshops. Additionally it has rooms that members can rent to write in.\n\nWillamette Writers aims to provide and encourage a creative environment and support system for current and aspiring writers. Since beginning in 1965, Willamette Writers has provided meeting places for the exchange of ideas and information and has initiated programs designed to help writers increase skills related to the craft of writing. Each chapter has monthly meetings during most of the year with speakers, workshops, and more. Members receive a monthly newsletter, \"The Willamette Writer,\" containing news from the organization, writing tips and other information for writers.\n\n\n\n"}
