{"id": "171019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171019", "title": "1994 in film", "text": "1994 in film\n\nThis is a list of films released in 1994. The top worldwide grosser was \"The Lion King\", becoming the highest-grossing Walt Disney Feature Animation film of all-time, although it was slightly overtaken at the North American domestic box office by \"Forrest Gump\", which won the Academy Award for Best Picture and a second consecutive Academy Award for Best Actor for Tom Hanks.\n\nMetro-Goldwyn-Mayer celebrated its 70th Anniversary in 1994.\n\nThe top ten films released in 1994 by worldwide gross are as follows:\n\n Felix the Cat: The Movie (re-release) New World Pictures\n\nU.S.A. unless stated\n\nA\nB\nC\nD\n\nE\nF\nG\nH\nI\nJ-K\n\nL\nM\nN\nO\nP–Q\n\nR\nS\nT\nU–V\nW\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56296730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296730", "title": "A+BE", "text": "A+BE\n\nA+BE, Architecture and the Built Environment is an open access series that publishes PhD theses of students of the Delft University of Technology's Graduate School of Architecture and the Built Environment, covering subjects such as: architecture, architectural engineering, green building, heritage, history, urbanism, real estate, housing, geomatics, geodesign, and management. The series was started in 2011 as part of the university's policy on open access and start of the Graduate School of Architecture and the Built Environment. The series is abstracted and indexed in Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "32478154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32478154", "title": "A Philosophical View of Reform", "text": "A Philosophical View of Reform\n\nA Philosophical View of Reform is a major prose work by Percy Bysshe Shelley written in 1819-20 and first published in 1920 by Oxford University Press. The political essay is Shelley's longest prose work.\n\nShelley composed \"A Philosophical View of Reform\" between November, 1819 and 20 May 1820, meant to address political developments in England at that time. He advocated non-violence and a moderate response to the repressive measures imposed by the British government. One of the events he addressed was the Peterloo Massacre, which occurred on 16 August 1819, in St. Peter's Field near Manchester, where a peaceful demonstration seeking parliamentary reform was attacked by militia.\n\nThe bookseller Richard Carlile had been found guilty of blasphemy by a jury in November, 1819 for printing an edition of \"The Age of Reason\" (1794-6) by Thomas Paine. The “Six Acts” had been promulgated in December which placed restrictions on public gatherings and freedom of the press.\n\nIt was during this unstable political period in England in late 1819 when Shelley started writing \"A Philosophical View of Reform\". Shelley told John and Maria Gisborne on 6 November: \"I have deserted the odorous gardens of literature to journey across the great sandy desert of Politics.\"\n\nShelley proposed five reforms:\n\n\nShelley opposed revolution, advocating instead gradual change through non-violence. He argued that individual and institutional reform went hand in hand. He maintained that poets, writers, and philosophers would stimulate reforms of the social institutions that would benefit everyone in society.\n\nShelley informed his publisher Charles Ollier on 19 December 1819 that he sought \"A Philosophical View of Reform\" \"to be an instructive and readable book, appealing from the passions to the reason of men\", informing him that he would not finish it \"this season\".\n\nOn 26 May 1820 he asked Leigh Hunt if he could find a publisher for the work: \"Do you know any bookseller who wd publish for me an octavo volume entitled 'A philosophical View of Reform'. It is boldly but temperately written – & I think readable – It is intended for a kind of standard book for the philosophical reformers.\"\n\nMary Shelley had a transcript made of the manuscript with plans to publish the work. The political essay remained unpublished, however, until 1920 when it appeared for the first time in print in an edition published by Humphrey Milford, Oxford University Press, with an introduction and appendix by Thomas William Rolleston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41471229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41471229", "title": "Anjumani-shuara", "text": "Anjumani-shuara\n\nAnjumani-shuara (Persian - \"Poets council\") was a literary council of the 19th century in Azerbaijan.\nIt was first held by Sheykhali khan Kangarli in 1831 in Ordubad. From 1870-80 the council was led by Haji agha Fagir Ordubadi. Later this mission was obliged to Mohammad Taghi Sidgi. The council’s activity operated with different intervals and there were lots of well-known writers and poets. After the death of Fagir and shifting of Sidgi in Nakhchivan the council was weakened and suspended its activities in 1890-1895.\n\n"}
{"id": "22696045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22696045", "title": "Another Way (film)", "text": "Another Way (film)\n\nAnother Way (), is a 1982 Hungarian film directed by Károly Makk about an affair between two women. It is based on a semi-autobiographical novella \"Another Love\" (\"Törvényen belül\") by Erzsébet Galgóczi (1930–89), who co-wrote the screenplay with Makk. It won the Best Actress award at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival for Jadwiga Jankowska-Cieślak and was nominated for the Palme d'Or.\n\nThe film was a notable cult film for lesbian audiences in Cold War Hungary and Poland.\n\nAt Christmas 1958 in Hungary, the body of Éva Szalánczky, an apparent murder victim, is recovered from a forest. In hospital, Livia Horváth, bandaged around her neck is recuperating, and is told that she will be unable to live her life as before; the reason is not made explicit.\n\nThe lesbian Éva, already known to the authorities for her private life, begins a new job as a journalist at \"The Truth\", a weekly periodical, and meets the married Livia when the two women share an office. The attraction is immediate, but Livia is initially resistant. Late at night, while kissing in darkness on a park bench, the women are discovered by a policeman, who warns Livia that her husband and employer will be informed if she is found in the same uncompromising position again. Éva is arrested, but soon released.\n\nAt a collective farm, Éva finds the authorities have blocked an attempt at a more democratic way of organising their cooperative venture. Her understanding editor, a supporter of the short-lived government of the recently executed Imre Nagy, refuses to publish the article, and she resigns before she is sacked. Éva and Livia have a brief affair. The previously mild Dönci Horváth, an army officer, shoots his wife while she in the bath after her confession of love for Éva. Livia survives and her husband is imprisoned for the offence. At the hospital, Livia rejects Éva, who then journeys to the countryside. At night, Éva is challenged to stop walking by border guards, but is shot dead when she fails to do.\n\n"}
{"id": "6549167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6549167", "title": "Apollo 11 missing tapes", "text": "Apollo 11 missing tapes\n\nThe Apollo 11 missing tapes were those that were recorded from Apollo 11's slow-scan television (SSTV) telecast in its raw format on telemetry data tape at the time of the first moon landing in 1969 and subsequently lost. The data tapes were recorded as a backup in case the live television broadcasts failed for any reason.\n\nIn order to broadcast the SSTV transmission on standard television, NASA ground receiving stations performed real-time scan conversion to the NTSC television format. The moonwalk's converted video signal was broadcast live around the world on July 21, 1969 (2:56 UTC). At the time, the NTSC broadcast was recorded on many videotapes and kinescope films. Many of these low-quality recordings remain intact. The SSTV signal was recorded on telemetry data tapes as a backup in the event that real-time conversion and broadcast failed. As the real-time broadcast worked, was shown and widely recorded, preservation of the backup video was not deemed a priority in the years immediately following the mission. In the early 1980s NASA's Landsat program was facing a severe data tape shortage and it is likely the tapes were erased and reused at this time.\n\nA team of retired NASA employees and contractors tried to find the tapes in the early 2000s but was unable to do so. The search was sparked when several still photographs appeared in the late 1990s that showed the superior-looking raw SSTV transmission on ground station monitors. The research team conducted a multi-year investigation in the hopes of finding the most pristine and detailed video images of the moonwalk. If copies of the original SSTV format tapes were to be found, more modern digital technology could make a higher-quality conversion, yielding better images than those originally seen. The researchers concluded that the tapes containing the raw unprocessed Apollo 11 SSTV signal were erased and reused by NASA in the early 1980s, following standard procedure at the time. \n\nAlthough the researchers never found the telemetry tapes they were looking for, they did discover the best visual quality NTSC videotapes as well as super 8 movie film taken of a video monitor in Australia, showing the SSTV transmission before it was converted. These visual elements were processed in 2009, as part of a NASA approved restoration project of the first moonwalk. At a 2009 news conference in Washington, D.C., the research team released its findings regarding the tapes' disappearance. They also partially released newly enhanced footage obtained during the search. Lowry Digital completed the full moonwalk restoration project in late 2009.\n\nApollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first two people on the Moon. Neil Armstrong became the first person to step onto the lunar surface on July 21, 1969, at 02:56 UTC; Buzz Aldrin joined him about 20 minutes later.\n\nOnly limited radio bandwidth was available to transmit the video signal from the lunar landings, which needed to be multiplexed with other communication and telemetry channels beamed from the Lunar Module, back to Earth. Therefore, Apollo 11's moonwalk video was transmitted from the Apollo TV camera in a monochrome SSTV format at 10 frames per second (fps) with 320 lines of resolution, progressively scanned. These SSTV signals were received by radio telescopes at Parkes Observatory, the Goldstone tracking station, and Honeysuckle Creek tracking station. The camera's video format was incompatible with existing NTSC, PAL, and SECAM broadcast television standards. It needed to be converted before it could be shown on broadcast television networks. This live conversion was crude, essentially using a video camera pointing at a high-quality 10-inch TV monitor.\n\nSince the camera's scan rate was much lower than the approximately 30 fps for NTSC video, the television standard used in North America at the time, a real-time scan conversion was needed to be able to show its images on a regular TV set. NASA selected a scan converter manufactured by RCA to convert the black-and-white SSTV signals from the Apollo 7, 8, 9, and 11 missions.\n\nWhen the Apollo TV camera radioed its images, the ground stations received its raw unconverted SSTV signal and split it into two branches. One signal branch was sent unprocessed to a fourteen-track analog data tape recorder where it was recorded onto fourteen-inch diameter reels of one-inch-wide analog magnetic data tapes at per second. The other raw SSTV signal branch was sent to the RCA scan converter where it would be processed into an NTSC broadcast television signal.\n\nThe RCA scan converter operated on an optical conversion principle. The conversion process started when the signal was sent to a high-quality 10-inch video monitor where a conventional RCA TK-22 television camera—using the NTSC broadcast standard of 525 scanned lines interlaced at 30 fps—merely re-photographed its screen. The monitor had persistent phosphors, that acted as a primitive framebuffer. An analog disk recorder, based on the Ampex HS-100 model, was used to record the first field from the camera. It then fed that field, and an appropriately time-delayed copy of the first field, to the NTSC Field Interlace Switch (encoder). The combined original and copied fields created the first full 525-line interlaced frame and the signal was then sent to Houston. The disk recorder repeated this sequence five more times, until the camera imaged the next SSTV frame. The converter then repeated the whole process with each new frame downloaded from space in real-time. In this way, the RCA converter produced the extra 20 frames per second needed to produce flicker-free images to the world's television broadcasters.\n\nThis live conversion was crude compared to early-21st-century electronic digital conversion techniques. Image degradation was unavoidable with this system as the monitor and camera's optical limitations significantly lowered the original SSTV signal's contrast, brightness and resolution. If the scan converter's settings were incorrectly set, as they were at the Goldstone station during the first few minutes of Apollo 11's moonwalk, the negative impact on the image could be very obvious. When Armstrong first came down the Lunar Module's ladder, he was barely visible because the contrast and the vertical phase were not set correctly by the scan converter operator. The video seen on home television sets was further degraded by the very long and noisy analog transmission path. The converted signal was sent by satellite from the three receiving ground stations to Houston, Texas. Then the network pool feed was sent by microwave relay to New York, where it was broadcast live to the United States and the world. Because all of these links were analog, each one added additional noise and distortion to the signal.\n\nThis low-quality optical conversion of the Apollo 11 moonwalk video images—made with a TV camera taking pictures of a video monitor—is what was widely recorded in real-time onto kinescope film and NTSC broadcast-quality 2-inch quadruplex videotape. Recordings of this conversion were not lost and have long been available to the public (along with much higher quality video from later Apollo missions). If the one inch data tapes, with the raw unprocessed Apollo 11 SSTV signals on them, were to be found, modern digital technology would allow for significantly better conversion and processing. The quality would be similar to what a few technicians and others saw at SSTV receiving ground stations before it got converted to NTSC.\n\nIn 2005, an amateur Super 8 movie with about 15 minutes of Apollo 11 images was rediscovered. The footage had been taken by Ed von Renouard at Honeysuckle Creek tracking station during or immediately after the Apollo 11 moonwalk. The images show mainly the scan converted monitor and briefly the slow scan monitor. This is some of the best quality recording of brief segments of the Apollo 11 moonwalk available. The images are available on DVD.\n\nNews that these analog data tapes were missing emerged on August 5, 2006 when the printed and online versions of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" published a story with the title \"One giant blunder for mankind: how NASA lost moon pictures\". The missing tapes were among over 700 boxes of magnetic data tapes recorded throughout the Apollo program which have not been found. On August 16, 2006 NASA announced its official search saying, \"The original tapes may be at the Goddard Space Flight Center ... or at another location within the NASA archiving system\", \"NASA engineers are hopeful that when the tapes are found they can use today's digital technology to provide a version of the moonwalk that is much better quality than what we have today.\" NASA also had ongoing research reasons for finding these higher resolution tapes, as the Constellation program then planned shared some similar tasks with the original Apollo program.\n\nThe Goddard Center's Data Evaluation Laboratory has the only known surviving piece of equipment which can read the missing tapes and was set to be closed in October 2006, causing some fear that, even if the tapes were later found, there would be no ready way to read and copy them. However, equipment that could read the tapes was maintained.\n\nOn November 1, 2006 \"Cosmos\" magazine reported that some NASA telemetry tapes from the Apollo project era had been found in a small marine science laboratory within the main physics building at Curtin University in Perth, Western Australia. One of these tapes was sent to NASA for analysis. It carried no video but did show that if any of the tapes are ever found, data could likely be read from them.\n\nNASA held a news conference at the Newseum, in Washington, D.C. regarding the missing tapes on July 16, 2009 – the 40th anniversary of Apollo 11's launch from Cape Kennedy. The multinational research team looking into the missing tapes – mostly retired engineers who had worked on the original broadcast in 1969 — was represented at the event by Richard Nafzger from the Goddard Space Flight Center, and Stanley Lebar, the former lead engineer at Westinghouse that developed the Apollo Lunar Camera and the Apollo Color Camera. They concluded that the data tapes – with the SSTV signal – were shipped from Australia to Goddard and then routinely erased and reused a few years later. Australian backup tapes were also erased after Goddard received the reels, following the procedures established by NASA. The SSTV signal was recorded on telemetry data tapes mostly as a backup in case the real-time conversion and broadcast around the world failed. Since the real-time broadcast conversion worked, and was widely recorded on both videotape and film, the backup video was not deemed important at the time. In the early 1980s, NASA's Landsat program was facing a severe data tape shortage and it is likely that during this period the tapes were erased and reused.\n\nThere was also documentation that the Apollo 11 moonwalk SSTV was recorded at the Parkes, Australia facility on modified Ampex 2-inch helical scan VTRs. The VTRs were modified by Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Labs to record 320-line slow-scan video directly to the videotape without converting it. It was confirmed that these tapes were shipped to Johns Hopkins University, but could not be found by the search team.\n\nNafzger stated that they did find several post-conversion copies of the broadcast that were higher quality than what was previously seen by the public. Their findings included: a videotape recorded in Sydney after the conversion but before the satellite transmission around the world; videotape from CBS News archives (direct from NASA, without commentary); and kinescopes at Johnson Space Center. At the news conference, it was mentioned that Lowry Digital would complete enhancing and restoring the tapes. Mike Inchalik, president of Lowry Digital, mentioned that they would only restore the video and not remove defects (such as reflections that looked like flag poles) that their software could remove. A few short clips were shown at the news conference, showing their improved quality. NASA released some partially restored samples on their website after the news conference. The full restoration of the footage, about three hours long, was completed in December 2009.\n\nSome other footage from Australian ground station feeds showing SSTV video of Armstrong's descent and first steps surfaced through John Sarkissian's efforts. Highlights of this fully enhanced video were shown to the public for the first time at the Australian Geographic Society Awards on October 6, 2010, where Buzz Aldrin was the guest of honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29676532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29676532", "title": "Aurora Triumphans", "text": "Aurora Triumphans\n\nAurora Triumphans () is a painting by Evelyn De Morgan, featuring the Roman goddess of dawn Aurora, that breaks the shackles of night. Aurora lies naked in the lower right corner, covered with carefully draped ropes of pink roses. Taking up two-thirds of the painting, there are three red-winged angels with trumpets and gold tunics. Set in opposition to Aurora, in the lower left corner is a dark-robed Night, who swirls away a black cloak. In 1886 the painting was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in London.\n\nThe flowers strewn around Aurora and the pale glow of her naked body are set in opposition to the shadowy drapery of Night. Aurora's frontal, open pose reverses the anonymity of Night, who is turned away from the viewer.\nThe painting currently belongs to the Russell-Cotes Museum in Bournemouth. Merton Russell-Cotes' son Herbert bought it for the museum in around 1922 thinking that it was a Burne-Jones original after an unscrupulous art dealer had painted over the signature with Burne-Jones' initials to get a higher price.\n\nAccording to art historian Elise Lawton Smith, Aurora's \"lethargic pose ... may signify her transitional state between night/matter and light/spirit. She will move beyond torpor toward a new energy, as heralded by the three angels blowing their trumpets. Thus her power (or \"triumph\", as suggested by the title) derives not from her mythological status, but from her role as a spiritualist metaphor.\"\n"}
{"id": "3252988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252988", "title": "Auður Jónsdóttir", "text": "Auður Jónsdóttir\n\nAuður Jónsdóttir (born 30 March 1973) is one of the most accomplished authors writing in Icelandic today. Her novels have aroused interest in Iceland as well as abroad for their rare blend of incisive candor and humor. She won the Icelandic Literary Prize for The People in the Basement and the Icelandic Women’s Literature Prize for Secretaries to the Spirits. Both of these novels were nominated for the Nordic Council's Literature Prize.\n\nAuður's debut novel, Bliss (Stjórnlaus Lukka), was nominated for the Icelandic Literary Prize in 1998. Since then her output has included further novels, as well as books for children and teenagers, most notably Skrýtnastur er maður sjálfur (One self is the strangest of all, 2002), a portrait of her grandfather, the Nobel prize-winning author Halldor Laxness.\nThe People in the Basement (Fólkið í kjallaranum) won the 2004 Icelandic Literary Prize followed by a nomination for Nordic Council's Literature Prize in 2006. It came out and was very well received in Denmark and Sweden in the same year.\n\nDeposit (Tryggðarpantur) was published in Reykjavik in November 2006 and was nominated to the Icelandic Literary Prize. It came out in Denmark the year after.\nWintersun (Vetrarsól), was published by btb Random House (Germany) as \"Jenseits des Meeres liegt die ganze Welt\" in 2011. It harvested great reviews in Der Spiegel and Hamburger Abendblatt among others. It was subsequently published by Querido (Netherlands) in 2012.\n\nIn 2009 Auður worked at the Reykjavik City Theater as an in-house writer for one year resulting in a play being adapted from The People in the Basement in the following year. The show was a huge success with critics and audience alike and Auður won the Icelandic Theatre awards (Griman) for the adaption from the book along with Olafur Egilsson.\nSecretaries to the Spirits (Ósjálfrátt) published in 2012, was the best selling Icelandic fine literature fiction of the Christmas season. It won the Fjöruverðlaun (Women's literary award) and was nominated for the Icelandic Literary Prize as well as the Nordic Council's Literature Prize. The publishing rights were sold to btb Random House (Germany), Tiderne Skifter (Denmark) and Presse de la Cité (France).\n\nAuður latest novel, Grand Mal (Stóri skjálfti), was published last autumn in Reykjavík. It became Auður's most successful novel to date and gathered a huge following among Icelandic readers of all ages, strengthening Auður's position as an important writers of her generation.\n\nThe People In The Basement, Deposit and Grand Mal are now all being adapted for the silver screen.\nOther work by Auður includes international news articles, essays and two books for children with reading disabilities published by The National Centre for Educational Materials. Auður now divides her time between Berlin and Reykjavik with her family.\n\nNovels\n\nShort stories\n\nChildren's books\n\nPlays\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53336123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53336123", "title": "Butuan Ivory Seal", "text": "Butuan Ivory Seal\n\nThe Butuan Ivory Seal or BIS (; ), is an ivory stamp or seal stamp or a privy seal associated with a Rhinoceros Ivory Tusk , dated 9th–12th century, was found in Libertad, Butuan in Agusan del Norte in southern Philippines. Inscribed on the seal is the word \"Butban\" in stylized Kawi. The script has a similarity to the Tagalog script. \"Butban\", was presumed to stand for Butwan or Butuan, since the letters “b” and “w” were frequently interchanged. The discovery of the seal proved the theory that pre-colonial Filipinos, or at least in coastal areas, used seals on paper. Before the discovery of the seal, it was only thought that ancient Filipinos used bamboo, metal, bark, and leaves for writing. The presence of paper documents in the classical era of the Philippines is also backed by a research of Otley Beyer stating that Spanish friars 'boasted' about burning ancient Philippine documents with \"suyat\" inscriptions, one of the reasons why ancient documents from the Philippines are almost non-existent in present time. The ivory seal is now housed at the National Museum of the Philippines.\n\nAnother archaeological piece with ancient inscription, the Butuan Ivory Seal was recovered in the 1970s by pot hunters in a prehistoric shell midden site in Ambangan, Libertad, Butuan City in Agusan del Norte. Made of rhinoceros ivory tusk, the object could have been used to stamp documents or goods during trading.\n\nThe ivory seal as well as other archaeological materials recovered in Ambangan archaeological sites are proof that Rajahnate of Butuan was an important trading center whose official seal marked the source of commodities it produced and exported.\n\nDated 1002 A.D., the seal could have been used for documentation in trading, Butuan was the center of trade and commerce in North eastern Mindanao since 10th century.\n\nThere were other notable discoveries like the Ivory Seal and the Silver Paleograph, Gold and tools for gold processing of ornaments have also been recovered from a village site Over a hundred clay crucibles and tools for the processing of gold items were discovered in the area, leading to the conclusion that an extensive gold ornaments industry was located in these areas as far back as a thousand years ago. Altogether, these data demonstrate that Butuan was a thriving international trading port a thousand years ago. This site has a tremendous historical impact in the Asian region.\n\n"}
{"id": "2226500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2226500", "title": "Chiwara", "text": "Chiwara\n\nA Chiwara (also Chi wara, Ci Wara, or Tyi Wara; ; ) is a ritual object representing an antelope, used by the Bambara ethnic group in Mali. The Chiwara initiation society uses Chiwara masks, as well as dances and rituals associated primarily with agriculture, to teach young Bamana men social values as well as agricultural techniques.\n\nChiwara masks are categorized in three ways: horizontal, vertical, or abstract. In addition, Chiwara can be either male or female. Female Chiwara masks are denoted by the presence of a baby antelope and straight horns. Male Chiwara masks have bent horns and a phallus. The sex of a Chiwara mask is much clearer on horizontal and vertical masks while abstract masks tend to be difficult to classify.\n\nThe appearance of the Chiwara form varies greatly both by region and time produced. Specific master wood carvers also subtly modified the accepted (or even religiously mandated) local forms, forming a distinct \"signature\" or \"school\" of Chiwara figures. These regional variations have been roughly assigned the stylistic categories above. Thus \"the Bougouni / Southern region style\" are an amalgam of several animal motifs combined in the same work, in an abstract style; \"the Bamako / Northern region style\" is usually of the horizontal style; \"the Segu/ Northern region style\" (the heartland of the Bambara Empire) matches the vertical style with the unique \"cut out\" triangular body motif of the males. Other regional styles have been proposed, including \"the Sikasso region style\", with a thin, delicate, vertical form within almost human, snoutless face.\n\nIn Bambara, \"chi\" \"wara\" means \"laboring\" \"wild animal\", and is a representation of Bambara mythos about the creation of farming.\n\nWhile there are several versions of the story, the discovery of agriculture is credited to the hero Chi Wara, a half antelope, half human figure born from the union of the sky goddess Mousso Koroni and an earth spirit in the shape of a cobra. The Chi Wara came to earth to teach humans to sow crops, and thus is honored at both sowing and harvest festivals.\n\nThe Chi Wara itself is usually represented as a Roan Antelope with an almost human face, but also takes shapes of other creatures and emblems of farming. The hero descends from the sky goddess, and thus represents the sun, its body is often elongated and short legged to represent the aardvark who burrows into the earth like a farmer. Its high horns echo the stalks of millet, and it stands on a dancer clad in a mass of raffia stalks to represent both flowing water and a bountiful harvest. The zig-zag patterns echo the movement of the sun across the sky, and the penis of the male figure stands low to the ground, fertilizing the earth.\nThe Chi Wara figures always appear as a male/female pair, combining the elements of fertility of humans with fertility of the earth. The female figure usually carries a young antelope on her back, and is said to represent human beings carried by the Chi Wara hero, as well as a newborn human carried on a mother's back.\n\nAs farmers of the upper Niger river savanna, the blessing of agriculture is of central importance to Bambara society. These traditions survive in part because the Bambara were one of the last cultures in the area to embrace Islam, after the fall of the Bambara Empire in the late 19th century.\nBambara culture has traditionally had a strict set of age and caste cofraternities (\"ton\"/\"jo\"/\"jow\"), and the \"chi wara ton\" society is one of the more important. It gathers all young adult males of the \"Soli\" age group to work the fields at clearing, sowing and harvest, when the greatest number of laborers is needed. Secret teachings of the \"chi wara ton\" pass the needed skills for this work, upon which the very survival of the community depends.\n\nThe \"chi wara ton\" is also the only major Bambara society which includes both sexes. Women's labor is needed for agriculture, just as both sexes are needed for human reproduction.\n\nThe Chi Wara is always danced with each wooden figure attached to a basket on the dancer's head, and the body covered in a huge pile of raffia. Often the face is obscured with raffia that has been colored or decorated, and the dancer carries a long staff. The figures are always in one or more male/female pairs, with the female usually dancing behind the male, fanning him and spreading his powers into the gathered community. The Male figures leap to represent the antelope, and then scratch the earth with their staves or horns as the Chi Wara teaches humans to cultivate crops. In some communities the Mousso Koroni figure also appears. Initiated children wear a \"Sogono Kuni\" (\"Little antelope head\"), which is quite rare to find in museums. \n\nAfrican sculptural forms became fashionable amongst European artists and collectors at the beginning of the Twentieth century, and the Chiwara, especially in its more abstract forms, became one of the icons of what Europeans called \"Primitive Art\". The artist Guillaume Apollinaire and collector Paul Guillaume published images of the Chiwara in their \"Sculptures nègres\" in 1917, while Picasso, Braque, and Les Fauves became fascinated with African sculpture and masks in general, and the Chiwara figure in particular.\n\nA vertical, male, semi-abstracted Chiwara figure was included in the 1935 Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibit \"African Negro Art\", and the \"Masterpieces of African Art\" at the Brooklyn Museum in 1954, (as well as shows in London and Paris) shows which were highly influential to western artists and collectors. Variations of its triangual cut-out pattern are echoed in mid-20th century Modernist art, and its outline remains one of the most recognizable of African art forms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22896443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22896443", "title": "Eight Views of Pyongyang", "text": "Eight Views of Pyongyang\n\nThe Eight Views of Pyangyang are a collection of beautiful scenery of Pyongyang, Korea, that are alleged to have been handed down from the time of the Joseon dynasty, in the Korean poetry and paintings.\n\nThey were modeled after the Eight Views of Xiaoxiang of the Song Dynasty of China.\n\n1. Admiring spring from Ulmildae (\"Ŭlmil Sangch'un\", 을밀상춘/)<br>\n2. Enjoying the moon at Pubyokru (\"Pubyŏk Wanwŏl\", 부벽완월/)<br>\n3. Monk searching at Yongmyongsa (\"Yŏngmyŏng Samsŭng\", 영명삼승/)<br>\n4. Seeing off travelers at Pothong River (\"Pot'ong Songgaek\", 보통송객/)<br>\n5. Boating on the Taedong River (\"Kŏmun Pŏpch'u\", 거문범추/)<br>\n6. Listening to rain at the lotus pond (\"Ryŏndang Ch'ŏngu\", 련당청우/)<br>\n7. Evening kingfishers at Mt. Ryongak (\"Ryongsan Manch'wi\", 룡산만취/)<br>\n8. Spring floods at Mat'an (\"Mat'an Ch'ungyŏng\", 마탄춘경/)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10138914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10138914", "title": "Elissa Down", "text": "Elissa Down\n\nElissa Down is an Australian filmmaker. In 1999 and 2000 Elissa was nominated for Young Film-maker of the year at the WA Screen Awards.\n\nHer major works are a number of award-winning short films, \"Summer Angst\", \"The Cherry Orchard\", \"Her Outback\", \"The Bathers\", \"Pink Pyjamas\", \"HMAS Unicorn\" and \"Samantha Stewart, aged fourteen\". They have been screened at numerous festivals including Tampere, Locarno Aix-en-Provence, Montecatini, Milan, San Francisco Indie, St Kilda, Brisbane, Revelation, Women on Women, POV and Tropfest. These shorts have also been screened in theatres and broadcast nationally and overseas. Elissa was one of Australia's upcoming artists featured in the In Progress spread in Vogue (2005).\n\nElissa Down's first feature film, the semi-autobiographical, \"The Black Balloon\" was released in Australian cinemas 6 March 2008. It stars Rhys Wakefield, Gemma Ward, Luke Ford, Erik Thomson and Academy Award Nominee Toni Collette. The Film was partially based on herself and family. The world premiere was at the Berlin International Film Festival in Germany in February 2008, where the film received a Crystal Bear as the best feature-length film in the \"Generation 14plus\" category. On 6 December 2008 Elissa Down was awarded the AFI Best DIrection in Film Award and AFI Best Original Screenplay Award for the Black Balloon. The film also won the L'Oreal Paris AFI Award for Best FIlm.\n\nShe holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Curtin University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35005007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35005007", "title": "En attendant les hommes", "text": "En attendant les hommes\n\nEn attendant les hommes is a 2007 documentary film by Katy Léna N'diaye about women muralists in Oualata, Mauritania. In this town on the far edge of the Sahara desert, three women practice traditional painting, and decorate the walls of the town. In a society apparently dominated by tradition, religion and men, these women unreservedly express themselves and comment freely on the relationship between men and women.\n"}
{"id": "51058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51058", "title": "Feminist literary criticism", "text": "Feminist literary criticism\n\nFeminist literary criticism is literary criticism informed by feminist theory, or more broadly, by the politics of feminism. It uses the principles and ideology of feminism to critique the language of literature. This school of thought seeks to analyze and describe the ways in which literature portrays the narrative of male domination by exploring the economic, social, political, and psychological forces embedded within literature. This way of thinking and criticizing works can be said to have changed the way literary texts are viewed and studied, as well as changing and expanding the canon of what is commonly taught. It is used a lot in Greek myths.\n\nTraditionally, feminist literary criticism has sought to examine old texts within literary canon through a new lens. Specific goals of feminist criticism include both the development and discovery female tradition of writing, and rediscovering of old texts, while also interpreting symbolism of women's writing so that it will not be lost or ignored by the male point of view and resisting sexism inherent in the majority of mainstream literature. These goals, along with the intent to analyze women writers and their writings from a female perspective, and increase awareness of the sexual politics of language and style were developed by Lisa Tuttle in the 1980s, and have since been adopted by a majority of feminist critics.\n\nThe history of feminist literary criticism is extensive, from classic works of nineteenth-century women authors such as George Eliot and Margaret Fuller to cutting-edge theoretical work in women's studies and gender studies by \"third-wave\" authors. Before the 1970s—in the first and second waves of feminism— feminist literary criticism was concerned with women's authorship and the representation of women's condition within literature; in particular the depiction of fictional female characters. In addition, feminist literary criticism is concerned with the exclusion of women from the literary canon, with theorists such as Lois Tyson suggesting that this is because the views of women authors are often not considered to be universal ones.\n\nAdditionally, feminist criticism has been closely associated with the birth and growth of queer studies. Modern feminist literary theory seeks to understand both the literary portrayals and representation of both women and people in the queer community, expanding the role of a variety of identities and analysis within feminist literary criticism.\n\nFeminist scholarship has developed a variety of ways to unpack literature in order to understand its essence through a feminist lens. Scholars under the camp known as Feminine Critique sought to divorce literary analysis away from abstract diction-based arguments and instead tailored their criticism to more “grounded” pieces of literature (plot, characters, etc.) and recognize the perceived implicit misogyny of the structure of the story itself. Others schools of thought such as gynocriticism- which is considered a 'female' perspective on women's writings - uses a historicist approach to literature by exposing exemplary female scholarship in literature and the ways in which their relation to gender structure relayed in their portrayal of both fiction and reality in their texts. Gynocriticism was introduced during the time of second wave feminism. Elaine Showalter suggests that feminist critique is an “ideological, righteous, angry, and admonitory search for the sins and errors of the past,” and says gynocriticism enlists “the grace of imagination in a disinterested search for the essential difference of women’s writing.”\n\nMore contemporary scholars attempt to understand the intersecting points of femininity and complicate our common assumptions about gender politics by accessing different categories of identity (race, class, sexual orientation, etc.) The ultimate goal of any of these tools is to uncover and expose patriarchal underlying tensions within novels and interrogate the ways in which our basic literary assumptions about such novels are contingent on female subordination. In this way, the accessibility of literature broadens to a far more inclusive and holistic population. Moreover, works that historically received little or no attention, given the historical constraints around female authorship in some cultures, are able to be heard in their original form and unabridged. This makes a broader collection of literature for all readers insofar as all great works of literature are given exposure without bias towards a gender influenced system.\n\nWomen have also begun to employ anti-patriarchal themes to protest the historical censorship of literature written by women. The rise of decadent feminist literature in the 1990s was meant to directly challenge the sexual politics of the patriarchy. By employing a wide range of female sexual exploration and lesbian and queer identities by those like Rita Felski and Judith Bennet, women were able attract more attention about feminist topics in literature.\n\nSince the development of more complex conceptions of gender and subjectivity and third-wave feminism, feminist literary criticism has taken a variety of new routes, namely in the tradition of the Frankfurt School's critical theory, which analyzes how the dominant ideology of a subject influences societal understanding. It has also considered gender in the terms of Freudian and Lacanian psychoanalysis, as part of the deconstruction of existing relations of power, and as a concrete political investment. The more traditionally central feminist concern with the representation and politics of women's lives has continued to play an active role in criticism. More specifically, modern feminist criticism deals with those issues related to the perceived intentional and unintentional patriarchal programming within key aspects of society including education, politics and the work force.\n\nWhen looking at literature, modern feminist literary critics also seek ask how feminist, literary, and critical the critique practices are,with scholars such as Susan Lanser looking to improve both literature analysis and the analyzer's own practices to be more diverse.\n\nWhile the beginning of more mainstream feminist literary criticism is typically considered during second-wave feminism, there are multiple texts prior to that era that contributed greatly to the field. Feminist literary criticism can be traced back to medieval times, with some arguing that Geoffrey Chaucer’s Wife of Bath could be an example of early feminist literally critics. Additionally, the period considered First wave feminism also contributed extensively to literature and women's presence within it. For example,1929's A Room of One's Own by Virginia Woolf is undoubtedly considered one of these formative texts. In it, Woolf argues that in order to write creatively and be critically successful, a woman must be able to own her own space and financial stability. And though the basis of the plot is around a Woolf speaking at a conference for women's literature, she speculates that there is still a long way to go for women and so-called 'women's issues' in creative space, especially based on the differences in educational quality Woolf observed between men and women.\n\nModern feminist literary criticism finds most of its roots in the 1960s second-wave feminist movements. Beginning with the interrogation of male-centric literature that portrayed women in a demeaning and oppressed model, theorist such as Mary Ellman, Kate Millet and Germaine Greer challenged past imaginations of the feminine within literary scholarship. Within second-wave feminism, three phases can be defined: the feminine phase, the feminist phase, and the female phase. During the feminine phase, female writers adhered to male values. In the feminist phase, there was a theme of criticism of women's role in society. And in the female phase, it was now assumed that women's works were valid, and the works were less combative than in the feminist phase.\n\nSusan Lanser suggested changing the name of feminist literary criticism to “critical literary feminism” to change the focus from the criticism to the feminism, and points out that writing such works requires “consciousness of political context.” In a similar vein, Elaine Showalter became a leading critic in the gynocritical method with her work \"A Literature of their Own\" in 1977. By this time, scholars were not only interested in simply demarcating narratives of oppression but also creating a literary space for past, present and future female literary scholars to substantiate their experience in a genuine way that appreciates the aesthetic form of their works.\n\nAdditionally, Black literary feminist scholars began to emerge, in the post-Civil Rights era of the United States, as a response to the masculine-centric narratives of Black empowerments began to gain momentum over female voices. Although not a ”critical” text, \"The Black Woman: An Anthology\", edited by Cade (1970) is seen as essential to the rise of Black literary criticism and theory. It’s compilation of poems, short stories and essays gave rise to new institutionally supported forms of Black literary scholarship. The literary scholarship also included began with the perception of Black female writers being under received relative to their talent. The Combahee River Collective released what is called one of the most famous pieces in Black literary scholarship known as \"A Black Feminist Statement\" (1977), which sought to prove that literary feminism was an important component to black female liberation.\n\nIn 1977 Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar published The Madwoman in the Attic, an analysis of women's poetry and prose, and how it fits into the larger feminist literary canon. This publication has become a staple of feminist criticism and has expanded the realm of publications considered to be feminist works, especially in the 19th century. The book specifically argues that women have largely been considered in two distinct categories by men in academia, monsters or angels. Gilbert and Gubar argued that being trapped in these categories regulated women writers to specific areas of literature and writing, leaving the rest open only to men, and causing a distinct anxiety in women's writers to stay specifically within those categories or be ridiculed. Gilbert and Gubar's specific focus on literary criticism in the realm of poetry and other short pieces has expanded the possibilities of feminist literary contributions today, as they were previously seen as less valid than longer works. Today, writers like Gloria E. Anzaldúa have been able to contribute to the feminist canon, while still working with writing forms other than full-sized novels.\n\nIn the 1980s, Hazel Carby, Barbara Christian, bell hooks, Nellie McKay, Valerie Smith, Hortense Spillers, Eleanor Traylor, Cheryl Wall and Sheryl Ann Williams all contributed heavily to the Black Feminist Scholarship of the period. During that same time, Deborah E. McDowell published \"New Directions for Black Feminist Criticism\", which called for a more theoretical school of criticism versus the current writings, which she deemed overly practical. In this essay McDowell also extensively discussed black women's portrayal in literature, and how it came across as even more negative than white women's portrayal. As time moved forward, the theory began to disperse in ideology. Many decided to shift towards the nuanced psychological factors of the Black experience and further away from broad sweeping generalizations. Others began to connect their works to the politics of lesbianism. Some decided to analyze the Black experience through their relationship to the Western world. Regardless, these scholars continue to employ a variety of methods to explore the identity of Black feminism in literature.\n\nFrench scholars such as Julia Kristeva, Hélène Cixous, Luce Irigaray and Bracha L. Ettinger introduced psychoanalytic discourses into their work by way of Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan as a way to truly “get to the root” of feminine anxieties within text to manifest broader societal truths about the place of women., Current feminist scholars in the field of literature include Hortense Spillers, Nancy Armstrong, Annette Kolodny and Irene Tayler who all come from a variety of backgrounds who use their own nuanced and subjective experiences to inform their understanding of feminist literature. Currently, several university scholars all employ the usage of literary feminism when critiquing texts. The mainstreaming of this school has given academia an extremely useful tool in raising questions over the gender relationships within texts.\n\nAs with other aspects of feminist theory, over the course of the second half of twentieth century feminist literary criticism has expanded to include a significantly broader spectrum of identities under the umbrella term of 'feminism.' Third wave feminist theory and beyond has striven to include more identities and aspects of intersectionality, and feminist literary criticism has followed suit. Third wave feminism and feminist literary criticism is concerned more with the intersection of race and other feminist concerns. As a result, the variety and nature of texts examined has grown to include more texts from transnational perspective, while still maintaining its roots in analyzing how male dominated society effects the interpretation and creation of literature. At the same time, new feminist literary critics examine the universal images used by women writers to uncover the unconscious symbolism women have used to describe themselves, their world, female society across time and nationalities to uncover the specifically feminine language in literature. New Feminist literature and criticism minimize the focus on male influences and disruptions in a woman's text by socio-political hegemony to better uncover the universal unconscious of the female mind in its own context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10671", "title": "Friedrich Nietzsche", "text": "Friedrich Nietzsche\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (; ; 15 October 1844 – 25 August 1900) was a German philosopher, cultural critic, composer, poet, philologist, and a Latin and Greek scholar whose work has exerted a profound influence on Western philosophy and modern intellectual history. He began his career as a classical philologist before turning to philosophy. He became the youngest ever to hold the Chair of Classical Philology at the University of Basel in 1869 at the age of 24. Nietzsche resigned in 1879 due to health problems that plagued him most of his life; he completed much of his core writing in the following decade. In 1889 at age 44, he suffered a collapse and afterward, a complete loss of his mental faculties. He lived his remaining years in the care of his mother until her death in 1897 and then with his sister Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche. Nietzsche died in 1900.\n\nNietzsche's body of work touched a wide range of topics, including art, philology, history, religion, tragedy, culture and science. His early inspiration was drawn from figures such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Richard Wagner and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. His writing spans philosophical polemics, poetry, cultural criticism and fiction while displaying a fondness for aphorism and irony. Prominent elements of his philosophy include his radical critique of truth in favor of perspectivism; his genealogical critique of religion and Christian morality and his related theory of master–slave morality; his aesthetic affirmation of existence in response to the \"death of God\" and the profound crisis of nihilism; his notion of the Apollonian and Dionysian; and his characterization of the human subject as the expression of competing wills, collectively understood as the will to power. He also developed influential concepts such as the \"\" and the doctrine of eternal return. In his later work, he became increasingly preoccupied with the creative powers of the individual to overcome social, cultural and moral contexts in pursuit of new values and aesthetic health.\n\nNietzsche was explicitly opposed to antisemitism and nationalism, although his sister attempted to associate his work with fascism and Nazism.\n\nNietzsche's thought enjoyed renewed popularity in the 1960s and his ideas have since had a profound impact on 20th and early-21st century thinkers across philosophy—especially in schools of continental philosophy such as existentialism, postmodernism and post-structuralism—as well as art, literature, psychology, politics and popular culture.\n\nBorn on 15 October 1844, Nietzsche grew up in the small town of Röcken, near Leipzig, in the Prussian Province of Saxony. He was named after King Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia, who turned 49 on the day of Nietzsche's birth (Nietzsche later dropped his middle name Wilhelm). Nietzsche's parents, Carl Ludwig Nietzsche (1813–1849), a Lutheran pastor and former teacher; and (1826–1897), married in 1843, the year before their son's birth. They had two other children: a daughter, Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche, born in 1846; and a second son, Ludwig Joseph, born in 1848. Nietzsche's father died from a brain ailment in 1849; Ludwig Joseph died six months later at age two. The family then moved to Naumburg, where they lived with Nietzsche's maternal grandmother and his father's two unmarried sisters. After the death of Nietzsche's grandmother in 1856, the family moved into their own house, now Nietzsche-Haus, a museum and Nietzsche study centre.\nNietzsche attended a boys' school and then a private school, where he became friends with Gustav Krug, Rudolf Wagner and Wilhelm Pinder, all of whom came from highly respected families.\n\nIn 1854, he began to attend Domgymnasium in Naumburg. Because his father had worked for the state (as a pastor) the now-fatherless Nietzsche was offered a scholarship to study at the internationally recognized Schulpforta (the claim that Nietzsche was admitted on the strength of his academic competence has been debunked: his grades were nowhere near the top of the class). He transferred and studied there from 1858 to 1864, becoming friends with Paul Deussen and Carl von Gersdorff. He also found time to work on poems and musical compositions. Nietzsche led \"Germania\", a music and literature club, during his summers in Naumburg. At Schulpforta, Nietzsche received an important grounding in languages—Greek, Latin, Hebrew, and French—so as to be able to read important primary sources; he also experienced for the first time being away from his family life in a small-town conservative environment. His end-of-semester exams in March 1864 showed a 1 in Religion and German; a 2a in Greek and Latin; a 2b in French, History, and Physics; and a \"lackluster\" 3 in Hebrew and Mathematics.\n\nWhile at Pforta, Nietzsche had a penchant for pursuing subjects that were considered unbecoming. He became acquainted with the work of the then almost-unknown poet Friedrich Hölderlin, calling him \"my favorite poet\" and composing an essay in which he said that the mad poet raised consciousness to \"the most sublime ideality.\" The teacher who corrected the essay gave it a good mark but commented that Nietzsche should concern himself in the future with healthier, more lucid, and more \"German\" writers. Additionally, he became acquainted with Ernst Ortlepp, an eccentric, blasphemous, and often drunken poet who was found dead in a ditch weeks after meeting the young Nietzsche but who may have introduced Nietzsche to the music and writing of Richard Wagner. Perhaps under Ortlepp's influence, he and a student named Richter returned to school drunk and encountered a teacher, resulting in Nietzsche's demotion from first in his class and the end of his status as a prefect.\nAfter graduation in September 1864, Nietzsche commenced studies in theology and classical philology at the University of Bonn with hope of becoming a minister. For a short time he and Deussen became members of the Burschenschaft \"Frankonia\". After one semester (and to the anger of his mother), he stopped his theological studies and lost his faith. As early as his 1862 essay \"Fate and History\", Nietzsche had argued that historical research had discredited the central teachings of Christianity, but David Strauss's \"Life of Jesus\" also seems to have had a profound effect on the young man. In addition, Ludwig Feuerbach's \"The Essence of Christianity\" influenced young Nietzsche with its argument that people created God, and not the other way around. In June 1865, at the age of 20, Nietzsche wrote to his sister Elisabeth, who was deeply religious, a letter regarding his loss of faith. This letter contains the following statement:\nHence the ways of men part: if you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth, then inquire...\nNietzsche subsequently concentrated on studying philology under Professor Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl, whom he followed to the University of Leipzig in 1865. There, he became close friends with his fellow student Erwin Rohde. Nietzsche's first philological publications appeared soon after.\n\nIn 1865, Nietzsche thoroughly studied the works of Arthur Schopenhauer. He owed the awakening of his philosophical interest to reading Schopenhauer's \"The World as Will and Representation\" and later admitted that Schopenhauer was one of the few thinkers whom he respected, dedicating the essay \"\" in the \"Untimely Meditations\" to him.\n\nIn 1866, he read Friedrich Albert Lange's \"History of Materialism\". Lange's descriptions of Kant's anti-materialistic philosophy, the rise of European Materialism, Europe's increased concern with science, Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, and the general rebellion against tradition and authority intrigued Nietzsche greatly. Nietzsche would ultimately argue the impossibility of an evolutionary explanation of the human aesthetic sense.\n\nIn 1867, Nietzsche signed up for one year of voluntary service with the Prussian artillery division in Naumburg. He was regarded as one of the finest riders among his fellow recruits, and his officers predicted that he would soon reach the rank of captain. However, in March 1868, while jumping into the saddle of his horse, Nietzsche struck his chest against the pommel and tore two muscles in his left side, leaving him exhausted and unable to walk for months. Consequently, Nietzsche turned his attention to his studies again, completing them in 1868 and meeting with Richard Wagner for the first time later that year.\n\nIn part because of Ritschl's support, Nietzsche received a remarkable offer in 1869 to become professor of classical philology at the University of Basel in Switzerland. He was only 24 years old and had neither completed his doctorate nor received a teaching certificate (\"habilitation\"). He was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Leipzig, again with Ritschl's support.\n\nDespite the fact that the offer came at a time when he was considering giving up philology for science, he accepted. To this day, Nietzsche is still among the youngest of the tenured Classics professors on record.\n\nNietzsche's 1870 projected doctoral thesis, \"Contribution toward the Study and the Critique of the Sources of Diogenes Laertius\" (\"Beiträge zur Quellenkunde und Kritik des Laertius Diogenes\"), examined the origins of the ideas of Diogenes Laërtius. Though never submitted, it was later published as a \"Gratulationsschrift\" (congratulatory publication) at Basel.\n\nBefore moving to Basel, Nietzsche renounced his Prussian citizenship: for the rest of his life he remained officially stateless.\n\nNevertheless, Nietzsche served in the Prussian forces during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–1871) as a medical orderly. In his short time in the military, he experienced much and witnessed the traumatic effects of battle. He also contracted diphtheria and dysentery. Walter Kaufmann speculates that he might also have contracted syphilis at a brothel along with his other infections at this time. On returning to Basel in 1870, Nietzsche observed the establishment of the German Empire and Otto von Bismarck's subsequent policies as an outsider and with a degree of skepticism regarding their genuineness. His inaugural lecture at the university was \"\". Nietzsche also met Franz Overbeck, a professor of theology who remained his friend throughout his life. Afrikan Spir, a little-known Russian philosopher responsible for the 1873 \"Thought and Reality\", and Nietzsche's colleague the famed historian Jacob Burckhardt, whose lectures Nietzsche frequently attended, began to exercise significant influence on him during this time.\n\nNietzsche had already met Richard Wagner in Leipzig in 1868 and later Wagner's wife, Cosima. Nietzsche admired both greatly and during his time at Basel frequently visited Wagner's house in Tribschen in Lucerne. The Wagners brought Nietzsche into their most intimate circle—including Franz Liszt, of whom Nietzsche colloquially described: \"Liszt or the art of running after women!\". Nietzsche enjoyed the attention he gave to the beginning of the Bayreuth Festival. In 1870, he gave Cosima Wagner the manuscript of \"The Genesis of the Tragic Idea\" as a birthday gift. In 1872, Nietzsche published his first book, \"The Birth of Tragedy\". However, his colleagues within his field, including Ritschl, expressed little enthusiasm for the work in which Nietzsche eschewed the classical philologic method in favor of a more speculative approach. In his polemic \"Philology of the Future\", Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff dampened the book's reception and increased its notoriety. In response, Rohde (then a professor in Kiel) and Wagner came to Nietzsche's defense. Nietzsche remarked freely about the isolation he felt within the philological community and attempted unsuccessfully to transfer to a position in philosophy at Basel instead.\nIn 1873, Nietzsche began to accumulate notes that would be posthumously published as \"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\". Between 1873 and 1876, he published four separate long essays: \"David Strauss: the Confessor and the Writer\", \"On the Use and Abuse of History for Life\", \"Schopenhauer as Educator\" and \"Richard Wagner in Bayreuth\". These four later appeared in a collected edition under the title \"Untimely Meditations\". The essays shared the orientation of a cultural critique, challenging the developing German culture along lines suggested by Schopenhauer and Wagner. During this time in the circle of the Wagners, he met Malwida von Meysenbug and Hans von Bülow. He also began a friendship with Paul Rée, who in 1876 influenced him into dismissing the pessimism in his early writings. However, he was deeply disappointed by the Bayreuth Festival of 1876, where the banality of the shows and baseness of the public repelled him. He was also alienated by Wagner's championing of \"German culture\", which Nietzsche felt a contradiction in terms as well as by Wagner's celebration of his fame among the German public. All this contributed to his subsequent decision to distance himself from Wagner.\n\nWith the publication in 1878 of \"Human, All Too Human\" (a book of aphorisms ranging from metaphysics to morality to religion to gender studies), a new style of Nietzsche's work became clear, highly influenced by Afrikan Spir's \"Thought and Reality\" and reacting against the pessimistic philosophy of Wagner and Schopenhauer. Nietzsche's friendship with Deussen and Rohde cooled as well. In 1879, after a significant decline in health, Nietzsche had to resign his position at Basel. Since his childhood, various disruptive illnesses had plagued him, including moments of shortsightedness that left him nearly blind, migraine headaches, and violent indigestion. The 1868 riding accident and diseases in 1870 may have aggravated these persistent conditions, which continued to affect him through his years at Basel, forcing him to take longer and longer holidays until regular work became impractical.\n\nLiving off his pension from Basel and aid from friends, Nietzsche travelled frequently to find climates more conducive to his health and lived until 1889 as an independent author in different cities. He spent many summers in Sils Maria near St. Moritz in Switzerland. He spent his winters in the Italian cities of Genoa, Rapallo, and Turin and the French city of Nice. In 1881, when France occupied Tunisia, he planned to travel to Tunis to view Europe from the outside but later abandoned that idea, probably for health reasons. Nietzsche occasionally returned to Naumburg to visit his family, and, especially during this time, he and his sister had repeated periods of conflict and reconciliation.\n\nWhile in Genoa, Nietzsche's failing eyesight prompted him to explore the use of typewriters as a means of continuing to write. He is known to have tried using the Hansen Writing Ball, a contemporary typewriter device. In the end, a past student of his, Heinrich Köselitz or Peter Gast, became a sort of private secretary to Nietzsche. In 1876, Gast transcribed the crabbed, nearly illegible handwriting of Nietzsche for the first time with Richard Wagner in Bayreuth. He subsequently transcribed and proofread the galleys for almost all of Nietzsche's work from then on. On at least one occasion on 23 February 1880, the usually poor Gast received 200 marks from their mutual friend, Paul Rée. Gast was one of the very few friends Nietzsche allowed to criticize him. In responding most enthusiastically to \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", Gast did feel it necessary to point out that what were described as \"superfluous\" people were in fact quite necessary. He went on to list the number of people Epicurus, for example, had to rely on even to supply his simple diet of goat cheese.\n\nTo the end of his life, Gast and Overbeck remained consistently faithful friends. Malwida von Meysenbug remained like a motherly patron even outside the Wagner circle. Soon Nietzsche made contact with the music-critic Carl Fuchs. Nietzsche stood at the beginning of his most productive period. Beginning with \"Human, All Too Human\" in 1878, Nietzsche published one book or major section of a book each year until 1888, his last year of writing; that year, he completed five.\n\nIn 1882, Nietzsche published the first part of \"The Gay Science\". That year he also met Lou Andreas-Salomé, through Malwida von Meysenbug and Paul Rée.\n\nSalomé's mother took her to Rome when Salomé was 21. At a literary salon in the city, Salomé became acquainted with Paul Rée. Rée proposed marriage to her, but she instead proposed that they should live and study together as 'brother and sister', along with another man for company, where they would establish an academic commune. Rée accepted the idea, and suggested that they be joined by his friend Nietzsche. The two met Nietzsche in Rome in April 1882, and Nietzsche is believed to have instantly fallen in love with Salome, as Rée had done. Nietzsche asked Rée to propose marriage to Salome, which she rejected. She had been interested in Nietzsche as a friend, but not as a husband. Nietzsche nonetheless was content to join together with Rée and Salome touring through Switzerland and Italy together, planning their commune. The three traveled with Salomé's mother through Italy and considered where they would set up their \"Winterplan\" commune. This commune was intended to be set up in an abandoned monastery, but no suitable location was found. On 13 May, in Lucerne, when Nietzsche was alone with Salome, he earnestly proposed marriage to her again, which she rejected. He nonetheless was happy to continue with the plans for an academic commune.\n. After discovering the situation, Nietzsche's sister Elizabeth became determined to get Nietzsche away from the \"immoral woman\". \nNietzsche and Salomé spent the summer together in Tautenburg in Thuringia, often with Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth as a chaperone. Salomé reports that he asked her to marry him on three separate occasions and that she refused, though the reliability of her reports of events has come into question. Arriving in Leipzig, (Germany) in October, Salomé and Rée separated from Nietzsche after a falling-out between Nietzsche and Salomé, in which Salomé believed that Nietzsche was desperately in love with her.\n\nWhile the three spent a number of weeks together in Leipzig in October 1882, the following month Rée and Salome ditched Nietzsche, leaving for Stibbe without any plans to meet again. Nietzsche soon fell into a period of mental anguish, although he continued to write to Rée, stating \"We shall see one another from time to time, won't we?\" In later recriminations, Nietzsche would blame on separate occasions the failure in his attempts to woo Salome both on Salome, Rée, and on the intrigues of his sister (who had written letters to the family of Salome and Rée to disrupt the plans for the commune). Nietzsche wrote of the affair in 1883, that he now felt \"genuine hatred for my sister.\"\n\nAmidst renewed bouts of illness, living in near-isolation after a falling out with his mother and sister regarding Salomé, Nietzsche fled to Rapallo, where he wrote the first part of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" in only ten days.\nBy 1882, Nietzsche was taking huge doses of opium, but he was still having trouble sleeping. In 1883, while staying in Nice, he was writing out his own prescriptions for the sedative chloral hydrate, signing them \"Dr. Nietzsche\".\n\nAfter severing his philosophical ties with Schopenhauer (who was long dead and never met Nietzsche) and his social ties with Wagner, Nietzsche had few remaining friends. Now, with the new style of \"Zarathustra\", his work became even more alienating, and the market received it only to the degree required by politeness. Nietzsche recognized this and maintained his solitude, though he often complained about it. His books remained largely unsold. In 1885, he printed only 40 copies of the fourth part of \"Zarathustra\" and distributed only a fraction of these among close friends, including Helene von Druskowitz.\n\nIn 1883, he tried and failed to obtain a lecturing post at the University of Leipzig. It was made clear to him that, in view of his attitude towards Christianity and his concept of God, he had become effectively unemployable by any German university. The subsequent \"feelings of revenge and resentment\" embittered him: \"And hence my rage since I have grasped in the broadest possible sense what wretched means (the depreciation of my good name, my character, and my aims) \"suffice\" to take from me the trust of, and therewith the possibility of obtaining, pupils.\"\n\nIn 1886, Nietzsche broke with his publisher Ernst Schmeitzner, disgusted by his antisemitic opinions. Nietzsche saw his own writings as \"completely buried and unexhumeable in this anti-Semitic dump\" of Schmeitzner—associating the publisher with a movement that should be \"utterly rejected with cold contempt by every sensible mind\". He then printed \"Beyond Good and Evil\" at his own expense. He also acquired the publication rights for his earlier works and over the next year issued second editions of \"The Birth of Tragedy\", \"Human, All Too Human\", \"Daybreak\", and \"The Gay Science\" with new prefaces placing the body of his work in a more coherent perspective. Thereafter, he saw his work as completed for a time and hoped that soon a readership would develop. In fact, interest in Nietzsche's thought did increase at this time, if rather slowly and hardly perceptibly to him. During these years Nietzsche met Meta von Salis, Carl Spitteler, and Gottfried Keller.\n\nIn 1886, his sister Elisabeth married the antisemite Bernhard Förster and travelled to Paraguay to found Nueva Germania, a \"Germanic\" colony—a plan Nietzsche responded to with mocking laughter. Through correspondence, Nietzsche's relationship with Elisabeth continued through cycles of conflict and reconciliation, but they met again only after his collapse. He continued to have frequent and painful attacks of illness, which made prolonged work impossible.\n\nIn 1887, Nietzsche wrote the polemic \"On the Genealogy of Morality\". During the same year, he encountered the work of Fyodor Dostoyevsky, to whom he felt an immediate kinship. He also exchanged letters with Hippolyte Taine and Georg Brandes. Brandes, who had started to teach the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard in the 1870s, wrote to Nietzsche asking him to read Kierkegaard, to which Nietzsche replied that he would come to Copenhagen and read Kierkegaard with him. However, before fulfilling this promise, he slipped too far into illness. In the beginning of 1888, Brandes delivered in Copenhagen one of the first lectures on Nietzsche's philosophy.\n\nAlthough Nietzsche had previously announced at the end of \"On the Genealogy of Morality\" a new work with the title \"The Will to Power: Attempt at a Revaluation of All Values\", he eventually seems to have abandoned this idea and instead used some of the draft passages to compose \"Twilight of the Idols\" and \"The Antichrist\" in 1888.\n\nHis health seemed to improve and he spent the summer in high spirits. In the fall of 1888, his writings and letters began to reveal a higher estimation of his own status and \"fate\". He overestimated the increasing response to his writings, however, especially to the recent polemic, \"The Case of Wagner\". On his 44th birthday, after completing \"Twilight of the Idols\" and \"The Antichrist\", he decided to write the autobiography \"Ecce Homo\". In its preface—which suggests Nietzsche was well aware of the interpretive difficulties his work would generate—he declares, \"Hear me! For I am such and such a person. Above all, do not mistake me for someone else.\" In December, Nietzsche began a correspondence with August Strindberg and thought that, short of an international breakthrough, he would attempt to buy back his older writings from the publisher and have them translated into other European languages. Moreover, he planned the publication of the compilation \"Nietzsche contra Wagner\" and of the poems that made up his collection \"Dionysian-Dithyrambs\".\n\nOn 3 January 1889, Nietzsche suffered a mental breakdown. Two policemen approached him after he caused a public disturbance in the streets of Turin. What happened remains unknown, but an often-repeated tale from shortly after his death states that Nietzsche witnessed the flogging of a horse at the other end of the Piazza Carlo Alberto, ran to the horse, threw his arms up around its neck to protect it, and then collapsed to the ground.\n\nIn the following few days, Nietzsche sent short writings—known as the \"Wahnzettel\" (\"Madness Letters\")—to a number of friends including Cosima Wagner and Jacob Burckhardt. Most of them were signed \"Dionysos\", though some were also signed \"der Gekreuzigte\" meaning \"the crucified one\". To his former colleague Burckhardt, Nietzsche wrote: \"I have had Caiaphas put in fetters. Also, last year I was crucified by the German doctors in a very drawn-out manner. Wilhelm, Bismarck, and all anti-Semites abolished.\" Additionally, he commanded the German emperor to go to Rome to be shot and summoned the European powers to take military action against Germany, that the pope should be put in jail and that he, Nietzsche, created the world and was in the process of having all anti-Semites shot dead.\n\nOn 6 January 1889, Burckhardt showed the letter he had received from Nietzsche to Overbeck. The following day, Overbeck received a similar letter and decided that Nietzsche's friends had to bring him back to Basel. Overbeck travelled to Turin and brought Nietzsche to a psychiatric clinic in Basel. By that time Nietzsche appeared fully in the grip of a serious mental illness, and his mother Franziska decided to transfer him to a clinic in Jena under the direction of Otto Binswanger. In January 1889, they proceeded with the planned release of \"Twilight of the Idols\", by that time already printed and bound. From November 1889 to February 1890, the art historian Julius Langbehn attempted to cure Nietzsche, claiming that the methods of the medical doctors were ineffective in treating Nietzsche's condition. Langbehn assumed progressively greater control of Nietzsche until his secretiveness discredited him. In March 1890, Franziska removed Nietzsche from the clinic and, in May 1890, brought him to her home in Naumburg. During this process Overbeck and Gast contemplated what to do with Nietzsche's unpublished works. In February, they ordered a fifty-copy private edition of \"Nietzsche contra Wagner\", but the publisher C. G. Naumann secretly printed one hundred. Overbeck and Gast decided to withhold publishing \"The Antichrist\" and \"Ecce Homo\" because of their more radical content. Nietzsche's reception and recognition enjoyed their first surge.\n\nIn 1893, Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth returned from Nueva Germania in Paraguay following the suicide of her husband. She read and studied Nietzsche's works and, piece by piece, took control of them and their publication. Overbeck eventually suffered dismissal and Gast finally co-operated. After the death of Franziska in 1897, Nietzsche lived in Weimar, where Elisabeth cared for him and allowed visitors, including Rudolf Steiner (who in 1895 had written one of the first books praising Nietzsche), to meet her uncommunicative brother. Elisabeth at one point went so far as to employ Steiner as a tutor to help her to understand her brother's philosophy. Steiner abandoned the attempt after only a few months, declaring that it was impossible to teach her anything about philosophy.\nNietzsche's mental illness was originally diagnosed as tertiary syphilis, in accordance with a prevailing medical paradigm of the time. Although most commentators regard his breakdown as unrelated to his philosophy, Georges Bataille dropped dark hints (\"'Man incarnate' must also go mad\") and René Girard's postmortem psychoanalysis posits a worshipful rivalry with Richard Wagner. Nietzsche had previously written, \"All superior men who were irresistibly drawn to throw off the yoke of any kind of morality and to frame new laws had, if they were not actually mad, no alternative but to make themselves or pretend to be mad.\" (Daybreak, 14) The diagnosis of syphilis has since been challenged and a diagnosis of \"manic-depressive illness with periodic psychosis followed by vascular dementia\" was put forward by Cybulska prior to Schain's study. Leonard Sax suggested the slow growth of a right-sided retro-orbital meningioma as an explanation of Nietzsche's dementia; Orth and Trimble postulated frontotemporal dementia while other researchers have proposed a hereditary stroke disorder called CADASIL. Poisoning by mercury, a treatment for syphilis at the time of Nietzsche's death, has also been suggested.\n\nIn 1898 and 1899, Nietzsche suffered at least two strokes. This partially paralyzed him, leaving him unable to speak or walk. He likely suffered from clinical hemiparesis/hemiplegia on the left side of his body by 1899. After contracting pneumonia in mid-August 1900, he had another stroke during the night of 24–25 August and died at about noon on 25 August. Elisabeth had him buried beside his father at the church in Röcken bei Lützen. His friend and secretary Gast gave his funeral oration, proclaiming: \"Holy be your name to all future generations!\"\n\nElisabeth Förster-Nietzsche compiled \"The Will to Power\" from Nietzsche's unpublished notebooks and published it posthumously. Because his sister arranged the book based on her own conflation of several of Nietzsche's early outlines and took great liberties with the material, the scholarly consensus has been that it does not reflect Nietzsche's intent. (For example, Elisabeth removed aphorism 35 of \"The Antichrist\", where Nietzsche rewrote a passage of the Bible.) Indeed, Mazzino Montinari, the editor of Nietzsche's \"Nachlass\", called it a forgery.\n\nGeneral commentators and Nietzsche scholars, whether emphasizing his cultural background or his language, overwhelmingly label Nietzsche as a \"German philosopher\". Others do not assign him a national category. Germany had not yet been unified into a nation-state, but Nietzsche was born a citizen of Prussia, which was then part of the German Confederation. His birthplace, Röcken, is in the modern German state of Saxony-Anhalt. When he accepted his post at Basel, Nietzsche applied for the annulment of his Prussian citizenship. The official response confirming the revocation of his citizenship came in a document dated 17 April 1869, and for the rest of his life he remained officially stateless.\n\nNietzsche believed his ancestors were Polish, at least toward the end of his life. He wore a signet ring bearing the Radwan coat of arms, traceable back to Polish nobility of medieval times and the surname \"Nicki\" of the Polish noble (szlachta) family bearing that coat of arms. Gotard Nietzsche, a member of the Nicki family, left Poland for Prussia. His descendants later settled in the Electorate of Saxony circa the year 1700. Nietzsche wrote in 1888, \"My ancestors were Polish noblemen (Nietzky); the type seems to have been well preserved despite three generations of German mothers.\" At one point, Nietzsche becomes even more adamant about his Polish identity. \"I am a pure-blooded Polish nobleman, without a single drop of bad blood, certainly not German blood.\" On yet another occasion, Nietzsche stated, \"Germany is a great nation only because its people have so much Polish blood in their veins ... I am proud of my Polish descent.\" Nietzsche believed his name might have been Germanized, in one letter claiming, \"I was taught to ascribe the origin of my blood and name to Polish noblemen who were called Niëtzky and left their home and nobleness about a hundred years ago, finally yielding to unbearable suppression: they were Protestants.\"\n\nMost scholars dispute Nietzsche's account of his family's origins. Hans von Müller debunked the genealogy put forward by Nietzsche's sister in favor of a Polish noble heritage. Max Oehler, the curator of the Nietzsche Archive at Weimar, argued that all of Nietzsche's ancestors bore German names, including the wives' families. Oehler claims that Nietzsche came from a long line of German Lutheran clergymen on both sides of his family, and modern scholars regard the claim of Nietzsche's Polish ancestry as a \"pure invention\". Colli and Montinari, the editors of Nietzsche's assembled letters, gloss Nietzsche's claims as a \"mistaken belief\" and \"without foundation.\" The name \"Nietzsche\" itself is not a Polish name, but an exceptionally common one throughout central Germany, in this and cognate forms (such as \"Nitsche\" and \"Nitzke\"). The name derives from the forename \"Nikolaus\", abbreviated to \"Nick\"; assimilated with the Slavic \"Nitz\", it first became \"Nitsche\" and then \"Nietzsche\".\n\nIt is not known why Nietzsche wanted to be thought of as Polish nobility. According to biographer R. J. Hollingdale, Nietzsche's propagation of the Polish ancestry myth may have been part of his \"campaign against Germany\".\n\nNietzsche never married. He proposed to Lou Salomé three times, but his proposal was rejected each time. There is a theory that blamed Salomé's view on sexuality as one of the reasons for her alienation from Nietzsche. As articulated in the 1898 novella \"Fenitschka\", she viewed the idea of sexual intercourse as prohibitive and marriage as a violation, with some suggesting that they indicated sexual repression and neurosis.\n\nNietzsche scholar has attempted to explain Nietzsche's life history and philosophy by claiming that Nietzsche was homosexual. Köhler argues that Nietzsche's syphilis, which is \"...usually considered to be the product of his encounter with a prostitute in a brothel in Cologne or Leipzig, is equally likely, it is now held, to have been contracted in a male brothel in Genoa.\" The acquisition of the infection from a homosexual brothel was confirmed by Sigmund Freud, who cited Otto Binswanger as his source. Köhler also suggests Nietzsche may have had a romantic relationship as well as a friendship with Paul Rée. There is the claim that Nietzsche's homosexuality is widely known in the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society, with Nietzsche's friend Paul Deussen claiming that the philosopher never \"touched a woman\".\n\nKöhler's views have not found wide acceptance among Nietzsche scholars and commentators. Allan Megill argues that, while Köhler's claim that Nietzsche was in a confrontation with his homosexual desire cannot simply be dismissed, \"the evidence is very weak,\" and Köhler may be projecting twentieth-century understandings of sexuality on nineteenth-century notions of friendship. It is also known that Nietzsche frequented heterosexual brothels. Some like Nigel Rodgers and Mel Thompson have argued that continuous sickness and headaches hindered Nietzsche from engaging much with women. Yet, they bring other examples in which Nietzsche expressed his affections to other women, including Wagner's wife Cosima Wagner.\n\nOther scholars have argued that Köhler's sexuality-based interpretation is not helpful in understanding Nietzsche's philosophy. However, there are also those who stressed that, if Nietzsche preferred men - with this preference constituting his psycho-sexual make-up - but could not admit his desires to himself, it meant he acted in conflict with his philosophy.\n\nBecause of Nietzsche's evocative style and provocative ideas, his philosophy generates passionate reactions. His works remain controversial, due to their varying interpretations and misinterpretations. In the Western philosophy tradition, Nietzsche's writings have been described as the unique case of free revolutionary thought, that is, revolutionary in its structure and problems, although not tied to any revolutionary project. His writings have also been described as a revolutionary project in which his philosophy serves as the foundation of a European cultural rebirth.\n\nThe \"Apollonian and Dionysian\" is a two-fold philosophical concept, based on certain features of ancient Greek mythology: Apollo and Dionysus. Even though the concept is famously related to \"The Birth of Tragedy\", the poet Hölderlin had already spoken of it, and Winckelmann had talked of Bacchus. One year before the publication of \"The Birth of Tragedy\", Nietzsche wrote a fragment titled \"On Music and Words\". In it he asserted the Schopenhauerian judgment that music is a primary expression of the essence of everything. Secondarily derivative are lyrical poetry and drama, which represent mere phenomenal appearances of objects. In this way, tragedy is born from music.\n\nNietzsche found in classical Athenian tragedy an art form that transcended the pessimism found in the so-called wisdom of Silenus. The Greek spectators, by looking into the abyss of human suffering depicted by characters on stage, passionately and joyously affirmed life, finding it worth living. A main theme in \"The Birth of Tragedy\" was that the fusion of Dionysian and Apollonian \"Kunsttrieben\" (\"artistic impulses\") forms dramatic arts, or tragedies. He goes on to argue that this fusion has not been achieved since the ancient Greek tragedians. Apollo represents harmony, progress, clarity and logic, whereas Dionysus represents disorder, intoxication, emotion and ecstasy. Nietzsche used these two forces because, for him, the world of mind and order on one side, and passion and chaos on the other formed principles that were fundamental to the Greek culture: the Apollonian side being a dreaming state, full of illusions; and Dionysian being the state of intoxication, representing the liberations of instinct and dissolution of boundaries. In this mold, man appears as the satyr. He is the horror of the annihilation of the principle of individuality and at the same time someone who delights in its destruction. Both of these principles are meant to represent cognitive states that appear through art as the power of nature in man.\n\nThe relationship between the Apollonian and Dionysian juxtapositions is apparent, in the interplay of tragedy: the tragic hero of the drama, the main protagonist, struggles to make order (in the Apollonian sense) of his unjust and chaotic (Dionysian) fate, though he dies unfulfilled in the end. Elaborating on the conception of Hamlet as an intellectual who cannot make up his mind, and therefore is a living antithesis to the man of action, Nietzsche argues that a Dionysian figure possesses knowledge to realize that his actions cannot change the eternal balance of things, and it disgusts him enough not to be able to make any act at all. Hamlet falls under this category—he has glimpsed the supernatural reality through the Ghost, he has gained true knowledge and knows that no action of his has the power to change this. For the audience of such drama, this tragedy allows them to sense an underlying essence, what Nietzsche called the \"Primordial Unity\", which revives Dionysian nature. He describes this primordial unity as the increase of strength, experience of fullness and plenitude bestowed by frenzy. Frenzy acts as an intoxication, and is crucial for the physiological condition that enables making of any art. Stimulated by this state, a person's artistic will is enhanced:\n\nIn this state one enriches everything out of one's own fullness: whatever one sees, whatever wills is seen swelled, taut, strong, overloaded with strength. A man in this state transforms things until they mirror his power—until they are reflections of his perfection. This having to transform into perfection is—art.\n\nNietzsche is adamant that the works of Aeschylus and Sophocles represent the apex of artistic creation, the true realization of tragedy; it is with Euripides, he states, that tragedy begins its \"Untergang\" (literally \"going under\" or \"downward-way,\" meaning decline, deterioration, downfall, death, etc.). Nietzsche objects to Euripides' use of Socratic rationalism and morality in his tragedies, claiming that the infusion of ethics and reason robs tragedy of its foundation, namely the fragile balance of the Dionysian and Apollonian. Socrates emphasized reason to such a degree that he diffused the value of myth and suffering to human knowledge. Plato continued with this path in his dialogues, and the modern world eventually inherited reason at the expense of artistic impulses that could be found only in the Apollonian and Dionysus dichotomy. This leads to his conclusion that European culture from the time of Socrates had always been only Apollonian and thus decadent and unhealthy. He notes that whenever Apollonian culture dominates, the Dionysian lacks the structure to make a coherent art, and when Dionysian dominates, the Apollonian lacks the necessary passion. Only the beautiful middle, the interplay of these two forces, brought together as an art, represented real Greek tragedy.\n\nAn example of the impact of this idea can be seen in the book \"Patterns of Culture\", where anthropologist Ruth Benedict uses Nietzschean opposites of \"Apollonian\" and \"Dionysian\" as the stimulus for her thoughts about Native American cultures. Carl Jung has written extensively on the dichotomy in \"Psychological Types\". Michel Foucault has commented that his book \"Madness and Civilization\" should be read \"under the sun of the great Nietzschean inquiry\". Here Foucault references Nietzsche's description of the birth and death of tragedy and his explanation that the subsequent tragedy of the Western world was the refusal of the tragic and, with that, refusal of the sacred. Painter Mark Rothko was influenced by Nietzsche's view of tragedy, which were presented in \"The Birth of Tragedy.\"\n\nNietzsche claimed the death of God would eventually lead to the loss of any universal perspective on things, and along with it any coherent sense of objective truth. Nietzsche himself rejected the idea of objective reality, arguing that knowledge is contingent and conditional, relative to various fluid perspectives or interests. This leads to constant reassessment of rules (i.e., those of philosophy, the scientific method, etc.) according to the circumstances of individual perspectives. This view has acquired the name \"perspectivism\".\n\nIn \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", Nietzsche proclaims that a table of values hangs above every great person. He points out that what is common among different peoples is the act of esteeming, of creating values, even if the values are different from one people to the next. Nietzsche asserts that what made people great was not the content of their beliefs, but the act of valuing. Thus the values a community strives to articulate are not as important as the collective will to see those values come to pass. The willing is more essential than the intrinsic worth of the goal itself, according to Nietzsche. \"A thousand goals have there been so far,\" says Zarathustra, \"for there are a thousand peoples. Only the yoke for the thousand necks is still lacking: the one goal is lacking. Humanity still has no goal.\" Hence, the title of the aphorism, \"On The Thousand And One Goals\". The idea that one value-system is no more worthy than the next, although it may not be directly ascribed to Nietzsche, has become a common premise in modern social science. Max Weber and Martin Heidegger absorbed it and made it their own. It shaped their philosophical and cultural endeavor, as well as their political understanding. Weber, for example, relies on Nietzsche's perspectivism by maintaining that objectivity is still possible—but only after a particular perspective, value, or end has been established.\n\nAmong his critique of traditional philosophy of Kant, Descartes and Plato in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche attacked \"thing in itself\" and \"cogito ergo sum\" (\"I think, therefore I am\") as unfalsifiable beliefs based on naive acceptance of previous notions and fallacies. Philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre puts Nietzsche in a high place in the history of philosophy. While criticizing nihilism and Nietzsche together as a sign of general decay, he still commends him for recognizing psychological motives behind Kant and Hume's moral philosophy:\n\nFor it was Nietzsche's historic achievement to understand more clearly than any other philosopher...not only that what purported to be appeals of objectivity were in fact expressions of subjective will, but also the nature of the problems that this posed for philosophy.\n\nIn \"Beyond Good and Evil\" and \"On the Genealogy of Morality\", Nietzsche's genealogical account of the development of modern moral systems occupies a central place. For Nietzsche, a fundamental shift took place during human history from thinking in terms of \"good and bad\" toward \"good and evil\".\n\nThe initial form of morality was set by a warrior aristocracy and other ruling castes of ancient civilizations. Aristocratic values of good and bad coincided with and reflected their relationship to lower castes such as slaves. Nietzsche presents this \"master morality\" as the original system of morality—perhaps best associated with Homeric Greece. To be \"good\" was to be happy and to have the things related to happiness: wealth, strength, health, power, etc. To be \"bad\" was to be like the slaves the aristocracy ruled over: poor, weak, sick, pathetic—an object of pity or disgust rather than hatred.\n\n\"Slave morality\" comes about as a reaction to master-morality. Here, value emerges from the contrast between good and evil: good being associated with other-worldliness, charity, piety, restraint, meekness, and submission; and evil seen as worldly, cruel, selfish, wealthy, and aggressive. Nietzsche sees slave morality as pessimistic and fearful, values for them serving only to ease the existence for those who suffer from the very same thing. He associates slave-morality with the Jewish and Christian traditions, in a way that slave-morality is born out of the ressentiment of slaves. Nietzsche argued that the idea of equality allowed slaves to overcome their own condition without hating themselves. And by denying the inherent inequality of people (such as success, strength, beauty or intelligence), slaves acquired a method of escape, namely by generating new values on the basis of rejecting something that was seen as a perceived source of frustration. It was used to overcome the slave's own sense of inferiority before the (better-off) masters. It does so by making out slave weakness to be a matter of choice, by, e.g., relabeling it as \"meekness\". The \"good man\" of master morality is precisely the \"evil man\" of slave morality, while the \"bad man\" is recast as the \"good man\".\n\nNietzsche sees the slave-morality as a source of the nihilism that has overtaken Europe. Modern Europe and Christianity exist in a hypocritical state due to a tension between master and slave morality, both values contradictorily determining, to varying degrees, the values of most Europeans (who are \"motley\"). Nietzsche calls for exceptional people to no longer be ashamed of their uniqueness in the face of a supposed morality-for-all, which he deems to be harmful to the flourishing of exceptional people. He cautions, however, that morality, per se, is not bad; it is good for the masses, and should be left to them. Exceptional people, on the other hand, should follow their own \"inner law\". A favorite motto of Nietzsche, taken from Pindar, reads: \"Become what you are.\"\n\nA long standing assumption about Nietzsche is that he preferred master over slave morality. However, the Nietzsche scholar Walter Kaufmann rejected this interpretation, writing that Nietzsche's analyses of these two types of morality were only used in a descriptive and historic sense, they were not meant for any kind of acceptance or glorifications. On the other hand, it is clear from his own writings that Nietzsche wanted the victory of master morality. He linked the \"salvation and future of the human race with the unconditional dominance\" of master morality and called master morality \"a higher order of values, the noble ones, those that say Yes to life, those that guarantee the future.\" Just as \"there is an order of rank between man and man,\" there is also an order of rank \"between morality and morality.\" Indeed, Nietzsche waged a philosophic war against the slave morality of Christianity in his \"revaluation of all values\" in order to bring about the victory of a new master morality that he called the \"philosophy of the future\" (\"Beyond Good and Evil\" is subtitled \"Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future\").\n\nIn \"Daybreak\", Nietzsche begins his \"Campaign against Morality\". He calls himself an \"immoralist\" and harshly criticizes the prominent moral philosophies of his day: Christianity, Kantianism, and utilitarianism. Nietzsche's concept \"God is dead\" applies to the doctrines of Christendom, though not to all other faiths: he claimed that Buddhism is a successful religion that he compliments for fostering critical thought. Still, Nietzsche saw his philosophy as a counter-movement to nihilism through appreciation of art:\n\nNietzsche claimed that the Christian faith as practised was not a proper representation of Jesus' teachings, as it forced people merely to believe in the way of Jesus but not to act as Jesus did, in particular his example of refusing to judge people, something that Christians had constantly done the opposite of. He condemned institutionalized Christianity for emphasizing a morality of pity (\"Mitleid\"), which assumes an inherent illness in society:\nIn \"Ecce Homo\" Nietzsche called the establishment of moral systems based on a dichotomy of good and evil a \"calamitous error\", and wished to initiate a re-evaluation of the values of the Judeo-Christian world. He indicates his desire to bring about a new, more naturalistic source of value in the vital impulses of life itself.\n\nWhile Nietzsche attacked the principles of Judaism, he was not antisemitic: in his work \"On the Genealogy of Morality\", he explicitly condemns antisemitism, and points out that his attack on Judaism was not an attack on contemporary Jewish people but specifically an attack upon the ancient Jewish priesthood whom he claims antisemitic Christians paradoxically based their views upon. An Israeli historian who performed a statistical analysis of everything Nietzsche wrote about Jews claims that cross references and context make clear that almost all (85%) negative comments are actually attacks on Christian doctrine or, sarcastically, on Richard Wagner.\n\nNietzsche felt that modern antisemitism was \"despicable\" and against European ideals. Its cause, in his opinion, was the growth in European nationalism and the endemic \"jealousy and hatred\" of Jewish success. He wrote that Jews should be thanked for helping uphold a respect for the philosophies of ancient Greece, and for giving rise to \"the noblest human being (Christ), the purest philosopher (Baruch Spinoza), the mightiest book, and the most effective moral code in the world.\"\n\nThe statement \"God is dead\", occurring in several of Nietzsche's works (notably in \"The Gay Science\"), has become one of his best-known remarks. On the basis of it, most commentators regard Nietzsche as an atheist; others (such as Kaufmann) suggest that this statement reflects a more subtle understanding of divinity. Recent developments in modern science and the increasing secularization of European society had effectively 'killed' the Abrahamic God, who had served as the basis for meaning and value in the West for more than a thousand years. The death of God may lead beyond bare perspectivism to outright nihilism, the belief that nothing has any inherent importance and that life lacks purpose. Here he states that the Christian moral doctrine provides people with intrinsic value, belief in God (which justifies the evil in the world) and a basis for objective knowledge. In this sense, in constructing a world where objective knowledge is possible, Christianity is an antidote to a primal form of nihilism—the despair of meaninglessness. As Heidegger put the problem, \"If God as the suprasensory ground and goal of all reality is dead, if the suprasensory world of the ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory and above it its vitalizing and upbuilding power, then nothing more remains to which man can cling and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nOne such reaction to the loss of meaning is what Nietzsche calls \"passive nihilism\", which he recognises in the pessimistic philosophy of Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer's doctrine—which Nietzsche also refers to as Western Buddhism—advocates separating oneself from will and desires in order to reduce suffering. Nietzsche characterises this ascetic attitude as a \"will to nothingness\", whereby life turns away from itself, as there is nothing of value to be found in the world. This moving away of all value in the world is characteristic of the nihilist, although in this, the nihilist appears to be inconsistent:\n\nNietzsche approaches the problem of nihilism as a deeply personal one, stating that this problem of the modern world is a problem that has \"become conscious\" in him. Furthermore, he emphasizes both the danger of nihilism and the possibilities it offers, as seen in his statement that \"I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength!\" According to Nietzsche, it is only when nihilism is \"overcome\" that a culture can have a true foundation on which to thrive. He wished to hasten its coming only so that he could also hasten its ultimate departure. Heidegger interprets the death of God with what he explains as the death of metaphysics. He concludes that metaphysics has reached its potential and that the ultimate fate and downfall of metaphysics was proclaimed with the statement \"God is dead\".\n\nA basic element in Nietzsche's philosophical outlook is the \"will to power\" (\"der Wille zur Macht\"), which he maintained provides a basis for understanding human behavior—more so than competing explanations, such as the ones based on pressure for adaptation or survival. As such, according to Nietzsche, the drive for conservation appears as the major motivator of human or animal behavior only in exceptions, as the general condition of life is not one of emergency, of 'struggle for existence'. More often than not, self-conservation is but a consequence of a creature's will to exert its strength on the outside world.\n\nIn presenting his theory of human behavior, Nietzsche also addressed, and attacked, concepts from philosophies popularly embraced in his days, such as Schopenhauer's notion of an aimless will or that of utilitarianism. Utilitarians claim that what moves people is mainly the desire to be happy, to accumulate pleasure in their lives. But such a conception of happiness Nietzsche rejected as something limited to, and characteristic of, the bourgeois lifestyle of the English society, and instead put forth the idea that happiness is not an aim \"per se\"—it is instead a consequence of a successful pursuit of one's aims, of the overcoming of hurdles to one's actions—in other words, of the fulfillment of the will.\n\nRelated to his theory of the will to power is his speculation, which he did not deem final, regarding the reality of the physical world, including inorganic matter—that, like man's affections and impulses, the material world is also set by the dynamics of a form of the will to power. At the core of his theory is a rejection of atomism—the idea that matter is composed of stable, indivisible units (atoms). Instead, he seems to have accepted the conclusions of Ruđer Bošković, who explained the qualities of matter as a result of an interplay of forces. One study of Nietzsche defines his fully developed concept of the will to power as \"the element from which derive both the quantitative difference of related forces and the quality that devolves into each force in this relation\" revealing the will to power as \"the principle of the synthesis of forces.\" Of such forces Nietzsche said they could perhaps be viewed as a primitive form of the will. Likewise he rejected as a mere interpretation the view that the movement of bodies is ruled by inexorable laws of nature, positing instead that movement was governed by the power relations between bodies and forces. Other scholars disagree that Nietzsche considered the material world to be a form of the will to power: Nietzsche thoroughly criticized metaphysics, and by including the will to power in the material world, he would simply be setting up a new metaphysics. Other than aphorism 36 in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", where he raised a question regarding will to power as being in the material world, it was only in his notes (unpublished by himself), where he wrote about a metaphysical will to power. Nietzsche directed his landlord to burn those notes in 1888 when he left Sils Maria for the last time.\n\n\"Eternal return\" (also known as \"eternal recurrence\") is a hypothetical concept that posits that the universe has been recurring, and will continue to recur, in a self-similar form for an infinite number of times across infinite time or space. It is a purely physical concept, involving no supernatural reincarnation, but the return of beings in the same bodies. Nietzsche first invokes the idea of eternal return in a parable in Section 341 of \"The Gay Science\", and also in the chapter \"Of the Vision and the Riddle\" in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", among other places. Nietzsche contemplates the idea as potentially \"horrifying and paralyzing,\" and says that its burden is the \"heaviest weight\" imaginable (\"das schwerste Gewicht\"). The wish for the eternal return of all events would mark the ultimate affirmation of life, a reaction to Schopenhauer's praise of denying the will‐to‐live. To comprehend eternal recurrence in his thought, and to not merely come to peace with it but to embrace it, requires \"amor fati\", \"love of fate\". As Heidegger points out in his lectures on Nietzsche, Nietzsche's first mention of eternal recurrence presents this concept as a hypothetical \"question\" rather than postulating it as a fact. According to Heidegger, it is the burden imposed by the \"question\" of eternal recurrence—whether or not such a thing could possibly be true—that is so significant in modern thought: \"The way Nietzsche here patterns the first communication of the thought of the 'greatest burden' [of eternal recurrence] makes it clear that this 'thought of thoughts' is at the same time 'the most burdensome thought.'\"\n\nNot only does Nietzsche posit that the universe is recurring over infinite time and space, but that the different versions of events that have occurred in the past may at one point or another take place again, hence \"all configurations that have previously existed on this earth must yet meet...\" And with each version of events is hoping that some knowledge or awareness is gained to better the individual, hence \"And thus it will happen one day that a man will be born again, just like me and a woman will be born, just like Mary—only that it is hoped to be that the head of this man may contain a little less foolishness...\"\n\nAlexander Nehamas writes in \"Nietzsche: Life as Literature\" of three ways of seeing the eternal recurrence: \"(A) My life will recur in exactly identical fashion.\" This expresses a totally fatalistic approach to the idea. \"(B) My life may recur in exactly identical fashion.\" This second view conditionally asserts cosmology, but fails to capture what Nietzsche refers to in \"The Gay Science\", 341. Finally, \"(C) If my life were to recur, then it could recur only in identical fashion.\" Nehamas shows that this interpretation exists totally independently of physics and does not presuppose the truth of cosmology. Nehamas draws the conclusion that if individuals constitute themselves through their actions, then they can only maintain themselves in their current state by living in a recurrence of past actions (Nehamas 153). Nietzsche's thought is the negation of the idea of a history of salvation.\n\nAnother concept important to an understanding of Nietzsche's thought is the \"Übermensch\" Developing the idea of nihilism, Nietzsche wrote \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", therein introducing the concept of a value-creating Übermensch, not as a project, but as an anti-project, the absence of any project. According to Lampert, \"the death of God must be followed by a long twilight of piety and nihilism (II. 19; III. 8). Zarathustra's gift of the overman is given to a mankind not aware of the problem to which the overman is the solution.\" Zarathustra presents the overman as the creator of new values, and he appears as a solution to the problem of the death of God and nihilism. The overman does not follow morality of common people since that favors mediocrity but instead rises above the notion of good and evil and above the \"herd\". In this way Zarathustra proclaims his ultimate goal as the journey towards the state of overman. He wants a kind of spiritual evolution of self-awareness and overcoming of traditional views on morality and justice that stem from the superstition beliefs still deeply rooted or related to the notion of God and Christianity.\n\nWhile interpretations of Nietzsche's overman vary wildly, here is one of his quotations from \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" (Prologue, §§3–4):\n\nZarathustra contrasts the overman with the last man of egalitarian modernity (most obvious example being democracy), an alternative goal humanity might set for itself. The last man is possible only by mankind's having bred an apathetic creature who has no great passion or commitment, who is unable to dream, who merely earns his living and keeps warm. This concept appears only in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", and is presented as a condition that would render the creation of the overman impossible.\n\nSome have suggested that the notion of eternal return is related to the overman, since willing the eternal return of the same is a necessary step if the overman is to create new values, untainted by the spirit of gravity or asceticism. Values involve a rank-ordering of things, and so are inseparable from approval and disapproval; yet it was dissatisfaction that prompted men to seek refuge in other-worldliness and embrace other-worldly values. It could seem that the overman, in being devoted to any values at all, would necessarily fail to create values that did not share some bit of asceticism. Willing the eternal recurrence is presented as accepting the existence of the low while still recognizing it as the low, and thus as overcoming the spirit of gravity or asceticism. One must have the strength of the overman in order to will the eternal recurrence; that is, only the overman will have the strength to fully accept all of his past life, including his failures and misdeeds, and to truly will their eternal return. This action nearly kills Zarathustra, for example, and most human beings cannot avoid other-worldliness because they really are sick, not because of any choice they made.\n\nThe Nazis tried to incorporate the concept into their ideology. After his death, Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche became the curator and editor of her brother's manuscripts. She reworked Nietzsche's unpublished writings to fit her own German nationalist ideology while often contradicting or obfuscating Nietzsche's stated opinions, which were explicitly opposed to antisemitism and nationalism. Through her published editions, Nietzsche's work became associated with fascism and Nazism; 20th century scholars contested this interpretation of his work and corrected editions of his writings were soon made available.\n\nAlthough Nietzsche has famously been misrepresented as a predecessor to Nazism, he criticized anti-Semitism, pan-Germanism and, to a lesser extent, nationalism. Thus, he broke with his editor in 1886 because of his opposition to his editor's anti-Semitic stances, and his rupture with Richard Wagner, expressed in \"The Case of Wagner\" and \"Nietzsche contra Wagner,\" both of which he wrote in 1888, had much to do with Wagner's endorsement of pan-Germanism and anti-Semitism — and also of his rallying to Christianity. In a March 29, 1887 letter to Theodor Fritsch, Nietzsche mocked anti-Semites, Fritsch, Eugen Dühring, Wagner, Ebrard, Wahrmund, and the leading advocate of pan-Germanism, Paul de Lagarde, who would become, along with Wagner and Houston Chamberlain, the main official influences of Nazism. This 1887 letter to Fritsch ended by: \"And finally, how do you think I feel when the name Zarathustra is mouthed by anti-Semites?\"\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche held a pessimistic view on modern society and culture. His views stand against the concept of popular culture. He believed the press and mass culture led to conformity and brought about mediocrity. Nietzsche saw a lack of intellectual progress, leading to the decline of the human species. According to Nietzsche, individuals needed to overcome this form of mass culture. He believed some people were able to become superior individuals through the use of will power. By rising above mass culture, society would produce higher, brighter and healthier human beings.\n\nA trained philologist, Nietzsche had a thorough knowledge of Greek philosophy. He read Kant, Plato, Mill, Schopenhauer and Spir, who became his main opponents in his philosophy, and later Baruch Spinoza, whom he saw as his \"precursor\" in many respects but as a personification of the \"ascetic ideal\" in others. However, Nietzsche referred to Kant as a \"moral fanatic\", Plato as \"boring\", Mill as a \"blockhead\", and of Spinoza he said: \"How much of personal timidity and vulnerability does this masquerade of a sickly recluse betray?\" He likewise expressed contempt for British author George Eliot.\n\nNietzsche's philosophy, while innovative and revolutionary, was indebted to many predecessors. While at Basel, Nietzsche offered lecture courses on pre-Platonic philosophers for several years, and the text of this lecture series has been characterized as a \"lost link\" in the development of his thought. \"In it concepts such as the will to power, the eternal return of the same, the overman, gay science, self-overcoming and so on receive rough, unnamed formulations and are linked to specific pre-Platonics, especially Heraclitus, who emerges as a pre-Platonic Nietzsche.\" The pre-Socratic thinker Heraclitus was known for the rejection of the concept of being as a constant and eternal principle of universe, and his embrace of \"flux\" and incessant change. His symbolism of the world as \"child play\" marked by amoral spontaneity and lack of definite rules was appreciated by Nietzsche. From his Heraclitean sympathy, Nietzsche was also a vociferous detractor of Parmenides, who opposed Heraclitus and believed all world is a single Being with no change at all.\n\nIn his \"Egotism in German Philosophy\", Santayana claimed that Nietzsche's whole philosophy was a reaction to Schopenhauer. Santayana wrote that Nietzsche's work was \"an emendation of that of Schopenhauer. The will to live would become the will to dominate; pessimism founded on reflection would become optimism founded on courage; the suspense of the will in contemplation would yield to a more biological account of intelligence and taste; finally in the place of pity and asceticism (Schopenhauer's two principles of morals) Nietzsche would set up the duty of asserting the will at all costs and being cruelly but beautifully strong. These points of difference from Schopenhauer cover the whole philosophy of Nietzsche.\"\n\nNietzsche expressed admiration for 17th-century French moralists such as La Rochefoucauld, La Bruyère and Vauvenargues, as well as for Stendhal. The organicism of Paul Bourget influenced Nietzsche, as did that of Rudolf Virchow and Alfred Espinas. Nietzsche wrote in a letter in 1867 that he was trying to improve his German style of writing with the help of Lessing, Lichtenberg and Schopenhauer. It was probably Lichtenberg (along with Paul Rée) whose aphoristic style of writing contributed to Nietzsche's own use of aphorism instead of an essay. Nietzsche early learned of Darwinism through Friedrich Albert Lange. The essays of Ralph Waldo Emerson had a profound influence on Nietzsche, who \"loved Emerson from first to last\", wrote \"Never have I felt so much at home in a book\", and called him \"[the] author who has been richest in ideas in this century so far.\" Hippolyte Taine influenced Nietzsche's view on Rousseau and Napoleon. Notably, he also read some of the posthumous works of Charles Baudelaire, Tolstoy's \"My Religion\", Ernest Renan's \"Life of Jesus\" and Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"Demons\". Nietzsche called Dostoevsky \"the only psychologist from whom I have anything to learn.\" While Nietzsche never mentions Max Stirner, the similarities in their ideas have prompted a minority of interpreters to suggest a relationship between the two. In 1861 Nietzsche wrote an enthusiastic essay on his \"favorite poet\", Friedrich Hölderlin, mostly forgotten at that time. He also expressed deep appreciation for Stifter's \"Indian Summer\", Byron's \"Manfred\" and Twain's \"Tom Sawyer\".\n\nNietzsche's works did not reach a wide readership during his active writing career. However, in 1888 the influential Danish critic Georg Brandes aroused considerable excitement about Nietzsche through a series of lectures he gave at the University of Copenhagen. In the years after Nietzsche's death in 1900, his works became better known, and readers have responded to them in complex and sometimes controversial ways. Many Germans eventually discovered his appeals for greater individualism and personality development in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", but responded to them divergently. He had some following among left-wing Germans in the 1890s; in 1894–1895 German conservatives wanted to ban his work as subversive. During the late 19th century Nietzsche's ideas were commonly associated with anarchist movements and appear to have had influence within them, particularly in France and the United States. H. L. Mencken produced the first book on Nietzsche in English in 1907, \"The Philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche\", and in 1910 a book of translated paragraphs from Nietzsche, increasing knowledge of his philosophy in the United States. Nietzsche is known today as a precursor to expressionism, existentialism, and postmodernism.\n\nW. B. Yeats and Arthur Symons described Nietzsche as the intellectual heir to William Blake. Symons went on to compare the ideas of the two thinkers in \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\", while Yeats tried to raise awareness of Nietzsche in Ireland. A similar notion was espoused by W. H. Auden who wrote of Nietzsche in his \"New Year Letter\" (released in 1941 in \"The Double Man\"): \"O masterly debunker of our liberal fallacies [...] all your life you stormed, like your English forerunner Blake\". Nietzsche made an impact on composers during the 1890s. Writer on music Donald Mitchell notes that Gustav Mahler was \"attracted to the poetic fire of Zarathustra, but repelled by the intellectual core of its writings.\" He also quotes Mahler himself, and adds that he was influenced by Nietzsche's conception and affirmative approach to nature, which Mahler presented in his Third Symphony using Zarathustra's roundelay. Frederick Delius produced a piece of choral music, \"A Mass of Life\", based on a text of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", while Richard Strauss (who also based his \"Also sprach Zarathustra\" on the same book), was only interested in finishing \"another chapter of symphonic autobiography\". Famous writers and poets influenced by Nietzsche include André Gide, August Strindberg, Robinson Jeffers, Pío Baroja, D. H. Lawrence, Edith Södergran and Yukio Mishima.\n\nNietzsche was an early influence on the poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke. Knut Hamsun counted Nietzsche, along with Strindberg and Dostoyevsky, as one of his primary influences. Author Jack London wrote that he was more stimulated by Nietzsche than by any other writer. Critics have suggested that the character of David Grief in \"A Son of the Sun\" was based on Nietzsche. Nietzsche's influence on Muhammad Iqbal is most evidenced in \"Asrar-i-Khudi (The Secrets of the Self)\". Wallace Stevens was another reader of Nietzsche, and elements of Nietzsche's philosophy were found throughout Steven's poetry collection \"Harmonium\". Olaf Stapledon was influenced by the idea of the \"Übermensch\" and it is a central theme in his books \"Odd John\" and \"Sirius\". In Russia, Nietzsche has influenced Russian symbolism and figures such as Dmitry Merezhkovsky, Andrei Bely, Vyacheslav Ivanov and Alexander Scriabin have all incorporated or discussed parts of Nietzsche philosophy in their works. Thomas Mann's novel \"Death in Venice\" shows a use of Apollonian and Dionysian, and in \"Doctor Faustus\" Nietzsche was a central source for the character of Adrian Leverkühn. Hermann Hesse, similarly, in his \"Narcissus and Goldmund\" presents two main characters in the sense of Apollonian and Dionysian as the two opposite yet intertwined spirits. Painter Giovanni Segantini was fascinated by \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", and he drew an illustration for the first Italian translation of the book. The Russian painter Lena Hades created the oil painting cycle \"Also Sprach Zarathustra\" dedicated to the book \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\".\n\nBy World War I, Nietzsche had acquired a reputation as an inspiration for both right-wing German militarism and leftist politics. German soldiers received copies of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" as gifts during World War I. The Dreyfus affair provides a contrasting example of his reception: the French antisemitic Right labelled the Jewish and leftist intellectuals who defended Alfred Dreyfus as \"Nietzscheans\". Nietzsche had a distinct appeal for many Zionist thinkers around the start of the 20th century, most notable being Ahad Ha'am, Hillel Zeitlin, Micha Josef Berdyczewski, A. D. Gordon and Martin Buber, who went so far as to extoll Nietzsche as a \"creator\" and \"emissary of life\". Chaim Weizmann was a great admirer of Nietzsche; the first president of Israel sent Nietzsche's books to his wife, adding a comment in a letter that \"This was the best and finest thing I can send to you.\" Israel Eldad, the ideological chief of the Stern Gang that fought the British in Palestine in the 1940s, wrote about Nietzsche in his underground newspaper and later translated most of Nietzsche's books into Hebrew. Eugene O'Neill remarked that \"Zarathustra\" influenced him more than any other book he ever read. He also shared Nietzsche's view of tragedy. Plays \"The Great God Brown\" and \"Lazarus Laughed\" are an example of Nietzsche's influence on O'Neill. Nietzsche's influence on the works of Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno can be seen in the popular \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\". Adorno summed up Nietzsche's philosophy as expressing the \"humane in a world in which humanity has become a sham.\"\n\nNietzsche's growing prominence suffered a severe setback when his works became closely associated with Adolf Hitler and Nazi Germany. Many political leaders of the twentieth century were at least superficially familiar with Nietzsche's ideas, although it is not always possible to determine whether they actually read his work. It is debated among scholars whether Hitler read Nietzsche, although if he did his reading of him may not have been extensive. He was a frequent visitor to the Nietzsche museum in Weimar and did use expressions of Nietzsche's, such as \"lords of the earth\" in \"Mein Kampf\". The Nazis made selective use of Nietzsche's philosophy. Mussolini, Charles de Gaulle and Huey P. Newton read Nietzsche. Richard Nixon read Nietzsche with \"curious interest,\" and his book \"Beyond Peace\" might have taken its title from Nietzsche's book \"Beyond Good and Evil\" which Nixon read beforehand. Bertrand Russell wrote that Nietzsche had exerted great influence on philosophers and on people of literary and artistic culture, but warned that the attempt to put Nietzsche's philosophy of aristocracy into practice could only be done by an organization similar to the Fascist or the Nazi party.\n\nA decade after World War II, there was a revival of Nietzsche's philosophical writings thanks to exhaustive translations and analyses by Walter Kaufmann and R. J. Hollingdale. Others, well known philosophers in their own right, wrote commentaries on Nietzsche's philosophy, including Martin Heidegger, who produced a four-volume study, and Lev Shestov, who wrote a book called \"Dostoyevski, Tolstoy and Nietzsche\" where he portrays Nietzsche and Dostoyevski as the \"thinkers of tragedy\". Georg Simmel compares Nietzsche's importance to ethics to that of Copernicus for cosmology. Sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies read Nietzsche avidly from his early life, and later frequently discussed many of his concepts in his own works. Nietzsche has influenced philosophers such as Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Oswald Spengler, George Grant, Emil Cioran, Albert Camus, Ayn Rand, Jacques Derrida, Leo Strauss, Max Scheler, Michel Foucault and Bernard Williams. Camus described Nietzsche as \"the only artist to have derived the extreme consequences of an aesthetics of the absurd\". Paul Ricœur called Nietzsche one of the masters of the \"school of suspicion\", alongside Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud. Carl Jung was also influenced by Nietzsche. In \"Memories, Dreams, Reflections\", a biography transcribed by his secretary, he cites Nietzsche as a large influence. Aspects of Nietzsche's philosophy, especially his ideas of the self and his relation to society, also run through much of late-twentieth and early twenty-first century thought. His deepening of the romantic-heroic tradition of the nineteenth century, for example, as expressed in the ideal of the \"grand striver\" appears in the work of thinkers from Cornelius Castoriadis to Roberto Mangabeira Unger. For Nietzsche this grand striver overcomes obstacles, engages in epic struggles, pursues new goals, embraces recurrent novelty, and transcends existing structures and contexts. No social or cultural construct can contain this idealized individual.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58123312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58123312", "title": "Fritz Neugass", "text": "Fritz Neugass\n\nFritz Neugass (March 28, 1899, Mannheim–June 1979, New York City) was a German art critic and photographer.\n\nFritz Neugass was of Jewish origin. His father Julius Neugass (1869-1939) was an ear, nose and throat specialist in Mannheim. Neugass took part in World War I in 1917, but was released in 1918 after being seriously injured. Influenced by the Wandervogel youth movement, he temporarily turned to Protestantism. \n\nFrom 1919 he studied art history and archeology in Munich, Berlin and Bonn and completed his doctorate in 1924, writing a thesis on Gothic choir stalls, supervised by art historian Carl Neumann (1860-1934) in Heidelberg.\n\nIn 1925 he was a volunteer at the Deutschen Archäologischen Institut (German Archaeological Institute) in Rome and then in Florence and participated in excavations on Sicily. \n\nIn 1926 he settled in Paris and became a photographer and correspondent for numerous German and international newspapers. He reported for the \"Berliner Tageblatt\", the \"Vossische Zeitung\", Cicerone, \"Kunst\", and especially Weltkunst. He became known for his reviews for world art and reports on the current Paris art scene. In addition to exhibition reports and essayistic works he wrote knowledgeable monographs on artists including de Chirico, Matisse, Pissarro, and Cézanne. In autumn 1933 he was romantically involved with , first wife of Max Ernst (m. 1918–1927), who had fled to Paris. From 1933-39, he set out as a photographer and correspondent traveling widely and reported for English, American, French and Swiss newspapers mainly on travel and politics in Mediterranean countries.\n\nShortly after the outbreak of the Second World War Neugass was interned in the camp Fort Carré in Antibes. In November 1939 he was transferred to Les Milles near Aix-en-Provence. There he met amongst others Max Ernst, Walter Hasenclever and Lion Feuchtwanger. In 1939, under the pseudonym \"François Neuville\" he wrote the novel \"Das Geheimnis um die Venus\" (‘The Mystery about Venus’), originally planned as a movie starring the actor Raimu, which appeared in two separate Swiss newspapers. In the spring of that year he joined the French army.\n\nAs a journalist, he was accused by the Vichy regime in 1941 of distributing enemy propaganda and sentenced. In order to forestall the impending expulsion to Germany, he emigrated in late 1941 via Casablanca and Cuba to the United States. \n\nFrom 1942 to 1947 Neugass worked in various bookstores and for the Red Cross. In 1944 he married librarian Lotte Labus, who had earned her own Ph.D in Berlin, and was granted American citizenship in 1947 and freelanced for several magazines, including articles illustrated with his own photographs ’Window Shopping With Your Camera’ for \"Popular Photography.\" and 'Portraiture with Match and Candle' for \"The American Annual of Photography\" In the 1950s he wrote for various European newspapers \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", \"Handelsblatt\", \"Aufbau\", and \"Art News\" and was the American correspondent to the Swiss \"Camera\" magazine in which, in writing on 'The photographers of the United Nations' he expressed the opinion that “The aim of the United Nations is identical with that which lies closest to the hearts of photographers: to bring the nations closer together through mutual understanding,”\n\nNeugass became a member of the American Society of Magazine Photographers and was exhibited in the Village Camera Club. He traveled to Mexico to make ethnological photographic documentation of rural life in 1953 which was shown in an exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History in 1954. His photography was featured by Edward Steichen in two exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art; \"Abstraction in Photography\", May 1–July 4, 1951 which featured his photographs of New York skyscrapers reflected in puddles, windows and on car duco, and \"The Family of Man\" January 24–May 8, 1955, his contribution to the latter being made on Coney Island of swimsuit-clad couples embracing on the beach. The photograph later illustrated a 1979 book on body language. \n\nNeugass' late work as a journalist included critical evaluations of the buying policy of the museums and strategies of the art market. Due to failing health, in January 1979, Neugass turned down their offer to be American editor for the German magazine \"Kunst\". He passed away in June. A memorial exhibit of Neugass' work was held on the 15th of October 1979 at Goethe House in New York City.\n\nHis estate is kept in the University at Albany, New York and was compiled by Lotte Neugass (née Labus) prior to their deposit there in the M.E. Grenander Department of Special Collections. There are approximately 4500 original photographs by Neugass in the collection.\n\n\nBiography (German) at Deutsche Biographie\n"}
{"id": "30941678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30941678", "title": "Gaffney, Cline &amp; Associates", "text": "Gaffney, Cline &amp; Associates\n\nGaffney, Cline & Associates is a petroleum consulting company headquartered in Alton, the United Kingdom, with offices in London, Houston, Buenos Aires, Singapore, Dubai and Sydney.\n\nGaffney, Cline & Associates (GCA) was founded in 1962. Since 2008, it is a subsidiary of Baker Hughes, a GE Company.\n\nOne of the notable functions of Gaffney Cline, along with similar petroleum industry consultants such as DeGolyer and MacNaughton, Netherland, Sewell, RPS-APA and Ryder Scott, is to provide third party verification and/or valuation of oil and natural gas reserves - typically 1P proven reserves, but also 2P probable reserves and 3P possible reserves - for company annual reports and SEC filing 20-F. In addition to commercial and technical studies in the oil and gas sector, GCA has practice areas in Gas/LNG and Value Assurance.\n\nD. Nathan Meehan, Ph.D, P.E. is President of Gaffney, Cline & Associates and Vice-President of Baker Hughes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42630272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42630272", "title": "Grön eld, Umeå", "text": "Grön eld, Umeå\n\nGrön eld (\"Fire in Green\") is a glass sculpture by Vicke Lindstrand at Järnvägstorget, which is located in front of Umeå Central Station, in Umeå, Sweden. It was, at nine meters, the tallest glass sculpture in the world at the time of its inauguration in 1970.\n\nSven Wallander, the head of HSB, commissioned the sculpture after he had seen the glass sculpture \"Prisma\" by Vicke Lindstrand in Norrköping. HSB donated \"Grön eld\" to Umeå Municipality, which paid for the foundation. \n\nLennart Johansson, who assembled the sculpture in 1970, told the press in December 2013 that he had hidden an image of Mao Zedong in one of the glass flames of the sculpture.\n\n\"Grön eld\" consists of three twisted glass pillars that grow thinner at the top. The glass pillars are constructed of three thousand, nine millimeter thin, plates of glass made by Emmaboda glasverk in Sweden. The glass pieces are glued together with epoxy glue in order to cope with the harsh climate. The nine meter high sculpture weighs 45 tons and is standing on a heavy concrete pedestal with a piled foundation.\n"}
{"id": "30169414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30169414", "title": "Heraldic courtesy", "text": "Heraldic courtesy\n\nHeraldic courtesy or courtoisie is a term used in heraldry when two arms are combined next to each other. The dexter arms is flipped horizontally so its charge is turned towards the sinister arms, out of courtesy. This is usually done when the arms show an alliance.\n\nThis placement of two arms next to each other is often used in German armorial practice, while in English heraldry impalement is more usual.\n"}
{"id": "52112467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52112467", "title": "Kadiatou Konaté", "text": "Kadiatou Konaté\n\nKadiatou Konaté is a Malian film director and screenwriter. Her most notable work is \"L'Enfant terrible\", an animated short based on African myths. She has also produced several documentaries, often focusing on the issues of women and children in Mali.\n\nKonaté was born in Bamako, Mali. Her family, the Konates, were royalty that had once belonged to the Gbara of Old Mali. \n\nShe was educated at Cheikh Anta Diop University.\n\nAfter leaving university, Konaté worked as a member of the crew on Souleymane Cissé's 1985 classic film \"Yeelen\". In 1989 she wrote the screenplay for the short animated film \"La Geste de Ségou\", directed by fellow Malian Mambaye Coulibaly. Her first credited solo work is listed as the documentary \"Des Yeux Pour Pleurer\" (Crying Eyes), shot on video in 1992. Konaté followed this with a second documentary, also shot on video, \"Circulation Routiere\" (\"Traffic\"), co-directed with Kabide Djedje. In 1993 she produced three short films, the most notable of which was \"L'Enfant terrible\" (\"The Terrible Child\"), co-produced with the Belgian workshop Graphoui. \"L'Enfant terrible\", which is based upon a Central African myth, is, like \"La Geste de Ségou\", an animated story that used puppets. It follows a benevolent spirit, a child which is born with teeth and the ability to talk and walk, who finds its older brother and begins an unusual journey. It remains her most highly acclaimed work.\n\nKonaté followed her short films by returning to documentaries, releasing \"Femmes et Développement\" in 1995. \"Femmes et Développement\" makes comparison between women in Mali from different socioeconomic groups. The film looks at what has been accomplished by women in her country and what still needs to be accomplished. In 1998 she directed \"Un mineur en milieu carcéral\", a short documentary which explored the plight of children who have been incarcerated, often for minor offenses.\n\nHer 2008 documentary \"Daman Da\" (\"Yellow Mirage\"), follows the day-to-day lives of gold miners in Mali. She was drawn to the topic after watching a local news report on the subject. The film showed the difficulties faced by the miners, working in crude conditions, but also the honesty and work ethic they displayed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59170916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59170916", "title": "Life of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All", "text": "Life of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All\n\nLife of the Party: A Political Press Tart Bares All is a 2011 memoir by Lisa Baron describing her time as a spokesperson for Ralph Reed.\n\nLisa Baron is a Jewish woman who, despite not sharing Reed's political reviews, went to work for him. Baron stated that the book reveals previously secret information including Reed's view of the Jack Abramoff Indian lobbying scandal and Baron's sexual life; Kirkus Reviews stated that sexual encounters \"seem almost quaint\" since there was a \"long list of prominent conservatives who have been caught doing much worse\".\n\nMichelle Goldberg, an opinion columnist of \"The New York Times\", characterized the book as \"a self-portrait of a cynical, fame-hungry narcissist\".\n\nKirkus Reviews described the book as \"A misguided focus on sex and booze overshadows the moments of insight and inspiration.\" It criticized the focus on social life over day-to-day life in politics.\n"}
{"id": "681819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681819", "title": "Michael Bishop, Baron Glendonbrook", "text": "Michael Bishop, Baron Glendonbrook\n\nMichael David Bishop, Baron Glendonbrook, CBE (born 10 February 1942) is a British businessman and life peer who rose to prominence as owner of the airline BMI. He sold his stake in the airline to Lufthansa on 1 July 2009 and has an estimated personal fortune of £280 million. He was one of the country's first executives.\n\nMichael Bishop was born in Bowdon, Cheshire. The son of a factory boss, aged six he was given a pleasure flight, and in 1949 his parents took him on an Aer Lingus flight to Dublin in search of chocolate, a rarity in the post-war rationing in Manchester.\n\nEducated at the independent Mill Hill School in north London, he enjoyed flying and as a result took a series of school holiday jobs with an aerial photographer.\n\nIn 1963, Bishop joined the ground handling operation of Manchester-based Mercury Airlines, a schedule and charter airline, which was taken over by British Midland Airways (later re-branded as BMI) in October 1964. Bishop joined British Midland, and rose to become General Manager of the airline in 1969 and Managing Director in 1972.\n\nIn 1978, the London-based Minster Assets investment group, which owned British Midland, decided to sell its stake. With the help of an entrepreneurial Californian dentist, Bishop raised £2.5 million to lead the management buy-out, and was subsequently appointed chairman: \"I had to borrow the money from an American citizen. Most venture capitalists want a return of 40% to make up for all their other failures, and they want an exit strategy.\" From 1969 he was the key driving force behind the steady growth of the airline, which held eleven percent of the landing and take-off slots at London Heathrow airport, second only to British Airways, with a route network spanning Europe, North America, Asia and Africa.\n\nBishop formerly held a controlling 50% + 1 share stake of BMI, with German airline Lufthansa holding 30% minus 1 share, and SAS Airlines a further 20%. In October 2008, under a deal agreed in 1999 as part of the package for BMI to join the Star Alliance, Bishop agreed to sell his 50% stake to Lufthansa for an undisclosed sum, though reports suggested it was about £318m. BDLH (LH's holding vehicle) acquired Bishop's share on 1 July 2009, assuming full control of the company.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1993, Bishop was deputy chairman of Channel 4 television, becoming chairman from 1993 to 1997. He was also a board member at Sir Nigel Rudd's Williams plc., and deputy chairman at Airtours.\n\nIn 1986, he was awarded the CBE, and in 1991 he was knighted. He was awarded an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Leicester on 12 July 2007.\n\nIn an annual survey by The Independent of the UK's most influential gay men and women, Bishop was ranked as number 5 in 2005 and number 6 in 2006.\n\nOn 1 February 2011, Bishop was created a life peer as Baron Glendonbrook, of Bowdon in the County of Cheshire, and was introduced in the House of Lords on 22 March 2011, where he sits as a Conservative\n\nBishop is openly gay and, since 2008, has spoken out publicly about gay rights and success in the workplace. Bishop is often referred to as \"dapper\" by the press to note his keen sense of elegance. A member of the Conservative Party since the age of 17, he is chairman of the Board of Trustees of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company—which performs the operas of Gilbert and Sullivan—due to his personal financial sponsorship. Bishop lives in London and at Bruern Abbey, West Oxfordshire, having purchased the 18th-century property in 2013. The Abbey has been completely refurbished under his ownership, including the installation of 'a large and impressive cantilever stone staircase and twenty-five kilometres of data cabling' as well as a 'large underground car park'.\n\n"}
{"id": "2244308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244308", "title": "Norbulingka Institute", "text": "Norbulingka Institute\n\nNorbulingka Institute, founded in 1995 by Kelsang and Kim Yeshi at Sidhpur, near Dharamshala, India, is dedicated to the preservation of the Tibetan culture in its literary and artistic forms.\n\nThe institute is named after Norbulingka, the traditional summer residence of the Dalai Lamas, in Lhasa, Tibet. The ground plan is based on the proportions of Avalokitesvara, the thousand-armed god of compassion, with the temple as the head.\n\nNorbulingka is dedicated to handing down tradition and restoring standards by providing training, education and employment for Tibetans. It supports an environment in which Tibetan community and family values can flourish. It reconciles the traditional creatively and respectfully with the modern, and seeks to create an international awareness of Tibetan values and their expression in art and literature. Norbulingka produces high quality, traditionally crafted art objects, as well as clothing and home furnishings. Free guided tours of the institute are available to visitors every day except Sunday. Workshop are also offered for those wishing to study Tibetan arts. The institute also runs two guesthouses—Norling Guesthouse and Chonor House. All proceeds from all Norbulingka's projects go directly back into the institute to further our endeavors to preserve Tibetan culture.\n\nNorbulingka's art studios include Tibetan statue making, thangka painting, screen-printing, applique and tailoring, woodcarving, wood painting, papermaking, and wood and metal craft.\n\nThe Academy of Tibetan Culture, established in 1997, offers a three-year course of higher education in traditional Tibetan studies, as well as English, Chinese, and world history.\n\nThe Research Department of Norbulingka houses the team composing the official biography of the Dalai Lama, of which nine volumes in Tibetan have already been published. The research section is also compiling a comprehensive encyclopedia of Tibetan culture.\n\nThe institute also has the two-storeyed 'Seat of Happiness Temple' (Deden Tsuglakhang) built in 1985 and set amidst the Japanese inspired Norbulingka gardens. It is known for its 1,173 murals of Buddha, frescoes of all the Dalai Lamas and drawings chronicling the life of the 14th Dalai Lama. In the main hall stands the 4 mt high gilded copper Buddha Sakyamuni statue, made by institute's master statue-maker, the late Chenmo Pemba Dorje, and one of largest such statues outside Tibet. Around the temple are workshops of artisans and apprentices that produce various art objects, which are sold at the Norbulingka Shop, for the benefit of Tibetan refugees.\n\nThe Losel Doll Museum has diorama displays of traditional Tibetan scenes, using miniature Tibetan dolls in traditional costumes.\n\nA short distance from the institute lies the Dolma Ling Buddhist nunnery, and the Gyato Monastery, temporary residence of the 17th Karmapa, Ogyen Trinley Dorje.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55052704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55052704", "title": "Norman Mailer Society", "text": "Norman Mailer Society\n\nThe Norman Mailer Society is a non-profit literary society dedicated to American author Norman Mailer. The Society promotes the legacy of its eponym by holding an annual meeting of scholars and enthusiasts, publishing \"The Mailer Review\", Project Mailer, and The NMS Podcast, awarding the Robert F. Lucid Award for the year's best scholarship, and encouraging continued interest in his work through all forms of media.\n\nOn July 11, 2002, J. Michael Lennon, Barry H. Leeds, and John Whalen-Bridge met Norman Mailer in Provincetown, Massachusetts to discuss the creation of the organization and gain Mailer's approval. Mailer's biographer Robert Lucid could not attend, but he was one of the original quartet planning the Society. Having received Mailer's blessing, the Norman Mailer Society was officially founded in 2003.\nDuring the American Literature Association's conference in Cambridge on May 22, 2003, there was a planning meeting and interim officers elected for the Norman Mailer Society.\nOn November 1, 2003, the Society had its inaugural meeting in Brooklyn prompted in part as a reaction to Mailer's being dropped from the sixth edition of \"The Norton Anthology of American Literature\" because (according to the editors) \"regular surveys of professors had shown declining use of Mr. Mailer's work\". Ron Rosenbaum, a \"New York Observer\" columnist, commented about the creation of the Society: \"It's good to recognize people for their service while they're still around to appreciate it\".\n\nNon-profit incorporation papers were filed in the State of New York, July 21, 2004, and were approved on September 14, 2004. The Society was incorporated in Windham, Connecticut in 2008.\n\nAt the 2017 conference, J. Michael Lennon and David Light stepped down as President and Treasurer respectively. The Board unanimously elected former-VP Maggie McKinley, chair of the English Department at Harper College, as President. Gerald Lucas (Professor of English at Middle Georgia State University) became VP and Jason Mosser (Professor of English at Georgia Gwinnett College) replaced Light as Treasurer.\n\nMembers meet annually for paper presentations, panel discussions, film viewings, and other activities centered around the life and work of Norman Mailer. In 2015, the Society reconvened in Provincetown, MA, for its annual conference, bringing together Society members, two of Mailer's daughters, and a reading of \"Tough Guys Don't Dance\", Mailer's 1984 novel about his adopted hometown.\nIn addition to an annual meeting, the Society undertakes the following activities: the maintaining of a website devoted to matters of interest to the membership, including a newsletter and bibliography updated semi-annually. Along with Provincetown and Brooklyn, conferences have been held in Washington (D.C.), Wilkes-Barre (PA), Long Branch (NJ), Sarasota (FL), and Macon (GA).\n\nNorman and Norris hosted Society members at post-conference parties, in 2003 at their house in Brooklyn Heights, and 2004 through 2007 at their Provincetown, MA residence. According to Lennon, the Mailers hosted keynote speakers at their house each year for lunch, including Neil Abercrombie and William Kennedy. At the 2006 conference in Provincetown, Mailer read from his new novel, \"The Castle in the Forest\", at the Provincetown Arts Theatre to a packed house of conference attendees and the general public.\n\nThe Society sponsored the 50th Anniversary March on the Pentagon that Mailer wrote about in his Pulitzer-Prize-winning book \"Armies of the Night\". Organized by the Vietnam Peace Commemoration Committee, the events took place on October 24, 2017 in Washington D.C.\n\nOn May 23, 2018, the Society co-sponsored with the city of Long Branch the installation of a bronze memorial to Mailer and the Scarboro Hotel. The hotel was run and eventually owned by the Mailer family until it burned down in 1941. Members of the Society and the local community attended the unveiling ceremony where the beachside hotel used to stand.\n\nDuring the fourth annual conference in Provincetown (October 12–14, 2006), the membership voted to establish the brainchild of Phillip Sipiora, \"The Mailer Review\", co-sponsored by the University of South Florida and edited by Sipiora and co-edited by Gerald Lucas. The journal is published annually in the fall.\n\nIn 2014 under the leadership of board member Gerald R. Lucas, the Society launched Project Mailer, a Digital Humanities initiative to \"augment Mailer Studies for a digital age\". Their first publication was an open-access, digital version of Mike Lennon's \"Norman Mailer: Works and Days\" that's \"meant to be read and used on the screen\".\n\nCreated and hosted by Society member Justin Bozung, The Norman Mailer Society Podcast had its premiere episode in February 2015. The Podcast is released twice monthly and features rare audio, interviews, analysis, and discussions about, as James Wolcott put it, the \"wooly-bully exploits\" of Norman Mailer.\n\nIn spring 2018, the Society sponsored the publication of Library of America's two-volume boxed set \"Norman Mailer: the Sixties\" edited by J. Michael Lennon. The set includes \"Four Books of the 1960s\" and \"Collected Essays of the 1960s\".\n\nIn 2003, the Society established The Robert F. Lucid Award for Mailer Studies in recognition of Lucid's long and distinguished career as a Mailer scholar. The Lucid Award is given annually based on the recommendation of a Society committee. The winner receives a plaque and a $250 honorarium, and he or she is invited to speak at the conference. Recent winners include Maggie McKinley for \"Understanding Norman Mailer\" in 2018, \nKevin Schultz for \"Buckley and Mailer: The Difficult Friendship that Shaped the Sixties\" in 2015, the Society's own president J. Michael Lennon for \"The Selected Letters of Norman Mailer\" in 2014, and again for \"Norman Mailer: A Double Life\" in 2013.\n\nSociety membership is open to all who share an interest in the Society's eponym. The Society consists of officers, an Executive Board, and general members from diverse backgrounds. They range from enthusiasts, academics, creatives, and politicians to family members and contemporaries of Mailer's. As of 2017, the Society has approximately 300 international members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41082254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41082254", "title": "Normansfield Theatre", "text": "Normansfield Theatre\n\nThe Normansfield Theatre is a Victorian era building located in Teddington, England.\n\nThe theatre is on the site of Normansfield Hospital, which was a self-sufficient Victorian hospital complex run by Dr John Langdon Down. The hospital was where Doctor Langdon Down conducted the pioneering research into the syndrome now known as Down's Syndrome. The theatre was constructed in 1877 and completed in 1879 for the use of the patients.\n\nThe theatre is held in care by the Langdon Down Centre Trust.\n\nWork on restoring the previously derelict Grade II* listed building began in 2010. It has now been converted for residential use and the former hospital workshops have been re-developed as social housing. The building has been removed from English Heritage’s At Risk register.\n\nIt is a popular filming location, such as for \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\" in the episode \"The Tragedy at Marsdon Manor\", \"The Case of the Missing Will\", \"Double Sin\" (1990), \"After the funeral (2005)\" the 2009 film \"Dorian Gray\" and the ITV series \"Downton Abbey\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10355490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10355490", "title": "Notre-Dame Affair", "text": "Notre-Dame Affair\n\nThe Notre-Dame Affair was an action performed by Michel Mourre, Serge Berna, Ghislain Desnoyers de Marbaix, and Jean Rullier, members of the radical wing of the Lettrist movement, on Easter Sunday, 9 April 1950, at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, while the mass was aired live on national TV. Mourre, dressed in the habit of a Dominican monk and backed by his co-conspirators, chose a quiet moment in the Easter High Mass to climb to the rostrum and declaim before the whole congregation a blasphemous anti-sermon on the death of God, penned by Berna.\n\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\n</poem>\nThe action and the events leading up to and following it are described in detail in Michel Mourre's autobiography. The authors of the action, young bohemians tied to Lettrism, an avant-garde movement surrounding Isidore Isou, were all arrested by the police, and thereby saved, in effect, from the furious mob that chased them from the church. The only one held for any length of time was Mourre, himself a former Dominican monk and the instigator of the whole affair. As his fate was being decided, dozens of prominent voices from culture, the church and the state joined a debate in the newspapers on the merits or (more commonly) not, of the provocation. \n\nIn particular \"Combat\", an organ of the French Resistance, began with a commentary by its editor Louis Pauwels condemning the action; but a vehement letter in response by André Breton, attacking Pauwels for his \"partial account,\" and defending the actions, escalated the debate; to it were devoted eight days of coverage and a running editorial forum amounting to a total of twenty-some articles by such figures as Jean Paulhan, Pierre Emmanuel, Maurice Nadeau, Messieur the Police Commissioner, le curé de Saint-Pierre de Chaillot, Gabriel Marcel, Benjamin Péret, and René Char.\n\nThe police and the Church, for their part, unable to let the insult pass unpunished, nevertheless wanted to avoid amplifying it through a public trial. After a few days they brought in a psychiatrist of questionable integrity, who recommended locking Mourre away in an asylum. Participants in the Combat debate, attentive to the case, protested, and upon the intervention of a second psychiatrist, Mourre was released on 21 April.\n\nThe scandal resonated into the heart of the Lettrist movement. Consistent with practices of agitation on which Isou had founded his movement in 1945, the Notre-Dame affair nevertheless put Isou's radicality, and that of his supporters, to the test. The action thus advanced a nascent rupture in the movement, between two blocs which could be called, respectively, \"artistic\" and \"actionist,\" a rupture which two years later would lead to a schism and formation of the Lettrist International. It was after Gil J. Wolman, Jean-Louis Brau, and Guy Debord, the principal agents of this schism, joined the Lettrist movement, siding with the actionist Ultra-Lettrist bloc still distinguished by the Notre-Dame Affair, and who, along with Ivan Chtcheglov and Berna, formed the LI. It was the LI, launched on the occasion of an intervention directed against Charlie Chaplin, that between 1952 and 1957 experimented with new forms of art and action that would lead to the Situationist International.\n\nThe contributors to the Combat debate sought to diminish the importance of the Notre-Dame action by pointing out that it was not entirely without precedent, as, on 22 March 1892, young Blanquistes had interrupted mass, shouting \"Long live the Republic! Long live the Commune! Down with the Church!\"\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "19258411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19258411", "title": "Novelty Theatre", "text": "Novelty Theatre\n\nThe Novelty Theatre (later renamed the Great Queen Street Theatre from 1900 to 1907, and the Kingsway Theatre from 1907 to 1941) was a London theatre. It opened in 1882 in Great Queen Street and was accessed off Little Queen Street until 1905, and from the new Kingsway road from 1905 onwards. It hosted the London premiere of \"A Doll's House\" in 1889. The theatre closed in 1941 and was demolished in 1959.\n\nThe first theatre on the site was built to designs by Thomas Verity with decorations by E. W. Bradwell, and opened on 9 December 1882. Its first show was the comic opera \"Melita or the Parsee's Daughter\", composed by Henry Pontet, with a libretto by Juba Kennerley. It hosted, among other notable works, a revival of \"Les Cloches de Corneville\" and \"Ascot\", by Percy Fendall, in 1883. Edward Solomon and James Mortimer's \"Polly or The Pet of the Regiment\" played at the theatre in 1884. \"The Blue Bells of Scotland\", by Robert Williams Buchanan, premiered at the theatre in 1887, followed by James Mortimer's \"The Alderman\" and Fred Marsden's \"Bob\", both in 1888. The Russian National Opera Company produced \"The Demon\" at the Novelty in 1888, and the theatre hosted the London premiere of Henrik Ibsen's \"A Doll's House\" in 1889. In August 1896, Wilfred Moritz Franks accidentally stabbed Temple E. Crozier fatally onstage during a performance of Frank Harvey's melodrama, \"Sins of the Night\". \"The Merchant of Venice\" was presented at the theatre in 1897.\n\nIts interior was rebuilt in 1898-1900 and 1907, reopening after the two reconstructions as the Great Queen Street Theatre (1900–1907) and Kingsway Theatre (1907–1941) respectively. From 1900 to 1907, W. S. Penley managed the theatre, producing and starring in \"A Little Ray of Sunshine\" by Mark Ambient and revivals of \"The Private Secretary\" and \"Charley's Aunt\" in 1900. It also featured the 1915 premiere of Pearn and Elgar's \"The Starlight Express\" and the London premiere of the musical \"Oh, Boy!\" in 1919, which ran for 167 performances.\n\nIn 1939 it hosted the premiere of Rutland Boughton's third symphony and finally closed on 11 May 1941. It was heavily bomb-damaged during the Blitz and remained closed until its demolition in 1959. Its site is now occupied by an extension of Newton Street into Great Queen Street, and an office block.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112836", "title": "PAJ (journal)", "text": "PAJ (journal)\n\nPAJ: A Journal of Performance and Art, originally Performing Arts Journal, is a triannual academic journal of arts that was established in 1976 by Bonnie Marranca and Gautam Dasgupta. It has taken a particular interest in contemporary performance art and features expanded coverage in video, drama, dance, installations, media, and music. The journal is published by special arrangement with the MIT Press. Issues can also be accessed through the online databases JSTOR and Project MUSE.\n\n\"PAJ\" integrates theatre and visual arts in an expanded view of performance history. The journal publishes essays, interviews and artists' writings, reviews of new exhibitions, performances, and books, and also, plays and performance texts from the United States and abroad. The journal publishes a play in each issue. In recent years \"PAJ\" has featured new series on performance drawings; art, spirituality and religion; dialogues on crossovers in performance and visual arts.\n\nPAJ Publications is the journal's book division, with more than 150 titles reviewed to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "13968770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968770", "title": "Painting of the Tarnovo Artistic School", "text": "Painting of the Tarnovo Artistic School\n\nThe painting of the Tarnovo Artistic School was the mainstream of the Bulgarian fine arts between 13th and 14th centuries named after the capital and the main cultural center of the Second Bulgarian Empire, Tarnovo. Although it was influenced by some tendencies of the Palaeogan Renaissance in the Byzantine Empire, the Tarnovo painting had its own unique features which makes it a separate artistic school. It includes mural decoration of churches, easel painting icons, and illuminated manuscripts. A few remains of mosaics have been found during archaeological excavation which shows that this technique was only rarely used in the Bulgarian Empire. The works of that school have some degree of realism, individualised portraits and psychological insight.\n\nFor the first time in Eastern Europe the tempera method became widespread in the murals of the Tarnovo School of Art. That technique allowed the work to proceed slower than the fresco method as well brighter and more saturated colouring and had potential for more additional colours. The fresco technique continued to be used, for instance in the beautiful frescoes of the Rock-hewn Churches of Ivanovo and the chapel of the Hrelyo Tower in the Rila Monastery.\n\nDuring the Second Empire the murals on the church walls closely encompassed every part of the surface: walls, vaults, columns, wall piers, arches, apses. Their positioning was in horizontal layers according to the church canon.\nOn the first layer were depicted saints who were usually stepped on a high painted plinth, which is one of the characteristic features of the School. Its lines imitated the panel plates of coloured marble. The selection of saints depended on the preferences of the \"ktitors\" or on the general theme of the frescoes. Typical feature of the Tarnovo Artistic School are the numerous depictions of warrior-saints. For instance, in the Boyana Church there are ten warrior-saints. Widely spread was the image St Demetrius of Salonica, the patron saint of the Asen dynasty, who was particularly popular in Bulgaria in 13th and 14th centuries. The \"ktitors\" were depicted in the narthex of the churches. Portraits of many noble Bulgarians from the Middle Ages have survived throughout the centuries due to that practice. In the Boyana Church are preserved the images of Emperor Constantine Tikh Asen, his wife Irina, \"sebastokrator\" Kaloyan and his wife Desislava. There is a beautiful fresco of Emperor Ivan Alexander in the ossuary of the Bachkovo Monastery and in the church of Dolna Kamenitsa there are eleven images: despot Michael (son of Michael Shishman) his wife an unknown noble holding a model of the church; his wife and children and two clerics. Images of warrior saints and ktitors were common in the preserved detailed mural paintings on the foundations of the churches in Trapezitsa. These paintings are featured with mild tones and a sense of realism in the rendered portraits and cloths. One of the churches in Trapeztisa was covered with mosaics. The palace church also had some mosaic decoration.\n\nThe unique and realistic portraits in the Boyana Church are considered to be forerunners of the Renaissance. The wall piers and the arches were often decorated with medallion-shaped bust images of saints. Magnificent examples of those can be observed in SS Peter and Paul Church in Tarnovo. Along with the traditional scenes such as \"Christ's passions\" and \"Feast cycle\" in the second layer; \"Christ Pantokrator\" in the dome and the Madonna with the infant Christ in the apse, there were also specific images and scenes. In the narthex of the SS. Forty Martyrs Church in Tarnovo there were frescoes of St Anna nursing the infant Mary and St Elisabeth nursing the infant John the Baptist, unfortunately the last one did not survive. The iconographic type \"Galaktotrophousa\" was a predecessor of the widely-spread images of Madonna with the infant Christ in Western Europe. Although it was canonical, that scene was rarely used in the Byzantine Iconography. In the 35 calendar scenes from the same church some of the characters were painted with contemporary garments. The large number of images of Jesus Christ in the Boyana Church makes an impression: \"Pantokrator\" (All-powerful); \"Emmanuel\" (Young man); \"Evergetes\" (Blessing); \"Mandilion\"; \"Keramidion\" and the unique image \"Christ Ancient of Days\" in which He is depicted as a white-bearded Old man.\n\nThеre are original themes in the Transfiguration of God Chapel in the Hrelyo Tower situated in the Rila Monastery. In the dome is depicted the composition \"Sophia-Great Wisdom of God\" and in the narthex \"Psalms of David\". The scenes \"Musicians\" and \"Horo\" are especially interesting because they represent the cloths and the way of living of the Bulgarians during the 14th century. There are scenes of Saint Ivan of Rila life. Although there are relatively few preserved monuments of the Tarnovo School of Painting, they refute the popular opinion that the religious murals are inveterate and that they are inappropriate for artistic imagination.\n\nThe archaeological research shows that some public edifices and the palaces were also richly decorated with mural paintings but unfortunately the few remaining fragments are not enough for the themes to be determined. The fragments of richly dressed men were discovered in the throne hall which suggests that probably the hall was decorated with the depictions of the Bulgarian Emperors and Empresses.\n\nThe most famous manuscripts are the Sofia Psalter, 1337, Tomić Psalter, c 1360, and the Gospels of Tsar Ivan Alexander, 1355–1356, now in Sofia, Moscow and London respectively. All are heavily illuminated.\n\nThe Tarnovo school continued and enriched the traditions and icon design of the First Bulgarian Empire. Some notable icons include \"St Eleusa\" (13th century) from Nessebar which is currently kept in the Alexander Nevski Cathedral in Sofia and \"St John of Rila\" (14th century) kept in the Rila Monastery. Like the Boyana Church frescoes in the second one there is realism and non-canonical design. Another feature of the school's iconography were the large icons which were made to fascinate the viewer. An example of such icon is the Poganovo icon in the cathedral of Sofia depicting St Mary with John the Baptist which was produced in 1395. It is double-sided and with a size of 93x61 cm.\n\nThe icons were produced with varied material. The famous ceramics icon from the Preslav School during the First Empire remained relatively popular during 13th century. Icons for domestic use were usually 30x35 cm while those in the church altar could reach very large sizes. Bulgarian icon painting declined after the Ottoman conquest of the country but those traditions were continued during the Bulgarian National Revival.\n\n"}
{"id": "45689618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45689618", "title": "Peng Collective", "text": "Peng Collective\n\nThe Peng Collective is a group of culture jamming activists based in Berlin. In 2016, the collective was part of the Berlin Biennale, in 2018 of the Manifesta Biennale and the Athens Biennale. In 2018, they where awarded the Aachen Peace Prize.\n\nThrough actions of tactical media, the Peng Collective wants to inspire other activists and civil society organisations to be more courageous in their campaigning methods. \"Let's learn from our enemies,\" one of their members says in an interview. \"If you look at the economics of corporations, their state of mind is: 'let's look at every possible gray area of laws and use them.' And NGOs just don't do that.\" They are known for wearing animal masks as sign of biological appropriation whenever they are on stage and to break the law \"whenever necessary for the greater good. And yes, the arts can be a greater good.\"\n\nThey got international media attention, when they held a presentation called \"Your data, our future\" in the Name of Google at Europe's largest tech conference in 2014. All presented products were designed to gather more data from the consumers, claiming that this is in their best interest. After Google threatened them to take down their parody website, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) supported them legally:\n\nInvited as fake persona to a conference of the oil company Shell, they created an oil spill on stage instead of the expected presentation. The evening was a public relations event organized by Burson Marsteller in Berlin, where one member of the Collective could enter the stage because he claimed to have created a car that is cleaning the air.\n\nIn 2015, the group infiltrated the Cinema for Peace Gala in Berlin with a fake polar bear and The Yes Men to go on stage and insist that divestment from fossil fuels is helping more against climate change than charity projects. Pussy Riot, who was invited as speaker to the charity gala came to support them, when the organizers of the event tried to silence them with security guards.\n\nIn May 2015, they developed a bot script that scans Twitter for abusive and sexist language. Once detected, plenty of automated Twitter profiles would reply to those tweets with an invitation to a self-help program for trolls to become feminists.\n\nIn September 2015, the Peng Collective staged an association named Intelexit helping anyone working for secret services to quit their jobs and transition to civil life, be it for ethical or psychological reasons. A spokesman of the British secret service GCHQ responded to the launch of the association, that GCHQ doesn't actually do anything illegal or immoral, and that staff can report any concerns they do have to managers or to GCHQ's own counselors. Furthermore, they responded to the Intelexits critique of their lack of ethical standards that the GCHQ \"has several formal lines of accountability and a culture and ethos of high ethical standards among our workforce.\" \n\nDuring the launch of the campaign, they rallied with an advertising trucks and mobile billboards in front of several secret services workplaces around the world like the German BND, the GCHQ Headquarters in the UK, the US military bases in Germany Dagger Complex and Lucius D. Clay Kaserne and the NSA's Headquarters in the USA, Maryland, where they also drove to the employees lunch place Café Joe They also performed an airborne leaflet operation over the Dagger Complex with a drone advertising for the exit program.\n\nIntelexit now operates phone booth installations in arts and journalists venues where participants can call up secret service employees such as the FBI, NSA, CIA and private subcontractors like Trovicor or Booz Allen Hamilton in the USA, but also officers from Germany, France, Canada and Great Britain. The organisation invites people to set up the call installation all over the world to create an ongoing dialogue between civil society and the intelligence community.\n\nIn Schwenke (Halver), Peng! had founded a fictitious CDU local association, which appealed to party leader Angela Merkel to campaign against the export of small arms in the next legislative period. This appeal was also reported in international media. Later the communication guerrilla action was confirmed by Peng!\n\nIn the same week, Peng! started an alleged recall of small arms from the manufacturer Heckler & Koch by sending letters to US arms dealers on its behalf. The web pages of Heckler & Koch in the USA and Germany were then provided for several days with the news that they had been the victims of a hacker attack and fake news.\n\nIn the same week, the group released a video documenting how they awarded a peace prize for the arms industry and how Thyssen Krupp Marine Systems only left shortly before the alleged award ceremony.\n\nAs part of this series of actions, Peng! published five legislative proposals for the renewal of the War Weapons Control Act and for the \"Rescue of Article 26 GG\".\n\nWith this Campaign PENG called people to snatch goods in supermarkets and to pay unions of the producers in the global south instead. They created an online-system with which it is possible to do so through their website, seemingly an online-shop. You can thus pay eight unions fighting for the rights of the workers while PENG is fighting for the introduction of a law in Germany with which you can take German companies accountable for the violation of human rights abroad.\n\nPENG created a photo-booth in which you could create portraits that contain your own face and from someone else by morphing them together. The technology was based on neural networks by OpenAI and megapixels by Adam Harvey. They themselves created a German passport that contained both one member from their team and Federica Mogherini. They also sent five passports to co-artists in Libya with whom they morphed the faces to let them enter Europa as both real and symbolic gesture of civil disobedience against the border regime.. The photo booth was further shown in Vienna and Munich on art exhibitions.\n\nOn the Athens Biennale 2018 named \"ANTI\", Peng contributed by installing a call center with six Greek employees payed by German tax money on minimum wage who are calling the financial regulation institutions for six weeks. They ask tem questions that are being posted on their website and try to get them to explain the logic of financial argumentation in understandable language. .\n\n"}
{"id": "7671565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7671565", "title": "Print room", "text": "Print room\n\nA print room is either a room or industrial building where printing takes place, or a room in an art gallery or museum, where a collection of old master and modern prints, usually together with drawings, watercolours and photographs, are held and viewed. The latter meaning is the subject of this article. \n\nA further meaning is a room decorated by pasting prints onto the wall in a quasi-collage style to form a sort of wallpaper, an 18th-century fashion, of which several examples survive. One of the largest, though atypically the prints are cut out around shapes, that are pasted well spaced apart, is at The Vyne, Basingstoke, Hampshire.\n\nFor conservation reasons works on paper cannot be permanently displayed, as light, temperature and humidity conditions leave them vulnerable to damage, normally limiting an open display to no more than 6 months. They are kept in inert, acid-free boxes, albums or portfolios behind closed doors; which considerations of space would dictate in any case for the vast majority. Where possible, they are mounted on archivally safe supports, but large collections still contain less important items loose in boxes. Storage may be in the same room as the viewing is done (the 'Reading-' or 'Study Room'), but as the largest collections have well over a million items stores are often located 'behind the scenes', along with the curators' offices. Typically, a large print room appears like a library reading room, and the visitor sits at a desk equipped with a stand or easel, fills in a request slip, and the material requested is brought out for them by curatorial staff, who are able to offer further information about works and artists. Visitors are often able to compare a selection of works by different artists, aiding connoisseurial study.\n\nMost national collections can be seen by the public more easily than is often realised. Usually, visitors of all sorts, whether researchers or not, are entitled to view works on paper not on display in the galleries, which will form the great majority of an institution's collection, thereby making print rooms an essential resource for enabling our understanding and appreciation of works on paper - in particular, how artists conceive of finished paintings through preparatory studies, and how printmaking traditions and techniques have evolved over the centuries. On a national level, print rooms tend to differ, each having their own specialism, however collections often overlap in content.\n\nThere are links to lists of print rooms at the end of this article; most lead to the gallery's or museum's web-pages, which explain visiting arrangements. In many cases appointments need to be made in advance, and proof of identity should usually be provided. While it is helpful to outline what you would like to see (including artists' names and catalogue numbers, which may be available online or in books), visitors are also usually welcome to discuss their needs more casually by phoning or emailing in advance of their appointment. It is important to remember that not all material will be available to view, depending on current loans and exhibitions commitments and the condition of works. Some especially fragile or valuable items may not normally be available for viewing.\n\nWithin the print room setting rules and regulations will vary from institution to institution. Some print rooms may allow visitors to photograph works (without a flash), while others may permit sketching. Though the V&A's Prints and Drawings Study Room allows photography, Tate Britain's Prints and Drawings Rooms do not - however at Tate visitors are allowed to sketch and paint in watercolour (with appropriate precautions).\n\nPrint Rooms need not be 'passive' spaces - though they are places for study (perhaps suggestive of quiet contemplation), they are also geared towards fostering creative engagement in diverse audiences. Several internationally renowned print rooms lead, or contribute to, a range of public educational programmes, including talks, tours and study days for groups. In particular, university print rooms, including those of the Yale University Art Gallery, are regularly set aside for art historical lectures.\n\nBecause of the historical development of museums, and also funding, prints and drawings are sometimes associated with library collections rather than collections of paintings. For example, in Paris the main print (but not drawings) collection is in the Bibliotheque Nationale de France, not the Louvre. In New York and Washington, both the main art museums (Metropolitan Museum of Art and National Gallery of Art Washington) and the libraries (New York Public Library and Library of Congress) all have important, though very different, collections. Sometimes, material from non-Western traditions - in particular, Asian material, including Japanese prints - may or may not be held in the same department, or the same institution.\n\nIn the US public libraries are officially more accessible than art museum print rooms, which are often privately funded and only open to academic researchers. But most public libraries with prints and drawings collections tend to house these in discrete rooms, where they are tended to by specialist works on paper curators (see, for example, the Art and Architecture Room and Prints and Photographs Room of New York Public Library).\n\nIn the UK national collections of art on paper are, in the main, publicly funded and thus widely accessible in gallery and museum print rooms; they rarely form part of library holdings. The UK's main collection of Western prints and drawings is held in the British Museum and includes fine examples by the Old Masters. The National Gallery holds no works on paper; only paintings and sculptures of the European tradition. Originally known as the national gallery of British art, Tate Britain holds British prints and drawings, which include the world's largest collection of watercolours, sketches and engravings by JMW Turner, historic works on paper from the late 18th and 19th centuries, and modern and contemporary British and International prints. The Victoria and Albert Museum's works on paper collection has a particularly broad remit, encompassing works of fine and applied art (including posters) as well as ephemera.\n\nWhen the British Museum's main collection and library collection separated in 1997, evinced by the establishment of the British Library (on separate premises in St Pancras), art on paper remained within the British Museum's Department of Prints and Drawings, with, for example, the exception of the library's East India Company collection which largely comprises maps and topographical drawings, now held within the Asia, Pacific and Africa Department of the British Library. Because of a decision in the late 19th century, where the bulk of the collection of topographical prints were classed with maps and put under the British Museum Library rather than the Prints and Drawings Department, these are now also in the British Library. The decision reflected the traditional view going back to the Renaissance that fine art required the use of the imagination, and that mere illustration of real scenes (often in practice considerably rearranged by the artist) did not qualify.\n\nWhen, conversely, the Victoria and Albert Museum united its art and library collections, with the establishment of the Word and Image division, the Prints and Drawings Study Rooms and the National Art Library, however, remained discrete entities, each with their own specialist staff (with different areas of academic and professional training) and facilities and services catered to the public's and collections' needs.\n\nOne of the relatively few print rooms to exist as a separate institution (rather than as part of a larger museum or library), the Albertina (Vienna) is by general consent the world's greatest collection of Western art on paper. The Berlin Kupferstichkabinett at Kulturforum is, similarly, a major museum with an exclusive focus on prints and drawings. Though housed in the same building as the main paintings collection, the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin, it has separate direction and administration. (The list of museums with major collections of European prints and drawings has some very incomplete figures on the holdings of major collections.)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288400", "title": "Provenance", "text": "Provenance\n\nProvenance (from the French \"provenir\", 'to come from/forth') is the chronology of the ownership, custody or location of a historical object. The term was originally mostly used in relation to works of art but is now used in similar senses in a wide range of fields, including archaeology, paleontology, archives, manuscripts, printed books and science and computing. The primary purpose of tracing the provenance of an object or entity is normally to provide contextual and circumstantial evidence for its original production or discovery, by establishing, as far as practicable, its later history, especially the sequences of its formal ownership, custody and places of storage. The practice has a particular value in helping authenticate objects. Comparative techniques, expert opinions and the results of scientific tests may also be used to these ends, but establishing provenance is essentially a matter of documentation. The term dates to the 1780s in English. Provenance is conceptually comparable to the legal term \"chain of custody\".\n\nIn archaeology and paleontology, the derived term provenience is used with a related but very particular meaning, to refer to the location (in modern research, recorded precisely in three dimensions) where an artifact or other ancient item was found. \"Provenance\" covers an object's complete documented history. An artifact may thus have both a provenience and a provenance.\n\nThe provenance of works of fine art, antiques and antiquities is of great importance, especially to their owner. There are a number of reasons why painting provenance is important, which mostly also apply to other types of fine art. A good provenance increases the value of a painting, and establishing provenance may help confirm the date, artist and, especially for portraits, the subject of a painting. It may confirm whether a painting is genuinely of the period it seems to date from. The provenance of paintings can help resolve ownership disputes. For example, provenance between 1933 and 1945 can determine whether a painting was looted by the Nazis. Many galleries are putting a great deal of effort into researching the provenance of paintings in their collections for which there is no firm provenance during that period. Documented evidence of provenance for an object can help to establish that it has not been altered and is not a forgery, a reproduction, stolen or looted art. Provenance helps assign the work to a known artist, and a documented history can be of use in helping to prove ownership. An example of a detailed provenance is given in the Arnolfini portrait.\n\nThe quality of provenance of an important work of art can make a considerable difference to its selling price in the market; this is affected by the degree of certainty of the provenance, the status of past owners as collectors, and in many cases by the strength of evidence that an object has not been illegally excavated or exported from another country. The provenance of a work of art may vary greatly in length, depending on context or the amount that is known, from a single name to an entry in a scholarly catalogue some thousands of words long.\n\nAn expert certification can mean the difference between an object having no value and being worth a fortune. Certifications themselves may be open to question. Jacques van Meegeren forged the work of his father Han van Meegeren (who in his turn had forged the work of Vermeer). Jacques sometimes produced a certificate with his forgeries stating that a work was created by his father.\n\nJohn Drewe was able to pass off as genuine paintings, a large number of forgeries that would have easily been recognised as such by scientific examination. He established an impressive (but false) provenance and because of this galleries and dealers accepted the paintings as genuine. He created this false provenance by forging letters and other documents, including false entries in earlier exhibition catalogues.\n\nSometimes provenance can be as simple as a photograph of the item with its original owner. Simple yet definitive documentation such as that can increase its value by an order of magnitude, but only if the owner was of high renown. Many items that were sold at auction have gone far past their estimates because of a photograph showing that item with a famous person. Some examples include antiques owned by politicians, musicians, artists, actors, etc.\n\nThe objective of provenance research is to produce a complete list of owners (together, where possible, with the supporting documentary proof) from when the painting was commissioned or in the artist's studio through to the present time. In practice, there are likely to be gaps in the list and documents that are missing or lost. The documented provenance should also list when the painting has been part of an exhibition and a bibliography of when it has been discussed (or illustrated) in print.\n\nWhere the research is proceeding backwards, to discover the previous provenance of a painting whose current ownership and location is known, it is important to record the physical details of the painting – style, subject, signature, materials, dimensions, frame, etc. The titles of paintings and the attribution to a particular artist may change over time. The size of the work and its description can be used to identify earlier references to the painting. The back of a painting can contain significant provenance information. There may be exhibition marks, dealer stamps, gallery labels and other indications of previous ownership. There may also be shipping labels. In the BBC TV programme \"Fake or Fortune?\" the provenance of the painting \"Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil\" was investigated using a gallery sticker and shipping label on the back. Early provenance can sometimes be indicated by a \"cartellino\" (a representation of an inscribed label) added to the front of a painting. However, these can be forged, or can fade or be painted over.\n\nAuction records are an important resource to assist in researching the provenance of paintings. \n\nIf a painting has been in private hands for an extended period and on display in a stately home, it may be recorded in an inventory – for example, the Lumley inventory. The painting may also have been noticed by a visitor who subsequently wrote about it. It may have been mentioned in a will or a diary. Where the painting has been bought from a dealer, or changed hands in a private transaction, there may be a bill of sale or sales receipt that provides evidence of provenance. Where the artist is known, there may be a catalogue raisonné listing all the artist's known works and their location at the time of writing. A database of catalogues raisonnés is available at the International Foundation for Art Research. Historic photos of the painting may be discussed and illustrated in a more general work on the artist, period or genre. Similarly, a photograph of a painting may show inscriptions (or a signature) that subsequently became lost as a result of overzealous restoration. Conversely, a photograph may show that an inscription was not visible at an earlier date. One of the disputed aspects of the \"Rice\" portrait of Jane Austen concerns apparent inscriptions identifying artist and sitter.\n\nProvenance – also known as \"custodial history\" – is a core concept of archival science and archival processing. The term refers to the individuals, groups, or organizations that originally created or received the items in an accumulation of records, and to the items' subsequent chain of custody. The principle of provenance (sometimes also termed the principle of \"archival integrity\" or \"respect des fonds\") stipulates that records originating from a common source (or fonds) should be kept together – where practicable, physically; but in all cases intellectually, in the way in which they are catalogued and arranged in finding aids. Conversely, records of different provenance should be preserved and documented separately. In archival practice, proof of provenance is provided by the operation of control systems that document the history of records kept in archives, including details of amendments made to them. The authority of an archival document or set of documents of which the provenance is uncertain (because of gaps in the recorded chain of custody) will be considered to be severely compromised.\n\nThe principles of archival provenance were developed in the 19th century by both French and Prussian archivists, and gained widespread acceptance on the basis of their formulation in the \"Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives\" by Dutch state archivists Samuel Muller, J. A. Feith, and R. Fruin, published in the Netherlands in 1898 (often referred to as the \"Dutch Manual\").\n\nSeamus Ross has argued a case for adapting established principles and theories of archival provenance to the field of modern digital preservation and curation.\n\n\"Provenance\" is also the title of the journal published by the Society of Georgia Archivists.\n\nIn the case of books, the study of provenance refers to the study of the ownership of individual copies of books. It is usually extended to include study of the circumstances in which individual copies of books have changed ownership, and of evidence left in books that shows how readers interacted with them.\n\nProvenance studies may shed light on the books themselves, providing evidence of the role particular titles have played in social, intellectual and literary history. Such studies may also add to our knowledge of particular owners of books. For instance, looking at the books owned by a writer may help to show which works influenced him or her.\n\nMany provenance studies are historically focused, and concentrated on books owned by writers, politicians and public figures. The recent ownership of books is studied, however, as is evidence of how ordinary or anonymous readers have interacted with books.\n\nProvenance can be studied both by examining the books themselves (for instance looking at inscriptions, marginalia, bookplates, book rhymes, and bindings) and by reference to external sources of information such as auction catalogues.\n\nIn transactions of old wine with the potential of improving with age, the issue of provenance has a large bearing on the assessment of the contents of a bottle, both in terms of quality and the risk of wine fraud. A documented history of wine cellar conditions is valuable in estimating the quality of an older vintage due to the fragile nature of wine.\n\nRecent technology developments have aided collectors in assessing the temperature and humidity history or the wine which are two key components in establishing perfect provenance. For example, there are devices available that rest inside the wood case and can be read through the wood by waving a smartphone equipped with a simple app. These devices track the conditions the case has been exposed to for the duration of the battery life, which can be as long as 15 years, and sends a graph and high/low readings to the smartphone user. This takes the trust issue out of the hands of the owner and gives it to a third party for verification.\n\nArchaeology and anthropology researchers use \"provenience\" to refer to the exact location or find spot of an artifact, a bone or other remains, a soil sample, or a feature within an ancient site, whereas \"provenance\" covers an object's complete documented history. Ideally, in modern excavations, the provenience is recorded in three dimensions on a site grid with great precision, and may also be recorded on video to provide additional proof and context. In older work, often undertaken by amateurs, only the general site or approximate area may be known, especially when an artifact was found outside a professional excavation and its specific position not recorded. The term \"provenience\" appeared in the 1880s, about a century after \"provenance\". Outside of academic contexts, it has been used as a synonymous variant spelling of \"provenance\", especially in American English.\n\nAny given antiquity may have both a provenience (where it was found) and a provenance (where it has been since it was found). A summary of the distinction is that \"provenience is a fixed point, while provenance can be considered an itinerary that an object follows as it moves from hand to hand.\" Another metaphor is that provenience is an artifact's \"birthplace\", while provenance is its \"résumé\", though this is imprecise (many artifacts originated as trade goods created in one region but were used and finally deposited in another).\n\nAside from scientific precision, a need for the distinction in these fields has been described thus:\nIn this context, the \"provenance\" can occasionally be the detailed history of where an object has been since its creation, as in art history contexts – not just since its modern finding. In some cases, such as where there is an inscription on the object, or an account of it in written materials from the same era, an object of study in archaeology or cultural anthropology may have an early provenance – a known history that predates modern research – then a provenience from its modern finding, and finally a continued provenance relating to its handling and storage or display after the modern acquisition.\n\nEvidence of provenance in the more general sense can be of importance in archaeology. Fakes are not unknown, and finds are sometimes removed from the context in which they were found without documentation, reducing their value to science. Even when apparently discovered \"in situ\", archaeological finds are treated with caution. The provenience of a find may not be properly represented by the context in which it was found (e.g. due to stratigraphic layers being disturbed by erosion, earthquakes, or ancient reconstruction or other disturbance at a site. Artifacts can also be moved through looting as well as trade, far from their place of origin and long before modern rediscovery. Further research is often required to establish the true provenance of a find, and what the relationship is between the exact provenience and the overall provenance.\n\nIn paleontology and paleoanthropology, it is recognized that fossils can also move from their primary context and are sometimes found, apparently \"in-situ\", in deposits to which they do not belong because they have been moved, for example, by the erosion of nearby but different outcrops. It is unclear how strictly paleontology maintains the \"provenience\" and \"provenance\" distinction. For example, a short glossary at a website (primarily aimed at young students) of the American Museum of Natural History treats the terms as synonymous, while scholarly paleontology works make frequent use of \"provenience\" in the same precise sense as used in archaeology and paleoanthropology.\n\nWhile exacting details of a find's provenience are primarily of use to scientific researchers, most natural history and archaeology museums also make strenuous efforts to record how the items in their collections were acquired. These records are often of use in helping to establish a chain of provenance.\n\nScientific research is generally held to be of good provenance when it is documented in detail sufficient to allow reproducibility. Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations. Data sets are reliable when the process used to create them are reproducible and analyzable for defects. Current initiatives to effectively manage, share, and reuse ecological data are indicative of the increasing importance of data provenance. Examples of these initiatives are National Science Foundation Datanet projects, DataONE and Data Conservancy, as well as the U.S. Global Change Research Program. Some international academic consortia, such as the Research Data Alliance, have specific group to tackle issues of provenance. In that case it is the Research Data Provenance Interest Group.\n\nWithin computer science, informatics uses the term 'provenance' to mean the lineage of data, as per data provenance, with research in the last decade extending the conceptual model of causality and relation to include processes that act on data and agents that are responsible for those processes. See, for example, the proceedings of the International Provenance Annotation Workshop (IPAW) and Theory and Practice of Provenance (TaPP). Semantic web standards bodies, including the World Wide Web Consortium in 2014, have ratified a standard data model for provenance representation known as PROV which draws from many of the better-known provenance representation systems that preceded it, such as the Proof Markup Language and the Open Provenance Model.\n\nInteroperability is a design goal of most recent computer science provenance theories and models, for example the Open Provence Model (OPM) 2008 generation workshop aimed at \"establishing inter-operability of systems\" through information exchange agreements. Data models and serialisation formats for delivering provenance information typically reuse existing metadata models where possible to enable this. Both the OPM Vocabulary and the PROV Ontology make extensive use of metadata models such as Dublin Core and Semantic Web technologies such as the Web Ontology Language (OWL). Current practice is to rely on the W3C PROV data model, OPM's successor.\n\nThere are several maintained and open-source provenance capture implementation at the operating system level such as CamFlow, Progger for Linux and MS Windows, and SPADE for Linux, MS Windows, and MacOS. Other implementations exist for specific programming and scripting languages, such as RDataTracker for R, and NoWorkflow for Python.\n\n\nIn the geologic use of the term, provenance instead refers to the origin or source area of particles within a rock, most commonly in sedimentary rocks. It does not refer to the circumstances of the collection of the rock. The provenance of sandstone, in particular, can be evaluated by determining the proportion of quartz, feldspar, and lithic fragments (see diagram).\n\nSeed provenance refers to the specified area in which plants that produced seed are located or were derived. Local provenancing is a position maintained by ecologists that suggests that only seeds of local provenance should be planted in a particular area. However, this view depends on the adaptationist program – a view that populations are universally locally adapted. It is maintained that local seed is best adapted to local conditions, and that outbreeding depression will be avoided. Evolutionary biologists suggest that strict adherence to provenance collecting is not a wise decision because:\n\nProvenance trials, where material of different provenances are planted in a single place or at different locations spanning a range of environmental conditions, is a way to reveal genetic variation among provenances. It also contributes to an understanding of how different provenances respond to various climatic and environmental conditions and can as such contribute with knowledge on how to strategically select provenances for climate change adaptation.\n\nThe term \"provenance\" is used when ascertaining the source of goods such as computer hardware to assess if they are genuine or counterfeit. Chain of custody is an equivalent term used in law, especially for evidence in criminal or commercial cases.\n\nSoftware provenance encompasses the origin of software and its licensing terms. For example, when incorporating a free, open source or proprietary software component in an application, one may wish to understand its provenance to ensure that licensing requirements are fulfilled and that other software characteristics can be understood.\n\nData provenance covers the provenance of computerized data. There are two main aspects of data provenance: ownership of the data and data usage. Ownership will tell the user who is responsible for the source of the data, ideally including information on the originator of the data. Data usage gives details regarding how the data has been used and modified and often includes information on how to cite the data source or sources. Data provenance is of particular concern with electronic data, as data sets are often modified and copied without proper citation or acknowledgement of the originating data set. Databases make it easy to select specific information from data sets and merge this data with other data sources without any documentation of how the data was obtained or how it was modified from the original data set or sets.\nThe automated analysis of data provenance graphs has been described as a mean to verify compliance with regulations regarding data usage such as introduced by the EU GDPR.\n\nSecure Provenance refers to providing integrity and confidentiality guarantees to provenance information. In other words, secure provenance means to ensure that history cannot be rewritten, and users can specify who else can look into their actions on the object.\n\nA simple method of ensuring data provenance in computing is to mark a file as read only. This allows the user to view the contents of the file, but not edit or otherwise modify it. Read only can also in some cases prevent the user from accidentally or intentionally deleting the file.\n\n\nProvenance in book studies\n\n"}
{"id": "56048090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56048090", "title": "Punchinello Players", "text": "Punchinello Players\n\nPunchinello Players, founded in 1914, was a theatre organization of the University of Minnesota. When it closed it was the second oldest student-run community theater in the U.S. Punchinello - located on the St. Paul campus - originated for the purpose of improving the lives of the greater community, and as a University-associated theater it continued that purpose throughout its existence via production of chosen works. Punchinello Players closed in 1994 due primarily to its home, North Hall (formerly a student dormitory), being slated for demolition.\n\nBack to the Farm\n\n\"Back to the Farm\" was a two-year production (1913–1915) written by School of Agriculture student Merline H. Shumway and directed by Estelle Cook to create awareness of the University's new Agricultural Extension Program in the rural communities of Minnesota. \n\"Back to the Farm\" was created to demonstrate the value of scientifically trained farmers. It centers around a farm family in which the father is an old-school farmer, who isn't open to his sons' new ideas about how to do things. The son leaves the farm and enrolls at a nearby agricultural college for their 4-year program. They mend their relationship and he returns to the farm, implementing what he's learned - with the result that the farm becomes the most productive in the state. \nInitially presented at County Fairs around the state, its popularity exceeded expectations and the play continued to tour at farmers' institutes and other educational sessions, eventually being performed fifty times in the first year and many more times for years afterwards. Follow-up plays including \"Kindling the Hearth Fire\" and \"Partners\" - written/directed by Shumway, Cook and others - were also well received, and in those years a set of plays were created, performed and made available in bulletin form for communities to perform themselves.\n\nThe Agricultural Extension Program (along with General Extension, founded 4 years later in 1913) was instituted to increase the university's outreach. George Edgar Vincent - University President from 1911-1917 - put in place innovative programming including 'University Weeks' with plays, lectures, concerts and debates similar to the Chautauqua Institute he had previously led, in the spirit of increasing educational and cultural opportunities for the general public.\n\nThose initial rural productions of \"Back to the Farm\" launched the existence of Punchinello Players in 1914, originally under the name the Minnesota Agriculture Dramatic Club. The organization changed its name to Punchinello Players in 1923.\n\nThe first committed, long-term faculty advisor of Punchinello was William J. Routledge, who steered the organization from its beginnings through till the 1940-1941 school year.\n\nStarting with the 1941-1942 school year, Francis E. Drake was Faculty Advisor, but Punchinello - like many University organizations - was largely dormant during World War II.\n\nPunchinello's faculty advisor and frequent production director for over three decades was William M. Marchand, Humanities Professor of the Rhetoric Department, CFANS. Bill Marchand had a PhD in theatre, and prior to coming to the University in 1960 he had co-founded the Paul Bunyan Theatre, a summer theatre in Bemidji.\n\nPunchinello took over the former cafeteria area of North Hall (formerly a dormitory) in the 1960s, while O. Meredith Wilson was president.\n\nPunchinello had operated out of various spaces prior to that point, including the Ag Auditorium during the 1940s and one of the World War II -era temporary buildings on the St. Paul Campus through the 1960s.\n\nWhen Wilson became aware of that, he felt that something better could be arranged. Soon, Punchinello had a new home. The theater proper (in the former cafeteria) sat 119, and there were various other spaces in the building that Punchinello used for props, costumes, sets, the green room and dressing rooms.\n\nPunchinello mainly performed traditional classics as well as some musicals, and the occasional newer work. Among the rare melodrama/related productions were \"Kind Lady\" by Edward Chodorov, in 1942. and \"Dracula\" (from the novel by Bram Stoker) in 1969. Comedies have included \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" by Oscar Wilde in 1973 and \"Hay Fever\" by Noel Coward in 1978. Punchinello produced the metatheatrical play Our Town by Thornton Wilder in 1969.\n\nPunchinello often explored social issues, with sell-out productions such as \"The Crucible\" by Arthur Miller and \"Waiting for Godot\" by Samuel Beckett in 1983, as well as lesser known works including \"Play with a Tiger\" by Doris Lessing in 1979 and \"Shadow Box\" by Michael Cristofer in 1982.\n\nThe students who were involved often were sometimes but not always theater majors, representing the range of disciplines within the University.\n\nIts final two productions continued that tradition: William Saroyan's \"The Time of Your Life\" was the second-to-last production. The final production, directed by William Marchand, was Thornton Wilder's \"Our Town\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312805", "title": "Reasons and Persons", "text": "Reasons and Persons\n\nReasons and Persons is a 1984 philosophical work by Derek Parfit, in which the author discusses ethics, rationality and personal identity.\n\nIt is divided into four parts, dedicated to self-defeating theories, rationality and time, personal identity and responsibility toward future generations.\n\nPart 1 argues that certain ethical theories are \"self-defeating\". One such theory is ethical egoism, which Parfit claims is 'collectively self-defeating' due to the prisoner's dilemma. Ultimately, Parfit rejects \"common sense morality\" on similar grounds.\n\nIn this section, Parfit does not explicitly endorse a particular view; rather, he shows what the problems of different theories are. His only positive endorsement is of \"impersonal ethics\" – impersonality being the common denominator of the different parts of the book.\n\nPart 2 focuses on the relationship between rationality and time, dealing with questions such as: \"should we take into account our past desires?\", \"should I do something I will regret later, even if it seems a good idea now?\", and so on.\n\nOne of Parfit's arguments is as follows: self-interest theorists consider the differences between different persons at the same time as significant in terms of rationality, but do not consider the difference between the same person at different times to be as significant. But if, as Parfit argues, a reductionist theory of personal identity holds, then the difference between different persons at the same time is more like the difference between the same person at different times. So, if reductionism is true, self-interest theorists are inconsistent in viewing spatial relations as significant but temporal relations insignificant. Thus, the foundations of the self-interest theory are undermined by non-reductionism, which lends support to the present-aim theory of rationality, the critical version of which Parfit favours.\n\nPart 3 argues for a reductive account of personal identity; rather than accepting the claim that our existence is a deep, significant fact about the world, Parfit's account of personal identity is like this:\n\nAt time 1, there is a person. At a later time 2, there is a person. These people seem to be the same person. Indeed, these people share memories and personality traits. But there are no further facts in the world that make them the \"same person\".\n\nThen the teleporter is upgraded. The teletransporter on Earth is modified to not destroy the person who enters it, but instead it can simply make infinite replicas, all of whom would claim to remember entering the teletransporter on Earth in the first place.\n\nUsing thought experiments such as these, Parfit argues that any criteria we attempt to use to determine sameness of person will be lacking, because there is no further fact. What matters, to Parfit, is simply \"Relation R,\" psychological connectedness, including memory, personality, and so on.\n\nParfit continues this logic to establish a new context for morality and social control. He cites that it is morally wrong for one person to harm or interfere with another person and it is incumbent on society to protect individuals from such transgressions. That accepted, it is a short extrapolation to conclude that it is also incumbent on society to protect an individual's \"Future Self\" from such transgressions; tobacco use could be classified as an abuse of a Future Self's right to a healthy existence. Parfit resolves the logic to reach this conclusion, which appears to justify incursion into personal freedoms, but he does not explicitly endorse such invasive control.\n\nParfit's conclusion is similar to David Hume's view, and also to the view of the self in Buddhism, though it does not restrict itself to a mere reformulation of them. For besides being \"reductive\", Parfit's view is also \"deflationary\": in the end, \"what matters\" is not personal identity, but rather mental continuity and connectedness.\n\nPart 4 deals with questions of our responsibility towards future generations, also known as population ethics. It raises questions about whether it can be wrong to create a life, whether environmental destruction violates the rights of future people, and so on.\n\nOne question Parfit raises is this: given that the course of history drastically affects what people are actually born (since it affects which potential parents actually meet and have children; and also, a difference in the time of conception will alter the genetic makeup of the child), do future persons have a right to complain about our actions, since they likely wouldn't exist if things had been different?\n\nAnother problem Parfit looks at is the \"mere addition paradox\", which supposedly shows that it is better to have a lot of people who are slightly happy, than a few people who are very happy. Parfit calls this view \"repugnant\", but says he has not yet found a solution.\n\nBernard Williams described \"Reasons and Persons\" as \"brilliantly clever and imaginative\", and commended it as part of a wave of work in analytic philosophy that deals with concrete moral problems rather than abstract meta-ethics.\n\nPhilip Kitcher wrote in his review of Parfit's \"On What Matters\" that \"Reasons and Persons\" \"was widely viewed as an outstanding contribution to a cluster of questions in metaphysics and ethics\".\n\nPeter Singer included \"Reasons and Persons\" on a top ten list of favourite books in \"The Guardian\", stating that \"Parfit's penetrating thought and spare prose make this one of the most exciting, if challenging, works by a contemporary philosopher\". Sam Harris included it on a similar list of his own, describing the work as \"incredibly insightful\" and \"written as though by an alien intelligence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14105815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14105815", "title": "Red Bull Music Academy", "text": "Red Bull Music Academy\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy (RBMA) is a world-traveling series of music workshops and festivals, founded in 1998 by Red Bull. The main five-week event is held in a different city each year. The public portion of its program is a festival of concerts, art installations, club nights and lectures by influential figures in contemporary music. The other part of the program is by invitation only, held in a building which has been custom-fitted with a large recording studio, a lecture hall, a radio booth and between eight and twelve bedroom-sized studios. There, 60 up and coming producers, singers, sound artists, DJs and musicians from around the world learn from and collaborate with top industry professionals.\n\nYear-round, the Red Bull Music Academy maintains an online magazine, radio station (Red Bull Radio) and lecture video archive. The Academy hosts additional music workshops and club nights and curates stages at festivals in around 60 countries worldwide.\n\nThe Academy was initiated in 1998 in Berlin and has taken place annually in subsequent years in Toronto, London, São Paulo, Seattle, Cape Town, Rome, London, Melbourne, New York, Madrid, Barcelona,Tokyo, Paris, Montréal and Dublin. While the first few editions saw a greater emphasis on DJ culture, the program and recording facilities now accommodate all genres and aspects of the musical spectrum.\n\nProspective applicants to the Academy must prepare a demo CD of their work, be it original productions, songs or a DJ set, along with a completed questionnaire, and mail it to a Red Bull Music Academy office in Cologne, Germany. From there, each application is taken into consideration, with no quota on country or musical genre. From these applications, 60 are selected and broken down into two groups of 30. Each group of 30 is flown in to the location of the respective year's event for one of two fortnightly \"terms\". In 2012, the Academy received over 4000 applications to take part in the 2013 New York City edition.\n\nFor two weeks, the participants have the opportunity work in up to twelve studios specially designed for every edition of the Red Bull Music Academy. There, they have access to a range of the latest gear as well as analog equipment for music production and performance. There are no deadlines or set quotas, and Red Bull does not own the music produced in the building. These collaborative sessions are in part facilitated by the Academy’s \"Studio Team\", all experienced music producers in various fields. Twice daily, participants attend lectures by guest speakers who range from composers, producers, sound engineers and technological pioneers, to rappers and industry professionals. Lecture attendance is the only compulsory part of the program.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy does not seek to select or create \"stars\", instead bringing together music makers with a wide range of talents, skill levels and cultural backgrounds. Notable former participants include Aloe Blacc, Branko of Buraka Som Sistema, Bahrainian oud player Hasan Hujairi, Juan Son, Natalia Lafourcade, Nina Kraviz, David Eriksson of Teenage Engineering, Blackcoffee, Flying Lotus, Salva and Andreya Triana.\n\nThe Academy also publishes a yearly double-CD compilation of music produced at the respective last edition entitled 'Various Assets – Not For Sale'. Since 2004, those compilations have featured original music from more than 300 artists, including Dorian Concept, Flying Lotus, Lusine, Theo Parrish, Aloe Blacc, Mark Pritchard, XXXchange, Om’Mas Keith of Sa-Ra, Illuminated faces, Tony Allen, Mr Hudson, Dennis Coffey, Hudson Mohawke, DJ Zinc, Wally Badarou, Benga, Phonte, Jake One, Steve Spacek of Spacek, and Natalia Lafourcade.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy hosts additional workshops and three-day Base Camp sessions in more than 60 countries every year. These events resemble the actual Academy in consisting of music lectures, hands-on production workshops, studio sessions, art exhibitions, and night time activities such as concerts and club events. There is a strong focus on local topics as well as an international perspective.\n\nAlso, the Red Bull Music Academy has partnered with some of the most prominent music festivals, such as Sónar, Mutek, Movement: Detroit's Electronic Music Festival, Melt!, Notting Hill Carnival, Oxegen, Meltdown, Monegros Desert Festival, Splendour In The Grass, Bestival and the Winter Music Conference. The Academy curates stages at these festivals, and/or hosts workshops or one-off concerts in tandem with the festivals.\n\nIn 2005, the Red Bull Music Academy launched the Internet radio station Red Bull Radio that broadcasts interviews, live recordings and DJ mixes from more than 50 countries, via a 24/7 live stream and on-demand. RBMA Radio enjoys an average of 600,000 listeners online per month and is syndicated to terrestrial radio stations in over 30 countries. RBMA Radio’s mobile app for iOS, Android, WindowsPhone, and Symbian has been downloaded more than 500,000 times.\n\nAs a function of Red Bull Music Academy's efforts to create awareness for the Academy and promote its artists, Academy alumni also have further support, bookings and promotion through Red Bull Music Academy channels after the sessions are over. Many tours, local events and major festival bookings are pulled from the roster of past Red Bull Music Academy participants.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy was co-founded by Many Ameri, Christopher Romberg and Torsten Schmidt, of the consultancy company Yadastar (Christopher Romberg left the company in 2011). In 1997, beverage manufacturer Red Bull approached Yadastar about implementing some method of fostering discourse about underground dance culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "28358174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28358174", "title": "Remarks on Colour", "text": "Remarks on Colour\n\nRemarks on Colour () was one of Ludwig Wittgenstein's last works, written during a visit to Vienna in 1950 while dying of cancer. Believing that philosophical puzzles about colour can only be resolved through attention to the involved language-games, he considers Goethe's propositions in the \"Theory of Colours\", and the observations of Philipp Otto Runge in an attempt to clarify the use of language about colour.\n\nWittgenstein was interested in the fact that some propositions about colour are apparently neither empirical nor exactly a priori, but something in between: phenomenology, according to Goethe. However, he took the line that 'There is no such thing as phenomenology, though there are phenomenological problems.' He was content to regard Goethe's observations as a kind of logic or geometry. Wittgenstein took his examples from the Runge letter included in the \"Farbenlehre\", e.g. \"White is the lightest colour\", \"There cannot be a transparent white\", \"There cannot be a reddish green\", and so on. The logical status of these propositions in Wittgenstein's investigation, including their relation to physics, was discussed in Jonathan Westphal's \"Colour: a Philosophical Introduction\" (1991).\n\nAlthough \"Remarks on Colour\" is considered difficult on account of its fragmentation, his last work, \"On Certainty\" (German: Über Gewissheit) is considered to be his most lucid.\n\n"}
{"id": "30873244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873244", "title": "Return code", "text": "Return code\n\nIn computer programming, a return code or an error code is an enumerated message that corresponds to the status of a specific software application. They are typically used to identify faults, such as those in faulty hardware, software, or incorrect user input.\n\nExit status is the return code of computer programs running as processes, and is communicated through system calls.\n\nNetwork protocols typically support returning status codes. In the TCP/IP stack, it's a common feature of higher level protocols. For example:\n\n\nError codes are used in various methods of solving the semipredicate problem. They are generally similar to exception handling in programming languages that support it.\n\nError codes are slowly disappearing from the programmer's environment as modern object-oriented programming languages replace them with exceptions. Exceptions have the advantage of being handled with explicit blocks of code, separate from the rest of the code. While it is considered poor practice in methodologies that use error codes and return codes to indicate failure, programmers often neglect to check return values for error conditions. That negligence can cause undesirable effects, as ignored error conditions often cause more severe problems later in the program. Exceptions are implemented in such a way as to separate the error handling code from the rest of the code. Separating the error handling code from the normal logic makes programs easier to write and understand, since one block of error handling code can service errors from any number of function calls. Exception handling also makes the code more readable than implementations with error codes, since exception handling does not disrupt the flow of the code with frequent checks for error conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33376439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33376439", "title": "Soumak", "text": "Soumak\n\nSoumak (also spelled Soumakh, Sumak, Sumac, or Soumac) is a tapestry technique of weaving strong and decorative textiles used as rugs and domestic bags. Baks used for bedding are known as Soumak Mafrash. Soumak is a type of flat weave, somewhat resembling but stronger and thicker than kilim, with a smooth front face and a ragged back, where kilim is smooth both sides. Soumak lacks the slits characteristic of kilim, as it is usually woven with supplementary weft threads as continuous supports.\n\nThe technique involves wrapping coloured weft threads over and under the warp threads, adding strength and embroidery-like pattern.\n\nThe technique of making a soumak involves wrapping wefts over a certain number of warps (usually 4) before drawing them back under the last two warps. The process is repeated from selvedge to selvedge. The wefts are discontinuous; the weaver selects coloured threads in turn, and wraps each within the area which is to have that particular colour. Unlike kilim, the back is left ragged, with all the loose ends of the differently-coloured weft threads visible, sometimes several inches long, providing extra thickness and warmth. Also unlike kilim, there are no slits where colours meet, as there is a supplementary or structural weft which supports the coloured pattern weft. Some late Soumaks made by the Kurds are however \"weftless\", lacking the structural weft support, and the stitches naturally overlap.\n\nSoumaks tend to be finely woven, and although not as durable as piled carpets, they are stronger than kilims. The soumak wrapping often covers the whole surface of a bag or rug, but it can equally be applied in decorative strips, contrasting with the plainer and thinner flatweave areas. For example, camel bags from Malatya in Eastern Turkey could be woven in simple flatweave stripes of red and blue, with broad strips of soumak weft-wrapping with motifs for fertility and protection.\n\nBags were sometimes woven with a face of soumak, with a tapestry-woven kilim-like top creating slits between blocks of colour: a rope was threaded in and out of the series of slits to fasten and close the bag. Sizes vary, from carpet format through bags for bedding or for use on pack animals, to tiny tribal domestic bags. The following images show the appearance and construction of just such a soumak saddle bag, woven in Luristan at the end of the 20th century. The Lurs sometimes, as here, combine soumak and knotted carpet piling to adorn a single piece. To form the motifs, the weaver may push the weft threads about to form curves or slanting shapes as desired.\n\nSoumak products are made in the Caucasus (especially the Shirvan region), Southern and Western Persia including Luristan, Turkish Anatolia, by the Shahsavan tribe and the Kurds in north-western Persia, and by the Baloch people on the Persia–Afghanistan border.\n\nThe name Soumak may plausibly derive from the old town of Shemakja in Azerbaijan, once a major trading centre in the Eastern Caucasus. Other theories include an etymology from Turkish \"sekmek\", to skip up and down, meaning the process of weaving; or from any of about 35 species of flowering plant in the Anacardiaceae or sumac family, such as dyer's sumach (\"Cotinus coggygria\"), used to make dyestuffs. If this last is the source of the name, then it is derived from the Arabic and Syriac word \"summāq\", red.\n"}
{"id": "6143598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6143598", "title": "Stella Crawford", "text": "Stella Crawford\n\nStella Crawford is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", played by Sophie Thompson from 7 September 2006 to 23 July 2007.\n\nStella is introduced as Phil Mitchell's (Steve McFadden) new lawyer. They begin dating but Phil's son Ben Mitchell (Charlie Jones) is unhappy about it. Stella moves in with them and Ben tries breaking them up. Stella tricks him into trusting her, and attempts to end his friendship with Abi Branning (Lorna Fitzgerald). After some time, Stella begins physically and mentally abusing Ben. She later forces Ben to get Phil to propose to her, and lies that she has taken a job in Manchester. Phil proposes and she accepts. She continues tormenting Ben by calling him names, pinching him and manipulating him to confess to things he has not done. She also convinces him that he caused a car accident that he and Phil were involved in. Ben then goes to football camp during the school holidays, upsetting Stella. Ben returns, and Stella creeps into his room and tells him she loves him, knowing Phil is listening outside. This finalises Phil's feelings towards her and he is determined to marry for Ben. Ben tells Abi what is happening, but he believes it is a normal part of growing up that will happen to her too. The pair try to run away from home, but Stella stops them. She smashes a photo of Ben's mother, and says he is too pathetic to be Phil's real son. Abi later realises what Stella is doing and stands up to Stella.\n\nOn the day of Phil and Stella's wedding day, Ben tells Stella he does not want her to be his mum and Stella threatens Ben, warning him to keep quiet. Halfway through the ceremony, Ben confesses what Stella has been doing to him. Stella runs home, spills orange juice on Ben's bed and takes a picture of Phil and Ben, tearing Phil out and keeping the piece with Ben tucked in her bra. Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) sees Stella in shock who says she has discovered something out about Phil. Phil bursts into the Vic and Ian tells Stella to go. She takes the car again and Phil follows her to an abandoned factory, where she locks the gates so Phil cannot get to her. She says that in her childhood, she was always blamed for her sister's death and she felt like she was a ghost in her own home and she feels the same with Phil, and that when she feels like in a dream she sometimes has to pinch herself to wake herself up. Phil, reasoning that Stella is insane, drives his car into the gates and runs after her onto the roof. She threatens to jump off unless Phil says he loves her. Phil answers that he chose her because he thought she was \"easy\", \"safe\", and would \"look after Ben, iron [his] shirts and keep [her] mouth shut for the next 30 years\". Stella looks down from the roof and then jumps, killing herself instantly. Phil publicly declares that he killed her at the Vic and is arrested for murder, but CCTV shows that she jumped.\n\nIn January 2012, Denise Fox (Diane Parish) is led to believe that Phil had murdered her husband Kevin Wicks (Phil Daniels) in late December 2007. Denise later suspects that Phil pushed Stella to her death on their wedding day, but Phil denies her accusations and insists that Stella committed suicide. However, Denise goes to the police, telling them she believes that Phil murdered Stella. Ben (now Joshua Pascoe) goes to the police and tells police officer DCI Jill Marsden (Sophie Stanton), who has been trying to imprison Phil for years, that Phil forced Stella to jump, telling her that if she did not, then he would push her. Phil is then arrested for Stella's murder and is later charged. Phil is later released when Ian reveals to Marsden that Ben had lied about Phil murdering Stella.\n\n In July 2007, the entertainment website \"Digital Spy\" interviewed Sophie Thompson about the basics of her character Stella. She revealed that even though her character is a very nasty piece of work, nobody has shouted any comments to her on the street. She commented: \"I've been pleasantly surprised. Occasionally you get the odd kid laughing and pointing but it's not been unpleasant at all. I've been amazed by the amount of post you get up at Elstree and how thoughtful the correspondence is. It's really nice to read a letter and see how people become engaged and involved in the storylines and want to have a good yarn about them!\"\n\nStella was created solely as a love interest for the character Phil Mitchell. When Steve McFadden, who plays Phil, returned to the show in October 2005, a story conference was held between the show's producers, who decided that his relationship with his son Ben would take priority over any new love interests. Another story conference was held in February 2006, where it was decided to introduce a new love interest. \"EastEnders\"' series story producer, Brigie de Courcy, said; \"To create her, we took all of Phil's past lovers and came up with somebody completely different from them!\"\n\nProducers created a \"wish list\" of actresses they wanted to see. The \"EastEnders\" casting director offered the role to Sophie Thompson, who accepted. Producers were so excited that the whole office cheered when they found out that Thompson had accepted the role. Thompson has said of the role that \"joining \"EastEnders\" is a bit like being welcomed into a really special playground that you never thought you had the chance to play in, and you are rather in awe of all the kids, but very excited.\"\n\nWhen she was first introduced, Stella appeared to be a scatterbrained but well-meaning character who lived on her own and had developed something of a drink problem when Phil first met her. She dryly comments on this, saying \"You're getting a basic picture of a spinster here, aren't you? You're probably wondering if I've got any cats.\" However, as the show went on and her relationship with Phil's son, Ben, was explored, it became clear that Stella was a deranged and mentally unstable character, who psychologically and physically abused Ben whilst manipulating him in her attempts to improve her relationship with his father. Supposedly, Stella's instability is a result of parental neglect. This is hinted at by her telling Ben that his friend Abi Branning was an unpleasant and untrustworthy person, probably as a result of poor parenting. Later in the same episode, she picks up a Mother's Day picture that she did with Ben and glares at the word \"Mother\" before later tearing up the card. It is known that something ghastly happened to Stella's sister for which her parents blamed her. However, it is never revealed what happened to her or how, or if it was Stella's fault. This is later confirmed to be true when she tells Phil Mitchell that as a child she was ignored by her parents and felt like a ghost within her own home.\n\nStella, at times, gives the impression of being emotionally immature, a frequent side-effect of parental neglect. An interview with Sophie Thompson says that Charlie Jones who plays Ben mused that her vicious nature is caused by the fact that she had a very unhappy childhood.\n\n\"Radio Times\" included Stella in their feature on bunny boilers. They stated that anyone who falls in love with Phil needs \"their head examined\". They added that she was manipulative and \"proved to be a basket-case\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55413089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55413089", "title": "Stella Oyedepo", "text": "Stella Oyedepo\n\nStella Moroundia Oyedepo (sometimes Stella Dia Oyedepo) (born c. 1954) is a Nigerian playwright.\n\nOyedepo has written over 300 plays over the course of her career; of these, only around 30 have been published. She takes as her subject daily life and problems, and her work often addresses such themes as marriage, corruption, politics, and family life. A typical example is her 1988 play \"The Greatest Gift\", which contrasts the life of a family destroyed by the father's drunkenness with the life of a successful family. Her 2001 play \"Brain Has No Gender\" was written for the Kwara State Ministry of Education for Women-in-Science Programme. Her first play, \"Our Wife is Not a Woman\", was written in 1979. Oyedepo's origins are from Ondo State. She trained as a linguist, and for some time in the 1980s she served as Senior Principal Leturer at the Kwara State College for Education in Ilorin. She has also served as director of the Kwara State Council for Arts and Culture. Many of her plays were commissioned for specific occasions.\n"}
{"id": "2398131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398131", "title": "Tactile graphic", "text": "Tactile graphic\n\nTactile graphics, including tactile pictures, tactile diagrams, tactile maps, and tactile graphs, are images that use raised surfaces so that a visually impaired person can feel them. They are used to convey non-textual information such as maps, paintings, graphs and diagrams.\n\nTactile graphics can be seen as a subset of accessible images. Images can be made accessible to the visually impaired in various ways, such as verbal description, sound, or haptic (tactual) feedback.\nOne of the most common uses for tactile graphics is the production of tactile maps.\n\nThe types and forms of tactile maps began with the oldest and most rudimentary or a mixed media format. This tactile map is produced by simply attaching objects to a substrate to represent different items or symbols. More recent tactile maps are produced by computers through different means such as an ink-jet printers.\n\nThermoform is one of the most common methods of producing tactile maps. This process is also known as vacuum forming. Thermoform maps or plans are created from a process where a sheet of plastic is heated and vacuumed on top of a model or master. The master can be made from many substances, although certain materials are more durable than others. Since this process involves creating a mold, it is somewhat time consuming.\n\nSwell paper has a special coating of heat-reactive chemicals. Microcapsules of alcohol implanted in the paper fracture when exposed to heat and make the surface of the paper inflate. Placing black ink on the paper prior to a heat process provides control over the raised surface areas. This type of map is not as robust as the Thermoform map, but can be produced with less effort and expense.\n\nModified Braille embossers can also be used to produce tactile paper maps.\n\nInk-jet tactile maps are made by layering a specially designed ink. Each layer is cured by UV irradiation before the next layer is added. This technology is an offshoot of other industries, such as circuit board manufacturing and biomedical applications.\n\nThe substrate for tactile maps is a very important attribute, since different materials can enhance or reduce legibility and durability. Several types of substrates can be used to produce a tactile map. These include rough and smooth plastic, rough and smooth paper, microcapsule paper, Braillon, and aluminum. Many factors should be considered when choosing a substrate; these include but are not limited to function, durability, and portability.\n\nTactile map variables: Just as Jacques Bertin retinal variables help determine how visual maps are produced; tactile maps have a formula as well. Although researchers have not standardized tactile map variables, these nine are usually included depending on the \"substrate\": vibration, flutter, pressure, temperature, size, shape, texture/grain, orientation, and elevation.\n\nTypical tactile elevations: Thermoformed maps usually have an elevation of at least 1mm. Swell Paper averages 0.5 mm and braille embossers have a range from 0.25–1 mm. Ink-jet printers can be controlled to vary elevation as needed. A (2009) study conducted by Sandra Jehoel tested various height levels and estimated that preferred tactile elevations fall between 40 and 80 micrometres depending on the substrate background, shape of the object and smoothness of lines. Symbols such as a triangle, square and a circle should have a minimum base line length of 6.4, 5.0 and 5.5 mm respectively for proper recognition.\n\nAudio tactile maps or graphic tablets are interactive devices. Electronic tactile talking touch pad instruments use Macromedia Flash software with audio files to convey information to the blind or visually impaired user. As the user’s finger engages a feature or symbol a recording provides information about the object, symbol or area. For example, the sound of splashing water can be used for areas such as rivers or oceans. This format has great potential for transmitting information over the Internet which can be downloaded to a computer or hand-held device. \nA great deal of hardware already exists that can be used by the blind or visually impaired to interact with computer screen graphics. A vibrating mouse or other force feedback devices can be adapted to turn any visual software generated map into a hybrid tactile map. The interactive signal to a device can be varied when crossing a boundary or symbol.\n\nHigh resolution refreshable braille displays containing 1,500 to 12,000 pixels are already available in market. Graphic braille display available in the market is DV-2 (from KGS ) with 1,536 pixels, Hyperbraille with 7,200 pixels and TACTISPLAY Table/Walk (from Tactisplay Corp.) with 2,400/12,000 pixels respectively. TACTISPLAY table has total 12,000 pixels arranged in 120x100.\n\nZoom maps are a recently developed tactile map. These maps are designed specifically for those who can read braille and have had no previous interaction with tactile maps. The term zoom is comparable to a zoom-able visual raster internet map. A country is divided into regions on the first map then the next zoomed map will have a breakdown of the regions and so forth until a city level is reached. These successive maps rely on a dependable texture as the map zoom progresses. This produces a familiarity as one zooms from the proceeding map. This is achieved in many instances with line orientation, area and consistent shape. The Braille text on the map is placed next to a rectangular textured legend for area identification.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28383361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28383361", "title": "The Eclipse (James Fenimore Cooper)", "text": "The Eclipse (James Fenimore Cooper)\n\nThe Eclipse is an autobiographical vignette by James Fenimore Cooper that was written between 1833 and 1838, recounting his own experience witnessing a total solar eclipse in Cooperstown on the morning of June 16, 1806. It was published posthumously in the September 1869 issue of \"Putnam's Monthly Magazine\". Susan Fenimore Cooper, the author's daughter, found it among his papers.\n\n\"The Eclipse\" by James Fenimore Cooper, at Cornell University Library \n"}
{"id": "47309058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47309058", "title": "The Life of Henry Brulard", "text": "The Life of Henry Brulard\n\nThe Life of Henry Brulard () is an unfinished autobiography by Stendhal. It was begun on November 23, 1835 and abandoned March 26, 1836 while the author was serving as the French Consul in Civitavecchia. Stendhal had severe doubts about contemporary interest in his autobiography, so he bequeathed it to the reader of 1880, or of 1935, or 2000. The manuscript, including Stendhal's numerous diagrams and illustrations, was published in 1890. Stendhal primariliy discusses his unhappy and dull childhood, touching briefly on his time as a soldier. \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" is considered a masterpiece of autobiographical writing and ironic self-reflection.\n\n\"The Life of Henry Brulard\" begins in 1832, with Stendhal on the Janiculum (named for Janus, the two-faced god of beginnings) looking down at Rome. He begins questioning his accomplishments as he approaches 50 years of age. He reflects on the churches and monuments of the city and how much they have changed since he was a young man. He heads home through a cold mist at night and decides he will reflect upon his past until its truth emerges. He also decides to write as fast as he can without revising, to avoid lies. He believes a quickly-written rough draft would, like automatic writing, disclose the truth about himself. Stendhal explicitly compares himself with Rousseau and calls \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" his own \"Confessions\". In reality, Stendhal was 52 years old when he began the memoir and the first scene is a small fiction. The first chapter was written in two days in November 1835, and Stendhal also claims that \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" is an imitation of Oliver Goldsmith's novel \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". \n\nStendhal notes at the start that other men's biographies naturally focus on their public career. Stendhal himself campaigned with Napoleon in Russia and became consul at Civitavecchia. But Stendhal asserts that his real life can be found in a list of names: Virginie, Angela, Adele, Melanie, Mina, Alexandrine, Angelina, Metilde, Clementine, Giulia, Madame Azur, Amalia. Stendhal says that none of these women ever honored him with her favors and, despite others who did, the “habitual condition of my life is that of an unhappy lover.”\n\nStendhal forthrightly admits to wanting to sleep with his mother, who died when he was seven. While discussing his childhood in Grenoble, Stendhal describes how Eighteenth-century French society habitually crushed his natural feelings. He often compares his father to a tyrant or king, on slender pretenses: young Henry is not allowed to play with other kids, not allowed to leave home at age 10, and must accompany his father on walks. Stendhal's descriptions of scenes from his youth often provoke present-moment commentaries, blurring together the feelings of a young boy and the reflections of a middle-aged man. \n\nStendhal only found happiness when he crossed the Alps into Italy as a 17-year-old in Napoleon's army. Stendhal describes the first time in his life that he mounted a horse, which went berserk and ran towards the willows on the shore of Lake Geneva. For a quarter of an hour he was in fear of breaking his neck. This became a favorite motif of Stendhal's; the heroes of \"The Red and the Black\", \"Lucien Leuwen\", and \"The Charterhouse of Parma\" all fall off their horses. Stendhal loved Italy, which he considered a land where his truest self could be freely expressive without fear of reprisals. \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" ends with the beginning Stendhal's love for Italy and his mistress Angela Pietragrua, countess Simonetta. Stendhal asks, \"How can I talk reasonably about those times? I prefer to put it off until another day...What does one do? How does one describe one's wildest happiness?\" Stendhal ends the work by saying, \"One spoils such tender feelings by recounting them in detail.\"\n"}
{"id": "28950968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28950968", "title": "The Night of Enitharmon's Joy", "text": "The Night of Enitharmon's Joy\n\nThe Night of Enitharmon's Joy, often referred as The Triple Hecate or simply Hecate, is a 1795 work of art by the English artist and poet William Blake which depicts Enitharmon, a female character in his mythology, or Hecate, a chthonic Greco-Roman goddess of magic and the underworld. The work presents a nightmarish scene with fantastic creatures. \n\n\"The Triple Hecate\" is painted with deep tones and bold masses. Blake employed a new technique whose \"effect is darker and richer than [his] illuminated books\". One scholar interprets his colour print \"Hecate\" thus:\n\n\"She is triple, according to mythology: a girl and a boy hide their heads behind her back. Her left hand lies on a book of magic; her left foot is extended. She is attended by a thistle-eating ass, the mournful owl of false wisdom, the head of a crocodile (blood-thirsty hypocrisy), and a cat-headed bat.\"\n\nBlake often drew on Michelangelo to create and compose his epic images, including Hecate's, according to a consensus of critics. \"Blake is indebted to Michelangelo for many of his giant forms\". Michelangelo contributed many \"characters to Blake's gallery of mythic persons and heroes\". Regarding the \"Hecate\" colour print, a suggested trail may be traced. From Michelangelo, Blake copied his early sketch entitled \"The Reposing Traveller\", which then evolved into a figure for his work (1795-1797) regarding \"Night Thoughts\", and also into the similarly posed figure of Hecate here.\n\nThe image may also allude to the Three Fates — the Moirai of Greek mythology and the Parcae of Roman. Notwithstanding these allusions, critics point out that a contemporary trigger for Blake's inspiration probably was the return popularity of Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\". As Hecate listens offstage, the three witches, in arranging Macbeth's doom, chant: \"Double, double, toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble\". Each witch in turn adds her verses, the second's being:\n\nHence, bat, owl, snake or frog would be appropriate to \"The Triple Hecate\". \n\nBlake printed his illuminated \"Europe a Prophecy\" in 1794. The bulk of the book, according to one scholar, \"is devoted to \"the night of Enitharmon's joy\", when she establishes her Woman's World with its false religion of chastity and vengeance: a religion of eighteen hundred years, which is the error of official Christianity.\" In other words, it is said to represent a Feminine Will over a patriarchal Christianity. Blake's character is described as \"the Moon of love to Los's Sun\", hence its relationship with Hecate, one of the Moon Goddesses alongside Diana/Artemis and Selene. She is also invoked in \"Hamlet\", in the play within the play method, by the (actor) Lucianus: \"With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected, Thy natural magic and dire property [...]\" but in \"\" Enitharmon's night is presented in this way:\n\nThere are other literary sources for the myth of Hecate, such as \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid, VI 140, VII 74, 94, 174, 177, 194, 241, XIV 44, 405, and Blake himself: \"The Gods all Serve her at her will; so great her Power is, like fabled Hecate, she doth bind them to her law.\" (Blake, \"\"). But not only in his poetry \"The Triple Hecate\" makes a connection: it is seen as an opposition to his painting \"Pity\", circa 1795, where the piety provides a \"possibility of salvation\" in the fallen world. Here, both witchcraft and curse, associated with Hecate, are factors to human perdition. Geoffrey Keynes wrote about it:\n\nThe image was created in a time in which Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\" had a revival, being performed nine times. Like other works by Blake, such as \"The Ghost of a Flea\", the picture is part of W. Graham Robertson's private collection and was presented to the Tate Gallery by himself in 1939. It is considered to be one of the most brilliant and significant pictures of William Blake.\n\n"}
{"id": "27481830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481830", "title": "United States Society for Education through Art", "text": "United States Society for Education through Art\n\nThe United States Society for Education through Art (USSEA) is an American national association whose members work in curriculum development, teaching and research related to art education and cultural differences, and who share interests in art educational content and strategies which promote tolerance and appreciation of the arts of non-mainstream cultural peoples. The mission of the society is to promote greater understanding and respect for learners from all ethnic, minority, and socio-cultural backgrounds through research, art curricula, instruction, and practices that are inclusive and culturally sensitive.\n\nThe society provides a platform for networking and a resource base for art educators nationally and internationally, who seek to work collaboratively on projects of interest to multicultural or cross-cultural communities and students, publishes instructional resources for classroom teachers, encourages and sponsors cross-cultural research, and facilitates international and intra-national professional relationships through online sites, symposia, conferences, and publications.\n\nEach year, USSEA honors one national and one international art educator, each of whom has demonstrated exemplary teaching, service, or research in the area of multicultural or cross-cultural art education with the Ziegfeld Art Education award. The \"Journal of Cultural Research in Art Education\" is a publication of USSEA that is made available to all members of the art educational profession. Through the website, members may access suggestions and recommendations for appropriate multi-culturally oriented K-12 art lessons, and receive up-to-date news and information about USSEA initiatives, programs and opportunities. Additionally, exhibitions of children's art from countries around the world are presented at national conferences of art educators and through an online gallery of children's art, which is organized by topical themes and maintained on the USSEA website.\n\nUSSEA was founded in 1977 as an affiliate of the International Society for Education Through Art (InSEA) and the National Art Education Association (NAEA). The goals of USSEA reflect, on a national level, the goals of its international parent organization InSEA, which in turn, was inspired by the spirit of postwar hope and optimism of its parent affiliate UNESCO. In a paper describing the early history of InSEA, the motivational energy and overarching goals of UNESCO and InSEA are explained.\n\n\"The world had just come through a terrible and protracted war, one initiated by false philosophies working on ignorance through massive control of free speech. The impulse in 1945, to try to ensure that it did not happen again, and that people should understand each other better through education and all forms of cultural and scientific exchanges, the passionate emphasis on truth, justice, peace and the importance of the individual – these impulses were irresistible.\"\n\nThese sentiments, which gave root to InSEA in 1954, are also guiding principles of USSEA. Art educator Kenneth Marantz was instrumental in establishing the United States organization and served as its first president. Other founding members who served as officers included Maryl Fletcher De Jong, Larry Kantner, Eugenia Oole, Helen Patton, and Tom Sletterhaugh.\n\nAs a means of disseminating shared ideas about the importance of teaching art to increasingly diverse populations and to develop research agenda for determining effective practices of multicultural art education, USSEA began sponsored conferences and symposia. Fourteen such events were held between 1977 and 2010. The topics addressed included \"Limits and Extents of International Research in Art Education\" (1977), \"Art Education: The Pacific Basin\" (1982), \"International Aspects of Teaching Aesthetics and Critical Skills\" (1987), \"Indigenous People, Art, and Place: Interactions of Culture and Environment in Contemporary Life\" (1994) and \"Crossing Cultural, Artistic, and Cyber Borders\" (2000), and \"Youth and Community Development: How the Arts Serve Economically Impoverished Communities\" (2010). The 1991 USSEA Symposium, \"Beyond the Traditional in Art: Facing a Pluralistic Society,\" resulted in the publication of working papers and research agenda that helped focus cultural art educational research and practices during the late 20th and early 21st century.\n\nSince 1986, USSEA has presented two annual awards in the name of Edwin Ziegfeld, founding president of InSEA (1954–1960) and NAEA (1947–1951), to honor an American art educator and a foreign art educator who have made distinguished leadership contributions to international art education. These awards are presented to the recipients during a USSEA Awards banquet held during the annual NAEA conference.\n\nThe first issue of the USSEA publication \"The Journal of Multicultural and Cross-cultural Research in Art Education\" was issued in 1983 with Larry Kantner as senior editor. In 2001, the title of the journal was changed to the \"Journal of Cultural Research in Art Education\" (JCRAE). Articles published in JCRAE focus on social/cultural research relevant for art education, including cultural foundations of art education, cross-cultural and multicultural research in art education, and cultural aspects of art in education. These areas may be interpreted in a broad sense to include arts administration, art therapy, community arts organizations, and other disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches relevant to art education. Articles considered for publication may feature theoretical research and research in which qualitative and/or quantitative methods as well as other formats and strategies are employed. In addition to the publication of a journal, USSEA sponsors monographs and sponsors or endorses books that address issues of interest and concern to art educators.\n\n"}
{"id": "19248433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248433", "title": "Unwanted Cinema", "text": "Unwanted Cinema\n\nUnwanted Cinema is a documentary film by Petrus van der Let and Armin Loacker that looks at the lives and careers of Jewish filmmakers in Budapest and Vienna during the 1930s after Hitler came to power. \"Unwanted Cinema\" features Henry Koster, Felix Jackson, Joe Pasternak, Otto Wallburg, Hans Jaray, Franziska Gaal, Rosy Rarsony, Hortense Raky, Oskar Pilzer, Zolan Vidor, Ernst Verebes. The documentary shares clips from their films and interviews with their family.\n\nOn his American debut, director Henry Koster stood in the lobby waiting to see if the audience would laugh at his film. If they laughed, he knew he could make a career for himself. If they didn’t, he’d have to return to Europe, where he could be killed by the Nazis. The audience laughed uncontrollably. \"Unwanted Cinema\" profiles Koster and other Jews who were involved in the movie business before and during World War II, as they struggled to preserve both their careers and their lives.\n\nUntil the dawn of Hitler, Jewish actors and producers throughout Europe enjoyed critical acclaim and stardom. But once anti-Semitism began to spread, it threatened not only their celebrity but also their lives. Filmmakers and actors moved to Vienna and Budapest where their “unwanted cinema” was produced independently. Later, in hopes of escaping war-torn Europe, many Jews involved in cinema traveled to Hollywood to test their skills and their luck.\n\nThe documentary points to both the cruelty and irony of anti-Semitism. Talent that was “unwanted” in Europe because of prejudice was celebrated on the other side of the ocean. The charming clips interspersed throughout the documentary prove the injustice of rejecting Jewish talent. 100 Men and a Girl, which was nominated for five Oscars, is just one example of the exceptional films that these refugees were responsible for.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54195781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54195781", "title": "Writers Theatre", "text": "Writers Theatre\n\nWriters Theatre is a non-profit theatre company founded in 1992 and located on the North Shore of Chicago in Glencoe, Illinois. Michael W. Halberstam, the founder of the company, has been artistic director since its inception and Kathryn M. Lipuma has been executive director since 2007.\n\nIn 1992, Writers Theatre was founded in order to create an environment where the written word and the nurturing of artists were the foundation of all productions. Writers Theatre opened its first venue in the ante-room of a newly opened bookstore in Glencoe. Because of its growing reputation and audience, a second 108-seat performance space was opened in 2003 in The Woman's Library Club of Glencoe on Tudor Court. The company has produced more than 100 productions, including more than 20 world premieres.\n\nIn 2007, Writers Theatre debuted nationally with a New York premiere of \"Crime and Punishment\" adapted by Marilyn Campbell and Curt Columbus, which has received more than 30 subsequent regional theater productions.\n\nIn 2011, Lincoln Center Theater produced another work that began at Writers Theatre: \"A Minister's Wife\", a musical adaptation of George Bernard Shaw's \"Candida\", conceived and directed by Halberstam, with music by Joshua Schmidt, lyrics by Jan Trannen and book by Austin Pendleton.\n\nIn November 2013, Writers Theatre announced the launch of the \"On To a New Stage Campaign\", a fundraising campaign with a $34 million capital project goal, which includes a cash reserve, to establish the company's first permanent home in a new theatre center in downtown Glencoe, designed by the award-winning Studio Gang Architects and Jeanne Gang, FAIA, in collaboration with Theatre Consultant Auerbach Pollock Friedlander. The new building was completed and opened to the public in February 2016. The inaugural production in the new building was Tom Stoppard's \"Arcadia\", which opened in March 2016 to critical acclaim.\n\nWriters Theatre has grown to become a cultural destination with a national reputation for excellence, being called \"America's No. 1 theatre company\" by \"The Wall Street Journal\", who said in 2008, \"The best drama company [in the nation] is to be found not in New York, but in Glencoe,\" and in 2016 named Writers Theatre \"Company of the Year,\" adding \"The best regional drama company in America now has a home worthy of its shows.\" The company, which plays to a sold-out audience of more than 50,000 patrons each season, has garnered critical praise for the consistent high quality and intimacy of its artistry. Its 2010 production of \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" directed by David Cromer was reviewed as \"the most uniformly well-acted production yet seen\" by The New York Times. It has garnered numerous awards and accolades, including 113 Joseph Jefferson Award nominations and 26 awards. Artistic Director Michael Halberstam was named the Chicago Tribune's 2013 \"Chicagoan of the Year\" for Theater, received The 2010 Zelda Fichandler Award, and in 2016 was honored for outstanding theatrical accomplishments and contributions to Chicago theatre by the Joseph Jefferson Awards, and received an Award of Honor from the Illinois Theatre Association.\n"}
{"id": "1529398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529398", "title": "Zecchino d'Oro", "text": "Zecchino d'Oro\n\nZecchino d'Oro (; meaning \"Golden Sequin\") is an international children's song festival that has taken place every year since 1959. It is broadcast by Rai 1.\n\nIt was started by Cino Tortorella, and the first two festivals were held in Milan. In 1961, the festival was taken up by the Antoniano Institute and moved to Bologna. In 2009, Cino Tortorella left Zecchino d'Oro.\nIn 1963, Mariele Ventre, a conductor and director of young performers, created the Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano Children's Choir (called Piccolo Coro \"Mariele Ventre\" dell'Antoniano after her death in 1995, and directed by Sabrina Simoni).\nFrom 1976 the festival took on an international perspective - each year seven Italian songs and seven foreign songs are sung by children and voted for by a children's jury. The winning song is rewarded with the Zecchino d'Oro award.\n\nAs has been regularly stated during the event, the winners of the Zecchino d'Oro and Zecchino d'Argento are the writers and composers of the songs, not the children who interpret them. This rule applies to all editions.\n\nYounger songwriters are Yumiko Ashikawa (芦川祐美子, 7, who also has sung her song), Miruna Codruța Oprea (13), Ioachim Octavian Petre (13) and Lara Polli (13).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49141958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49141958", "title": "Zoomorphic architecture", "text": "Zoomorphic architecture\n\nZoomorphic architecture is the practice of using animal forms as the inspirational basis and blueprint for architectural design. \"While animal forms have always played a role adding some of the deepest layers of meaning in architecture, it is now becoming evident that a new strand of biomorphism is emerging where the meaning derives not from any specific representation but from a more general allusion to biological processes.\"\n\nThe practice is said by some to be a reaction against some of the modern schools of architecture, such as Modernism and their apparent opposition to nature and organic form. Commenting on the movement away from these rigid and artificial design trends, Susannah Hagan, in her book \"Taking Shape\", has this to say: \"The oppositions between culture and nature, so importantly and brutally drawn up by modernism, are dissolving again, not in a return to what was, but a transformation of it...The division between the living organism and the machine continues to collapse.\"\n\nSome well-known examples of Zoomorphic architecture can be found in the TWA Flight Center building in New York City, by Eero Saarinen, or the Milwaukee Art Museum by Santiago Calatrava, both inspired by the form of a bird’s wings.\n\nAlso the Oriental village by the sea by Basil Al Bayati which \"is based upon Oriental building types arranged in a plan originating in patterns of insect and plant life. The exoskeleton of a dragonfly forms the main body of the building's layout, its triangular mouth of stairs on the waterfront leading to the creature's circular head of the entrance lobby. The insect's long segmented yellow body is the central corridor, dome-lit, which intertwines with a branch of a tree, its stem a road and its leaves the roofs of condominiums and leisure facilities. The colourful berries are cone-topped villas intended to be reminiscent of Chinese temples.\"\n\n\n"}
