{"id": "56227094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56227094", "title": "2018 in anime", "text": "2018 in anime\n\nEvents in 2018 in anime.\n\nA list of anime that debuted in theaters between January 1 and December 31, 2018.\n\nA list of anime television series that debuted between January 1 and December 31, 2018.\n\nA list of original net animations that debuted between January 1 and December 31, 2018.\n\nA list of original video animations that debuted between January 1 and December 31, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "10157724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10157724", "title": "AUTOECO", "text": "AUTOECO\n\nAUTOECO is a vehicle show about TecnoEcology for the Automobile world, in Oval Lingotto, Turin, in September. The motto is \"Review of the ecologic automobile\" \n\nIn the show meet the more important automotive marks, the centers of planning and realization of systems of ecological propulsion, the producers of alternative fuels and the centers for the installation of bi-fuel injection kits in order to introduce the last innovations and in order to treat one of the greatest topics of present time.\n\n7, 8 and 9-September-2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44073911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44073911", "title": "All Hands And Hearts - Smart Response", "text": "All Hands And Hearts - Smart Response\n\n<noinclude>\nAll Hands And Hearts - Smart Response is a U.S.-based, 501(c)3 non-profit organization. Founded in September 2005, All Hands provides relief to residents in areas affected by natural disasters in the U.S. and internationally. In late 2017 All Hands Volunteers merged with the Happy Hearts Fund, founded by Czech supermodel and philanthropist, Petra Němcová, to become All Hands and Hearts - Smart Response. It is based in Mattapoisett, Massachusetts.\n\nThe organization that would become All Hands Volunteers was co-founded on September 6, 2005 by internet entrepreneur Darius Monsef and businessman David Campbell after the pair met in Thailand, where they had both gone to work in the aftermath of the 2004 Sumatran tsunami that killed an estimated 230,000 people. Many arriving volunteers found that they were being turned away by established charities, resulting in a group coming together to perform basic tasks, such as clearing debris and building shelters. The pair, along with Pete Kirkwood and Mike Cegielski, two U.S. citizens then living in Thailand, created HandsOnThailand, which brought more than 200 volunteers as well as several hundred thousand dollars to aid in the rebuilding of five Phuket fishing villages.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the pair joined with other HandsOn volunteers to establish HandsOnUSA, setting up an operations center in Biloxi, Mississippi within days of the storm. The organization signed on 1,500 volunteers, providing an estimated $2.5 million in volunteer time. HandsOnUSA worked on demolition and construction in the city, as well as clearing away debris and making space for the trailers supplied by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The group remained in Biloxi for five months. In January 2006, the group turned the project over to Hands On Network Gulf Coast and changed its name to Hands On Disaster Response (HODR), launching their next recovery project in Yogyakarta, Indonesia in May of the same year, following the 2006 Yogyakarta earthquake.\n\nIn August 2010, Hands On Disaster Response changed its name to All Hands Volunteers to avoid being confused with other organizations with similar names.\n\nIn late 2017 All Hands Volunteers merged with The Happy Hearts Fund, created by Petra Němcová, to become All Hands And Hearts - Smart Response.\n\nIn 2018, All Hands And Hearts were ranked #1 on the Classy 100, topping a list of fastest growing NGO's for 2017.\n\nAlso in 2018, All Hands And Hearts - Smart Response has been given a 4 star rank by Charity Navigator. The organisation is currently one of the highest rated charities on Charity Navigator. Only 13% of charities have received at least four consecutive 4-star ratings, indicating that All Hands and Hearts outperforms most of the other 1.5 million charities in America in terms of operational and financial efficiency.\n\nAll Hands And Hearts are often amongst the first to respond and the last to leave when co-ordinating relief efforts. When establishing a presence at a new location following a major disaster, the organisation first conducts a thorough assessment to determine the community where they will establish a base, after communicating with local community leadership, following up by inviting a set number of volunteers to join the project base as space and need allows.\nWhile many large volunteer organizations request that volunteers pay to participate, All Hands Volunteers only requests that volunteers cover their own travel expenses, while the group raises funds to cover the remaining expenses.\n\nVolunteers aren't expected to set a minimum set commitment period, staying only as long as they can. In addition, the nature of some of the work volunteers perform (mainly cleanup and demolitions in areas affected by natural disasters) is unskilled labor, meaning that volunteers can immediately take part in recovery efforts with little or no training. Work is often limited to physical labor, such as clearing debris or demolishing damaged structures, but has also included building of schools in Haiti, permanent homes in the Philippines, rebuild programmes in the United States following Hurricane Sandy and other powerful storms as well as ongoing school and community rebuild programmes in Nepal and Peru.\n\nTo date, All Hands And Hearts has enabled over 50,000 volunteers from over 45 countries to positively impact and empower over a million people adversely affected by natural disaster.\n\nThe organization has engaged volunteers from more than 45 countries, something which is celebrated amongst the volunteer community, lending itself to a positive, welcoming and enriching volunteer experience.\n\nIn September 2017, Hurricane Maria devastated large areas of Dominica. It was reported that over 90% of structures on the island suffered damage, with widespread loss of electricity and basic facilities. In response, All Hands and Hearts launched a relief programme in April 2018, focused on restoring education to the children of Dominica, in particular the rebuild of the Paix Bouche Primary School. When completed, the school is expected to serve 78 students, with over 200 projected over the next 10 years. The school is also envisioned to provide shelter against future storms, both for students and the local community.\n\nHurricanes Irma and Maria bombarded the British Virgin Islands in September 2017. The islands were subjected to some of the strongest winds in recorded history, decimating the beautiful islands and causing extensive damage to homes, schools, community facilities and utilities across the islands. All Hands and Hearts launched a program help impacted children on the island of Tortola. A number of schools and care facilities were outlined as needing immediate support, with volunteers helping to clear debris and prepare sites for rebuilds. As the program has progressed through 2018, community programs have been started, with several homes cleared of debris and made safe.\n\nHurricane Maria caused widespread destruction in Puerto Rico during the fall of 2017. After monitoring the situation over recovery efforts, All Hands and Hearts launched a relief program in January 2018, responding to the immediate lack of sanitation, potable water and power outages that continue to affect the island. Volunteers have worked to clear debris, muck and clear facilities, homes and infrastructure, assist in sanitation work, gutting damaged areas and preparing sites for rebuild and repair projects. To date over 247 individual jobs have been completed with over 24,000 volunteer hours logged.\n\nIn June 2018, heavy tropical rainfall hit the south Texas coastline, causing severe flash floods and widespread disruption. All Hands and Hearts assessed the ongoing situation and in response set up an immediate response programme in Hidalgo county. The volunteer team are currently working with local communities to muck and gut homes, clear debris and assist in sanitation and relief in the affected areas.\n\nIn March 2017, All Hands and Hearts launched a relief programme in Peru in response to the widespread and devastating flooding which had affected much of the country since late 2016. A programme was launched in the eastern area of Peru, in the district of Piura Province. Volunteers worked to remove mud and debris from homes and schools, some of which were found to be almost entirely filled with mud. In August 2017, All Hands and Hearts began the next stage of the programme, to rebuild a number of schools, the first of which has since been completed. Further projects are continuing in Yapatera, including school builds, English lessons, community outreach programmes and schemes focused on empowering women in the local area. An estimated 2,000 students have been returned to education, with over 3,000 people impacted as a result of the programme.\n\nIn September 2017, Hurricanes Maria and Irma devastated large areas of the Caribbean including the British and US Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Dominica leading to widespread damage, loss of electricity and basic facilities. All Hands and Hearts continued to monitor the situation during the ongoing hurricane season, launching programs in 2018 to address continuing issues across the region.\n\nIn January 2016, winter storms resulted in several tornadoes and severe flooding affecting St Louis, Missouri. All Hands and Hearts responded to the urgent need for debris removal, sanitation and clearing of damaged infrastructure.\n\nIn August 2016, heavy flooding severely affected the state of Louisiana. Extremely heavy rainfall resulted in flash flood warnings and the destruction or damage of over 60,000 homes, displacing over 8,000 people. All Hands and Hearts launched a relief programme on August 18th, focusing on clearing debris, assisting in sanitation projects and removing flood damaged structures. Efforts were centred in Denham Springs where 90% of homes and business were affected. Volunteer teams also worked in the Baton Rouge area.\n\nThe ongoing earthquake relief programme in Nepal continued to be heavily active throughout 2016, with a number of school projects being completed in Nuwakot and Kathmandu.\n\nIn October 2016, Hurricane Matthew struck the Caribbean and southern United States with North Carolina, Haiti and Florida being worst hit. Widespread flooding and storm damage was reported across much of the region, prompting a relief response to be launched on October 6th, aimed at clearing debris, fallen trees, preparing rebuild sites and environmental cleanups Domestic efforts were centred in North Carolina and Florida.\n\nBetween February - March 2015, All Hands and Hearts responded to heavy winter weather which struck across the eastern United States coast. Volunteers in Boston, Massachusetts assisted residents in clearing snow and co-ordinated with local authorities to facilitate welfare checks.\n\nTwo years after Superstorm Sandy, All Hands opened its third rebuild project in Brooklyn, New York, in January to help those whose homes were damaged by the hurricane. Similar to reconstruction on Staten Island, the work included minor framing, drywall installation, mudding and taping, and painting.\n\nThat same month, Malawi experienced heavy flooding and All Hands worked with the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to track the status and needs of those displaced by the floods. A few months later, All Hands phased into rebuild work and began the digging and bricking of irrigation wells to provide water to crops affected by the floods.\n\nOn April 25, a 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal, followed by a major 7.3 aftershock on May 12th. Over 9,000 people were killed, with over 23,000 injured. Mass devastation to infrastructure, homes and further loss of life followed. All Hands and Hearts deployed a team of disaster response experts to help distribute goods and coordinate local volunteer efforts. Teams then began working in Kathmandu and Sindhupalchowk District clearing debris and demolishing unsafe structures. This work was followed by building temporary learning centers and homes. Since work began in 2015, All Hands and Hearts have led programmes rebuilding eight schools throughout the Nuwakot, Sindhupalchowk, Thulo and Kathmandu regions, directly impacting around 8,000 children. Over 20,000 people have been positively impacted over the course of the programme's duration, which resumed in late 2017 following the monsoon season. All Hands and Hearts continue to be focused on returning school facilities to local children, with the latest project in Haibung nearing completion as of March 2018.\n\nOn April 30, 2014, the All Hands Assessment Team arrived in Tupelo, Mississippi, two days after a tornado outbreak devastated the Southeast United States. All Hands chose to focus their response efforts in Itawamba County. Over the course of their response, 328 volunteers completed 84 jobs, which included basic debris removal, demolition of homes and barns, and significant salvage work. Less than two months later, a set of tornadoes struck the town of Pilger, Nebraska destroying 80% of the town and injuring dozens. In our two weeks in Pilger, a total of 2,943 All Hands-coordinated volunteers completed work on 35 sites and removed debris in over three-quarters of the town. In August Detroit experienced severe flooding and the All Hands quickly launched Project Detroit to help those in the area begin to recover from the damaging floods, and by project close had gutted and sanitized over 400 homes in the Detroit metro area.\n\nAs cleanup after Typhoon Yolanda moved toward completion in the Philippines, All Hands shifted their focus towards long-term recovery, concentrating on building permanent homes in both of the cities of Ormoc and Tacloban. For this program Project Leyte designed 40 two-story disaster resilient homes in order to focus on building upwards in a community where space for homes is limited. Typhoon Hagupit struck the area late in the year, delaying construction activities in Tacloban. The construction team helped both during the preparation and immediate response phases. Immediately following Typhoon Hagupit, the AHV Disaster Assessment Response Team (DART) spent six days on the island of Samar, which bore the brunt of the typhoon assessing the island. All Hands found a village, Calampong, where the organization began a traditional disaster cleanup, clearing fallen trees and debris, and deconstructing ruined homes.\n\nIn 2013, the organization conducted the second phase of their response to Typhoon Sendong, building 88 new permanent homes for the victims of the storm. In May, they set up a rapid response in the Rancho Brazos community in Granbury, Texas, following a tornado in that area. Immediately afterward, they moved to Oklahoma, to aid in restorations after more tornadoes had hit in the areas of Moore and El Reno. In September 2013, the group set up an operation in Northeast Colorado following massive flooding. They organized volunteer teams, helping residents and business owners clear debris and salvage belongings, as well as helping farmers clear debris from their fields.\n\nIn October, the group responded to a 7.2 earthquake in the island province of Bohol, Philippines. The group performed debris removal and salvage. While the project in Bohol continued, the group set up a second response site on the nearby Island of Leyte in response to Typhoon Yolanda. Volunteers on Leyte worked to demolish damaged structures and deliver food to rural residents. At the same time, the group set up a stateside response project in Washington, Illinois following a series of tornadoes in November 2013. FEMA had denied aid to the area, saying that infrastructure damage after the storms wasn't severe enough to warrant federal help.\n\nFollowing the addition of teaching programs in Leogane, All Hands concluded their presence in Leogane. They established a presence in the Philippines with Project Cagayan de Oro, aiding in the cleanup and rebuilding efforts following Typhoon Sendong which hit on December 16, 2011, leaving at least 1,200 people dead, and destroying 50,000 houses.\n\nIn March 2012, they provided aid in coordinating volunteers for debris removal in Morgan County, KY after an EF-3 tornado caused a large amount of damage and killed six. Following the June flooding of Duluth, MN, the group aided in the restoration efforts, establishing a volunteer center where efforts could be coordinated, and flood victims could be matched with volunteers.\n\nFollowing Hurricane Isaac, the group returned to the Mississippi Gulf Coast to provide hurricane recovery aid in the same region where HandsOnUSA had been formed to aid in the Katrina recovery efforts, providing cleanup and home repairs. The same season, they were situated on Staten Island and Long Island following Hurricane Sandy, gutting houses and aiding in cleanup and restorative efforts. Volunteers in Long Beach, Long Island slept on the second floor of a church during the restorative efforts, staying there for eight months.\n\nRelief efforts in Haiti continued in 2011, with the organization, now known as All Hands Volunteers (AHV), expanding to address the evolving needs of residents. One aspect of this involved the creation of a Biosand Filter Program to distribute water filters that kill pathogens and prevent the spread of waterborne diseases to Leogane and surrounding rural communities. Another was the creation of a Livelihoods program, which educated residents in business skills in order to increase their standard of living. They also collaborated with other relief agencies on the Vini Jwe project, which constructed a soccer field for the community Leogane, commemorating its completion with a tournament involving international aid organizations, Haitian league teams and members of the local community.\n\nOn March 11th, 2011 a magnitude 9.1 earthquake struck off of the coast of Tohoku, Japan, triggering a devastating tsunami which struck the region. In response, The organization launched Project Tohoku, setting up operations in Rikuzentakata city and Ofunato city, Iwate Prefecture, where approximately 7,200 homes were badly damaged by the earthquake and tsunami. There, they worked with hundreds of volunteers to clear debris from homes, canals, and public areas and repaired houses.\n\nAll Hands also established relief efforts in the U.S., following tornadoes that struck in Alabama, Massachusetts and Missouri. A \"Good Friday\" EF-4 tornado struck St. Louis on Friday, April 22. AHV's debris clearance team spent four weeks, beginning in May, clearing trees from buildings. A longer-term effort began in May to help relocate families and to de-construct houses that had to be gutted prior to being rebuilt.\nDozens of tornados struck Alabama on April 27 in a super outbreak which killed over 200 people. AHV responded to requests by the State and the Alabama branch of VOAD to provide inter-agency coordination services in support of the ongoing recovery efforts. Coordination of needs was enhanced by a strong 2-1-1 system. Direct volunteer efforts included tree removal, debris removal, and de-construction. AHV efforts concluded in mid-July.\nWhile the Alabama recovery was underway, Western Massachusetts was hit by multiple tornados on June 1. The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) asked AHV to provide coordination services for volunteer agencies in the state. At the same time AHV partnered with United Way and using the 2-1-1 system provided field operations support throughout much of Western Massachusetts to match unaffiliated volunteers with agencies to assist in debris clean-up and roof and home repair.\n\nAHV provided flood relief in Minot, ND, where the June flooding of the Souris River forced 10,000 residents to flee and damaged more than 4,100 properties.\n\nThey were also in the Catskills following Hurricane Irene, cleaning up damaged buildings and clearing debris.\n\nOn January 12, 2010, an earthquake that registered 7.0 on the Richter Scale struck Haiti, with a death toll that some estimates quoted as high as 300,000, with another 300,000 wounded and more than one million people left homeless. The first volunteer staff from HODR arrived on January 21 where, after networking with contacts from their previous efforts in Gonaives, they launched Project Leogane on February 3, 2010 with an emphasis on deconstruction and salvage, as well as in the building of transitional schools. In what would become the organization's longest running project, HODR would remain until 2012 (by which time they would be known as All Hands Volunteers).\n\nHODR also returned to the Cedar Rapids, Iowa area in April 2010, to aid in continued rebuilding following the 2008 flood, with the help of a $15,000 donation from the Greater Cedar Rapids Home Builders Association to pay for tools and supplies.\n\nThe group aided with flood recovery coordination for three U.S. incidents, establishing operations in Rhode Island, Tennessee and Iowa. \nRhode Island received up to of rain in late March and subsequently suffered severe flooding. HODR responded to a request by the state branch of VOAD and the state's emergency management agency to establish and staff an inter-agency recovery coordination center (RCC). The center continued providing coordination until early May.\nAs the Rhode Island project concluded, both Middle and West Tennessee experienced record rainfall and suffered exceptional flooding. Similar to the Rhode Island project, HODR helped optimize an RCC in Antioch, Tennessee that subsequently handled over a thousand inter-agency requests for assistance. \nIn August, the Skunk River flooded parts of southern Iowa. Especially devastated was the city of Colfax in Jasper County. HODR teams helped with clean-up and recovery activities plus assisting in inter-agency coordination for Colfax and Jasper County.\n\nIn April 2009, HODR set up operations in Mena, Arkansas to remove debris and downed trees after an EF3 tornado hit the town, damaging more than 600 homes and affecting thousands of people.\n\nA coordination team was deployed to Gowanda, NY, following the August 9–10, 2009 flash flooding in Cattaraugus County, where they set up a recovery center at the Gowanda Fire Department to connect agencies with volunteers seeking to help in flood recovery in the area.\n\nIn October, the group opened Project Sungai Geringging after Western Sumatra was hit by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake on September 30. The project operated until April 2010, demolishing damaged structures and salvaging reusable materials to aid in rebuilding.\n\nIn February, the organization established a three-week operation in Gassville, Arkansas, to aid in the cleanup after a category EF2 tornado, one of the Super Tuesday tornados, struck the town destroying 79 homes. They then moved to Newton County, Missouri, to aid with the recovery after the Picher/Neosho tornado on May 10 hit the county, destroying almost 200 houses and killing 18.\n\nIn June 2008, eastern Iowa was hit with massive flooding, forcing the evacuation of several cities, including Palo and Cedar Rapids. HODR established Project Cedar Rapids, bringing over 2,000 volunteers to the area during its four-month deployment. Volunteers traveled door to door, assisting residents with clean up.\n\nHODR's final project in 2008 took place in Gonaives, Haiti, after a series of hurricanes hit the area, where the group aided in mud removal and the rebuilding of the city's infrastructure, including the cleaning and painting of the school and medical clinic.\n\nThe organization's next project took place in Pisco, Peru, providing aid following the 2007 Peru earthquake. The group's final project in 2007 was in Rayenda, Bangladesh, following Cyclone Sidr, where they aided in restoration with a group of 50 volunteers from 10 different countries.\n\nOn May 27, 2006, an earthquake measuring 6.3 on the Richter scale struck the Yogyakarta region in Java, Indonesia. HODR established a base in the village of Sawit, where volunteers participated in demolition and debris removal.\n\nIn November 2006, Typhoon Durian (Reming) struck the Philippines, resulting in extensive damage and loss of life. HODR established a base in the township of Santo Domingo, Albay in January 2007, assisting with rebuilding and cleanup.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24518270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24518270", "title": "American Folk Festival", "text": "American Folk Festival\n\nThe American Folk Festival is an annual folk festival held during August at Waterfront Park in Bangor, Maine. Founded in 2005, the festival is free and has an open admittance policy. A 2008 study showed that the festival brought in a total of 9.8 million dollars of tourism revenue to the city of Bangor.\n\n"}
{"id": "5579832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5579832", "title": "Bad Company (1999 film)", "text": "Bad Company (1999 film)\n\nBad Company (original title: Mauvaises Fréquentations) is a 1999 French film starring Maud Forget and Lou Doillon. It is a romantic drama about two young students falling in love. The movie is written by Alain Layrac, and directed by Jean-Pierre Améris. A few scenes from this movie are featured in a music video by Lene Marlin for her song, \"Where I'm Headed\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1841924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841924", "title": "Battle of Pacocha", "text": "Battle of Pacocha\n\nThe naval Incident of Pacocha took place on 29 May 1877 when Nicolás de Piérola was leading a revolution to overthrow then Peruvian President Mariano Ignacio Prado. Piérola's supporters used the Peruvian monitor \"Huáscar\" as a raiding ship. She harassed the shipping especially off El Callao, the main commercial port of Peru. However, after she boarded some British merchant ships, British authorities sent Rear Admiral de Horsey to capture the vessel. The Peruvian warship managed to outrun the British squadron after a fierce exchange of fire. \"Huáscar\"s guns were undermanned, and she fired just 40 rounds. \"Shah\"s mast was damaged by splinters. On the British side, \"Shah\" fired 237 shots and \"Amethyst\" 190, but none of them carried armour-piercing ammunition. \"Huáscar\" was hit 60 times, but her armour shield defeated all the rounds. There was a last-ditch effort to stop or sink the rebels when two small torpedo rams from \"Shah\" attempted to find the \"Huáscar\", but the Peruvian ship managed to escape under the cover of darkness. The rebel crew was forced to surrender their ship to the Peruvian government just two days later.\n\nThis battle saw the first use of the newly invented self-propelled torpedo which, at the time, had just entered limited service with the Royal Navy. The torpedo was dodged by the rebel monitor.\n\n"}
{"id": "36885333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36885333", "title": "Beijing Design Week", "text": "Beijing Design Week\n\nBeijing Design Week (BJDW) is an annual event, taking place in the fall in Beijing. First launched as a pilot effort in 2009, it has quickly become the leading international platform for design in China. In 2012, UNESCO named Beijing an “international design capital,” recognizing the city’s effort to foster innovation and be a leading smart city in China. The purpose of Beijing Design Week is to raise public design awareness as well as to help develop stronger design infrastructure and discourse in Beijing. BJDW is an initiative of the Ministry of Education of the PRC, the Ministry of Science and Technology of the PRC, the Ministry of Culture of the PRC, and the People’s Government of Beijing Municipality. It is undertaken by Beijing Gehua Cultural Development Group and Beijing Industrial Design Center.\nBeijing Design Week 2014 is scheduled to run from 26th Sep – 3rd Oct.\n\n\nThe opening ceremony and the Beijing Design Awards mark the beginning of Beijing Design Week. The Design Awards honor organizations, individuals or pieces that excel in encouraging social progress, cultural development, trade promotion and urban construction. They enhance design education, communication, and consumption, and the development of the design industry as a whole. These awards also present China’s achievements in the design field, promote design innovation, stimulate the design industry and ultimately set the trend for Beijing’s design market. These awards are widely respected inside and outside the design industry as one of the most significant international design awards.\n\n\nBeijing Design Week Forum is one of the main sections of BJDW. It places China at the center of a global conversation around the practical and intellectual challenges in an ever more interconnected world. Policy makers and industry leaders share their experience and wisdom during the day-long event. The BJDW Forum articulates itself around different themes depending on the year. Past speakers have included Daan Roosegaarde, Masayuki Kurokawa, Marcel Wanders, Min Wang… etc.\n\n\nEvery year, BJDW hosts a guest city’s representatives to share their wisdom and experience. The aim is to promote institutional exchange as well as commercial and economic opportunities amongst the two cities. Past participants have been London, Milan, Amsterdam, and in 2014 it will be Barcelona.\n\nBeijing design market is the platform for trading design and copyrights, products, talents and services. By integrating resources and improving professional services, it will develop markets at different layers and become an agent for design exchange, consumption and service. The development of Beijing Design Market focuses on two aspects: design trading and market consumption.\n\n\nThe design hop is the exhibition component of the BJDW. Located in different areas in Beijing, it showcases projects from renowned designers and companies from around the world. Design hop is one of the most dynamic sections of BJDW, it has events, exhibitions, installations, seminars and lectures. From the Dashilar area traditional hutongs, to the skyscrapers of Sanlitun, the design hop allows the visitor to explore Beijing in a unique manner.\n\nInitiated by Beijing Design Week and International Copyright Exchange Center, Design Copyright Service is a website for design copyright registration, which will set pre-existing rules for design marketization. With this initiative, the new rule of the design market will be “first the copyright, then the design.” The features of this service are: electronic notarization for design copyright conducted via internet, complemented with patent registration and the conventional approach of copyright registration, special technology for protection that cannot be reversed, exclusive digital password, database of national standard to ensure secrecy and safety of the documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "26516614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26516614", "title": "Chinese espionage in the United States", "text": "Chinese espionage in the United States\n\nChina is alleged to have begun a widespread effort to acquire U.S. military technology and classified information and the trade secrets of U.S. companies. The Chinese government is accused of stealing trade secrets and technology, often from companies in the United States, to help support its long-term military and commercial development. China has been accused of using a number of methods to obtain U.S. technology (using U.S. law to avoid prosecution), including espionage, exploitation of commercial entities and a network of scientific, academic and business contacts. Although it uses a network of contacts to collect information used to benefit Chinese businesses, each bit of information does not invite scrutiny or prosecution by the U.S. government. Espionage cases include Larry Wu-Tai Chin, Katrina Leung, Gwo-Bao Min, Chi Mak and Peter Lee.\n\nIn addition to traditional espionage, China partners civilian Chinese companies with American businesses to acquire technology and economic data and uses cyber spying to penetrate the computer networks of U.S. businesses and government agencies; an example is the December 2009 Operation Aurora. U.S. law enforcement officials have identified China as the most active foreign power involved in the illegal acquisition of American technology. On May 19, 2014, the United States Department of Justice announced that a Federal grand jury had indicted five People's Liberation Army officers for stealing confidential business information and intellectual property from U.S. commercial firms and planting malware on their computers.\n\nThe People's Republic of China has used a number of methods to covertly gather intelligence in the United States. Individuals attempt to obtain targeted information from open sources such as libraries, research institutions and unclassified databases. Chinese travelers are recruited to carry out specific intelligence activities, and the Chinese government debriefs returnees from exchange programs, trade missions and scientific-cooperation programs. Chinese citizens may be coerced to cooperate in acting classes.\n\nPartnerships between Chinese and foreign companies have been accused of existing solely to give Chinese defense industries access to advanced technology. The regulatory and commercial environment in China pressures American and other foreign companies to transfer technology to their Chinese partner companies as part of doing business in their country. Foreign companies provide technology, capital and manufacturing expertise to obtain access to Chinese markets, and high-tech equipment is purchased by Chinese agents operating front organizations in Hong Kong. Some items (computers, semiconductors, software, telecommunications devices, and integrated circuits) may be used for military or civilian purposes. China also uses state-run firms to purchase American companies with access to the targeted technology.\n\nChina also accesses foreign technology through industrial espionage, with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials rating China's industrial-espionage and theft operations as the leading threat to U.S. technological security. Between October 2002 and January 2003 five Chinese businessmen were accused of illegally shipping equipment and trade secrets from California to China, and U.S. officials prevented a Chinese man from shipping a new, high-speed computer used in classified projects (including nuclear-weapons development) from Sandia National Laboratories.\n\nA 1999 United States House of Representatives Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military and Commercial Concerns with the People's Republic of China report, known as the Cox Report, warned that China has stolen classified information on every thermonuclear warhead in the country's intercontinental ballistic missile arsenal. Information is collected through espionage, reviews of U.S. technical and academic publications and interaction with U.S. scientists. China tasks a large number of individuals to collect small pieces of information (which are collated and analyzed), and individual agents can more easily escape suspicion. U.S. government personnel suspect that China's intelligence-gathering efforts directed towards the development of modern nuclear weapons are focused on the Los Alamos, Lawrence Livermore, Sandia and Oak Ridge National Laboratories. China is known to have stolen classified information on the W-56 Minuteman II ICBM, the W-62 Minuteman III ICBM, the W-70 Lance short-range ballistic missile (SRBM), the W-76 Trident C-4 submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM), the W-78 Minuteman III Mark 12A ICBM, the W-87 Peacekeeper ICBM and the W-88 Trident D-5 SLBM and weapon-design concepts and features.\n\nChina conducts political and corporate espionage to access the networks of financial, defense and technology companies and research institutions in the United States. Email attachments attempting to enter the networks of U.S. companies and organizations exploit security weaknesses in software. A recipient opens an email attachment, apparently from a familiar source, containing a program which embeds in the recipient's computer. The remotely controlled program allows an attacker to access the recipient's email, send sensitive documents to specific addresses and turns on such instruments as web cameras or microphones.\n\nIn January 2010, Google reported \"a highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China that resulted in the theft of intellectual property from Google\". According to investigators, the Google cyber-attack targeted the Gmail accounts of Chinese human-rights activists. At least 34 other companies have been attacked, including Yahoo, Symantec, Adobe, Northrop Grumman and Dow Chemical.\n\nIn January 2013, \"The New York Times\" reported that it was the victim of hacking attempts originating from China during the previous four months after it published an article on Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. According to the newspaper, the \"attacks appear to be part of a broader computer espionage campaign against American news media companies that have reported on Chinese leaders and corporations.\"\n\nChinese cyber-attacks seem to target strategic industries in which China lags; attacks on defense companies target weapons-systems information, and attacks on technology companies seek source code critical to software applications. Operation Aurora emphasized what senior U.S. government officials have called an increasingly serious cyber threat to critical industries.\n\nAmitai Etzioni of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies has suggested that cyberspace could be a fruitful realm for the United States and China to implement a policy of mutually assured restraint allowing both states to take measures they deem necessary for self-defense while agreeing to refrain from offensive steps. Such a policy would require oversight.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, the Chinese government was able to arrest or kill between 18 and 20 CIA assets within China. A joint CIA/FBI counterintelligence operation, codenamed \"Honey Bear\", was unable to definitely determine the source of the compromises, though theories include the existence of a mole, cyber-espionage, or poor tradecraft. Mark Kelton, then the Deputy Director of the National Clandestine Service for Counterintelligence, was initially skeptical that a mole was to blame.\n\nIn January 2018, a former CIA officer named Jerry Chun Shing Lee was arrested at John F. Kennedy International Airport, on suspicion of helping dismantle the CIA's network of informants in China.\n\nIn 2007 the computer security company McAfee alleged that China was actively involved in cyberwarfare, accusing the country of cyber-attacks on India, Germany and the United States; China denied knowledge of these attacks.\nIn September 2007 former senior U.S. information security official Paul Strassmann said that 735,598 computers in the U.S. were \"infested with Chinese zombies\"; computers infected in this manner can theoretically form a botnet capable of carrying out unsophisticated yet potentially dangerous denial-of-service attacks. A cyber spying network known as GhostNet, using servers primarily based in China, was reported as tapping into the classified documents of government and private organizations in 103 countries (including Tibetan exiles); China denied the claim.\n\nIn December 2009 and January 2010 a cyberattack, known as Operation Aurora, was launched from China on Google and over 20 other companies. Google said that the attacks originated from China, and it would \"review the feasibility\" of its business operations in China as a result of the incident. According to Google, at least 20 other companies in a variety of sectors were also targeted by the attacks. According to McAfee, \"this is the highest profile attack of its kind that we have seen in recent memory.\"\n\nIn May 2014, a U.S. Federal grand jury indicted five Chinese military officers for cybercrimes and stealing trade secrets. It was alleged that the Chinese officers hacked into the computers of six U.S. companies to steal information that would provide an economic advantage to Chinese competitors, including Chinese state-owned enterprises. China said that the charges were \"made-up\", and the indictment would damage trust between the two nations. Although the indictments have been called relatively meaningless, they could limit travel by the officers due to U.S. extradition treaties.\n\nIn November 2017, the Department of Justice charged three Chinese employees of Guangzhou Bo Yu Information Technology Company Limited with hacking into corporate entities in the United States, including Siemens AG, Moody's Analytics, and Trimble Inc.\n\nSince at least 2013, a Chinese espionage group called TEMP.Periscope by FireEye is reported to have been engaged in espionage against maritime-related subjects. FireEye reported that the information targeted was likely of commercial and economic importance.<br>\n\nThe People's Liberation Army (PLA) was tied to economic espionage involving stolen business plans, intellectual property, and infringed on private conversations from Westinghouse Electric and United States Steel Corporation.<br>\n\nChinese hackers have stolen information on the Patriot missile system, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, and the U.S. Navy's new Littoral combat ship. These blueprints of U.S. weapon and control systems were stolen to advance the development of Chinese weaponry.<br>\n\nThe protection of the South China Sea is highly important to the U.S. because a Chinese Cyber Unit has already succeeded an invasion in the Philippine’s government and military networks. Military documents, internal communications, and other sensitive materials related to dispute were lost due to the invasion. <br>\n\nIn January and February 2018, Chinese government hackers reportedly stole 614 gigabytes of data from a Naval Undersea Warfare Center-affiliated contractor. The compromised material reportedly included information on a project dubbed \"Sea Dragon\", as well as United States Navy submarine cryptographic systems and electronic warfare.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that China and Russia are routinely eavesdropping on calls from an iPhone used by President Donald Trump, which China reportedly attempting to influence the President by identifying and influencing the people Trump is regularly in contact with.\n\nIn 2018, Bloomberg News reported that, as early as 2015, a specialized unit of the People's Liberation Army began inserting chips into Supermicro servers that allowed for backdoor access to the servers. Approximately 30 companies reportedly had their servers compromised via the chips, including Amazon (via AWS Elemental) and Apple Inc. The claim was strongly denied by both Amazon and Apple Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39042974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39042974", "title": "Colombo Fashion Week", "text": "Colombo Fashion Week\n\nColombo Fashion Week was conceived in 2003, as a project that was focused on uplifting Sri Lanka's fashion design industry. Today it is firmly established as the backbone of Sri Lanka's fashion design industry and in its journey of over a decade it has taken Sri Lanka's fashion design industry from strength to strength. CFW as its popularly known is probably one of 3 fashion weeks in Asia that is over ten years. It is developmental in its nature, which covers every aspect of a fashion design industry from grooming young designer at college level, to guiding senior and established designers through commercial opportunities.\n\nCFW showcases two seasons - Spring Summer (February–March) and Resort annually (September–October). Currently CFW also serves as a hub for South Asian fashion. Where designers from neighbouring countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and India regularly show.\n\nColombo Fashion Week Presented by the Greater Colombo Fashion Company for its 12th year this 2015, HSBC CFW is one of three main fashion shows in Asia that have been running for over 10 years, and continues to inspire growth and innovation amongst Sri Lankan designers. The partners of CFW who strengthen CFW’s vision and lends their support to its success are;HSBC, Land Rover, ODEL,Wineworld,Vision Care,Colombo Jewellery Stores,Cotton Collection,Hameedia, Unilever, TATA,Ramani Fernando Salons, Malkey Rent-A-Car, Leo Burnett, Ponds, FashionTV, The Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka).\n\nHSBC Colombo Fashion Week, which has been the backbone of the Sri Lankan fashion industry, returns for its 12th edition from 11 to 14 March at the Hilton Colombo, and is set to showcase some of the leading fashion talent from Sri Lanka as well as other regions.\nThis season, HSBC CFW will celebrate the craft of tie-dye, a theme that reflects the vibrant island life of Sri Lankans. Many other exciting updates have been made to HSBC CFW this year, and participants and invitees can look forward to being a part of a ‘fashion village’ during the week-long series of events, which will take place in the outdoors of the Hilton Colombo. A total of 25 shows will feature the latest collections of 20 renowned local designers and eight international designers, and the Bright Sparks shows will feature promising young talent. A Trunk Show will promote interactive retail opportunities for participating designers. The Fashion + Food segment will see premier food establishments and chefs collaborating with CFW to offer sensational menus, and there will also be the opportunity to engage in informative workshops related to fashion and communication.\n\nUplifting the local fashion design industry through interaction, exposure and guidance.\n\nEvery year CFW gives three important awards - Lifetime Achievement Award, Gen-Next award and the Face of CFW award to deserving individuals. CFW is an all year around initiative with ongoing projects like 'CFW Day' at university campuses where it empowers final year design students.\n\nHSBC Colombo Fashion Week 2013 was a three days event held from 3–5 April in Colombo, sponsored by HSBC. Thirty one designers were there from all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "27273625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27273625", "title": "Edward Grady Partin", "text": "Edward Grady Partin\n\nEdward Grady Partin, Sr. (February 27, 1924 – March 11, 1990), was a business agent of the Teamsters Union in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. His testimony in 1964 helped to convict union president Jimmy Hoffa of jury tampering.\n\nPartin was born to Grady Edward Partin (1899–1967) and Bessie M. Partin Foster (1905–2003) in Woodville in Wilkinson County, Mississippi, adjacent to the Louisiana border. He was a dishonorably discharged Marine. His first arrest was for burglary of a house. In 1961, members of Local 5 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, with which Partin was affiliated for thirty years, charged him with embezzlement of union funds. The 600-pound safe in which union records were stored was found in the bottom of a river. Two who testified against Partin were beaten, and one later was killed by a truck.\n\nOn June 27, 1962, Partin was indicted on twenty-six counts of embezzling union funds and falsifying records, but was released on bond. On August 14, 1962, Partin was sued for damages for having driven his car off the road and leaving the scene of an accident, having injured two persons and killed a third. He was then indicted for first-degree manslaughter and leaving the scene of an accident. He was also indicted in another case for aggravated kidnapping. On October 7, 1962, he posted $60,000 in bail in all three cases, embezzlement, manslaughter, and kidnapping, then met with Hoffa to discuss union matters. Thereafter, he emerged as the surprise star witness against Hoffa, having obtained the information on jury tampering from an unexpected stranger in a bar. The Justice Department granted Partin retroactive immunity from prosecution, but Partin denied that he was paid a fee by the government to testify against Hoffa. However, Partin's former wife, the mother of five of his children, received $300 per month, the amount of her alimony, from the Justice Department. Wade McClanahan, a government witness, said that Partin threatened to have him killed if McClanahan went forward with testimony against the Teamsters business agent.\n\nPartin claimed that Hoffa, his former associate, offered him $20,000 to fix the jury at Hoffa's trial in 1962 on taking kickbacks from a trucking company. United States Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy led the prosecution of Hoffa, but the 1962 trial ended in a hung jury. Hoffa was, however, imprisoned in 1967 on the jury-tampering conviction. James Neal, a prosecutor in the 1962 trial in Chattanooga, Tennessee, said that when Partin entered the courtroom, Hoffa exclaimed, \"My God, it's Partin,\" hence expressing surprise that Partin would testify against Hoffa.\" \n\nAccording to trutv.com, New Orleans crime boss Carlos Marcello in 1960 transferred $500,000 in cash to Hoffa to divert the money to the presidential campaign of Republican Richard M. Nixon, who lost to then U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy. Early in 1962, Hoffa had disclosed plans to Partin for the murders of President Kennedy and Attorney General Robert Kennedy.\n\nAubrey W. Young, former aide to Governor John J. McKeithen, arranged a meeting at which Partin was offered first, $25,000 a year for ten years, then $1 million from Marcello to work out a plan to overturn the Hoffa conviction. Hoffa's allies, among them film actor and decorated World War II veteran Audie Murphy, sought to obtain an affidavit from Partin recanting the testimony against Hoffa. Such a confession could have reopened the case.\n\nEdwin Edwards, who was elected governor of Louisiana in 1972, had expressed concern that the controversial Partin might endorse his candidacy, a development that Edwards, then a U.S. representative from Crowley feared. \"Since Partin was in so much legal trouble, his endorsement would be political poison,\" Edwards recalled.\"\n\nThereafter, the post-Robert Kennedy U.S. Justice Department spent eleven years prosecuting Partin on five counts of antitrust and extortion in connection with labor troubles during the late 1960s in the Baton Rouge area. In March 1979, Partin was convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice by hiding witnesses and arranging for perjured testimony.\n\nA much earlier Partin trial, which began on June 14, 1971, in Butte, Montana, ended without a verdict. Twenty-four days later, the judge declared a mistrial as a result of a deadlock among jurors. The case was then reassigned to U.S. District Judge James F. Battin, a Republican former member of the United States House of Representatives, whose court was located in the Billings division. Battin granted a change of venue to Atlanta, Georgia, for the convenience of both witnesses and counsel. Partin's second trial, with Battin still presiding, hence began in Atlanta on January 31, 1972. Judge Battin dismissed one of the five counts, but Partin was convicted after eighteen days of trial and two other days of deliberations of the remaining four counts.\n\nIn June 1980, Partin was finally imprisoned for extortion. While imprisoned in 1984, he pleaded \"nolo contendere\" to charges of conspiracy, racketeering, and the embezzlement of some $450,000 in union funds stemming from a 1973 indictment. Union members once voted to continue paying Partin's salary while he was in prison, but his tenure as the business agent ended in 1981.\n\nU.S. District Judge John Parker subsequently reduced Partin's sentence, and he was released to a halfway house in 1986.\n\nKnown for his tough negotiation style with business and government, Partin was involved in many labor disputes. He commonly packed courtrooms with Teamsters to demonstrate union solidarity. He was accused, along with Ted Dunham, Jr., of having attempted to monopolize the Baton Rouge concrete industry during a strike against Bulk Transport.\n\nIn 1978, Partin organized workers of the Department of Public Works of the Baton Rouge City-Parish government. In 1979, during a teachers' strike in Baton Rouge, Partin placed non-teaching personnel on picket lines in support of the strike. The teachers, however, asked Partin to remove the pickets, and the strike was soon resolved.\n\nPartin once spent six months in jail for contempt of court on the order of U.S. District Judge E. Gordon West of Baton Rouge. Partin had disobeyed West's order that the Teamsters stop picketing at Delta Concrete.\n\nOn November 27, 1968, in Uvalde, Texas, Partin, at forty-four, married the 29-year-old former Frances Kay Anselmo. This was not a first marriage for Partin. The couple subsequently divorced. \n\nIn his later years, Partin resided in McComb, Mississippi. In January 1990, Partin was admitted to a hospital in Orlando, Florida, because of circulatory problems in his legs. After an unsuccessful operation, he spent a week in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with a daughter, Janice P. Barlow. He then was admitted to a hospital in Hammond, Louisiana, and finally to the Guest House nursing home on Florida Boulevard in Baton Rouge. There Partin died at the age of sixty-six of complications from cardiovascular disease and diabetes.\n\nSurvivors included his mother, Bessie Foster of Baker in East Baton Rouge Parish; five daughters, Janice Barlow of Tulsa, Glenda Gail Lang of Rialto, California, Cynthia Mitchen of Houston, Texas, Teresa P. Gaydos of Baton Rouge, and Brenda P. Canton Kyzar of McComb, Mississippi; two sons, Edward Partin, Jr., then of Little Rock, Arkansas, and later of Slaughter, Louisiana, and Byron Keith Partin of Baker, later of Ethel in East Feliciana Parish; two sisters, Hazel E. Chancellor (1926)of Sugar Land, Texas, and Sandra Ann Foster Guy of Baker; two brothers, Donald L. Partin, Sr. (1927–1999), and his wife, Vivian Roberts Partin, of Crosby, Mississippi, and Douglas Wesley Partin, Sr. (born c. 1930) of Baton Rouge and later Crosby, Mississippi; fifteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.\n\nA Partin nephew, Prentiss Joe Partin (1949-2011), the son of Donald and Vivian Partin, was a native of Centreville, Mississippi, and a teacher, coach, principal and East Baton Rouge Parish school administrator from Zachary, Louisiana. \nHonorary pallbearers included former Baton Rouge Mayor-President Woodrow Wilson Dumas and Billy Cannon, a Baton Rouge dentist and a former star football player at Louisiana State University. Partin is interred at Resthaven Gardens of Memory in Baton Rouge.\n\nDouglas Partin had succeeded his brother as business agent for Teamsters Local 5 in Baton Rouge, a post that Ed Partin had occupied for three decades. Doug Partin said of his brother: \"We all know that he made mistakes. We all do. So many people either hated him or loved him. There was no in-between. . . . \"\n\n"}
{"id": "19506870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19506870", "title": "Estonian Punk Song Festival", "text": "Estonian Punk Song Festival\n\nEstonian Punk Song Festival is an event that first took place on July 7, 2008 in Rakvere, where popular Estonian punk songs were performed by choirs.\n\nThe second festival was held in Rakvere on 2011 and third 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21511156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21511156", "title": "European Beer Star", "text": "European Beer Star\n\nThe European Beer Star is a beer competition, held in 2013 for the tenth time. Consideration is given to types of beer which have their origins in Europe. All breweries can participate: local, regional, national and worldwide operating breweries, not only from Europe but from all countries. \n\nPrizes are awarded to the beers which best fulfill the respective type criteria, and whose taste and quality impresses the most. In 2012, more than 1,300 beers were tested, an increase of 23% compared with 2011.\n\nThis award has been initiated by the associations Private Brauereien Deutschland, Private Brauereien Bayern and SIB - the association of small and independent breweries of Europe.\n\nThe tasting is carried out by an expert jury, of independent beer experts from across the world. The yardstick is not the technical laboratory analysis, but a rating from the consumer's viewpoint of sense and taste. The aim of the blind tasting is to find the beers which best fulfill the type criteria of each category and whose taste as well as quality are the most convincing.\n\nIn each category, the three best beers are awarded a gold, silver and bronze medal. Less than three prizes will be awarded if there are no three beers which meet the specified quality and category standards.\n\nVisitors to Brau Beviale, a trade fair for the international beverage industry held in Nuremberg, will have the opportunity to cast their vote which beer they prefer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9068275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9068275", "title": "Extinction risk from global warming", "text": "Extinction risk from global warming\n\nThe extinction risk of global warming is the risk of species becoming extinct due to the effects of global warming. This may be Earth's sixth major extinction, often called the Anthropocene or Holocene extinction.\n\nThe scientific consensus in the 2007 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report is that \n\nIn one study published in \"Nature\" in 2004, between 15 and 37% of 1103 endemic or near-endemic known plant and animal species will be \"committed to extinction\" by 2050. More properly, changes in habitat by 2050 will put them outside the survival range for the inhabitants, thus committing the species to extinction.\n\nOther researchers, such as Thuiller \"et al.\", Araújo \"et al.\", Person \"et al.\", Buckley and Roughgarden, and Harte \"et al.\" have raised concern regarding uncertainty in Thomas \"et al.\"s projections; some of these studies believe it is an overestimate, others believe the risk could be greater. Thomas \"et al.\" replied in Nature addressing criticisms and concluding \"Although further investigation is needed into each of these areas, it is unlikely to result in substantially reduced estimates of extinction. Anthropogenic climate change seems set to generate very large numbers of species-level extinctions.\" On the other hand, Daniel Botkin \"et al.\" state \"... global estimates of extinctions due to climate change (Thomas et al. 2004) may have greatly overestimated the probability of extinction...\"\n\nMechanistic studies are documenting extinctions due to recent climate change: McLaughlin \"et al.\" documented two populations of Bay checkerspot butterfly being threatened by precipitation change. Parmesan states, \"Few studies have been conducted at a scale that encompasses an entire species\" and McLaughlin \"et al.\" agreed \"few mechanistic studies have linked extinctions to recent climate change.\"\n\nIn 2008, the white lemuroid possum was reported to be the first known mammal species to be driven extinct by man-made global warming. However, these reports were based on a misunderstanding. One population of these possums in the mountain forests of northern Queensland is severely threatened by climate change as the animals cannot survive extended temperatures over 30 °C. However, another population 100 kilometres south remains in good health.\n\nAccording to research published in the January 4, 2012 \"Proceedings of the Royal Society B\" current climate models may be flawed because they overlook two important factors: the differences in how quickly species relocate and competition among species. According to the researchers, led by Mark C. Urban, an ecologist at the University of Connecticut, diversity decreased when they took these factors into account, and that new communities of organisms, which do not exist today, emerged. As a result the rate of extinctions may be higher than previously projected.\n\nAccording to research published in the 30 May 2014 issue of \"Science,\" most known species have small ranges, and the numbers of small-ranged species are increasing quickly. They are geographically concentrated and are disproportionately likely to be threatened or already extinct. According to the research, current rates of extinction are three orders of magnitude higher than the background extinction rate, and future rates, which depend on many factors, are poised to increase. Although there has been rapid progress in developing protected areas, such efforts are not ecologically representative, nor do they optimally protect biodiversity. In the researchers' view, human activity tends to destroy critical habitats where species live, warms the planet, and tends to move species around the planet to places where they don’t belong and where they can come into conflict with human needs (e.g. causing species to become pests).\n\nIn 2016 the Bramble Cay melomys, which lived on a Great Barrier Reef island, was reported to probably be the first mammal to become extinct because of sea level rises due to human-made climate change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15857115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15857115", "title": "February Album Writing Month", "text": "February Album Writing Month\n\nFebruary Album Writing Month or FAWM is an annual songwriting challenge. The challenge is to compose 14 original songs in the 28 days of February.\n\nFAWM began in February 2004 as a personal project of singer-songwriter Burr Settles, who was inspired after completing a short novel for NaNoWriMo. He recruited three friends to join him in attempting to compose 14 new songs during the month. Since all four so-called \"fawmers\" lived in different time zones, they used a blog to track their progress and encourage one another. Each of them met or surpassed the 14-song goal, with 66 songs total.\n\nDue to expressed interest from songwriters who stumbled upon the FAWM 2004 archive, the challenge was opened up to the public in February 2005 at FAWM.ORG, where the challenge has remained. Registered users may post demo recordings of their new songs to keep track of their progress and elicit feedback. Participation and song output roughly doubled annually up to 2008: \n\nIn 2008, because of a Leap Year (29 Days), the ante was upped to 14½ songs — the extra half-song being a songwriting collaboration. In the years since, collaborative songwriting has become a staple of the FAWM community.\n\nThe project also produces a compilation CD series, entitled \"14 Songs In 28 Days\". Each album documents the corresponding year's FAWM event, and previous releases have been met with critical praise from indie-music magazines such as Wonkavision and PopMatters.\n\nMany so-called \"fawmers\" are professional musicians who have also released FAWM-penned songs on their own albums. A notable example is a three-way collaboration between Jefferson Pitcher, Christian Kiefer, and Matthew Gerken (Nice Monster), who each wrote songs about 14 U.S. presidencies for FAWM 2006 (for a total of 42, saving the then-current President Bush for a later collaboration). The result, titled \" \" was released as a triple-CD set during the 2008 election season\n\nFAWMers keep in contact with each other throughout the year at companion website, www.fawmers.com\n\nFawmers compose music of all genres and styles, though the most prevalent are folk, indie rock, and singer-songwriter. In order to spur creativity and work outside of ruts, fawmers periodically create new \"genres\" and challenges, such as:\n\nThe FAWM Challenge is popular among participants in other timed artistic challenges, such as NaNoWriMo, Songfight, 50 Songs in 90 Days, Sounds of the Weak, National Solo Album Month (NaSoAlMo) and Album-a-Day. FAWM was also the model inspiration for the RPM Challenge, which encourages its participants to record a 10-song album.\n\n"}
{"id": "30076271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30076271", "title": "Flashpoint Human Rights Film Festival", "text": "Flashpoint Human Rights Film Festival\n\nFlashpoint Human Rights Film Festival was a four-day festival held in Mumbai, India between 8–10 December 2010. It screened eight films from around the world that dealt with human rights issues at a macro as well as at a micro level; from global concerns to indigenous issues. The festival coincided with the International Human Rights Day on 10 December 2010.\n\nThe eight documentaries screened at Flashpoint Human Rights Film Festival were part of the Matter of Act program at Movies That Matter film festival 2010 held in March 2010 at The Hague, Netherlands. The films highlight the work done by human rights defenders across the world and the dangers they face in their work, which are not always in countries where civil liberties are honored. Festival director Sridhar Rangayan said, \"I saw these films as a jury member at the festival in the Netherlands and was so moved by the films, I was determined to bring them to India to share with audiences here.\" The films dealt with human rights issues like human trafficking and prostitution of children; Violations of international laws on war and peace; Atrocities under military regimes; Religious fundamentalism and homophobia; women's rights and honor killings; and civil war and the killing of innocents.\n\nEach day of the screenings, panel discussions were held on each topic screened. The panelists included filmmakers Bishakha Datta, Vinta Nanda; rights activist Priti Patkar, advocates Colin Gonsalves, PA Sebastian, Flavia Agnes and Usha Andevar. The panels were moderated by Vinta Nanda, Dalip Daswani and Gargi Sen respectively. Three of the activists portrayed in the documentaries: Rebiya Kadeer, Somaly Mam, and Mu Sochua, have been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Messages sent by them and some of the film-makers were shared with the audience at the festival. Film director and rights activist Mahesh Bhatt inaugurated the festival by asking \"how do we as a society... go about igniting change in 'this climate of collective apathy to human suffering'\" together with theatre actress and director Dolly Thakore. Of the festival, she said \"This will open up avenues and provide a direction to youngsters\".\n\nA wide range of questions and discussions emerged from the audience of social activists, filmmakers, and film buffs, such as whether honor killings are different from stonings, how different are democracies with cartels and autocracies, what the relationship is between violence and families, and how individuals can effect change in the world.\n\nThe festival was conceived and founded by Sridhar Rangayan, who is also the festival director. Gargi Sen is the co-director. The festival was organized by Solaris Pictures (Mumbai) along with Magic Lantern Foundation (New Delhi) and Movies That Matter (Netherlands) in association with the Alliance française.\n\n"}
{"id": "32967895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32967895", "title": "Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981", "text": "Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981\n\nThe Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981 (c 45) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which makes it illegal to make fake versions of many things, including legal documents, contracts, audio and visual recordings, and money of the United Kingdom and certain \"protected coins\". It replaces the Forgery Act 1913, the Coinage Offences Act 1936 and parts of the Forgery Act 1861. It implements recommendations made by the Law Commission in their report on forgery and counterfeit currency.\n\nThese offences are the intentional creation and publication of documents which, if not fake, would have legal force. These sections of the law cover all manner of documents, for example wills, contracts, and promissory notes.\n\nSection 1 creates the offence of forgery.\n\nSection 2 creates the offence of copying a false instrument.\n\nSection 3 creates the offence of using a false instrument.\n\nSection 4 creates the offence of using a copy of a false instrument.\n\nSection 13 abolished the common law offence of forgery.\n\nSection 27 defines the expressions \"currency note\" and \"protected coin\".\nThis section makes it illegal to forge or counterfeit money. In addition to the money of the United Kingdom it explicitly states that certain foreign coins are \"protected coins\" under this act, and counterfeiting them is just as great an offence as counterfeiting coins of the United Kingdom.\n\nProtected coin\n\nSection 27(1) provides that, in Part II of the Act, the expression \"protected coin\" means any coin which is customarily used as money in any country, or which is specified for the purposes of Part II in an order made by the Treasury.\n\nThe following coins have been specified for the purposes of Part II:\n\nOrders made under this section\n\nThe power conferred on the Treasury by section 27(1) has been exercised by the following orders:\n\nSection 29 amended section 63 of the Post Office Act 1953. It was repealed on 26 March 2001 by section 127(6) of, and Schedule 9 to, the Postal Services Act 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32243361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32243361", "title": "Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing", "text": "Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing (GHC) is a series of conferences designed to bring the research and career interests of women in computing to the forefront. It is the world's largest gathering of women in computing. The celebration, named after computer scientist Grace Hopper, is organized by the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology and the Association for Computing Machinery. The 2018 conference was held in Houston, Texas on September 26-28. \n\nIn 1994, Anita Borg and Telle Whitney founded the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing. With the initial idea of creating a conference by and for women computer scientists, Borg and Whitney met over dinner, with a blank sheet of paper, having no idea how to start a conference, and started to plan out their vision. The first Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing was held in Washington, D.C., in June 1994, and brought together 500 technical women. More than a dozen conferences have been held from 1994 to the present; the second was held in 1997 and the conference has been held annually since 2006. The sold-out 2010 conference attracted 2,147 attendees from 29 countries. Beginning in 2011, the conference has been held in a convention center to accommodate its growing size.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration consists of a combination of technical sessions and career sessions and includes a poster session, career fair, awards ceremony, and more. The conference features 650 presenters. Potential presenters submit proposals for panels, workshops, presentations, Birds of a Feather sessions, New Investigators papers, PhD Forum, and Poster Session, including ACM Student Research Competition.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration features 10 tracks:\n\n2010 featured tracks on Open Source and Human-Computer Interaction. The Technical Theme Track for 2011 focused on large scale computing.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration features prominent women in technology as Keynote Speakers, Plenary Session Panelists, and Invited Technical Speakers. Speakers have included: Sheryl Sandberg, Shirley Jackson, Carol Bartz, Duy-Loan Le, Maria Klawe, Frances E. Allen, Mary Lou Jepsen, Barbara Liskov, Susan Landau, Jennifer Mankoff, Susan L. Graham, Melinda Gates, and Fernanda Viegas. Speaker presentations are available to watch online after the conference.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration features one of the largest technical poster sessions of any conference, with over 175 posters. Presenters can choose to have their posters considered for the ACM Student Research Competition (SRC) at the Grace Hopper Celebration, the largest SRC of any technical conference.\n\nSeveral awards are presented at the Grace Hopper Celebration to recognize technical women and those who support them, including the Anita Borg Social Impact Award and Anita Borg Technical Leadership Award. The Denice Denton Emerging Leader Award recognizes a non-tenured faculty member for leadership, the Anita Borg Student of Vision Award honors young students in technology supporting the women in computing scene, and the Anita Borg Change Agent Awards recognize technical women in developing countries. In 2011, the first A. Richard Newton Educator Award will recognize teaching practices that attract girls and women into STEM fields. Past awards winners have included Ruzena Bajcsy, BlogHer, Elaine Weyuker and Unoma Ndili Okorafor.\n\nThe Computing Research Association’s Committee on the Status of Women in Computing Research (CRA-W) sponsors a series of sessions at the Grace Hopper Celebration aimed at undergraduates, graduates, and early career researchers. Sessions cover topics such as applying to graduate school, publishing papers, networking, work-life balance, and more.\n\nHosted by the Computer Science Teachers Association and the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, the K-12 Computing Teachers Workshop is a two-day event for K-12 teachers, covering challenges and ways to involve more girls in computer science. The workshop began in 2009, attracting more than 650 applications its first year.\n\nBegun in 2007, the Technical Executive Forum convenes high-level technology executives to discuss challenges and share solutions for recruiting, retaining, and advancing technical women. In 2010, 65 executives attended the event, from companies including Microsoft, Google, and Symantec.\n\nThe Senior Women’s Summit is a one-day event held at the Grace Hopper Celebration, that brings together senior-level women to discuss issues facing senior technical women and provide a learning and networking platform.\n\nGrace Hopper Open Source Day was held for the first time in 2011. One-day registration is open to the public and included for all conference attendees. The event includes a codeathon, skill-building workshop, and exhibition space featuring open source projects.\nParticipating organizations have included Google Crisis Response, Mozilla, Sahana Software Foundation, The Women’s Peer-to-Peer Network, Open Data Kit, Microsoft Disaster Response, OpenHatch, Wikimedia Foundation, E-Democracy, Systers, WordPress and OpenStack.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration features a career fair with over 70 high-tech companies, government labs, and universities.\n\nStudents make up approximately half of the attendees at the Grace Hopper Celebration. The Anita Borg Institute offers scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students to attend the conference. The scholarship includes:\n\nIn 2010, 321 scholarships were awarded. In addition to the GHC Scholarship, Anita Borg Institute offers the ABI-Heinz College Partnership Program. This is designed for students who have successfully completed their bachelor's degree, have been named a GHC Scholar by AnitaB.org, and are interested in obtaining a master's degree from the Heinz College. GHC Scholars who are accepted into master's programs at the Heinz college are eligible for tuition scholarships of a minimum of $6,000 per semester.\n\nThe Grace Hopper Celebration offers free childcare to all attendees, as well as an on-site nursing mothers' room.\n\nPast and future Grace Hopper Celebrations include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17818139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17818139", "title": "Hellenotamiae", "text": "Hellenotamiae\n\nHellenotamiai (Attic Greek: ) was an ancient Greek term indicating a group of public treasurers. The \"Hellenotamiae\" were ten magistrates appointed by the Athenians (one from each tribe, possibly by election) to receive the contributions of the allied states, and were the chief financial officers of the Delian League.\n\nThey were first appointed in 477 BC, when Athens, in consequence of the conduct of the Spartan general Pausanias, had obtained the command of the allied states. The money paid by the different states, which was originally fixed at 460 talents, was deposited in Delos, which was the place of meeting for the discussion of all common interests; and there can be no doubt that the Hellenotamiai not only received, but were also the guardians of these monies, which were called by Xenophon \"Hellenotamia\" ().\n\nThe office was retained after the treasury was transferred from Delos to Athens in 454/453 BC, on the proposal of the Samians. From 453 BC they paid the First Fruits to the treasury of Athena, and disbursed payments on the authority of the assembly, usually to Athenian general on campaign, but also for construction (e.g. Acropolis buildings). Some time around the oligarchic coup of 411 BC, a board of twenty Hellenotamiae were given authority over the state treasury of Athens, as well as that of the Delian League.\n\nThe office was abolished on the conquest of Athens by the Peloponnesians in 404 BC. The Hellenotamiae were not reappointed after the restoration of the democracy; for which reason the grammarians give us little information regarding their responsibilities and duties. The German classical scholar Philipp August Boeckh, however, concluded from inscriptions that they were probably ten in number, chosen by lot (like the treasurers of the gods) out of the \"Pentacosiomedimni\", and that they did not enter upon their office at the beginning of the year, but after the Panathenaea and the first \"Prytaneia\". With regard to their duties, Böckh supposes that they remained treasurers of the monies collected from the allies, and that payments for certain objects were assigned to them. In the first place they would of course pay the expenses of wars in the common cause, as the contributions were originally designed for that purpose; but as the Athenians in course of time considered the money as their own property, the Hellenotamiai had to pay the \"Theorica\" and military expenses not connected with wars on behalf of the common cause.\n"}
{"id": "4585382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585382", "title": "Hooker Oak", "text": "Hooker Oak\n\nHooker Oak was an extremely large valley oak tree (\"Quercus lobata\") in Chico, California. Amateur botanist and local socialite Annie Bidwell, whose husband had founded Chico, named the tree in 1887 after English botanist and Director of the Royal Botanical Gardens Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker. It was featured in the 1938 film \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" starring Errol Flynn. The tree fell in 1977 and portions of the wood was later milled for use by local artisans.\n\nUpon first seeing the tree in 1872, Hooker declared the tree to be the largest of its species in the known world. Since then other valley oaks have been found of similar size. On January 7, 1958, the \"Sacramento Bee\" reported that in 1921 the Hooker Oak was over tall and estimated that 7,885 people could stand under its canopy assuming per person.\n\nWhen it fell on May 1, 1977, it was nearly a hundred feet tall (30 m) and at from the ground, in circumference. The largest branch measured from trunk to tip and the circumference of outside branches was nearly . Its age had been estimated at a thousand years, but on its demise it was found to be two trees, of 325 years each which had long ago grown into one.\n\nFor three years after falling, the tree lay on the ground while city leaders struggled to finally determine its fate. In the spring of 1980, the City of Chico commissioned Cal Oak Lumber Company to remove and reclaim sound portions of the tree at Cal Oak's Oroville hardwood plant. They were allowed to retain some of the wood as compensation. After milling the oak, Cal Oak arranged for the lumber to be dried at the University of California's Forest Products Laboratory.\n\nCal Oak set up a program using local artisans as well as the work training centers for the handicapped to produce a limited number of artistically designed items from its share of the tree. Many of these were given to various institutions, which included the Royal Botanical Gardens in London, the Butte County Historical Society, Bidwell Mansion, Sacramento Valley Museum, Butte College, California State University, Chico, and the University of California at Berkeley. The Royal Botanical Gardens also received acorns from the original tree in 1981 and planted them in their gardens.\n\nPersonnel at both Cal Oak and University of California Berkeley Forestry Lab became intrigued with the lumber. The wood turned out to be as remarkable as was the tree. In order to support its immense crown, the tree grew an abnormal portion of support wood on the upper side of its limbs and stems. This type wood is known as \"tension wood\" and helped provide the tree with an unbelievable high density: .88 specific gravity, roughly 50% heavier than surrounding oaks. This together with other special characteristics, provided the wood with its unique grain and character, and the tree, apparently with its longevity.\n\nThe gavel used at City Council meetings by the mayor of Chico was made from the Hooker Oak. The public benches in the lobby of the Chico City Council Chambers were made out of Hooker Oak wood by local artist Paul Atkins.\n\nThe Hooker Oak was featured Warner Brothers Studio's film \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" (1938). Errol Flynn as Robin Hood forms his outlaw band beside the tree (called the \"Gallows Oak\" in the film).\n\nThe location of the tree is registered as a California Historical Landmark and can be found in Bidwell Park. A booklet, \"The History of the Hooker Oak\" was written by Debra Moon for the City Of Chico Bidwell Park Centennial Hooker Oak Bench Project and printed in July 2005.\n"}
{"id": "33665302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33665302", "title": "Intermat", "text": "Intermat\n\nINTERMAT is an international exhibition of equipment, machinery and techniques for the construction and materials industries, which is held every three years in Paris.\n\nINTERMAT is a major international event showing the equipment and techniques used in the international building and civil engineering sectors. It's the world's third largest exhibition in this sector.\n\nFirst called EXPOMAT, the exhibition was initially held at the Paris – Le Bourget Airport.\nThe show only became INTERMAT in 1988 when it took place at Parc des Expositions de Villepinte for the very first time.\n\nThis trade exhibition is organised by CISMA and Seimat, French professional trade unions for the equipment industry, together with Comexposium, a French trade show organiser.\n\nSeveral manufacturers display their construction machinery and equipment in a dedicated outdoor demonstration area called INTERMAT Demo, providing the opportunity to highlight machinery and equipment performance in simulated working conditions. The programme includes demonstrations of site machinery: backhoe loaders, mechanical diggers, mini-excavators, loaders and graders.\n\n\nA global offering, assembled by the principal international construction equipment manufacturers: Caterpillar, Komatsu, Hitachi, Volvo, Liebherr, JCB, Bobcat Company, Haulotte Group, Case New Holland, John Deere, Michelin, Wirtgen, Groupe Fayat, Mécalac Ahlmann, Manitou, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "900011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900011", "title": "Interwar period", "text": "Interwar period\n\nIn the context of the history of the 20th century, the interwar period was the period between the end of the First World War in November 1918 and the beginning of the Second World War in September 1939.\n\nDespite the relatively short period of time, this period represented an era of significant changes worldwide. Petroleum and associated mechanisation expanded dramatically leading to the Roaring Twenties (and the Golden Twenties), a period of economic prosperity and growth for the middle class in North America, Europe and many other parts of the world. Automobiles, electric lighting, radio broadcasts and more became commonplace among populations in the developed world. The indulgences of this era subsequently were followed by the Great Depression, an unprecedented worldwide economic downturn which severely damaged many of the world's largest economies.\n\nPolitically, this era coincided with the rise of communism, starting in Russia with the October Revolution, at the end of World War I, and ended with the rise of fascism, particularly in Germany and in Italy. China was in the midst of long period of instability and civil war between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China. The Empires of Britain, France and others faced challenges as imperialism was increasingly viewed negatively in Europe, and independence movements in British India, French Indochina, Ireland and other regions gained momentum. \n\nThe Ottoman, Austro-Hungarian and German empires were dismantled. The Ottoman and German Empire's colonies were redistributed among the Allies. The far western part of the Russian Empire broke away: Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland became independent nation states, while Bessarabia (the Republic of Moldova) chose to reunify with Romania. \n\nThe Communists in Moscow managed to regain control in Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. Ireland was split, with the larger part being independent of Britain. In the Middle East, Egypt and Iraq gained independence. During the Great Depression, Latin American countries nationalised many foreign companies (particularly American) in a bid to strengthen their local economies. Japanese, German, Italian and Russian territorial ambitions led to expansions of these empires, which set the stage for the subsequent world war.\n\nThe German and Soviet invasion of Poland in September 1939 is considered the start of World War II and the end of the interwar period.\n\nFollowing the Armistice of 11 November 1918 that ended World War I, the years 1919–24 were marked by turmoil as affected regions struggled to recover from the devastation of the First World War and the destabilising effects of the loss of four large historic empires: the German Empire, Austro-Hungarian Empire, Russian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. There were numerous new nations in Eastern Europe, most of them small in size. The United States gained dominance in world finance. Thus, when Germany could no longer afford war reparations to Britain, France and other Allies, the Americans came up with the Dawes Plan and Wall Street invested heavily in Germany, which repaid its reparations to nations that, in turn, used the dollars to pay off their war debts to Washington. By the middle of the decade, prosperity was widespread, with the second half of the decade known, especially in Germany, as the \"Golden Twenties\".\n\nThe important stages of interwar diplomacy and international relations included resolutions of wartime issues, such as reparations owed by Germany and boundaries; American involvement in European finances and disarmament projects; the expectations and failures of the League of Nations; the relationships of the new countries to the old; the distrustful relations of the Soviet Union to the capitalist world; peace and disarmament efforts; responses to the Great Depression starting in 1929; the collapse of world trade; the collapse of democratic regimes one by one; the growth of economic autarky; Japanese aggressiveness toward China, occupying most of China's pacific coastline, as well as border disputes with the Soviet Union and Japanese Empire leading to multiple clashes along the Soviet and Japanese occupied manchurian border; Fascist diplomacy, including the aggressive moves by Mussolini's Italy and Hitler's Germany; the Spanish Civil War; Italy's invasion and occupation of Abyssinia (Ethiopia) in the Horn of Africa; the appeasement of Germany's expansionist moves toward the German-speaking state of Austria, the region inhabitanted by ethnic germans called the sudetenland in Czechoslovakia, the remilitarization of the Legue of Nations demilitarized zone of the German Rhineland region, and the last, desperate stages of rearmament as the second world war increasingly loomed.\n\nDisarmament was high on the popular agenda. The League of Nations played little role, but the United States and Britain took the lead. U.S. Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes sponsored the Washington Naval Conference of 1921 in fixing how many major ships each major country was allowed. The new allocations were actually followed and there were no naval races in the 1920s. Britain played a leading role in the 1927 Geneva Naval Conference and the 1930 London Conference that led to the London Naval Treaty. However the refusal of Japan, Germany, Italy and Russia to go along led to the meaningless Second London Naval Treaty of 1936. Naval disarmament had collapsed and the issue became rearming for a war against Germany and Japan.\n\nThe \"Roaring Twenties\" highlighted novel and highly visible social and cultural trends and innovations. These trends, made possible by sustained economic prosperity, were most visible in major cities like New York, Chicago, Paris, Berlin, and London. The Jazz Age began and Art Deco peaked. For women, knee-length skirts and dresses became socially acceptable, as did bobbed hair with a marcel wave. The young women who pioneered these trends were called \"flappers\". Not all was new: “normalcy” returned to politics in the wake of hyper-emotional wartime passions in the United States, France, and Germany. The leftist revolutions in Finland, Poland, Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Spain were defeated by conservatives, but succeeded in Russia, which became the base for Soviet Communism. In Italy the fascists came to power under Mussolini after threatening a March on Rome in 1922.\n\nMost independent countries enacted women's suffrage in the interwar era, including Canada in 1917 (though Quebec held out longer), Britain in 1918, and the United States in 1920. There were a few major countries that held out until after the Second World War (such as France, Switzerland and Portugal). Leslie Hume argues:\n\nIn Europe, according to Derek Aldcroft and Steven Morewood, \"Nearly all countries registered some economic progress in the 1920s and most of them managed to regain or surpass their pre-war income and production levels by the end of the decade.\" The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Greece did especially well, while Eastern Europe did poorly. In advanced economies the prosperity reached middle class households and many in the working class. with radio, automobiles, telephones, and electric lighting and appliances. There was unprecedented industrial growth, accelerated consumer demand and aspirations, and significant changes in lifestyle and culture. The media began to focus on celebrities, especially sports heroes and movie stars. Major cities built large sports stadiums for the fans, in addition to palatial cinemas. The mechanization of agriculture continued apace, producing on expansion of output that lowered prices, and made many farm workers redundant. Often they moved to nearby industrial towns and cities.\n\nThe Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression that took place after 1929. The timing varied across nations; in most countries it started in 1929 and lasted until the late 1930s. It was the longest, deepest, and most widespread depression of the 20th century. The depression originated in the United States and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 (known as Black Tuesday). Between 1929 and 1932, worldwide GDP fell by an estimated 15%. By comparison, worldwide GDP fell by less than 1% from 2008 to 2009 during the Great Recession. Some economies started to recover by the mid-1930s. However, in many countries, the negative effects of the Great Depression lasted until the beginning of World War II.\n\nThe Great Depression had devastating effects in countries both rich and poor. Personal income, tax revenue, profits, and prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50%. Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25% and in some countries rose as high as 33%. Prices fell sharply, especially for mining and agricultural commodities. Business profits fell sharply as well, with a sharp reduction in new business starts.\n\nCities all around the world were hit hard, especially those dependent on heavy industry. Construction was virtually halted in many countries. Farming communities and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by about 60%. Facing plummeting demand with few alternative sources of jobs, areas dependent on primary sector industries such as mining and logging suffered the most.\n\nThe Weimar Republic in Germany gave way to two episodes of political and economic turmoil, the first culminated in the German hyperinflation of 1923 and the failed Beer Hall Putsch of that same year. The second convulsion, brought on by the worldwide depression, resulted in the rise of Nazism. In Asia, Japan became an ever more assertive power, especially with regard to China.\n\nDemocracy and prosperity largely went together in the 1920s. Economic disaster led to a distrust in the effectiveness of democracy and its collapse in most of Europe, including the Baltic and Balkan countries, Poland, Spain, and Portugal. Powerful expansionary dictatorships emerged in Italy, Japan, and Germany.\n\nWhile communism was tightly contained in the isolated Soviet Union, fascism took control of Italy in 1922; as the depression worsened, it took over Germany, and played a major role in numerous countries in Europe, and several in Latin America. Fascist parties sprang up, attuned to local right-wing traditions, but also possessing common features that typically included extreme militaristic nationalism, economic self-containment, threats and aggression toward neighboring countries, oppression of minorities, ridicule of democracy while using its techniques to mobilize an angry lower middle class base, and disgust with cultural liberalism. Fascists believed in power, violence, male superiority, and a natural hierarchy, often led by dictators such as Benito Mussolini or Adolf Hitler. Fascism in power meant that liberalism and human rights were discarded and individual pursuits and values were subordinated to what the party decided was best.\n\nSpain had never had a stable history in centuries, and in 1936-39 was wracked by one of the bloodiest civil wars of the 20th century. The real importance comes from outside countries. Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany gave munitions and strong military units to the rebel Nationalists, led by General Francisco Franco. The Republican (or \"Loyalist\") government, which had been elected in a democratic election in 1935, was on the defensive, but it received significant help from the Soviet Union, and from international volunteers. Led by Great Britain and France, and including the United States, most countries remained neutral and refused to provide armaments to either side. The fear was that this localized conflict would escalate into a European conflagration that was strongly opposed by the vast majority of Europeans and Americans.\n\nThe Spanish Civil War was marked by numerous small battles and sieges, and many atrocities, until the Nationalists won in 1939. The military intervention was decisive, as the Spanish army sided with the Nationalists, and together with Italian infantry and German air force and armored units overwhelmed the government forces. The Soviet Union provided armaments but never enough to equip the heterogeneous government militias and the \"International Brigades\" of outside far-left volunteers. The civil war did not escalate into a larger conflict, but did become a worldwide ideological battleground that pitted all the Communists and many socialists and liberals against Catholics, conservatives and fascists. Worldwide there was a decline in pacifism and a growing sense that another world war was imminent, and that it would be worth fighting for.\n\nThe changing world order that the war had brought about, in particular the growth of the United States and Japan as naval powers, and the rise of independence movements in India and Ireland, caused a major reassessment of British imperial policy. Forced to choose between alignment with the United States or Japan, Britain opted not to renew its Japanese alliance and instead signed the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty, where Britain accepted naval parity with the United States. The issue of the empire's security was a serious concern in Britain, as it was vital to the British pride, its finance, and its trade-oriented economy.\nIndia strongly supported the Empire in the First World War. It expected a reward, but failed to get home rule as the Raj kept control in British hands and feared another rebellion like that of 1857. The Government of India Act 1919 failed to satisfy demand for independence. Mounting tension, particularly in the Punjab region, culminated in the Amritsar Massacre in 1919. Nationalism surged and centered in the Congress Party led by Mohandas Gandhi. In Britain public opinion was divided over the morality of the massacre, between those who saw it as having saved India from anarchy, and those who viewed it with revulsion.\n\nEgypt had been under de facto British control since the 1880s, despite its nominal ownership by the Ottoman Empire. In 1922 it was granted formal independence, though it continued to be a client state following British guidance. Egypt joined the League of Nations. Egypt's King Faud and his son King Farouk, and their conservative allies, stayed in power with lavish lifestyles thanks to an informal alliance with Britain who would protect them from both secular and Muslim radicalism. Iraq, a British mandate since 1920, gained official independence in 1932 when King Faisal agreed to British terms of a military alliance and an assured flow of oil.\n\nIn Palestine, Britain was presented with the problem of mediating between the Arabs and increasing numbers of Jews. The 1917 Balfour Declaration, which had been incorporated into the terms of the mandate, stated that a national home for the Jewish people would be established in Palestine, and Jewish immigration allowed up to a limit that would be determined by the mandatory power. This led to increasing conflict with the Arab population, who openly revolted in 1936. As the threat of war with Germany increased during the 1930s, Britain judged the support of Arabs as more important than the establishment of a Jewish homeland, and shifted to a pro-Arab stance, limiting Jewish immigration and in turn triggering a Jewish insurgency.\n\nThe Dominions (Canada, Newfoundland, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Ireland) were self-governing and gained semi-independence in the World War. Britain still controlled foreign policy and defence. The right of the Dominions to set their own foreign policy was recognised in 1923 and formalised by the 1931 Statute of Westminster. Ireland effectively broke all ties with London in 1937.\n\nFrench census statistics from 1931 show an imperial population, outside of France itself, of 64.3 million people living on 11.9 million square kilometers. Of the total population, 39.1 million lived in Africa and 24.5 million lived in Asia; 700,000 lived in the Caribbean area or islands in the South Pacific. The largest colonies were Indochina with 21.5 million (in five separate colonies), Algeria with 6.6 million, Morocco, with 5.4 million, and West Africa with 14.6 million in nine colonies. The total includes 1.9 million Europeans, and 350,000 \"assimilated\" natives.\n\nThe Berber independence leader Abd el-Krim (1882-1963) organized armed resistance against the Spanish and French for control of Morocco. The Spanish had faced unrest off and on from the 1890s, but in 1921 Spanish forces were massacred at the Battle of Annual El-Krim founded an independent Rif Republic that operated until 1926 but had no international recognition. Paris and Madrid agreed to collaborate to destroy it. They sent in 200,000 soldiers, forcing el-Krim to surrender in 1926; he was exiled in the Pacific until 1947. Morocco became quiet, and in 1936 became the base from which Francisco Franco launched his revolt against Madrid.\n\nThe humiliating peace terms in the Treaty of Versailles provoked bitter indignation throughout Germany, and seriously weakened the new democratic regime. The Treaty stripped Germany of all of its overseas colonies, of Alsace and Lorraine, and of predominantly Polish districts. The Allied armies occupied industrial sectors in western Germany including the Rhineland, and Germany was not allowed to have a real army, navy, or air force. Reparations were demanded, especially by France, involving shipments of raw materials, as well as annual payments.\n\nWhen Germany defaulted on its reparation payments, French and Belgian troops occupied the heavily industrialised Ruhr district (January 1923). The German government encouraged the population of the Ruhr to passive resistance: shops would not sell goods to the foreign soldiers, coal mines would not dig for the foreign troops, trams in which members of the occupation army had taken seat would be left abandoned in the middle of the street. The German government printed vast quantities of paper money, causing hyperinflation, which also damaged the French economy. The passive resistance proved effective, insofar as the occupation became a loss-making deal for the French government. But the hyperinflation caused many prudent savers to lose all the money they had saved. Weimar added new internal enemies every year, as anti-democratic Nazis, Nationalists, and Communists battled each other in the streets. See 1920s German inflation.\n\nGermany was the first state to establish diplomatic relations with the new Soviet Union. Under the Treaty of Rapallo, Germany accorded the Soviet Union \"de jure\" recognition, and the two signatories mutually cancelled all pre-war debts and renounced war claims. In October 1925 the Treaty of Locarno was signed by Germany, France, Belgium, Britain, and Italy; it recognised Germany's borders with France and Belgium. Moreover, Britain, Italy, and Belgium undertook to assist France in the case that German troops marched into the demilitarised Rhineland. Locarno paved the way for Germany's admission to the League of Nations in 1926.\n\nHitler came to power in January 1933, and inaugurated an aggressive power designed to give Germany economic and political domination across central Europe. He did not attempt to recover the lost colonies. Until August 1939, the Nazis denounced Communists and the Soviet Union as the greatest enemy, along with the Jews.\nHitler's diplomatic strategy in the 1930s was to make seemingly reasonable demands, threatening war if they were not met. When opponents tried to appease him, he accepted the gains that were offered, then went to the next target. That aggressive strategy worked as Germany pulled out of the League of Nations (1933), rejected the Versailles Treaty, and began to re-arm (1935), won back the Saar (1935), remilitarized the Rhineland (1936), formed an alliance (\"axis\") with Mussolini's Italy (1936), sent massive military aid to Franco in the Spanish Civil War (1936–39), seized Austria (1938), took over Czechoslovakia after the British and French \"appeasement\" of the Munich Agreement of 1938, formed a peace pact with Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union in August 1939, and finally invaded Poland in September 1939. Britain and France declared war and World War II began – somewhat sooner than the Nazis expected or were ready for.\n\nAfter establishing the \"Rome-Berlin axis\" with Benito Mussolini, and signing the Anti-Comintern Pact with Japan – which was joined by Italy a year later in 1937 – Hitler felt able to take the offensive in foreign policy. On 12 March 1938, German troops marched into Austria, where an attempted Nazi coup had been unsuccessful in 1934. When Austrian-born Hitler entered Vienna, he was greeted by loud cheers. Four weeks later, 99% of Austrians voted in favour of the annexation (Anschluss) of their country Austria to the German Reich. After Austria, Hitler turned to Czechoslovakia, where the 3.5 million-strong Sudeten German minority was demanding equal rights and self-government.\n\nAt the Munich Conference of September 1938, Hitler, the Italian leader Benito Mussolini, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, and French Prime Minister Édouard Daladier agreed upon the cession of Sudeten territory to the German Reich by Czechoslovakia. Hitler thereupon declared that all of German Reich's territorial claims had been fulfilled. However, hardly six months after the Munich Agreement, in March 1939, Hitler used the smoldering quarrel between Slovaks and Czechs as a pretext for taking over the rest of Czechoslovakia as the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. In the same month, he secured the return of Memel from Lithuania to Germany. Chamberlain was forced to acknowledge that his policy of appeasement towards Hitler had failed.\n\nIn 1922, the leader of the Italian fascist movement, Benito Mussolini, became Prime Minister of Italy after the March on Rome. Mussolini resolved the question of sovereignty over the Dodecanese at the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne, which formalized Italian administration of both Libya and the Dodecanese Islands, in return for a payment to Turkey, the successor state to the Ottoman Empire, though he failed in an attempt to extract a mandate of a portion of Iraq from Britain.\n\nThe month following the ratification of the Lausanne treaty, Mussolini ordered the invasion of the Greek island of Corfu after the Corfu incident. The Italian press supported the move, noting that Corfu had been a Venetian possession for four hundred years. The matter was taken by Greece to the League of Nations, where Mussolini was convinced by Britain to evacuate Italian troops, in return for reparations from Greece. The confrontation led Britain and Italy to resolve the question of Jubaland in 1924, which was merged into Italian Somaliland.\n\nDuring the late 1920s, imperial expansion became an increasingly favoured theme in Mussolini's speeches. Amongst Mussolini's aims were that Italy had to become the dominant power in the Mediterranean that would be able to challenge France or Britain, as well as attain access to the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Mussolini alleged that Italy required uncontested access to the world's oceans and shipping lanes to ensure its national sovereignty. This was elaborated on in a document he later drew up in 1939 called \"The March to the Oceans\", and included in the official records of a meeting of the Grand Council of Fascism. This text asserted that maritime position determined a nation's independence: countries with free access to the high seas were independent; while those who lacked this, were not. Italy, which only had access to an inland sea without French and British acquiescence, was only a \"semi-independent nation\", and alleged to be a \"prisoner in the Mediterranean\":\n\nIn the Balkans, the Fascist regime claimed Dalmatia and held ambitions over Albania, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vardar Macedonia, and Greece based on the precedent of previous Roman dominance in these regions. Dalmatia and Slovenia were to be directly annexed into Italy while the remainder of the Balkans was to be transformed into Italian client states. The regime also sought to establish protective patron-client relationships with Austria, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria.\n\nIn both 1932 and 1935, Italy demanded a League of Nations mandate of the former German Cameroon and a free hand in Ethiopia from France in return for Italian support against Germany (see Stresa Front). This was refused by French Prime Minister Édouard Herriot, who was not yet sufficiently worried about the prospect of a German resurgence. The failed resolution of the Abyssinia Crisis led to the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, in which Italy annexed Ethiopia to its empire.\n\nItaly's stance towards Spain shifted between the 1920s and the 1930s. The Fascist regime in the 1920s held deep antagonism towards Spain due to Miguel Primo de Rivera's pro-French foreign policy. In 1926, Mussolini began aiding the Catalan separatist movement, which was led by Francesc Macià, against the Spanish government. With the rise of the left-wing Republican government replacing the Spanish monarchy, Spanish monarchists and fascists repeatedly approached Italy for aid in overthrowing the Republican government, in which Italy agreed to support them in order to establish a pro-Italian government in Spain. In July 1936, Francisco Franco of the Nationalist faction in the Spanish Civil War requested Italian support against the ruling Republican faction, and guaranteed that, if Italy supported the Nationalists, \"future relations would be more than friendly\" and that Italian support \"would have permitted the influence of Rome to prevail over that of Berlin in the future politics of Spain\". Italy intervened in the civil war with the intention of occupying the Balearic Islands and creating a client state in Spain. Italy sought the control of the Balearic Islands due to its strategic position – Italy could use the islands as a base to disrupt the lines of communication between France and its North African colonies and between British Gibraltar and Malta. After the victory by Franco and the Nationalists in the war, Allied intelligence was informed that Italy was pressuring Spain to permit an Italian occupation of the Balearic Islands.\n\nAfter the United Kingdom signed the Anglo-Italian Easter Accords in 1938, Mussolini and foreign minister Ciano issued demands for concessions in the Mediterranean by France, particularly regarding Djibouti, Tunisia and the French-run Suez Canal. Three weeks later, Mussolini told Ciano that he intended for Italy to demand an Italian takeover of Albania. Mussolini professed that Italy would only be able to \"breathe easily\" if it had acquired a contiguous colonial domain in Africa from the Atlantic to the Indian Oceans, and when ten million Italians had settled in them. In 1938, Italy demanded a sphere of influence in the Suez Canal in Egypt, specifically demanding that the French-dominated Suez Canal Company accept an Italian representative on its board of directors. Italy opposed the French monopoly over the Suez Canal because, under the French-dominated Suez Canal Company, all Italian merchant traffic to its colony of Italian East Africa was forced to pay tolls on entering the canal.\n\nThe local Albanian chieftain who in 1922 had himself proclaimed king as Zog I, failed to create a strong state. Albanian society was deeply divided by religion and language, with disputed borders and an undeveloped rural economy. In 1939, Italy invaded and captured Albania and made it a part of the Italian Empire as a separate kingdom in personal union with the Italian crown. Italy had long built strong links with the Albanian leadership and considered it firmly within its sphere of influence. Mussolini wanted a spectacular success over a smaller neighbour to match Germany's absorption of Austria and Czechoslovakia. Italian King Victor Emmanuel III took the Albanian crown, and a fascist government under Shefqet Verlaci was established to rule over Albania.\n\nThe Japanese modelled their industrial economy closely on the most advanced European models. They started with textiles, railways, and shipping, expanding to electricity and machinery. the most serious weakness was a shortage of raw materials. Industry ran short of copper and coal became a net importer. A deep flaw in the aggressive military strategy was a heavy dependence on imports including 100 percent of the aluminum, 85 percent of the iron ore, and especially 79 percent of the oil supplies. it was one thing to go to war with China or Russia, but quite another to be in conflict with the key suppliers, especially the United States Britain and the Netherlands, which supply the oil and iron.\n\nJapan joined the Allies of the First World War in order to make territorial gains. Together with the British Empire it divided up Germany's territories scattered in the Pacific and on the China coast; they did not amount to very much. The other Allies pushed back hard against Japan's efforts to dominate China through the Twenty-One Demands of 1915. Its occupation of Siberia proved unproductive. Japan's wartime diplomacy and limited military action had produced few results, and at the Paris Versailles peace conference. at the end of the war, Japan frustrated in its ambitions. At the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, its demands for racial parity, and an increasing diplomatic isolation. The 1902 alliance with Britain was not renewed in 1922 because of heavy pressure on Britain from Canada and the United States. In the 1920s Japanese diplomacy was rooted in an largely liberal democratic political system, and favored internationalism. By 1930, however, Japan was rapidly reversing itself, rejecting democracy at home, as the Army seized more and more power, and rejecting internationalism and liberalism. By the late 1930s it had joined the Axis military alliance with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy.\n\nIn 1930, the London disarmament conference angered the Japanese Army and Navy. Japan's navy demanded parity with the United States and Britain, but was rejected and the conference kept the 1921 ratios. Japan was required to scrap a capital ship. Extremists assassinated Japan's prime minister and the military took more power, leading to the rapid decline in democracy.\n\nIn September 1931, the Japanese Army—acting on its own without government approval—seized control of Manchuria, an anarchic area that China had not controlled in decades. It set up a puppet government of Manchukuo. Britain and France effectively control the League of Nations, which issued the Lytton Report in 1932, saying that Japan had genuine grievances, but it acted illegally in seizing the entire province. Japan quit the League, Britain took no action. The US Secretary of State announces that it would not recognize Japan's conquest as legitimate. Germany welcomed Japan's actions.\n\nThe civilian government in Tokyo tried to minimize the Army's aggression in Manchuria, and announced it was withdrawing. On the contrary, the Army completed the conquest of Manchuria, and the civilian cabinet resigned. The political parties were divided on the issue of military expansion. The new Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi tried to negotiate with China, but was assassinated in the May 15 Incident in 1932, which Ushered in an era of ultranationalism led by the Army and supported by patriotic societies. It ended civilian rule in Japan until after 1945.\n\nThe Army, however, was itself divided into cliques and factions with different strategic viewpoints. One faction saw The Soviet Union is the main enemy, the other sought to build a mighty empire based in Manchuria and northern China. The Navy, while smaller and less influential, was also factionalized. Large-scale warfare, known as the Second Sino-Japanese War, began in August 1937, with naval and infantry attacks focused on Shanghai, which quickly spread to other major cities. There were numerous large-scale atrocities against Chinese civilians, such as the Nanking Massacre in December 1937, with mass murder and mass rape. By 1939 military lines had stabilized, with Japan in control of almost all of the major Chinese cities and industrial areas. A puppet government was set up. In the U.S., government and public opinion—even including those who were isolationist regarding Europe—was resolutely opposed to Japan and gave strong support to China. Meanwhile, the Japanese Army fared badly in large battles with Soviet forces in Mongolia at the Battles of Khalkhin Gol in summer 1939. The USSR was too powerful. Tokyo and Moscow signed a nonaggression treaty in April 1941, as the militarists turned their attention to the European colonies to the south which had urgently needed oil fields.\n\nThe Great Depression posed a great challenge to the region. The collapse of the world economy meant that the demand for raw materials drastically declined, undermining many of the economies of Latin America. Intellectuals and government leaders in Latin America turned their backs on the older economic policies and turned toward import substitution industrialization. The goal was to create self-sufficient economies, which would have their own industrial sectors and large middle classes and which would be immune to the ups and downs of the global economy. Despite the potential threats to United States commercial interests, the Roosevelt administration (1933–1945) understood that the United States could not wholly oppose import substitution. Roosevelt implemented a Good Neighbor policy and allowed the nationalization of some American companies in Latin America. Mexican President Lázaro Cárdenas nationalized American oil companies, out of which he created Pemex. Cárdenas also oversaw the redistribution of a quantity of land, fulfilling the hopes of many since the start of the Mexican Revolution. The Platt Amendment was also repealed, freeing Cuba from legal and official interference of the United States in its politics. The Second World War also brought the United States and most Latin American nations together, with Argentina the main hold out.\n\nSports became increasingly popular, drawing enthusiastic fans to large stadia. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) worked to encourage Olympic ideals and participation. Following the 1922 Latin American Games in Rio de Janeiro, the IOC helped to establish national Olympic committees and prepare for future competition. In Brazil, however, sporting and political rivalries slowed progress as opposing factions fought for control of international sport. The 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris and the 1928 Summer Olympics games in Amsterdam saw greatly increased participation from Latin American athletes. \n\nEnglish and Scottish engineers had brought futebol (soccer) to Brazil in the late 19th century. The International Committee of the YMCA of North America and the Playground Association of America played major roles in training coaches. Across the globe after 1912, the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) played the chief role in the transformation of association football into a global game, working with national and regional organizations, and setting up the rules and customs, and establishing championships such as the World Cup.\n\nThe interwar period ended in September 1939 with the German invasion of Poland and the start of World War II.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51994109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51994109", "title": "Khorshid Karevan", "text": "Khorshid Karevan\n\nKhorshid Karevan () is an Iranian play written by Mahdi Motevasseli from Fadak Cultural Institute played on scene for 26 consecutive years in Iran. The play has also been on scene in countries other than Iran including UK, UAE and the Netherlands. The popular religious theater in 2015 attracted 23000 spectators attending the performance in Tehran in Milad tower. It has been estimated that more than a million spectators in total have seen the performance over the past 26 years. The theater goes on scene in Muharram and Safar in memory of Ashura and its aftermath every year in Tehran and other cities in Iran.\n\nHossein Mosafer Astaneh and Mahmoud Farhang has been the first and the second directors of the play respectively.\n\nAnoushirvan Arjmand has been playing the role of the Christian Monk for 22 years until he died in 2014. Jalil Farjad replaced him in 2015. Keramat Roodsaz, Asadollah Babaii, Farhad BEsharati and Mahdi Amini are among the players for the last performance.\n\nA Christian Monk with his junior student (Petros) discuss the actual reference of the names \"Ilia\", \"Shebr\" and \"Shobair\" mentioned in the holy book in a remote, worn-out church outside Levant where the Caravan of Captives of Karbala along with Kufa army commander and soldiers reached the church. The soldiers discovers an ancient slate in the church that mentions the name of Hussein and damned his murderers and think that the Christian Monk and his student are connected to Hussein somehow and get ready to kill them. Hereafter the night at the church sees a lot of dramatic events and emotional episodes where the story of Ashura are being gradually told by the characters.\n\nThe current form of play is inspired from the play named \"Haiha't\" written by Abu Basem Hayadaar.\n\n"}
{"id": "19186096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19186096", "title": "La Princesse", "text": "La Princesse\n\nLa Princesse is a 15-metre (50-foot) mechanical spider designed and operated by French performance art company La Machine. The spider was showcased in Liverpool, England, as part of the 2008 European Capital of Culture celebrations, travelling around the city between 3-7 September. In 2009, it was on display in Yokohama, Japan, as part of Yokohama's 150th anniversary of its port opening. Arts reviewer Lyn Gardner wrote in \"The Guardian\" \"There were times when it seemed to be leading the entire population of the city on a merry dance, like some kind of arachnid pied piper.\"\n\nThe spider was designed by La Machine's François Delarozière, who also designed the mechanical elephant and the giant girl for Royal de Luxe's performance of The Sultan's Elephant which visited London in May 2006. Both projects were brought to the UK by the company and charitable trust Artichoke. The spider was built in Nantes in France, using steel and poplar wood and complex hydraulics, and took an entire year to construct. It was shipped to Merseyside and assembled in a secret location, the Cammell Laird shipyard in Birkenhead. It weighs 37 tonnes, has 50 axes of movement and is operated by up to 12 people strapped to its body. When operated, it moves at 2 miles per hour; to move it around the streets requires 16 cranes, six forklift trucks, eight cherry pickers and 250 crew. The spider had seven different special effects: rain, flame, smoke, wind, snow, light and sound. Street lights and a roundabout outside the Queensway Tunnel entrance were removed to allow its progress.\n\nThe performance artists of La Machine created a story about the spider with one member of the company playing scientist Joseph Browning who gave interviews to the press. The spider was followed by a full live band, housed in their own platforms on top of fortlift trucks and cherry pickers. The musicians played specially composed music by Dominique Malan, the special effects were designed by Thierry Loridant and the costumes were designed by Gaelle Choveau.\n\nOn Wednesday 3 September the spider appeared for the first time on the side of Concourse House, a derelict tower block in Lime Street, which had been designed by architect Richard Seifert and was scheduled for demolition.\n\nOn the morning of Friday 5 September, the spider moved to the Albert Dock, and it became active at lunchtime, moving in a small area and spraying the public with water. In the evening the spider travelled from the Albert Dock to the Cunard Building, via Salthouse Dock. A huge crowd turned out despite the heavy rain. The performance move around the Albert Dock and proceeded onto The Strand. The moving cordon of stewards surrounded the spider as it moved through the crowd. The spider sprayed water onto the crowds and interacted with members of the public. It then turned off the Strand and back into the Albert Dock. Here it paused and was lifted from its traction body by a huge crane and into Salthouse Dock, where it was sprayed (along with the crowd) by huge water cannons. After its 'bath' it returned to its traction body and walked along The Strand to its resting place for the night next to the Royal Liver Building. \n\nOn Saturday 6 September the spider was due to travel through the streets of Liverpool, 'walking' from the Cunard Building via Water Street, Castle St, Lord St, Parker St and Ranelagh Place back up to Concourse House. At 2:30 pm the Performance started with the spider ‘awakening’ and starting to walk up Water Street towards the city centre. Liverpool was crowded with its usual Saturday afternoon shopping crowd and the tens of thousands who had turned out to see the spider. The spider ‘walked’ through the middle of the Saturday shopping crowd, up through the city centre's streets, and right into the heart of the city's shopping district. The crowd was dispersed by the moving cordon around the spider. Local media reported that the scene was more representative of a victory parade of a football team or the crowds attracted by the Beatles to the city centre in their heyday. One bride could not get through the crowds to her wedding at the Town Hall and had to be helped through the crowd on foot by the police. The spider's musicians played an impromptu wedding march as they fought through the crowd. Various set pieces took place along the spider's route, involving smoke, fireworks and water cannon. The spider worked its way towards the main shopping area, passing Liverpool One. When the spider reached the centre of Lord Street, it was covered by a snow shower from above to make it go to sleep. It came to a rest at around 5 pm, taking a break before its further exploits that evening.\n\nThe next chapter of the story continued the same day and involved the city ‘fighting back’ and attempting to halt the path of the invading spider. At 7:30 pm the spider ‘awoke’ and continued to move up the main shopping street, Church Street. When it reached the top of the street it was met by a barrage of flame cannons. These consisted of long copper pipes, fired with high pressure gas. The heat and noise produced by this halted the spider in its tracks, while a mechanical digger moved in to attempt to fell the beast. The spider then changed its path to escape this and moved upwards towards Lime Street. Upon reaching Lime Street the spider was met by huge fans, which blew air to attempted to hold it back. The performance continued onwards towards Lime Street Station and the empty Concourse Tower, where it had first been sighted on Wednesday. A further barrage of flames stopped the spider from moving on any further and it turned towards the station. Cranes then moved in to lift it from its traction body and, with operators still on board, it started to moved into a vertical position. The spider then moved from one crane to another and amazingly attached itself to the side of the tower. A snow shower then engulfed the spider and it went to sleep for the evening.\n\nOn Sunday 7 September a large crowd of spectators went to the Concourse House to see it climb back down the building. The spider then crawled down the streets of Liverpool city centre, spraying the crowd with water. The spider then moved across St Georges Plateau amongst a huge crowd and down towards the Queensway Tunnel. Fireworks erupted from surrounding buildings as it passed. Watched by tens of thousands of people, it investigated the area outside the Queensway Tunnel's entrance, setting off huge water cannons and flames around the area, followed by hundreds of fireworks which detonated above the spider and the public. The spider then turned to face the crowd and moved backwards as it disappeared in a cloud of smoke into the tunnel entrance.\n\nThe project, which was free to the public, cost between £1.8 and £1.9 million to stage, of which £1.5 million came from the Liverpool Culture Company (in turn funded by the city, the Arts Council and the Department of Culture, Media and Sport). The cost of the project has been defended by Phil Redmond, who is responsible for the performance as Liverpool Culture Company's artistic director. He said \"At £1.5m I think it's actually cheaper than (booking) Macca (Sir Paul McCartney) and it has got us on the front of the South China Morning Post. So it's good value for money.\" However, the project has come in for criticism in some quarters: the UK mental health charity Anxiety has highlighted the potentially traumatic effect of the production upon those suffering with arachnophobia,\" and the TaxPayers' Alliance has called the artwork an \"outrageous waste of taxpayers' money\". The vast majority of the public response was positive, however, with most of the belief that \"The Liverpool Princesse's\" performance was the highlight of the city's Capital of Culture 2008 celebrations. On 8 September, \"BBC North West Tonight\", a regional news programme, revealed that plans were afoot to secure La Princesse to stay permanently in Liverpool, and talks had already been held with La Machine. \n\nAlthough the event was free to the public, there has been a shortfall of between £300,000 and £400,000 in funding for the project, exacerbated by the falling exchange rate with the Euro, the currency in which the French participants are paid. Artichoke has appealed for donations to help fund the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25012650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012650", "title": "Leskovac Grill Festival", "text": "Leskovac Grill Festival\n\nThe Leskovac Grill Festival (, also translated as \"barbecue week\") is a yearly grilled-meat festival organised in Leskovac, Serbia at the beginning of September. During the event, the main boulevard is closed for traffic, night and day for five days, and all its way there are grill-stands constructed, to create many temporary restaurants. Many visitors from all over Serbia and many tourists from abroad come to Leskovac to enjoy a grill and entertainment. The organisers hold competitions, such as in making the World Biggest Burger - the Pljeskavica. The festival is the highlight of the season in Leskovac.\n\nTo attract tourists from Serbia and abroad, the tourist organization organizes every year attractive concerts, fashion shows, carnivals, Miss Election during the period of Roštiljijada Festival. So far a lot has been done by raising quality, organizing a festival modeled on the Oktoberfest in Munich, such as a media presentations and good marketing which resulted in a very successful festival. According to the City Tourist Board, the number of visitors is one of the top touristic events in Serbia. In 2013, a record number of 600,000 people visited the festival. More than 200 barbecues were operational.\n\nIn addition to guests from Serbia, a large number of visitors from abroad visiting festival as well mostly from Slovenia, Bulgaria, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Hungary, Romania and France.\n\nIn September 2016, Leskovac celebrated a world record in making the world's biggest burger – the pljeskavica. The giant burger weighs 63 kilograms (138,8 lb), was 169 centimeters in diameter and 8 centimeters thick and made by the great grill master Predrag Lazarević and his team Ljubiša Đorđević and Bojan Živković. Ljubiša Đorđević who previously held the world record for his hamburger which weighted 49 kilograms (108 lb).\n\nIn 2009, Leskovac officially became an International Carnival city, admitted by The Association of European Carnival cities, which has over 50 members from Europe and America. The Leskovac Carnival is held in a time of the Roštiljijada festival. Around 1,200 people take part in the carnival, of which one third come from abroad. The city government considered having a separation of this event in 2010, as a special tourist event which is going to be introduced as a special offer of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "54209588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54209588", "title": "Liquicity", "text": "Liquicity\n\nLiquicity is a Dutch liquid drum and bass record label, YouTube channel and events promotor, run by Maris Goudzwaard and Mark van der Schoot (better known by his stage name Maduk) since 2011.\n\nMaris Goudzwaard created his \"Liquicity\" YouTube channel in 2008, with the idea of starting an entirely new subculture within Drum & Bass. He curated a particular type of drum and bass music that had previously not been labeled, and by doing so gave shape to a worldwide music community. The channel quickly attracted fans –who would become known as \"Liquicitizens\"– with the same musical taste, and artists from the same genre featured on the channel gradually formed a close group.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, Goudzwaard heard Maduk's first track, \"Avalon\", and contacted him to promote it on the Liquicity channel, with success. The cooperation between the two evolved into a team, and Liquicity Records was established as a label a few months later.\n\nIn January 2013, they founded a new company for Liquicity events and label matters. Through the combination of music promotion, record label and events, the duo's hobby grew out to a full-time job.\n\nIn March 2013, the first small Liquicity event was held in Ruigoord near Amsterdam. Attracting liquid fans from across Europe, the sold-out event was a success. Several more events took place in Amsterdam and Antwerp, and in January 2015, Liquicity expanded to London. The first full-day Liquicity Festival was held on 26 July 2015 in Diemen forest near Amsterdam. According to \"Het Parool\" in 2016, video footage from the Liquicity Festival was viewed 185 million times on YouTube. Winterfestivals were held in 2015 (Amsterdam), 2016 (Amsterdam and London) and in 2017 (Amsterdam), other Liquicity events in Cologne, Bratislava and Prague. The Liquicity Festival 2017 in Noord-Scharwoude is the first to last a whole weekend.\n\nMost of the musicians promoted by Liquicity are British, Belgian or Dutch, the majority of remainder being other Europeans.\n"}
{"id": "42571391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42571391", "title": "List of assassinations in Asia", "text": "List of assassinations in Asia\n\nThis is a list of assassinations which took place on the continent of Asia.\n\nFor the purposes of this article, an assassination is defined as the deliberate, premeditated murder of a prominent figure, often for religious or political reasons.\n"}
{"id": "28341469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341469", "title": "List of concerts at the National Stadium, Cardiff Arms Park", "text": "List of concerts at the National Stadium, Cardiff Arms Park\n\nConcerts were held at the National Stadium, Cardiff Arms Park, Cardiff, Wales, between 1987 and 1996 and included U2, Bon Jovi, Michael Jackson and The Rolling Stones. The last concert at the stadium was performed by Tina Turner on 14 July 1996. In 1997 the National Stadium was demolished to make way for the Millennium Stadium. \n\n"}
{"id": "2175929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175929", "title": "Live at The Gaslight 1962", "text": "Live at The Gaslight 1962\n\nLive at The Gaslight 1962 is a live album including ten songs from early Bob Dylan performances on October 15th, 1962 at The Gaslight Cafe in New York City's Greenwich Village. Released in 2005 by Columbia Records, it was originally distributed through an exclusive 18-month deal with Starbucks, after which it was released to the general retail market.\n\n\"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" was recorded early in Dylan's career, when he was still virtually unknown outside Greenwich Village. Thanks to the cooperation of various club owners, and the management skills of Dave Van Ronk's wife, Terri Thal, Dylan was able to record a number of performances during that time on a reel-to-reel tape recorder patched into the house PA system. It is believed that \"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" was culled from tapes recorded with this arrangement. But in 2016, during a video interview promoting the release of Dylan's Live 1966 box, sound engineer Richard Alderson, who had built the Gaslight's sound system and would later handle the sound for Dylan's 1966 tour, claimed he was the one who recorded the Gaslight performances at the request of the Gaslight's owners during an after hours show.\n\nThese Gaslight recordings have circulated among Dylan collectors for many years. They made their first appearance on bootleg LPs no later than 1973, and have appeared, in various forms, on several bootleg LPs and CDs and on many Dylan fan CDR projects. The full set of recordings, including 17 tracks, is usually referred to by Dylan collectors as the \"Second Gaslight Tape\", but some refer to the recordings as a compilation of the \"Second\" and \"Third Gaslight Tape\", believing them to be compiled from two different sets at The Gaslight. The source recording is not continuous, and its exact provenance has not been firmly established. \nTwo tracks from these recordings were previously released on official Dylan albums: \"No More Auction Block\" appeared on \"The Bootleg Series Volumes 1–3 (Rare & Unreleased) 1961–1991\" in 1991 and \"Handsome Molly\" appeared on the Japanese release \"\". A third track, \"The Cuckoo (Is a Pretty Bird)\", was included on a promotional CD distributed in U.S. retail markets in association with the official release of \"Chronicles, Vol. 1\".\n\nThe Gaslight recordings had been warmly received by critics and collectors alike ever since Greil Marcus wrote about them in the late 1960s. When this CD was officially released, the critical consensus remained positive, with \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s David Browne giving it an A- grade. \"Although [Dylan] was too young to pull off the burnout elegy 'Moonshiner,'\" wrote Browne, \"\"Gaslight\" is a spellbinding reminder that Dylan was never a typical folkie (or typical anything, for that matter).\"\n\nDuring an 18-month deal whereby Starbucks had exclusive rights to sell the album, HMV Canada pulled all Bob Dylan products off their shelves in protest. Similar joint ventures in the past also brought protest from HMV, affecting sales of The Rolling Stones and Alanis Morissette. HMV began stocking their shelves with Dylan's albums (albeit sparingly) in December 2005 in order to capitalize on the Christmas season. HMV fully restored Dylan's discography to their shelves in the spring of 2006. Afterwards, in order to appease frustrated HMV customers, Columbia offered the \"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" CD as a free giveaway with any Bob Dylan purchase at HMV stores.\n\n\"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" captures early performances of three different Dylan compositions: \"A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall\" (often referred to as \"Hard Rain\"), \"Don't Think Twice, It's All Right\", and \"John Brown\". Both \"Hard Rain\" and \"Don't Think Twice, It's All Right\" would eventually appear on Dylan's second album, \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\". \"John Brown\" would later be published and issued on \"Broadside Ballads, Vol. 1\" in February 1963, but it would not be released on any of Dylan's subsequent studio albums (the song only re-appeared as a live performance on Dylan's 1995 \"MTV Unplugged\" album.)\n\nThe remaining songs on \"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" are considered traditional folk songs; essays on a number of ballads performed by Dylan during his October residency at the Gaslight Cafe can be found in an anthology published in 2004 entitled \"The Rose & the Briar: Death, Love and Liberty in the American Ballad\".\n\n\"Rocks and Gravel\" is Dylan's own adaptation of Brownie McGhee's \"Solid Road\" and Leroy Carr's \"Alabama Woman\", an arrangement that fuses both songs into one. It was originally slated to appear on Dylan's second album (and later appeared on test pressings made for a preliminary version of the LP), but when Dylan reconfigured \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\", he omitted \"Rocks And Gravel\" from the final album sequence.\n\n\"The Cuckoo\" was originally recorded in the 1920s by Western North Carolina banjo musician Clarence Ashley. According to Thomas Goldsmith of \"The Raleigh News & Observer\", \"The Cuckoo\" is reportedly descended from an old folk ballad; it's an interior monologue where the singer \"relates his desires—to gamble, to win, to regain love's affection.\"\n\nDescribed by critic Dave Marsh as \"the most widespread folk song in the English language\", \"Barbara Allen\" dates as far back as the 17th century, when Samuel Pepys wrote about the song in a diary entry dated January 2, 1665. Similar but different versions of the ballad have been traced to English and Scottish folk traditions, and when \"Barbara Allen\" was brought to North America by early European settlers, no particular version of \"Barbara Allen\" was dominant or considered definitive. Over the years, countless variations of \"Barbara Allen\" have been found throughout the United States, with roughly 100 variations in Virginia alone, but the version Dylan sings on \"Live at The Gaslight 1962\" is one rooted in the English folk tradition.\n\nIn the story of \"Barbara Allen\", the title character rejects a suitor (his name varies in different versions of the songs, ranging from Sweet William to John Graeme). On his death bed, he calls Barbara Allen to his side, swearing his love for her. However, in some versions of \"Barbara Allen\" (particularly older variations), he discovers Barbara Allen's complaint that he once neglected her in a local tavern. When she sees him on his death bed, she offers a cold observation, \"Young man, I think you're dying.\"\n\nThe story then takes a strange twist: when Barbara Allen walks home, she hears the church bells tolling for her true love. She then dies, mysteriously, and the two are buried in an old churchyard, where a love knot then comes to twine, made from a rose growing out of her lover's heart and a brier from Barbara Allen's.\n\nTowards the end of his essay on \"Barbara Allen\", Dave Marsh focuses on the outcome of the song, the intertwined rose and briar emerging from the graves of the spurned lover, and Barbara Allen's rejection of her true love. \"What’s amazing is our ability to ignore the lesson that 'Barbara Allen' has to teach,\" writes Marsh, \"which is the peril of denying the complicated mysteries that throb within our hardened hearts and the equal peril of horsing around instead of acknowledging our love for one another. This is not a lesson you can squeeze onto a tombstone, or, for that matter, our current conception of a curriculum, but it is one to carry through this life.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6514702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6514702", "title": "Lonelygirl15", "text": "Lonelygirl15\n\nlonelygirl15 is a web series that ran from June 16, 2006 to August 1, 2008. Initially pretending to be an authentic YouTube video diary or vlog, the show gained wide media attention when it was outed as fictional in September 2006.\n\nLaunched in the early days of YouTube, just 16 months after the video platform went online, \"lonelygirl15\" focuses on the life of a teenage girl named Bree – played by the then 19-year-old actress Jessica Rose – whose YouTube username is the eponymous \"lonelygirl15\". After the fictional status of the show was revealed in September 2006, it gradually evolved into a multi-character series including both character videoblogs and action sequences, with a complex story universe involving \"trait positive girls\" who are sought by an evil organization called \"The Order\".\n\nThe three creators of \"lonelygirl15\" were Mesh Flinders, a screenwriter and filmmaker from Marin County, California, Miles Beckett, a surgical residency dropout turned filmmaker, and Greg Goodfried, a former attorney with Mitchell, Silberberg and Knupp, LLP.\n\nThe series was developed under the working title \"The Children of Anchor Cove\". New videos appeared, eventually at the rate of four to five clips a week, first on YouTube and \"lg15.com\", and later on MySpace. As of July 2008, the series had more than 110 million combined views.\n\n\"lonelygirl15\" has generated a number of spin-off shows. Its first, the British-based \"KateModern\", ran from July 2007 through June 2008 on Bebo, and took place in the same fictional universe.\n\nAlong with Amanda Goodfried, an attorney who worked with Creative Arts Agency (CAA), the creators of \"lonelygirl15\" created LG15 Studios to produce original interactive content online. LG15 Studios became EQAL in April 2008, with receipt of $5 million in venture capital to expand their offerings.\n\nThe \"lonelygirl15\" finale took place on August 1, 2008, and included a teaser for EQAL's next spinoff, , which ran through December 2008.\n\nSince 2009, EQAL has aired two more spinoff series which are produced by contest winners, including \"LG15: The Last\", which started airing in January 2009, and \"LG15: Outbreak\", which began in January 2010.\n\nOn June 16, 2016, the tenth anniversary of the first video on the account, a new video on the account with Jessica Lee Rose returning as Bree Avery was uploaded, with a message that the series was restarting. This revival appears to have been aborted, as no further videos (which were posted on Danielbeast's channel) have appeared since late 2016.\n\n\nBefore the vlog was revealed as fake, the title character dealt with mundane teenage problems such as being grounded; \"lonelygirl15\" posted video replies to, and dropped the names of popular YouTubers. To further the initial illusion that Bree was a real girl, a MySpace page was set up for her and she seemingly began corresponding with many of her fans.\n\nLater the show moved to a bizarre narrative that portrayed her dealings with secret occult practices within her family, and included the mysterious disappearance of her parents after she refused to attend a \"secret\" ceremony prescribed by the leaders of the family's cult.\n\nAt first discussion regarding why they thought \"lonelygirl15\" might be a fake went on in her video comments. In early August 2006, a fan began a discussion at the previously stagnant www.lonelygirl15.com message boards and raised an investigation into who or what was behind \"lonelygirl15\". Soon the message board became full of discussion about even the tiniest details in each of her videos, everything from the quality of the lighting to the flora seen in her outdoor videos. Fans used the forum to collect, organize and share their findings, and pointed to small inconsistencies within the videos as evidence that the story might not be genuine, wondering if Bree's posts were part of a teaser campaign for a television show or an upcoming movie (similar to the viral marketing used to promote \"The Blair Witch Project\" or \"Cloverfield\"). Others thought that the blog might be part of an alternate reality game.\n\"Los Angeles Times\" reporter Richard Rushfield was the first to provide proof of a hoax, when he wrote of Shaina Wedmedyk, Chris Patterson, and an anonymous blogger law student, who set up a sting on MySpace to reveal that the Creative Artists Agency was behind the videos. Eventually it was revealed that 16-year-old \"Bree\" was played by 19-year-old actress Jessica Rose. Media sources seized upon the story, covering both the search process and the eventual \"outing\" as a fictional series.\n\n\"New York Times\" reporter Virginia Heffernan expanded on the series of revelations on September 12 by publishing an article which confirmed Jessica Rose's identity, and revealed the identities of her \"co-conspirators\", Ramesh Flinders, a screenwriter and filmmaker from Marin County, California, and Miles Beckett, a doctor-turned-filmmaker. Software engineer Grant Steinfeld was also involved in this project, as a photographer. Amanda Solomon Goodfried assisted in their efforts to hide their identities as well as posed as \"Bree\"'s online alter-ego. Goodfried's father-in-law, Kenneth Goodfried, handled various legal matters. The personnel involved worked under a non-disclosure agreement, according to Grant Steinfeld. Steinfeld has verified most of this information to the \"Times\", and provided photographs he took of Rose on set as proof. Also on September 12, the three main creators gave an interview to the \"Los Angeles Times\" revealing the third major partner as Greg Goodfried.\n\nAfter the fictional nature of \"lonelygirl15\" was revealed, the storyline continued to develop via new videos posted to both YouTube and Revver. However, after YouTube partnered with Myspace, videos stopped being posted on \"lonelygirl15's\" Revver account, and only became viewable via YouTube and MyspaceTV.\n\nJessica Rose participated in a United Nations campaign in 2006, to fight poverty through an online anti-poverty video. Rose portrayed the \"lonelygirl15\" character as she sat by herself in her bedroom talking to the camera. The subject matter in the video focused on poverty relief, which broke from the regular subject matter of the show. The video was posted on an alternate account, separate from the main channel.\n\nOn November 20, 2006, lonelygirl15.com announced that the spin-off OpAphid was the official alternate reality game of \"lonelygirl15\". OpAphid began in late September with what many speculated was a well-produced fan effort, and this announcement merged its characters OpAphid, Tachyon, and 10033/Brother, into the series storyline and continuity. In early February 2007, it was revealed that Glenn Rubenstein was the original puppetmaster behind the OpAphid alternate reality game and also the creator of its characters, OpAphid, Tachyon, and Brother. Due to internal issues between the Creators and Glenn, OpAphid was no longer the official ARG.\n\nA 2006 episode of \"\" was based on the \"lonelygirl15\" phenomenon. The episode \"\" featured a blogger named weepingwillow17, played by Michelle Trachtenberg. Willow and her boyfriend were kidnapped by Men in Black who demanded her fans donate money to a website to save their lives. The investigators did not know if Willow was real or fake. Various other video bloggers were also seen decrying weepingwillow as a fake, just like many did on YouTube. The site on the episode was named \"YouLenz\".\n\nThe \"lonelygirl15\" blog won Biggest Web Hit Award on VH1's Big in '06 Awards.\n\nIn the \"Best Series\" category of the inaugural YouTube Video awards in March 2007, the \"lonelygirl15\" series finished fourth. The New York Times attributed Lonelygirl's finish to the YouTube community's ill will towards the series.\n\nOn August 3, 2007, Season One of \"lonelygirl15\" celebrated its finale with an exclusive on MySpaceTV known as \"12 in 12\" where 12 videos were uploaded over the course of 12 hours from 8 am PST to 7 pm PST, culminating in the highest one-day viewership ever for the series. A \"summary\" video from the first season was offered as a part of the event, and it logged in over a million views on its own.\n\n\n\"lonelygirl15\" was the first Internet series to introduce product integration when the episode \"Truckstop Reunion\" featured the characters eating and displaying Hershey's Icebreaker's Sours Gum.\n\nIn another example of a product integration first, \"lonelygirl15\" landed on the front page of \"Variety\" for the integration of a character from Neutrogena in the storyline over the period of more than two months. Dr. Spencer Gilman became such a popular character that Neutrogena made him \"Employee of the Month\" and gave him his own e-mail account on the company's corporate website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19001380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19001380", "title": "Lucy Lightfoot", "text": "Lucy Lightfoot\n\nLucy Lightfoot is the name of a fictional girl who supposedly disappeared mysteriously from the Isle of Wight in 1831. The whole incident was made up by the vicar of St. Olaves in the 1960s, which he subsequently admitted.\n\nLucy was born at a farm near Bowcombe. She was last seen around 10:30 on the morning of 13 June 1831. There was a near total eclipse of the sun that day, lasting about half an hour. A violent thunder storm also struck the island, causing flooding and crop damage. After the storm had abated, her horse was found tied to the gate at St. Olave's Church in Gatcombe. Lucy was nowhere to be found. Her parents offered a large award for her return, but moved away after two years searching turned up nothing.\n\nAlso of note is the detail that a steel misericord attached to a wooden effigy of Edward Estur was found shattered after her disappearance. A valuable chrysoberyl set in lodestone on the hilt was found to be missing.\n\nThe most prominent explanations involved a possible time slip. Supposedly research by the Rev Samuel Trelawney in 1865 unearthed a manuscript by Phillip de Mezières, chancellor of Peter I, listing the names of the English knights recruited by Peter I of Cyprus in 1363. One Sir Edward Estur was listed as being accompanied by a girl with the same name as Lucy, from Carisbrooke Castle.\n\nHowever, it was discovered that the whole incident was made up by the vicar of St. Olaves in the 1960s, which he subsequently admitted.\n\nThe book \"The Grass Beyond the Door\" by Cicely Veighey is based on the legend.\n\n\"A Tapestry of Time: Or Effigy of Love\" by Cecily Gould is also based on the legend.\n\n\"For The Love Of Lucy\" by Andrew J. Müller, published in IN FRONT Magazine in March 1999.\n\nA song by Spherical Objects titled \"Lucy\" was inspired by the legend. It appeared in the 1979 album \"Elliptical Optimism\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13502116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13502116", "title": "Mad War", "text": "Mad War\n\nThe Mad War (), also known as the War of the Public Weal, was a late Medieval conflict between a coalition of feudal lords and the French monarchy. It occurred during the regency of Anne of Beaujeu in the period after the death of Louis XI and before the majority of Charles VIII. The war began in 1485 and ended in 1488.\n\nThe principal lords involved were Louis II of Orléans, the cousin of the king (and future Louis XII of France); Francis II of Brittany; René II, Duke of Lorraine; Alain d'Albret; Jean de Châlon, Prince of Orange; and Charles, Count of Angoulême. Other leading lords supported the revolt, including Philippe de Commines and Odet d’Aydie, count of Commines and governor of Guyenne.\n\nAs a revolt against French royal authority it was supported by the foreign enemies of the King of France: England, Spain and Austria. Its principal outcome was the absorption of Brittany into the French kingdom.\n\nThe derogatory expression \"Mad War\" to designate this struggle of major feudal lords against central royal power was coined by Paul Emile in his \"Histoire des faicts, gestes et conquestes des roys de France\", published in 1581.\n\nThere is some dispute about the extent to which the events can be defined as a single war. It followed a long succession of conflicts between royalty and the great lords of the kingdom in the second half of the 15th century, subsequent to the formation of the League of the Public Weal. As part of these power struggles, in 1484-1485, Louis II of Orléans, supported by Francis II of Brittany and a certain number of lords, attempted to depose the regent, Anne de Beaujeu. Mostly by a mixture of diplomacy and shows of force, Anne succeeded in breaking the revolt without a major battle. On 2 November 1485, the Peace of Bourges suspended the hostilities.\n\nAccording to some historians, this ended the first phase of the \"Mad War.\" The second phase of the conflict, from June 1486 to November 1488, is sometimes called the \"War of Brittany\". Other commentators, mainly Breton nationalists, distinguish this second phase from the first, making it into a Franco-Breton war, or even a Breton war of independence, sometimes by connecting it to the earlier Breton War of Succession.\n\nAt the beginning of the reign of Charles VIII, Louis II of Orléans tried to seize the regency, but was rejected by the States General of Tours (15 January to 11 March 1484). In April, Louis of Orléans left for Brittany to join Duke Francis II. He also sent a request to the pope to annul his marriage, so that he would be free to marry Anne of Brittany, Francis' heir. On 23 November he signed a treaty which envisaged his marriage with Anne. Returning to the royal court, Louis of Orléans tried to take the king into his custody, but Anne de Beaujeu prevented him by force. She stopped some lords of the royal guard, and placed the Duke of Orléans under house arrest at Gien.\n\nHaving escaped from Gien on 17 January 1485, Louis tried to invest Paris, but failed. He managed to escape on 3 February to Alençon, and made amende honorable on 12 March. Royal troops placed around Évreux prevented him from joining Brittany, and he was locked up in Orléans. At the same time, the roused Breton nobility was brought back to order by the royal troops.\n\nOn 30 August, Louis of Orléans launched a proclamation against the regency. The royal army went to Orléans, but Louis escaped to Beaugency, from where he was dislodged by the young Louis II de La Trémoille in September. On 9 August, Francis II of Brittany also agreed to a truce. The truce was agreed for one year, and is known as the \"Peace of Bourges\", signed on 2 November 1485.\n\nWith the end of the truce, the rebellion again erupted. Already in June 1486, Maximilian I of Austria had invaded the north of France, but then retreated; in November, the rebel François de Dunois seized the castle of Parthenay. On 11 January 1487, Louis of Orléans escaped from the castle of Blois and, pursued by royal archers, took refuge again in Brittany. The royal army left from Tours at the beginning of February and began its offensive in the southwest. At Bordeaux on 7 March, Odet d’Aydie, the pro-rebel governor of Guyenne, was deposed and replaced by Pierre de Beaujeu. As the royal army suppressed the rebels in Guyenne, Count Charles d'Angoulême surrendered on 19 March 1487. The royal army set out from Bordeaux on the 15th, to take Parthenay on the 30th, Dunois managing to join Louis of Orléans in Nantes. The royal army then proceeded towards Brittany. With the Treaty of Chateaubriant, most of the Breton nobility came to an accommodation with the king. Royal forces agreed that the Duke would not be threatened by the army, which would leave Brittany as soon as the two rebels (Orléans and Dunois) were captured.\n\nMeanwhile, in the north, the Marshal de Esquerdes successfully pushed back Maximilian I of Austria, who shortly will be elected King of the Romans prior to becoming Holy Roman Emperor. In the south, the Lord de Candale beat Alain d'Albret, a leading rebel, at the Battle of Nontron. d'Albret had intended to join the rebels in the North, but was forced to give up hostages. In Brittany, the allies of the royal party directed by the Viscount de Rohan held the north of the duchy, and took Ploërmel.\n\nIn April 1487, Duke Francis II's attempt to mobilize Breton military forces (nobility and urban militia) failed due to widespread resentment of the corruption of his government. At the same time, the royal army advanced into Brittany. It was accommodated favorably in Châteaubriant, Vitré, Ancenis and Clisson. It besieged Nantes, but Cornish allies of Brittany, helped by foreign mercenaries, broke the siege. At the same time, Norman corsairs blockaded the Breton coast to stop further pro-Breton forces arriving from Britain and elsewhere.\n\nOn 20 January 1488, the Dukes of Orléans and Brittany were both declared rebels at the Parlement of Paris. They and their associates were no longer regarded as vassals, but rather as subjects, and thus guilty of lèse-majesté. In the spring, the Duke of Orléans renewed the struggle for his ally, taking Vannes, Auray and Ploërmel, and forcing the Viscount of Rohan to capitulate.\n\nOn 24 April 1488, a judgment of confiscation was declared against all the goods of Louis of Orléans. Meanwhile, Alain d'Albret had obtained a subsidy from the court of Spain, and thereupon joined the Duke of Brittany with 5000 men. Maximilian I of Austria sent 1500 men to him, and the English leader Lord Scales successfully landed with additional reinforcements. Despite this concentration of forces the Breton alliance was still outnumbered. It was further weakened because Maximilian I was diverted by a rebellion in Flanders, which was being supported by the Marshal de Esquerdes. The various lords supporting the Duke of Brittany were also in dispute with each other for the hand of Anne of Brittany: Louis of Orléans, Alain d'Albret and Maximilian I all being candidates.\n\nThe French royal general Louis II de la Trémoille gathered his forces on the border of the duchy, preparing to attack. On 12 July, royal forces captured Fougères and then Dinan. On 28 July 1488, the main Breton and French armies met at the Battle of Saint-Aubin-du-Cormier. The Breton forces, led by Marshal de Rieux, were decisively beaten by the French. The defeat put an end to the war. The Duke of Orléans was captured and Duke Francis II was forced to accept a punitive treaty.\n\nOn 20 August 1488, the Treaty of Sablé, also known as the \"Treaty of le Verger\" or \"Treaty of the Orchard\", was signed between Francis II of Brittany and King Charles VIII of France. Francis acknowledged himself as a vassal of the king, promised to remove foreign troops from duchy and to no longer summon such troops, and to pledge the territories conquered by France to remain under their control. In turn, Charles removed his forces from Brittany except in the town garrisons of the territories pledged by Francis. The most interesting stipulation of the pact was that it required the agreement of the French king to any marriage of the daughters of Francis II. Amnesty was granted to d’Aydie, Dunois, and the majority of the combatants. Louis of Orléans was imprisoned in a fortress, but when Charles VIII reached his majority three years later and assumed the regency, he pardoned Louis.\n\nFrancis II wanted his daughter Anne to marry Maximilian I of Austria as a means to (hopefully) ensure the sovereignty of Brittany. Francis II died on 9 September 1488, and Anne was enthroned as duchess in January of the following year. Francis' loyal supporters facilitated the union with Maximilian for Anne in a marriage by proxy held 19 December 1490. Unfortunately, this violated the Treaty of Sablé as the king of France did not consent to this marriage, and it also placed the rule of Brittany in the hands of an enemy of France. As a result, France resumed its armed conflict with Brittany. The spring of 1491 brought new successes by the French general La Trémoille, and Charles VIII of France came to lay siege to Rennes. Maximilian failed to come to his bride's assistance, and Rennes fell. Anne became engaged to Charles and traveled to Langeais to be married. Although Austria made diplomatic protests, Anne was wed to Charles VIII on 6 December 1491. The marriage was subsequently validated by Pope Innocent VIII on 15 February 1492.\n"}
{"id": "3775954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3775954", "title": "Messe Düsseldorf", "text": "Messe Düsseldorf\n\nDüsseldorf Messe is a trade fair ground and organizer, based in Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. With a workforce of 1,459 employees worldwide (2006) and a total exhibition space of 306,000 m (of which 262,700 m is indoors) in Düsseldorf, the company is one of the largest in the industry. More than 40 annual fairs are staged at the premises in Düsseldorf, including 23 leading events in their respective sectors.\n\nBased on Düsseldorf's long history of trade fairs, the Trade Fair Organisation (Messe) was founded in 1947 as Nordwestdeutsche Ausstellungsgesellschaft mbH (NOWEA), and is now Messe Düsseldorf GmbH (German form of Ltd.). In 1971, the company moved to the newly built exhibition centre in Stockum, next to the Düsseldorf Airport. In 1993, it hosted the finals of the Davis Cup in one its halls.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12157865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12157865", "title": "Michael Paine", "text": "Michael Paine\n\nMichael Ralph Paine (June 25, 1928 – March 1, 2018) was an engineer. He became notable after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, because he was an acquaintance of the President's assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. His wife, Ruth Hyde Paine, housed Lee's estranged wife, Marina Oswald, in her home for several months before the assassination until the day after it.\n\nPaine was born in New York, New York. His father was Lyman Paine, an architect and activist. His mother was Ruth Forbes Young, financial backer of International Peace Academy and daughter of Elise Cabot Forbes, a scion of the Cabot family. He had one sibling: Cameron Paine.\n\nPaine graduated from high school in New York in 1947. He attended Harvard University for two years in 1947-1949 and Swarthmore College for a year, but did not graduate.\n\nAfter serving in the U.S. Army, Paine worked a few months for Griswold Manufacturing Co. After that, Paine worked at Bartol Research Foundation in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania for about a year. He then worked for his mother's third husband Arthur M. Young, making helicopter models in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1958, Paine became employed at Bell Helicopter through Young, his stepfather and designer of the first commercial helicopter, Bell 47.\n\nIn 1957, he married Ruth Avery Hyde in Pennsylvania. They had two children: Lynn (b. 1959) and Christopher (b. 1961). In 1959, they relocated to 2525 West Fifth Street in Irving, Texas, a suburb of Dallas. when Paine began work at a Bell Helicopter facility in Fort Worth. One issue is whether the Minox camera found in the Paine garage belonged to Lee Oswald or to Michael Paine. Another issue is what activities Lee Oswald and Michael Paine had in common, given Michael Paine's statement to Frontline (Who Was Lee Harvey Oswald?, PBS) that he and Lee Oswald shared unspecified interests.\n\nIn late September 1962, Paine and his wife Ruth separated, Ruth asked him to have his personal belongings moved out of the house by the time she got back home from traveling around the United States that summer. According to Michael, it was not he, but Ruth who pushed to legally end their marriage. As their divorce made its way through the legal system until it ended in 1970, the Paines continued to see films at the theater together, and their Madrigal singing as a couple continued. Michael kept his own apartment in Arington, Texas, while Ruth remained with Lynn and Christopher in the Irving home. In the end, the divorce was amicable, and Michael kept a very favorable view of Ruth.\n\nOn February 22, 1963, Ruth Paine attended a party held at the home of her fellow madrigal singer, Everett Glover, who knew Ruth spoke Russian and thought she would be interested in meeting a couple he knew, Marina and Lee Harvey Oswald. Lee had defected to Russia after serving in the Marine Corps, and Marina was Russian-born. They had recently returned to the United States with their young daughter, June.\n\nMichael met the Oswalds for the first time on April 2, 1963. when he picked up Lee, Marina, and their baby daughter, June at their apartment at 214 West Neely Street in Dallas so that they could join with him in the small meet and greet dinner Mrs. Paine had cooked for them. From the start, Michael took an immediate dislike toward Lee when he picked the couple and June up. Oswald's demeaning words directed at his wife, Marina, whom Michael told author Thomas Mallon, was \"having to take these whiplashes meekly and quietly and obediently,\" deeply offended him. Over the next seven months, Paine was upset by the fact that he refused to let Marina learn to read, speak, or write in English.\n\nLee Harvey Oswald rented a room in Dallas but stored some of his possessions in Paine's garage, including a supposed rifle wrapped in a blanket which Paine thought to be camping equipment. Paine's wife helped Oswald get a job at the Texas School Book Depository. Paine's testimony would later become a central feature of the Warren Commission's investigation of the assassination, particularly in regard to the presence of the purported assassination rifle in the garage of his family home.\n\nPaine and his wife were portrayed in Oliver Stone's \"JFK\" as characters called \"Bill and Janet Williams,\" presumably to avoid legal action.\n\nIn 1964, Paine testified that he was a member of the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nThe Santa Rosa Press Democrat reported that Paine died March 1, 2018, in Sebastopol, California.\n"}
{"id": "28288883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28288883", "title": "Newsweek Selecciones", "text": "Newsweek Selecciones\n\nNewsweek Selecciones was an Argentine weekly magazine, a local edition of \"Newsweek\". It used material from \"Newsweek En Español\" and \"Newsweek Argentina\" (part of the articles are written by the Argentine bureau located in Buenos Aires, and part is a reproduction of international material). Its editorial director was Alex Milberg.\n\nIt started in 2010, and belonged to Sergio Szpolski's media group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "497068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497068", "title": "Ostalgie", "text": "Ostalgie\n\nOstalgie () is a German term referring to nostalgia for aspects of life in East Germany. It is a portmanteau of the German words \"Nostalgie\" (nostalgia) and \"Ost\" (east). Its anglicised equivalent, ostalgia (rhyming with \"nostalgia\"), is also sometimes used.\n\nThe term (along with the phrase \"Soviet chic\") is also occasionally used to refer to nostalgia for life under the Communist system in other former Eastern Bloc countries, such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland. As with nostalgia for the Soviet Union, there are various motivations, whether ideology, nationalism, wistfulness for a lost sense of social status or stability, or even aesthetics or irony.\n\nOstalgie is a complex term that should not be described as a simple emotion of nostalgia. As Ostalgie relates back to the history of the Cold War, it is better to examine this term in the context of history and current influence in Western society; in doing so, the meaning of this term becomes clearer.\n\nThe most noticeable differences would be the ruling political parties of East and West Germany. Policy differences of the two parties established the strategies for the process of \"restoration\" following World War II. In the West, a capitalist economic system was adopted under the Marshall Plan. On the other hand, the authority of East Germany was under massive pressure from the Soviet Union and adopted a more radical economic system that placed more intensive requirements on the individual. Divergence between the two states first appears in their difference in economic system choices. The structure of the two German societies and their people were inevitably distinct from each other under the broad background of the Cold War. Although both East and West Germans share the same language and history, their identities were changed in the dimension of having completely different social lives. Differences between West Germany and East Germany are evident before reunification.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the German reunification that followed a year later, many of the symbols of the \"German Democratic Republic\" were swept away. Almost all \"GDR\" brands (\"DDR\" in German) of products disappeared from the stores and were replaced by Western products. However, after some time many Eastern Germans began to miss more or less aspects of their former lives (like culture or the known brand marks). \"Ostalgie\" particularly refers to the nostalgia for aspects of regular daily life and culture in the former GDR, which disappeared after reunification.\n\nThe term was coined by the East German cabaret artist in 1992.\n\nMany businesses in Germany cater to those who feel \"Ostalgie\" and have begun providing them with artifacts that remind them of life under the GDR; artifacts that imitate the old ones. Available again are brands of East German food, old state television programmes on video tape and DVD, and the previously widespread Wartburg and Trabant cars. Life in the GDR has also been the subject of several films, including Leander Haußmann's \"Sonnenallee\" (1999), Wolfgang Becker's internationally successful \"Good Bye, Lenin!\" (2003), Carsten Fiebeler's \"Kleinruppin forever\" (2004).\n\nThose seeking the preservation of East German culture banded together to save the \"Eastern Crosswalk Man\" (Ost-Ampelmännchen), an illuminated depiction of a man wearing a \"perky\", \"cheerful\" and potentially \"petit bourgeois\" hat (inspired by a summer photo of Erich Honecker in a straw hat) in crosswalk lights. Many German cities in and near the former East German border, including Berlin, Lübeck and Erfurt, still retain the use of the \"Ampelmännchen\" at all or some pedestrian crossings due to its cultural relevance, and many souvenirs sold in East Germany and in Berlin make use of the icon.\n\nAnother example of commercially memorialising East Germany would be the musealization of Halle-Neustadt. Halle-Neustadt, a city constructed by the East German Government, is now a kind of living museum for East German memory. But more than the meaning of living museum, tourism in Halle-Neustadt is evidence of commercialisation of Ostalgie. In this case, musealization of Ostalgie is somehow connected with a consumerist attitude. Ostalgie in this sense is not a realistic or pragmatic term. It is the artifacts, rather than the social life of East Germany that plays the main role in this commercialization. If the social life of East Germany is more complex than artifacts and symbols, it would be fair to say that musealization of Ostalgie in Halle-Neustadt creates a stereotype of East German life. That is to say, reflection of Ostalgie in Halle-Neustadt should not be considered as an accurate representation of East Germany.\n\nThere is no doubt Ostalgie exists in current Germany through commodities and products. Influence of Ostalgie in market is realistic.\n\nIndeed, ostalgie could be inspired by the longing of the \"Ossis\" (German for \"Easterners\", a term for former GDR citizens) for the social system and the sense of community of the GDR. When the renowned West-German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" asked former GDR-inhabitants whether the GDR \"had more good sides than bad sides\", 57% of them answered yes. To the statement of the interviewing journalist that \"GDR inhabitants did not have the freedom to travel wherever they wanted\", Germans replied that \"present-day low-wage workers do not have that freedom either\".\n\nHowever, there are also arguments for the actual meaning of this term. The question is if Ostalgie is the expression of nostalgia of former residents of East Germany, or a fantasy created by West Germans? Some might argue that popularity of East German brands and products is a phenomenon resulting from former East German's yearning for getting lost things back. In this discourse, former East Germans are thought be kidding themselves by believing a sort of Utopia in the past. And on the other hand from Boyer's perspective, Ostalgie is more like a fantasy created by West Germans; a Westalgie. He argues against the common accepted idea of Ostalgie through analysis of multiple dimensions of public culture and discussion of German history.\n\nBoyer's Argument of Ostalgie as \"West-algie\"\n\nFirst, he argues that the idea of Nostalgia is not new; it is developed as a symptom reflecting disorder of body for centuries. But what is interesting for Boyer about the idea of nostalgia is that nostalgia is found somehow connected with the notion of nation. That is to say, nostalgia is somehow related with nationalism. In this context, miss for the homeland generates love for everything in home country and then transformed to exclusion against foreign stuffs with desire of performing patriotism. But as it has been emphasized by Boyer, the usage of nostalgia is not as serious as it used to be. While in past time, nostalgia is realistic and strengthened by limitation of technology, people's feeling for this word now is relatively lighter due to advancement of society. After demonstration of heaviness of the word nostalgia, Boyer goes on further to conclude that nostalgia in some levels is justified as the physical state of nationalism. And relates this point to discussion of Ostalgie, it is just theoretically impossible to think Ostalgie to be East German's nostalgia. Since nostalgia is connected with the combination of nationalism and departure from nation, it would be very hard to think the cheerful event of reunification become a source of it.\n\nSecond, Boyer discusses nostalgia in context of Second World War, which is a huge historic event in Germany and creates the predicament of \"Vergangenheitsbelastung\" (the past). According to Boyer, the imposed division between West Germany and East Germany is not merely a geopolitical fact that punishes German war crime. More than that, German people also use this geopolitical fact as a deferred confrontation against ethnology during Holocaust. History of Third Reich, which makes German postwar generation shameful and anxious about the past, is clearly a historical burden. And to overcome this burden, one strategy that both Germanys adopt is to claim the other side of Germany is more \"German\", that the other side is fascism and should be more responsible for war crime during World War II. Boyer goes on further to explain that identification of each state is actually dependent on each other. West Germany needs the existence of East Germany to reflect its own contextual identity, and so does East Germany. The situation has changed since the reunification; the previous \"two German States\" exist no more, and now East Germany is no longer a valid imagined enemy. But the strategy of constructing a \"West German-ness\" has not totally vanished. Reunification has not changed the social structure of West Germany significantly, most institutions in West Germany are preserved. So, the strategy of treating East Germany as a perceived enemy could also be preserved after reunification. That is to say, Ostalgie as an idea created in this context could also possibly be used by the West Germans to construct an imaginary image of East Germany, even though East Germany no longer exists in the modern world geography.\n\nThird, Boyer examines current West-East relationship, and what he finds is that West German opinion is dominant in discourse of the West-East relationship and refuses to treat input and opinions from former East German members seriously. Boyer admits that it is possible for former East Germans to fantasize some aspects of the GDR but, he also argues, none of them would fantasize actually returning to the historic GDR. Boyer argues the current construction of Ostalgie has created a \"no-place\" of East Germany. East Germany in this discourse is only \"realistic\" from a West German perspective. The East German perspective (despite its individual history, policy, structure, way of life, and outlook), is somehow invalid and thus unable to challenge the imagined \"western\" image of East Germany. Since the differences between West and East are realistic and profound at both the social and political level, the construction of a \"no-place\" East Germany is just a utopia (or indeed dystopia) of West German creation.\n\nThere are also authors, such as Enns Anthony, who suggest that understanding the Ostalgie phenomenon should go \"beyond the simple question of whose representation of the GDR is more valid or authentic\". Moreover, what matters is the observation of the \"actual\" situation of the former residents of the GDR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41079000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41079000", "title": "Partnership for Transparency Fund", "text": "Partnership for Transparency Fund\n\nPartnership for Transparency, officially named Partnership for Transparency Fund is a not-for-profit anti-corruption organization that tackles small scale corruption around the world. Founded in 2000, the organization is headquartered in Washington, DC, with affiliates in the Philippines, India, South Africa and Germany.\n\nThe organization provides technical assistance and mobilizes resources to aid partner civil society organizations (CSOs) that engage citizens in actions to improve governance, increase transparency and reduce corruption in developing countries. The stated mission is to advance innovative citizen-led approaches to improve governance, increase transparency, promote the rule of law and reduce corruption in developing and emerging countries. In one part of India, an investment of under $300,000 over three years saw corruption reduced in the public distribution system, helping over 48,000 families.\n\nAn independent review by the Department for International Development found Partnership for Transparency (PTF) to be effective and encouraged donors to support them. Since its inception, PTF has supported 162 civil society organizations in 66 countries completing over 260 projects. PTF's model relies on the support of volunteer professionals who provide pro-bono assistance. \n\n"}
{"id": "40623366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40623366", "title": "Pavel Rychagov", "text": "Pavel Rychagov\n\nPavel Vasilievich Rychagov (2 January 1911 – 28 October 1941) was the Commander of the Soviet Air Forces (VVS) for a brief time from 28 August 1940 to 14 April 1941. He was removed from that position shortly before Operation Barbarossa and the outbreak of the Great Patriotic War, and was executed in a purge of the Red Army several months later.\n\nRychagov was born on 2 January 1911 in the village of Nizhnie Likhobory, which forms part of present-day Moscow. In 1928, he joined the Red Army, trained at the Leningrad Military College of the Air Forces, from which he graduated in 1930. In 1931, he enrolled for further training at the 2nd Military College for Pilots.\n\nFor five years, Rychagov was an ordinary fighter pilot, building up skills before becoming commander of an aviation squadron in Kiev Military District. In 1936, he was awarded the Order of Lenin for exemplary service; he was also amongst the first Soviet volunteers to fight in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe most intense part of Rychagov's career as a fighter pilot came in the Spanish Civil War. On 28 October 1936, Rychagov, leading a group of 15 Soviet pilots flying 25 Polikarpov I-15 aircraft, landed in Cartagena, Spain. A few days later, a further group of 10 pilots and 15 aircraft arrived in Bilbao. Rychagov's fighter group saw their first action on 4 November. On that day, they shot down two Junkers Ju 52s and two Fiat CR.32s over Madrid, while no losses were reported among the Soviet pilots. During the next two days, Rychagov's pilots claimed 12 more victories, at the cost of two aircraft lost.\n\nHowever, on 16 November, Rychagov was shot down over Madrid by Fiat CR.32s, and four days later the number of combat-ready Soviet aircraft in the area had dropped to 15. Seven had been lost in combat, two had been forced to land, and one was undergoing repair. Rychagov, however, stayed on to fight into the spring of 1937. In December 1936 and January 1937 two more shipments of 30 Polikarpovs I-15s arrived in Spain, allowing the formation of a complete combat unit of four I-15 squadrons. By the end of the war, Rychagov's fighter group claimed 40 victories overall.\n\nHe returned to the Soviet Union in 1937 for a short time, where he was promoted to Brigadier General at the young age of 26. In 1938, he led another group of volunteers to China, where he participated in several skirmishes with the Japanese.\n\nIn December 1939, he was promoted to the rank of Major General; he was also appointed Commander of the 9th Air Force Army. He directed operations in the Winter War against Finland.\n\nIn May 1940, a third Order of the Red Banner was presented to Rychagov. He was promoted to Lieutenant General several months later.\n\nBy 1940, Rychagov was a member of the top administration of the Air Force. He was appointed Head of Red Army Air Force Administration and became a member of the Red Army Chief Military Council, a predecessor of the Stavka. Eventually, he was appointed Commander of the VVS on 28 August 1940, succeeding Yakov Smushkevich.\n\nShortly before Operation Barbarossa, Rychagov was removed from the position of Commander of the VVS as part of the purge of the Red Army in 1941, to be replaced by Pavel Zhigarev. This was the result of a Politburo inquiry into the high accident rate in the Air Force. Furthermore, in May 1941, a German Junkers Ju 52 landed in Moscow, undetected by the ADF beforehand, leading to massive arrests among the Air Force leadership. In the case of Rychagov specifically, he was punished for referring to Soviet planes as \"flying coffins\".\n\nOn 24 June, two days after the German invasion began, Rychagov was arrested. Some other high-profile arrests made by the NKVD in 1941 included:\n\n\nRychagov was tortured and executed on 28 October 1941 along with his wife. Others who were executed that day included 20 other Soviet officers (including Rychagov's predecessors in the VVS, Yakov Smushkevich and Aleksandr Loktionov), Rychagov was exonerated posthumously in 1954.\n"}
{"id": "7380622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7380622", "title": "Picrous Day", "text": "Picrous Day\n\nPicrous Day was a festival celebrated by the tin miners of Cornwall on the 1st Thursday before Christmas. This is believed to be the feast of the discovery of tin by a man named Picrous whom miners in the East of Cornwall celebrated as the founder of their industry instead of St Piran. \n\nRobert Hunt in his \"Popular Romances of the West of England\" states:\n\nThe second Thursday before Christmas-day is a festival observed by the tinners of the district of Blackmore, and known as Picrous day. It is not at present marked by any distinctive ceremonies, but it is the occasion of a supper and much merry-making. The owner of the tin-stream contributes a shilling a man towards it. This is said to be the feast of the discovery of tin by a man named Picrous. My first impression was that the day took its name from the circumstance of a pie forming the pièce de résistance of the supper; but this explanation is not allowed by tinners, nor sanctioned by the usages of the feast. What truth there may be in the tradition of the first tinner, Picrous, it is now too late to discover, but the notion is worth recording. It has occurred to me whether, from some similarity between the names (not a close one, I admit it), the honours of Picrous may not have been transferred to St Piran, who is generally said to be the patron saint of tinners. St Piran is not known in Blackmore, and his festival is on the 5th of March. The tinners also have a festival to commemorate the discovery of smelting\n\nPicrous day is believed to have been especially popular in Luxulyan where celebrations were held at the Rising Sun Inn.\n\n\nA picrous day tale of Piskies\n\n \n"}
{"id": "32823062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32823062", "title": "Pipes (advertisement)", "text": "Pipes (advertisement)\n\nPipes is a television advertisement in the United Kingdom for Tango Orange, which first aired in October 2004.\n\nThe advertisement was in the \"You Know When You've Been Tango'd\" campaign for the drink, which was revived in 2002. The thirty second clip shows a man wrapped in a carpet filled with oranges, balanced on top of five concrete pipes, with both the carpet and pipes attached to a string, which at the other end was attached to a sheet of grass. \n\nA goat is shown eating the grass, to a point where the grass sheet moves, thus the string is broken and the carpet and pipes roll down a hill, until they hit a tree, with the man still inside, followed by the five concrete pipes quickly running into the carpet. The man crawls out the carpet as the \"commentator\" describes the event as \"the hit of the whole fruit\".\n\nOn 11 November 2004, Remembrance Day, the Advertising Standards Authority Watchdog banned the advertisement. The watchdog took the rare step of acting before a formal decision was reached on whether the advert, for Tango, had breached industry rules. The watchdog, which received four complaints, feared children could copy the commercial and harm themselves. This meant that considered re runs of the adverts in the beginning of 2005 were cancelled.\n\nDespite the immediate ban, the Broadcast Advertising Clearance Centre said it \"strongly disagreed\" that it could lead to accidents. The disagreement came less than a month after the ASA took control for regulating broadcast advertising where previously it covered non-broadcast only. The BACC said it was \"surreal\" by its nature because it featured a man wrapped in a carpet filled with oranges.\nThey went on to state \n\nBritvic, which makes Tango, apologised for any offence caused by the advert and promised not to show it again. In July 2013, Womborse ranked the advert at #5 in their list \"Banned: 7 of the Most Controversial Ads\", whilst in February 2014, \"The Mirror\" included it in their unordered list of \"The 10 Most Controversial Commercials\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50537236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50537236", "title": "Real Madrid fan club massacres", "text": "Real Madrid fan club massacres\n\nOn 13 May 2016, a group of militants armed with AK-47s attacked a cafe in Balad, Iraq, frequented by supporters of the Spanish football club Real Madrid. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claimed responsibility for the attack. At least 16 people were killed and at least 30 were wounded.\n\nOn 29 May 2016, ISIL gunmen and a suicide bomber attacked another Real Madrid fan club in the same area, killing at least 12 people and injuring around 15. They were attacked while watching the 2016 UEFA Champions League Final.\n\nDuring the first attack on May 13, around 50 fans of Real Madrid were gathered in a café in Balad, to discuss their arrangements for their favorite team's upcoming football match, when six armed men stormed into the café and started to shoot at the young men. Reports claim that grenades were also used to attack those gathered to watch the match. Several attackers reportedly fled the cafe and then detonated themselves, one was captured but then burned to death.\n\nAt least 14 people were killed outright and two more died of their wounds later on. More than 30 people were injured.\n\nSurvivors of the attack blamed the attack on May 13 on ISIL and its opposition to football.\n\nIn its claim of responsibility, ISIL said the attack had targeted Shia militiamen, making no mention of any connection to Real Madrid. Some believe that the claim stems from the extremist groups ideology against football, as they believe it is a product of western society.\n\nThe attack was condemned by soccer fans around the world. Javier Tebas Medrano the President of Spain's La Liga responded to the attack with the statement \"Terrorism has attacked football. We are with the victims and their families.\" The Real Madrid football club itself expressed \"great sadness\" and offered its \"regards and condolences\" to the families and friends of the victims. Real Madrid players wore black armbands for their away game against Deportivo de La Coruña, on 14 May 2016, as a mark of respect. The team also honoured the victims by observing a moment of silence before their match.\n\nOn May 28, 2016 family and friends of victims gathered at the cafe to watch the game, surrounded by armed police, frisking those who attempted to enter the cafe.\n\nAfter the second attack, Florentino Pérez, the club president, dedicated Real Madrid's win to the fans that were killed, and other Iraqi club fans, including those killed by ISIS. Alaa al-Hashemi, the Iraqi ambassador to Spain, thanked the club and invited the president to visit Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "1481067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1481067", "title": "Repatriation", "text": "Repatriation\n\nRepatriation is the process of returning an asset, an item of symbolic value or a personvoluntarily or forciblyto its owner or their place of origin or citizenship. The term may refer to non-human entities, such as converting a foreign currency into the currency of one's own country, as well as to the process of returning military personnel to their place of origin following a war. It also applies to diplomatic envoys, international officials as well as expatriates and migrants in time of international crisis. For refugees, asylum seekers and illegal migrants, repatriation can mean either voluntary return or deportation.\n\nVoluntary return is the return of eligible persons, such as refugees, to their country of origin or citizenship on the basis of freely expressed willingness to such return. Voluntary return, unlike expulsion and deportation, which are actions of sovereign states, is defined as a personal right under specific conditions described in various international instruments, such as the OAU Convention, along with customary international law.\n\nSome countries offer financial support to refugees and immigrants in order to facilitate the process of starting a new life in their country of origin. Examples of 21st century voluntary return include the Danish government, which began in 2009, offering £12,000 each to immigrants to return, Switzerland offering around 6,500 Francs, targeted for business startups upon returning home, as well Ireland. Germany in 2016 allocated €150 million over three years for migrants willing to return, and the Swedish government began offering £3,500 each. 544 Nigerians returned home from Switzerland in 2013. This financial support may also be considered as residency buyouts.\n\nTwo countries may have a re-admission agreement, which establishes procedures, on a reciprocal basis, for one state to return irregular non-nationals to their country of origin or a country through which they have transited. Illegal immigrants are frequently repatriated as a matter of government policy. Repatriation measures of voluntary return, with financial assistance, as well as measures of deportation are used in many countries.\n\nAs repatriation can be voluntary or forced the term is also used as a euphemism for deportation. Involuntary or forced repatriation is the return of refugees, prisoners of war, or civil detainees to their country of origin under circumstances that leave no other viable alternatives. According to contemporary international law, prisoners of war, civil detainees, or refugees refusing repatriation, particularly if motivated by fears of political persecution in their own country, should be protected from refoulement and given, if possible, temporary or permanent asylum. The forced return of people to countries where they would face persecution is more specifically known as refoulement, which is against international law.\n\nWhile repatriation necessarily brings an individual to his or her territory of origin or citizenship, a return potentially includes bringing the person back to the point of departure. This could be to a third country, including a country of transit, which is a country the person has traveled through to get to the country of destination. A return could also be within the territorial boundaries of a country, as in the case of returning internally displaced persons and demobilized combatants.\n\nRepatriation is linked with health care due to the costs and resources associated with providing medical treatment to travelers and immigrants pursuing citizenship. For example, if someone is in the United States with a visa and becomes ill, the insurance that the visa holder has in his or her native country may not apply in the United States, especially if it is a country with universal health care coverage. This scenario forces hospitals to choose one of three options: \nDetermining which option is the most ethical is often very challenging for hospital administrators.\n\nIn some cases, a traveler's personal insurance company is required to repatriate the patient for medical treatment. The method of repatriation could be via regular flight, by ground, or by air ambulance. Medical repatriation is different from the act of medical evacuation.\n\nIn the 20th century, following all European wars, several repatriation commissions were created to supervise the return of war refugees, displaced persons, and prisoners of war to their country of origin. Repatriation hospitals were established in some countries to care for the ongoing medical and health requirements of returned military personnel. In the Soviet Union, the refugees seen as traitors for surrendering were often killed or sent to Siberian concentration camps.\n\nIssues surrounding repatriation have been some of the most heatedly debated political topics of the 20th and 21st centuries. Many forced back to the Soviet Union by Allied forces in World War II still hold this forced migration against the United States of America and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe term \"repatriation\" was often used by Communist governments to describe the large-scale state-sponsored ethnic cleansing actions and expulsion of national groups. Poles born in territories that were annexed by the Soviet Union, although deported to the State of Poland, were settled in the annexed former German territories (referred to in Polish as the Regained Territories). In the process they were told that they had returned to their Motherland.\n\nThe Korean War marked the first time that the United States or any nation began returning the bodies of battlefield casualties as soon as possible. During Operation Glory, which followed the Korean Armistice Agreement, thousands of remains were exchanged by both sides. The practice of immediately recovering casualties continued for United States during the Vietnam War.\n\nRepatriation laws give non-citizen foreigners who are part of the titular majority group the opportunity to immigrate and receive citizenship. Repatriation of their titular diaspora is practiced by most ethnic nation states. Repatriation laws have been created in many countries to enable diasporas to immigrate (\"return\") to their \"kin-state\". This is sometimes known as the exercise of the right of return. Repatriation laws give members of the diaspora the right to immigrate to their kin-state and they serve to maintain close ties between the state and its diaspora and gives preferential treatment to diaspora immigrants.\n\nMost countries in central and eastern Europe as well as Armenia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, the Philippines, Spain, South Korea, Taiwan, and Turkey have longstanding repatriation legislation. China, Japan, Norway and Serbia also have repatriation laws for their diaspora populations. The number of countries with repatriation laws has mushroomed since the end of Soviet communism and most independent nations that were once part of the communist domain in Europe have since legislated repatriation laws. Many other countries such as Jordan and Sweden have (or have had) generous immigration policies with regard to the nation's diaspora without having formally enacted repatriation laws. Such states can be described as practicing \"common law repatriation\".\n\nIn comparison, one of the central tenets of the Rastafari movement is the desirability of the repatriation of black people from the Americas and elsewhere back to Africa. While Ethiopia specifically has land available in Shashamane to encourage this project, black people who are citizens of countries outside Africa do not have the right of return to Africa, although as individuals they are free to try to emigrate.\n\nRepatriation is often the \"forgotten\" phase of the expatriation cycle; the emphasis for support is mostly on the actual period abroad. However, many repatriates report experiencing difficulties on return: one is no longer special, practical problems arise, new knowledge gained is no longer useful, etc. These difficulties are highly influenced by a number of factors including self-management, spouse's adjustment, time spent abroad and skill utilisation. What is crucial is that every individual perceives these factors in a different way. Reintegration is a process of re-inclusion or re-incorporation of a person into a group or a process, and may contribute to overcoming repatriation.\n\nDirect managers and HR staff often notice the difficulties a repatriate experiences, but they are not always able to act on it. Budget shortcomings and time constraints are frequently cited as reasons why it fails to be an agenda priority. Solutions for repatriation difficulties do not have to be expensive and can lead to great benefits for the company. Basic support can consist, for example, of good communication in advance, during and after the international assignment, or a mentor program to assist the repatriate. The expatriate and his/her family should feel understood by his or her company. Support can increase job satisfaction, thereby protecting the investment made by the company.\n\nReturn of human remains to their nation of origin. In the United States, Native Americans' human remains are uncovered and removed from their burial sites in the construction/land development process or as part of archaeological excavations. The Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) of 1990 established the process whereby federally recognized Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations can request that federal agencies and institutions receiving federal funds return culturally affiliated human remains. The NAGPRA also sets forth provisions that allow for the disposition of Native American human remains found on federal lands to the affiliated Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization. NAGPRA does not apply to the Smithsonian Institution, which is covered under the repatriation provisions of the National Museum of the American Indian Act of 1989. In previous eras it was common for British colonial authorities to collect heads and other body parts of indigenous peoples such as Indigenous Australians and Māori for display in British museums. The repatriation of these body parts is currently ongoing. For an example of a successful body part repatriation, see Yagan. Another example can be seen through the dedicated work of the Karanga Aotearoa Repatriation Programme, established in partnership between Māori and the New Zealand government in 2003. This programme is administered by the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa (Te Papa), and since 2003 has repatriated over 350 Māori and Moriori ancestral remains to Aotearoa New Zealand. Article 12 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples affirms that indigenous peoples have the right to repatriate their human remains. The declaration was passed in September 2007 with the support of 143 countries. The four opposing countries—Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United States—subsequently endorsed the declaration.\n\nCultural or art repatriation is the return of cultural objects or works of art to their country of origin (usually referring to ancient art), or (for looted material) its former owners (or their heirs).\n\nEconomic repatriation refers to economic measures taken by a country to reduce foreign capital investment.\n\nRepatriation of currency is when foreign currency is converted back to the currency of the home country. An example would be an American converting British pounds back to U.S. dollars. Repatriation also refers to the payment of a dividend by a foreign corporation to a U.S. corporation. This happens often where the foreign corporation is considered a \"controlled foreign corporation\" (CFC), which means that more than 50% of the foreign corporation is owned by U.S. shareholders. Generally, foreign direct investment in CFC's are not taxed until a dividend is paid to the controlling U.S. parent company, and is thus repatriated. The foreign direct investment income of the CFC is taxed only by the country where it is incorporated until repatriation. At that time, income is subject to the (typically higher) U.S. tax rate minus the Foreign Tax Credits. (FN: See IRC 951-965) There are currently hundreds of billions of dollars of Foreign direct investment in CFC's because of the disincentive to repatriate those earnings. (See Bureau of Economic Analysis, National Economic Accounts, Integrated Macroeconomic Accounts for the United States, available at the Bureau of Economic Analysis.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32130033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32130033", "title": "Seriously McDonalds", "text": "Seriously McDonalds\n\n\"Seriously McDonalds\" is the name under which a viral photograph was spread in June 2011. The photograph shows a sign, which is in fact a hoax, claiming that McDonald's has implemented a new policy charging African-Americans more, as \"an insurance measure\". Despite having existed for some time, the picture was spread around the Internet, especially on Twitter, in June 2011, by people who were offended or amused by the photograph. McDonald's acted quickly to deny the legitimacy of the sign, but it continued to trend on Twitter under the hashtag \"#SeriouslyMcDonalds\" and \"#seriouslymcdonalds\" for a few days. The company's response to the hoax has received praise from journalists and public relations professionals.\n\nThe photograph shows a sign stuck on what is apparently the window of a McDonald's restaurant with tape. The sign reads:\n\nThe sign has a footer which says \"McDonald's Corporation\" and features the McDonald's logo and a helpline number. However, the helpline number actually connects to the KFC Customer Satisfaction Hotline. The picture is a hoax; McDonald's has never had any such policy.\n\nThe picture had existed for three years on 4chan, and McDonald's had been aware of the image for around a year. The McDonald's social media team were not concerned about the photograph, assigning it a low \"impact level\", as it made claims that the team thought were too outrageous to be believed.\n\nLauri Apple, writing for gossip website Gawker, reported, attributing the claim to \"various sources on the Twitter\", that the image was a meme that first surfaced on 4chan some time before it went viral; writers for the \"Daily Mail\" claimed that it had been in use on 4chan since 2008. Apple also linked to a post showing the picture on McServed.com, a blog which mocks both McDonald's and its customers, dated 17 June 2010.\n\nIt surfaced in June 2011, having been picked up by influential Twitter users, and went viral. The photograph was spread around the Internet by email and on social networking sites, especially Twitter, under the title \"Seriously McDonalds\". The title is meant as an expression of incredulity at the restaurant chain. The picture was passed on both by those who were amused and those who were offended, with abuse aimed at McDonald's sometimes accompanying the image. Kate Linendoll, technology expert for \"The Early Show\", hypothesised that the picture spread from the blog to Twitter, and that Twitter's \"immediacy\" allowed the image to go viral \"so fast it got out of control\".\n\nMcDonald's responded to the hoax on 11 June by tweeting \"That pic is a senseless & ignorant hoax. McD's values ALL our customers. Diversity runs deep in our culture on both sides of the counter.\" Further, McDonald's director of social media, Rick Wion, released a statement saying\nThe sign is obviously a hoax. As a company and a brand we have a long and proud history of diversity inclusion across our system on both sides of the counter ... From our management crew, franchisees – across the board, we’re very proud of our record of diversity. This is unfortunately an example of how rumors can outspeed the truth ... Over the last 48 hours we’ve been tweeting and striving to clarify that this is a hoax.\nDespite McDonald's denial, the speed at which the picture spread was increased. McDonald's reiterated their earlier message, tweeting \"That Seriously McDonalds picture is a hoax\". The photograph became the most highly trending topic over the weekend of the 11–12 June, being spread under the hashtags \"#SeriouslyMcDonalds\" and \"#seriouslymcdonalds\". The tag was reportedly used some 20 times a second over the course of the weekend. The picture was eventually removed from Twitpic, and the speed at which it was spreading declined.\n\nLittle damage was done by the hoax, which, in addition to McDonald's response, was revealed through Twitter users' own investigations. The image is no longer well known or remembered, due, according to public relations professional Ann Marie van den Hurk, to McDonald's effective response to the image.\n\nLinendoll praised the response from McDonald's, saying that\nIf you're a big corporation and something viral ... happens against you, you have to formulate a plan and respond quickly ... In this case, McDonald's handled it correctly; they used the medium Twitter they were accused on. Time is of the essence. We're not going to the press in the morning. We're going to the press in real time, when it comes to social networking. You have to respond and respond quickly. Well-handled.\nChristopher Barger of \"Forbes\" described McDonald's response as \"a textbook statement on how to respond to a rumor in 140 characters\", although he felt they could have personalised responses and used other social networks. Van den Hurk also presented the response from McDonald's as an example of how organisations can best deal with social media crises.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13448333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13448333", "title": "Siege of Germanicia", "text": "Siege of Germanicia\n\nThe Siege of Germanicia or Marash was led by Muslim forces of the Rashidun Caliphate during their campaigns in Anatolia in 638. The city surrendered without much bloodshed. This expedition is important because it marks the end of the military career of the legendary Arab Muslim general Khalid ibn Walid, who was dismissed from the army a few months after his return from the expedition.\n\nThe Muslims won a decisive victory at the Battle of Yarmouk fought in August 636, thus the attempt made by the Byzantine emperor Heraclius to roll back Roman Syria failed. Further, unable to send more imperial troops to Syria, Heraclius made yet another attempt to re-conquer Syria by the aid of his Christian Arab allies of Jazira. The army of the Christian Arabs laid siege to Emesa in mid-summer of 638. The Muslims avoided a battle in the open and instead opted for a defensive strategy which led to the Battle at Emesa. All the regiments from outposts in northern Syria were called to Emesa. The Christian Arab Army was forced to withdraw their siege when, by the orders of Caliph Umar, the Muslim army from Iraq attacked Jazira. At this point, the rear elements of the sieging army were attacked by a Mobile guard led by Khalid ibn Walid, which in effect left the Byzantine forces devastated. Caliph Umar then launched a full-scale invasion of Jazira which was completed without much resistance in just a few months. As soon as the western part of Jazira was occupied, Abu Ubaidah ibn al-Jarrah wrote to Umar and asked for Ayadh bin Ghanam, who was operating in western Jazira, to be put under his command so that he could use him in raids across the northern border. Umar agreed to this request, and Ayadh moved to Emesa with a part of the Muslim forces sent from Iraq to Jazira.\n\nIn the Autumn of 638, Abu Ubaidah launched several columns, including two commanded by Khalid ibn Walid and Ayadh, to raid Byzantine territory in Anatolia as far west as Tarsus. Khalid's objective was Germanicia (Arabic: Marash), the city which lies on a plain at the foot of the Taurus Mountains. The region is best known for its production of salep, a flour made from dried orchid tubers. In late 638, the Muslim army laid the siege to the city which contained a Byzantine garrison. Expecting no help from their Emperor, the Byzantine garrison surrendered the city on the usual terms of Jizya offered by the Rashidun army, which included terms stating that the garrison and the populace be spared. As for material wealth, the Muslims could take all they wished.\n\nIt is narrated that Khalid returned to Qinnasrin laden with spoils of war that had seldom been seen before. Many Muslim historians commented that \"Just the spoils of Marash were sufficient to make the soldiers of this expedition rich for life\". Khalid ibn Walid, who was at the peak of his military career was unfortunately dismissed by Caliph Umar because of his immense popularity which was a result of his very successful military career. It was a general view that Umar had dismissed Khalid because he was angry with Khalid, though it was clarified later by Caliph Umar that:\nKhalid was urged by many of his companions to retaliate against Umar for this. Khalid did not, although he was powerful enough to launch a coup d'état against Umar and in effect seize the power of the Rashidun Empire. He instead chose to stay away from politics and died four years later in 642 in Emesa. Caliph Umar was said to have felt embarrassed for his conduct against Khalid and was reported to have said at his death that 'he would have appointed Khalid as his successor if he was still alive.'\n\n"}
{"id": "4689838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4689838", "title": "Slings &amp; Arrows", "text": "Slings &amp; Arrows\n\nSlings & Arrows is a Canadian TV series set at the fictional New Burbage Festival, a Shakespearean festival similar to the real-world Stratford Festival. The program stars Paul Gross, Stephen Ouimette and Martha Burns.\n\nThe darkly comic series first aired on Canada's Movie Central and The Movie Network channels in 2003, and received acclaim in the United States when it was shown on the Sundance Channel two years later. Three seasons of six episodes each were filmed in total, with the final season airing in Canada in the summer of 2006 and in the United States in early 2007.\n\n\"Slings & Arrows\" was created and written by former \"The Kids in the Hall\" member Mark McKinney, playwright and actress Susan Coyne, and comedian Bob Martin. All three appear in the series as well. The entire series was directed by Peter Wellington.\n\nRhombus Media decided to make a television series after the pattern of their 2005 documentary \"Five Days in September: The Rebirth of an Orchestra\", which chronicled the backstage activities of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra. They hired Bob Martin, Susan Coyne, and Mark McKinney to create the series. The fictional New Burbage Festival in \"Slings & Arrows\" is loosely based on the Stratford Shakespeare Festival with some events being an amalgamation of Bob Martin's experiences in the production of his Broadway musical \"The Drowsy Chaperone\" and The Second City.\n\nThe show's central characters are actor/director Geoffrey Tennant (Paul Gross), New Burbage artistic director Oliver Welles (Stephen Ouimette), and actress Ellen Fanshaw (Martha Burns), who seven years previously collaborated on a legendary production of \"Hamlet\". Midway through one of the performances, Geoffrey suffered a nervous breakdown, jumped into Ophelia's grave and then ran screaming from the stage. After that, he was committed to a psychiatric institution.\n\nWhen the series begins, Geoffrey is in Toronto, running a small company, \"Théâtre Sans Argent\" (French for \"Theatre Without Money\"), on the verge of being evicted. Oliver and Ellen have stayed at New Burbage, where Oliver has gradually been commercializing his productions and the festival. On the opening night of the New Burbage's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", Oliver sees Geoffrey on the news, chained to his theatre. Heavily drunk, Oliver calls Geoffrey from a payphone and they argue about the past. Oliver then passes out in the street and is run over and killed by a truck bearing the slogan \"Canada's Best Hams\".\n\nGeoffrey's blistering eulogy at Oliver's funeral about the state of the festival leads to him being asked to take over Oliver's job on a temporary basis. After clashing with an old rival, Darren Nichols (Don McKellar), Geoffrey is reluctantly forced to take over directing the festival's latest production of \"Hamlet\". Making this difficult are Jack Crew (Luke Kirby), the insecure American film star cast as Hamlet; Geoffrey's former lover Ellen, who is playing Gertrude and dating a much younger man; and Oliver, now haunting both Geoffrey and the festival as a ghost. Also in the play is apprentice actress Kate (Rachel McAdams), who finds herself falling for Jack.\n\nOn the business side of the festival, New Burbage manager Richard Smith-Jones (Mark McKinney) is seduced by one of his sponsors, American executive Holly Day (Jennifer Irwin) who wants to remake New Burbage into a shallow, commercialized \"Shakespeareville\".\n\nThe second season follows the New Burbage production of \"Macbeth\".\n\nRichard is desperate for money to keep the company going, and Geoffrey, frustrated over what he sees as a lack of commitment from his actors, suggests downsizing the company. A new actor, Henry Breedlove (Geraint Wyn Davies), arrives to star in a production of \"Macbeth\", which Geoffrey is reluctant to direct because of its supposed difficulty (though he doesn't believe in the curse of \"The Scottish Play\").\n\nRichard finds funding in the form of a government grant that comes with a catch—it may be used only for \"rebranding\". So, Richard hires an avant-garde advertising agency, Froghammer, to promote and rebrand the festival. Sanjay (Colm Feore), the head of Froghammer, launches a series of shock advertisements and manipulates Richard into accepting them.\n\nElsewhere at the festival, Darren has returned from an artistic rebirth in Germany to direct a version of \"Romeo and Juliet\" in which the actors don't touch or even look at each other, much to the chagrin of the couple playing the lead roles. The festival's administrator, Anna Conroy (Susan Coyne), copes with an influx of interns and begins a romance with playwright Lionel Train (Jonathan Crombie) who is doing a reading at the festival.\n\nEllen undergoes a tax audit, in preparation for which she is able to explain the \"business purpose\" of such theatrical necessities as lipstick and a push-up bra.\n\nMeanwhile, Geoffrey obsesses over directing \"Macbeth\", antagonizes his cast and crew, and starts seeing Oliver's ghost again, all of which make Ellen fear for his sanity.\n\nThe third season follows the New Burbage production of \"King Lear\".\n\nThe cast of \"Macbeth\" returns home after a successful run of the production on Broadway, where an old friend of Ellen's (Janet Bailey) tells her to think about moving beyond New Burbage. As Richard tries to cope with being a success, Anna must deal with a group of stranded musicians and Darren is back in town, this time to direct a new musical, \"East Hastings\".\n\nGeoffrey, meanwhile, has cast an aging theatre legend, Charles Kingman (William Hutt) as Lear, despite everyone's fears that the role will kill him. As rehearsals continue, Charles terrorizes Sophie (Sarah Polley), the actress playing Cordelia. Sophie is also involved in the rivalry between the young actors in \"Lear\" and the young actors in the musical, whose success soon overshadows the troubled Shakespeare production.\n\nAs things spiral out of control, Oliver returns to haunt and help, and Geoffrey seeks therapy from an unlikely source.\n\nIn its three seasons, \"Slings & Arrows\" was nominated for 50 awards across several categories, and won a total of 22 awards for acting, writing, direction, editing, and more.\n\n\"Slings & Arrows\" won a total of 13 Gemini Awards. It was nominated for the Gemini for Best Dramatic Series every season it aired, and won twice. It garnered at least two Gemini awards for acting in every season, winning three each in 2006 and 2007.\n\nIn addition to the Gemini Awards, \"Slings & Arrows\" swept Best Drama (One Hour) from the Writers Guild of Canada all three times it was nominated, and won Outstanding Television Series – Drama Awards from the Directors Guild of Canada in 2006 and 2007. The Writers Guild of Canada nominated three different episodes for Best Drama Series in 2004.\n\nOther awards included a Canadian Comedy Award in 2005 for Television – Pretty Funny Writing – Series, and a Satellite Award in 2006 for Best DVD Release of a TV Show.\n\nThe following table summarizes award wins by cast members:\n\nMany cast members—regulars as well as guests—were Gemini-nominated for their work on \"Slings & Arrows\" but did not win, including Jennifer Irwin, Sarah Polley, Chris Leavins, Don McKellar, and William Hutt.\n\n"}
{"id": "40950024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40950024", "title": "Tarvin in the English Civil War", "text": "Tarvin in the English Civil War\n\nDuring the first English Civil War, Tarvin, a village in Cheshire England was garrisoned by both sides and was attacked by both sides, because its proximity to Chester which was a major Royalist (Cavalier) port city, made it strategically important. Tarvin changed hands several times; initially it was garrisoned by Parliament and troops of both sides at different times were quartered in and around the village, which was not fortified. In September 1644 the Parliamentarians (Roundheads) fortified the village and garrisoned the place with sufficient troops to withstand a large attack and it remained in their hands until the end of the war.\n\nOn Sunday 12 November 1643, Royalists sallied out of Chester towards Tarvin — which was garrisoned by Parliament under the command of Captain Gerard — but the Royalists were intercepted at Stamford Bridge and prevented from crossing it. The two sides skirmished all the afternoon but then Parliamentary reinforcements from Cholmondeley arrived to assist Gerard and they drove the Royalists back, following them to Boughton, Cheshire and into Gorse Stacks on the outskirts of Chester, where they killed some of them. The Parliamentarians' only casualty was one man wounded.\n\nIn late January 1644, some Parliamentary forces billeted in and about Tarvin were taken by surprise in an attack by the Chester Royalists. Some were wounded, and others were taken prisoner but as the Royalists returned to Chester with their captives, they were overtaken by a company of Parliamentary dragoons. In the melee that followed a Royalist captain and some of his men were killed, while others were wounded. The dragoons freed the prisoners and took eight of their own, all of whom were sent to Nantwich.\n\nOn Sunday 18 August 1644, Colonel Marrow marched from Chester with a detachment of foot (infantry) and horse (cavalry) towards Northwich, and on the way they took cattle without paying for them. When Morrow's scouts approached Hartford Green, a party of soldiers from the garrison sallied out to chase them off, but the Parliamentary soldiers got too close to the main body. A skirmish ensued at Sandyway. The Royalists won the day taking fifteen prisoners, but Colonel Marrow was mortally wounded and died the next day in Chester. After the skirmish it seems that the Royalist detachment made for Tarvin, because two days later (Tuesday 20 August) a party of Parliamentarians from Nantwich with the assistance of Sir William Brereton's horse and reinforcements from Halton Castle attacked the Royalists quartered at Tarvin and for the fifteen prisoners they lost two days earlier taking between 200 and 300 horses, capturing 45 prisoners and killing 15, all for the loss of only one man.\n\nOn Friday 30 August 1644, all the Parliamentary garrison of Nantwich, except Major Croxton's and the Town's trained bands, marched to Middlewich where they encamped for the night. The next day they proceeded to Northwich and Great Budworth, and then to Tarvin, which they fortified with strong earth works and garrisoned it, declaring it to be a market town. They also garrisoned Huxley Hall and Oulton Hall near Little Budworth.\n\nThe fortifications and the garrison must have been stronger than those of other garrisons because Tarvin appears to have been the only garrison in Cheshire, except Nantwich, which was not abandoned on the reported approach of the King, in May 1645. \n\nOn 19 September 1645 large pieces of ordinance which were within the fortifications at Tarvin were moved to Chester to help to batter the city into submission. Within a few hours the artillery pieces had done their work making a breach four men wide in the city wall to the left of the Newgate. At eight that night the city was assaulted through the breach and captured.\n\nThe church at Tarvin shows signs of its part in the battles. There are cannonball and musket ball holes in the wall of St Andrews church tower next to the west door. It has been said that prisoners were shot against this wall, which explains some of the bullet holes. The church was also used as a refuge by soldiers and the tower was probably used as a lookout post.\n\n"}
{"id": "12800524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12800524", "title": "The Barricades", "text": "The Barricades\n\nThe Barricades () were a series of confrontations between the Republic of Latvia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in January 1991 which took place mainly in Riga. The events are named for the popular effort of building and protecting barricades from 13 January until about 27 January. Latvia, which had declared restoration of independence from the Soviet Union a year earlier, anticipated that Soviet Union might attempt to regain control over the country by force. After attacks by the Soviet OMON on Riga in early January, the government called on people to build barricades for protection of possible targets (mainly in the capital city of Riga and nearby Ulbroka, as well as Kuldīga and Liepāja). Six people were killed in further attacks, several were wounded in shootings or beaten by OMON. Most victims were shot during the Soviet attack on the Latvian Ministry of the Interior on January 20. One other person died in a building accident reinforcing the barricades. Casualties among Soviet loyalists are considered likely, but the exact number remains unknown. A total of 15,611 people have registered as having been participants of the Barricades, but other data suggests that more than 32,000 Latvians took part.\n\nDuring World War II Latvia had been occupied by USSR. In 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev introduced glasnost and perestroika policies, hoping to salvage the failing Soviet economy. The reforms also lessened restrictions on political freedom in the Soviet Union. This led to unintended consequences as problems within the Soviet Union and crimes of the Soviet regime, previously kept secret and denied by the government, were exposed, causing public dissatisfaction, further deepened by the war in Afghanistan and the Chernobyl disaster. Another unintended consequence of Glasnost for the Soviet central authorities was the long-suppressed nationalist sentiments that were released in the republics of the Soviet Union.\n\nMassive demonstrations against the Soviet regime began. In Latvia an independence movement started. The supporters of independence - the Popular Front of Latvia, the Latvian Green Party and the Latvian National Independence Movement - won elections to the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR, on 18 March 1990 and formed the Popular Front of Latvia faction, leaving the pro-Soviet Equal Rights faction in opposition.\n\nOn 4 May 1990, the Supreme Soviet, which afterwards became known as the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, declared the restoration of independence of Latvia and began secession from the Soviet Union. The USSR did not recognize these actions and considered them contrary to the Soviet federal and republican constitutions. Consequently, tension in relations between Latvia and the Soviet Union and between the independence movement and pro-Soviet forces, such as the International Front of the Working People of Latvia (Interfront) and the Communist Party of Latvia, along with its All-Latvian Public Rescue Committee, grew.\n\nThe pro-Soviet forces tried to provoke violence and seize power in Latvia. A series of bombings occurred in December 1990, Marshal of the Soviet Union Dmitry Yazov admitted that the military was responsible for the first four bombings, perpetrators of the other bombings remain unknown, the pro-Communist press of the time blamed Latvian nationalists.\n\nThe government of the Soviet Union and other pro-Soviet groups threatened that a state of emergency would be established which would grant unlimited authority in Latvia to President Gorbachev and military force would be used to \"implement order in the Baltic Republics\". At the time Soviet troops, OMON units and KGB forces were stationed in Latvia. On 23 December 1990 a large combat group of KGB was exposed in Jūrmala. It was rumored at the time that there would be a coup and a dictatorship would be established. Foreign minister of the Soviet Union Eduard Shevardnadze seemingly confirmed this when he resigned on 20 December 1990, stating that a dictatorship was coming.\n\nOn 11 December 1990, the Popular Front released an announcement stating that there was no need for a climate of fear and hysteria in what was dubbed hour X - the unlimited authority of the president - would come and every person should be ready to consider what they would do if that happened. The Popular Front also made suggestions regarding what should be done until the hour X and afterwards, if Soviet forces were successful. These plans called for acts to show support for independence and attract the attention of international society, joining volunteer guard units, reasoning with Russians in Latvia explaining to them, especially military officers, that the ideas of the Popular Front are similar to those of Russian democrats. It also called for effort to protect the economy and ensure information circulation should also be made.\n\nIn case of Soviet control being successfully established, this plan called for a campaign of civil disobedience - ignoring any orders and requests of the Soviet authorities, as well as any Soviet elections and referendums, undermining the Soviet economy by going on strike and by following the absurdly elaborate Soviet manufacturing instructions to the letter in order to paralyze production, helping the independence movement to continue its work illegally and helping its supporters to get involved in the work of the Soviet institutions. Finally, carefully documenting any crimes Soviet forces might commit during the state of emergency.\n\nOn 2 January 1991 the OMON seized the Preses Nams (), the national printing house of Latvia and attacked Criminal police officers who were documenting the event. The Supreme council held session in which it was reported that the manager of the Preses Nams was being held hostage, while other workers, although physically and verbally abused, were apparently allowed to leave the printing house. The Supreme council officially recognized the taking of the printing house as an illegal act on the part of the Communist Party of Latvia.\n\nThe Popular front organised protests at the Communist party building. The printing house was partly paralysed as it continued to print only pro-Soviet press.\nOn 4 January the OMON seized the telephone exchange in Vecmīlgrāvis, it is speculated that it was because the telephone lines the OMON were using were cut off. Thereafter, the OMON seized the Ministry of Internal Affairs but the phone wasn't cut off for fear that the OMON would attack the international telephone exchange. Contrary to OMON officer claims Boris Karlovich Pugo and Mikhail Gorbachev both claimed they were not informed of this attack. Meanwhile, the Soviet military was on the move - that same day an intelligence unit arrived in Riga.\n\nThen on 7 January, following the orders of Mikhail Gorbachev, Dmitriy Yazov sent commando units into several Republics of the Soviet Union including Latvia.\n\nOn 11 January, the Military Council of the Baltic Military District was held. It decided to arm Soviet officers and cadets with machine guns. Open movement of Soviet troops and armored vehicles were seen in the streets of Riga. Several meetings by both pro-independence and pro-Soviet movements were held on 10 January. Interfront held a meeting calling on the government of Latvia to resign. Some 50,000 people participated and tried to break into the Cabinet of Ministers building after being asked to do so by military personnel.\n\nOn 11 January, the Soviet military launched an attack on Latvia's neighbour, Lithuania.\n\nOn 12 January, the Popular Front announced nationwide demonstrations to be held on 13 January in support of Latvia's lawfully elected government and the guarding of strategic objectives. The Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR called on the Soviet government to withdraw its military forces from the Baltic States. Leaders of the Latvian government met with Gorbachev who gave assurances that force would not be used. That night the Popular Front, after learning that Soviet forces in Lithuania had attacked the Vilnius TV Tower and killed 13 civilians, called on people to gather for the defense of strategic objectives. Due to a united effort of the Baltic states to regain their independence in the previous years of the singing revolution, an attack on one of them was perceived as an attack on all of them.\n\nAt 4:45 on 13 January, an announcement from the Popular Front was broadcast by Latvian radio calling people to gather in Riga Cathedral square. At 12:00 noon the Supreme Council session on defense issues was held. At 14.00 the Popular Front's demonstration began, around 700,000 people had gathered, Soviet helicopters dropped leaflets with warnings over the crowd at this point. The Popular Front called on people to build barricades. The Supreme council held another session after the demonstration, the MPs were asked to stay at the Supreme council overnight. The evening session issued a call for Soviet soldiers asking them to disobey orders concerning the use of force against civilians. As night came, following orders from the government, agricultural and construction machines and trucks full of logs arrived in Riga to build barricades. Trucks, engineering vehicles and agricultural machinery were brought into the city to block streets.\nPeople had already been gathering during the day. Part of this crowd gathered in Riga Cathedral Square as the Popular Front had asked in its morning announcement. Others gathered after the midday demonstration. They included colleagues and students. Some were organised by their employers and alma maters. Many families arrived, including women, the elderly and children. By that time most were already morally prepared that something could happen. People had arrived from all over the country. Barricades were largely perceived as a form of nonviolent resistance, people being ready to form a human shield. However, many people did arm themselves, using whatever was available, ranging from pieces of metal to specially crafted shields and civil defence supplies. Some had also prepared Molotov cocktails, but these were confiscated to ensure fire safety. The Latvian militia was armed with sub-machine guns and handguns.\n\nThe Latvian government was later criticized for not providing weapons. These they had, as was evidenced after the OMON seized the Ministry of Interior and removed a considerable number of weapons (it was asserted that there were 200 firearms in the ministry)\n\nTrucks were loaded with construction and demolition waste, logs and other cargo. Large concrete blocks, walls, wire obstacles and other materials were also used. The building work begun on the evening of 13 January and took about three hours. The main objects of strategic interest were the Supreme Council buildings (Old town near St. James's Cathedral), the Council of Ministers (City center near the Nativity of Christ Cathedral), Latvian Television (on Zaķusala), Latvian Radio (Old town near Riga Cathedral), the International Telephone exchange offices (City center), Ulbroka radio and bridges. Barricades were also built in other parts of country, including in Liepāja and Kuldīga.\nCare was taken to record the events, not only for accounting purposes and personal keepsakes, but also to show the world what was happening. About 300 foreign journalists worked in Riga at the time. The Latvian government ensured that the foreign press was provided with constant updates.\n\nMany strategic objects were important mainly for the transfer of information. This would ensure that if the Soviets did launch an attack, the Latvian forces could hold these locations long enough to inform the rest of the world. The international telephone exchange was important to maintain connections with both foreign countries and other parts of the USSR. An often noted example is Lithuania. It was partly cut off from the rest of the world after the Soviet attack. Foreign calls to Lithuania were transferred through Riga. Latvian radio and television worked day and night to broadcast throughout the time of the barricades.\n\nRadio played an important part in life on the barricades. It was used to organize eating and sleeping arrangements, calling people together (e.g. students from the same university), for the various meetings. Artists were invited to entertain people. Foresters were asked to provide firewood for the bonfires that were widely used by the people manning the barricades. Food and drink was provided by a number of public institutions. Many well-wishers provided knit socks and gloves as well as refreshments. Places to sleep were often hard to find - schools were used where possible. Many people either slept at the barricades or went home. Some people experienced exacerbation of their health problems which was not helped by the winter climate, exhaustion and stress.\n\nFirst Aid points were set up with additional medical supplies and equipment, some were based on existing locations. Beds were installed in a number and had teams composed of doctors from local hospitals. Shifts were formed by daily routine - people who went to their job, studies or home were replaced by people who returned to the barricades after their daily duties. Most workers who had been on the barricades later received their usual salary regardless of if they had or had not been to work. Prime minister Ivars Godmanis regularly held meetings with commanders of individual barricades, the Popular Front also participated to discuss tactics. It was decided to enforce protection of the most important objectives by assigning militia to their defense. The supplies for the barricades were coordinated by the Popular Front. The individual barricades were organised by regions. Thus, people from Vidzeme were assigned to barricades overseen by the Vidzeme suburb chapter of the Popular Front. The pro-Soviet forces tried to infiltrate barricades for sabotage. Rumors were spread that attacks were planned.\n\nOn 14 January, the Soviet military demanded that Latvian laws be repealed. The OMON attacked Brasa and Vecmilgrāvis bridges. 17 cars were burned during the day. On the night of 15 January the OMON twice attacked the Riga branch of the Minsk Militia Academy. Later that day 10,000 people gathered for an Interfront meeting, where an All-Latvian Public Rescue Committee declared that it was taking over power in Latvia. This announcement was broadcast in the Soviet media.\n\nOn 16 January, the supreme council organised MPs to stay overnight at the supreme council building to ensure a quorum in case of need. At 4:45 pm, in another attack on Vecmilgrāvis bridge, a driver for the Latvian Ministry of Transport, Roberts Mūrnieks was killed - becoming the first fatality at the barricades. Two other people were also injured. At 6:30 pm the OMON attacked Brasa bridge, injuring one person. Another bombing took place at 8:45 pm.\n\nOn 17 January, the alarm was sounded at the Barricades, the strike committee of the Communist Party of Latvia declared that fascism was being reborn in Latvia. A delegation of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR visited Riga. Upon its return to Moscow, the delegation reported that Latvia was in favour of the establishment of unlimited authority of the USSR president.\n\nOn 18 January the Supreme Soviet decided to form a national self-defense committee. The Popular Front withdrew its call to protect the barricades. \n\nOn 19 January, the funeral of Roberts Mūrnieks turned into a demonstration. That night the OMON arrested and beat up five members of a volunteer guard unit.\n\nOn 20 January, about 100,000 people gathered in Moscow to show their support for the Baltic states, calling on Soviet officials to resign in connection with the events in Vilnius. That evening turned out to be the deadliest at the Barricades after the OMON and other unidentified combat groups attacked the Latvian Interior Ministry. Two policemen (Vladimirs Gomanovičs and Sergejs Konoņenko), a schoolboy (Edijs Riekstiņš), and a cameraman (a colleague of director Juris Podnieks, Andris Slapiņš) were killed. Another cameraman, Gvido Zvaigzne, died later of his injuries. Four Bauska policemen were injured, as were five participants of the barricades, a Hungarian journalist, and a Russian journalist. It was noted that the attackers also suffered casualties. After the battle, the OMON moved into the Latvian communist party building. By the 20 January, the government also urged the transfer of control of the barricades to government forces. This was seen by some as disaffection with the whole idea. This opinion was enforced when part of the barricades were demolished after the government took control of them.\n\nOn 21 January, the Supreme council called on youths to apply for a job in the Interior ministry system. Gorbunov left for Moscow to meet with Gorbachev to discuss the situation in Latvia. On 22 January, Pugo denied that he had ordered an attack on the interior ministry. Another person was killed on the barricades.\n\nOn 24 January, the Council of ministers established a public safety department to guard the barricades.\n\nOn 25 January, after the funeral of the 20 January victims, most defenders of the barricades went home.\n\nThe actual barricades remained on the streets of Riga for a long time; for example, those at the Supreme Council were removed only in the autumn of 1992. In March partially in response to January events and partially because of upcoming Soviet referendum on preservation of federation, which Latvia intended to boycott, a poll on independence was held with 3/4 of participants voting in favor of independence. Latvia faced further attacks of Pro-Soviet forces later in 1991 - on 23 May, when OMON launched attack on five Latvian border posts and during the Soviet coup attempt of 1991, when several strategic objectives guarded during the barricades were seized, with one civilian (driver Raimonds Salmiņš) killed by Soviet forces. The attempted coup prompted Latvian government, which originally had intended gradual secession from Soviet Union to declare full independence, which was recognized by Soviet Union on 6 September. The Soviet Union was dissolved in December 1991.\n\nMajor attacks were carried out by the OMON of Riga, however another combat unit was seen during the attack on the Ministry of Interior Affairs. It has been speculated that this unit was Alpha Group which had been seen in action during the attack on Vilnius. In an interview with film director Juris Podnieks, an OMON officer stated that originally it was planned to attack Riga, not Vilnius. At the last moment, a week before the attack on Vilnius, the plan was suddenly changed. He also claimed that the OMON of Rīga was so well prepared that there was no need for the Soviet military, which was present in Rīga at the time, to engage.\n\nThe OMON did not act on their own - after the Preses Nams was seized the OMON claimed that high officials of the Soviet government - Boris Pugo and Mikhail Gorbachev knew about the attack, however both denied their involvement and the Supreme Council blamed the Communist Party of Latvia. In December before the events, the Popular Front, in its instructions for X hour, asserted that a coup was planned by the \"Soyuz\" group of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR MPs.\n\nDimitry Yuzhkov admitted that the Soviet military was responsible for the first bombings, however no one claimed responsibility for the rest of the bombings, which the communist press blamed on Latvian nationalists. On the basis of these and subsequent events, several OMON officers were tried, although many of them were not convicted, the Communist Party of Latvia, Interfront, the All-Latvian Public Rescue Committee and a few related organizations were banned by parliament for the attempted coup d'état, and two leaders of CPL and ALPRC were tried for treason.\n\nViktor Alksnis transplanted a large number of the Baltic OMON forces to the Transnistrian territory of Moldova in support of the separatist regime there, where Vladimir Antyufeyev, commander of the Riga OMON forces, took on the role of Minister of Security initially under an assumed name (Vladimir Shevstov), a post he held until 2012. Antyufeyev appeared in Ukraine as the \"deputy prime minister\" of the Russian-backed Donetsk People's Republic in July 2014. It is unlikely at this point that these members of OMON will be brought to trial.\n\nIn 1995, a support fund for 'Participants of the Barricades of 1991' was created. The fund is for the families of victims. It also gathers information on participants. In 2001 the fund created the 'Museum of the Barricades of 1991' to make historical materials it had gathered available to the public.\n\n20 January is the commemoration day of Participants of the Barricades, on this day as well as on 18 November, 4 May and 21 August. Participants of the barricades are awarded the Commemorative Medal for Participants of the Barricades of 1991. This award was established by the fund of 'Participants of the Barricades of 1991' in 1996. Since 1999 it is awarded by the state for those who had shown courage and unselfishness during the Barricades. The Barricades are also commemorated by numerous monuments in Latvia.\n\n"}
{"id": "7823378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823378", "title": "Vasateatern", "text": "Vasateatern\n\nVasateatern or \"Vasan\" (in English: \"The Vasa Theatre\") is a private theatre in Stockholm, Sweden. It is located at Vasagatan 19–21 in central Stockholm.\n\nIt was built in 1886 and has for many years been Stockholm's (and Sweden's) main private theatre for comedies and farces. In this genre it has a proud history: it was for many years (1895–1928) run by the legendary Swedish theatre manager Albert Ranft who in the early 20th century staged a large number of French and British comedy plays. He had personal contact with many of the most popular European comedy playwrights at the time, including George Bernard Shaw, and successfully had a great number of contemporary comedy plays translated and staged in Sweden at \"Vasan\". Plays such as Oscar Wilde's \"The Importance of Being Earnest (Mr Ernst)\", Shaw's \"You Never Can Tell (Man kan aldrig veta)\" and \"Major Barbara\", and \"Jack Straw\" by W. Somerset Maugham. Popular French playwrights at the theatre included Georges Feydeau, Georges Berr and Nancy & Jean Rieux. Strindberg was also produced at the Vasateatern.\n\nOver the years it has produced most of the classic farces and comedies. Historic long-runners from the 1950s to the 1980s include \"Charley's Aunt\", the stage version of \"Cactus Flower\" and \"The Spanish Fly (Die spanische Fliege)\", the popular 1914 German farce by Franz Arnold and Ernst Bach.\n\nLegendary Swedish thespian Gösta Ekman (senior) is said to haunt the theatre at nights.\n\nThe theatre closed in 2009 in connection with an extensive renovation in the neighbourhood that was transformed into Scandic Grand Central Hotel. Large parts of the interior of the theatre was taken down while the auditorium was used as a dump during the construction. Parts of the theatre's former premises have been occupied by the hotel business. For example, the theatre cafe integrated with the hotel and converted into the bistro. After the property is sold by the developer Diligentia to Norwegian KLP Eiendom the plans for the theatre are unclear and the theatre operations remained dormant. Because of monument protection the location must be preserved. The beautiful auditorium is preserved, but as of 2012 there were no theatre shows in production.\n\nKrister Henriksson, the Swedish actor used to be the co-owner and Theatre Director.\n\n"}
{"id": "15283052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15283052", "title": "WorldSkills", "text": "WorldSkills\n\nWorldSkills organises the world championships of vocational skills, and is held every two years in different parts of the world. The organisation, which also hosts conferences about vocational skills, describes itself as the global hub for skills.\n\nWorldSkills brings together young people, industry, government, education, and institutions, to promote the benefits of and need for skilled trade professionals. The aims of the competition include demonstrating the advantages of learning a vocational skill, and encouraging 'parity of esteem' between vocational and academic qualifications.\n\nAt the most recent event, WorldSkills Abu Dhabi 2017, there were competitions in 51 skills areas with close to 1,300 young people taking part. WorldSkills Abu Dhabi 2017, took place between 15 and 18 October 2017 at Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The next WorldSkills Competition will be held in Kazan, Russia in 2019.\n\nWorldSkills currently has 79 Member countries and regions, most of which organise national skills competitions that help to prepare the workforce and talent of today for the jobs of the future.\n\nWorldSkills International, formerly known as the International Vocation Training Organisation (IVTO), was founded in the 1940s and emerged from a desire to create new employment opportunities for young people in some of the economies that were devastated by the Second World War.\n\nGoverned by an international Board of Directors and administered by the WorldSkills Secretariat, WSI's mission is \"To raise the profile and recognition of skilled people, and show how important skills are in achieving economic growth and personal success.\"\n\nAmong its main objectives are: \n\nMedals are awarded during the competition: gold, silver and bronze. Medallions of Excellence are also awarded to those Competitors who achieve above-average scores in their contest areas.\n\nThe WorldSkills Competition is currently held every two years.\n\nBy country\n\nThe city of Kazan, Russia, will host the 45th WorldSkills Competition in 2019. The award was made as the result of a vote taken at the WorldSkills General Assembly meeting held in São Paulo, Brazil, 10 August 2015.\n\nWorldSkills Kazan 2019, will be hosted in Russia, 29 August - 3 September 2019.\n\nThe 2021 WorldSkills event will be held in one of the world’s most dynamic and ambitious cities. Shanghai, was confirmed as the host by the WorldSkills General Assembly in October 2017.\n\nThe slogan for WorldSkills Shanghai 2021 is “New Youth, New Skills, New Dream”. The event, which is expected to be held in late September 2021, will take place at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in the city. The bid noted six main reasons why China want to host the event.\n\nThree countries are reported to be preparing bids to host WorldSkills 2023.\n\nJapan is preparing a bid to host the event for the third time.\n\nFrance is preparing a bid to host the event for the second time (after Lyon in 1995). The President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, officially announced his intention that France host WorldSkills 2023. He is committed to supporting youth, TVET and skills ever since he visited the French National Finals in Bordeaux in 2017, before he was elected President.\n\nSwitzerland is also joining to bid for the event for the fourth time. Basel has been chosen as the hosting city.\n\nCandidate bid cities will be approved by WSI at the WorldSkills General Assembly in Amsterdam 2018, and the vote will take place at the WorldSkills General Assembly in Kazan 2019, before the competition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53393485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53393485", "title": "World Congress on Intelligent Transport Systems", "text": "World Congress on Intelligent Transport Systems\n\nThe World Congress on Intelligent Transport Systems (commonly known as the ITS World Congress) is an annual conference and trade show to promote ITS technologies. ERTICO (ITS Europe), ITS America, ITS AsiaPacific and ITS Japan are its sponsors. Each year the event takes place in a different region (Europe, Americas or Asia-Pacific). The 2017 World Congress will be held in Montreal, Canada from October 29 to November 2.\n\nIntelligent transportation systems (ITS) are advanced applications which, without embodying intelligence as such, aim to provide innovative services relating to different modes of transport and traffic management and enable various users to be better informed and make safer, more coordinated, and 'smarter' use of transport networks. They are considered a part of the Internet of things.\n\nThe first ITS World Congress was held in 1994 in Paris followed by the 2nd Yokohama in 1995 and the 3rd Orlando in 1996. The rotation of the venue location among the regions of the world continued:\n\n• 1997 4th Berlin \n• 1998 5th Seoul\n• 1999 6th Toronto \n• 2000 7th Torino\n• 2001 8th Sydney \n• 2002 9th Chicago \n• 2003 10th Madrid \n• 2004 11th Nagoya\n• 2005 12th San Francisco \n• 2006 13th London \n• 2007 14th Beijing \n• 2008 15th New York City \n• 2009 16th Stockholm and its Post Congress Report \n• 2010 17th Busan \n• 2011 18th Orlando\n• 2012 19th Vienna \n• 2013 20th Tokyo \n• 2014 21st Detroit \n• 2015 22nd Bordeaux\n• 2016 23rd Melbourne and its Post Congress Report \n• 2017 24th Montréal and its Post Congress Report \n• 2018 25th Copenhagen \n\nITS World Congress Reports are archived by ITS Japan. \n\n• 2019 26th Singapore\n• 2020 27th Los Angeles \n• 2021 28th Hamburg\n• 2022 29th Suzhou\n"}
{"id": "3469386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3469386", "title": "World Sportscar Championship", "text": "World Sportscar Championship\n\nThe World Sportscar Championship was the world series run for sports car racing by the FIA from 1953 to 1992.\n\nThe championship evolved from a small collection of the most important sportscar, endurance, and road racing events in Europe and North America with dozens of gentleman drivers at the grid, to a professional racing series where the world's largest automakers spent millions of dollars per year. The official name of the series changed throughout the years, however it has generally been known as the World Sportscar Championship from its inception in 1953. The World Sportscar Championship was, with the Formula One World Championship, one of the two major world championships in circuit motor racing.\n\nIn 2012 the World Sportscar Championship was revived and renamed as the World Endurance Championship.\n\nAmong others, the following races counted towards the championships in certain years:\n\nIn the early years, now legendary races such as the Mille Miglia, Carrera Panamericana and Targa Florio were part of the calendar, alongside the 24 Hours of Le Mans, the 12 Hours of Sebring, the Tourist Trophy and Nurburgring 1000 km. Manufacturers such as Ferrari, Maserati, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, and Aston Martin fielded entries, often featuring professional racing drivers with experience in Formula One, but the majority of the fields were made up of gentleman drivers (privateers) in the likes of Nardis and Bandinis. Cars were split into Sports Car and GT (production car) categories and were further divided into engine displacement classes. The Ferrari and Maserati works teams were fierce competitors throughout much of the decade, but although Maserati cars won many races the make never managed to clinch the World title. The Mercedes-Benz work team pulled out of the championship after 1955 due to their crash at Le Mans, while the small Aston Martin factory team struggled to find success in 1957 and 1958 until it managed to win the championship in 1959. Notably absent from the overall results were the Jaguar works team, who did not enter any events other than Le Mans, despite the potential of the C- and D-Types.\n\nIn 1962, the calendar was expanded to include smaller races, while the FIA shifted the focus to production based GT cars. The World Sportscar Championship title was discontinued, being replaced by the International Championship for GT Manufacturers. They group cars into three categories with specific engine sizes; less than one litre, less than two litres, and over two litres. Hillclimbs, sprint races and smaller races expanded the championship, which now had about 15 races per season. The famous races like Le Mans still counted towards the prototype championship, however, the points valuation wasn't very tabular so the FIA returned to the original form of the championship with about 6 to 10 races.\n\nFor 1963 the three engine capacity classes remained but a prototype category was added. For 1965 the engine classes became for cars under 1300 cc (Class I), under 2000 cc (Class II), and over 2000 cc (Class III). Class III was designed to attract more American manufacturers, with no upper limit on engine displacement.\n\nThe period between 1966 and 1971 was possibly the most successful era of the World Championship, with S (5 L sports cars ) and P (3 L prototypes) classes, and cars such as the Ferrari 512S, Ferrari 330 P4, Ford GT40, Lola T70, Chaparral, Alfa Romeo 33, and Porsche's 908 and the 917 battled for supremacy on classic circuits such as Sebring, Nürburgring, Spa-Francorchamps, Monza, Targa Florio, and Le Mans, in what is now considered the Golden Age of sports car racing.\n\nIn 1972 the Group 6 Prototype and Group 5 Sports Car classes were both replaced by a new Group 5 Sports Car class. These cars were limited to 3.0 L engines by the FIA, and manufacturers gradually lost interest. The new Group 5 Sports Cars, together with Group 4 Grand Touring Cars, would contest the FIA's newly renamed World Championship for Makes from 1972 to 1975. From 1976 to 1981 the World Championship for Makes was open to Group 5 Special Production Cars and other production based categories including Group 4 Grand Touring cars and it was during this period that the nearly-invincible Porsche 935 dominated the championship. Prototypes returned in 1976 as Group 6 cars with their own series, the World Championship for Sports Cars, but this was to last only for two seasons (1976-1977). In 1981, the FIA instituted a drivers championship.\n\nIn 1982, the FIA attempted to counter a worrying climb in engine output of the Group 5 Special Production Cars by introducing Group C, a new category for closed sports-prototypes (purpose built racing cars) that limited fuel consumption (the theory being that by limiting fuel consumption, engine regulations could be more relaxed). While this change was unwelcome amongst some of the private teams, manufacturer support for the new regulations was immense. Several of the 'old guard' manufacturers returned to the WSC within the next two years, with each marque adding to the diversity of the series. Under the new rules, it was theoretically possible for normally aspirated engines to compete with the (expensive to maintain) forced induction engines that had dominated the series in the '70s and early '80s. In addition, most races ran for either 500 or 1000 km, usually going over three and six hours, respectively, so it was possible to emphasize the \"endurance\" aspect of the competition as well. Group B cars, which was a GT class, were also allowed to race, but entries in this class were sparse, and Group B cars disappeared from the series, with sports-prototypes dominating the championship.\n\nPorsche was the first constructor to join the series, with the 956, but soon several other makes joined the series, including Jaguar Cars, Mercedes-Benz, Nissan, Toyota, Mazda and Aston Martin. As costs increased, a C2 class (originally named C Junior) was created for privateer teams and small manufacturers, with greater limits to fuel consumption. In this lower class, most cars used either the BMW M1 engine or the new Cosworth DFL, but, like in the main class, a variety of solutions were employed by each individual manufacturer. Alba, Tiga, Spice and Ecurie Ecosse were among the most competitive in this class. While the Group C formula had brought manufacturers back to the sport, it was again Porsche - with its 956 & 962 Group C line - that continued their domination of the sport.\n\nFor 1986, the World Endurance Championship became the World Sports-Prototype Championship.\n\nAlthough the Group C formula was a success, with regular crowds of 50,000 to 70,000 at WSC events (a modern Grand Prix in Europe will have similar crowds), and upwards of 350,000 at the 24 hours of Le Mans, the FIA introduced new rules for 1991 at the behest of FIA vice president Bernie Ecclestone; 750 kg machines with contemporary normally aspirated engines, which were purpose-built 3500cc racing units. The new classification, known as Group C Category 1, was designed to mandate Formula One engines. Although power was generally less than existing Group C cars (around 650 bhp compared to around 750 bhp upwards) the new cars are considered to be among the quickest sportscars ever. However, the take up of these new regulations was slow and only a handful of Category 1 cars were ready for the 1991 season. Consequently, the FIA also allowed cars complying with pre-1991 Group C rules to contest the championship (as Group C Category 2 cars) during the one transitional year. They were however seriously handicapped in terms of weight, fuel allocation and grid positions. For 1991 the championship took on yet another new name, the FIA Sportscar World Championship and the new 3.5 litre rules took full effect for the 1992 championship with the old Group C cars no longer included.\n\nThe new generation of WSC racing engines, with the stated intent of cost reduction and improved competition, quickly proved highly suspect. Costs rose massively as works teams developed cars capable of qualifying around halfway up a Formula 1 grid, despite weighing some 200 kg more. Manufacturers again abandoned the sportscar series, realising they now had an engine suitable for F1. In particular, Mercedes and Peugeot elected to either concentrate on or move solely to F1. The more exotic engines were unaffordable for teams like Spice and ADA, thus after the manufacturers left the top class of sportscar racing, the series essentially collapsed. A lack of entries meant the 1993 season was cancelled before the first race.\n\nIn 1994, the World Sportscar title would return, this time in the hands of the International Motor Sports Association in North America for use in the IMSA GT series. The name would be used for the series' top class of prototypes until 1998 when the series ended.\n\nIn addition, 1994 also signaled the return of an international GT series after an absence of over a decade with the introduction of the BPR Global GT Series. The success of the series lead to a friendly takeover by the FIA in 1997, becoming the FIA GT Championship. Prototypes were mainly absent from European tracks (Le Mans being the sole notable exception) until 1997, which saw with the creation of the International Sports Racing Series which evolved into the short-lived FIA Sportscar Championship in 2001 until 2003. Sports prototypes then came exclusively under the control of the Automobile Club de l'Ouest (ACO) and their sanctioned series, the American Le Mans Series in North America and the Le Mans Series in Europe. The FIA's championship for GTs was eventually promoted to world championship status in 2010, while the ACO launched their own international championship, the Intercontinental Le Mans Cup, the same year.\n\nFollowing the success of the ACO's Intercontinental Le Mans Cup (ILMC), the FIA reached an agreement with the ACO to create a new FIA World Endurance Championship for 2012. The series shares many elements of the ILMC, including the use of the 24 Hours of Le Mans as part of the series schedule. The series continues to utilize the ACO's two primary classes, Le Mans Prototypes and GT Endurance. Championship titles are awarded for constructors and drivers in prototypes, while a constructors cup are awarded in the GTE categories.\n\n\n"}
