{"id": "10944017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10944017", "title": "Acropolis Museum", "text": "Acropolis Museum\n\nThe Acropolis Museum (, \"Mouseio Akropolis\") is an archaeological museum focused on the findings of the archaeological site of the Acropolis of Athens. The museum was built to house every artifact found on the rock and on the surrounding slopes, from the Greek Bronze Age to Roman and Byzantine Greece. It also lies over the ruins of a part of Roman and early Byzantine Athens.\n\nThe museum was founded in 2003, while the Organization of the Museum was established in 2008. It opened to the public on 20 June 2009. Nearly 4,000 objects are exhibited over an area of 14,000 square metres. The Organization for the Construction of the new museum is chaired by Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Professor Emeritus of Archaeology, Dimitrios Pandermalis.\n\nThe first museum was on the Acropolis; it was completed in 1874 and underwent a moderate expansion in the 1950s. However, successive excavations on the Acropolis uncovered many new artifacts which significantly exceeded its original capacity.\n\nAn additional motivation for the construction of a new museum was that in the past, when Greece made requests for the return of the Parthenon Marbles from the United Kingdom, which acquired the items in a controversial manner, it was suggested by some British officials that Greece had no suitable location where they could be displayed. Creation of a gallery for the display of the Parthenon Marbles has been key to all recent proposals for the design of a new museum.\n\nThe first architectural competition to design a new museum was held in 1976 and was limited to participants from Greece. Both the 1976 competition and one that followed it in 1979 failed to produce any results mainly because the plots of land selected for the proposed constructions were deemed unsuitable.\n\nIn 1989, a third competition for the design of the new Acropolis Museum was announced that would be international. A choice of three possible sites was provided. This competition was won by the Italian architects, Manfredi Nicoletti and Lucio Passarelli. After delays throughout the 1990s, work on the construction of the museum based on this third design progressed to the stage of excavations for the foundations, but these were stopped due to apparently sensitive archaeological remains on the site, leading to annulment of the competition in 1999. In retrospect, the location of the new museum was rather straightforward: the large lot of the unused \"Camp Makrygianni\" gendarmerie barracks, opposite the Theater of Dionysus. The barracks were built on public land and a limited number of expropriations of surrounding private houses were needed to free up the necessary space. The main building of the old barracks, the neoclassical \"Weiler Building\", has been renovated and houses the Museum of the Center for the Acropolis Studies.\n\nThe fourth competition had made no provision for the preservation of the ancient site. These were met to a degree only after local and international (ICOMOS) campaigners exposed this oversight and it became the final competition. The new plans were adjusted so that the building was elevated above ground, on pillars. Competition was open only to architectural practices by invitation and it was won by New York–based architect, Bernard Tschumi, in collaboration with the Greek architect Michael Photiadis. Excavation has revealed two layers of modest, private roadside houses and workshops, one from the early Byzantine era and another from the classical era. Once the layout and stratigraphy of the findings were established, suitable locations for the foundation pillars were identified. These traverse the soil to the underlying bedrock and float on roller bearings able to withstand a Richter scale magnitude 10 earthquake.\n\nAs construction work neared completion, the operation to move the historic artifacts the distance from the Acropolis rock to the new museum started in October 2007, took four months, and required the use of three tower cranes to move the sculptures across the distance without mishap. Greek officials expressed their hope that the new museum will help in the campaign for the return of the Parthenon Marbles.\n\nThe museum is located by the southeastern slope of the Acropolis hill, on the ancient road that led up to the \"sacred rock\" in classical times. Set only , away from the Parthenon, and a mere walking distance from it, the museum is the largest modern building erected so close to the ancient site, although many other buildings from the last 150 years are located closer to the Acropolis. The entrance to the building is on Dionysiou Areopagitou Street and directly adjacent to the Akropoli metro station the red line of the Athens Metro.\n\nThe design by Bernard Tschumi was selected as the winning project in the fourth competition. Tschumi's design revolves around three concepts: light, movement, and a tectonic and programmatic element. Together these characteristics \"turn the constraints of the site into an architectural opportunity, offering a simple and precise museum\" with the mathematical and conceptual clarity of ancient Greek buildings.\n\nThe collections of the museum are exhibited on three levels while a fourth middle level houses the auxiliary spaces such as the museum shop, the café and the offices. On the first level of the museum there are the findings of the slopes of the Acropolis. The long and rectangular hall whose floor is sloping, resembles the ascension to the rock. Then, the visitor is found at the large trapezoidal hall which accommodates the archaic findings. On the same floor there are also the artifacts and sculptures from the other Acropolis buildings such as the Erechtheum, the Temple of Athena Nike and the Propylaea and findings from Roman and early Christian Athens. Visitors are intended to see the latter during descent in order to keep the chronological order: they will first be directed to the top level, which displays the Parthenon marbles.\n\nThe top level of the Museum sits askew on the lower levels to achieve the same cardinal orientation of the ancient temple on the Acropolis. The spacing of the columns of the Parthenon hall is the same as that of the ancient temple, and the use of glass walls on all four exterior walls allows the natural light to illumine the Parthenon marbles as they do on the ancient temple. The 48 columns in the Parthenon hall mark the outline of the ancient temple and form a colonnade for the display of the Parthenon marbles. For ease of viewing, the pediment marbles are displayed at eye level in front of the end columns; the metopes are displayed on the columns, two per column, but not as high as in the ancient temple; and the frieze are displayed behind the metopes, forming a continuous band around the walls of a rectangular space set inside the columns, as in the ancient temple but not as high, again for ease of viewing. From the north side of the Parthenon hall, one can see the ancient temple above on the Acropolis.\n\nAs the museum is built over an extensive archaeological site, the floor, outside and inside, is often transparent using glass and thus the visitor can see the excavations below. The museum also provides an amphitheatre, a virtual theatre and a hall for temporary exhibitions.\n\nA controversy erupted over the plans of the new museum and whether it was appropriate to build it on the archaeological site in Makrygianni neighborhood. Another concern was whether a large modern building would fit well into the landscape.\n\nIn 2007, another controversy erupted over the proposed demolition of two historic buildings. These are in front of the museum, numbers 17 and 19, Dionysiou Areopagitou Street, facing the Acropolis (see picture, left). Bernard Tschumi has been showing photographic images of the space in front of the museum edited to remove the two buildings and nearby four-story-tall trees. The Greek Government has had the two buildings de-listed historically although one is Neo-Classical and the other an example of Art Deco architecture. Protests against the proposed demolition came from international agencies such as INTBAU and ICOMOS.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3156330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3156330", "title": "Albinism in popular culture", "text": "Albinism in popular culture\n\nThe depiction of albinism in popular culture, especially the portrayal of people with albinism in film and fiction, has been asserted by albinism organizations and others to be largely negative and has raised concerns that it reinforces, or even engenders, societal prejudice and discrimination against such people. This trend is sometimes referred to as the \"\"evil albino\" plot device\".\n\nThe \"evil albino\" stereotype or stock character is a villain in fiction who is depicted as being albinistic (or displaying physical traits usually associated with albinism, even if the term is not used), with the specific and obvious purpose of distinguishing the villain in question from the heroes by means of appearance. Traits of albinism commonly associated with the evil albino stereotype include pale skin, platinum blonde hair, and blue or pink-to-red eyes. Notably absent from most depictions is impaired vision, which is experienced by most real people with albinism.\n\nThe stereotype has become sufficiently well-recognized to attract satire and to be considered a cliché. In response to the \"albino gunmen\" characters in \"The Da Vinci Code\" and \"The Matrix Reloaded\", albinistic actor Dennis Hurley wrote, produced and starred in a short film parody, \"The Albino Code\", playing up the stereotypes, illustrating a typical example of real-world prejudice, and pointing out that the vision problems associated with albinism would make a successful career as a hitman highly improbable. In \"The Big Over Easy\", author Jasper Fforde includes an \"albino community\" protest against albino bias among his fictional news clippings, most of which satirize stock characters and hackneyed plot devices. \"Chicago Tribune\" movie reviewer Mark Caro says of this character type that it is someone \"who looks albino and thus, in movie shorthand, must be vicious\". The National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation (NOAH) has stated that there were a total of sixty-eight films from 1960 to 2006 featuring an \"evil albino\".\n\nConversely, a number of real people with albinism have risen to fame , especially in popular music and fashion modeling (though, as in the case of the Winter brothers, may themselves be the subject of \"evil albino\" parody). Albino animals capture public imagination and wonder as zoo attractions, and even in the wild can attract popular, positive attention .\n\nThe \"evil albino\" stereotype may also have its roots in Neolithic Eastern Europe, where some cultures depicted Death as a pallid woman with light hair. Fear of vampires and other legendary undead with a deathly pallor, especially in European folklore, could also have contributed to albino bias. The phenomenon may also have been influenced by attitudes towards people with albinism in Africa or Jamaica, where those with that condition are sometimes regarded as cursed or magical . Dermatologist Dr. Vail Reese theorizes that albino bias may be part of a broader Hollywood pattern of equating or at least linking skin disorders and appearance problems with villainy.\n\nAnother explanation may be sought in respective ideals of ugliness — most \"evil albinos\" appear in works of fiction from the West. In fiction from Japan, where ideals call for as pale skin as possible, characters with albinism or associated traits are more frequently sympathetic than in American and British fiction. This is not to say that Japanese popular culture has not depicted \"evil albinos\". However, such characters in Japanese fiction are often \"bishōnen\" or \"bishōjo\" whose beautiful appearance gives contrast to their evil character. Use of albinistic features to indicate villains in Hollywood films appears to have begun in the 1960s, and may be related to the popularity of tanning (and thus a decrease in pale skin being seen as attractive) in this period.\n\nOne of the oldest perceived literary examples of albino bias was H. G. Wells's depiction of the main character in his 1897 science-fiction novel \"The Invisible Man\", who was able to become invisible using his scientific discoveries only because he already lacked natural pigmentation; aberrant even before his experimentation, he subsequently became completely deranged.\n\nAlbino bias is also alleged in modern times. For example, the 2003 Warner Bros movie \"The Matrix Reloaded\" featured two sociopathic characters with pale skin and white hair frequently interpreted to be albinos despite studio declarations that they are not. Positive depictions of albinos in mass culture are rarer, though one example is the 1995 film \"Powder\" which depicts an exceptionally gifted albinistic youth and the cruelty he endures from \"normal\" people because of his differences. In recent years, the National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation (NOAH) has spoken out against albino bias in the United States. Albinistic actor Michael C. Bowman, of \"Me, Myself and Irene\", has said, \"Kids all over this country are being affected in a very negative and harmful way because of the sloppiness and laziness of a writer in Hollywood.\"\n\nA number of movies, books and other works have been criticized for albino bias, as they associate the uncommon features of albinistic people (pale skin, white hair, and unpigmented eyes) with danger, terror, or criminality. Less frequently they are depicted as the harmless butt of jokes and ridicule, as maladjusted and undersocialized, or as \"freaks\". They may also actually be portrayed positively, even heroically – a more recent counter-trend.\nIn the 2012 Canadian movie war witch (rebelle) by Kim Nguyen, telling the story of a runaway child soldier in West Africa and an albino boy played by Serge Kanyinda, albinos play an important role. The movie portrays an albino community.\n\nThe most common depiction of people with albinism in fiction is that of the inimical, violent villain, especially the hitman, assassin, sociopath or crime boss.\n\n\nIn the last few decades, there has been an increase in the number albinistic characters who are mocked (sometimes by the actual works in which they appear, an instance of albino bias itself, and sometimes by other characters in a way that highlights albino bias).\n\nNeutral or at least morally uncertain depictions of persons with albinism are also somewhat common in literature and film, as anti-heroes, morally confused characters, or simply incidentally.\n\n\nPersons with albinism are sometimes depicted heroically or otherwise positively, or at least accurately with regard to their condition and its medical and social results:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Zimbabwe, modern folklore posits that sexual intercourse with an albinistic person will cure one of HIV, leading to the rape (and subsequent HIV infection) of women with albinism in that region.\n\nIn Tanzania in 2008, President Kikwete publicly condemned witch doctors for opportunistic persecution of albinism, including a spate of murders of albinistic people (over 50 since March 2007, as of October 2008, and initially limited to Tanzania) for their body parts which are thought to bring good luck – hair, arms, legs and blood are used to make potions which the witchdoctors claim will bring prosperity. Consequently, graves of the albinistic have to be sealed with cement to discourage grave robbers.\nBy June 2008 killings had been reported in neighboring Kenya and possibly also the Democratic Republic of Congo, spreading to Burundi by October 2008. \"(See Persecution of people with albinism for more information.)\"\n\nIn Jamaica, people with albinism were historically degraded, and regarded as \"cursed\". In recent times, the albinistic musicians King Yellowman and Al Beeno have helped to curb this stereotype.\n\nThe 2004 book \"Weird N.J.\" (a tie-in to the History Channel TV series \"Weird U.S.\") chronicled, failed to prove, yet further popularized one of the lesser-known local urban legends of the US, \"albino colonies\". The book uses alleged firsthand accounts mailed to the authors to paint a picture of various locations in the U.S. (most notably Clifton, New Jersey) where aggregations of albinistic families were said to live in seclusion. The accounts tell tales of honking horns to try to bring the residents out of their houses, of gawkers being shot at by residents, and even of gangs of local albinistic vigilantes.\n\nIn some versions of the sewer alligator urban legends, the alligators supposedly became albinistic due to mutation (which is implausible due to the short time scale) and/or lack of exposure to sunlight (which erroneously conflates pallor due to lack of exposure to sunlight with albinism).\n\nAmong the Kuna of Panama and Colombia, members with albinism have a special place in the indigenous mythology. While they are regarded as physically inferior, they are, at the same time, regarded as 'closer to God' and in possession of special powers. At times of eclipses, the Kunas believe their members with albinism are able to scare away with bow and arrow the demon who devours the sun or moon.\n\nDue to a wave of persecution of people with albinism in some parts of Africa (especially Tanzania and neighboring countries) – including ritual murder and dismemberment for potions and good-luck charms – a number of documentary films have been made about the problem. These include \"In My Genes\" (Kenya, 2009), \"\" (Canada/Tanzania, 2010), and \"In the Shadow of the Sun\" (Tanzania, 2013). \n\nAlso released in 2013, \"White Shadow\", an award-winning German–Italian–Tanzanian drama film, portrays the plight of albinistic Tanzanians and their efforts to avoid falling victim to witchdoctors' bounty hunters.\n\nOutside the African context, the 2007 short film \"Perception Is Not Reality: Portraying the REAL Truths About Albinism\", dispelling Hollywood and urban-legend nonsense about the condition, was produced by Mashawna Thompson, editor of the \"Parent of a Child with Albinism\" blog. A new version, featuring over 40 different children with albinism, was released in 2014. The theme of the aforementioned \"The Albino Code\" (2007) is to point out the absurdity of typical depictions of albinistic people in Western media. In 2009, two African American albinistic fashion models, Shaun Ross and Diandra Forrest, were the focus of an episode of the \"Tyra Banks Show\", and revealed the traumas they experienced growing up albinistic, before finding unexpected success in front of the camera.\n\n\nRoy Orbison was falsely said to be albinistic, by his widow, for unknown reasons. German singer Heino has Graves disease, which can be mistaken for albinism. Actor Anthony Rapp (of \"\") fronts a rock band called Albinokid, but is not albinistic, being a normally pigmented, blonde Caucasian. Former Mayor of London Boris Johnson, known for his pale hair, has also been mistakenly called albino. In general, platinum blonde (\"towheaded\") people with very pale skin can be mistaken for albinistic (and conversely, some forms of albinism can result in phenotypes so normal-looking that only genetic testing can reveal the albinistic genes).\n\nAn albino humpback whale called Migaloo (Australian Aboriginal for \"White Lad\") travels the east coast of Australia, and has become famous in the local media. Bristol Zoo was the home to a very rare albino African penguin named Snowdrop, who was hatched at the zoo in October 2002 and died in August 2004. For many years, a unique albino gorilla named Floquet de Neu in Catalan and Copito de Nieve in Spanish (both meaning \"Snowflake\"), was the most famous resident of the Parc Zoològic de Barcelona. In 2009 a pink albino bottlenose dolphin, nicknamed Pinky, was sighted several times in an inland lake in the United States, and footage of it has become popular on Internet video sites. There is also an albino crocodile in Jungle Island theme park in Miami, Fl.\n\nPerhaps the most significant albino animal in history was Mocha Dick, a sperm whale of the early 19th century that lived mostly near the island of Mocha, off Chile's southern Pacific coast, several decades before Herman Melville fictionalized him in the 1851 novel \"Moby-Dick\". The real whale was renowned for being docile until attacked whereupon he became ferocious and capable of disabling smaller vessels. This made him widely feared among whaler crews, though also a target for adventurous captains, who engaged him in possibly as many as hundred or more sea battles before he was eventually killed.\n\nBáo giá in catalogue tốt nhất Hà Nội\n\n"}
{"id": "30882871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30882871", "title": "Ambivalent prejudice", "text": "Ambivalent prejudice\n\nAmbivalent prejudice is a social psychological theory that states that, when people become aware that they have conflicting beliefs about an outgroup (a group of people that do not belong to an individual's own group), they experience an unpleasant mental feeling generally referred to as cognitive dissonance. These feelings are brought about because the individual on one hand believes in humanitarian virtues such as helping those in need, but on the other hand also believes in individualistic virtues such as working hard to improve one's life.\n\nBernard Whitley and Mary Kite contend that this dissonance motivates people to alter their thoughts in an attempt to reduce their discomfort. Depending on the situation or context that has primed them, people will give priority to either the positive beliefs or the negative beliefs, leading to a corresponding behavioral shift known as \"response amplification\".\n\nAccording to Susan Fiske, there are two underlying characteristics of stigmatized groups around the world: the ideas that status predicts perceived competence and that cooperation predicts perceived warmth. Two combinations of competence and warmth produce ambivalent prejudices. The combined perception of groups as warm but incompetent leads to pitied groups, such as traditional women or older people. The combined perception of groups as competent but cold leads to envied groups, such as nontraditional women or minority entrepreneurs. Fiske uses this conception of prejudice to explain ambivalent sexism, heterosexism, racism, anti-immigrant biases, ageism, and classism.\n\nAccording to Whitley and Kite, ambivalent prejudice comes from one person having both good and bad thoughts about an outgroup. The example in their book \"The Psychology of Prejudice and Discrimination\" talks about race and how some people often have ambivalent attitudes towards people of other races. This means that their behavior is also ambivalent: \"sometimes it is positive, sometimes negative\".\n\nIrwin Katz said that ambivalent prejudice only occurs when the individual becomes aware of the conflicting attitudes, and, for most people, simply coming face-to-face with someone from the outgroup can cause this. According to Katz, this conflict of attitudes can cause problems with one's self-image, because it seems as though one is not living up to all important values that one holds. This conflict can cause negative emotions, which are expressed in negative behavior.\n\nIrwin Katz and Glen Hass (1988) believed that contradicting American values are to blame for ambivalent prejudice. The first value is that hard work will always pay off and people get what they deserve, while the other is that all people are equal and that people should help the less fortunate. When this is applied to race, many people are torn. They see disadvantaged people of other races as not working hard enough to be worth as much as people of their own race, but they also understand that people of other race have a harder time financially and socially. These mixed emotions lead to ambivalence.\n\nTara MacDonald and Mark Zanna suggested that stereotypes were to blame for ambivalent prejudice. According to MacDonald and Zanna, people can like others and respect others, the two emotions working independently of each other. When a person feels those things towards an entire group, it is because of stereotypes. Therefore, a person can like and disrespect people of other races, due to certain stereotypes, or dislike but respect the same group of people for other stereotypes.\n\nIn a study testing the nature of ambivalent prejudice, Hisako Matsuo and Kevin McIntyre (2005) studied American attitudes toward immigrant groups. He proposed that ambivalent prejudice stems from two views. There is the individualistic attitude that values the Protestant work ethic, and this attitude is associated with more negative attitudes toward outgroups. The other view is an egalitarian or humanitarian one, which is associated with more positive attitudes toward outgroups.\n\nResearchers use a variety of methods to measure ambivalent prejudice. The most widely used method is the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory (ASI) for sexism created by Glick and Fiske in 1996. Typical of all ingroup- outgroup relations, one group (men) has a much greater societal status. This is due to male ambivalence having three sources: paternalism, gender differentiation, and heterosexuality. This assessment measures an individual's endorsement of ambivalent sexism. The theory of ambivalent sexism postulates that male ambivalence has three sources: paternalism, gender differentiation, and heterosexuality. Women who resist traditional gender roles are punished by hostile sexism which resembles old-fashioned sexism. The theory predicts resentment of nontraditional women along each dimension: dominative paternalism, competitive gender differentiation, and heterosexual hostility. Conversely, women who cooperate with traditional gender roles and relationships evoke benevolent sexism which comprises protective paternalism, complementary gender differentiation, and heterosexual intimacy. The ASI measures sexism along each of the six dimensions that compose hostile sexism and benevolent sexism.\n\nThe ASI is a self-report measure composed of 22 items, 11 for each subscale: hostile sexism and benevolent sexism. The two subscales can be calculated separately, or they can be averaged together to get an overall measure of sexism. The assessment consist of a series of statements with which respondents indicate their level of agreement on a 6-point Likert scale in which 0 = disagree strongly and 5 = agree strongly. Certain items are reversed coded so that agreement with the statement indicates lower levels of sexism and disagreement with the statement indicates higher levels of sexism. Example items from the ASI include:\n\nBelow is a series of statements concerning men and women and their relationships in contemporary society that this study wrote for their subjects to evaluate.\n\nBenevolent sexism subset:\n\nHostile sexism subset:\nResearchers use various other methods to measure different types of ambivalent prejudices. For example, the Modern Racism Scale measures aspects of ambivalent racism.\n\nAmbivalent sexism reflects the duality of hostility towards women and the tendency for women to be rated more positively than men in surveys. Hostile sexism impacts nontraditional women who threaten male power, for example, female professionals and intellectuals, feminists, and lesbians. Conversely, benevolent sexism protects women who adhere to traditional gender roles, such as housewives and secretaries. Fiske asserts that these two forms of sexism comprise ambivalence. On the one hand, women are viewed as competent but not warm, while on the other hand, they are viewed as warm but incompetent. In the workplace, nontraditional women tend to suffer from hostile sexism since they are viewed as competitors. As benevolent sexism includes perceived obligations of protection and help, it leads to women being viewed as less worthy of hiring, training, and promoting due to the concern of them being less able to effectively manage both personal and professional. Fiske contends that when addressing bias against women, both demeaning benevolence and dangerous hostility must be account for.\n\nAmbivalent racism depicts two contrasting reactions by whites toward blacks. These competing evaluations include hostile (antiblack) sentiments and subjectively sympathetic but paternalistic (problack) sentiments. Problack attitudes attribute black disadvantage to larger social structures and factors including discrimination, segregation, and lack of opportunities. In contrast, hostile antiblack racism, like old-fashioned racism asserts that \"black people are unambitious, disorganized, free-riding, and do not value education.\" Fiske states that \"black Americans are viewed ambivalently mainly to the extent that white Americans simultaneously harbor a more subjectively positive and a more hostile attitude, which can flip from one polarity to the other, depending on individual differences in beliefs and on situational cues.\"\n\nSöder suggests that people do not have fixed cognitive assumptions or emotions about people with disabilities. Rather, people are ambivalent, so their behavior in any given situation will depend on the context. People have two contrasting ideas about people with disabilities; people devalue disabilities while maintaining a benevolent sympathy towards disabled people. This leads to a conflict between basic values held by wider society and moral dilemmas in concrete daily interactions with people with disabilities. Söder proposes an ambivalence model as a better method for evaluating interactions with and attitudes about disabled people as it better captures the totality of people's sentiments.\n\nMatsuo and McIntyre applied the concept of ambivalent prejudice to immigrants and refugees. They described attitudes toward immigrants and refugees as ambivalent since on the one hand they are perceived \"sympathetically, as disadvantaged, and deserving of justice\", but on the other hand, they are seen as \"more likely to be involved in crime and a burden on the public system.\" Matsuo and McIntyre used a sample survey of college students to test egalitarianism and the Protestant work ethic(PWE) and how it relates to perceptions of refugees. Participants completed survey questions regarding social contact, attitudes toward specific ethnic groups, general attitudes toward refugees, and the Humanitarianism/Protestant Work Ethic Scale. They found that the ambivalent attitudes toward refugees is based on the \"dual maintenance of American values\", egalitarianism and PWE. In testing the contact theory, they found that only when contact is personal and cooperative does prejudice decrease.\n\nIn order to reduce the negative feelings brought about by cognitive dissonance, people may engage in response amplification. Response amplification is defined by engaging in a more extreme response to a stigmatized individual in comparison to a similar but non-stigmatized individual than the situation calls for. This can include overdoing both positive responses and negative responses depending on whether the situation calls for a positive or negative response.\n\nFor example, whites' evaluations of Blacks who are presented positively or negatively tend to be more extreme than evaluations of similar white individuals. Hass et al. (1991) had White students participate in an experiment where the student worked with either a white or black confederate to complete a task. The confederate, instructed by the experimenter, caused either the failure or successful achievement of the task. After the task, the white students rated the confederate’s performance. Those who scored higher in ambivalence rated the black confederate more positively in the success condition but more negatively in the failure condition than the white confederate. David Bell and Victoria Esses (2002) conducted a study indicated that this response amplification only occurs when one believes that the ambivalent response is problematic. When ambivalent white Canadian students were given essays that emphasized the positivity or negativity of ambivalence (considering both the good and bad in a situation or person), only those in the negative condition engaged in response amplification.\n\nIn addition to racial contexts, response amplification has been found in multiple contexts including in cases of able bodied people interacting with disabled individuals, women and men rating members of the opposite sex, and ratings of female feminists.\n\nLeippe and Eisenstadt found that dissonance mediated changed may be more successful when an internal conflict already exists, that is, when individuals possess cognitive dissonance that can be a result of ambivalence. In three experiments, whites were encouraged to write essays regarding scholarship policies that would favor blacks. Writing the essay led to a more positive perception of the policy, as well as, in some cases, more positive attitudes towards blacks in general. Ambivalent people were more likely to comply with writing a positive essay than non ambivalent people. As a result of writing the essay, participants felt cognitive dissonance which led them to engage in a sort of cognitive restructuring to further reduce the dissonance. This meant engaging in more extended thinking that led to more positive beliefs about Blacks in general as well as about the specific policy. By inducing compliance in writing, they were able to induce a change in attitudes toward the target group.\n\nFiske suggests several methods to mitigate ambivalent prejudice particularly in the context of business management. These methods mainly involve an increased awareness and recognition of the different types of prejudice. She states that not all prejudices are alike, but they do create predictable groups of stereotypes, emotional prejudices, and discriminatory tendencies. When working to counteract prejudice, the focus should be on the most stereotypically negative aspect for a group, for example, competence for older people. In addition, constructive contact, that involving cooperation and equal status in the setting, for example, between groups improves emotional intelligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "26051134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051134", "title": "Apodemica", "text": "Apodemica\n\nArs Apodemica is travel advice literature which was significant in the period between the mid-16th and the late 18th century. \n\nTravelling was becoming more and more a widespread practice, so the need was felt of guidance for future travellers. Ars Apodemica writings gave also guidelines on how to systematise the knowledge acquired by travelling, in order to benefit the learned community (the Respublica Literarum). These writings (several hundred in number) can be read as milestones in the formation of modern scientific methodology, but also as discourses on social practices of the period (e.g. the Grand Tour).\n\n"}
{"id": "15237281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15237281", "title": "Archives of Ontario", "text": "Archives of Ontario\n\nThe Archives of Ontario () are the archives for the province of Ontario, Canada. Founded in 1903 as the Bureau of Archives, the archives are now under the responsibility of the Ministry of Government and Consumer Services. The main offices of the archive are located at York University in Toronto.\n\nThe Bureau of Archives, as it was originally known, was first located in the Ontario Legislative Building. The Archives moved to the Canadiana Building (14 Queen's Park Crescent West) on the University of Toronto campus in 1951, at which time it was known as the Department of Archives. Relocated to 77 Grenville Street in 1972 its name was also changed to the Archives of Ontario. The reading room at the Grenville building closed on March 26, 2009.\n\nThe official groundbreaking ceremony for the new Archives of Ontario building on the York University grounds, which also houses the York University Research Tower, was on April 30, 2007. The groundbreaking was attended by former Minister of Government Services Gerry Phillips and former York University President and Vice-Chancellor Lorna Marsden. The building was opened to the public on April 2, 2009 and is expected to be the site of the Archives for at least the next thirty-five years.\n\nIn addition to the records of the Ontario government, the Archives also acquires records of private individuals and organizations that reflect Ontario's history. Notable private records include the fonds of Eaton's, Conn Smythe, and Moriyama and Teshima Architects.\n\nThe head of the Archives has been known as the Archivist of Ontario since 1923, prior to that they were known as the Provincial Archivist.\n"}
{"id": "4848252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848252", "title": "Arthur Corbin Gould", "text": "Arthur Corbin Gould\n\nArthur Corbin Gould (1850–1903) was an avid shooter and member of the Massachusetts Rifle Association. He published \"The Rifle\" [Riling 1160] in 1885. \"The Rifle\" was the forerunner to the official publication of the National Rifle Association \"The Rifleman\", later \"American Rifleman\". Mr. Gould later authored \"The Modern American Pistol and Revolver, including a description of modern pistols and revolvers of American make; ammunition used in these arms; results accomplished; and shooting rules followed by American marksmen\" as well as \"Modern American Rifles\". The former was the first English-language book devoted to pistol shooting. \n\n\nReferences are to Ray Riling, \"Guns and Shooting, a Bibliography,\" New York: Greenberg, 1951.\n"}
{"id": "49352531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49352531", "title": "Austrian Film Museum", "text": "Austrian Film Museum\n\nThe Austrian Film Museum (German: Österreichisches Filmmuseum) is a film archive and museum located in Vienna, Austria. It was founded by Peter Konlechner and Peter Kubelka in 1964 as a non-profit organization.\n\nThe collection comprises approximately 31,000 films from 1893 to the present and all genres. \n\nFounded in 1964 by Peter Konlechner and film artist Peter Kubelka, the Austrian Film Museum aimed to preserve films and present them to the public, affirming what they thought to be the two roles of film: \"as the most important form of artistic expression in modernity and as the chief historiographical source of the 20th century.\" This effort was financially supported through the Austrian government as well as the City of Vienna. Private sponsors alongside the membership and admission fees have kept the establishment functioning. Within a year’s time of its inception, the Austrian Film Museum was inducted as a member of the International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF). Films preserved in the Austrian Film Museum were shown to the public in the museum’s own cinema, located in the Albertina building behind Vienna’s State Opera. In 1989, the “Invisible Cinema,” based on a concept of Peter Kubelka, allowed for viewers of films to be completely focused and concentrated on the viewing and listening of films. As of November 2002, the Austrian Film Museum has installed contemporary film and sound equipment to aid in the viewing of these historical films.\n\nFrom its inception, Konlechner and Kubleka remained as the co-directors until the end of 2001, when both retired. The role of director was then passed onto Alexander Horwarth. This job was then taken over by Michael Leobenstein on October 1, 2017.\n\nThe board now consists of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "563208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563208", "title": "Barbara Hepworth Museum", "text": "Barbara Hepworth Museum\n\nThe Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden in St Ives, Cornwall preserves the 20th-century sculptor Barbara Hepworth's studio and garden much as they were when she lived and worked there. She purchased the site in 1949 and lived and worked there for 26 years until her death in a fire on the premises in 1975.\n\nThe studio, known as Trewyn Studio, was purchased by Barbara Hepworth in 1949, and is typical of the stone-built houses in St Ives. Her living room is furnished as she left it, while the workshop remains full of her tools and equipment, materials, and part-worked pieces. The museum was opened by her family in 1976, after Barbara had left instructions to this effect in her will. It is the largest collection of her works that are on permanent display.\n\nThe sculptures featured at the museum (mainly in the secluded garden) were some of her favourites. Her workshop also includes a queue of uncut stones that one visitor has described as \"still waiting for their moment in the shadow of her workshop\". In 1950 she acquired two huge blocks of Galway limestone which she carved into her Festival of Britain commission, the Contrapuntal Forms. A set of photographs in the museum shows the progress of this project. Wood carving was done in an upstairs room, and the bronze statues she started casting in 1956 had their origins in the plaster prototypes she worked on in the upper of the two outside studios.\n\nShe was helped in the creation of the garden by her friend, the South African-born composer Priaulx Rainier.\n\nBarbara Hepworth died in a fire at this site in 1975, when she was aged 72.\n\nThe family passed the museum to the Tate gallery in 1980 and they still manage it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57775021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57775021", "title": "Britannica Malayalam Encyclopedia", "text": "Britannica Malayalam Encyclopedia\n\nBritannica Malayalam Encyclopedia (also known as \"Malayalam Britannica\" and \"Malayalam Encyclopedia\") is a reference work in the Malayalam language. Its content is in large part a translation of the \"Britannica Concise Encyclopædia\".\n\nWhile it won an award from the Federation of Indian Publishers in 2004, a Consumer Court banned the sale of the book because it was found to be an erroneous reference with many factual errors. The court also found that there was unfair trade practice on the part of the publishers, which are DC Books, Kerala and Encyclopædia Britannica India Pvt.Ltd, a subsidiary of Encyclopædia Britannica Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "28085289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28085289", "title": "British Association of Picture Libraries and Agencies", "text": "British Association of Picture Libraries and Agencies\n\nBAPLA is the trade association of UK based photographic image suppliers, commercial picture libraries and agencies.\n\nThe association was formed in 1975 with founding members: Ardea Photographics, Aspect Picture Library, BBC Picture Library, Black Star Publishing Co., Camera Press Ltd, Bruce Coleman Ltd, Colorific Photo Library, Colour Library International, Feature Pix Colour Library, Susan Griggs Agency, Robert Harding Picture Library, Keystone Press Agency, Frank Lane Photographic Agency, Pictor International Ltd, Picturepoint Ltd, Popper Photo Library, Spectrum Colour Library, Tony Stone Associates and Transworld Features.\n\nIt is situated on \"Tranquil Vale\" in Blackheath near Blackheath railway station on the B212.\n\nBAPLA is steered by an elected voluntary Executive Committee of seven officers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3847715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3847715", "title": "Certificate of authenticity", "text": "Certificate of authenticity\n\nA certificate of authenticity (COA) is a seal or small sticker on a proprietary computer program, t-shirt, jersey, or any other memorabilia or art work, especially in the world of computers and sports, it is commonly a seal on paper authenticating a specific art work which and is made to demonstrate that the item is authentic. Computer COAs have a license number on them, which verifies that the program is a genuine, legal copy. Art work or posters come with a certificate of authenticity signed and sealed by a reputable appraiser or auction house.\n\nCOAs are mostly common in the art world. Generally speaking, a valid COA for an artwork will include specific details about the artwork like when and how it was produced, the names of people or companies involved in the artwork's production, the work's exact title, the dimensions of the art, and the names of reference books, magazines, or similar resources that contain either specific or related information about either that work of art or the artist. The COA should also state the qualifications and full contact information of the individual or entity that authored the certificate with his or her complete and current contact information. COAs have been a target of much controversy due to online auction sites where sellers are providing fake Certificates of Authenticity to market or sell their art works. The details below identify how to tell the difference and best practices for consumers to identify a real certificate from a fake.\n\nCOA's are commonly used on internet auction sites in order to provide \"proof\" that the signature on a signed item is genuine. However it is widely acknowledged that most of these COA's have simply been produced by fraudulent sellers in order to encourage the buyer to buy fake items. In almost all cases these COA's are worthless and have no traceability. It has been shown that around 90% of the COA's issued by these sellers do not even have the contact details of the person selling the item, or if they do they are often incorrect or have an address of a company that has long since disappeared.\n\nAny COA is of no value at all unless it has the full contact details of the issuer. It is an offence under the Fraud Act 2006 (section 7) to create or use a COA in the sale of an autograph or similar item. \"A person is guilty of an offence if he makes, adapts, supplies or offers to supply any article—\n\"(a)knowing that it is designed or adapted for use in the course of or in connection with fraud, or\n(b)intending it to be used to commit, or assist in the commission of, fraud.\"\nIn other words, if the seller is offering fakes with a COA, then he/she is committing more than one offence, and the offence of issuing a COA alone is a possible 12-month prison sentence.\n\n"}
{"id": "152368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152368", "title": "Christian views on magic", "text": "Christian views on magic\n\nChristian views on magic vary widely among denominations and among individuals. Some Christians actively condemn any form of magic as satanic, holding that it opens the way for demonic possession. Others simply dismiss it as superstition. Conversely, some branches of esoteric Christianity actively engage in magical practices.\n\nThere are several references to witchcraft in the Bible that strongly condemn such practices. For example, condemns anyone who \"..casts spells, or who is a medium or spiritist or who consults the dead. Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord, and because of these detestable practices the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you\", and states \"Do not allow a sorceress to live\".\n\nSome adherents of near-east religions acted as mediums, channeling messages from the dead or from a familiar spirit. The Bible sometimes is translated as referring to \"necromancer\" and \"necromancy\" (). However, some lexicographers, including James Strong and Spiros Zodhiates, disagree. These scholars say that the Hebrew word \"kashaph\", used in Exodus 22:18 and 5 other places in the Tanakh comes from a root meaning \"to whisper\". Strong therefore concludes that the word means \"to whisper a spell, \"i.e.\" to incant or practice magic\". The Contemporary English Version translates as referring to \"any kind of magic\".\n\nThe Apostle Paul's Epistle to the Galatians includes sorcery in a list of \"works of the flesh\". This disapproval is echoed in the \"Didache\", a very early book of church discipline which dates from the mid-late first century.\n\nDuring the Early Middle Ages, the Christian Churches did not conduct witch trials. The Germanic Council of Paderborn in 785 explicitly outlawed the very belief in witches, and the Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne later confirmed the law. Among Orthodox Eastern Christians concentrated in the Byzantine Empire, belief in witchcraft was widely regarded as \"deisidaimonia\"—superstition—and by the 9th and 10th centuries in the Latin Christian West, belief in witchcraft had begun to be seen as heresy.\n\nHowever, towards the end of the Middle Ages and the beginning of the early modern period (post-Reformation), belief in witchcraft became more popular and witches were seen as directly in league with the Devil. This marked the beginning of a period of witch hunts among early Protestants which lasted about 200 years, and in some countries, particularly in North-Western Europe, thousands of people were accused of witchcraft and sentenced to death.\n\nThe Inquisition within the Roman Catholic Church had conducted trials against supposed witches in the 13th century, but these trials were to punish heresy, of which belief in witchcraft was merely one variety. Inquisitorial courts only became systematically involved in the witch-hunt during the 15th century: in the case of the Madonna Oriente, the Inquisition of Milan was not sure what to do with two women who in 1384 and in 1390 confessed to have participated in a type of white magic.\n\nNot all Inquisitorial courts acknowledged witchcraft. For example, in 1610 as the result of a witch hunting craze the Suprema (the ruling council of the Spanish Inquisition) gave everybody an Edict of Grace (during which confessing witches were \"not\" to be punished) and put the only dissenting inquisitor, Alonso de Salazar Frías, in charge of the subsequent investigation. The results of Salazar's investigation was that the Spanish Inquisition did not bother witches ever again though they still went after heretics and Crypto-Jews.\n\nMartin Luther shared some of the views about witchcraft that were common in his time. When interpreting Exodus 22:18, he stated that, with the help of the devil, witches could steal milk merely by thinking of a cow. In his Small Catechism he taught that witchcraft was a sin against the second commandment and prescribed the Biblical penalty for it in a \"table talk\":\n\nOn 25 August 1538 there was much discussion about witches and sorceresses who poisoned chicken eggs in the nests, or poisoned milk and butter. Doctor Luther said: \"One should show no mercy to these [women]; I would burn them myself, for we read in the Law that the priests were the ones to begin the stoning of criminals.\"\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, belief in the powers of witches and sorcerers to harm began to die out in the West. But the reasons for disbelief differed from those of early Christians. For the early Christians the reason was theological—that Christ had already defeated the powers of evil. For the post-Enlightenment Christians, the disbelief was based on a belief in rationalism and empiricism.\n\nIt was at this time, however, that Western Christianity began expanding to parts of Africa and Asia where premodern worldviews still held sway, and where belief in the power of witches and sorcerers to harm was, if anything, stronger than it had been in Northern Europe. Many African Independent Churches developed their own responses to witchcraft and sorcery.\n\nThe situation was further complicated by the rise of new religious movements that considered witchcraft to be a religion. This view does not claim that witches actually consciously enter into a pact with Satan because Satan is not believed to exist in Wicca and other modern neo-pagan witchcraft practices.\n\nSeveral Christian groups continue to believe in witchcraft and view it as a negative force. Much of the criticism originates among Evangelical Christian groups, especially those of a fundamentalist tendency, who believe that witchcraft is a danger to children. The 2006 documentary \"Jesus Camp\", which depicts the life of young children attending Becky Fischer's summer camp, shows Fischer condemning the \"Harry Potter\" novels and telling the students that \"Warlocks are enemies of God\" (see also Religious debates over the \"Harry Potter\" series). While Fischer's summer camp has sometimes been incorrectly identified as Pentecostal, Fischer is most closely associated with the neo-Pentecostal movement known as the New Apostolic Reformation. NAR prophet Lou Engle, who serves in the NAR apostolic group The Apostolic Council of Prophetic Elders, makes an extended appearance in \"Jesus Camp\".\n\nAmong Christian tendencies, the NAR is especially aggressive in efforts to counter alleged acts of witchcraft; the NAR's globally distributed \"Transformations\" pseudo-documentaries by filmmaker George Otis, Jr. show charismatic Christians creating mini-utopias by driving off \"territorial spirits\" and by banishing or even killing accused witches. During the 2008 United States presidential election, footage surfaced from a 2005 church ceremony in which a NAR apostle, Kenyan bishop Thomas Muthee, called upon God to protect Sarah Palin, as Muthee laid hands on Palin, from \"every form of witchcraft\".\n\nIn 2009, Pope Benedict XVI denounced belief in witchcraft during a visit to Angola.\n\nModern Christian views vary as to whether witchcraft is a \"general\" term for communion with evil, or a \"specific\" form of religious system and practice. Christians often espouse the idea that Satan and evil are real, while condemning accusations of witchcraft found throughout history as dubious.\n\nMagic in literature, while condemned by some Christians, is often viewed by Christians as non-evil. The key distinction would be between real-life magic and pretend magic. This view holds that in real life, practice of supernatural abilities (i.e. magic) must have a supernatural power source or origin, which would be either holy or evil. Thus born of Holy Spirit or of demons. (See Spiritual gift and Christian demonology for details on these teachings.) Thus, magic in the Biblical context would be viewed as only an act of evil, whereas in literature, pretend magic is a morally neutral tool available to conduct both good and bad behaviors.\n\nIn literature, magical abilities have many different power sources. Technological ability (science) can appear as magic. Often, wielding magic is accomplished by imposing one's will by concentration and/or use of devices to control an external magical force. This explanation is offered for the Force in \"Star Wars\", magic in \"Dungeons and Dragons\", and magic in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\". The latter two works are by notable Christians, C. S. Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien, respectively. In the first chronological book of \"The Chronicles of Narnia\", \"The Magician's Nephew\", Lewis specifically explains that magic is a power available on other worlds, not on Earth. The Empress Jadis (later, the White Witch) was tempted to use magic for selfish reasons to retain control of her world Charn, which ultimately lead to the destruction of life there.\n\nFrom 15th to 19th century, many Hermeticists combined Christianity with occult practices (mostly alchemy). Another notable example of syncretism is Santería, a syncretic hybrid of African animism and Christianity. There are also those who practice a combination of Neopagan/Wiccan and Christian beliefs. Other modern syncretic traditions include mesoamerican folk healing traditions, such as the \"curandisimo\" practices found in Mexico, and Andean folk healing traditions of Peru and Bolivia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15890992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15890992", "title": "Chronicle of San Juan de la Peña", "text": "Chronicle of San Juan de la Peña\n\nThe Chronicle of San Juan de la Peña (or Crónica pinatense) is an Aragonese chronicle written in Latin around before 1359 in the monastery of San Juan de la Peña at the behest of Peter IV of Aragon. It was the first general history of Aragon and was probably designed both to justify the royal prerogatives of the Crown of Aragon against the baronage and to match the comparable Castilian work of a century earlier, the \"Estoria de España\". Between 1369 and 1372, Navarro-Aragonese and Catalan translations were produced.\n\nThe \"Chronicle\" is a compilation from various sources, some more historically solid than others. Though named after the monastery of San Juan, it was only partially compiled there. As early as 1345 Peter IV had asked the monasteries of San Juan and Ripoll to begin compiling material for a general history of the realm. Ripoll's only contribution was a version of the 1162 \"Gesta comitum Barchinonensium\" updated to 1310. Only those sections (approximate a third) dealing with events specific to the monastery were probably written in it. The monks of San Juan relied heavily for the history of Spain up to 1137 on \"De rebus Hispaniae\", the work of the Navarrese Rodrigo Jiménez de Rada. The materials compiled at Ripoll and San Juan were eventually sent to Barcelona to be worked together. A finished copy of the work was sent by the king to the Cathedral of Valencia in 1372 and this original still resides in the cathedral library.\n\nA modern Spanish translation by Antonio Ubieto Arteta appeared in 1964, an English translation by Lynn H. Nelson in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "1357052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1357052", "title": "Comparison of Linux distributions", "text": "Comparison of Linux distributions\n\nTechnical variations of Linux distributions include support for different hardware devices and systems or software package configurations. Organizational differences may be motivated by historical reasons. Other criteria include security, including how quickly security upgrades are available; ease of package management; and number of packages available.\n\nThese tables compare each active and noteworthy distribution's latest stable release on wide-ranging objective criteria. It does not cover each operating system's subjective merits, branches marked as unstable or beta, nor compare Linux distributions with other operating systems.\n\nBasic general information about the distributions: creator or producer, release date, the latest version, and such. References are not added here but can be found in respective articles.\n\nLinux distributions endorsed by the Free Software Foundation are marked 100% Free under the System distribution commitment column.\n\nThe table below shows the default file system, but many Linux distributions support some or all of ext2, ext3, ext4, Btrfs, ReiserFS, Reiser4, JFS, XFS, GFS2, OCFS2, and NILFS. It is possible to install Linux onto most of these file systems. The ext file systems, namely ext2, ext3, and ext4 are based on the original Linux file system.\n\nFile systems have been developed by companies to meet their specific needs, by hobbyists, or adapted from Unix, Microsoft Windows, and other operating systems. Linux has full support for XFS and JFS, FAT (the DOS file system), and HFS, the main file system for the Macintosh. Support for Microsoft Windows NT's NTFS file system has been developed and is now comparable with other native Unix file systems. CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray discs' ISO 9660 and Universal Disk Format (UDF) are supported.\n\nUnlike other operating systems, Linux and Unix allow any file system regardless of the medium it is stored on, whether that medium is a magnetic disk, an optical disk (CD, DVD, etc.), a USB flash memory key, or even contained within a file located on another file system. Similarly, many C compilers (mainly GNU Compiler Collection (GCC)), init systems (mainly sysvinit), desktop environments and window managers are widely supported.\n\nLinux kernel portability to instruction set architectures other than x86, was an early feature added to the kernel.\nInformation on features in the distributions. Package numbers are only approximate. Some distributions like Debian tend to separate tools into different packages - usually stable release, development release, documentation and debug. Also counting the source package number varies. For debian and rpm based entries it is just the base to produce binary packages, so the total number of packages is the number of binary packages. For arch based entries, it is additional. E.g. Arch Linux provides 11'000 + 47'000 packages, i.e. 58'000 packages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2647692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2647692", "title": "Coping With", "text": "Coping With\n\nThe \"Coping With\" series of books is a series of books aimed at 11- to 16-year-olds, written by Peter Corey and published by Scholastic Hippo. The first book, \"Coping with Parents\", was released in 1989, and the series continued until 2000, with the last book being \"Coping with Cash\". The books take a humorous look at issues which affect teenagers and how to cope with these issues. The books are all generally built using the same basic structure:\n\n\nThe titles in the series, in order, are:\n\nThe books success led to, in 1994, a one-off television special on Channel 4 called \"Coping with Grown-ups\", shown as part of Channel 4's \"Look Who's Talking\" strand, featuring shows made by children. This was followed by \"Coping With Christmas\" in 1995, and a 6-part series across the 1997-1998 new year: \"Holidays\", \"School\", \"Cool\", \"Relatives\", \"Girls\", \"Boys\". These won multiple awards, including a BAFTA.\n\n"}
{"id": "3810674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810674", "title": "County Court judgment", "text": "County Court judgment\n\nIn England and Wales, County Court judgments (CCJs) are legal decisions handed down by the County Court. Judgments for monetary sums are entered on the statutory Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines, which is checked by credit reference agencies to assess the credit-worthiness of individuals.\n\nAn alleged debtor is sent postal notification of an impending County Court case, and has fourteen days to respond, by paying the money, admitting owing a smaller sum, denying owing it, or going to a court hearing. If there is no response judgement will be granted against the debtor.\n\nIf the debtor does not make payment in response to a CCJ, the creditor may apply for a charging order, which would secure the debt on a property. Creditors can also apply for an attachment of earnings which would oblige the debtor's employer to deduct monies from their salary and send them to the court. A third-party debt order would oblige a third party who holds money belonging to the debtor (for example a bank) to pay the debt. It is also possible to have the court appoint a County Court bailiff to collect the debt. A bailiff is an official of the court who has some powers to seize goods and sell them at auction to settle a debt.\n\nOnce a CCJ has been entered, if not paid in full within thirty days it is kept on record for six years by the register and credit reference agencies (CRAs); there is no way to expunge the record of a correctly granted CCJ, although later payment will be recorded. The record is removed after six years. The Office of Fair Trading warned about credit repair companies that offer, for a fee, quick-fix schemes purported to remove a file from the CCJ register. In some cases a CCJ is made against someone who did not receive the notification of the court case, often due to it being sent to an incorrect or former address, and is not aware of the judgement; this may lead to unexpected refusal of credit. Checking of the Register or CRA records will find such cases.\n\nThe records can be checked by anybody on payment of a small fee. When a person applies for credit or finance, potential creditors normally check CRA records, refusing applicants considered to have a bad credit history; a CCJ on record makes it much more difficult to obtain finance through the normal channels. Some lenders will lend to people with CCJs against them, but usually on unfavourable terms, e.g. through a very expensive payday loan.\n\nIf regular payments to the court are being made this is recorded on the credit file in addition to the record of the CCJ, and goes some way to lessen the negative credit rating impact. Once the full amount owed is repaid the CCJ is marked as 'satisfied', but remains on file. The record of a CCJ which is satisfied within one month can be removed altogether on application to the Register (and hence the CRAs).\n\n"}
{"id": "56856826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56856826", "title": "Dictionary of Science, Literature and Art", "text": "Dictionary of Science, Literature and Art\n\nThe Dictionary of Science, Literature and Art was a single-volume reference work published in the mid-19th century by Longman's in the United Kingdom and by Harper Bros. in the United States. At the time it was considered a highly successful compendium of general but scholarly information. It was part of a trend toward cheaper, smaller reference works targeted at the middle and working classes.\n\nThe first edition was published in 1842 with 1352 pages. It was reprinted in 1845, 1847, 1848 and 1851. A second, revised edition was published in 1852 in 1423 pages. It was expand to three volumes in 1866. The final edition was published in 1875 in three volumes.\n\nThe original editor in chief William Thomas Brande and associate editor was Joseph Cauvin. Upon Brandes death in 1866, Sir George William Cox took over as editor.\n\nIn the United States, the first ed. was reprinted by Harpers in the US in 1844.\n\nHarper's later published a successor called \"Harper's book of facts\" in 1895 with an updated edition in 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "1932677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932677", "title": "El Coyote (character)", "text": "El Coyote (character)\n\nEl Coyote (the Coyote) is the name of a fictional character very similar to Zorro (El Zorro), the Fox, although acting several years later (when California had transformed to be a part of the United States' \"Wild West\"). He first appeared in a Spanish \"\" (\"Stories of the West\") Number 9 pulp novel in 1943, written by Carter Mulford, one of several pseudonyms of the successful Spanish author (1913-1972) from Barcelona. The novel was issued by the Spanish publishing house . Mallorquí now started writing a series of extremely popular novels, with the character \"\" in the head role, for . Between September 1944 and late 1953 the hero appeared in a series of 192 pulp-like EL COYOTE novels, with several revival editions throughout the years. They covered 30 years of chronological adventures from 1851 (and earlier) until around 1876, or possibly later (the original Cliper novels were not published in strict chronological order). Cover illustrators were not always identical to inside illustrators.\nThe novels (a Cliper edition already in 1947) - and the comics - were also glued in nice collections and sold in hardbound \"limited bookform\" (Forum had one with all its novels, and also one with the comics).\n\n\nCalifornia was incorporated into the US in 1848 as a result of the Mexican–American War 1846–1848 (after some turbulent years as part of Mexico and even twice as a short-lived independent republic), and registered as the 31st State of the United States in 1850.\n\nCésar de Echagüe (the III – with Mexican and Spanish roots) was a wealthy, elegant Californio nobleman, resident at the large 40.000 hectare (100.000 acres) ranch, Rancho San Antonio, just north-east of Los Angeles. He had an affable, charming appearance – lazy, comfortable, cynical and sceptic, and with false superficiality. He was educated and refined, a master of expression, and a practical, pragmatic man. Behind his facade he doubled as El Coyote, a masked vigilante hero and defender of the weak – fighting for freedom, honesty and justice. Coyote protected the original Hispanics (and the native Indians) of California from the Anglo Americans, and certainly from all \"bad ones\". Mallorquí did address the Afro American question only briefly.\n\nThe stories continued the mythical traditions of Robin Hood, Dick Turpin, and The Scarlet Pimpernel – published in 1905, which was the very first popular novel with the \"double identity\" plot. Dime novel detective Nick Carter debuted in 1886. Tarzan was introduced in 1912, and Zorro found its way to the public in 1919, but El Coyote became even bigger – in Spain. Among other early famous, often masked American novel and/or radio heroes were The Shadow, debuting 1930 (and 1931), plus The Phantom Detective, Doc Savage, The Spider and Lone Ranger in 1933, and Green Hornet in 1936. Some of the very early comic strip superheroes were Buck Rogers introduced in 1928, Dick Tracy 1931, and Flash Gordon in 1934. The most famous comic book (or strip) hero is Superman originated in 1933 (and commercially published in 1938). In 1934 Mandrake debuted, and in 1936 the Phantom comic strip (The Phantom). Batman and the original Captain Marvel entered in 1939. Captain America and the originals of The Flash, Green Lantern and Daredevil made their debuts in 1940. Wonder Woman, Blackhawk and Green Arrow debuted in 1941, and in 1947 Black Canary entered the scene.\n\nCoyote wore a black (mostly illustrated as dark blue, also in the comics – and sometimes brown) Mexican, decorated charro costume. He had high black boots (mostly outside the trousers) and a decorated sombrero, a black shirt – neither blue nor red – although most drawings show a white shirt (on the Scandinan covers blue), with a black (sometimes shown as red or blue) silk scarf or a red tie. He also had a broad black silk belt (sometimes illustrated as a red silk one – although mostly as an American brown belt), plus two holstered revolvers hanging low on a \"double\" ammunition belt. Some illustrations show only one revolver with ammunition belt and holster – others two revolvers on one holster. He also had a knife – and a rifle, a lasso and a Mexican sarape on his horse – and he wore gloves. The mask covered more of his upper face than shown on most of the fine drawings by Francisco Batet (and especially by several others). The Scandinavian covers presented a relatively large mask (illustrated by Harald Damsleth). In at least one of the early pulps Mallorquí wrote he wore \"Mexican peasant clothes\" (black – shown brown on some early illustrations). Coyote had two \"marks\" – one was shooting at an ear lobe of his villains, one was a drawing of a wolf's head on messages.\n\nThe novel series mostly comprised the years from December 1851 (and with Cliper number 6 from early 1865) to around 1875. Published in Spain, they originally consisted of 120 volumes 1944–1951 – the last titled \"Alias el Coyote\" in March 1951. The novels were not always strictly chronological. One example was the 1850/1852 (extended, 6 pesetas) story \"El diablo, Murrieta y el Coyote\", Cliper novel number 100. The original novel number 115, \"El hogar de los valientes\", and its sequel, takes us back to around 1855, before Jr. was born. There was also the very late \"La gloria de don Goyo\" (which told a story of April 1865 – late civil war era soon after César's \"second arrival\" in Los Angeles, where the Bella Union and Fort Moore were two frequently featured establishments in the novels). A late original Cliper novel, the six-year-celebration novel \"La casa de los Valdez\" and its sequel, told a story César picked up in Spain in 1857 about César I (his grandfather arriving in California in 1767 – the story begins and ends in 1872 at home at the San Antonio ranch). Simultaneously published were 10 Numero Extra (1945–1946), including a reedited version of the original 1943 pulp \"El Coyote\" (issued as Edicion Cliper Extra #0 in 1945) and the Especial of 1946 noted below (no numbering at all). The Extras told stories of pre-1851, early (and also late) 1850s and mid/late 1860s. Later came 62 \"reformed\" Nuevo Coyote (still on Cliper 1951–1953) – the first published in mid 1951 (\"Vuelve el Coyote\") and telling later, new stories – some intervening in the old chronology (some relating to 1872) – and with a pocket size, turning from 19,7x14,7 cm and 64 pages to 15,5x10,7 cm and 128 pages. The last Nuevo Coyote was titled \"Los asesinos llegan a Monterrey\", aka El Coyote \"Los asesinos van a Monterrey\".\n\nThe early \"Coyote\" novels were published in 16 countries in nine different languages. Italy published all 192, often with the same covers as Cliper and with the later ones (with non-Cliper covers) illustrated by Emilio Uberti (and especially Sergio Tarquinio inside). Germany published 84 novels, mostly with Batet's original Cliper illustrations – plus reeditions (different publishers) with new illustrators. Finland had , mostly with Batet illustrations. The original editions in Norway, Denmark and Sweden (with no illustration inside) often had identical covers (special unique ones made for these three countries 18x12 cm). The illustrations on the Scandinavian editions, by Harald Damsleth, are by many ranked as the finest. Only one of the Cliper cover illustrations was \"recycled\" in Scandinavia – the original Cliper cover of \"Huracán sobre Monterrey\" was \"covered\" by Damsleth in the Swedish (and Norwegian) versions of \"Plomo en una estrella\", which actually was a circa 1874 story, featuring the father and his grown-up son in San Lorenzo Valley (fictional Farish City), not fitting chronologically with the other later Swedish novels. Brazil, often Batet and Bernal covers (but also several others), published all novels in different editions, except for the high-ranked (extended, 6 pesetas) Extra-Especial on the elder \"Don César de Echagüe\".\n\n\nAlthough the Extras, numbered 0-8, and the Extra-Especial (no number at all – 6 pesetas) on Ediciones Cliper – all issued during the very first years (1945–46) – did not have any of the other first 120 novels' issue numbers, they have later \"entered\" the 192 numbering – just like the \"Nuevo Coyote\" series (which was originally numbered 1-62 on Cliper).\n\nCésar was born in Los Angeles (originally called \"el Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles\"), which he left around late 1843 for Mexico and later Havana (Cuba) to study and \"become a man\". He \"officially\" returned in December 1851, described in the very first novel, \"El Coyote\", although operating as El Coyote in California several times before that, secretly leaving Mexico during his years abroad.\n\nIn Mallorquí's first novel, \"El Coyote\", one can trace that César must have been born around 1827 (the novel says he was 25 by his arrival in Los Angeles in late 1851, probably via el Rio Porciuncúla. One can read about Coyote's debut in \"La primera aventura del Coyote\". an early Extra novel, where César was inspired by a masked female actress and by the Zorro legend when he started operating as El Coyote. Coyote later told his son, \"El Cuervo\", in the stories on César Jr's adventures of late 1972 (when Jr was around 17 years old), that \"El Coyote\" debuted even younger than his son, long before aged 20.\n\nCoyote's father, who had experienced the turbulent years of Spanish and Mexican California, was Don César de Echagüe (II), who found out Coyote's true identity just prior to his death soon after César's first marriage. César's sister Beatriz (aka Beatrice) was born in 1833 - she married Washington resident, political employee and member of the U.S. government, Edmond Greene (aka Edmonds or Edmons, nicknamed Edmondo), who spoke fluent Spanish. Edmond found out Coyote's true identity in late 1851 - and Beatriz probably a bit later. They settled in Washington in 1853 (although later often visiting California). César's first wife Leonor de Acevedo (aka Leonora/Leonore) was born around 1830 (on yet another big ranch nearby San Antonio - and was betrothed to César already as a child). She became aware of Coyote's double identity by the end of the very first written novel. They married in 1852 during an almost two years period of Coyote retirement. She died around 1856, when César Jr was born. Jr called himself El Cuervo (no mask), the Raven, from around late 1872 - although he later abandoned it. César (Coyote) left Los Angeles again directly after his wife's death (even travelling to Europe and Spain) for several years (handing over the child-care to maiden Guadalupe Martinez).\n\nCésar was abroad again (Europe this time) during 1857-early 1865. Long before his official return in the spring of 1865 César secretly worked as Coyote, and outside California as unmasked José Martinez, after only a few years abroad - one adventure was specifically dated 1859, \"La sombra del Coyote\" (with a preface of 1849). At least for a while during the civil war (1861–65) César secretly worked as a neutral Union (northern) Commander at a San Carlos, San Diego fortress under the alias of \"Delharty\" (shortly before his second return to L.A. in early 1865 - encouraged by Edmond Greene to return home), working to keep California out of the war, helping both northernness and southernness in \"El Capataz del Ocaso\" and its sequels (where César looks back from the mid 1870s to the last year of the war). César Jr was reported eight years of age in 1865. Guadalupe was nicknamed Lupe/Lupita (aka Guadelupe). She was the daughter of Julian (aka Julián) Martinez, Coyote's very first close allied (from 1851) and chief servant (and foreman) at César's father Don César's ranch. Julian died just prior to Guadalupe's marriage. Lupe was born in 1835 and married César around late 1870 - in \"El Diablo en Los Angeles\". She and Julian had known of César's double identity from very early on - Julian was told by Coyote (probably even before 1851 - and Lupe found out by \"accidental coincidence\" in 1853 - \"La vuelta del \"Coyote\"\"). César's and Lupe's child Leonorin was born in 1871 - and fosterchild Eduardito (Gómez de la Mata) that same year (in \"Rapto\"). Guadalupe later became de Torres (Julian's real name) and suddenly - in early/mid 1872 (\"El código del Coyote\" and its sequels) - was even much richer than César, inheriting a huge ranch (Rancho del Todo) in Coahuila in north Mexico, where she had to spend several months each year with her daughter (the formal heiress) to claim her rights. Around 1874 she gave birth to a son (\"Apostando su vida\", original novel N° 87).\n\nCoyote had some interesting early allies (friends). Among the first (besides Julian) were the Lugones brothers - los Lugones - Juan, Timoteo, Evilio, and Leocadio (originally four, but Leo died early) and the old Indian woman Adelia (aka Adela). They helped Coyote from the very first beginning through all the years, and did not know about Coyote's real identity. Two other characters, though, knew - Ricardo Yesares and Matias Alberes. Yesares (from Paso Robles in San Luis Obispo), Coyote's sub/double throughout the years from 1865 (who Coyote had saved from \"unfair\" hanging that year) debuted in \"El otro \"Coyote\"\", ediciones Cliper number 6 - the first adventure of Coyote's \"second arrival\". Ricardo was born around 1839/40, and married Serena Morales in Los Angeles in 1866, where he had become the owner of Posada (hotel) del Rey Don Carlos III (Coyote's new and \"secret headquarters\"). Coyote's closest allied from 1865 was César's servant (and \"bodyguard\"), the dumb Indian Matias Alberes (who even sometimes acted as a third Coyote, and was a Coyote allied at least up to around 1874 - he even was featured with Pedro Bienvenido in \"Los apuros de don César\" and later novels). Gunman Mario Lujan (who initially was an enemy of Coyote in \"Al servicio del Coyote\") helped him several times in later novels (and ended up as foreman at the San Antonio ranch). César Jr (the heir of the Acevedo farm) had two good friends in Joao da Silveira and César de Guzmán. He met them in around late 1872 (\"El Cuervo en la pradera\"). The skilled Indian Pedro Bienvenido (who was some kind of mind-reader) became an important allied of Coyote and his son César de Echagüe y Acevedo soon after (debuting in \"La reina del valle\" and its earlier and later sequels, also featuring Analupe de Monreal).\n\nSeveral of the novels' characters appeared throughout the series. Among them, Fray Jacinto at the mission station San Juan de Capistrano, who knew of Coyote's identity (and tried to get César to marry Lupe - he was the only one knowing Julian's true background). He was murdered in late 1872. Later there was Fray Anselmo at San Benito de Palermo. Don Goyo Paz fought in the Mexican-American war and was a ranchowner not too far from San Antonio - los Lugones were hired bodyguards at Don Goyo's, whose son Gregorio Paz was to marry Guadalupe, but \"El Diablo\" forced César to marry her instead. There were solisitor José Covarrubias, doctor Garcia Oviedo, and Los Angeles sheriff Teodomiro Mateos - sheriff twice (1860s and 1870s), and in later years one of César's best friends. Former civil war spy Ginevra St. Clair appeared in 1869 (\"El exterminio de la Calavera\", where César fell in love with her, but she died). There also were three more adventurers who appeared in several novels - Chris Wardell, \"El Diablo\" (Juan Nepomuceno Mariñas), and \"Princess Irina\" (Odile Garson - she debuted in \"Otra lucha\" in early 1870, and soon tried to charm César, but ended up as the partner of \"El Diablo\" after César's marriage). All three started out as some kind of enemies of Coyote. Anita was Guadalupe's maiden, and San Francisco chief vigilante Captain Farrell became a good friend of Coyote. Another noble ranchowner was Don Rómulo Hidalgo (with his son Justo - his father was murdered around 1871). In the novels there were of course also a lot of villains - Coyote's worst and toughest enemy probably was Robert Toombs (featured in \"Guadalupe\" and its sequels around 1872). Several novels were adventures in sequels (one special long one was Coyote´s adventures with Analupe De Monreal around 1873).\n\n\n\"El Coyote\" had a comic series adaptation in Spain, Cliper comics - 113 in the first series by Jose Mallorquí and Francisco Batet, from 1947 up into 1953, with a total of 189 adventures up to 1955, plus 14 more (2a Epoca) later on - with a late revival 1983 on Comics Forum, and even later Batet's originals on Agualarga hard-bound. There was also a long-running Spanish radio series on SER with many episodes, featuring Vicente Mullor. Cliper also published 490 Coyote picture cards in 1946.\n\nThe links below are divided into three sections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17142923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142923", "title": "Encyclopedia of Korean Culture", "text": "Encyclopedia of Korean Culture\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Korean Culture is a Korean language encyclopedia published by the Academy of Korean Studies and DongBang Media Co. In 2001, the digital edition EncyKorea was published on CD-ROM and DVD. The articles in the encyclopedia are aimed at readers who want to learn about Korean culture and history, and were written by over 3,800 scholars and expert contributors—mainly associated with the Academy of Korean Studies. It is widely perceived as the most extensive encyclopedia of Korean studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925338", "title": "Field Marshals' Hall of the Winter Palace", "text": "Field Marshals' Hall of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Field Marshals' Hall of the Winter Palace in Saint Petersburg was built to honor Imperial Russia's greatest military leaders—Russian generals who attained the rank of Field Marshal. (The only higher rank was that of Generalissimo, attained by four generals and, in the Soviet period, bestowed on Joseph Stalin).\n\nThis great hall and the adjacent throne room are part of the suite of rooms that were created in the western part of the Winter Palace for Tsar Nicholas I in 1833 by architect Auguste de Montferrand.\n\nThe great fire, which destroyed the interior of the Winter Palace, began in this hall on 17 December 1837. It destroyed all in its path for over thirty hours. Following the fire, the hall was rebuilt in its original style by the architect Vasily Stasov.\n\nToday, as part of the State Hermitage Museum, this room retains its recreated decoration by Stasov.\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "31030117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31030117", "title": "Fun with Radio", "text": "Fun with Radio\n\nFun with Radio is a book by Gilbert Davey first published in 1957 by Edmund Ward Ltd (London). At a time when radio receivers were still very expensive, and portable radios still a rarity (transistors were just being introduced), the book introduced many youngsters, mainly boys, to radio construction, and in some cases a career in radio or electronics. Radio construction was, in the early years of broadcasting, a very popular hobby among boys. By the time he published 'Fun with Radio', Davey already had a huge following among readers of the \"Boy's Own Paper\", where he was said to be the most popular contributor on practical subjects among its readers, and in that same year he presented a series on BBC Television's \"Studio 'E\"' which reportedly brought him 26,000 letters within a few days of the first broadcast \n\nGilbert Davey had a career as an insurance official, and was an amateur in the field of radio, but his enthusiasm and straightforward writing with clear detailed diagrams inspired many youngsters.\n\nSix editions of the book were published, the final one in 1978. Davey also wrote \"Fun with Short Wave Radio\", \"Fun with Transistors\", \"Fun with Hi-Fi\", and \"Fun with Silicon Chips in Modern Radio\" (1981).\n"}
{"id": "47246496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47246496", "title": "General View of Agriculture county surveys", "text": "General View of Agriculture county surveys\n\nThe General View series of county surveys was an initiative of the Board of Agriculture of Great Britain, of the early 1790s. Many of these works had second editions, in the 1810s.\n\nThe Board, set up by Sir John Sinclair, was generally a proponent of enclosures.\n\nWilliam Marshall, who had written the Central Highlands survey, was a rival of Arthur Young, and at odds with him over the surveys. He wrote at length about the reports in 1808 to 1817, producing a five-volume \"Review\", generally critical of the reports. William Lester's \"History of British Implements and Machinery applicable to Agriculture\" (1811) drew heavily on extracts from the surveys, where those covered agricultural implements. His introduction commented on the difficulty in referring farmers directly to the reports.\n\nSir John Sinclair wrote a number of related works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31652981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31652981", "title": "Great Dictionary of the Indonesian Language of the Language Center", "text": "Great Dictionary of the Indonesian Language of the Language Center\n\nThe Great Dictionary of the Indonesian Language of the Language Center (Indonesian: \"Kamus Besar Bahasa Indonesia Pusat Bahasa\" (abbreviated in English and Indonesian as KBBI)) is the official dictionary of the Indonesian language. Produced by the Language Center of the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture, it is considered canonical as a measure of which words have been formally incorporated into Indonesian.\n\nThe dictionary was first published in 1988, and launched at the Congress on the Indonesian Language. The first edition contained 62,000 entries, the second in 1991 had 72,000, and the third in 2000 had 78,000. The current, fourth edition was released in 2008 and contains 90,000 entries; it is available online. The language it records is formal; it omits words that are considered slang or foreign, and its aim is prescriptive. The authors note that \"the compilation of a dictionary constitutes an effort of language codification which becomes part of standardization of a language.\" The dictionary has been criticised for being too selective, and excluding words that are in common use. Continual work is done towards future versions, to ensure the dictionary remains relevant to changes in the Indonesian language, and the authors are open to criticism and advice on how the work might accurately reflect Indonesian. Writing in the Jakarta Post, Setiono Sugiharto states the \"KBBI should be appreciated as a byproduct of work by Indonesian scholars who persistently show their commitment to the development of the Indonesian lexicon\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3291454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291454", "title": "Laser acronyms", "text": "Laser acronyms\n\nHere, is a list of initialisms and acronyms used in laser physics, applications and technology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3408212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408212", "title": "List of acronyms: Z", "text": "List of acronyms: Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36839926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36839926", "title": "List of free and open-source iOS applications", "text": "List of free and open-source iOS applications\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable applications (\"apps\") that run on iOS which meet guidelines for free software and open-source software.\n\n"}
{"id": "38443783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38443783", "title": "List of loanwords in Thai", "text": "List of loanwords in Thai\n\nThe Thai language has many borrowed words from mainly Sanskrit, Pali and some Prakrit, Khmer, Portuguese, Dutch, certain Chinese dialects and more recently, Arabic (in particular many Islamic terms) and English (in particular many scientific and technological terms). Some examples as follows:\n\nThere are some Thai words which are spelled exactly the same as the English word e.g. format, lesbian etc.\n\nThai has also heavily influenced the forms of colloquial English spoken in Thailand (Tinglish).\n"}
{"id": "473535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473535", "title": "List of manuscripts", "text": "List of manuscripts\n\nThis is a list of famous manuscripts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48423601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423601", "title": "Madruga Municipal Museum", "text": "Madruga Municipal Museum\n\nMadruga Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 25th avenue in Madruga, Cuba. It was established on 12 February 1982.\n\nSince October 20, 2018, this Municipal Museum is named after María Mercedes García Santana.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history, weaponry and decorative arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "27609243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27609243", "title": "Margaret McCarthy letter", "text": "Margaret McCarthy letter\n\nMargaret McCarthy ( – death date unknown) was an Irish migrant to the United States.\n\nOn September 22, 1850, she wrote a letter to her family, as a guide for other emigrants. She explained that once in the United States, moving west was very expensive, though she did not know that those who did go rarely had an improved standard of living.\n\nHer letter is typical of that of many immigrants, containing optimism about her own condition, and concern for the family and people she left behind.\n\nShe was born to Alexander \"Sandy\" McCarthy, a carpenter for the Crown Estate who lived in Boherboy, Ireland, and his wife, Neil.\n\nMcCarthy travelled from Kingwilliamstown in County Cork to Nohavaldaly, near Kanturk, during the Irish Potato Famine. She left from Liverpool, England, on September 7, 1849, on the \"Columbus\", and arrived in New York City, United States, on October 22 of that year.\n"}
{"id": "365780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365780", "title": "Metropolitan Travel Survey Archive", "text": "Metropolitan Travel Survey Archive\n\nThe U.S. Metropolitan Travel Survey Archive is a project to store, preserve, and make publicly available, via the internet, travel surveys conducted by metropolitan areas, states and localities.\n\nAs of 2007, the archive held 58 surveys comprising 2,718,329 trip records, 516,108 person records, 219,097 household records, 173,354 vehicle records, and 528,847 location records. Similar to this U.S. archive, an international archive of travel survey date has been suggested so that this service is expanded into more countries.\n\nThe motivation behind the archive is to forestall the loss of electronic files and documentation of surveys, which has befallen previous surveys. These surveys are both costly to conduct, and irreplaceable as it is impossible to reconstruct past records of human travel behavior. The archive was established with funding from the United States Department of Transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "36035959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36035959", "title": "National Gallery (Berlin)", "text": "National Gallery (Berlin)\n\nThe National Gallery () in Berlin, Germany, is a museum for art of the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries. It is part of the Berlin State Museums. From the Alte Nationalgalerie, which was built for it and opened in 1876, its exhibition space has expanded to include five other locations. The museums are part of the Berlin State Museums, owned by the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation.\n\nThe holdings of the National Gallery are currently shown in five locations:\n\nThere was long discussion of the desirability of establishing a national gallery in Berlin, particularly during the period of revolutionary nationalism around 1848, and it became an increasingly serious proposition from 1850, when publications appeared advocating it. From the start it was bound up with the ambitions of Prussia and the wish for Berlin to become a capital of world renown. The decision was finally taken in 1861, after the death of the banker and art patron Joachim Heinrich Wilhelm Wagener, who bequeathed his extensive collection (262 artworks) to the then Prince Regent, the future King William I, in the hope of catalysing the formation of a gallery of \"more recent\" art. The collection was initially known as the \"Wagenersche und Nationalgalerie\" (Wagener and National Gallery) and was housed in the buildings of the Prussian Academy of Arts.\n\nFriedrich August Stüler began working on a design for a gallery building in 1863, based on a sketch by William I's father, King Frederick William IV of Prussia. Two years and two failed plans later, his third proposal was finally accepted. Stüler died before planning was completed and Carl Busse handled the remaining details in 1865. In 1866, by order of the king and his cabinet, the \"Kommission für den Bau der Nationalgalerie\" (Commission for the construction of the national gallery) was created. Ground was broken in 1867 under the supervision of Heinrich Strack. In 1872 the structure was completed and interior work began. The opening took place on March 22, 1876 in the presence of William I, who was by then German Emperor.\n\nThe building, today the Alte Nationalgalerie, resembles a Greco-Roman temple (a form chosen for its symbolism that, it has been pointed out, is not well suited to displaying art) and is stylistically a combination of late Classicism and early Neo-Renaissance. It was intended to express \"the unity of art, nation, and history\", and therefore has aspects reminiscent of a church (with an apse) and a theatre (a grand staircase leading to the entry) as well as a temple. An equestrian statue of Frederick William IV tops the stairs, and the inside stairs have a frieze by Otto Geyer depicting German history from prehistoric times to the 19th century. The inscription over the door reads \"To German art, 1871\" (the year of the founding of the Empire, not the year the gallery was completed). On his first visit to Berlin, in November 1916, the young Adolf Hitler sent a postcard of this building to a comrade in arms to congratulate him on receiving the Iron Cross.\n\nThe first director of the National Gallery was Max Jordan, who was appointed in 1874, before the building was completed. When the building opened, in addition to Wagener's collection, it contained over 70 cartoons for friezes on mythological and religious subjects by Peter von Cornelius; high-ceilinged galleries were designed to accommodate them. Wagener's collection was not limited to German art; in particular, it included Belgian artists who were popular at the time; and under Jordan the gallery's holdings rapidly came to include an unusually large collection of sculpture and a drawings department. However, Jordan was hampered throughout his tenure by the Regional Art Commission, which was made up of representatives of the academic art establishment and resisted all attempts to acquire modernist art.\n\nIn 1896, he was succeeded as director by Hugo von Tschudi, formerly assistant head of the Berlin museums under Wilhelm von Bode. Although he had previously had no association with modern art, he was fired with enthusiasm for Impressionism on a visit to Paris where he was introduced to the art dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, and became determined to acquire a representative collection of Impressionist art for the National Gallery. When the commission vetoed his requests, he secured the patronage of a large number of wealthy bourgeois art collectors, most of them Jewish. He also rearranged the exhibition spaces, putting many items in storage to make room for works by Manet, Monet, Degas and Rodin as well as the earlier Constable and Courbet. One of the first, soon after Tschudi took up the post, was Manet's \"In the Conservatory\"; in 1897, the Berlin National Gallery became the first museum in the world to acquire a painting by Cézanne. This moved the gallery decisively away from emphasis on Prussia and the rest of the German Empire. In response to complaints from the academic connoisseurs, William II decreed in 1899 that all acquisitions for the National Gallery must have his personal authorisation; Tschudi initially complied and rehung the old works, but the imperial decree proved unenforceable, prompting the Kaiser to build public monuments to his power instead. In 1901, at the inauguration of the memorials on the Siegesallee, he gave a speech denouncing \"gutter art\" which became known as the \"Rinnsteinrede\" (gutter speech).\n\nTschudi also had a great appreciation for the German Romantics, many of whose paintings were included in Wagener's original bequest. An exhibition of 100 years of German art at the National Gallery in 1906 contributed to reawakening interest in artists such as Caspar David Friedrich. This was also an interest shared by Tschudi's successor, Ludwig Justi, who was director from 1909 to 1933 and added to the gallery's holdings in early 19th-century German painting.\n\nIn 1919, after the abolition of the Prussian monarchy, the gallery acquired the Crown Prince's Palace (\"Kronprinzenpalais\") and used it to display the modern art. This became known as the Neue Abteilung (New Department) or National Gallery II, and met the demand by contemporary artists for a Gallery of Living Artists. It opened with works by the Berlin Secessionists, the Impressionists and the Expressionists. This was the first state promotion of Expressionist works, which were unpopular with large numbers of the public, but the collection was, in the judgement of Justi's assistant Alfred Hentzen, superior to that of all other German galleries then collecting modern art. By far the largest share of artworks in the 1937 exhibition of 'Degenerate Art' under the Nazis were taken from this collection.\n\nJusti was one of 27 art gallery and museum heads forced out by the Nazis in 1933 under the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, to be succeeded for a few months by Alois Schardt and then by Eberhard Hanfstaengl, who was in turn dismissed in 1937; he had refused to meet with the commission under Adolf Ziegler, president of the Reich Chamber for the Visual Arts, who were charged with purging the gallery of \"degenerate\" works. Some artwork from a dealer had been burnt in the furnaces of the National Gallery building in 1936, and the modern art annexe in the Crown Prince's Palace was shut down in 1937 as a \"hotbed of cultural Bolshevism\". The gallery was placed under the control of the Berlin State Museums and Hanfstaengl was after a while replaced by Paul Ortwin Rave, who despite being more acceptable to the Nazi regime, conscientiously guarded the artworks and as the war drew to an end, went with them to the mine where they were to be stored for safety's sake and was there when the Red Army arrived. He remained in charge of the gallery until 1950.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the gallery and the other museums on Museum Island were located in the Soviet Occupation Zone which became East Berlin. The National Gallery's collection, much of it confiscated and then returned by the various occupying powers, was split between East and West and had been further diminished by the war; 19th-century paintings from the former annexe had been destroyed by fire. While the Alte Nationalgalerie building was renovated, in the Western sector, paintings were initially housed in Charlottenburg Palace. The city of Berlin (West) founded a new museum of 20th-century art in 1949; this was eventually merged with the Western branch of the National Gallery, and West Berlin then created its own cultural centre, the Kulturforum, which included the Neue Nationalgalerie (New National Gallery), a modernist building designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. This opened on 15 September 1968 and initially exhibited the full range of 19th and 20th-century art. Werner Haftmann, who had become the director in 1967, said he was nervous about the gallery moving into the prestige modern building, comparing himself to \"a wretched learner ... getting into a luxury Mercedes.\"\n\nThe Friedrichswerder Church, a Gothic landmark designed by Karl Friedrich Schinkel, was ruined in the war; between 1979 and 1986 it was restored, and it was then reopened in September 1987, as part of the celebrations of Berlin's 750th anniversary, as an annexe of the National Gallery displaying 19th-century sculpture. There is a Schinkel museum in the gallery.\n\nFollowing German reunification, the old building was extensively renovated and the new building is now used for 20th-century art and the old building for 19th-century art.\n\nIn 1996, while the Alte Nationalgalerie was still being slowly renovated, two further exhibition spaces were added for modern art. In September, the Berggruen Museum, housing Heinz Berggruen's collection of modern classics, especially focussed on Picasso, opened in the western of a pair of neoclassical buildings opposite the Charlottenburg Palace, like the Alte Nationalgalerie designed by Friedrich August Stüler as realisations of sketches by Frederick William IV; it had housed the West Berlin Museum of Antiquities until that collection was returned to Museum Island after German reunification. Berggruen initially leased the collection to the Berlin State Museums for a ten-year period, but in 2000 sold it to them for a small fraction of its assessed value. In November, the Hamburger Bahnhof, formerly a museum of technology but ruined in the war, opened after a six-year renovation as the \"Museum für Gegenwart\", housing contemporary art, initially most from Erich Marx's collection.\n\nIn 2008, the Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection of 20th-century art opened in the eastern Stüler building, which had housed the Egyptian Collection until it moved back to Museum Island. The collection is on a ten-year lease from the \"Stiftung Sammlung Dieter Scharf zur Erinnerung an Otto Gerstenberg\" (foundation of the Dieter Scharf collection in remembrance of Otto Gerstenberg), which focusses on the fantastic and the surreal and was built by Dieter Scharf based on some of the works in his grandfather Otto Gerstenberg's collection.\n\nIn December 2011, it was announced that the Old Masters currently displayed in the Gemäldegalerie in the Kulturforum would be moved out to make way for a representative permanent exhibition of modern art, for which the Neue Nationalgalerie does not have adequate space.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37560447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37560447", "title": "Neothunnus", "text": "Neothunnus\n\nThunnus (Neothunnus) is a subgenus of ray-finned bony fishes in the Thunnini, or tuna, tribe. More specifically, \"Neothunnus\" is a subgenus of the genus \"Thunnus\", also known as the \"true tunas\". \"Neothunnus\" is sometimes referred to as the yellowfin group, and comprises three species:\n\n"}
{"id": "248723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248723", "title": "Online encyclopedia", "text": "Online encyclopedia\n\nAn online encyclopedia is an encyclopedia accessible through the internet, such as Wikipedia. The idea to build a free encyclopedia using the Internet can be traced at least to the 1994 Interpedia proposal; it was planned as an encyclopedia on the Internet to which everyone could contribute materials. The project never left the planning stage and was overtaken by a key branch of old printed encyclopedias.\n\nThere are a lot of old encyclopaedia and dictionaries of national biographies on Wikisource both in English and other languages. The completion of these encyclopaedias vary and the quality of the content varies from proof read, to poor quality text with many optical character recognition (OCR) errors.\n\nMany encyclopaedias are available at the Internet Archive. Although the original text is viewable the machine readable text is often poor with may OCR errors.\n\nIn January 1995, Project Gutenberg started to publish the ASCII text of \nthe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 11th edition (1911), but disagreement about the method halted the work after the first volume. For trademark reasons this has been published as the \"Gutenberg Encyclopedia\". Project Gutenberg has restarted work on digitising and proofreading this encyclopedia; as of June 2005 it had not yet been published. Meanwhile, in the face of competition from rivals such as Encarta, the latest \"Britannica\" was digitized by its publishers, and sold first as a CD-ROM and later as an online service.#\n\nIn 2001, ASCII text of all 28 volumes was published on \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition by source; a copyright claim was added to the materials included. The website no longer exists.\n\nOther digitization projects have made progress in other titles. One example is \"Easton's Bible Dictionary (1897)\" digitized by the Christian Classics Ethereal Library.\n\nA successful digitization of an encyclopedia was the Bartleby Project's online adaptation of the \"Columbia Encyclopedia\", Sixth Edition, in early 2000 and is updated periodically.\n\nAnother related branch of activity is the creation of new, free contents on a volunteer basis. In 1991, the participants of the Usenet newsgroup alt.fan.douglas-adams started a project to produce a real version of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", a fictional encyclopedia used in the works of Douglas Adams. It became known as Project Galactic Guide. Although it originally aimed to contain only real, factual articles, policy was changed to allow and encourage semi-real and unreal articles as well. Project Galactic Guide contains over 1700 articles, but no new articles have been added since 2000; this is probably partly due to the founding of h2g2, a more official project along similar lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "49131332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49131332", "title": "Oran fatwa", "text": "Oran fatwa\n\nThe Oran fatwa was a \"responsum\" fatwa, or an Islamic legal opinion, issued in 1504 to address the crisis that occurred when Muslims in the Crown of Castile (in Spain) were forced to convert to Christianity in 15001502. The fatwa sets out detailed relaxations of the sharia (Islamic law) requirements, allowing the Muslims to conform outwardly to Christianity and perform acts that are ordinarily forbidden in Islamic law, when necessary to survive. It includes relaxed instructions for fulfilling the ritual prayers, the ritual charity, and the ritual ablution, and recommendations when obliged to violate Islamic law, such as worshipping as Christians, committing blasphemy, and consuming pork and wine.\n\nThe fatwa enjoyed wide currency among Muslims and Moriscos (Muslims nominally converted to Christianity and their descendants) in Spain, and one of the surviving aljamiado translations was dated at 1564, 60years after the original fatwa. The fatwa has been described as the \"key theological document\" to understand the practice of Spanish Muslims following the Reconquista up to the expulsion of the Moriscos. The author of the fatwa (\"mufti\") was Ahmad ibn Abi Jum'ah, a North African scholar of Islamic law of the Maliki school. The fatwa was termed the \"Oran fatwa\" by modern scholars, due to the word \"Al-Wahrani\" (\"of Oran\") that appears in the text as part of the author's name.\n\nThe influence of the fatwa was limited to Spain. Outside the Iberian Peninsula, the predominant opinion upheld the requirements of Islamic law and required Muslims to emigrate, or even choose martyrdom, when the orthodox observance of the religion became impossible.\n\nIslam has been present in Spain since the Umayyad conquest of Hispania in the eighth century. At the beginning of the twelfth century, the Muslim population in the Iberian Peninsula — called \"Al-Andalus\" by the Muslims — was estimated to number up to 5.5 million, among whom were Arabs, Berbers and indigenous converts. In the next few centuries, as the Christians pushed from the north in a process called \"reconquista\", the Muslim population declined. At the end of the fifteenth century, the \"reconquista\" culminated in the fall of Granada, and the total number of Muslims in Spain was estimated to be between 500,000 and 600,000 out of the total Spanish population of 7 to 8 million. Approximately half of the Muslims lived in the former Emirate of Granada, the last independent Muslim state in Spain, which had been annexed to the Crown of Castile. About 20,000 Muslims lived in other territories of Castile, and most of the remainder lived in the territories of the Crown of Aragon.\n\nPrior to the completion of the \"reconquista\", the defeated Muslims were generally given freedom of religion as terms of their surrender. For example, the Treaty of Granada, which governed the surrender of the emirate, guaranteed a set of rights to the conquered Muslims, including religious tolerance and fair treatment, in return for their capitulation. The increasing occurrences of forced conversion triggered a series of Muslim rebellions in Granada (1499–1501). The rebellions were suppressed, and afterwards the Muslims in Granada were no longer given the rights that had been provided to them by the Treaty of Granada. They were given the choice to remain and accept baptism, to reject baptism and be enslaved or killed, or to be exiled. The option of exile was often not feasible in practice because of the difficulty in uprooting one's family and making the journey to Muslim lands in North Africa, the inability to pay the fee required by the authorities for safe passage, and the general tendency by the authorities to discourage and hinder such an exodus.\n\nSome Muslims, especially those living near the southern coast, took the option of exile, but for most, publicly converting to Christianity while secretly continuing to believe and practise Islam was the only available option for surviving as Muslims. The population converted \"en masse\", and by 1501 the entire Muslim population of Granada was nominally converted to Christianity. The apparent success of Granada's forced conversions triggered a series of edicts and proclamations in 1501 and 1502 which effectively put the Muslims elsewhere in Castile to the same fate. These new converts, along with their descendants, were known by Spanish sources as the Moriscos. As well as having to accept Christianity and abandon the Islamic faith and rituals, they were also pressured to conform to Christian ways, including by attending church, sending their children to be instructed in the Christian doctrine, and partaking of food and beverages forbidden by Islamic law.\n\nPrior to the Oran fatwa, the predominant position of Islamic scholars had been that a Muslim could not stay in a country where rulers made proper religious observance impossible. Therefore, a Muslim's obligation was to leave, when they were able to do so. Even before the systematic forcible conversion, religious leaders had argued that Muslims in Christian territory would be subject to direct and indirect pressure, and preached emigration as a way to protect the religion from erosion. Notably, the contemporary North African scholar Ahmad al-Wansharisi, who was considered the leading authority on the subject of Muslims in Spain, wrote in 1491 that emigrating from Christian to Muslim lands was compulsory in almost all circumstances. Further, Al-Wansharisi urged severe punishment for the Muslims who remained and predicted that they would temporarily dwell in hell in the afterlife.\n\nThe surviving translations of the fatwa give the name of the author in various slightly different forms. All of them are thought to be derived from the Arabic name Ahmad ibn Abi Jum'ah al-Maghrawi al-Wahrani, with some adding the name 'Ubaydallah, which might be a pious formula meaning \"the little servant of God\". The author's nisba — the part of his name that indicates place of origin — \"al-Wahrani\" (\"of Oran\") refers to the city of Oran (,\"Wahran\") in modern-day Algeria, then part of the Zayyanid kingdom of Tlemcen. Thus, the author is often referred to as \"the \"Mufti\" of Oran\" and the document is called \"the Oran fatwa\", even though there appeared to be no indication that the fatwa was issued in Oran or that the author resided or had an official authority in Oran. Devin Stewart, an academic specialist in Islamic studies, identified the author as Abu al-Abbas Ahmad ibn Abi Jum'ah al-Maghrawi al-Wahrani (b.unknownd.1511 in Fez), a Maliki jurist who had studied in Oran and Tlemcen and probably issued the fatwa in Fez while a professor of Islamic law there.\n\nAl-Wahrani drafted the fatwa in response to a request of legal opinion, in other words, as a \"responsum\", to Muslim petitioners who wished to learn if they could continue to live in Christian Spain. The recipient of the fatwa is not named. The commonly accepted date of the composition of the fatwa is 1Rajab 910AH, as this was the date that appears in most of the surviving manuscripts. This day in the Islamic calendar corresponds to around 8December 1504. One manuscript added \"3May 1563\" in addition to 1Rajab 910, which would have been a date conversion error, but both Stewart and the historian L. P. Harvey have suggested that the 1563 date might have been the time of the translation. One other manuscript gives \"Rajab909\", which was probably a copying error.\n\nThe opening of the fatwa displayed sympathy to the Muslims of Spain, who kept their religious faith despite the suffering and risk that this posed them. The \"mufti\" (author of the fatwa) exhorted that they continue to adhere to the religion of Islam and instruct it to their children when the latter reached maturity.\n\nThe fatwa reaffirmed the obligation of Spanish Muslims to perform the ritual prayers (\"salat\"), the ritual charity (\"zakat\"), and the ritual ablution (\"ghusl\"), even if they could not be performed in the correct form. It described the obligation of the ritual prayersnormally performed by standing, bowing, prostrating, and sitting in a prescribed sequenceeven if done only by making slight movements. The fatwa also allowed the omission of the prayersnormally performed an obligatory five times a day at prescribed timeswhen they were prevented from doing so, and instructed them to make up the missed prayers at night instead. It also provided instructions for performing the ritual dry ablution (\"tayammum\") when ritually pure water was not available, to replace the ritual ablution (\"wudu\") that is ordinarily required before performing the \"salat\". When \"tayammum\" was not possible, even making slight pointing motions with hands or face toward clean earth, stone, or tree was acceptable.\n\nThe fatwa also maintained the Islamic obligation to give the ritual charity (\"zakat\")normally calculated and distributed in a specific manner prescribed by the sharia (Islamic law)even if this could only be done by showing generosity to a beggar. It affirmed the obligation of the ritual ablution (\"ghusl\"), \"even though by plunging into the sea\".\n\nThe fatwa permitted Muslims outwardly to participate in Christian rituals and worship, so long as they inwardly considered them to be forbidden. When the Muslims had to prostrate to Christian \"idols\", they were to internally desire to perform the Islamic prayer, even if not actually facing Mecca, and when they bowed down to the \"idols\", they were to focus their attention toward Allah. When obliged to commit blasphemy, such as cursing Muhammad, or accepting Jesus as the son of God or Mary as God's wife [\"sic\"], the fatwa instructed them to do so, and to employ \"whatever stratagems\" they could to negate their meaning whenever possible. For example, the fatwa suggested mispronouncing the name of Muhammad, or intending to curse someone else with a similar name, when being required to curse the prophet.\n\nThe fatwa also allowed Spain's Muslims to consume wine, pork, and other things normally forbidden by the sharia, as long as the Muslims did not intend to take advantage of them and rejected them in their hearts. The fatwa reaffirmed the permissibility of a Muslim man marrying a Christian woman, under the reasoning that both Muslims and Christians were People of the Book. Marriage between a Muslim woman and a Christian man was to be avoided unless under duress, and while doing so the Muslims should \"cleave firmly to the belief that that is forbidden\".\n\nAt the end of the fatwa, the author encouraged the Muslims to write to the \"mufti\" about anything else that presented difficulty to them, so that he could give further legal opinions. The fatwa discreetly did not name any specific recipient, and instead designated the persons it was addressed to by \"al-guraba\" (those living abroad) yet near to Allah\".\n\nThe fatwa appeared to enjoy wide currency within the Muslim and Morisco community in various kingdoms of Spain, for it was translated and copied as late as 1563 and 1609. The full geographical reach of the text is unknown, but it appeared to be originally addressed to the Muslims (or Moriscos) of Castile as a response to their forced conversions in 1500–1502. After the forced conversion was extended to the Crown of Aragon in the 1520s, the fatwa likely circulated there, too.\n\nThe opinion formed the basis of the Moriscos' Islamic status and practices for more than a century, until their expulsion in 1609–1614. This led to a non-traditional form of Islam, in which one's internal intention (\"niyya\"), rather than external observation of rituals and laws, was the defining characteristic of one's Islam. Generations of Moriscos were born and died within this religious climate. Hybrid or undefined religious practice featured in many Morisco texts. For example, the works of the Morisco writer known as \"the Young Man of Arévalo\", written c.1530s described crypto-Muslims using Christian worship as replacement for regular Islamic rituals, as recommended in the fatwa.\n\nThe influence of the fatwa was limited to Spain. Outside the Iberian Peninsula, the predominant opinion continued to uphold the unbending requirements of Islamic law and required Muslims to leave any country, or even choose martyrdom, where approved observance of the religion became impossible.\n\nModern scholars of Spanish Islamic history stressed the historical importance of the fatwa. Harvey called it \"the key theological document\" for the study of Spanish Islam following the forced conversions, a description which Stewart repeated. Mercedes García-Arenal and Fernando Rodríguez Mediano, historians of Spain and Western Muslims, described the fatwa as \"famous\" and called it \"one of the most important theological texts of later Spanish Islam\". Spanish literature scholar María del Mar Rosa-Rodríguez considered the fatwa important because it officially documented \"the existence of religiosities that do not depend on traditional ritual practice\".\n\nHarvey and Stewart said that the fatwa was a departure from the previous legal opinions among Islamic scholars, which typically emphasised the obligation to emigrate from any country where proper religious observance was not possible. Notably, the Maliki scholar al-Wansharisi, the leading living authority on the issue, was among the proponents of this view. Stewart contended that, while the fatwa's text did not mention any opponent, it was intended as a rebuke against the views of al-Wansharisi. Recipients of this fatwa would be able to stay put, outwardly conforming to Christianity and not see themselves as abandoning their faith. The fatwa addressed the recipient as \"al-guraba\", a word that means \"outsiders\" or \"those living abroad\", but this word also appears in several hadiths (sayings of Muhammad) and evokes a spiritual meaning of heroic Muslims loyal to their faith in spite of great suffering. The sympathy shown by the author, as well as his acknowledgement of the Muslims' loyalty and suffering, is in contrast with the predominant opinion such as al-Wansharisi's which saw them unfavourably.\n\nHarvey did not consider the fatwa as a permanent and universal relaxation of the sharia; instead, the sender and the recipients of the fatwa must have seen its provisions as temporary expedients under extraordinary circumstances intended to help the Muslims of Spain through the crisis. The fatwa began by affirming in orthodox terms the obligations of all Muslims, and ended by expressing hopes that Islam may again be practised openly without ordeals, tribulations and fear. The \"mufti\" and many Moriscos expected or hoped that the crisis to end at some not-too-distant time. Rosa-Rodriguez noted that the fatwa stated a hope that the \"Noble Turks\" would soon intervene and end the religious persecution in Spain, a reference to the Ottoman Empire's growing power in the Mediterranean at the time. This hope did not materialise, and the religious persecution in Spain continued, causing the fatwa's recommendations to become the normal way of practicing Islam for generations.\n\nHarvey also noted that the fatwa covered a wide range of Islamic religious duties, while usually a \"responsum\" fatwa only addresses a specific enquiry on a difficult point of detail. The fatwa also went into specific practical challenges faced by Muslims in Spain, such as the pressure to curse Muhammad, eat pork, drink wine, and intermarry with the Christians. This suggests that the author had some knowledge of what life under Christian rule was like.\n\nAmin Maalouf's 1986 novel \"Leo Africanus\" features a fictionalised version of the fatwa. In the novel, Muslim exiles from Granada and the local ulama (Islamic scholars) held meetings in Fez to provide counsel to the Muslims in Granada, who sent letters describing their persecution and their dilemma. Amid the meetings, the protagonist of the novel witnessed the \"man from Oran\" delivering a speech similar in content to the Oran fatwa.\n\nAs of 2006, there are four known surviving manuscripts containing the fatwa. One of them is an Arabic copy, discovered by Muhammad Abdullah 'Inan in the Vatican in 1951 and kept in the Borgiano collection of the Vatican Library. The other three were translations to Spanish written in the Arabic script (\"aljamiado\"). One of them was kept in Aix-en-Provence, France, and one in Madrid, Spain. The third \"aljamiado\" translation used to be in Madrid, but its location is currently unknown.\n\nSince the discovery, the texts have been transcribed or translated into modern Spanish, English and German. Historian L. P. Harvey provides a near-complete English translation in his book \"Muslims in Spain, 1500 to 1615\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3935392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3935392", "title": "Pararaton", "text": "Pararaton\n\nThe Pararaton, also known as the Book of Kings, is a Javanese chronicle in the Kawi language. The comparatively short text of 32 folio-size pages (1126 lines) contains the history of the kings of Singhasari and Majapahit in eastern Java. \n\nPararaton opens with a formal incarnation of the founder of Singhasari kingdom (1222–1292), Ken Arok (or Ken Angrok). Almost half of the manuscript is the story of Ken Arok's career before his accession to the throne in 1222. This part is clearly mythical in character. There then follow a number of shorter narrative fragments in chronological order. Many of the events recorded here are dated. Towards the end the pieces of history become shorter and shorter and are mixed with genealogical information concerning the members of the royal family of Majapahit.\n\nThe edition of the text published by J.L.A. Brandes furnishes an alternative title: \"Serat Pararaton atawa Katuturanira Ken Angrok\" (\"The Book of Kings, or the Record of Ken Angrok\", but the original manuscripts only give the basic title: \"Pararaton\". Since the oldest colophon in the manuscripts contains the date 1522 Saka (1600 CE), the final part of the text must have been written between 1481 and 1600 CE.\n\nPararaton commences with a brief prelude telling how Ken Arok incarnated himself in which he became the king. He offered himself as a human sacrifice to Yamadipati, the Javanese Door God, in order to save himself from death. As a reward, he was promised that upon his death he would return to Vishnu's heaven and be reborn as a superior king of Singhasari.\n\nThe promise was fulfilled. Ken Arok was begotten by Brahma of a newly-wed peasant woman. On his birth, his mother laid him in a graveyard where his body, effulgent with light, attracted the attention of Ki Lembong, a passing thief. Ki Lembong adopted him, raised him and taught him all of his arts. Ken Arok indulged in gambling, plunder and rapine. In the manuscript, it is written as such that Ken Arok was saved many times by divine intervention. There is a scene in Mount Kryar Lejar wherein gods descend in conference and \"Batara Guru\" (Shiva) declares Ken Arok his son. Ken Arok is also destined to bring stability and power to Java.\n\nThe prelude of Pararaton is followed by the meeting of Ken Arok with Lohgawe, a Brahmanian who came from India to make sure Batara Guru's instructions were fulfilled. It was Lohgawe who asked Ken Arok to meet Tunggul Ametung, ruler of Tumapel. Ken Arok then killed Tunggul Ametung to gain possession of Ametung's wife, Ken Dedes, and also the throne to Singashari.\n\nSome parts of Pararaton cannot be accounted as historical facts. Especially in the prelude, fact and fiction, fantasy and reality go together. Scholars such as C. C. Berg argued that texts such as these are entirely supernatural and ahistorical, and intended not to record the past, but instead determine future events. However, the majority of scholars accept some historicity in the Pararaton, noting numerous correspondences with other inscriptions and Chinese sources, and accept the manuscript's frame of reference within which a valid interpretation is conceivable.\n\nThe manuscript was written under the nature of Javanese kingship. For Javanese, it is the function of the ruler to link the present with the past and the future and to give human life its appropriate place in the cosmic order. The king, in the Javanese realm, is the sacral embodiment of the total state, just as his palace is a microcosmic copy of the macrocosmos. The king (and a founder of a dynasty) possesses an innate divinity to a far higher degree than ordinary men.\n\nRas compared the Pararaton with the Sanskrit Canggal inscription (732 CE), the Śivagŗha (Siwagrha) inscription (856 CE), the Calcutta Stone (1041 CE) and the Babad Tanah Jawi (1836 CE). These show clear similarities in character, structure and function and also similarity with texts from the Malay historiography. \n\nIt describes a violent volcanic eruption in 416 AD in the Sunda Strait area, though the known eruption nearest this date was that of Krakatoa in 536: see 416 AD eruption of Krakatoa.\n\n"}
{"id": "50061647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50061647", "title": "Project Plan Document", "text": "Project Plan Document\n\nThe Project Management Plan Document also known as Project Plan Document or simply Project Plan is a document that contains the strategy for managing the project and the processes related to all areas of the project (scope, cost, schedule, quality, etc.) which are known as Knowledge Areas according to PMI. There are lots of project management processes mentioned in PMBOK® Guide, but determining what processes need to be used based on the needs of the project which is called Tailoring is part of developing the project management plan\n\nThe project plan document may include the following sections:\n\nA High level overview of the project\n\nThe roles and authority of team members. It represents the executive summary of the Project Management Plan\n\nThe Scope Statement from the Project Charter should be used as a starting point with more details about what the project includes and what it does not include (In-Scope and Out-Of-Scope)\n\nA list of the project Milestones (the stop points that helps evaluating the progress of the project). This list includes the milestone name, a description about the milestone, and the date expected.\n\nWBS which consists of Work Packages and WBS Dictionary, which defines these work packages, as well as Schedule Baseline, which is the reference point for managing project progress, are included here.\n\nThis section contains all management plans of all project aspects\n\nIdentify key resources needed for the project and their times and durations of need.\n\nThis section includes the budgeted total of each phase of the project and comments about the cost.\n\nAcceptable levels of quality.\n\nSome space for the project sponsor to sign off the document\n"}
{"id": "21541882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21541882", "title": "Seungjeongwon ilgi", "text": "Seungjeongwon ilgi\n\nSeungjeongwon ilgi or Journal of the Royal Secretariat is a daily record of \"Seungjeongwon\", Royal Secretariat during the Joseon Dynasty of Korea (1392 - 1910), which records the king’s public life and his interactions with the bureaucracy on a daily basis. It is the 303rd national treasure of Korea and designated as one of the UNESCO's Memory of the World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5312771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5312771", "title": "Social integration", "text": "Social integration\n\nSocial integration is the process during which newcomers or minorities are incorporated into the social structure of the host society.\n\nSocial integration, together with economic integration and identity integration, are three main dimensions of a newcomers' experiences in the society that is receiving them. A higher extent of social integration contributes to a closer social distance between groups and more consistent values and practices.\n\nBringing together various ethnic groups irrespective of language, caste, creed, etc., without losing one's identity. It gives access to all areas of community life and eliminates segregation.\n\nIn a broader view, social integration is a dynamic and structured process in which all members participate in dialogue to achieve and maintain peaceful social relations. Social integration does not mean forced assimilation. Social integration is focused on the need to move toward a safe, stable and just society by mending conditions of social disintegration, social exclusion, social fragmentation, exclusion and polarization, and by expanding and strengthening conditions of social integration towards peaceful social relations of coexistence, collaboration and cohesion.\n\nIntegration was first studied by Park and Burgess in 1921 through the concept of assimilation. They defined it as \"a process of interpenetration and fusion in which persons and groups acquire the memories, sentiments, and attitude of other persons and groups and, by sharing their experience and history, are incorporated with them in a common cultural life.\"\n\nWhile some scholars offered an assimilation theory, arguing that immigrants would be assimilated into the host society economically, socially and culturally over successive generations, others developed a multiculturalism theory, anticipating that immigrants could maintain their ethnic identities through the integration process to shape the host society with a diversified cultural heritage.\n\nExtending from the assimilation theory, a third group of scholars proposed a segmented integration theory, stressing that different groups of migrants might follow distinct trajectories towards upward or downward mobility on different dimensions, depending on their individual, contextual and structural factors.\n\nCompared with other dimensions of integration, social integration focuses more on the degree to which immigrants adapt local customs, social relations, and daily practices. It is usually measured through social network, language, and intermarriage. The most commonly used indicator of social integration is social network, which refers to the connection that immigrants build with others in the host society. While some researchers use the total number of immigrants’ friends as a measure, others use the frequency of interaction with friends. One thing worthy noting is that more and more studies differentiate local friends from immigrant friends because the former is considered more important in integrating immigrants into the local society than the latter.\n\nLanguage is another important variable to access the degree of immigrants’ social integration. A higher level in grasping local language results in more chances to communicate with local people and a better understanding of local culture. A typical question used in survey is as “Do you understand the local people’s language?” In the United States, for instance, the fluency of English is an widely used indicator and can be easily found in a report on immigration.\n\nIntermarriage is also an indicator of social integration. For those who are unmarried, they will be asked: “Would you consider marrying a local people?”; for those married, question will be like “Would you like your children to consider marrying a local people?” Answers to these questions are a good predictor of immigrants’ willingness to be integrated into the host society.\n\nIn many instances education is used as a mechanism for social promotion. Neither education nor work can be ensured without a form of law. In relation to tolerant and open societies, members of minority groups often use social integration to gain full access to the opportunities, rights and services available to the members of the mainstream of society with cultural institutions such as churches and civic organizations. Mass media content also performs a social integration function in mass societies.\n\nThe 2005 documentary ”Utan gränser – en film om idrott och integration” (\"Without Borders - A Film About Sports and Integration\") was a film described by Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet as \"a documentary on how to succeed with integration\" of migrants into Swedish society.\n\nThe term \"social integration\" first came into use in the work of French sociologist Émile Durkheim. He wanted to understand why rates of suicide were higher in some social classes than others. Durkheim believed that society exerted a powerful force on individuals. He concluded that a people's beliefs, values, and norms make up a collective consciousness, a shared way of understanding each other and the world.\n\nA 2012 research review found that working-class students were less socially integrated than middle-class students at university.\n\nRecent research also shows that immigrants should be independent and proactive in order to achieve better social integration in their host countries. For further information, see here.\n\nFrom a demographic and cultural standpoint, recent longitudinal studies suggest that social isolation or integration has shown to increase in older Spanish individuals, especially those whom may be suffering from neurocognitive disorders such as dementia and overall cognitive decline.\n\nThe United Nations has a Social Integration Branch, which is a part of the Division for Social Policy and Development (Department of Economic and Social Affairs). It also issues a quarterly publication named \"Bulletin on Social Integration Policies\". The UN Alliance of Civilizations initiative works on Migration and Integration as a key for intercultural understanding. An Online Community on Migration and Integration shows Good Practices from around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "10859840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10859840", "title": "Softpedia", "text": "Softpedia\n\nSoftpedia is a website from Romania that indexes information and provides primarily software information and downloads. Its main sections are Windows, Mac, Linux, Games, Drivers, Mobile, Webscripts, and News. It also covers technology and science topics from both external and in-house sources, and it provides software and game reviews.\n\nWherever possible, it includes one or more screenshots of each application, often showing the application's menus to help illustrate its features. Unlike most other freeware websites, who are publishing mainly just information supplied by the author via e.g. Robosoft (a freeware publication tool), all product reviews at Softpedia are hand-written by professional reviewers working for the company itself. \n\nSoftpedia reviews feature both a 5-star reviewer‘s choice, as well as a public 5-star product voting that‘s open to every website visitor. Softpedia‘s products are sorted in various categories, and users can sort their category of choice by latest / most popular / most favourite downloads. As well, freeware and commercial offerings (shareware) are clearly separated from each other, according to the product license. Virtual awards are granted and displayed for adware, spyware and commercial-free applications.\n\nSoftpedia does not repack software for distribution. It provides direct downloads of software in its original distribution form, links to developers' downloads, or both. In contrast to many other freeware websites though, Softpedia are hosting themselves. They allow to download the freeware and shareware products from their own Server, automatically scanned for viruses and malware, where appropriate.\n\nSoftpedia is a \"popular destination for software downloads\" and has a website area, dedicated to tech reviews and news about information technology (IT), software and tech accessories. It is owned by SoftNews NET SRL., a Romanian company.\n\nSoftpedia also has interviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "29883371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29883371", "title": "West v Secretary of State for Scotland", "text": "West v Secretary of State for Scotland\n\nWest v Secretary of State for Scotland 1992 SC 385 (IH), 1992 SLT 636, (also reported as \"West v Scottish Prison Service\", 1992 SCLR 504) is the leading case on judicial review in Scotland and sets out in detail the present law. It sets a contrast to the position on judicial review in England.\n\nThe petitioner complained that on being moved from his employment at one prison to another, he had been told that his moving expenses would be paid, but that they were not. The respondent said that the terms of his employment were that he was to be mobile, and that as a Crown employee his terms of employment were variable at the instance of the crown. \nHeld: Wherever there is an excess or abuse of the power or jurisdiction which has been conferred on a decision-maker, the Court of Session has the power to correct it.\n\nThe Court of Session held that does not require that the decision complained should have any public law element in order to be reviewable:\n\n… the Court of Session has power, in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction, to regulate the process by which decisions are taken by any person or body to whom a jurisdiction, power or authority has been delegated or entrusted by statute, agreement or any other instrument \nThe public or private nature of the inferior body or tribunal is not decisive, nor is it necessary to enquire whether the decision of the inferior body or tribunal is administrative in character. The essential point is that a decision-making function has been entrusted to that body or tribunal which it can be compelled by the court to perform… The essential feature of all these cases is the conferring, whether by statute or private contract, of a decision-making power or duty on a third party to whom the taking of the decision is entrusted but whose manner of decision-making may be controlled by the court.\n[\"per\" Lord President Hope at page 650, emphasis added].\n\nCrucially, in Scots administrative law the competency of an application to the supervisory jurisdiction\n\n… does not depend upon any distinction between public law and private law, nor is it confined to those cases which English law has accepted as amenable to judicial review... \n\nThe law of Scotland is different from the law of England on this matter: see, for England, \"R v Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of Great Britain ex parte Wachmann\" in which Simon Brown J held that a decision of the Chief Rabbi to terminate a rabbi’s employment was not reviewable: to attract the court’s supervisory jurisdiction, there must be ‘not merely a public but \"potentially a governmental interest in the decision-making power in question\".’ [at page 1046, emphasis added].\n\n"}
{"id": "24780204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24780204", "title": "What Bird is That?", "text": "What Bird is That?\n\nWhat Bird is That? A Guide to the Birds of Australia is a book first published in 1931 by Angus & Robertson in Sydney. Authored and illustrated by Neville William Cayley, it was Australia’s first fully illustrated national field guide to birds, a function it served alone for nearly 40 years. In 1960 it was rated the all-time best seller in Australian natural history.\n\n\"What Bird Is That?\" was originally published in octavo format (239 x 158 mm), containing 340 pages bound in green buckram, with a dust jacket illustrated with a painting of a laughing kookaburra seated on and within a large red question mark. It contains 36 coloured plates of paintings of Australian birds by the author, as well as several black-and-white photographic plates of habitat. There were numerous reprints and revised editions in various formats produced well into the 1980s.\n\nThe first edition was sponsored by the Gould League of Bird Lovers of New South Wales of which Cayley was a Council member. In return for its sponsorship, Cayley offered the Gould League four tenths of his 10% book royalty. However, initial sales were slow and in 1935 he sold his entire share to the League for £300.\n\nThe book was extolled fulsomely by S.R. Thomas, of the NSW Department of Education, as follows;\n\n\"\"What Bird is That?\" is the most comprehensive and informative bird book published in the Commonwealth – if not in the world. The coloured plates are a triumph not only of the genius and imagination of the artist – our own Neville Cayley on whom has fallen so fittingly the mantle of his famous father – but also of the block-maker’s and printer’s art. The publishers have done nothing finer of its kind.\n\nThe life-like portrayals of our feathered friends, together with the succinct but compendious descriptive information, will place within easy reach of the bird lover, a most valuable \"vade mecum\" of bird and bush lore for out of doors as well as a thing of beauty for the library.\"\nCayley’s aim in creating this work was to make available a book that would encourage and help people to learn about and appreciate Australia’s remarkable and unique bird life. He saw and responded to a need for a simple book that was accessible to the non-specialist birdwatcher. Each species was illustrated in colour and the birds were organised according to their usual habitat. The accompanying text included brief notes on distribution, breeding and behaviour.\n\nWhile initial sales were poor, history tells us that Cayley had accurately discerned a market need and successfully responded to it. During WWII sales accelerated and Cayley’s first collection, reprinted time and time again, eventually became a household name among birdwatchers and the book was recognised as an Australian classic.\n\nThe original sponsorship of \"What Bird is That?\" proved a great investment for the Gould League, who benefited from the sale of its numerous reprints and revised editions. By 1960, it was rated the all-time best seller in Australian natural history and is still in print today.\n\nWhile sales and stature of Cayley’s original collection continued to grow, the prolific artist and ornothologist Cayley was working on a much more ambitious project – his so-called “big bird book”. From about 1918, he was creating illustrations of subspecies, plumage stages and eggs (now lost) of all known Australian birds. The project was incomplete at the time of his death in 1950, although the illustrations were all but finished.\n\nThe ornithologist Terence Lindsey revived Cayley’s plans in the 1980s, creating the last and most significant revision of \"What Bird is That?\" It was published in 1984 and incorporated all of Cayley’s paintings created over many years for his vision of releasing a “big bird book” and included a revised taxonomy. In the 53 years since its first edition, more than a hundred new bird species had been identified in Australia. Scientific names had been changed and groups of birds had been reordered. Lindsey brought \"What Bird is That?\" up-to-date with the latest birding conventions of the time, as well as contributing a valuable supplementary list of birds and a scholarly catalogue of Cayley’s paintings.\n\nThe \"Signature Edition What Bird is That?\" was published by Australia's Heritage Publishing in 2011, the latest release of Cayley’s “big bird book” complete with Lindsey’s revisions. It is 832 pages, features 769 birds and includes all 460 of Cayley’s full-colour paintings, many showing groups of related birds. New to this edition was an accompanying e-book \"What Bird Call is That?\", which identifies and illustrates 101 birds from \"What Bird is That?\", as well as providing sound files of each featured bird’s distinctive call. The sound files were provided by David Stewart.\n\n\"What Bird is That?\" plays a central role in Australian author Nick Earls' 1999 young adult novel \"48 Shades of Brown\". The 48 shades refers to the number of distinct browns used by Cayley to describe bird plumage colours.\n\n"}
{"id": "13636770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13636770", "title": "William Sellers", "text": "William Sellers\n\nWilliam Sellers (September 19, 1824 – January 24, 1905) was a mechanical engineer, manufacturer, businessman, and inventor who filed more than 90 patents, most notably the design for the United States standard screw thread. As president of the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Sellers proposed the adoption of a system of screw threads which was easier for ordinary mechanics and machinists to cut than a similar design by Joseph Whitworth. For many years, he led the machine tool firm of William Sellers & Co., which was a very influential machine tool builder during the latter half of the 19th century.\n\nSellers was born in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania to John and Elizabeth (Poole) Sellers, into a Quaker family full of industrial and manufacturing innovators. His cousins include George Escol Sellers (1808–1899), an inventor holding patents for a hill-climbing locomotive, a pulp-paper process, converting steamboats to coal, and removing brine from salt water, and Coleman Sellers II (1827–1907), a five-term president of the Franklin Institute, who was instrumental in harnessing Niagara Falls for electricity.\n\nSellers was married in 1849 to Mary Ferris (1820–1870), with whom he had three children, Katherine (1852–1917), William (1856–1933), and Frances (1858–1859). He married again in 1873 to Amélie Haaszm (1842–1929), with whom he had another three children, Alexander (1875–1957), Richard (1881–1942), and Christine (1882–-1884). He died in his hometown on January 24, 1905 at the age of 81.\n\nAfter receiving a private education in a family-run school, he began apprenticing at age fourteen with his uncle, J. Morton Poole, in a machine shop near Wilmington, Delaware. After seven years, he moved to Providence, Rhode Island to run the shops of what eventually became the Corliss Steam Engine Company. Returning to West Philadelphia to start his own machine company, he eventually formed a partnership with his brother-in-law Edward Bancroft (1811–1855) in 1848. After Bancroft's death in 1855, Sellers incorporated as William Sellers & Co., which continued to operate until 1947 when it was sold to the Consolidated Machine Tool Corporation and relocated to Rochester, New York.\n\nIn 1847 Sellers was elected a member of the Franklin Institute, where he served as a member of the Board of Managers from 1857 to 1861 and again from 1864 to 1892, and as president from 1864 to 1867.\nAt a meeting on September 15, 1864, he presented a uniform system of screw threads which with its angle and its flat top and bottom differed from Whitworth's British standard. Within a few years, the system had been adopted by the government workshops, leading railroad companies, prominent machine tool builders and others, under the various names of the United States, Sellers, or Franklin Institute Systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23654620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23654620", "title": "Zagreb Points", "text": "Zagreb Points\n\nThe Zagreb Points () was the name of a resolution released on November 7, 1932, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia which condemned Serb hegemony in that country and called for a return to political life as it was in 1918.\n\nThe document was released after the January 6th Dictatorship of King Alexander resulted in new administrative subdivisions and a new royal constitution. It had the backing of the Peasant-Democrat Coalition and the Party of Rights. The document resulted in other parties producing the Novi Sad Points, Sarajevo Points (Yugoslav Muslim Organization) and Ljubljana Points (Slovene People's Party) to voice their demands for an end to the dictatorship. Croatian Peasant Party leader Vladko Maček was imprisoned for three years as a direct result of the document.\n\n\n\n"}
