{"id": "89821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89821", "title": "Ahmad ibn Fadlan", "text": "Ahmad ibn Fadlan\n\nIbn Fadlan ( \"Aḥmad ibn Faḍlān ibn al-ʿAbbās ibn Rāšid ibn Ḥammād\", 921–22) was a 10th-century Arab Muslim traveler, famous for his account of his travels as a member of an embassy of the Abbasid Caliph of Baghdad to the king of the Volga Bulgars, known as his \"Risala\" (\"account\" or \"journal\"). His account is most notable for providing a detailed description of the Volga Vikings, including an eyewitness account of a ship burial.\n\nPrimary sources documents and historical texts reveal that Ahmad Ibn Fadlan was a “faqih”, an expert in Islamic jurisprudence and faith, in the court of the Abbasid Caliph Al-Muqtadir. It appears certain from his writing that prior to his departure on his historic mission, he had already been serving for some time in the court of al-Muqtadir. Other than the fact that he was both a traveler and a theologian in service of the Abbasid Caliphate, little is known about Ahmad Ibn Fadlan prior to 921 and his self-reported travels.\n\nIbn Fadlan was sent from Baghdad in 921 to serve as the secretary to an ambassador from the Abbasid Caliph al-Muqtadir to the iltäbär (vassal-king under the Khazars) of the Volga Bulgaria, Almış.\n\nOn 21 June 921 (11 \"safar\" AH 309), a diplomatic party led by Susan al-Rassi, a eunuch in the caliph's court, left Baghdad. Primarily, the purpose of their mission was to explain Islamic law to the recently converted Bulgar peoples living on the eastern bank of the Volga River in what is now Russia. (These were the Volga Bulgars; another group of Bulgars had moved westward in the 6th century, invading the country that today bears their name, and became Christians.) Additionally, the embassy was sent in response to a request by the king of the Volga Bulgars to help them against their enemies, the Khazars. Ibn Fadlan served as the group's religious advisor and lead counselor for Islamic religious doctrine and law.\n\nAhmad Ibn Fadlan and the diplomatic party utilized established caravan routes toward Bukhara, now part of Uzbekistan, but instead of following that route all the way to the east, they turned northward in what is now northeastern Iran. Leaving the city of Gurgan near the Caspian Sea, they crossed lands belonging to a variety of Turkic peoples, notably the Khazar Khaganate, Oghuz Turks on the east coast of the Caspian, the Pechenegs on the Ural River, and the Bashkirs in what is now central Russia, but the largest portion of his account is dedicated to the Rus, i.e. the Varangians (Vikings) on the Volga trade route. All told, the delegation covered some 4000 kilometers (2500 mi).\n\nIbn Fadlan's envoy reached the Volga Bulgar capital on 12 May 922 (12 \"muharram\" AH 310). \nWhen they arrived, Ibn Fadlan read aloud a letter from the caliph to the Bulgar Khan, and presented him with gifts from the caliphate. At the meeting with the Bulgar ruler, Ibn Fadlan delivered the caliph's letter, but was criticized for not bringing with him the promised money from the caliph to build a fortress as defense against enemies of the Bulgars.\n\nFor a long time, only an incomplete version of the account was known, transmitted as quotations in the geographical dictionary of Yāqūt (under the headings Atil, Bashgird, Bulghār, Khazar, Khwārizm, Rūs), published in 1823 by Christian Martin Frähn.\n\nOnly in 1923 was a manuscript discovered by Zeki Validi Togan in the Astane Quds Museum, Mashhad, Iran. The manuscript, Razawi Library MS 5229, dates from the 13th century (7th century Hijra) and consists of 420 pages (210 folia). Besides other geographical treatises, it contains a fuller version of Ibn Fadlan's text (pp. 390–420). Additional passages not preserved in MS 5229 are quoted in the work of the 16th century Persian geographer Amīn Rāzī called \"Haft Iqlīm\" (\"Seven Climes\").\n\nNeither source seems to record Ibn Fadlān's complete report. Yāqūt offers excerpts, and several times claims that Ibn Fadlān also recounted his return to Bagdad, but does not quote such material. Meanwhile, the text in Razawi Library MS 5229 breaks off part way through describing the Khazars.\n\nOne noteworthy aspect of the Volga Bulgars that Ibn Fadlan focused on was their religion and the institution of Islam in these territories. The Bulgar king had invited religious instruction as a gesture of homage to the Abbasids in exchange for financial and military support, and Ibn Fadlan's mission as a \"faqih\" was one of proselytization as well as diplomacy.\n\nFor example, Ibn Fadlan details in his encounter that the Volga Bulgar Khan commits an error in his prayer exhortations by repeating the prayer twice. One scholar calls it an “illuminating episode” in the text where Ibn Fadlan expresses his great anger and disgust over the fact that the Khan and the Volga Bulgars in general are practicing some form of imperfect and doctrinally unsound Islam. In general, Ibn Fadlan recognized and judged the peoples of central Eurasia he encountered by the possession and practice of Islam, along with their efforts put forth to utilize, implement, and foster Islamic faith and social practice in their respective society. Consequently, many of the peoples and societies to Ibn Fadlan were \"like asses gone astray. They have no religious bonds with God, nor do they have recourse to reason\".\n\nA substantial portion of Ibn Fadlan's account is dedicated to the description of a people he called the \"Rūs\" (روس) or \"Rūsiyyah\". Western scholarship has generally assumed that he was describing Volga Vikings, the North Germanic tribes travelling the Volga trade route, though the identification of the people Ibn Fadlān describes is uncertain. The Rūs appear as traders who set up shop on the river banks nearby the Bolğar camp. They are described as having bodies tall as (date) palm-trees, with blond hair and ruddy skin. Each is tattooed from \"the tips of his toes to his neck\" with dark blue or dark green \"designs\" and all men are armed with an axe, sword and long knife.\n\nIbn Fadlan describes the Rus as \"perfect\" physical specimens and the hygiene of the \"Rūsiyyah\" as disgusting (while also noting with some astonishment that they comb their hair every day) and considers them vulgar and unsophisticated. In that, his account contrasts with that of the Persian traveler Ibn Rustah, whose impressions of the Rus were more favourable. He also describes in great detail the funeral of one of their chieftains (a ship burial involving rape and human sacrifice). Some scholars believe that it took place in the modern Balymer complex.\n\n\nIbn Fadlān is a major character in Michael Crichton's 1976 novel \"Eaters of the Dead\", which draws heavily in its opening passages on Ibn Fadlān's writing. Correspondingly, Ibn Fadlān is a character in the 1999 film adaptation of the novel, \"The Thirteenth Warrior\", played by Antonio Banderas.\n\nIbn Fadlān's journey is also the subject of the 2007 Syrian TV series \"Saqf al-Alam\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30202603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30202603", "title": "Anastas Ishirkov", "text": "Anastas Ishirkov\n\nAcademic professor Anastas Todorov Ishirkov (; 5 April 1868 – 6 April 1937) was Bulgarian scientist, geographer and ethnographer. He was the founder of geographical science in Bulgaria and was a member of Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIshirkov Crag on Oscar II Coast in Graham Land, Antarctica is named after Anastas Ishirkov.\n"}
{"id": "18590504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18590504", "title": "Bateshwar, Uttar Pradesh", "text": "Bateshwar, Uttar Pradesh\n\nBateshwar is a village in Agra District, on the banks of the river Yamuna in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Bateshwar is in between Agra and Etawah and is 5 km from Bah. It is an important spiritual and cultural centre for Hindus and Jains. It is known for the 101 Shiv Temple Complex. An annual religious and animal fair is also organised in the village ground area.\n\nThe name Bateshwar is derived from the main Bateshwarnath Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva (Bateshwarnath Mahadev). As per legends, here under a marvelous Banyan tree (Bat in Sanskrit), lord Shiva took rest for some time under that tree which is still standing at that place, the place hence came to be known as Bateshwar (i.e. Bat ishwar or The banyan lord).\n\nReaching Bateshwar is like cutting between the sand dunes of Chambal. Its view is terrific and will excite you more in Rainy Season. The area is less populated.\n\nBateshwar features a semiarid climate that borders on a humid subtropical climate. The village features mild winters, hot and dry summers and a monsoon season.\nSince ages Bateshwar remained a renowned religious centre both for Hindu and Jain communities. In the epic Mahabharat Bateshwar is supposed to be referred as Shouripur a city of king Suresaine. It is known for 101 Shiv Temples built by Raja Badan Singh Bhadauria on a dam on the banks of Yamuna. Shaouripur, near Bateshwar, which is the birthplace of the 22nd Tirthankar of Jain faith, Lord Neminath. Each year the region hosts a cattle fair in October and November. The commercial livestock event is also of significance to Hindus, who make pilgrimage to the river Yamuna in honor of Shiva.\n\nBateshwar has long been celebrated for its annual fair, believed to have been a fixture since time immemorial given the significance of Shoripur/Bateshwar in Hindu texts. Although the origins of this ancient fair are religious, and of immense importance in the Hindu religious calendar, the fair is also of great commercial value, and is renowned as the 2nd largest animal fair in the country (Sonepur in Bihar being the largest).\n\nThis teerth is the birthplace of 22nd Teerthankar of Jainism, Bhagwan Shri Neminath.\nFollowing are the temples present in the area:\n\nBaruva Matha: It is the most ancient temple of Shouripur, which is constructed on a platform. The quite magnificent Black stone’s Kayotsarga idol of principal deity Bhagwan Neminath was reverenced in 1953. This idol is 8 feet high. There is a spire made of stone above the idol and behind idol there is an artistic halo is present carved in stone. On the feet base (Charan Peeth) the two lions are constructed facing each other and in between these two there is an image of Conch shell.\nIn Yadav Jains, there is a tradition of lighting of ‘Diya’ on Kartik Shukla 14 here whenever there is death of any Yadav Jain takes place. Among Vaishnav Yadav Vanshi’s this ‘Diya’ is lighted in Bateshwar on waters of Yamuna River.\n\nShankha Dhwaj Mandir: This temple is constructed on the second story. There are 4 altars present in the sanctum of this temple. In central altar idol of principal deity Bhagwan Neminath are installed. There are two idols of 11th – 12th century installed in this temple and the idols of Bhagwan Parshvanath, Bhagwan Chandraprabhu & Bhagwan Vimalnath reverenced in V.S. 1357 (I. S. 1300) are collectively installed in the second altar of this temple. Many other artistic ancient idols are also installed here.\n\nPanch Mathi: On the left hand side of Shankha Dhwaj Mandir the ancient Tonks & spires (umbrellas) are constructed in one ground which is surrounded by walls from all sides. This place is called as Panch Mathi. The foot images of Muni ‘Yama’ & Muni ‘Dhanya’ are installed here.\n\nBateshwar Temples are the collection of 101 Shiv Temples built by Raja Badan Singh Bhadauria. These are called Bateshwar Temples because As per the legends, here under a marvelous Banyan tree (Bat in Sanskrit), lord Shiva took rest for some time under that tree which is still standing at that place, the place hence came to be known as Bateshwar (i.e. Bat ishwar or The banyan lord).\n\nBateshwar is connected by road and rail. The Agra - Bah Road passes through this town and has a major impact on the development. Bateshwar Halt railway station is a small halt station. Bandra Terminus - Ghazipur City Weekly Express and Agra Cantt. - Mainpuri DEMU (via Etawah) connects the town with Mumbai, Agra, Ghazipur, Mainpuri and Etawah. \n\nBateshwar is the ancestral village of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Vajpayee's first exposure to politics was in August 1942, when he and his elder brother Prem were arrested at Bateshwar for 23 days during the Quit India movement.\n"}
{"id": "5679170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679170", "title": "Beveridge Reef", "text": "Beveridge Reef\n\nBeveridge Reef is a submerged atoll located in the Exclusive Economic Zone of Niue, approximately 130 miles (209 km) from Niue and 600 miles (966 km) from the Cook Islands. The reef is normally submerged, with a small part is visible at low tide. It has been the cause of several fishing boats running aground. \n\nThe wreck of the \"Nicky Lou\" of Seattle, a fiberglass hulled fishing vessel that ran aground on the reef, can be seen on the reef.\n\nElsdon Best reported that \"according to native tradition at Rarotonga, the Beveridge Reef was once a fine isle, with many coconut-palms growing thereon, but that it was swept bare by a fierce hurricane, which carried away both trees and soil, leaving nothing but the bare rock.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4446010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4446010", "title": "Blue Mountain Peak", "text": "Blue Mountain Peak\n\nBlue Mountain Peak is the highest mountain in Jamaica and one of the highest peaks in the Caribbean at 2,256 metres (7,402 ft). It is the home of Blue Mountain coffee and their famous tours. It is located on the border of the Portland and Saint Thomas parishes of Jamaica.\n\nThe Blue Mountains are considered by many to be a hiker's and camper's paradise. The traditional Blue Mountain trek is a 7-mile (10 km) hike to the peak and consists of a 3,000-foot (1,000 m) increase in elevation. Jamaicans prefer to reach the peak at sunrise, thus the 3–4 hour hike is usually undertaken in darkness. Since the sky is usually very clear in the mornings, Cuba can be seen in the distance. Some of the plants found on the Blue Mountain cannot be found anywhere else in the world and they are often of a dwarfed sort. This is mainly due to the cold climate which inhibits growth. \nThe small coffee farming communities of Claverty Cottage and Hagley Gap are located near the peak.\n\n"}
{"id": "9979199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9979199", "title": "Campaniacum", "text": "Campaniacum\n\nCampaniacum is the etymon inferred from numerous toponyms in France. The \"Toponymie générale de la France\" (\"TGF\") derives it from a Roman personal name \"Campanius\" and the Gaulish suffix -acum. The \"-i-\" (which is important in the phonetic evolution of *\"Campaniacum\") suggests that \"Campanius\" is a \"gens\" name.\n\nThe modern forms differ according to the diverse phonetic evolutions of the local dialects.\n\n\nThe initial /ka/ of \"*Campaniacum\" became /ʃa/ (written \"Cha\") in most of Gaul, both in langue d'oïl dialects and the northern langue d'oc dialects; but north of the Joret line, and most Langue d'oc dialects (southern one) /ka/ (written \"Ca-\") was preserved.\n\nIn the form \"Champigny\", Gaston Zink offered an explanation for the sequence \"ign\" in place of the expected \"agn\": before the palatal consonant /ɲ/, the /a/ shifted to /e/, which in turn closed to /i/; Zink points out the parallel form \"(fungum) campaniolum\" ('mushroom') which became \"champegneul\" in Old French and \"champignon\" (with substitution of suffix) in modern French. This shift is restricted to central langue d'oïl.\n\n"}
{"id": "2317128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2317128", "title": "Caribbean Current", "text": "Caribbean Current\n\nThe Caribbean Current is a warm ocean current that transports significant amounts of water and flows northwestward through the Caribbean from the east along the coast of South America and into the Gulf of Mexico. The current results from the flow of the Atlantic South Equatorial Current as it flows north along the coast of Brazil. As the current turns north through the Yucatán Channel, it is renamed the Yucatán Current. The Caribbean Current water comes from the Atlantic Ocean via the North Equatorial, North Brazil, and Guiana Currents. The circulation of the Columbia-Panama Gyre flows counter-clockwise to the Caribbean Current.\n\n"}
{"id": "45311450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45311450", "title": "Eastern Anatolian montane steppe", "text": "Eastern Anatolian montane steppe\n\nThe Eastern Anatolian steppe is a Palearctic ecoregion in the Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands Biome.\n\nIt is located in the Anatolia region section of eastern Turkey, Armenia, and northwestern Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "17503969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17503969", "title": "EnMAP", "text": "EnMAP\n\nEnMAP (\"Environmental Mapping and Analysis Program\") is a German hyperspectral satellite mission to provide high accuracy hyperspectral image data of the Earth surface on a timely and frequent basis.\n\nUnder the scientific lead of the German Research Centre for Geosciences (GFZ) the mission is managed by the Space Agency of the German Aerospace Center (DLR). The Hyperspectral Imager (HSI) will be developed by OHB-System AG which is also responsible for the development of the satellite bus. The ground segment will be developed and operated by the German Aerospace Center (DLR). The envisaged launch of the EnMAP satellite is 2020 using the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle of Indian space agency ISRO.\n\nEnMAP records data via a sun-synchronous orbit at a height of 653 km above the Earth. The satellite provides a high resolution hyperspectral imager capable of resolving 230 spectral bands from 420 to 2450 nm with a ground resolution of 30 m x 30 m. The swath width amounts to 30 km at a maximum swath length of up to 5000 km a day. The off-nadir (+/- 30°) pointing feature enables fast target revisit of 4 days.\n\nEnMAP is designed to record bio-physical, bio-chemical and geo-chemical variables on a global basis and thus, to increase our understanding of biospheric /geospheric processes and to ensure the sustainability of our resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "42742681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42742681", "title": "Environmental hormones", "text": "Environmental hormones\n\nEnvironmental hormones are chemical compounds that resembles endocrine hormones. They may be either of natural origin, such as phytoestrogens, or of synthetic origin. These compounds are able to activate the same endocrine receptors as their natural counterparts and can thus disrupt hormonal activity. \n"}
{"id": "10066222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066222", "title": "Field system", "text": "Field system\n\nThe study of field systems (collections of fields) in landscape history is concerned with the size, shape and orientation of a number of fields. These are often adjacent, but may be separated by a later feature.\nIn the Czech Republic (ancient Bohemia, Moravia and Czech Silesia), Ervín Černý undertook a study of medieval field systems.\nAlthough agriculture was practised earlier, the earliest recognisable field systems in England are neolithic. Cairnfields, which are pre-historic in date, are found in upland areas. They contain scattered stones and boulders and originated in surface clearance for agriculture.\n\nSo called Celtic fields can date from the Bronze Age through to the early Middle Ages. These fields are typically small and rectangular. They are frequently coaxial - that is they form a system in which the boundaries of adjacent fields make a series of long, roughly parallel lines. The extensive coaxial field systems established by the Romans are described as centuriation.\nOpen fields were very large fields in which many individual farmers cultivated their own strips. These were a frequently found feature in the Midlands but less so in the South-east and West country. No documents survive which explain how and when the change to open fields took place, but signs of the change are apparent in some areas in the 8th, 9th or 10th centuries. The use of open fields began to decline in the 15th century. The landscape of open fields was frequently called \"champion country\".\n\nIn England, enclosure of open fields during the 18th and 19th century produced field systems with larger rectangular fields, often with blackthorn hedges. Adjacent areas were often enclosed at different times, leading to a change in orientation of the field systems between the two areas. The pattern of ridge and furrow will often reveal the layout of the original open fields.\n\nIn parts of England where enclosure took place early (or which were never enclosed), fields are often small and have an irregular shape, sometimes described as \"pocket handkerchief\".\n\nRecent changes of agricultural practice are eliminating old field boundaries, particularly by removing hedges, to produce much larger fields reminiscent of traditional open fields.\n\nThe most famous ancient field system in Ireland is the Céide Fields, an extensive series of stone walls dating back to 3500 BC. Similar stone wall field systems dating back to the Atlantic Bronze Age are visible in western Ireland and on the Aran Islands.\n\nThe primitive ard plough used in Gaelic Ireland only scratched the surface of the soil, so cross-ploughing was necessary to break up the earth better. This favoured square fields, so groups of square-shaped fields are likely to have been laid out in the pre-Norman period. The Normans brought the heavy plough to Ireland in the 12th century. This favoured long rectangular fields, so groups of fields with that shape are likely to postdate the Norman invasion of Ireland.\n\nThe open-field system (\"champion system\") predominated in medieval Ireland. In the better land of the eastern part of the island, a manorial system similar to that of the rest of Europe as practiced. Strips of land belonging to the village farmers lay in two or three enormous open fields, each cultivated with the same crop on an agreed cycle — typically a three-year cycle of cereal, then legume, then fallow.\n\nIn marginal land (especially the high-rainfall west of Ireland), the rundale system was used. The land was divided into discontinuous plots, and cultivated and occupied by a number of tenants to whom it is leased jointly. Houses were clustered in a clachán on the better land (\"infield\"), which was surrounded by mountainous or grazing land of lower quality (\"outfield\") where livestock (sheep, cattle) were grazed during summer or dry periods (booleying). Only the infield was fertilised with manure. The outfield might be used to grow oats after a few years of lying fallow.\n\nThe present system of fields in Ireland dates to the 17th–18th century onwards, with enclosure of land by ditches (stone-and-sod banks) and hedgerows (made of hawthorn, beech and sycamore), with a centrally located farmhouse and farmyard, being the hallmark of \"improvement.\" Rapid population expansion prior to the Great Famine (1845–49) resulted in fragmentation of farms and fields. After the famine, continuous emigration resulted in consolidation or abandonment of fields. Relicts of these deserted villages and clacháns are still visible in the form of lazy beds and drystone walls.\n\nThe hedgerows that divide most of the fields of Ireland are estimated to run for over and cover a greater land area than forests or national parks.\n\nWhere early fields survive in Wales, most are associated with settlement features that indicate an Iron Age or Romano-British date. However buried soils as well peat pollen cores indicate earlier land-use of these areas and radiocarbon dates suggest a limited amount of woodland clearance as early as the Later Mesolithic \n\nThe boundaries of earlier field systems that have fallen out of use, can sometimes be deduced by studying earthworks (lumps and bumps), cropmarks or by using geophysics. Studying early maps will often show the field system in use at the time the map was prepared. From the mid 17th century, landowners began to commission estate maps that show the size and layout of the fields they own. However, for many English parishes, the earliest written evidence of their field system is from the enclosure maps or tithe maps. It is often possible to draw conclusions about relative age by looking at how field boundaries meet. Later boundaries will often abut, but not cross earlier boundaries.\n\nFields were organised for the convenience of the farmer - both arable and pastoral. Therefore, the size of fields often gives an indication of the type of agriculture and agricultural implements in use when they were established. The shape and orientation of collections of fields provides clues about the date they were established. Field systems can give an indication of land ownership and social structure. The extent to which the field system respects other features (or not) can be used as dating evidence for the other features or the field system itself. For example, a field system that doesn't respect a Roman road is likely to predate it. Similarly, a feature that respects medieval ridge and furrow is likely to post date it.\n\nThe Rodings (the largest group of parishes in England to bear a common name) was investigated by Steven Basset. Basset showed that a broadly rectilinear field system (and other features such as roads) continued across parish boundaries thus showing that the field system pre-dated the formation of parishes. He therefore concluded that they had originally been a single estate.\n\n"}
{"id": "15662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15662", "title": "Geography of Jamaica", "text": "Geography of Jamaica\n\nJamaica lies south of Cuba and west of Haiti. At its greatest extent, Jamaica is long, and its width varies between . With an area of , Jamaica is the largest island of the Commonwealth Caribbean and the third largest of the Greater Antilles, after Cuba and Hispaniola. Many small islands are located along the south coast of Jamaica, such as the Port Royal Cays. Southwest of mainland Jamaica lies Pedro Bank, an area of shallow seas, with a number of cays (low islands or reefs), extending generally east to west for over . To the southeast lies Morant Bank, with the Morant Cays, from Morant Point, the easternmost point of mainland Jamaica. Alice Shoal, southwest of the main island of Jamaica, falls within the Jamaica–Colombia Joint Regime.\n\nJamaica and the other islands of the Antilles evolved from an arc of ancient volcanoes that rose from the sea millions of years ago. During periods of submersion, thick layers of limestone were laid down over the old igneous and metamorphic rock. In many places, the limestone is thousands of feet thick. The country can be divided into three landform regions: the central mountain chain formed by igneous and metamorphic rocks; the karst limestone hills in the Cockpit area; the low-lying coastal plains and interior valleys.\n\nThe highest area is the Blue Mountains range. These eastern mountains are formed by a central ridge of metamorphic rock running northwest to southeast from which many long spurs jut to the north and south. For a distance of over , the crest of the ridge exceeds . The highest point is Blue Mountain Peak at . The Blue Mountains rise to these elevations from the coastal plain in the space of about , thus producing one of the steepest general gradients in the world. In this part of the country, the old metamorphic rock reveals itself through the surrounding limestone. To the north of the Blue Mountains lies the strongly tilted limestone plateau forming the John Crow Mountains. This range rises to elevations of over . To the west, in the central part of the country, are two high rolling plateaus: the Dry Harbour Mountains to the north and the Manchester Plateau to the south. Between the two, the land is rugged and here, also, the limestone layers are broken by the older rocks. Streams that rise in the region flow outward and sink soon after reaching the limestone layers.\n\nThe limestone plateau covers two-thirds of the country, so that karst formations dominate the island. Karst is formed by the erosion of the limestone in solution. Sinkholes, caves and caverns, disappearing streams, hummocky hills, and terra rosa (residual red) soils in the valleys are distinguishing features of a karst landscape; all these are present in Jamaica. To the west of the mountains is the rugged terrain of the Cockpit Country, one of the world's most dramatic examples of karst topography.\n\nThe Cockpit Country is pockmarked with steep-sided hollows, as much as deep in places, which are separated by conical hills and ridges. On the north, the main defining feature is the fault-based \"Escarpment\", a long ridge that extends from Flagstaff in the west, through Windsor in the centre, to Campbells and the start of the Barbecue Bottom Road (B10). The Barbecue Bottom Road, which runs north-south, high along the side of a deep, fault-based valley in the east, is the only drivable route across the Cockpit Country. However, there are two old, historical trails that cross further west, the Troy Trail, and the Quick Step Trail, both of which are seldom used and difficult to find. In the southwest, near Quick Step, is the district known as the \"Land of Look Behind,\" so named because Spanish horsemen venturing into this region of hostile runaway slaves were said to have ridden two to a mount, one rider facing to the rear to keep a precautionary watch. Where the ridges between sinkholes in the plateau area have dissolved, flat-bottomed basins or valleys have been formed that are filled with terra rosa soils, some of the most productive on the island. The largest basin is the Vale of Clarendon, long and wide. Queen of Spains Valley, Nassau Valley, and Cave Valley were formed by the same process.\n\nThe coastline of Jamaica is one of many contrasts. The northeast shore is severely eroded by the ocean. There are many small inlets in the rugged coastline, but no coastal plain of any extent. A narrow strip of plains along the northern coast offers calm seas and white sand beaches. Behind the beaches is a flat raised plain of uplifted coral reef.\n\nThe southern coast has small stretches of plains lined by black sand beaches. These are backed by cliffs of limestone where the plateaus end. In many stretches with no coastal plain, the cliffs drop straight to the sea. In the southwest, broad plains stretch inland for a number of kilometres. The Black River courses through the largest of these plains. The swamplands of the Great Morass and the Upper Morass fill much of the plains. The western coastline contains the island's finest beaches.\n\nTwo types of climate are found in Jamaica. An upland tropical climate prevails on the windward side of the mountains, whereas a semiarid climate predominates on the leeward side. Warm trade winds from the east and northeast bring rainfall throughout the year. The rainfall is heaviest from May to October, with peaks in those two months. The average rainfall is per year. Rainfall is much greater in the mountain areas facing the north and east, however. Where the higher elevations of the John Crow Mountains and the Blue Mountains catch the rain from the moisture-laden winds, rainfall exceeds per year. Since the southwestern half of the island lies in the rain shadow of the mountains, it has a semiarid climate and receives fewer than of rainfall annually.\n\nTemperatures in Jamaica are fairly constant throughout the year, averaging in the lowlands and at higher elevations. Temperatures may dip to below at the peaks of the Blue Mountains. The island receives, in addition to the northeast trade winds, refreshing onshore breezes during the day and cooling offshore breezes at night. These are known on Jamaica as the \"Doctor Breeze\" and the \"Undertaker's Breeze,\" respectively.\n\nJamaica lies in the Atlantic hurricane belt; as a result, the island sometimes experiences significant storm damage. Powerful hurricanes which have hit the island directly causing death and destruction include Hurricane Charlie in 1951 and Hurricane Gilbert in 1988. Several other powerful hurricanes have passed near to the island with damaging effects. In 1980, for example, Hurricane Allen destroyed nearly all Jamaica's banana crop. Hurricane Ivan (2004) swept past the island causing heavy damage and a number of deaths; in 2005, Hurricanes Dennis and Emily brought heavy rains to the island. A Category 4 hurricane, Hurricane Dean, caused some deaths and heavy damage to Jamaica in August 2007.\n\nThe first recorded hurricane to hit Jamaica was in 1519. The island has been struck by tropical cyclones regularly. During two of the coldest periods in the last 250 years (1780s and 1810s), the frequency of hurricanes in the Jamaica region was unusually high. Another peak of activity occurred in the 1910s, the coldest decade of the 20th century. On the other hand, hurricane formation was greatly diminished from 1968 to 1994, which for some reason coincides with the great Sahel drought.\n\nAlthough most of Jamaica's native vegetation has been stripped in order to make room for cultivation, some areas have been left virtually undisturbed since the time of Columbus. Indigenous vegetation can be found along the northern coast from Rio Bueno to Discovery Bay, in the highest parts of the Blue Mountains, and in the heart of the Cockpit Country.\n\nAs in the case of vegetation, considerable loss of wildlife has occurred beginning with the settlement of native peoples in the region millennia ago. For example, the only pinniped ever known to the Caribbean, the Caribbean monk seal once occurred in Jamaican waters and has now been driven to extinction. Mongoose (Herpestes auropunctatus), introduced to Jamaica in 1872 to reduce rat populations that damaged commercial sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) crops, prey on several Jamaican species, including the critically endangered, Jamaican iguana (Cyclura collei), and have been implicated in the historical population declines and extinctions of many others. Other wildlife species inhabiting the island include, the West Indian Manatee (Trichechus manatus), American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), and the endemic Homerus Swallowtail (Papilio homerus),which is the largest butterfly species in the Western Hemisphere. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31868114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31868114", "title": "Geography of netball", "text": "Geography of netball\n\nNetball is a popular participant sport in some parts of the world, particularly in countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. According to the IFNA, over 20 million people play netball in more than 72 countries. IFNA member nations are divided into five regional groups: Africa, America, Asia, Europe and Oceania.\n\nNetball is a popular women's sport in parts of Africa. Several African nations are ranked amongst the top twenty-five in the world. As of August 2015, South Africa was ranked number five, Malawi was ranked number six, Uganda was ranked thirteen, Zambia was ranked seventeen, Botswana was ranked nineteen in the world. \n\nIn South Africa participation rates are high, with 40% of African girls rating netball as their favourite sport in 2002, although many African girls claiming netball as their favourite sport had never played it. South Africa was part of the 1960 meeting of Commonwealth countries in Sri Lanka that standardised the rules for the game. From 1969 to 1994, South Africa was expelled from competing internationally in netball due to its apartheid policies. During the 1995 Netball World Championships South Africa scored an upset win over New Zealand in pool play and finished second behind Australia. In 2000, New Zealand's national side toured South Africa for the first time, playing three test matches. In 2001, a Tri-Nations Series was launched between Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, which was also won by New Zealand.\nNetball is the most popular women's sport in Botswana, Malawi and Tanzania. In Botswana netball is primarily played by women, with men traditionally serving as officials, coaches and administrators for the sport. There are also a few men-only teams, although many were discontinued in the 2000s in favour of mixed-gender teams. The Botswana Netball Association as founded in the 1970s and is the national organisation responsible for netball in Botswana. Netball was introduced to Tanzania after World War I, when the country was under British colonial rule. All primary schools in the country have a court and children are generally recruited to high level teams at a young age. The Netball Association of Tanzania (CHANETA) was created in 1966 and has been mostly run by women, although men can play a role in coaching. During the 1970s and 1980s, the International Olympic Committee and the British Council promoted netball in Tanzania, but were unwilling to investment money. Economic liberalisation saw the popularity of netball decline during the 1990s, and recent attempts to raise netball's popularity have been slow as sport is culturally more acceptable for men. The Tanzanian national netball team finished in third place at the 2010 Nations Cup.\n\nThe IFNA covers 54 nations within the Americas, 13 of which have their own national governing bodies. Each year, the region hosts two tournaments: the CNA U16 Championship and the AFNA Senior Championship. Netball is most popular in Commonwealth countries, such as Antigua and Barbuda and Grenada. As of August 2015, several teams in the region ranked amongst the top 25 in the world, including Jamaica (4th), Trinidad & Tobago (9th) Barbados (11th), Saint Lucia (18th), Canada (21st), and the United States of America (25th). \n\nNetball has been played in Jamaica since 1909, mostly at schools and teachers' training colleges. Once graduated, players created club sides for casual play, expanding the game throughout the country. During the 1930s, the major national competition was the ISSA Cup with seven teams. One of the teams, Wolmer's Old Girls Association (W.O.G.A.), built the first hard netball court in Jamaica. Pancho Rankine, Margaret Beckford and Margarietta St. Juste created the Jamaica Netball Association in 1959 and the organisation became affiliated to the West Indies Netball Board. They formed a national team to compete in the West Indies Tournament that was held in Montserrat in August 1959. In 1960, a member of the All England Netball Association went to Jamaica to coach, lecture and test umpires. Two years later, an English team toured the West Indies, beating Jamaica, Trinidad and the West Indies. In 1967, a team representing Greater London toured Jamaica, winning all their matches on the tour. In 1970, a team of British Students toured the Bahamas and Jamaica. Later that year, Jamaica's national team toured England. The third World Tournament was held in Kingston, Jamaica in 1971. Jamaica's national association protested against South Africa's apartheid policies, banning players who participated in the 1973 English tour of South Africa.\n\nNetball's popularity in the United States increased during the 1970s, particularly in the New York area. In 1992 the first national championship was held and in 1995 the USA's first international game was played against England at the Netball World Championship in Birmingham. In 2003, the country was ranked 9th in the world, however in 2015 the country is ranked 25th in the world. Canada has both men's and women's national teams.\n\nIn 2007, Netball America, now the largest Netball Association in the USA, was founded by Steve Anderson, Moreen Logsdon, Jo O'Key, and Sonya Ottaway. Netball America is sanctioned by the United States International University Sports Federation to host the 2nd World University Netball Championship in Miami 2016. Netball America also sent the first team of American Citizens to the inaugural World University Netball Championship in South Africa in 2012. The Netball America University Team is currently ranked 8th in the World. Twelve nations will be competing at the 2016 FISU World University Netball Championship in Miami, Florida. Netball America is the leader in bringing Netball to the USA and has seen the introduction of Netball into US educational systems (New York City, Florida, New Hampshire, Tampa and Miami) and also has introduced Netball across 33 US States. In addition to being the host for the World University Netball Championship, Netball America is also the host of the Disney International Youth Tournament and the World Out Games that will have 17,000 athletes descend upon Miami in May 2017, and Netball America petitioned to get Netball included as a new sport to the games that support the LGBT community\n\nNetball is popular in several parts of Asia. The IFNA Asia region includes countries such as Australia (geopolitically considered part of Oceania), India, Malaysia, Singapore and Sri Lanka. The major regional competition is the Asian Netball Championship. In 1994, the first Asian Youth Championship was held in Hong Kong.\nNetball has the highest participation rate of any team sport—male or female—in Australia, but it is not a large spectator following. In 2005 and 2006, netball was the 10th most popular spectator sport for women after tennis. Netball was brought to Australia by English school teachers, with a team having been organised by 1904 at Parramatta Superior Schools. In 1927, a national federation for the sport, Australian Women's Basketball Association, was created. Australia's national team toured England in 1957, which resulted in a number of Commonwealth countries organising a meeting to try to standardise the rules of the game.\n\nIn Australia 80% of netball is played at netball clubs, although the number of netball clubs around Australia has been in decline since the 1940s. Currently there are around 350,000 registered players and over 1.2 million total players in the country. Prior to the establishment of the ANZ Championship, the National Netball League was the major competition in Australia. It included teams from the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. The Australian national netball team won the first world championships in 1963 in England, and nine of the twelve Netball World Championships to date. As of August 2015, the national team is ranked first on the INF World Rankings. The country set an attendance record for a netball match with a crowd of 14,339 at the Australia – New Zealand Netball Test held at the Sydney SuperDome game in 2004.\n\nWomen started playing netball in India as early as 1926. The Sports Authority of India and the Government of India has provided funded for the country's youth national team. In 2001 India's national team competed in the fifth Asian Netball Championship in Colombo, Sri Lanka. Important netball competitions held in India include the 2010 Commonwealth Games, and the 7th Asian Youth Netball Championship. The Indian national netball team's best results have been placing sixth at the 2010 Nations Cup and fourth at the 2010 Asian Youth Netball Championship.\nNetball is the most popular women's sport in Malaysia. The national organisation, the Malaysian Netball Association, was created in 1978 and the sport is part of the national curriculum beginning at year 3. In 1998, 113 districts held netball competitions, and there were 1,718 registered netball teams in the country. In 2001, netball was sufficiently popular in South East Asia for it to be included in the 21st Southeast Asian Games in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia had a national team compete in the fifth Asian Netball Championship in Colombo in 2001. As of August 2015, the women's national team was ranked number twenty-two in the world.\n\nNetball Singapore is the official governing body for the sport in Singapore. It was created in 1962, with 63 registered clubs and now governs 80,000 netball players. The national team competed in its first major tournament in 1967 at the Netball World Championships and sent a team to the fifth Asian Netball Championship in Colombo. As of August 2015, the women's national team was ranked number fifteen in the world.\n\nNetball was first played in Sri Lanka by Ceylon Girl Guide Company at Kandy High School in 1921. In 1927, netball was played at a Government Training College for the first time, helping to spread the game around Sri Lanka. By 1952, Sri Lankan clubs were playing Indian club sides. In 1956, Sri Lanka played its first international match against Australia's national team in Sri Lanka. The 1960 netball meeting of Commonwealth countries to try to standardise the rules for the game took place in Sri Lanka. The Netball Federation of Sri Lanka was created in 1972, before being dissolved by the government in 1983. Sri Lanka had a national team compete in the fifth Asian Netball Championship held in Colombo. As of August 2015, the women's national team was ranked number twenty-four in the world.\n\nNetball is primarily played in Commonwealth countries, which were heavily involved in standardising the rules for netball. The Federation of European Netball Associations (FENA), sometimes referred to as Netball Europe, is the governing body for netball in the Europe netball region. The organisation was created in 1989/1990. As of August 2015, the English women's national team was ranked number three in the world, Wales is ranked number eight, Scotland is ranked number ten, and Northern Ireland is ranked number twelve. The major netball competition in Europe is the Netball Superleague and features nine to ten teams from all areas of Britain.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, netball has traditionally been managed by women. In England, netball is included as part of the physical education curriculum. Its inclusion had been at times controversial; during the 1910s and 1920s, schools worried about the potential negative impact of physical exercise on the health of girls. The Welsh Netball Association (Cymdeithas Pêl Rwyd Cymru) was created in 1945. The WNA is responsible for national championships, Welsh squad selection, international matches, the training and development of players, coaches, and umpires and for the Sport Wales National Centre Netball Academy, Cardiff. The Welsh Netball Association is based in Pontcanna, Cardiff. Like other national associations, the Welsh have created a modified version of the game for children called \"Dragon Netball\". The rate of comparative participation for netball to other sports differs from key-stage to key-stage (year levels in school) in Northern Ireland. In Northern Ireland, about 1,300 women play competitive netball in club-based leagues.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, netball is one of the most popular sports played by women. Women's sport in Oceania has traditionally had a very low profile. Despite this, netball is popular in Oceania, with its growth partly because of New Zealand encouraging the game and providing money for the training of coaches, umpires and other netball development needs. Netball is one of the sports at the Pacific Games, a multi-sport event, with participation from countries around the South Pacific, that is held every four years. The popularity of netball is growing amongst men on the island countries in Oceania, because sport is an important way for villages to keep in touch with each other. The game's popularity can also be seen in local languages, where local words have been created to describe it. The Oceania Netball Federation (ONF) is the governing body for netball in the Oceania region.\n\nIn New Zealand, netball is the most popular women's participation sport. In 1984, there were 114,210 players and currently there are over 11,000 teams and 120,440 players. The only sport with more players is golf, which has 128,860 male and female players. Ninety-eight percent of New Zealand netball players are female. The sports with the next highest rates of female participation are field hockey and horse racing, both at sixty-four percent. Netball is extremely popular amongst Māori women, who are more active in sport in general than their white counterparts. New Zealand took part in the 1960 netball meeting of Commonwealth countries to try to standardise the rules for the game. New Zealand has a history of netball being a spectator sport with the games being televised on Television New Zealand. The 1999 Netball World Championships final between Australia and New Zealand was the highest rated program ever on New Zealand television. New Zealand also has a men's national team that has competed in the 2009 and 2011 International Challenge Men's and Mixed Netball Tournament. As of August 2015, the women's national team was ranked number two in the world.\nThe Cook Islands are a major netball playing country in Oceania, with over 1,000 registered members. The game became popular during the 1970s, and is an important sport in the region. The country has participated at several international events including the Pacific Games, the Commonwealth Games, the Netball World Championships, the World Games, the Oceania Netball Tournament, the World Youth Netball Championship, and the International Challenge Men's and Mixed Netball Tournament. Netball has a lot of grass roots support and is an important part of life for many women on the islands. The sport's popularity is partly due to the influence of New Zealand, where Cook Island players have competed for New Zealand's national team. New Zealand worked hard to develop the sport in the country during the 1980s, when they hosted a number of coaching and umpiring clinics. The Cook Islands won the netball competition at the first South Pacific Games (now Pacific Games), held in 1981. In the 1990 Oceania Netball Tournament, the team beat New Zealand, Tonga and Fiji to come in second, behind Australia. As of August 2015, the women's national team was ranked number twenty-three in the world.\n\nWomen's participation in netball in Fiji is comparable to men's participation in rugby.\n\nThe sport started to grow in popularity during the 1970s. Fiji was supposed to host the 2007 World Netball Championship, but due to a military coup the IFNA decided to move the championship to Auckland. Netball has a large amount of grassroots support in Samoa. The sport started to grow in popularity during the 1970s. Games in Fiji and Samoa are most often played by girls on Saturdays during the winter, though games can be played at all times of the year. Samoa and Fiji are traditional netball rivals, competing against each other at events like the Pacific Games. As of August 2015, Samoa's national team was ranked number fourteen in the world and Fiji's was ranked number seven.\n\n"}
{"id": "58500975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58500975", "title": "Geology of Albania", "text": "Geology of Albania\n\nThe geology of Albania is a term that embodies the geological history of Albania. The Albanides represent the main geological structures on the territory of the country. They belong to the Alpide belt and stretches between the Dinarides in north and the Hellenides in south within the Mediterranean belt. \n\n"}
{"id": "59013732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59013732", "title": "Geology of Nicaragua", "text": "Geology of Nicaragua\n\nThe geology of Nicaragua includes Paleozoic crystalline basement rocks, Mesozoic intrusive igneous rocks and sedimentary rocks spanning the Cretaceous to the Pleistocene. Volcanoes erupted in the Paleogeneand within the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary, due to the subduction of the Cocos Plate, which drives melting and magma creation. Many of these volcanoes are in the Nicaraguan Depression paralleled by the northwest-trending Middle America Trench which marks the Caribbean-Cocos plate boundary. Almost all the rocks in Nicaragua originated as dominantly felsic continental crust, unlike other areas in the region which include stranded sections of mafic oceanic crust. Structural geologists have grouped all the rock units as the Chortis Block.\n\nVolcanism remains active in Nicaragua. The Masaya Caldera Complex erupted 460,000 and 50,000 years ago with the Las Sierras Formation as a Pliocene-Pleistocene basement rock. Massive pyroclastic and ignimbrite eruptions caused the caldera to collapse although most of the material it erupted has been basalt. Analysis of an eruption of the caldera in 1772 indicates perhaps the highest rate of lava effusion in Central America. Another active volcano is the San Cristobal Volcanic Complex in the northwest, which erupted in the 1500s and 1600s and again at a reduced level in 1971, with tholeiitic, calc-alkaline and andesite material.\n\nNicaragua has 94 metal deposits and 46 non-metallic deposits. It is the leading gold producer in Central America from deposits in Bonanza, La Libertad and Limon, in epithermal and mesothermal vein deposits, as well as skarn and placer deposits. Eight million ounces of gold have been extracted since 1930. Copper, zinc, silver, limestone, aggregate, clay and gypsum are also important resources.\n\nBetween 1943 and 1977, seismic and drilling surveys were done on the Miskito Basin off the eastern shore in search of oil.\n\nThe Momotombo geothermal field was discovered in 1970, 50 kilometers northeast of Managua adjacent to Momotombo Volcano. Thirty three wells were drilled by 1981 with more than 100 megawatts of energy potential.\n"}
{"id": "7736019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736019", "title": "Hemlock Falls", "text": "Hemlock Falls\n\nHemlock Falls is a waterfall located in Rabun County, Georgia. It is located in the Tallulah Ranger District of the Chattahoochee National Forest on Moccasin Creek. The Hemlock Trail is about one mile long, beginning at Moccasin Creek State Park and following an old railroad bed.\n\n"}
{"id": "47963327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47963327", "title": "Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol", "text": "Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol\n\nThe Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol is a tool that promotes and guides more sustainable hydropower projects. It is a methodology used to measure the performance of a hydropower project across more than twenty environmental, social, technical and economic topics.\n\nHydropower projects can have both a positive and a negative environmental and social impact. This is because the construction of a dam, power plant and reservoir creates certain social and physical changes in the area it effects. The protocol provides a common language to allow governments, civil society, financial institutions and the hydropower sector to talk about and evaluate sustainability issues.\n\nAssessments are based on objective evidence and the results are presented in a standardised way, to show how new projects are being developed or how existing facilities are performing.\n\nIt has been designed to work on projects and facilities anywhere in the world.\n\nThe Protocol is used by different hydropower stakeholders for different reasons.\n\nPopular uses include: \n\nCrédit Agricole, Societe Generale, Standard Chartered, Citi, and UBS now refer to the Protocol in their sector guidance.\n\nThe World Bank has analysed the value of the Protocol for use by their clients, concluding that it is a useful tool for guiding the development of sustainable hydropower in developing countries.\n\nThe International Institute for Environment and Development has reviewed social and environmental safeguards for large dam projects, concluding that the Protocol currently offers the best available ‘measuring stick’ for the World Commission on Dams provisions.\n\nA Protocol assessment takes place over a one-week period at the project site and provides a rapid sustainability check.\n\nA Protocol assessment does not replace an environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA), which takes place over a much longer period of time as a mandatory regulatory requirement. A Protocol assessment will, amongst other things, check the scope and quality of the ESIA which has been done.\n\nTo ensure high quality, all commercial use of the Protocol is carried out by accredited assessors. These assessors have significant experience of the hydropower sector or relevant sustainability issues, and have passed a rigorous accreditation course.\n\nThe Protocol can be used at any stage of hydropower development, from the early planning stages through to operation. Each project stage is assessed using a different tool: \n\nThe Protocol covers a range of topics that need to be understood to assess the overall sustainability of a hydropower project.\n\nThe name and range of topics changes slightly at different project stages.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Protocol also includes ‘cross-cutting issues’ such as climate change, gender, and human rights, which feature in multiple topics.\n\nFor each sustainability topic, performance is assessed against a range of criteria at two levels: basic good practice and proven best practice.\n\nA multi-stakeholder forum developed the Protocol between 2008 and 2010.\n\nThe following key group were represented: social and environmental NGOs, governments of developed and developing countries, financial institutions, development banks, and the hydropower industry.\n\nThe forum jointly reviewed, enhanced and built consensus on what a sustainable hydropower project should look like.\n\nPolicies taken into account included the World Commission on Dams’ Criteria and Guidelines, World Bank Safeguard Policies, IFC Performance Standards, and the Equator Principles.\n\nA draft of the Protocol was released in 2009, which was trialled in 16 countries across six continents and subjected to further consultation involving 1,933 individual stakeholders from 28 countries.\n\nThe final version was produced in 2010.\n\nThe diversity of the forum was important to ensure that the Protocol became globally applicable and universally accepted. Diversity also ensured that the multiple perspectives and stakeholder interests surrounding a hydropower project were incorporated into the document.\n\nThe Protocol is governed by a multi-stakeholder body, the Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Council (HSA Council).\n\nThe mission of the Council is to ensure multi-stakeholder input and confidence in the Protocol's content and application.\n\nAll individuals and organisations engaged in hydropower are welcome and encouraged to join the Council. This approach to governance ensures that all stakeholder voices are heard in the shaping of the use of the Protocol and its future development.\n\nThe Council consists of a series of Chambers, each representing a different segment of hydropower stakeholders. Each chamber elects a chair and alternate chair for a two-year term. The chamber chairs come together regularly to form the decision-making Protocol Governance Committee. The current Governance Committee (elected May 2015) is shown in the table below.\n"}
{"id": "17417847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17417847", "title": "ISO 3166-2:CM", "text": "ISO 3166-2:CM\n\nISO 3166-2:CM is the entry for Cameroon in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Cameroon, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 10 regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Cameroon. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10749771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10749771", "title": "ISO 3166-2:DM", "text": "ISO 3166-2:DM\n\nISO 3166-2:DM is the entry for Dominica in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Dominica, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 10 parishes.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Dominica. The second part is two digits (02–11).\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20646158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646158", "title": "Index of Saint Barthélemy-related articles", "text": "Index of Saint Barthélemy-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the French overseas collectivity of Saint Barthélemy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29871721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29871721", "title": "Index of Thailand-related articles T to Z", "text": "Index of Thailand-related articles T to Z\n\nThis is a list of articles related to Thailand, sorted by alphabetical order. It represents the majority of articles contained within the . For a list of key articles arranged by topic, see Outline of Thailand.\n\nThose interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages listed here by clicking on the link in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "509766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509766", "title": "Insular area", "text": "Insular area\n\nAn insular area of the United States is a U.S. territory that is neither a part of one of the 50 states nor of a Federal district. of the United States Constitution grants to United States Congress the responsibility of overseeing these territories, of which there are currently 14—three in the Caribbean Sea and 11 in the Pacific Ocean. These territories are classified by whether they are incorporated (by Congress extending the full body of the Constitution to the territory as it applies to the several states), and whether they have an organized territorial government established by the U.S. Congress through an Organic Act. All territories but one are unincorporated, and all but four are considered to be unorganized. Five U.S. territories have a permanent, nonmilitary population. Each of them has a civilian government, a constitution, and enjoys some degree of local political autonomy.\n\nCongress has extended citizenship rights by birth to all inhabited territories except American Samoa, and these citizens may vote and run for office in any U.S. jurisdiction in which they are residents. The people of American Samoa are U.S. nationals by place of birth, or they are U.S. citizens by parentage, or naturalization after residing in a State for three months. Nationals are free to move around and seek employment within the United States without immigration restrictions but cannot vote or hold office outside American Samoa.\n\nResidents of the five major populated insular areas do not pay U.S. federal income taxes but are required to pay other U.S. federal taxes such as import/export taxes, federal commodity taxes, social security taxes, etc. Individuals working for the federal government pay federal income taxes while all residents are required to pay federal payroll taxes (Social Security and Medicare). According to IRS Publication 570, income from other U.S. Pacific Ocean insular areas (Howland, Baker, Jarvis, Johnston, Midway, Palmyra, and Wake Islands, and Kingman Reef) is fully taxable as income of United States residents.\n\nThe U.S. State Department uses the term insular area to refer not only to territories under the sovereignty of the United States, but also those independent nations that have signed a Compact of Free Association with the United States. While these nations participate in many otherwise domestic programs, and full responsibility for their military defense rests with the United States, they are legally distinct from the United States and their inhabitants are not United States citizens or nationals.\n\nThe following islands, or island groups, are considered insular areas of the United States:\n\n\"None\"\n\nOne (uninhabited)\n\nFour (all inhabited)\n\nEleven (one inhabited, ten uninhabited)\n\nFrom July 18, 1947 until October 1, 1994, the U.S. administered the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, a United Nations Trust Territory. Later the U.S. entered into new political relationships with each of the four political units. One is the Northern Mariana Islands listed above. The others being the three freely associated states below. The freely associated states are the three sovereign states with a Compact of Free Association with the United States where the U.S. provides national defense, funding, and access to social services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21105626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21105626", "title": "Isu, Nigeria", "text": "Isu, Nigeria\n\nIsu is a local government area in the Imo State of Nigeria.\nIts headquarters are in the town of Umundugba. Other communities are Amandugba, Ekwe, Uburu Ekwe, Isunjaba, Amurie Omanze, Ebenator Ekwe and Oboro Amurie.\nThe name comes from the Isu people, a subgroup of the Igbo people.\n\nAmandugba and neighboring Umundugba used to be one town.\nBoth communities have suffered from an unreliable water supply from streams and brooks that often dry up, and that are breeding grounds for malaria-carrying mosquitoes and sources of diseases such as cholera, diarrhea, dysentery, guinea worm, tape worm, and night blindness. A recent project by \"Africa We Care\", a charity, has started to develop a supply based on a bore-hole.\n\nMissionary Institute of God´s Image (MIGI) German Language School. This school is located in Amurie Omanze in Isu Local Government Area. The MIGI German Language School has the recognition of the Imo State Ministry of Tertiary Education. German Language is being taught there for Students who would like to study in Germany, Married couples that would like to join their Husband or Wife in Germany, Tourists and those who have love for a second Language.\n"}
{"id": "6078379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6078379", "title": "Legislative districts of Manila", "text": "Legislative districts of Manila\n\nThe Legislative Districts of Manila are the representations of the city of Manila in the of the Philippines. The city is currently represented in the lower house of the Congress of the Philippines through its first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth districts.\n\nManila was originally divided into two representative districts from 1907 to 1949. When seats for the upper house of the Philippine Legislature were elected from territory-based districts between 1916 and 1935, the city formed part of the fourth senatorial district which elected two out of the 24-member senate.\n\nIn the disruption caused by the Second World War, Manila was incorporated into the City of Greater Manila on January 1, 1942 through Manuel Quezon's Executive Order No. 400 as a wartime emergency measure. Greater Manila was represented by two delegates in the National Assembly of the Japanese-sponsored Second Philippine Republic: one was the city mayor (an \"ex officio\" member), while the other was elected through a citywide assembly of KALIBAPI members during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines.\n\nUpon the restoration of the Philippine Commonwealth in 1945, Manila's pre-war two-district representation was retained; this remained so until 1949. By virtue of the \"Revised Charter of the City of Manila\", enacted on June 18, 1949, the city was divided into four congressional districts. The city elected four representatives from the 2nd Congress up to the 7th Congress.\n\nThe city was represented in the Interim Batasang Pambansa as part of Region IV from 1978 to 1984, and elected six representatives, at large, to the Regular Batasang Pambansa in 1984.\n\nManila was reapportioned into six congressional districts under the new Constitution which was proclaimed on February 11, 1987. It elected members to the restored House of Representatives starting that same year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5646731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5646731", "title": "List of Bolivian drinks", "text": "List of Bolivian drinks\n\nThe following is a list of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages that are popular among the people of Bolivia. Singani ( the Bolivian national drink) is the main liquor used to produce some of these mixed drinks. Pisco is another liquor that is easily found in Bolivia, and is the main component of another branch of beverages listed here.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12666767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666767", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in El Salvador", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in El Salvador\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in El Salvador (continental Central America) comprises only a Latin hierarchy, joint in the national episcopal conference (Conferencia Episcopal de El Salvador, CEDES), consisting of\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic or pre-diocesan jurisdictions.\n\nThere is also an Apostolic Nunciature to El Salvador, as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level) in the national capital San Salvador.\n\n\n\nThere are no titular sees.\n\nAll defunct (notably promoted) jurisdictions have current Latin successor sees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11560582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11560582", "title": "List of Greenlandic films", "text": "List of Greenlandic films\n\nA list of films produced in the Greenlandic language either by Greelandic or Danish producers, sorted in alphabetical order.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22192335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22192335", "title": "List of Puerto Rico territorial symbols", "text": "List of Puerto Rico territorial symbols\n\nThis is a list of Puerto Rico territorial symbols:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57186025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57186025", "title": "List of Regional Expressways of China", "text": "List of Regional Expressways of China\n\n\nAnhui Expressway Numbering Plan 2016-2030\n\n\nFujian Expressway Numbering Plan 2009-2030 <br>\nFujian Expressway Network Plan 2016-2030\n\n\nFormer numbers (before 2013):\n\n\nHebei Expressway Numbering Plan 2013-2030<br>\nHebei Expressway Network Plan 2016-2030\n\n\nHeilongjiang Expressway Numbering Plan 2015-2030\n\n\nHenan Expressway Numbering Plan 2015-2030<br>\nHenan Expressway Network Plan 2016-2030\n\n\nInner Mongolia Expressway Numbering Plan 2015-2030<br>Inner Mongolia Expressway List with construction status\n\nJiangsu Expressway Numbering Plan 2017-2035\n\n\nJilin Expressway Numbering Plan 2011-2030<br>\nJilin Expressway Numbering Plan 2014-2030\n\nLiaoning Expressway List on Chinese Wiki\n\n\nNingxia Expressway Numbering Plan 2015-2030\n\nShandong Expressway Numbering Plan 2009-2030 <br> Shandong Expressway Network Plan 2015-2030\n\n\nShanghai Expressway Numbering Plan 2009-2030\n\nShanxi Expressway Numbering Plan 2009-2030<br>\nShanxi Expressway Network Plan 2012-2030\n\n\nSichuan Expressway Numbering Plan 2017-2030\n\n\n\nXinjiang Expressway Numbering Plan 2016-2030\n\nNorth-South Lines:\n\nEast-West Lines:\n\nConnecting Lines:\nZhejiang Expressway Numbering Plan 2010-2030<br>\nLishui Expressway Plan 2014-2030\n\n\nThere are of expressways in Hong Kong. Macau has fewer than of highways, many of which are partially controlled access.\n\nFor more see Expressways in Hong Kong and Highways in Macau.\n\n"}
{"id": "23906185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23906185", "title": "List of airlines of Nauru", "text": "List of airlines of Nauru\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Nauru.\n\n"}
{"id": "7909734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909734", "title": "List of endangered languages in North America", "text": "List of endangered languages in North America\n\nAn endangered language is a language that it is at risk of falling out of use, generally because it has few surviving speakers. If it loses all of its native speakers, it becomes an extinct language. UNESCO defines four levels of language endangerment between \"safe\" (not endangered) and \"extinct\":\n\nNorth America is a continent in the Earth's northern hemisphere and (chiefly) western hemisphere. It is bordered on the north by the Arctic Ocean, on the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southeast by the Caribbean Sea, and on the south and west by the North Pacific Ocean; South America lies to the southeast. It covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers (9,540,000 sq mi), about 4.8% of the planet's surface or about 16.5% of its land area. As of July 2007, its population was estimated at nearly 524 million people.\n\nToday, North America only has a total of 256 living languages. However, out of those 256 languages, 238 are in the realm of extinction. That is, 92% of languages that are dying. The United States has the highest number of dying languages, 143 out of 219 languages, then Canada with 75 dying out of its 94 languages, and lastly, Greenland has the smallest amount, 0 out of its two spoken languages.\n"}
{"id": "34317167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34317167", "title": "List of museums in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "List of museums in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nThis is a list of museums in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35390666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35390666", "title": "List of people associated with the eurozone crisis", "text": "List of people associated with the eurozone crisis\n\nThis is a list of people associated with the eurozone crisis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440612", "title": "List of pharmacies", "text": "List of pharmacies\n\nThis article is a list of major pharmacies (also known as chemists and drugstores) by country.\nPharmacies in Australia are mostly independently owned by pharmacists, often operated as franchises of retail brands offered by the three major pharmaceutical wholesalers in Australia: Australian Pharmaceutical Industries (API) and Sigma Pharmaceuticals. A minority of pharmacies are owned by friendly societies, particularly in Victoria and South Australia.\n\n\n\n\nThe key players in the drugstore industry in China are:\n\nIn Denmark, all pharmacies are owned by the Association of Danish Pharmacies and controlled by the state. There are two pharmaceutically trained groups with a higher education in the Danish pharmacies: pharmaconomists () and pharmacists (). There are also pharmacy technicians () who have a vocational training and unskilled laborers/workers () who perform manual labour.\n\nGermany is the biggest pharmacy market in Europe with €35 billion, or $46 billion, of revenue each year. In Germany, pharmacies are known as \"apotheken\". Like France, they are all independently-owned by pharmacists, and like France, there are no pharmacy chains. In hindsight to consumer protection, German law bans chains of apotheken, but generally allows self-employed pharmacists to individually operate a maximum of four outlets, all of which must be in close proximity.\n\nOther types of retailing are strongly opposed to offering the same types of services as an apotheke. These retailers would not have the necessary expertise to provide proper patient care and this has been upheld by the European Court of Justice in its ruling of May 2009. Traditionally in Germany, drugs were not discountable and the entire trade with pharmaceuticals was limited to the single channel of the Apotheke. In 2004 however, the health care reform law GMG () allowed free pricing of OTC products. This led to a significant decrease of OTC prices in competitive areas. Internet and mail-order purchasing of drugs has also become an alternative, but only accounts for about 5% of German pharmaceutical trade.\n\nOnline pharmacy DocMorris has been introducing the first licence based chain pharmacy model in Germany in 2007 (as opposed to the current independent pharmacy model). Alongside their brand, they are offering standardized services in their pharmacies, whilst they do not operate or own them. They also offer discounted OTC products. Besides this model, German pharmacies are for the most part organized in wholesaler-based cooperations like LINDA, , or vivesco. These cooperations are offering discounts in purchasing and support e.g. in marketing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPharmacies in the Netherlands are mostly independently owned by pharmacists. In 2011, 31% of all pharmacies were part of one of the following chains:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany pharmacy chains in the United States are owned and operated by regional supermarket brands, or national big-box store brands such as Walmart. These pharmacies are located within their larger chain stores. The three largest free-standing pharmacy chains in the United States are Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid.\n\nAlthough not a pharmacy chain, many of the fairly ubiquitous Costco stores include a pharmacy and - in California at least - the pharmacy is available to non-members.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4233151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4233151", "title": "List of songs about Melbourne", "text": "List of songs about Melbourne\n\nThe music of Australia and most particularly the rock, pop, Hip hop and indie rock music of Australia has had a long fascination with the local environment be it urban or rural. This is a list of songs which mention or are about Melbourne the capital city of Victoria, Australia, the suburbs of Melbourne and nearby locations. In 2004, an article by Michael Dwyer published in \"The Age\" discussed songs written about Melbourne. A list of twenty-five songs about Melbourne were also published.\n\nFairfax sister publication, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" ran a concurrent article discussing songs written about Sydney at the time. Paul Kelly had four songs in each list, one of which (\"From St Kilda to Kings Cross\") featured in both lists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50591736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50591736", "title": "List of video games developed in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "List of video games developed in the Republic of Ireland\n\nThis is a list of video games developed in Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "10528515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10528515", "title": "Location intelligence", "text": "Location intelligence\n\nLocation intelligence (LI), or spatial intelligence, is the process of deriving meaningful insight from geospatial data relationships to solve a particular problem. It involves layering multiple data sets spatially and/or chronologically, for easy reference on a map, and its applications span industries, categories and organizations.\n\nMaps have been used to represent information throughout the ages, but what might be referenced as the first example of true location 'intelligence' was in London in 1854 when John Snow was able to debunk theories about the spread of cholera by overlaying a map of the area with the location of water pumps and was able to narrow the source to a single water pump. This layering of information over a map was able to identify relationships between different sets of geospatial data.\n\nLocation or geographical information system (GIS) tools enable spatial experts to collect, store, analyze and visualize data. Location intelligence experts can use a variety of spatial and business analytical tools to measure optimal locations for operating a business or providing a service. Location intelligence experts begin with defining the business ecosystem which has many interconnected economic influences. Such economic influences include but are not limited to culture, lifestyle, labor, healthcare, cost of living, crime, economic climate and education.\n\nThe term \"location intelligence\" is often used to describe the people, data and technology employed to geographically \"map\" information. These mapping applications can transform large amounts of data into color-coded visual representations that make it easy to see trends and generate meaningful intelligence. The creation of location intelligence is directed by domain knowledge, formal frameworks, and a focus on decision support. Location cuts across through everything i.e. devices, platforms, software and apps, and is one of the most important ingredient of understanding context in sync with social data, mobile data, user data, sensor data.\n\nLocation intelligence is also used to describe the integration of a geographical component into business intelligence processes and tools, often incorporating spatial database and spatial OLAP tools.\n\nIn 2012, Wayne Gearey from the real estate industry (JLL) offered the first applied course on location intelligence at the University of Texas at Dallas in which he defined location intelligence as the process for selecting the optimal location that will support workplace success and address a variety of business and financial objectives.\n\nPitney Bowes MapInfo Corporation describes location intelligence as follows: \"Spatial information, commonly known as \"Location\", relates to involving, or having the nature of where. Spatial is not constrained to a geographic location however most common business uses of spatial information deal with how spatial information is tied to a location on the earth. Miriam-Webster® defines Intelligence as \"The ability to learn or understand, or the ability to apply knowledge to manipulate one`s environment.\" Combining these terms alludes to how you achieve an understanding of the spatial aspect of information and apply it to achieve a significant competitive advantage.\"\n\nDefinition by ESRI is as follows: \"Location Intelligence is defined as the capacity to organize and understand complex data through the use of geographic relationships. LI organizes business and geographically referenced data to reveal the relationship of location to people, events, transactions, facilities, and assets.\"\n\nDefinition by Yankee Group within their White Paper \"Location Intelligence in Retail Banking: \"...a business management term that refers to spatial data visualization, contextualization and analytical capabilities applied to solve a business problem.\"\n\nNear defines location intelligence as the gamut of geo-spatial analytic models, algorithms, techniques and tools that harness location-indexed streaming and static data to provide requisite answers to questions around location such as the attributes of i) a place, ii) people visiting a place, and iii) products consumed at a place. Location intelligence platforms encapsulate these technologies, ingest relevant data sources, and provide it as data-as-a-service, or use it to power data-driven products.\n\nInstarea defines location intelligence as \"Using machine learning algorithms to uncover trends that would be otherwise unknown using human based rules in a large location data set.\"\n\nLocation intelligence is used by a broad range of industries to improve overall business results. Applications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "10132427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10132427", "title": "Martakert Province", "text": "Martakert Province\n\nMartakert Province () is a province of the \"de facto\" Republic of Artsakh. The Republic has limited international recognition. It is \"de jure\" part of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The population is mainly Armenian. Martakert Province has 43 communities of which 1 is considered urban and 42 are rural.\n\nThe Gandzasar monastery, the Yeghishe Arakyal Monastery and the 17th century Armenian monastery Yerits Mankants are located in this province. The Vankasar Monastery is just outside the town of Martakert. The archaeological site of the town of Tigranakert is also located here. Thought to have been founded in the 2nd-1st century B.C, it has been undergoing excavation since 2005. Some of the walls of the city, with Hellenistic-style towers, as well as Armenian basilica dating to fifth to seventh centuries have been uncovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "35649041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35649041", "title": "Maurice Le Lannou", "text": "Maurice Le Lannou\n\nMaurice Le Lannou (8 May 1906 – 2 July 1992) was a French geographer.\n"}
{"id": "1416772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416772", "title": "Mikhail Pomortsev", "text": "Mikhail Pomortsev\n\nMikhail Mikhaylovich Pomortsev (July 24, 1851, Vasilyevshchina – July 2, 1916, all n.s.) was a Russian meteorologist and engineer. A lunar crater is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "40813591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40813591", "title": "Minette (ore)", "text": "Minette (ore)\n\nMinette is a type of mineral deposit, consisting of iron ore of sedimentary origin, found in the south of Luxembourg and in Lorraine. Minette ore was deposited in the Early Jurassic and Middle Jurassic.\n\nThe term \"Minette\" came from French miners. It is a diminutive form of \"la mine\", and might be translated as \"little mine, little colliery\" or \"little vein\", referring to its relatively poor iron content of between 28% and 34%.\n\nIn other uses, \"Minette\" is also an archaic rock term used to locally describe a particular type of lamprophyre.\n\nThe deposit is one of the largest iron reserves in the world. The reserves have been estimated at 6 billion tons, with an iron content of 2 billion tons. The phosphorus content of Minette rendered its industrial processing impossible for a long time, which changed with the introduction of the Thomas-Gilchrist procedure.\n\nAfter the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1871, large parts of Lorraine were annexed by Germany. The borders were determined such that much of the known Minette reserves were in German territory. The geologist Wilhelm Hauchecorne, a member of the border commission, had argued for this. Although the German authorities awarded significantly more mining concessions than the French had, iron ore production hardly increased until 1879. This changed in the 1880s, due to a greater number of railway lines in the Minette area and the construction of a railway line from Thionville in France to Völklingen in Germany, which from 1883 enabled a direct link with the Saarland industrial area. Explorations in the 1880s showed that the Minette reserves reached further to the West than had previously been assumed, and increased in volume and iron content the deeper they went. By 1909, 16 mines had been dug in the French part of Lorraine, the département Meurthe-et-Moselle, especially in the basin of Briey, which mined Minette through mine shafts.\n\nAfter World War I, Lorraine belonged completely to France again. In 1919, yearly production went over 41 million tons, 21 million tons of these in the département Moselle and 20 million tons in the département Meurthe-et-Moselle. Lorraine was, after the United States, the second-largest iron producer in the world. The high point of ore production was reached with 62 million tons in France and 6 million tons in Luxembourg in 1960. Currently, after 150 years of mining, approximately 3 billion tons of ore have been produced. The relatively low iron content, however, meant that Lotharingian Minette-ore was successively replaced by more highly concentrated imported ores (with iron contents around 60%). As a consequence, more and more mins were closed down. The last pit in Luxembourg, Differdange, closed in 1981, the last French one, at Audun-le-Tiche in the Moselle department did so in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "17514425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514425", "title": "Nations: A Simulation Game in International Politics", "text": "Nations: A Simulation Game in International Politics\n\nNations: A Simulation Game in International Politics is a case study available from the Georgetown University Institute for the Study of Diplomacy. In the game, students are divided into countries, and they compete against other by trading resources and making treaties. The game takes place on the fictional continent of Lostralia. The students are provided with rules. Each country has resources and secrets. Each country has a series of problems that they must solve and a certain amount of resources that they must get.\n\nThe game is set on the fictional continent of Lostralia. It consists of seven countries and a neutral zone. The seven states are Spartonia, Bampff, Holy Zott, Pyrote, Libertania, Zamboni, and Crock. Each of the countries have specified resources, cities, and problems. Lostralia is fraught with diplomatic issues and players that all dominate in varying fields: Spartonia-military, Pyrote-religious, Crock-diplomatic, Zamboni-food, and Libertania-freedom.\n\nLostralia is known for its problems, but also for its ability to overcome them, much like the real world had done between World War I and the end of the Cold War.\n\n"}
{"id": "5989779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989779", "title": "Natural landscaping", "text": "Natural landscaping\n\nNatural landscaping, also called native gardening, is the use of native plants, including trees, shrubs, groundcover, and grasses which are indigenous to the geographic area of the garden. \n\nNatural landscaping is adapted to the climate, geography and hydrology and should require no pesticides, fertilizers and watering to maintain, given that native plants have adapted and evolved to local conditions over thousands of years. However, these applications may be necessary for some preventive care of trees and other vegetation in areas of degraded or weedy landscapes.\n\nNative plants suit today's interest in \"low-maintenance\" gardening and landscaping, with many species vigorous and hardy and able to survive winter cold and summer heat. Once established, they can flourish without irrigation or fertilization, and are resistant to most pests and diseases.\n\nMany municipalities have quickly recognized the benefits of natural landscaping due to municipal budget constraints and reductions and the general public is now benefiting from the implementation of natural landscaping techniques to save water and create more personal time.\n\nNative plants provide suitable habitat for native species of butterflies, birds, pollinators, and other wildlife. They provide more variety in gardens by offering myriad alternatives to the often planted introduced species, cultivars, and invasive species. The indigenous plants have co-evolved with animals, fungi and microbes, to form a complex network of relationships. They are the foundation of their native habitats and ecosystems, or natural communities.\n\nSuch gardens often benefit from the plants being evolved and habituated to the local climate, pests and herbivores, and soil conditions, and so may require fewer to no soil amendments, irrigation, pesticides, and herbicides for a beautiful, lower maintenance, and more sustainable landscape.\n\nHowever, while local provenance plants have adapted to local conditions (which includes climate, soil, and other native plants and animals), there will often be instances, especially in cities, where one or more of these will have been radically altered.\n\nExamples include:\n\nMany weeds in an area are usually the result of imported plants. These plants become invasive because there are no natural controls such as disease, weather, or fauna in their new environment. They take over native habitats, reducing shelter and food for local fauna. Using local provenance plants increases the biodiversity of and is important for the health of a region's overall ecology. \n\nMuch of the wild areas have been destroyed to make room for urban development. Housing developments have replaced native habitats with ornamental plants and lawns, pushing the wildland-urban interface further out. While development won't be stopped, gardeners can keep wild areas and green spaces filled with native species on their lots and in their communities.\n\nDespite this, there are usually plenty of indigenous or native plants which will grow and thrive in the area one is trying to establish a native garden.\n\nNative gardens include the following kinds:\n\n\n\"Wildflower\" in some nations denominates the numerous showy flowers from some drier climates, most notably southwest Western Australia, southern Africa, and North America.\n\nSome wildflower gardens attempt to recreate a prairie, including native grasses along with flowering plants, i. e. forbs. Such gardens benefit the local wildlife, often attracting birds, butterflies, and small mammals. By carefully choosing the plants for the garden, some of these animals can be encouraged to visit the garden. One popular type of wildflower garden specializes in attracting butterflies and is thus denominated a \"butterfly garden\".\n\nThe native plants cultivated in wildflower gardens often have deep roots, and therefore are effective selections for absorbing surface runoff and allowing the water to infiltrate into the local water table. Wildflower gardens cultivated for capturing runoff in this mode are denominated \"rain gardens\".\n\nRain gardens absorb rainwater from gutters & impervious surfaces and function much better when planted with native plants which tolerate the alternation of flooding and drying.\n\n\n\nIn new construction, builders can either avoid clear cutting or clearing an entire property and disturbing other large flora or builders can completely clear an area of all flora to save construction time and replace the clearing with juvenile specimens once the job is complete. The downside to this is additional costs involved with purchasing replacements. The builder may also choose to plant additional native trees and other flora after construction to help the property blend with natural surroundings.\n\nIn some planned developments, natural landscaping is the requirement. Builders may not remove trees larger than a specific diameter and owners may not arbitrarily cut trees without a permit.\n\nThroughout the world, forested areas were turned into cattle grazing or farmland. Often this land is then turned into residential or commercial use property. By returning the land back to its original state prior to human disturbance, vast amounts of energy usage and increasing pollution can be reduced. Natural landscaping costs less to install than traditional landscaping and, after the initial few years, reduces maintenance costs, combats erosion, and accommodates storm and flood waters better.\n\nIn many parts of the world there are societies, clubs or local groups, such as Bushcare or ASGAP in Australia, the North American Native Plant Society, or the California Native Plant Society, which are made up of gardeners interested in growing plants local to their area, state or country. In the United States, Wild Ones--Native Plants, Natural Landscapes is a national organization with local chapters in many states. New England Wildflower Society, and Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center. provide information on native plants and promote natural landscaping. These organizations can be the best resources for learning about and obtaining local native plants. Many members have spent years or decades cultivating local plants or bushwalking in local areas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22725973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22725973", "title": "Public holidays in Tuvalu", "text": "Public holidays in Tuvalu\n\nThe following are public holidays in Tuvalu.\n\nAlso, the regions observe the following regional holidays:\n"}
{"id": "1032545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032545", "title": "Rainwater harvesting", "text": "Rainwater harvesting\n\nRainwater harvesting is the accumulation and storage of rainwater for reuse on-site, rather than allowing it to run off. from or , and in many places, the water collected is redirected to a deep pit (), a reservoir with percolation, or collected from with nets or other tools. Its uses include water for gardens, livestock, irrigation, domestic use with proper treatment, indoor heating for houses, etc. The harvested water can also be used as drinking water, longer-term storage, and for other purposes such as groundwater recharge.\n\nRainwater harvesting is one of the simplest and oldest methods of self-supply of water for households usually financed by the user.\n\nThe construction and use of cisterns to store rainwater can be traced back to the Neolithic Age, when waterproof lime plaster cisterns were built in the floors of houses in village locations of the Levant, a large area in Southwest Asia, south of the Taurus Mountains, bound by the Mediterranean Sea in the west, the Arabian Desert in the south, and Mesopotamia in the east. By the late 4000 BC, cisterns were essential elements of emerging water management techniques used in dry-land farming.\n\nMany ancient cisterns have been discovered in Jerusalem and the entire Land of Israel. At the site believed by some to be that of the biblical city of Ai (Khirbet et-Tell), a large cistern dating back to around 2500 BC was discovered that had a capacity of nearly . It was carved out of solid rock, lined with large stones, and sealed with clay to keep from leaking.\nThe Greek island of Crete is also known for its use of large cisterns for rainwater collection and storage during the Minoan period from 2,600 BC - 1,100 BC. Four large cisterns have been discovered at Myrtos–Pyrgos, Archanes, and Zakroeach. The cistern found at Myrtos-Pyrgos was found to have a capacity of more than 80 m3 and date back to 1700 BC.\n\nAround 300 BCE, farming communities in Balochistan (now located in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iran), and Kutch, India, used rainwater harvesting for agriculture and many other uses. rainwater harvesting was done by Chola kings. Rainwater from the Brihadeeswarar temple (located in Balaganpathy Nagar, Thanjavur, India) was collected in Shivaganga tank. During the later Chola period, the Vīrānam tank was built (1011 to 1037 CE) in the Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu to store water for drinking and irrigation purposes. Vīrānam is a 16-km-long tank with a storage capacity of .\n\nRainwater harvesting was also common in the Roman Empire. While Roman Aqueducts are well-known, Roman cisterns were also commonly used and their construction expanded with the Empire. For example, in Pompeii, rooftop water storage was common before the construction of the Aqueduct in the 1st century BC. This history continued with the Byzantine Empire, for example the Basilica Cistern in Istanbul.\n\nThough little-known, for centuries the town of Venice depended on rainwater harvesting. The lagoon which surrounds Venice is brackish water, which is not suitable for drinking. The ancient inhabitants of Venice established a system of rainwater collection which was based on man-made insulated collection wells. Water percolated down the specially designed stone flooring, and was filtered by a layer of sand, then collected at the bottom of the well. Later, as Venice acquired territories on the mainland, it started to import water by boat from local rivers, but the wells remained in use, and were especially important in time of war when access to the mainland water could be blocked by an enemy.\n\nA number of Canadians have started implementing rainwater harvesting systems for use in stormwater reduction, irrigation, laundry, and lavatory plumbing. Substantial reform to Canadian law since the mid-2000s has increased the use of this technology in agricultural, industrial, and residential use, but ambiguity remains amongst legislation in many provinces. Bylaws and local municipal codes often regulate rainwater harvesting.\n\n\nThe Mumbai City council is planning to make rainwater harvesting mandatory for large societies.\n\nThe Southwest Center for the Study of Hospital and Healthcare Systems in cooperation with Rotary International is sponsoring a rainwater harvesting model program across the country. The first rainwater catchment system was installed at an elementary school in Lod, Israel. The project is looking to expand to Haifa in its third phase. The Southwest Center has also partnered with the Water Resources Action Project of Washington, DC, which currently has rainwater harvesting projects in the West Bank. Rainwater harvesting systems are being installed in local schools for the purpose of educating schoolchildren about water conservation principles and bridging divides between people of different religious and ethnic backgrounds, all while addressing the water scarcity issue that the Middle East faces.\n\nAlthough New Zealand has plentiful rainfall in the West and South, for much of the country, rainwater harvesting is the normal practice for most rural housing and is encouraged by most councils.\n\nRainwater harvesting has been a popular method of obtaining water for agriculture and for drinking purposes in rural homes. The legislation to promote rainwater harvesting was enacted through the Urban Development Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 36 of 2007. Lanka rainwater harvesting forum is leading the Sri Lanka's initiative.\n\nThe South African Water Research Commission has supported research into rainwater harvesting. Reports on this research are available on their \"Knowledge Hub\". Studies in arid, semiarid, and humid regions have confirmed that techniques such as mulching, pitting, ridging, and modified run-on plots are effective for small-scale crop production. hydrofracturing has regularly been used to improve the performance of water boreholes. From 1990 to 1992, 170 boreholes had been hydrofractured.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, water butts are often found in domestic gardens and on allotments to collect rainwater, which is then used to water the garden. However, the British government's Code For Sustainable Homes encouraged fitting large underground tanks to newly built homes to collect rainwater for flushing toilets, watering, and washing. Ideal designs had the potential to reduce demand on mains water supply by half. The code was revoked in 2015.\n\n\n\nInstead of using the , the RainSaucer, which looks like an upside-down umbrella, collects rain straight from the sky. This decreases the potential for contamination and makes potable water for developing countries a potential application. Other applications of this free-standing rainwater collection approach are sustainable gardening and small-plot farming.\n\nA Dutch invention called the Groasis Waterboxx is also useful for growing trees with harvested and stored dew and rainwater.\n\nTraditionally, stormwater management using detention basins served a single purpose. However, optimized real-time control lets this infrastructure double as a source of rainwater harvesting without compromising the existing detention capacity. This has been used in the EPA headquarters to evacuate stored water prior to storm events, thus reducing wet weather flow while ensuring water availability for later reuse. This has the benefit of increasing water quality released and decreasing the volume of water released during combined sewer overflow events.\n\nGenerally, check dams are constructed across the streams to enhance the percolation of surface water into the subsoil strata. The water percolation in the water-impounded area of the check dams can be enhanced artificially manyfold by loosening the subsoil strata and overburden using ANFO explosives as used in open cast mining. Thus, local aquifers can be recharged quickly using the available surface water fully for use in the dry season.\n\nIn 1992, American artist Michael Jones McKean created an artwork in Omaha, Nebraska, at the Bemis Center for Contemporary Art that created a fully sustainable rainbow in the Omaha skyline. The project collected thousands of gallons of rainwater, storing the water in six daisy-chained 12,000 gallons tanks. The massive logistical undertaking, during its five-month span, was one of the largest urban rainwater harvesting sites in the American Midwest.\n\nRainwater harvesting is possible by growing freshwater-flooded forests without losing the income from the used, submerged land. The main purpose of the rainwater harvesting is to use the locally available rainwater to meet water requirements throughout the year without the need of huge capital expenditure. This would facilitate the availability of uncontaminated water for domestic, industrial, and irrigation needs.\n\nGood quality water resource, closer to populated areas, is becoming scarce and costly for the consumers. In addition to solar and wind energy, rain water is major renewable resource of any land. Vast area is being covered by solar PV panels every year in all parts of the world. Solar panels can also be used for harvesting most of the rain water falling on them and drinking quality water, free from bacteria and suspended matter, can be generated by simple filtration and disinfection processes as rain water is very low in salinity. Exploitation of rain water for value added products like bottled drinking water, makes solar PV power plants profitable even in high rainfall/ cloudy areas by the augmented income from value added drinking water generation.\n\nRainwater harvesting provide the independent water supply during regional water restrictions, and in developed countries, is often used to supplement the main supply. It provides water when a drought occurs, can help mitigate flooding of low-lying areas, and reduces demand on wells which may enable groundwater levels to be sustained. It also helps in the availability of potable water, as rainwater is substantially free of salinity and other salts. Applications of rainwater harvesting in urban water system provides a substantial benefit for both water supply and wastewater subsystems by reducing the need for clean water in water distribution systems, less generated stormwater in sewer systems, and a reduction in stormwater runoff polluting freshwater bodies.\n\nA large body of work has focused on the development of life cycle assessment and its costing methodologies to assess the level of environmental impacts and money that can be saved by implementing rainwater harvesting systems.\n\nRainwater harvesting provides an independent water supply during water restrictions. In areas where clean water is costly, or difficult to come by, rainwater harvesting is a critical source of clean water. In developed countries, rainwater is often harvested to be used as a supplemental source of water rather than a main source, but the harvesting of rainwater can also decrease a household's water costs or overall usage levels.Rainwater is safe to drink. Rainwater is also independent of salinity or pollutants found in ground water, increasing the quantity of portable drinking water available when rainwater harvesting is utilized.\n\nWhen drought occurs, rainwater harvested in past months can be used. If rain is unpredictable, the use of a rainwater harvesting system can be critical to capturing the rain when it does fall. Many countries, especially those with arid environments, use rainwater harvesting as a cheap and reliable source of clean water. To enhance irrigation in arid environments, ridges of soil are constructed to trap and prevent rainwater from running down hills and slopes. Even in periods of low rainfall, enough water is collected for crops to grow. Water can be collected from roofs, dams and ponds can be constructed to hold large quantities of rainwater so that even on days when little to no rainfall occurs, enough is available to irrigate crops.\n\nIn addition, rainwater harvesting decreases the demand for water from wells, enabling groundwater levels to be further sustained rather than depleted.\n\nLife-cycle assessment is a methodology used to evaluate the environmental impacts of a system from cradle-to-grave of its lifetime. Devkota et al., developed such a methodology for rainwater harvesting, and found that the building design (e.g., dimensions) and function (e.g., educational, residential, etc.) play critical roles in the environmental performance of the system. The Economic and Environmental Analysis of Sanitations Technologies, EEAST model evaluates the greenhouse gas emissions and cost of such systems over the lifetime of a variety of building types.\n\nTo address the functional parameters of rainwater harvesting systems, a new metric was developed - the demand to supply ratio (D/S) - identifying the ideal building design (supply) and function (demand) in regard to the environmental performance of rainwater harvesting for toilet flushing. With the idea that supply of rainwater not only saves the potable water, but also saves the stormwater entering the combined sewer network (thereby requiring treatment), the savings in environmental emissions were higher if the buildings are connected to a combined sewer network compared to separate one.\n\nRainwater harvesting systems can range in complexity, from systems that can be installed with minimal skills, to automated systems that require advanced setup and installation. The basic rainwater harvesting system is more of a plumbing job than a technical job, as all the outlets from the building's terrace are connected through a pipe to an underground tank that stores water.\n\nSystems are ideally sized to meet the water demand throughout the dry season, since it must be big enough to support daily water consumption. Specifically, the rainfall capturing area such as a building roof must be large enough to maintain adequate flow of water. The water storage tank size should be large enough to contain the captured water. \nFor low-tech systems, many low-tech methods are used to capture rainwater: rooftop systems, surface water capture and pumping the rainwater that has already soaked into the ground or captured in reservoirs and storing it in tanks (cisterns).\n\nBefore a rainwater harvesting system is built, use of digital tools is useful. For instance, to detect if a region has a high rainwater harvesting potential, rainwater-harvesting GIS maps can be made using an online interactive tool, or , to estimate how much water is needed to fulfill a community's water needs, the Rain is Gain tool helps. Tools like these can save time and money before a commitment to build a system is undertaken, in addition to making the project sustainable and long lasting.\n\nMissions to six Caribbean countries have shown that the capture and storage of rainwater runoff for later use is able to significantly reduce the risk of losing some or all of the year's harvest because of soil or water scarcity. In addition, the risks associated with flooding and soil erosion during high rainfall seasons would decrease. Small farmers, especially those farming on hillsides, could benefit the most from rainwater harvesting because they are able to capture runoff and decrease the effects of soil erosion.\n\nMany countries, especially those with arid environments, use rainwater harvesting as a cheap and reliable source of clean water. To enhance irrigation in arid environments, ridges of soil are constructed to trap and prevent rainwater from running down hills and slopes. Even in periods of low rainfall, enough water is collected for crops to grow. Water can be collected from roofs, dams and ponds can be constructed to hold large quantities of rainwater so that even on days when little to no rainfall occurs, enough is available to irrigate crops.\n\n\nFrankfurt Airport has the biggest rainwater harvesting system in Germany. The system helps save approximately 1 million cubic metres of water per year. The cost of the system was 1.5 million dm (US $63,000) in 1993. The system collects water from roofs of the new terminal which has an area of 26,800 square metres. The water is collected in the basement of the airport in six tanks with a storage capacity of 100 cubic metres. The water is mainly used for toilet flushing, watering plants and cleaning the air conditioning system.\n\nRainwater harvesting was adopted at The Velodrome – The London Olympic Park – in order to increase the sustainability of the facility. A 73% decrease in potable water demand by the park was estimated. Despite this, it was deemed that rainwater harvesting was a less efficient use of financial resources to increase sustainability than the park's blackwater recycling program.\n\nRainwater may need to be analyzed properly, and used in a way appropriate to its safety. In the Gansu province for example, solar water disinfection is used by boiling harvested rainwater in parabolic solar cookers before being used for drinking. These so-called \"appropriate technology\" methods provide low-cost disinfection options for treatment of stored rainwater for drinking.\n\nWhile rainwater itself is a clean source of water, often better than groundwater or water from rivers or lakes, the process of collection and storage often leaves the water polluted and non-potable. Rainwater harvested from roofs can contain human, animal and bird feces, mosses and lichens, windblown dust, particulates from urban pollution, pesticides, and inorganic ions from the sea (Ca, Mg, Na, K, Cl, SO), and dissolved gases (CO, NO, SO). High levels of pesticide have been found in rainwater in Europe with the highest concentrations occurring in the first rain immediately after a dry spell; the concentration of these and other contaminants are reduced significantly by diverting the initial flow of run-off water to waste. Improved water quality can also be obtained by using a floating draw-off mechanism (rather than from the base of the tank) and by using a series of tanks, withdraw from the last in series. Prefiltration is a common practice used in the industry to keep the system healthy and ensure that the water entering the tank is free of large sediments.\n\nConceptually, a water supply system should match the quality of water with the end use. However, in most of the developed world, high-quality potable water is used for all end uses. This approach wastes money and energy and imposes unnecessary impacts to the environment. Supplying rainwater that has gone through preliminary filtration measures for nonpotable water uses, such as toilet flushing, irrigation and laundry, may be a significant part of a sustainable water management strategy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2613688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2613688", "title": "Rootstock", "text": "Rootstock\n\nA rootstock is part of a plant, often an underground part, from which new above-ground growth can be produced. It could also be described as a stem with a well developed root system, to which a bud from another plant is grafted. It can refer to a rhizome or underground stem. In grafting, it refers to a plant, sometimes just a stump, which already has an established, healthy root system, onto which a cutting or a bud from another plant is grafted. In some cases, such as vines of grapes and other berries, cuttings may be used for rootstocks, the roots being established in nursery conditions before planting them out. The plant part grafted onto the rootstock is usually called the scion. The scion is the plant that has the properties that propagator desires above ground, including the photosynthetic activity and the fruit or decorative properties. The rootstock is selected for its interaction with the soil, providing the roots and the stem to support the new plant, obtaining the necessary soil water and minerals, and resisting the relevant pests and diseases. After a few weeks the tissues of the two parts will have grown together, eventually forming a single plant. After some years it may be difficult to detect the site of the graft although the product always contains the components of two genetically different plants.\n\nThe use of rootstocks is most commonly associated with fruiting plants and trees, and is useful for mass propagating many other types of plants that do not breed true from seed, or are particularly susceptible to disease when grown on their own roots.\n\nAlthough grafting has been practiced for many hundreds of years, even in Roman times, most orchard rootstocks in current use were developed in the 20th century.\n\nA variety of rootstocks may be used for a single species or cultivar of scion because different rootstocks impart different properties, such as vigour, fruit size and precocity. Rootstocks also may be selected for traits such as resistance to drought, root pests, and diseases. Grapevines for commercial planting are most often grafted onto rootstocks to avoid damage by phylloxera, though vines available for sale to back garden viticulturists may not be.\n\nThe rootstock may be a different species from the scion, but as a rule it should be closely related, for example, many commercial pears are grown on quince rootstock. Grafting can also be done in stages; a closely related scion is grafted to the rootstock, and a less closely related scion is grafted to the first scion. Serial grafting of several scions may also be used to produce a tree that bears several different fruit cultivars, with the same rootstock taking up and distributes water and minerals to the whole system. Those with more than three varieties are known as 'family trees'.\n\nWhen it is difficult to match a plant to the soil in a certain field or orchard, growers may graft a scion onto a rootstock that is compatible with the soil. It may then be convenient to plant a range of ungrafted rootstocks to see which suit the growing conditions best; the fruiting characteristics of the scion may be considered later, once the most successful rootstock has been identified. Rootstocks are studied extensively and often are sold with a complete guide to their ideal soil and climate. Growers determine the pH, mineral content, nematode population, salinity, water availability, pathogen load and sandiness of their particular soil, and select a rootstock which is matched to it. Genetic testing is increasingly common, and new cultivars of rootstock are always being developed.\n\nAxR1 is a grape rootstock once widely used in California viticulture. Its name is an abbreviation for \"Aramon Rupestris Ganzin No. 1\", which in turn is based on its parentage: a cross (made by a French grape hybridizer named Ganzin) between Aramon, a \"Vitis vinifera\" cultivar, and Rupestris, an American grape species, \"Vitis rupestris\"—also used on its own as rootstock, \"Rupestris St. George\" or \"St. George,\" referring to a town in the South of France, Saint Georges d'Orques, where it was popular.\n\nIt achieved a degree of notoriety in California when, after decades of recommendation as a preferred rootstock—despite repeated warnings from France and South Africa about its susceptibility (it had failed in Europe in the early 1900s), it ultimately succumbed to phylloxera in the 1980s, requiring the replanting of most of Napa and Sonoma, with disastrous financial consequences. Those who resisted the urge to use AxR-1, such as David Bennion of Ridge Vineyards, saw their vineyards spared from phylloxera damage.\n\nMost current day grape rootstocks were and are originally imported from Texas. These were taken from the native wild mustang grapes that grow across Texas.\nThis rootstock also saved France's grape industry in the early 1900s when phylloxera decimated the wine and vineyards of Europe.\n\nApple rootstocks are used for apple trees and are often the deciding factor of the size of the tree that is grafted on to the root. Dwarfing, semi-dwarf, semi-standard and standard are the size benchmarks for the different sizes of roots that will be grown, with standard being the largest and dwarf being the smallest. Much of the world's apple production is now using dwarf rootstocks to improve efficiency, increase density and increase yields of fruit per/acre. The following is a list of the dwarfing rootstock that are commonly used today in apple production:\n\nMalling 9 rootstock is the most common and well known dwarfing rootstock. This rootstock should be planted in a well drained site, and requires staking for the duration of its life. This rootstock is also very susceptible to fireblight and burr knots. There have been many clones made of this rootstock, including M.9 NAKB 337, M.9EMLA and M.9. Pajam.\n\nMalling 26 rootstock will grow a larger tree than the M9 rootstock will, and is about 40-50% the size of a standard tree. This root is considered very productive and early bearing, and requires staking in the first few years of its life.\n\nMalling 7 rootstock is slightly bigger than an M26 rootstock, and also requires staking in the first several years to establish a centre leader. This rootstock is moderately susceptible to blight and collar rot. The fruit size that M7 produces is good but not as large as an M26, or M9 rootstock. This root is highly susceptible to suckering and leaning over in its later years of life, which is very annoying and causes issues for the producer.\n\nMalling 111 rootstock is one of the biggest and vigorous rootstock that is used today in commercial orchards, and is about 80-90% the size of a standard sized tree. It is generally quite winter hardy and produces few burr knots and root suckers. This rootstock is much less popular than it once was, because many commercial producers are now planting higher density orchards, which M111 is not conducive to. \n\nMalling 106 rootstock is slightly smaller than M111, but is a very productive tree and early fruiting abilities. It is a great rootstock to be used in a variety of soil conditions because it is very hardy with moderate vigour. This rootstock must be planted in well drained soils as it is susceptible to collar rot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17887261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17887261", "title": "Slip lane", "text": "Slip lane\n\nA slip lane is a road traffic lane provided at an intersection to allow vehicles to turn at the intersection without actually entering it and interfering with through traffic. It is therefore not controlled by any traffic signals at that intersection. There are two types of slip lane - those where the lane continues into its own lane in the road which it turns into and those where the lane terminates at the point where it enters the road turned into.\n\nSlip lanes may need to be removed if considerations such as pedestrian safety grow to a point where they over-ride the desire to facilitate free passage for cars.\n\nIn Australia cars exiting a slip lane must give way to all other traffic even when that traffic is faced with a give-way or other traffic controls.\n\nTo minimise risks of collision, slip lanes can be shaped to enter the traffic flow at a higher angle than the 45 degrees shown in the first sketch. Such lanes are called high entry angle slip lanes.\n"}
{"id": "54775122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54775122", "title": "These Small Glories", "text": "These Small Glories\n\nThese Small Glories was a collection of short stories by Australian author Jon Cleary which was published in 1946. They were set during World War Two.\n"}
{"id": "54373128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54373128", "title": "Tim Burt", "text": "Tim Burt\n\nTimothy Peter \"Tim\" Burt (born 23 December 1951) is a British geographer, academic, and academic administrator. Since 1996, he has been Master of Hatfield College, Durham and Professor of Geography at the University of Durham. He had previously taught at Huddersfield Polytechnic, the University of Oxford, and Keble College, Oxford.\n\nBurt was born on 23 December 1951 in Mells, Somerset, England. He was educated at Sexey's School, then an all-boys state grammar school in Bruton, Somerset. He studied geography at St John's College, Cambridge, graduating with a first class Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1973. He then studied at Carleton University, where he undertook research on frozen soils and graduated with a Master of Arts (MA) degree in 1974. He the moved to the University of Bristol where he undertook postgraduate research on hillslope hydrology, and he completed his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in 1978.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1984, Burt was senior lecturer at Huddersfield Polytechnic. In 1984, he joined the University of Oxford where he had been appointed a lecturer in physical geography and elected a Fellow of Keble College, Oxford. At Keble, he also worked as dean and then as senior tutor.\n\nIn 1996, Burt moved to Durham University, where he became Master of Hatfield College, Durham and he was appointed Professor of Geography. From 2002 to 2007, he also served as Dean of Colleges. In 2010, he was a visiting professor at Oregon State University. From September 2016 to January 2017, he was Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Colleges and Student Experience.\n\nSince 1982, Burt has been a trustee of the Field Studies Council. He served as chairman from 1996 to 2014, and has been its president since 2014.\n\nIn 1973, Burt married Elizabeth Anne Sapsford. Together they have two children: Emma and Tom.\n\nIn December 2012, Burt was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. In September 2013, he was elected a Fellow of the British Society for Geomorphology. In April 2017, he was awarded the 2017 David Linton Award by the British Society for Geomorphology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1836387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836387", "title": "Île du Levant", "text": "Île du Levant\n\nÎle du Levant (; Provençal: \"Illa dau Levant\"), sometimes referred to as Le Levant, is a French island in the Mediterranean off the coast of the Riviera, near Toulon. It is one of the four that constitute the Îles d'Hyères.\n\nThe island is , and located in the Gulf of Lion. About 90% of the island is reserved for a military missile test center (the Centre d'Essais de Lancement de Missiles) which has launched numerous research and testing rockets since its establishment in 1948. The remaining 10% is open to civilians.\n\nMonks lived on the island beginning in the 15th century; the ruins of their monastery still exist on the island. From 1861 until 1878, the island was a penitentiary for young offenders and orphans, of whom 89 died here. A plaque (located on the military part of the island) commemorates them.\n\nIn 1931, Gaston and André Durville, both doctors, established Héliopolis, Europe's first village dedicated to naturism, on the island. As the doctors Durville said in 1931 \n\nThe village was built on hillsides and is dominated by Fort Napoleon. The village has a post office, a city hall, a chapel and a police station as well as a grocery, a bakery, and two galleries. In 2017 a pizzeria will be opening. The port area houses the office of the Capitaine du Port, a clothing store and small general store. In between there is a bazaar (Le Bazar d'Héliopolis) offering food, hardware, a tabac and cafe bar. There are a number of hotels and bed-and-breakfasts, and eight restaurants (Le Gecko, La Fourmi, La Palmeraie, La Gambaro, Héliotel, Le Minimum, La Pomme d'Adam, La Bohème), all catering for naturists.\n\nThe Bain de Diane and the Plage des Grottes (a nude beach) are reserved for naturists; nudity is formally obligatory there. Being nude is allowed (and expected) everywhere on the public area of the island, except in the immediate vicinity of the harbour and on the village square. On these locations, it is formally necessary to wear what the French jokingly call , often a pareo or a string. In conformance with the relaxed atmosphere of the island, this rule is not really enforced, but generally well observed. Inside restaurants outside the village centre, some clothing, although often flimsy, is usually worn but toplessness (for women and men) is quite accepted there and \"le minimum\" considered sufficient attire; on the outside terraces, nudity is common, especially at lunch time. At least two restaurants, La Fourmi and Heliotel, actively encourage nude use, even at dinner. In August 2015 it became permitted to walk naked through the village square but \"le minimum\" is required if stopping. \nThe island sees a number of scuba divers; these generally do not partake in the nudist lifestyle.\n\nThe non-military part of the island is private property. The owners form the Association Syndicale Libre des Propriétaires à l'Île du Levant.\n\nOutside Héliopolis naturist village, the other main tourist attraction is the Domaine des Arbousiers, a voluntary natural reserve of , established on 3 December 1993.\n\nThe island can be reached by boat from Hyères and from Le Lavandou. As no cars are allowed on the island (except for some four utility cars), these ferries do not take cars.\n\nA 1956 film by Werner Kunz was called \"Isle of Levant\" and featured so-called \"nudist camp\" footage.\n\nThe island is used as a setting in the Robert A. Heinlein novel \"Glory Road\" and in the Mario Reading novel \"The Music Makers\".\n\nThe island was mentioned in \"Are You Being Served?\" episode \"Hoorah for the Holidays\" as a presumed destination for Captain Peacock's annual vacation. Miss Brahms calls it \"a nudist colony\" but Captain Peacock insists it's a \"nature camp\".\n\nThe island, and a nod to its nudist history, was also featured in the French film \"Nos Futurs\" (Our Futures).\n\n\n"}
