{"id": "11934235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11934235", "title": "Armed Occupation Act", "text": "Armed Occupation Act\n\nThe Florida Armed Occupation Act of 1842 () was passed as an incentive to populate Florida.\nThe Act granted 160 acres (0.6 km²) of unsettled land south of the line separating townships 9 and 10 South\n(a East/West line about three miles (5 km) north of Palatka and about ten miles (16 km) south of Newnansville) to any head of a family as long he satisfied the following conditions:\n\n\nThe total land to be granted should not be more than 200,000 acres (800 km²) under the act.\n\n"}
{"id": "19192658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19192658", "title": "Biteback Publishing", "text": "Biteback Publishing\n\nBiteback Publishing is a British publisher concentrating mainly on political titles. It was incorporated, as a private limited company with share capital, in 2009. It is jointly owned by its managing director Iain Dale and by Michael Ashcroft's Political Holdings Ltd, and has published several of Ashcroft's books including \"Call Me Dave\", his controversial 2015 biography of David Cameron.\n\nOther titles include, \"The Left's Jewish Problem\" (2016) and \"Post-Truth: How Bullshit Conquered the World\" (2017) by investigative journalist James Ball.\n\nBiteback's author roster includes Andrew Adonis, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, Roger Bannister, John Bercow, Conrad Black, Gyles Brandreth, Liam Byrne, Alastair Campbell, Chapman Pincher, Ann Clwyd, Michael Crick, Barry Cryer, Edwina Currie, David Davis, Angela Eagle, Nigel Farage, Norman Fowler, Paul Gambaccini, Charlotte Green, Peter Hain, Vince Hilaire, Ken Hom, Lee Howey, John Hutton, Antony Jay, Stanley Johnson, Nigel Lawson, Oliver Letwin, Maureen Lipman, Caroline Lucas, Jonathan Lynn, Denis MacShane, Brian Mawhinney, Damian McBride, Michael Meacher, Austin Mitchell, Ron Moody, Bel Mooney, Jim Murphy, Airey Neave, Michael Nicholson, Jessye Norman, Isabel Oakeshott, David Owen, Matthew Parris, Priti Patel, Harvey Proctor, Vicky Pryce, Mike Read, Malcolm Rifkind, Geoffrey Robertson, Nick Ross, Andrew Sachs, Gillian Shephard, Jacqui Smith, Michael Spicer, Elizabeth Truss, David Waddington, Nigel West and Michael Winner.\n\nAround 20% of its sales are ebooks.\n"}
{"id": "23830950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23830950", "title": "Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions", "text": "Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions\n\nThe Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions, sometimes referred to as the Charter of Privileges and Exemptions, is a document written by the Dutch West India Company in an effort to settle its colony of New Netherland in North America through the establishment of feudal patroonships purchased and supplied by members of the West India Company. Its 31 articles establish ground rules and expectations of the patroons and inhabitants of the new colonies. It was ratified by the Dutch States-General on June 7, 1629.\n\nThe economic situation of the colony of New Netherland in the late 1620s could be considered a fairly good showing for a colony only newly started in a wilderness. The first settlement was built in 1613, strictly out of necessity, but soon after, forts were built. At the time of the charter, the oldest settlement was only 16 years old. But this slow success was hardly sufficient to create much excitement among the directors of the West India Company. The principal objective of this organization was to go after the spoils of war, which promised rich harvests in the captured fleets of the Spanish, with colonization being only a secondary consideration. Noting that the capture of the silver fleet in 1628 left the company proceeds of $115,000,000, and that the next year sundry privateers brought in a bounty of over $18,000,000, it was hardly surprising that so little attention was paid to the settlements in the Hudson River Valley. Those were \"get rich quick\" days for large corporations, and the slow and tedious procedure of colonizing and cultivating new countries found little favor in the eyes of the men at the helm.\n\nThe realization that greater inducements had to be offered to increase the development of the colony led the West India Company to the creation of the so-called \"patroon system\". In 1629, the West India Company issued its charter of \"Freedoms and Exemptions\" by which it was declared that any member of the Company who could bring to and settle 50 persons over the age of 15 in New Netherland, should receive a liberal grant of land to hold as \"patroon\", or lord, with the exception, per , of the island of Manhattan. This land could have a frontage of if on one side of a river, or if situated on both sides. The patroon would be chief magistrate on his land, but disputes of more than 50 guilders could be appealed to the Director and his Council in New Amsterdam.\n\nThe tenants would be free from all taxation for 10 years, but during this period they would not be allowed to change from one estate to another nor to move from the country to the town. At least one quarter of the 50 inhabitants would have to be settled within the first year of the land grant, with the rest being settled within three years following that. The patroons would have full liberty to purchase goods in New Netherland, New England, and New France, with the exception of furs. But the trader would have to pay an export tax of five per cent in New Amsterdam before goods could be shipped to Europe. The fur trade remained a monopoly of the Company, being the most profitable investment at the time. The weaving of cloth was also prohibited in order to supply the looms in Holland with their needed raw supplies.\n\nThe patroon would be responsible for the expenses in erecting barns and other structures and preparing land for farming in addition to supplying the initial farming tools, vehicles, and livestock. However, each tenant would be due to pay a stipulated rent in addition to a percentage of that which they produced. Additionally, no farmer could sell any good without first offering it to patroon. The patroon also bore responsibility of hiring a minister and schoolmaster, as well as financing the respective structures when they became needed. Once the patroonship became a profitable enterprise, the patroon was expected to share net profits with the tenants.\n\nThere are some notable aspects of the charter, which, while aiming to make the West India Company wealthy and successful, offered great incentives to the patroons and respect to the indigenous peoples. For example, states that the patroon \"must satisfy the Indians of that place for the land\", essentially implying that the land must be bought (or bartered) from the local Indians, and not just taken. states that the patroon \"shall forever own and possess and hold from the Company as a perpetual fief of inheritance, all the land lying within the aforesaid limits\", which made the patroonship a fiefdom. It shall be seen later that one patroonship would last well into the 19th century. Additionally, the Company agreed to protect the patroonships from attack (), and even supply the patroonship—for free—\"with as many blacks as it possibly can ... for [no] longer [a] time than it shall see fit\" ().\n\nThe earliest venture to explore New Netherland for future colonization by a potential patroon was upon notification to the Directors on January 13, 1629 that Samuel Godyn, Kiliaen van Rensselaer, and Samuel Blommaert had sent Gillis Houset and Jacob Jansz Cuyper to determine satisfactory locations for settlement. This took place before the Charter was ratified, but was done in agreement with a draft of the Charter from March 28, 1628.\n\nUpon ratification of the charter on June 7, 1629, Michael Pauw informed the Directors of his intention to settle along the \"Sickenames River\", a stream east of the Connecticut River. On June 19, Samuel Godyn declared his intention to settle \"the bay of the South River\", the current day Delaware Bay, naming the settlement Zwaanendael. After the settlement had been in existence for only a short while, the colonists—32 in number—were murdered by the local Indians. Godyn sold his holdings back to the West India Company.\n\nPatroonships were not limited to the area of the northeastern United States. On October 15, Michael Pauw made his intention known to settle the islands of Fernando de Noronha, located off the Brazilian coast. Likewise on October 22, Albertus Conradus declared himself patroon of the island of Saint Vincent. On November 1, Conradus also registered as patroon of the east side of South Bay, that which had not been taken by Samuel Godyn on June 19. It was abandoned and no colony was actually established.\n\nOn November 16, 1629, Samuel Blommaert declared himself patroon of the Fresh River presumedly adjoining the one to the east on the Sickenames River previously registered by Michael Pauw. No colony was ever established and the patroonship was eventually abandoned. On January 10, 1630, Pauw declared himself patroon of an area along the southern end of the North River, including land on the present site of Jersey City, and Staten Island, so called in honor of the \"Staten\", or States General. The patroonship was called Pavonia. The enterprise however, was not a financial success and he finally sold his holdings to the West India Company.\n\nThe most successful of the settlements started under the patroonship charter was on the upper Hudson River by Kiliaen van Rensselaer, an Amsterdam jeweler and member of the Chamber of Amsterdam. Van Rensselaer declared his intentions of settling a patroonship on November 19, 1629. From the Mahicans he purchased a plot of land now represented by Albany and Rensselaer counties, which he called Rensselaerswyck and to which he brought several families from the town of Nijkerk, the place of his birth. Rensselaerswyck would stay in the van Rensselaer family until its dissolution during the Anti-Rent War in the 1840s, with its last patroon, Stephen van Rensselaer III dying a very rich man. To this day, he is listed as the tenth richest American in history, having been worth about $10 million (about $88 billion in 2007 dollars).\n\n"}
{"id": "43996402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43996402", "title": "Chu Yiu-ming", "text": "Chu Yiu-ming\n\nReverend Chu Yiu-ming (, born 10 January 1944 in Hong Kong) is the minister of Chai Wan Baptist Church in Hong Kong. He is one of the founders of Occupy Central Campaign to strive for universal suffrage of Hong Kong Chief Executive Election in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1036175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036175", "title": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Ontario Section)", "text": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Ontario Section)\n\nThe Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Ontario Section) – The Farmer-Labor Party of Ontario, or more commonly known as the Ontario CCF, was a democratic socialist political party that existed from 1932 to 1961. It was the provincial wing of the national CCF. The party had no leader in the beginning, and was governed by a provincial council and executive. The party's first Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) was elected by voters in the 1934 Ontario general election. In the 1937 general election, no CCF members were elected to the Ontario Legislature. In 1942, the party elected Toronto lawyer Ted Jolliffe as its first leader. He led the party to within a few seats of forming the government in the 1943 general election; instead, it formed the Official Opposition. In that election, the first two women were elected to the Ontario Legislature as CCFers: Agnes Macphail and Rae Luckock. The 1945 election was a setback, as the party lost most of its seats in the Legislature, including Jolliffe's seat. The party again became the Official Opposition after the 1948 general election, and defeated the Conservative premier George Drew in his seat, when Bill Temple unexpectedly won in the High Park constituency. The middle and late 1940s were the peak years for the Ontario CCF. After that time, its electoral performances were dismal, as it was reduced to a rump of two seats in the 1951 election, three seats in the 1955 election, and five seats in the 1959 election. Jolliffe stepped down as leader in 1953, and was replaced by Donald C. MacDonald.\n\nThe period between the 1951 defeat and the founding of the Ontario New Democratic Party was one of much internal strife, but MacDonald managed to keep the party together, despite the constant electoral defeats. In October 1961, the party dissolved itself and became part of the New Democratic Party.\n\nThe Ontario CCF was indirectly the successor to the 1919–23 United Farmers of Ontario–Labour coalition that formed the government in Ontario under Ernest C. Drury. While United Farmer Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) joined the Ontario Liberal Party, the United Farmers of Ontario (UFO), as an organization, participated in the formation of the Ontario CCF, and was briefly affiliated with the party.\n\nAfter a meeting in Ottawa on May 26, 1932, that brought together all the Members of Parliament that belonged to the Ginger Group, and some members of the League for Social Reconstruction (LSR), the CCF was formed, making J. S. Woodsworth the de facto leader, and giving responsibility for organizing Ontario to Agnes Macphail of the UFO. Macphail, as president of the Ontario Provincial Council, persuaded her fellow delegates at the December 1932 UFO convention to affiliate with the CCF provincial council. After the 1933 Regina convention, the name of the party was introduced as the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Ontario Section) – The Farmer-Labor Party, though the shorter Ontario CCF was the most commonly used name.\n\nMacphail served as the first chairman of the Ontario CCF from 1932 until 1934. As a UFO Member of Parliament (MP) in the Canadian House of Commons, she was forced to resign from the CCF after the UFO withdrew from the party after alleging communist influence in it. Consequently, the UFO's two candidates in the 1934 provincial election, including longtime MLA Farquhar Oliver, ran under the UFO banner rather than with the CCF. Oliver was elected and later joined the Liberals. Macphail later served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as the CCF Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) for York East from 1943 to 1945 and again from 1948 to 1951.\n\nSamuel Lawrence, an Independent Labour Party member of Hamilton City Council, was elected to the Ontario legislature as a CCF MPP in the 1934 provincial election, the first Ontario election contested by the CCF. The party received 7.1 percent of the vote and, with Lawrence's election in Hamilton East, won its first seat in the Ontario Legislature. The Ontario CCF failed to win any seats in the 1937 election. He was elected Ontario CCF president in 1941. and served as Mayor of Hamilton from 1944 to 1949 leading a CCF slate in that city.\n\nAlderman John Mitchell of Hamilton was elected the first Ontario CCF president in 1934 as part of a reorganization of the party after its provincial council had been suspended by federal leader J. S. Woodsworth for suspected communist infiltration. The reorganization created a new provincial council and central party executive and centralized what had been a loose structure of affiliate organizations and riding clubs. It was accompanied by a purge of party clubs and affiliates suspected of having been infiltrated by Communists and the removal of suspected Communists from senior party positions. The reorganization was prompted by complaints of Communist infiltration, due to the party's previously loose structure. In reaction to alleged Communist involvement, the United Farmers of Ontario disaffiliated from the CCF. Mitchell unofficially led the Ontario CCF during the 1934 and conducted a province-wide tour ding the 1937 election campaign but failed to win a seat in the Legislature. He continued as party president until 1941.\n\nGraham Spry, a publisher and broadcaster who was also a member of the LSR, served as the Ontario CCF's vice-president of its provincial council from 1934 to 1936. He was the first federal CCF candidate in Ontario, running in the September 24, 1934 by-election in Toronto East. Other prominent members were Elmore Philpott, a former Liberal. Philpott joined the CCF in 1933 and became president of the Ontario Association of CCF Clubs but resigned in March 1934 over the A. E. Smith affair that had caused the UFO to leave as well. Philpott rejoined the Liberal Party in 1935. The disagreement was in regards to how much support the fledgling CCF should give Smith, leader of the Canadian Labour Defence League, who had been charged with sedition for claiming that the state had attempted to assassinate imprisoned Communist Party of Canada leader Tim Buck. The CLDC was a communist front group. Woodsworth, and the Ontario CCF provincial council, opposed the CCF having any formal links with it or any other communist group. Some individual CCFers ignored this policy as did one section of the Ontario CCF, which was expelled. Nevertheless, Philpott and the UFO saw the Smith affair as evidence that the CCF had been infiltrated by Communists and left. The issue of what relationship the CCF should have with the Communist Party came to the fore again in 1936 when the party voted to ban any united front with Communists, over the objections of prominent CCFers such as East York reeve Arthur Henry Williams.\n\nAt the Ontario CCF's tenth annual convention in Toronto, the first leadership election was held. Two candidates came forward: Toronto lawyer and Ontario CCF vice-president Ted Jolliffe, and union activist and former Ontario CCF Youth Movement organizer Murray Cotterill. On April 4, 1942, Jolliffe won the election, but the voting results were not announced. The newly created Leader position's role was political and legislative, while internal CCF affairs and administration would remain the president's domain.\n\nThe party achieved a major breakthrough under Jolliffe, in the 1943 general election, when it formed the Official Opposition with 32 percent of the vote and 34 seats. The CCF was just four seats short of George Drew's Progressive Conservatives (\"Tories\"), who formed a minority government that was the beginning of what became a 42-year political dynasty.\n\nIn the 1945 election, Premier Drew ran an anti-Semitic, union bashing, Red-baiting campaign. The previous two years of anti-socialist attacks by the Conservatives and their supporters, like Gladstone Murray and Montague A. Sanderson, were devastatingly effective against the previously popular CCF. Much of the source material for the anti-CCF campaign came from the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP)'s Special Investigation Branch's agent D-208: Captain William J. Osbourne-Dempster. His office was supposed to be investigating war-time 5th column saboteurs. Instead, starting in November 1943, he was investigating, almost exclusively, Ontario opposition MPPs, mainly focusing on the CCF caucus. The fact that Jolliffe knew about these 'secret' investigations as early as February 1944 led to one of the most infamous incidents in 20th-century Canadian politics.\n\nThe 1945 campaign was anything but genteel and polite. Jolliffe replied by giving a radio speech – written with the assistance of Lister Sinclair – that accused Drew of running a political Gestapo in Ontario. In the speech excerpt below, Jolliffe alleged that a secret department of the Ontario Provincial Police was acting as a political police – spying on the opposition and the media.\n\nJolliffe's inflammatory speech became the main issue of the campaign, and dominated coverage in the media for the rest of the election. Drew, and his Attorney-General Leslie Blackwell vehemently denied Jolliffe's accusations, but the public outcry was too much for them to abate. On May 26, 1945, during his own radio speech, Drew announced that he would be appointing a Royal Commission to investigate these charges. Jolliffe's CCF and Mitchell Hepburn's Ontario Liberal Party wanted the election suspended until the commission tabled its report. Hepburn sent Drew a personal telegram stating he would stop campaigning if the commission were held immediately. Drew ignored these requests and continued to hold the election on its original date, despite it being many months before the commission's findings would be made available.\n\nJolliffe's CCF went from 34 seats to 8, but almost garnered the same number of votes cast, though their percentage of the popular vote dropped from 32 to 22 percent. A Gallup poll done a month earlier showed the CCF at essentially the same percentage, making it questionable whether or not the \"Gestapo\" speech had an effect on the campaign. Drew, with his attack campaign, successfully drove the voter turn-out up, thereby driving the CCF's percentage and seat totals down.\n\n1945 was one of Ontario's most important elections in the 20th century according to Caplan and David Lewis. It shaped the province for the next 40 years, as the Conservatives won a massive majority in the Legislature, and would remain in government for the next 40 consecutive years–most of that time with majority governments until the mid-1970s.\n\nFor Jolliffe, another election consequence was his tenure as the MPP from York South ended, at least for the time-being. He lost the election but did better than any other CCF candidate in Toronto or in the outlying Yorks.\n\nOn May 28, Drew appointed Justice A.M. LeBel as the Royal Commissioner, thereby forming what has become known as the LeBel Royal Commission. His terms of reference were restricted to the question of whether Drew was personally responsible for the establishment of \"a secret political police organization, for the purpose of collecting, by secret spying, material to be used in attempt to keep him in power.\" Wider questions like why the OPP, Ontario civil servants, were keeping files on MPPs were not allowed.\n\nJolliffe acted as his own counsel throughout the commission, but was assisted by fellow CCF lawyer, Andrew Brewin. He and Brewin were able to establish, from several eyewitnesses, that agent D-208, Dempster, was spying on the CCF. What they could not prove, because they did not have access to the information in 1945, were the letters that Drew wrote to his supporter M.A. (Bugsy) Sanderson suggesting that he would finance any lawsuits or other charges stemming from the information provided by Dempster in his advertisements. Sanderson was, in late 1943 to 1945, along with Gladstone Murray, leading the libellous advertisement campaigns against the CCF in newspapers and billboards, with information gleaned from Dempster's briefings. Jolliffe presented several witnesses that claimed to have seen these documents. But Jolliffe could not produce the letter, and Drew denied ever writing it.\n\nOn October 11, 1945, Justice LeBel issued his report that essentially exonerated Drew and Blackwell. Because Jolliffe presented only circumstantial evidence that linked Drew to Dempster, Murray and Sanderson, the Commissioner found the information unconvincing, even though LeBel believed Dempster's interaction with Sanderson and Murray was inappropriate.\n\nJolliffe's motives regarding his accusations, and his choice of words, were questioned for many years afterwards. In the late 1970s, when David Lewis was doing research for his \"Memoirs\", he came across archival evidence proving the charge. Because of Lewis's discovery, Drew's son Edward, placed extremely restrictive conditions on his father's papers housed in the Public Archives of Canada.\n\nAs Lewis pointed out in his memoirs, \"We found that Premier Drew and Gladstone Murray did not disclose all information to the Lebel Commission; indeed, they deliberately prevaricated throughout. The head of the Government of Ontario had given false witness under testimony... The perpetrator of Ontario's Watergate got away with it.\"\n\nAfter the LeBel Report was published, the Ontario CCF still had to go on with the business of running the party, and hold its annual convention. It had been over 18 months since the previous provincial convention was held. The convention was held from Thursday, November 22, to Saturday, November 24 at the Toronto Labor Lyceum on Spadina Avenue. Jolliffe made it publicly known before the convention that he intended to continue as leader. He ran despite the elements within the party that blamed him for the election defeat. His critics charged that the CCF did not stress policy enough during the election; that the party's platform was too vague, too leader-based, and was too reliant on slogans. Jolliffe was attacked for how he handled the last weeks of the campaign, especially over the \"Gestapo\" speech. These critics also blamed labour's involvement in dumbing-down the campaign, which was seen as the trade unions doing anything to achieve power. It got so bad, that a motion to expel Jolliffe, and David Lewis over these perceived grievances made it on to the convention floor. The motion read, \"the campaign tactics of the 1945 election had been decided by Mr. Jolliffe with the advice of Mr. Lewis and the democratic processes within the CCF had been ignored.\" It was defeated, but it also demonstrated that the party's establishment had angered its socialist militant base.\n\nOn Saturday afternoon, after the grievances were aired, the convention unanimously passed a resolution condemning Premier Drew asking him to stop spying on labour and political officials. After that, the party's establishment candidates held on to their positions: University of Toronto professor, George Grube remained as president, while Jolliffe remained leader.\n\nIn 1946, there was major labour strife in Ontario, and the CCF made it clear they were on the side of the unionists. The party's annual convention was held outside of Toronto for the first time. The convention was held at the Royal Connaught Hotel in Hamilton, Ontario from December 9–11, 1946, the city where the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) went through a long protracted strike about reducing the work-week to 40 hours. Jolliffe faced a leadership challenge at this convention from former Toronto Controller Lewis Duncan. There were rumblings in 1945 that Duncan would take over from Jolliffe, but that was rumoured to be only if he were able to defeat Drew in the High Park constituency, which he failed to do. As party chairman John Mitchell stated at the time, it wasn't even close, as Jolliffe was easily re-elected CCF leader again for the fourth time. Professor Grube stepped down as the president, and Andrew Brewin succeeded him after defeating former York South MP, Joseph W. Noseworthy by four votes. The main resolution that would affect the upcoming provincial election was one that condemned Drew's government for its hastily approved legislation allowing for cocktail bars to operate in Ontario.\n\nThough the 1948 election came about a year sooner than normal, the Ontario CCF had been expecting this because of the polling information available that indicated that Drew's popularity was falling. The CCF were able to rebound from their previous dismal election performance in 1945, and this time managed to get 21 members elected, including Jolliffe in York South, to again form the Official Opposition.\n\nThe real surprise was that Premier Drew lost his seat, even though his Progressive Conservatives won a majority. In his High Park constituency, Drew was up against his local nemesis William (Bill) Temple. Temple was a temperance campaigner and made Drew's cocktail bar legislation the main campaign issue. Temple castigated Drew for softening Ontario's liquor laws, claiming the Premier was the captive of \"liquor interests\" because of the government's decision to allow liquor sales in cocktail bars. While Drew's party swept to victory across the province, Drew was defeated by Temple, and decided to resign as premier and move to federal politics.\n\nThe CCF's return to popularity was short-lived because of the prosperity of the 1950s and the anti-Communist hysteria of the Cold War. This rapid decline in their popularity reduced the party to two seats in the 1951 election and allowed the Ontario Liberal Party to become the Official Opposition. No social democratic party would be the Official Opposition again until 1975, when Stephen Lewis's NDP displaced the Liberals as the second party in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario.\n\nBeginning with the 1951 provincial campaign, the Ontario Federation of Labour (OFL) played an increased role in the Ontario CCF by lending it organizational, personnel and material support. The increasing role of the trade union leadership in the party was unpopular with some activists like MPP Bill Temple. The \"Ginger Group\" led by Temple, True Davidson and others was formed in the wake of the disastrous 1951 electoral result which they blamed on the \"bureaucratization\" of the party and its movement away from socialist principles and particularly socialist education, developments for which they held what they saw as the conservative, anti-democratic and bureaucratic influence of the OFL as responsible. At the party's 1952 convention, Temple ran for party leader but withdrew at the last moment, allowing Jolliffe to be acclaimed leader. Temple did not stop from making trouble for the establishment, when he ran for party president, and almost won. He and Davidson were elected to the party executive as vice-presidents and the Ginger Group elected a number of its followers to the provincial council. They were unsuccessful in achieving their goals, however. The increasing role of the OFL in the Ontario CCF proved to be a precursor to the eventual fusion of the national CCF and the trade union movement with the creation of the New Democratic Party of Canada at the federal and provincial levels in 1961.\n\nDonald C. MacDonald became leader in 1953, and spent the next years rebuilding the party, from two seats when he took over the party's helm, to three in his first election and then five in 1959. Delegates from the Ontario CCF, delegates from affiliated union locals, and delegates from New Party Clubs took part in the founding convention of the New Democratic Party of Ontario held in Niagara Falls at the Sheraton Brock Hotel from 7–9 October 1961 and elected MacDonald as their leader. The Ontario CCF Council ceased to exist on Sunday, 8 October 1961, when the newly elected NDP executive officially took over. The rebuilding process continued under Macdonald who led a 20-person caucus by the time he stepped down in 1970.\n\nThere was no party leader prior to 1942. From 1932 to 1934 Agnes Macphail, as chair of the Ontario CCF provincial council, was the main co-spokesperson. Her other co-spokesperson was Elmore Philpott – from 1933 to 1934 – as president of the Ontario Association of CCF Clubs. They were the most prominent figures in the Ontario party and acted as spokespersons until their March 1934 resignations.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1942 the new position of Ontario CCF president was the party's effective leader.\n\nOntario CCF president John Mitchell, a Hamilton alderman, led the party's campaigns in the 1934 and 1937 Ontario elections.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1937 Samuel Lawrence, MPP for Hamilton East led the party in the legislature as its sole MPP. Lawrence succeeded Mitchell as party president in 1941 and recommended that the party select a leader at its 1942 convention.\n\n\nW. J. Grummett (Cochrane South) was House Leader of the CCF, leading the party in the Ontario Legislature from 1951, when Jolliffe lost his seat, until 1955, when MacDonald entered the legislature.\n\nMacDonald became the first leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party when it was formed in 1961.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38442762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38442762", "title": "Convention of Royal Burghs", "text": "Convention of Royal Burghs\n\nThe Convention of Royal Burghs, more fully termed the Convention of the Royal Burghs of Scotland, was a representative assembly which protected the privileges and pursued the interests of Scotland’s principal trading towns, the royal burghs, from the middle of the 16th century to the second half of the 20th century. It evolved as a forum in which burgh delegates, termed \"commissioners\", could \"consult together and take common action in matters concerning their common welfare\" before and during the sittings of parliament. An exclusively merchant body, it was essentially a parliament which \"declared the law of the burghs\" just as the Scottish Parliament \"declared the law of the land\". The Convention expanded over time by admitting lesser burghs to its membership; and by the 16th century had grown in influence to the extent that \"it was listened to rather than directed by the government\". Though still known as the \"convention of royal burghs\", it referred to itself from the late 17th century onwards as simply the \"convention of burghs\", as by then membership was no longer restricted exclusively to royal burghs and commissioners from all types of burgh were represented in parliament.\n\nThe mediaeval roots of the Convention lay in the 13th-century Court of the Four Burghs which comprised delegates from Berwick, Edinburgh, Roxburgh and Stirling. (In 1369 Lanark and Linlithgow replaced Berwick and Roxburgh after these came under English occupation.) Representatives of these burghs met in advance of parliamentary sittings and communicated with the sovereign through the Court or through the Chamberlain who presided over its meetings in his function as the Crown’s chief fiscal officer. The Court, described in a charter from the reign of James II (1430-60) as the Parliament of the Four Burghs, determined burghal law (\"leges burgorum\"), settled inter-burghal disputes and heard appeals from burgh courts. The earliest record of its deliberations dates from 1292 when \"the four burghs\" were asked to interpret the law on a question of debt. The Court applied a single set of rules and its decisions were binding on all royal burghs.\n\nThe evolution of burgh representation in relation to the history of the Scottish Parliament was a long and gradual process, the record of which has been to a large extent obscured by the loss of Scotland's national records at various times in the country's history. The fragmentary nature of the surviving evidence makes it difficult to give a precise chronology of the development.\n\nAs the main source of specie in the kingdom the burghs were specially summoned by royal letters to convene at the sittings of parliament.\nThe traditionally accepted date for the first occasion of their being present is 1326, when they were summoned to appear at the parliament of Robert I held at Cambuskenneth. The reason appears to have been the King's need to restore damage done to the royal demesnes during the Wars of Independence, It is not, however, clear whether the burgesses sat alongside the bishops and barons as a separate estate within the parliament itself.\n\nWhen taxation had to be raised to pay the ransom for the release of David II from English captivity, the burghs were consulted again at Scone in 1357 and empowered to negotiate the release. Thus, 1357 has been seen as the date for burgh commissioners establishing themselves as a political class within the parliament, indicated by the first use of the term \"three estates (\"tres communitates\") of the realm\" to describe the parliament's composition.\nThe burghs were consulted again at the parliament held in Stirling in 1405 when 50,000 merks had to be raised for \"the King's fynance\", to meet Henry VI's demand for \"expenses incurred\" by James I during his long imprisonment in England.\n\nThe \"Court of Four\" continued to function until 1529, \"the provost of the burgh where the meeting was held acting as president\", though the Chamberlain still attended\n\nThe growing importance of the Convention can be traced through the reign of James III (r.1460-88) when the burghs contributed one fifth of the total sum of national taxation granted by Parliament. From 1455 onwards, Parliament was attended on average by 16 burghs, rising to 22 in 1469, 23 in 1471 and 33 by the end of the reign in 1488. Geographical representation also widened and meetings became more frequent. An Act of Parliament in 1487 ordained that commissioners of all burghs should meet annually to deal with matters of common concern.\n...that Commissioners of all Burrowes baith south and north [of the Spey], sall convene and gadder together aince ilk yeare [annually] in the Burche of Inverkeithin [burgh of Inverkeithing], on the morning eftir Sanct James daie, with full commissioune, and thair to commune and treate upoune the weilfare of merchandise, the gude rule and statutis for the common profite of the Burrowis, and to provide for remeid upoune the skaith [damage] and injuries sustened, within the Burrowis, and quhat Burche that compeiris nocht [does not comply], the saides daie, be thair Commissaris, to paye to the costis of the Commissaris present, five pundis...\n\nBy the time more or less continuous records begin in the middle of the 16th century (1552), the Convention met regularly as a separate assembly to decide on a common policy for adoption by Parliament. The editor of its Records, Sir James Marwick, relates that the Convention was summoned by royal letters in 1529, 1530–31, 1539 and 1556. Records from the regency of Mary of Guise suggest that the burghs themselves fixed the date and place of their conventions, a practice later confirmed by statute in 1581. In 1563 they gained the right to be consulted on \"peace and war\" and, from 1567, on \"weighty affairs\" of the realm. In 1578 James VI authorised them to meet \"foure tymes in the yeare for sic materis as concerns thair Estait, and in quhatever Burche it sal be thocht expedient. Annual records of the Convention begin in that year.\n\nMarwick summarised the Convention’s functions thus,\n\nScarcely anything affecting Burghs of Scotland, in their internal administration, or in their commercial relations at home and abroad, escaped the cognizance of the Convention. It defined the rights, privileges and duties of Burghs; it regulated the merchandise, manufactures and shipping of the country, it exercised control over the Scottish merchants in France, Flanders and other countries in Europe, with which from time to time commercial relations existed; it sent commissioners to foreign powers, and to great commercial communities, entered into treaties with them, and established the staple trade of Scotland wherever this could be most advantageously done: it claimed the right, independently of the Crown, to nominate the Conservator [official charged with safeguarding the privileges of the Scottish staple in Flanders]. And it certainly did regulate his emoluments, and control his conduct; it sometimes defrayed, and sometimes contributed towards, the expenses of ambassadors from the Scottish Court to that of France and other foreign powers in matters affecting the Burghs and the common weal; it allocated among the whole Burghs of the Kingdom their proportion of all extents and taxes granted by the three Estates of the realm; it adjudicated on the claims of Burghs to be admitted to the privileges of free Burghs, and to be added to its roll; it took cognizance of weights and measures.\"\n\nOn 21 August 1604, the Convention agreed articles for the guidance of the Scottish Commissioners appointed to negotiate arrangements under the Union of the Crowns. The first called for the upholding of Scots Law, \"that the inhabitants of Scotland be ruled and governed by the laws of this realme, and no way subject to any other law\"; the second urged \"that in the Treaty of Union nothing be touched which may prejudice the ancient liberties, privileges, immunities, infeftments [possession of heritable property], and laws, made in favour of the burghs by his Majesty and his Highnesses most noble progenitors.\"\n\nThe relative importance of the Convention in the 17th century can be judged from a statement made by the Lord Advocate, George Mackenzie of Rosehaugh, that \"The burrows of Scotland have liberty to meet in time of Parliament, and to propose as a Body and Third Estate, Overtures for Trade; but no other estate of Parliament can lawfully meet [i.e. outside Parliament], this being a singularity indulged to them for the Good of Commerce.\" Burghs of regality or of barony, hitherto excluded from participating in foreign trade, were accorded the privilege in 1672. but to maintain the pre-eminent position of the royal burghs an Act of Parliament (1690) stipulated the sum to be paid by the lesser burghs to reduce the burden of taxation imposed on the royal burghs. By 1689, 70 burghs were members of the Convention, though, according to one study, the royal burghs remained the dominant influence throughout the period: \"...meetings did not always involve the whole estate suggesting that a smaller group of wealthier burghs were the driving force behind the convention in general and burghs' parliamentary agenda in particular.\n\nIt has been argued that the effect of the Convention was to make the burgesses historically the most organised of the three estates represented in the Scots parliament. It also \"ensured that urban government was much more uniform in Scotland than in England, producing, as the commissioners' inquiry into the Municipal Corporations of Scotland discovered in 1833–1835, considerable corruption amongst self-electing, clone-like burgh establishments\". The main concern of the Convention in the early part of the 19th century became \"the blocking of reform. The Municipal Reform Act of 1834 sharply reduced its influence and its abolition was considered for a time. The admission to it of parliamentary burghs in 1879 and police burghs in 1895 gave it an added lease of life though probably little extra influence.\"\nThe Convention was viewed by Westminster politicians in the late 19th century as \"thoroughly representative of public opinion in Scotland\" and \"as giving those who have to deal with the affairs of Scotland an opportunity of feeling the pulse of Scotland\". In 1899, it consisted of 103 burghs and 207 representatives in an organisation described by a Scottish government minister as \"the oldest existing representative body in Europe\".\nThe same study observes that, \"the Convention can probably lay claim to being one of the wordiest of Scottish institutions, if measured by the voluminous nature of its records. But its importance was relatively slight\".\n\nThe Convention was abolished when local government was regionally reorganised in 1975 in line with the recommendations of the Wheatley Report of 1969. It was superseded by the present-day Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (COSLA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41107927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107927", "title": "Corruption in Poland", "text": "Corruption in Poland\n\nCorruption in Poland has declined over time in the recent years. In international rankings it is below the world average but not insignificant. Within Poland, surveys of Polish citizens reveal that it is perceived to be a major problem.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 36th place out of 180 countries. It is the eighth successive year in which Poland's score and ranking have improved in the Index.\n\nGlobal Integrity 2010 report gave Poland the score of 80 out of a 100 assessing the legal framework as 86 (strong) and actual implementation as 71 (moderate). The report scored Poland particularly well (score of 90) in categories for \"Non-Governmental Organizations, Public Information and Media\" and \"Elections\", and particularly low in the category for \"Public Administration and Professionalism\" (score of 59).\nA 2011 report by the Institute of Public Affairs also criticized the standards of public life in Poland, and the prevalence of nepotism and cronyism.\n\nA 2012 report jointly prepared by from the Institute of Public Affairs and Transparency International notes that the corruption in Poland is lower than in the past, when in the mid-1990s it was \"a phenomenon of a systemic nature\". As described in that report, the World Bank Worldwide Governance Indicators (accessible here ) for \"rule of law\" and \"control of corruption\" show steady improvement for Poland. Poland has joined the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention in 2000, implementing relevant legislation in 2001. Poland has also made significant progress in combating corruption like the establishment of the Central Anti-Corruption Bureau and the first anti-corruption strategy which was adopted in 2002.\n\nThe 2012 report from the ISP and TI report, reviewing individual Polish anti-corruption institution, praised the Supreme Audit Office (NIK), followed by the Polish Ombudsman (RPO). It criticized the civil society,the private sector, and the executive and public administration of insufficient efforts in fighting corruption. Poland's watchdog organisations are considered weak in combating corruption, and corruption allegations often appear in government contracting and permit issuance.\n\nThe 2012 report from the ISP and TI praised the overall direction of the anti-corruption efforts in Poland, noting that they are \"bringing noticeable results\", but noted that those efforts, particularly from the public authorities, are \"rather chaotic, sometimes contradictory or even controversial\". It concluded that \"corruption in Poland still entails considerable risks\" and \"the level of anti-corruption protection is unsatisfactory\". A 2013 OECD report analyzing the implementation of the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention concluded that \"the current Polish framework for fighting foreign bribery is still inadequate\".\n\nA 2013 survey in Poland found that 83% of surveyed Polish citizens think that corruption is a major problem for their country, particularly prevalent among politicians (62 percent) and in the health-care sector (53 percent). A growing number of citizens (57%) is concerned that there is no political will to fight corruption.\n\nIn the early 1920s, during the first years of the Second Polish Republic, Polish institutions were plagued by endemic corruption, and several of the governments of the day were accused of corruption, very likely with sound cause. Between 1923 and 1926, Józef Piłsudski came to conclude that the system which he dubbed \"Sejmocracy\" fostered general corruption, ultimately leading him to launch the May Coup and seize power. His byword Sanation referred to the cleansing he promised to introduce, in contrast to his predecessors' shady practices.\n\nHowever, once in power, his allies uncovered very few cases of corruption in past governments; persistent references to mass corruption amounted to a type of \"primitive propaganda\", in the words of historian Andrzej Garlicki. Later, it was Piłsudskiites who became embroiled in a well-publicized scandal revolving around election budgets, the Czechowicz Affair. By the 1930s, the country had developed an economic model involving state capitalism, with key industries in government hands. While this fostered growth in vital areas, it also gave rise to inefficiency and corruption. Private businesses found it hard to compete directly with state-owned concerns, in particular for public contracts.\n\nIn the communist People's Republic of Poland, corruption was widespread, particularly by Polish United Workers Party officials (\"see nomenklatura\"). Corruption under the communist regime was so pervasive that some scholars have referred to the system as \"legalized corruption\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28460051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28460051", "title": "Corruption in the Philippines", "text": "Corruption in the Philippines\n\nThe Philippines suffers from widespread corruption. Means of corruption include graft, bribery, embezzlement, backdoor deals, nepotism, and patronage.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 111th place out of 180 countries. \n\nThis is better than the Philippines' 129th out of 178,ranking in 2011 with a 2.6 CPI, in Transparency International's list. The CPI score indicates the perceived level of public sector corruption on a scale of 0 - 100, where 0 means that a country is perceived as highly corrupt and 100 means that a country is perceived as very clean.\n\nTransparency International-Philippines said some of the factors that contributed to the Philippines' (2.6) slight jump are the improvement in government service, and cutting red tape.\n\nThe Philippines' corruption further declined in 2014 upgrading its ranking on Transparency.org CPI from 94th to 85th in 2013 and 2014, respectively.\n\nFor the list of rankings per country per year, please see http://www.transparency.org/research/cpi/overview\n\nThe Philippine political arena is mainly arranged and operated by families or alliances of families, rather than organised around the voting for political parties.\n\nCalled the Padrino System, one gains favor, promotion, or political appointment through family affiliation (nepotism) or friendship (cronyism), as opposed to one's merit. The \"Padrino System\" in the Philippines has been the source of many controversies and corruption.\n\nIt has been an open secret that one cannot join the political arena of the Philippines without mastery of the Padrino System. From the lowest Barangay official, to the President of the Republic, it is expected that one gains political debts and dispenses political favor to advance one's career or influence, if not wealth.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "41034170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41034170", "title": "Croatian constitutional referendum, 2013", "text": "Croatian constitutional referendum, 2013\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Croatia on 1 December 2013. The proposed amendment to the constitution would define marriage as being a union between a man and a woman, which would create a constitutional prohibition against same-sex marriage. 37.9% of eligible voters voted. After processing all of the ballots, the State Election Commission announced that 65.87% voted \"yes\", 33.51% \"no\" and 0.57% of ballots were disregarded as invalid.\n\nThe referendum was called after a conservative organization \"U ime obitelji\" (“On Behalf of the Family”) gathered more than 700,000 signatures in May 2013 demanding a referendum on the subject. The initiative was supported by conservative political parties, the Catholic Church as well as by several other faith groups. The ruling left-wing coalition opposed the amendment along with numerous human rights organizations and the majority of the Croatian media.\n\nA petition in favor of the change was organized by a Catholic citizens' group 'On Behalf of the Family' (\"U ime obitelji\") and collected over 700,000 signatures by May 2013. The initiative was a reaction to the government's proposal to legalize same-sex partnership. The referendum was approved following a vote in the Sabor on 8 November in which 104 of the 151 MPs voted in favor of holding a referendum.\n\nThe group Citizens Voting Against was formed from 88 civil society organizations (led GONG, Center for Peace Studies and Zagreb Pride), supported by numerous public persons, film actors and actresses, academics, activists and politicians, including media such as Novi list and Jutarnji list and musicians, such as Severina, Dubioza kolektiv, Let 3, Hladno pivo, TBF and others.\n\nThe Vote Against campaign claimed that the public faces of the initiative Željka Markić, Krešimir Planinić, Krešimir Miletić, Ladislav Ilčić, as well as members of their families, were simultaneously leaders of the referendum effort and candidates of the right wing political party HRAST. The Vote Against and the broader coalition of civil society organizations, Platform 112, claimed that the bank account listed on 'On behalf of the Family' web site does not belong to the initiative but an \"ad-hoc\" registered association \"Građani odlučuju\" (\"The citizens decide\") which was founded by the Vice-president of HRAST Krešimir Miletić.\n\nŽeljka Markić was furthermore criticized by opponents for allegedly being a member of the controversial Catholic organization Opus Dei.\n\nVoters were asked the question:\n\nAfter the initiative gathered enough signatures to hold a referendum, it was widely speculated that the referendum would still not be held. The political willingness in the Sabor to call a referendum was uncertain given that a left-wing coalition which opposed the proposed amendment held a majority of the seats.\n\nHowever, in a session held on 8 November, the Sabor voted to call a national referendum, with 104 votes in favour, 13 against and five abstentions. A former Prime Minister and an independent MP Jadranka Kosor proposed that the request for the review of constitutionality of the referendum be submitted to the Constitutional Court. However, the two largest parties, the HDZ and SDP, did not embrace the proposal and it was rejected by 75 votes against and 39 in favour. The only political party of the ruling coalition that supported the constitutional review was the HNS.\n\nAfter a two-day session, on 14 November the Constitutional Court of Croatia announced that there is no reason to over-rule the parliamentary vote on the referendum. The judges emphasized that the constitutionality of the referendum itself was not considered, because they believed that the Sabor had expressed its legal willingness to deem the referendum question compliant with the Constitution. However, they further emphasized that any possible amendment to the Constitution that defined marriage as a union of man and woman could not affect further development of the legal framework of the institution of extramarital and same-sex unions. The Constitutional Court did not rule on the constitutionality of the referendum because it was not officially requested to do so by the Croatian Parliament.\n\nThe judges were divided in opinion on whether the Constitutional Court should review the constitutionality of the referendum. Several of them pointed out that the Constitutional Court must give a statement on what the constitutional definition of marriage means for the position of LGBT minorities in Croatia. Others explained that the Constitutional Court did not need to respond to citizen proposals, because only the Sabor had the right to request a review of the constitutionality of the referendum question, but which it has refused to do when making the decision to call a referendum.\n\nThe Prime Minister Zoran Milanović told HRT that he would vote against the proposal. President Ivo Josipović called the referendum unnecessary, without practical political consequences regardless of the outcome, and a waste of taxpayer money. The president furthermore commented that marriage has already been defined in Croatian law as a union of man and woman, but that the referendum question has a strong psychological effect with an underlying discriminatory message.\n\nTomislav Karamarko, leader of the conservative Croatian Democratic Union said he would vote in favor. Four other parties in the Parliament also supported the referendum; in total 104 of 151 members of the Croatian Parliament supported it.\n\n\"Jutarnji list\", one of the country's two largest newspapers, announced it would openly endorse the campaign against the amendment. A similar statement was later made by \"Novi list\".\n\nThe Croatian Bishops' Conference called for Croatian Catholics to vote in favour of the constitutional amendment. Representatives from the Croatian Bishops' Conference, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Reformed Christian (Calvinist) Church, the Baptist Union of Croatia, the Evangelical Pentecostal Church, the Bet Israel Jewish Community and the Mesihat of Croatia issued a joint statement in support of the referendum on 12 November. However, the Croatian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Jewish Community of Zagreb opposed the proposed amendment. The Rabbinical Center of Europe has written a statement in support of the referendum and the civil initiative 'On behalf of the family', saying they were \"very disturbed at reports that some have compared this pro-marriage initiative with the Nazi regime and the ideology of fascism\".\n\nCardinal Josip Bozanić encouraged support for the amendment in a letter that was read in churches where he singled out heterosexual marriage as being the only kind of union that is capable of biologically producing children.\nBozanić repeatedly called the issue of marriage naming a serious issue for country's future and reiterated the viewpoint that it is not Church's intent to discriminate against anybody, but only to \"preserve what we already have\". He remarked that the referendum was an opportunity for Christians to practically manifest their fate by voting yes, by respecting God's intent and serving the Truth. He echoed his previous statements that marriage and family are not a private affair of the individual which they can shape as they see fit, but are of wider social significance and must not be experimented upon.\n\nThe initiative and their goals were generally unfavorably reported by the mainstream Croatian media.\n\nOn the day of the referendum the initiative decided to forbid access to their headquarters to the journalists belonging to a group of selected media whom the initiative accused of bias, unprofessionalism and plagiarism. Among these were the Croatian Radiotelevision, the public broadcasting company, the most visited Croatian Internet portals Index.hr, Net.hr and T-portal, as well as all of the publications by Europapress Holding and Novi list. The initiative required of all of the journalists to submit their cell phone numbers, their home addresses, e-mail addresses as well as the name and e-mail address of their editors. This was strongly denounced by the Croatian Journalists' Association who invited all of the media to boycott the coverage of initiative on the referendum day, and emphasized the potential for the abuse of private information.\nAll of the major Croatia media have responded to the call and in solidarity with the banned journalists have completely boycotted the coverage of the initiative.\n\nA poll conducted in June 2013 revealed that 55.3% of Croats support the changes, while 31.1% said they were opposed.\n\nAnother poll from November revealed that 54.3% of respondents will vote for the proposal and 33.6% against. 12.1% of respondents said they were not sure. The same poll revealed that 85.7% of HDZ voters and 39.5% of SDP voters support the proposed amendment.\n\nA poll published by HRT two days before the vote showed that 59% of respondents would vote for the proposal, 31% against and 10% did not answer.\n\nAfter processing all of the ballots, the State Election Commission announced that 65.87% voted \"yes\", 33.51% \"no\" and 0.57% of ballots were disregarded as invalid. 37.9% of eligible voters have voted.\n\nPula, Rijeka, Varaždin and Čakovec were the only large cities, and Istria county and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County were the only counties where the majority of the voters voted \"no\". The counties most supportive of changes were in the Croatian South: Šibenik-Knin, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva, and Brod-Posavina. This relative polarization of results between Croatian North and South has been interpreted by sociologists as closely connected to economic indicators as well as the extent to which the regions were affected by the war in the 1990s. In the capital Zagreb, 43.5% of voters voted \"no\", which was interpreted as the capital being an amalgam of \"largely incompatible tendencies\".\n\nStatistical analysis by electoral units has also indicated a strong correlation to political choices, with regions whose citizens voted for right-wing parties generally voting in favor of the referendum, while regions who voted for the left-wing coalition were largely against the referendum - albeit with many exceptions.\n\nThe Prime Minister Zoran Milanović rejected accusations by civic initiatives that the government was complicit in calling the referendum. Milanović pointed out that the referendum was allowed by the constitution, that it is in no way related to the government, and no way does it change the existing definition of marriage according to Croatian laws. He further announced the upcoming enactment of the Law on Partnership, which will enable same-sex persons to form a \"lifetime partnership\" union. Such a union will share the same rights as that of marriage proper, apart from the fact that gay couples will not be able to adopt children, though they will be allowed to have custody of them.\n\nVesna Pusić, the First Deputy Prime Minister, also rejected accusations on government's responsibility, commenting that the referendum is result of an omission, when the threshold of 50 percent voter turnout was abolished to pass the 2012 EU membership referendum. Pusić contended that the threshold had protected certain groups from discrimination by a minority, but care was not taken to specifically exempt human, civil and minority rights from being the subject of referendum questions.\n\nHannes Swoboda, the President of the European Socialists, said that he \"was deeply disappointed because he saw Croatia as an open and advanced society, and not as a country which prohibits happiness and equal rights\".\n\nHungary's ruling Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP) welcomed the results, which cheered the approval of partnership based on \"the order of nature\" and the affirmation of marriage \"in the Christian sense\". According to the KDNP, it is the victory of the \"European Christian values\".\n\nThe Rabbinical Centre of Europe issued a statement that it was disturbed by comparisons between the initiative and the Nazi regime and totalitarian fascism, and that such statements were inappropriate and insulting to the memory of millions of their victims.\n\nCroatian bishop Vlado Košić described the government official's opposition to the referendum as shocking, unacceptable and undemocratic, emphasizing that Croats are Catholic people, cherishing traditions by which they have lived for centuries. He accused the government of atheizing the population, being eager to erase their traditional values, and has called for their resignation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12288502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12288502", "title": "Dekulakization", "text": "Dekulakization\n\nDekulakization (, \"raskulachivanie\"; , \"rozkurkulennia\") was the Soviet campaign of political repressions, including arrests, deportations, and executions of millions of wealthy peasants and their families in the 1929–1932 period of the First five-year plan. To facilitate the expropriations of farmland, the Soviet government portrayed kulaks as class enemies of the USSR.\n\nMore than 1.8 milion peasants were deported in 1930–1931. The campaign had the stated purpose of fighting counter-revolution and of building socialism in the countryside. This policy, carried out simultaneously with collectivization in the Soviet Union, effectively brought all agriculture and all the peasants in Soviet Russia under state control.\n\nA combination of dekulakization and collectivization led to mass starvation in many parts of the Soviet Union and the death of an estimated 11 million peasants in the period between 1929 and 1933, including 4 million deaths during the dekulakization campaign. The results soon became known outside the Soviet Union. In 1941, the American journalist H. R. Knickerbocker wrote: \"It is a conservative estimate to say that some 5,000,000 [kulaks] ... died at once, or within a few years.\"\n\nIn November 1917, at a meeting of delegates of the committees of poor peasants, Lenin announced a new policy to eliminate supposedly wealthy Soviet peasants, known as \"kulaks\": \"If the kulaks remain untouched, if we don't defeat the freeloaders, the czar and the capitalist will inevitably return.\" In July 1918, \"Committees of the Poor\" were created to represent poor peasants, which played an important role in the struggle against the kulaks, and led the process of redistribution of confiscated lands and inventory, food surpluses from the kulaks. This launched the beginning of a great crusade against grain speculators and kulaks. Before being dismissed in December 1918, the Committees had confiscated 50 million hectares of kulak land.\n\nJoseph Stalin announced the \"liquidation of the kulaks as a class\" on 27 December 1929. Stalin had said: \"Now we have the opportunity to carry out a resolute offensive against the kulaks, break their resistance, eliminate them as a class and replace their production with the production of kolkhozes and sovkhozes.\" The Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party formalized the decision in a resolution titled \"On measures for the elimination of kulak households in districts of comprehensive collectivization\" on 30 January 1930. All kulaks were assigned to one of three categories:\n\n\nAn OGPU secret-police functionary, Yefim Yevdokimov (1891–1939), played a major role in organizing and supervising the round-up of peasants and the mass executions.\n\nIn February 1928, the \"Pravda\" newspaper for the first time published materials that claimed to expose the kulaks: they described widespread domination by the rich peasantry in the countryside and invasion by kulaks of communist party cells. Expropriation of grain stocks from kulaks and middle class peasants was called a \"temporary emergency measure\". Later, temporary emergency measures turned into a policy of \"eliminating the kulaks as a class\".\n\nThe party's appeal to the policy of eliminating the kulaks as a class had been formulated by Stalin:\n\nIn 1928 the right opposition of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was still trying to support the prosperous peasantry and to soften the struggle against the kulaks. In particular, Alexei Rykov, criticizing the policy of dekulakization and \"methods of war communism,\" declared that an attack on the kulaks should be carried out, but not by methods of so-called dekulakization. He argued against taking action against individual farming in the village, the productivity of which was two times lower than in European countries. He believed that the most important task of the party was the development of the individual farming of peasants with the help of the government.\n\nActive measures to eliminate the well-to-do peasantry were welcomed by the poor, who feared that \"the party set its course on the kulak.\" The party noted that \"the poor continue to regard our policy in the countryside as a sharp turn from the poor to the middle peasant and the kulak,\" describing the perceived reaction of the poor to the \"new course\" of the Fourteenth Party Congress in 1925. Increasingly, the government noticed an open and resolute protest among the poor against the well-to-do middle peasants.\n\nThe growing discontent of the poor peasants was reinforced by the famine in the countryside. The Bolsheviks preferred to blame the \"rural counterrevolution\" of the kulaks, intending to aggravate the attitude of the people towards the party: \"We must repulse the kulak ideology coming in the letters from the village. The main advantage of the kulak is bread embarrassments.\" Red Army peasants sent letters supporting anti-kulak ideology: \"The kulaks are the furious enemies of socialism. We must destroy them, don't take them to the kolkhoz, you must take away their property, their inventory.\" The letter of the Red Army soldier of the 28th Artillery Regiment became widely known: \"The last bread is taken away, the Red Army family is not considered. Although you are my dad, I do not believe you. I'm glad that you had a good lesson. Sell bread, carry surplus - this is my last word.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "771097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=771097", "title": "Delhi Durbar", "text": "Delhi Durbar\n\nThe Delhi Durbar (meaning \"Court of Delhi) was an Indian imperial style mass assembly organised by the British at Coronation Park, Delhi, India, to mark the succession of an Emperor or Empress of India. Also known as the Imperial Durbar, it was held three times, in 1877, 1903, and 1911, at the height of the British Empire. The 1911 Durbar was the only one that a sovereign, George V, attended. The term was derived from the common Mughal term \"durbar\".\n\nCalled the \"Proclamation Durbar\", the Durbar of 1877, for which the organisation was undertaken by Thomas Henry Thornton, was held beginning on 1 January 1877 to proclaim Queen Victoria as Empress of India by the British. The 1877 Durbar was largely an official event and not a popular occasion with mass participation like later durbars in 1903 and 1911. It was attended by the 1st Earl of Lytton—Viceroy of India, maharajas, nawabs and intellectuals. This was the culmination of transfer of control of much of India from the British East India Company to The Crown.\n\nInside the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta is an inscription taken from the Message of Queen Victoria presented at the 1877 Durbar to the people of India:\n\nWe trust that the present occasion may tend to unite in bonds of close affection ourselves and our subjects; that from the highest to the humblest, all may feel that under our rule the great principles of liberty, equity, and justice are secured to them; and to promote their happiness, to add to their prosperity, and advance their welfare, are the ever present aims and objects of our Empire.\n\nThe Empress of India Medal to commemorate the Proclamation of the Queen as Empress of India was struck and distributed to the honoured guests, and Ramanath Tagore was made a Maharaja by Lord Lytton, viceroy of India.\n\nIt was at this glittering durbar that Ganesh Vasudeo Joshi, wearing \"\"homespun spotless white khadi\" rose to read a citation on behalf of the grass roots native political organization, the Poona Sarvajanik Sabha, which organization presaged the later rise of the Indian National Congress. Joshi's citation put forth a demand couched in very polite language:\n\nHer Majesty to grant to India the same political and social status as is enjoyed by her British subjects.\n\nWith this demand, it can be said that the campaign for a free India was formally launched, which was the beginning of a great transformation for India.\n\nThe durbar would later be seen as controversial because it directed funds away from the Great Famine of 1876–78.\n\nThe durbar was held to celebrate the succession of Edward VII and Alexandra of Denmark as Emperor and Empress of India.\n\nThe two full weeks of festivities were devised in meticulous detail by Lord Curzon, Viceroy of India. It was a dazzling display of pomp, power and split second timing. Neither the earlier Delhi Durbar of 1877, nor the later Durbar held there in 1911, could match the pageantry of Lord Curzon’s 1903 festivities. In a few short months at the end of 1902, a deserted plain was transformed into an elaborate tented city, complete with temporary light railway to bring crowds of spectators out from Delhi, a post office with its own stamp, telephone and telegraphic facilities, a variety of stores, a Police force with specially designed uniform, hospital, magistrate’s court and complex sanitation, drainage and electric light installations. Souvenir guide books were sold and maps of the camping ground distributed. Marketing opportunities were craftily exploited. A special Delhi Durbar Medal was struck, firework displays, exhibitions and glamorous dances held.\n\nEdward VII, to Curzon’s disappointment, did not attend but sent his brother, the Duke of Connaught who arrived with a mass of dignitaries by train from Bombay just as Curzon and his government came in the other direction from Calcutta. The assembly awaiting them displayed possibly the greatest collection of jewels to be seen in one place. Each of the Indian princes was adorned with the most spectacular of his gems from the collections of centuries. Maharajahs came with great retinues from all over India, many of them meeting for the first time while the massed ranks of the Indian armies, under their Commander-in-Chief Lord Kitchener, paraded, played their bands and restrained the crowds of common people.\n\nOn the first day, the Curzons entered the area of festivities, together with the maharajahs, riding on elephants, some with huge gold candelabras stuck on their tusks. The durbar ceremony itself fell on New Year's Day and was followed by days of polo and other sports, dinners, balls, military reviews, bands, and exhibitions. The world’s press dispatched their best journalists, artists and photographers to cover proceedings. The popularity of movie footage of the event, shown in makeshift cinemas throughout India, is often credited with having launched the country’s early film industry.\n\nThe India Post issued a set of two commemorative souvenir sheets with special cancellation struck on 1 January 1903 – 12 noon, a much sought after item for the stamp collectors today.\n\nThe event culminated in a grand coronation ball attended only by the highest ranking guests, all reigned over by Lord Curzon and more so by the stunning Lady Curzon in her glittering jewels and regal peacock gown.\n\nOn 22 March 1911, a royal proclamation announced that the Durbar would be held in December to commemorate the coronation in Britain a few months earlier of George V and Mary of Teck and allow their proclamation as Emperor and Empress of India. Practically every ruling prince and nobleman in India, plus thousands of landed gentry and other persons of note, attended to pay obeisance to their sovereigns.\n\nThe official ceremonies lasted from 7 December to 16 December, with the Durbar itself occurring on Tuesday, 12 December. The royal couple arrived at Coronation Park in their Coronation robes, the King-Emperor wearing the Imperial Crown of India with eight arches, containing 6170 exquisitely cut diamonds, and covered with sapphires, emeralds and rubies, with a velvet and miniver cap all weighing 34.05 ounces (965 g). They received homage from the native princes – including one woman, the Begum of Bhopal – at the shamiana (ceremonial tent); controversy ensued when the Gaekwar of Baroda, Maharajah (Emperor) Sayajirao III, approached the royal couple without his jewellery on, and after a simple bow turned his back to them when leaving. His action was interpreted at the time as a sign of dissent to British rule. Afterwards, the royal couple ascended to the domed royal pavilion, where the King-Emperor announced the move of India's capital from Calcutta to Delhi. The annulment of the Partition of Bengal was also announced during the ceremony.\n\nThe day after, on 13 December, the royal couple made a darshan (an appearance) at the jharoka (balcony window) of Red Fort, to receive half a million or more of the common people who had come to greet them, a custom which was started by Shahjahan. Then on 14 December the King-Emperor presided over a military parade of 50,000 troops.\n\nA Delhi Herald of Arms Extraordinary and an Assistant Herald were appointed for the 1911 Durbar (Brigadier-General William Peyton and Captain the Hon. Malik Mohammed Umar Hayat Khan), but their duties were more ceremonial than heraldic.\n\nTwenty-six thousand eight hundred (26,800) Delhi Durbar Medals in silver were awarded to the men and officers of the British and Indian Armies who participated in the 1911 event. A further two hundred were struck in gold, a hundred of which were awarded to Indian princely rulers and the highest ranking government officers.\n\nA feature film of the event titled \"With Our King and Queen Through India\" (1912) – also known as \"The Durbar in Delhi\" – was filmed in the early color process Kinemacolor and released on 2 February 1912.\n\nGenerally the Durbar achieved its purpose of cementing support for British rule among the native princes, as was demonstrated by the support given during the First World War.\n\nToday Coronation Park is a jealously guarded open space, whose emptiness can come as somewhat of a shock after the dense traffic and crowded shanty towns of northern Delhi’s urban sprawl. It is mostly overgrown, neglected and locked. The Park is sometimes used for big religious festivals and municipal conventions.\nThe thrones used by King George V and Queen Mary are on display at Marble Hall Gallery and Museum at Rashtrapati Bhavan.\n\nWhile Edward VIII abdicated in December 1936 before his coronation, it was initially envisaged that his successor George VI would ultimately visit India and have his own Durbar. The Indian National Congress passed a motion weeks after his accession calling for a boycott of any such visit, and in February 1937 Communist MP Willie Gallacher decried expenditure on such festivities in a country of such poverty. The King's Speech of October 1937 included \"I am looking forward with interest and pleasure to the time when it will be possible for Me to visit My Indian Empire\"; however, the onset of World War II and the movement towards Indian independence meant this visit never happened.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7815818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7815818", "title": "Don't let the fire go out", "text": "Don't let the fire go out\n\n\"Don't let the fire go out\" is a phrase used during the 2000 election in a campaign to elect Mel Carnahan to the United States Senate after his death, and Don't Let the Fire Go Out is a book written by his widow, US Senator Jean Carnahan, on the same subject.\n\nMel Carnahan died in a plane crash weeks before the election. There was not time for the Democratic Party to replace him on the ballot. The goal of the Democratic Party was to get Mel Carnahan elected to the Senate, to give Roger Wilson, who temporarily succeed Carnahan as Missouri Governor, a chance to appoint a replacement candidate into office. Carnahan's widow, Jean Carnahan, was the favorite by many to succeed her husband. Wilson appointed Mrs. Carnahan to the Senate, where she joined the three other new women Senators from the 2000 election. Carnahan served until was voted out of office in 2002 in favor of Republican challenger Jim Talent.\n\nJean Carnahan wrote the book shortly after losing the 2002 election. The book concerns mostly the time after her husband Mel Carnahan died and she was subsequently appointed to the US Senate in his place.\n\nFired Up Missouri is a website that contains commentary centered on Missouri politics. One of the featured bloggers is Jean Carnahan. The name of the group is derived from the slogan.\n"}
{"id": "32341251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32341251", "title": "EU Anti-Corruption Report", "text": "EU Anti-Corruption Report\n\nThe EU Anti-Corruption Report was the European Commission's short-lived anti-corruption reporting mechanism. The report was planned to be published on a bi-annual basis to monitor and assess the efforts of Member States of the European Union in tackling corruption. The Anti-Corruption Report was established in June 2011, but discontinued in February 2017, having only ever published one report in 2014.\n\nThe non-binding report was activated in 2013 as a monitoring mechanism to identify “failures and vulnerabilities across the 27 EU Member States”. Specifically, its stated objectives were:\n\n(a) to periodically assess the situation in the Union regarding the fight against corruption;\n\n(b) to identify trends and best practices;\n\n(c) to make general recommendations for adjusting EU policy on preventing and fighting corruption;\n\n(d) to make tailor-made recommendations;\n\n(e) to help Member States, civil society or other stakeholders identify shortcomings, raise awareness and provide training on anti-corruption.\n\nThe monitoring mechanism envisioned engagement with existing European and international initiatives, including the European Council’s Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO); the UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC); and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. Each Member State had a designated “research correspondent” working on the ground and reporting back to an expert group. The EU alsoaimzd to draw upon the work carried out by existing agencies such as the European Anti-Fraud Office and EUROPOL.\n\nIn February 2017, the Report was discontinued. In an internal letter to the chair of the EU parliament's civil liberty committee, MEP Claude Moraes, Commission vice-president Frans Timmermans argued that the first and only Report published in 2014 had provided the basis for deepened work and consultations as part of the EU's anti-corruption framework. Subsequent reports were therefore not necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "38330715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38330715", "title": "Elcor, Minnesota", "text": "Elcor, Minnesota\n\nElcor is a ghost town, or more properly, an extinct town, in the U.S. state of Minnesota that was inhabited between 1897 and 1956. It was built on the Mesabi Iron Range near the city of Gilbert in St. Louis County. Elcor was its own unincorporated community before it was abandoned and was never a neighborhood proper of the city of Gilbert. Not rating a figure in the national census, the people of Elcor were only generally considered to be citizens of Gilbert. The area where Elcor was located was annexed by Gilbert when its existing city boundaries were expanded after 1969.\n\nIn November 1890, the seven Merritt brothers discovered ore near Mountain Iron, triggering an unparalleled iron rush to the Mesabi Range. The Elba mine was opened in 1897, and the town was platted under the direction of Don H. Bacon, president of the Minnesota Iron Company. A second nearby mine, the Corsica, was opened in 1901. The community was first called \"Elba\" after the name of the first underground mine (the name \"Elcor\" was formed later by combining the first syllables of each mine's name). The Elba and Corsica mines were both leased by Pickands Mather and Company after the formation of the United States Steel Corporation. An influx of people of many ethnicities and many nations followed, and Elcor became a microcosm of U.S. immigration, mirroring the cultural assimilation of the time. At its peak around 1920, Elcor had two churches, a post office, a general store, a primary school, a railroad station, and its own law enforcement, and housed a population of nearly 1,000.\n\nElcor was a mining location, built by the mining company to house the workers for its mines. People were allowed to own their homes, but the land on which the houses stood belonged to the mining company. After the Corsica mine closed in 1954, Pickands Mather and Company ordered the residents to vacate the property so that it could reclaim the land; by 1956, Elcor was completely abandoned. The desolate property changed hands often through acquisitions, mergers, and bankruptcies. In 1993, the Inland Steel Company began stockpiling the overburden from what is now the Minorca Mine over Elcor's former location.\n\nElcor came into existence with the opening of the Elba mine in 1897 and ended with the closing of the Corsica mine in 1954. The town was originally known as Elba, between the present-day cities of McKinley and Gilbert; the name \"Elcor\" was chosen later, by combining the first syllable of the name of each mine. As an Iron Range mining location, Elcor originally consisted of a grid of houses the mining company rented to its employees. It was one of nearly 50 mining locations between the present-day cities of Eveleth and Aurora. Some of these, like Sparta and Pineville, exist today; others, such as Franklin and Genoa, have been annexed by adjacent communities; most have disappeared entirely.\n\nDevelopment of the Elba mine was carried out by the Minnesota Iron Company, and the first shipment of ore was made in 1898. The Minnesota Iron Company also had a controlling interest in Petit and Robinson, which owned the Corsica mine, where the first ore was shipped in 1901. Don H. Bacon, who joined the Minnesota Iron Company as general manager in 1887 and eventually became its president, was an ardent traveler who named many mines after Mediterranean islands, including Malta, Maiorica, Corsica, and Elba. He had a penchant for names beginning with the letter M. The Minnesota Steamship Company was organized by, and vertically integrated with, the Minnesota Iron Company to carry ore in 1889; its steamers and barges all had names that began with M, and the ships were referred to as the M fleet. Elba's street and avenue names also all began with M:\nMohawk Street\nMalta Street\nManilla Street (this was also the main street)\nManola Street\nMariposa Avenue\nMauna Loa Avenue\nMaritana Avenue\nMinorca Avenue\n\nThe first street in Elba was Manilla Street. Company houses were constructed on both sides of it.\n\nThe Elba group of mines was between 1 and 1.5 miles west of McKinley, and was usually classed with the McKinley district mines, which included the Elba and Corsica mines, and the La Belle mine, operated by the Pitt Iron Mining Company. The Minnesota Iron Company operated the Elba mine from 1898 to 1900 under the direction of M. E. McCarthy. Immediately after the formation of the United States Steel Corporation in 1901, Pickands Mather and Company acquired the Elba and Corsica mines, assuming the mineral leases and operating both after that date. Owners James Pickands, Samuel Mather and Jay Morse had been interested in the Corsica iron-ore properties for some time, and the mines remained on the firm's shipping roll for many years. William Philip Chinn was appointed superintendent of the Elba and adjacent Corsica mine under the new management of Pickands Mather and Company, succeeding McCarthy. Chinn was then on his way up in mining circles, ultimately becoming general manager of all Pickands Mather mining properties in the Lake Superior region in 1918; he was succeeded as superintendent of the Elba and Corsica mines by L. C. David. The Oliver Iron Mining Company also owned what they designated the \"Elba No. 1 and No. 2 Reserve\" ore bodies, but these were entirely different from the Elba and Corsica mines and remained undeveloped.\n\nThe community grew at the beginning of the century. In 1902, the Corsica mine began operating in earnest and houses were quickly built. Company houses were built among the tall timbers. The community thrived on iron mining, its population nearing 1,000 after World War I, resulting in a neat and comfortable location comprising more than 100 houses. The townspeople were pioneers and largely immigrants, including Croatians, Slovenians, Finns, Italians, Germans, Scandinavians, and English, particularly from Cornwall.\n\nIn the early days, houses were made of wooden boards and surrounded by a four-board-high fence which was fronted with a boardwalk. Most of the streets were dirt roads. Winters were bitterly cold, and teams of horses dragging V-shaped wooden plows cleared the streets.\nIn the center of town was the community pump, from which the village would draw water at stipulated hours. Water was pumped from the mine twice a day through a big open pipe. Everyone had to carry water home during pumping time. There was no shutoff valve, so buckets, tubs, and barrels were used for water storage. Later, a water tower was built to hold water drawn from a deep well. St. Bernard dogs helped carry the water from the well to the homes. Running water and bathtubs came only after ditches were dug for pipes to provide water from Gilbert around 1916. Kerosene lamps provided the means of lighting until 1916, when power lines were installed.\nInitially, the only telephone was at the Elba mine office.\n\nThe community's Finns organized a temperance society and built the Finnish Temperance Hall. The community also included a band, a volunteer fire department, tennis courts, and a clubhouse for employees.\nA small Methodist church and Presbyterian church were built. The town also had a night watchman and later a full-time patrolman. Always noted as a quiet, orderly town, Elcor managed to avoid the social vagaries of adjacent communities, like Gilbert's red-light district.\n\nOne of the frame houses was used as the first school in Elcor. It was not long before a new school was constructed. Elcor was included in the middle part of the Gilbert School system, known then as Independent School District No. 18. There were five schoolhouses in the district. The McKinley-Elba school was built in 1900, halfway between McKinley and Elba, complete with its own well and windmill. It had four teachers and housed classes through the eighth grade, accommodating pupils of both communities. Students walked to school over boardwalks. There were also three primary schools in the district, one of them in Elba on Malta Street.\n\nElcor's renters were required to take in boarders. The company rented a \"cottage\" for $7.50 per month, which later included electricity. Homes were charged an additional dollar per month when water was piped in from Gilbert. Although people were later allowed to own their homes (even though the land on which the houses stood belonged to the mining company), rents were never increased.\n\nAll families had their own gardens in which they grew vegetables that lasted through the winter. Some raised cows, pigs, and chickens; others had horses for carrying firewood. There was little refrigeration, and perishables were difficult to keep. Before the Mercantile came to Elcor, residents went to the J. P. Ahlin store in McKinley, or to the Saari, Campbell and Kraker Mercantile in Gilbert. Deliveries were made daily, with orders taken for the following day. People bought on credit and paid monthly, on paydays.\n\nIn 1920, the Finnish Hall became a general store, the Elcor Mercantile, along with an official U.S. Post Office. When the post office began operation, much confusion resulted, because there was another town named Elba in southeastern Minnesota, just east of Rochester. The name \"Corsica\" was attempted with the same result. Finally, the community was named \"Elcor\", combining the first syllable of each of the two names. \"Elcor\" was emblazoned in large white letters on the water tower.\n\nMail was picked up twice daily at the railroad station, erroneously named \"Elcore\", for the Duluth and Iron Range Railroad (later the Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railroad). Later, the Elcor Mercantile diversified into the up-and-coming petroleum business, selling Conoco gasoline, kerosene, fuel oils, motor oils, grease, and even outboard motors. Concrete sidewalks were built to line the shady streets, and bright red fire hydrants were installed. Homes were insulated, and people began to purchase refrigerators. Manilla Street and Maritana Avenue were paved. Greyhound Bus Lines established a stop at the Elcor Mercantile. A baseball team was entered in the old East Mesaba League, and the Elcor Mercantile sponsored the Elcor-Conocos, an ice hockey team that became one of the best on the Iron Range. Chicago Blackhawks ice hockey goaltender Sam LoPresti was born in Elcor.\nThe Corsica and Elba mines remained the chief source of employment until 1926, when the underground Elba mine closed. It had been mined out. A few years later, the Corsica mine was converted into an open pit, and the future of the town once again seemed secure. Then the Great Depression hit. In the fall of 1929, Corsica closed and stayed closed for many years, with only a few salaried people retained. The mine remained idle until 1940, ironically receiving an honorable mention in the National Safety Competition from the U.S. Bureau of Mines in 1934. Once World War II began, the mining business boomed again.\n\nIn 1954, the Corsica pit was shut down. Workers were told that the shutdown was temporary because the demand for that particular type of ore had declined. The pit was allowed to flood, and Pickands Mather officially conceded that \"temporary\" might stretch into quite a long time, although the mine would perhaps \"eventually\" be reopened. A year later, Pickands Mather and Company, manager of the mines at Elcor and the land on which the houses rested, ordered residents to vacate the property. By edict of the mining company, the remaining families were forced out so that the company could reclaim the land.\n\nSources differ on why the order was issued, speculating that the company wanted the land for a dump site, no longer wanted to tend to the town's maintenance, or decided it was not economical to own houses anymore. No one in authority revealed what was to become of the land.\n\nResidents of the company-owned houses were given the option to buy the structures at bargain prices, provided they moved them out of town. For many, it took much of their life savings to relocate elsewhere, taking their homes in caravans along the highways and leaving behind empty foundations. Most Elcor residents purchased lots in the surrounding communities, trying to beat land speculators. In the few months after Elcor's fate became official, land prices skyrocketed. Lots that had originally been priced at $75 were sold for as much as $500. Most of the remaining families moved about two miles west to Gilbert, although other homes were replanted in nearby McKinley. The last vestiges of the old mining community were gone by 1956. Every building was torn down or removed. All that remained for some years after were old foundations, sidewalks, rusting stoves, pipes, bottles, and yard shrubbery, formerly visible from the old section of Minnesota State Highway 135 between Gilbert and Biwabik. A rusted fire hydrant adorned what was once a street corner, and a porcelain toilet bowl remained bolted to a concrete floor. An abandoned rail line for the Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railway went through what was left of the town site. Mine shafts were boarded up with old timbers. After everyone had left, the company dumped heaps of iron ore on the roads leading into Elcor, and in the process a ghost town was made out of what was once a thriving community. \n\nFor a time, the only landmark that remained at the old mining location was a smokestack near the defunct Corsica mine. The stack, built by Cornish miners in 1901, had a unique design. The Iron Range Historical Society wanted the stack, the last of its kind on the Mesabi Iron Range, to be preserved as an off-premises attraction, since it was structurally sound and historically significant, but its demolition had already been contracted as a part of the Minnesota Mineland Reclamation Act Abandoned Minelands Cleanup Program. Many people feared it might fall and injure someone; others considered it an aerial obstruction. In 1976, the stack was destroyed; it took three blasting attempts and nearly of dynamite to bring the structure down. After the demolition, responsibility for the land on which Elcor stood changed hands on several different occasions. As early as 1978, the property and its management were acquired by the Jones and Laughlin Steel Company. Property rights were then transferred to LTV Steel after the merger of Jones and Laughlin with Republic Steel in 1984. Property rights were later acquired by the Inland Steel Company in a transfer from LTV. In 1993, Inland Steel began stripping the overburden near the old town site, and the Laurentian mine was born. The mine is now owned by ArcelorMittal and has been redesignated the Laurentian pit of the Minorca mine after the acquisition of Inland Steel by Mittal in 1998. \nElcor sat atop a bed of taconite consisting of a uniform mixture of about 30 percent iron, interspersed with pockets of high-grade ore containing 90 to 95 percent iron, a part of the Biwabik iron formation. The formation is a large sheet of iron-bearing sediment deposited during the Precambrian era on the bottom of the Animikie Sea. This sea occupied the western portion of the Great Lakes area, depositing iron-bearing sediments extending under Lake Superior from the Mesabi and Vermilion Iron Ranges in northern Minnesota, to the Gogebic Iron Range in northern Wisconsin and Michigan's upper peninsula, to the Marquette Range of the upper peninsula, and west to the manganese-rich ore of the Cuyuna Iron Range in central Minnesota. Michigan's silicious steel-blue high-grade ores were quite different from the Mesabi ore, which was hydrated soft brown hematite. Geologists disagree about the geologic time period of the region and the mechanism by which the iron-bearing sediment was laid down differently on opposite sides of the lake. There is iron ore in other areas of Minnesota, but no longer in quantities that are practical to mine.\n\nGeologists divide the iron-bearing rocks of the eastern Mesabi Iron Range into several layers. In the stratigraphic column, Virginia Slate and Duluth gabbro lie above, followed by four main iron-bearing divisions named the Upper Slaty, Upper Cherty, Lower Slaty, and Lower Cherty. Below these are quartzite and granite. Beneath the shallow topsoil, the slate is from to several hundred feet thick, and the four iron-bearing layers are from thick.\n\nElcor lay at an elevation of in St. Louis County, Minnesota, north-northwest of Duluth. The nearest cities to Elcor were Gilbert, approximately to the southwest and McKinley, approximately to the east-northeast. Elcor was along the old section of Minnesota State Highway 135, almost east-southeast of U.S. Route 53 and about northeast of Minnesota State Highway 37.\n\nElcor was in the Laurentian Mixed Forest Province in the Arrowhead region of northern Minnesota. The polar air mass dominates this part of the state year-round. Precipitation ranges from about annually along the western border of the forest to about at its eastern edge. Average annual temperatures are about along the northern part of the forest, rising to at its southern extreme. Normal annual snowfall totals about .\nJuly is the warmest month, when the average high temperature is and the average low is . January is the coldest, with an average high temperature of and average low of . Elcor was approximately south-southwest of Tower, Minnesota, where the temperature reached a record low of on February 2, 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23137705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23137705", "title": "Forum of Federations", "text": "Forum of Federations\n\nThe Forum of Federations is an international organization based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. The Forum and its partners form a global network on federalism. It brings together elected officials, civil servants and experts in federalism from about 20 countries to learn from each other. The Forum's learning and technical assistance programs have covered the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Italy, Kenya, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russia, Spain, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, South Sudan, Switzerland, Tunisia and Yemen.\n\nThe Forum of Federations is an international network of federal countries, elected officials, civil servants and scholars. The Forum was established by the Government of Canada in 1999 and currently has nine other partner governments: Australia, Brazil, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan and Switzerland. Forum's headquarters are in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, and it has field offices in Kathmandu, Nepal, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and Yangon, Myanmar.\n\nThe Forum runs training and knowledge sharing programs to address governance challenges in existing and emerging federations, as well as in devolved and decentralized countries. The Forum is concerned with the contribution that multi-level government can make to democracy building and democratic consolidation.\n\n• The Forum assists in democracy promotion in fragile states or regions in post-conflict situation.\n• It provides innovative solutions to challenges posed by multi-level governance in federal, devolved, and decentralized countries.\n• It focuses on the key issues of local empowerment and federal structures.\n• It provides expertise that bridges the worlds of academic research and real-world practice.\n\nThe Forum runs learning events on federalism, gives technical advice on democratic governance and produces publications for academics and practitioners of federalism. Its activities involve working with government officials as well as academic experts, young professionals, journalists and other civil society organizations.\nThe Forum works globally – in the Americas, in Europe, in Africa, and in Asia-Pacific.\n\n\nThe Forum was founded in 1999 following the First International Conference on Federalism in Mont-Tremblant, Quebec. The event drew then world leaders such as U.S. President Bill Clinton, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien, and Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo. Four consecutive International Conferences were organized in Switzerland, Belgium, India, and Ethiopia. Over the years, the Forum has expanded the focus of its work to include not only established federal countries but also countries in post-conflict situations adopting federal forms of governance and those involved in processes of devolution and decentralization.\n\n"}
{"id": "51546533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51546533", "title": "Homelessness NSW", "text": "Homelessness NSW\n\nHomelessness NSW is the peak body organisation representing homelessness services in New South Wales, Australia. Homelessness NSW advocates on behalf of agencies and homeless people across NSW, with a particular focus on single men, single women, families and children.\n\nHomelessness NSW has argued that current voting laws in Australia do not account for the situation of homeless people. For example, women escaping domestic violence may feel unsafe attending a public polling booth, however, fear for safety is not a valid excuse for requiring a postal vote. And rough sleepers may lack valid identification.\n\nThe organisation has stated that the general lack of affordable housing in Australia has clogged up the crisis system as people could not be moved on to more permanent living arrangements.\n\n"}
{"id": "30154539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30154539", "title": "ICC Working Group on Business and Human Rights", "text": "ICC Working Group on Business and Human Rights\n\nThe ICC Working Group on Business and Human Rights is a thematic Working Group of the International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (ICC). The Working Group was established by the ICC Bureau in March 2009 and held its first meeting in Copenhagen in August 2009. The Working Group includes 2 members from each of the 4 ICC Regions (Africa, Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe). The Danish Institute for Human Rights (DIHR) currently holds the Chair of the Working Group.\n\nThe Working Group on Business and Human Rights is the first thematic working group under the ICC. The purpose of the Working Group is to encourage collaboration between National Human Rights Institutions (NHRIs) within the Human Rights and Business field and ensure that the issue of human rights and business is included in international frameworks.\n\nThe officers of the WG are a Chair and Vice Chair. The order of succession of the offices of Chair and Vice Chair is distributed between the four ICC regions in the following order: Europe, Americas, Asia Pacific, and Africa. Each ICC Regional Chair determines the method of selection of members representing the four ICC regions. Membership of the Working Group for regional members lasts for a period of two years. If a membership of the Working Group is terminated, the relevant Regional Chair determines a replacement. \n\nThe working languages of the Working Group will be those of the ICC: English, French and Spanish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42145518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42145518", "title": "Institute of World Affairs", "text": "Institute of World Affairs\n\nThe Institute of World Affairs (IWA) was founded 1924 in Geneva, Switzerland by Maude Miner Hadden and Alexander Mectier Hadden. The IWA started at the Student’s International Union (SIU) in Geneva. The SIU had been established at the League of Nations during its 5th assembly, and the creation of the SIU was at the bequest of students at the nearby university of Geneva and an idea by Gilbert Murray. The IWA, in time, would grow to not only have the office in Geneva, but also have offices in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Salisbury, Connecticut. In 1941, due to the outbreak of World War II, the IWA was moved to the United States because of security concerns.\n\nThe website for the IWA states as its mission statement that “IWA is a not-for-profit, non-governmental organization working across cultural and political boundaries to advance creative approaches to conflict analysis, conflict management, and post-conflict peace-building.”\n\nMaude and Alexander, met when the two of them founded the institution. Alexander was son to a well off family, whose father did not wish for him to go to college. Alexander did end up going to college, funded his education at Columbia University by “saving his allowance and depriving himself of luxuries.” Alexander had met Maude through his social work.\n\nMaude and Alexander had met two university students who were also interested in world affairs. The students were very interested in world peace and security, but they had no structure to understand the very issues they were so interested in. At this point the Hadden’s ended their honeymoon, and they returned to New York and began working on creating an International organization for students. The organization would become the IWA, and it would set out to give students experience and understanding of world politics. The IWA would end up becoming part of the Hadden’s legacy after their deaths in the early and mid-1900’s, and in 1994 the IWA merged, in-part, with the Institute of Current World Affairs (ICWA). In-line with the mission of the IWA the ICWA site, “fostering understanding of the world by immersing promising individuals in the study of a country, region, or globally important issue and by sharing the benefits of their knowledge with society”, as their mission statement.\n\nThe school of thought of both the IWA and ICWA are mirrored. Although the IWA was geared more towards conflict resolution, conflict management, and post-conflict peacebuilding and the ICWA is more non-conflict oriented –as they do not send fellows to war zones or places where security is a concern--, both are designed to give real world knowledge to the students. The IWA seemed to be very conflict resolution and analysis oriented, whereas the ICWA seemed to be much more set-up for non-conflict everyday issues ranging from water sanitation to environmental issues.\n\nThe governmental agencies which fund them in part. The list includes U.S. Joint Forces Command, Canadian Department of National Defence, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Federal Department of Foreign Affairs - Government of Switzerland, U.S. Agency for International Development, National Endowment for Democracy, and the U.S. Institute of Peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "3874276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3874276", "title": "Inter-collegiate policy debate", "text": "Inter-collegiate policy debate\n\nInter-collegiate policy debate is a form of speech competition involving two teams of two debaters from different colleges or universities based on a resolution phrased as something the United States federal government \"should\" do. Policy debate also exists as a high school activity, with a very similar format, but different leagues, tournaments, speech times, resolutions, and styles.\n\nEach round is divided into four 9-minute constructive speeches, each followed by a 3-minute cross-examination period, then four 6-minute rebuttal speeches. The two sides alternate, with the affirmative getting the first and last speeches of the round and the negative getting the last constructive and the first rebuttal in the middle. Most affirmative teams present a specific policy option, or plan, as a normative defence of the resolution. However, some teams partake in alternative forms of debate, including performance, personal advocacies, or otherwise critical approaches. Negatives have several options for response, including solvency arguments against the effectiveness of the plan, external policy disadvantages, opportunity-cost-based counterplans, arguments stemming from debate theory such as the failure of the affirmative to advocate the resolution, and critical approaches. Argument is highly evidence-based, with numerous lengthy excerpts from books and articles read by each side. Speeches are often very fast, so much so as to be incomprehensible to people who are not used to the style.\n\nInter-collegiate policy debate has been historically overseen by the National Debate Tournament (NDT), the Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA), and, especially in the mid-Atlantic region, the American Debate Association (ADA). Since 1996-97 these organizations have shared a common topic, and have become largely unified. They nonetheless continue to host their own national championships.\n\nOther organizations that sponsor policy debate, albeit with different rules, are the National Educational Debate Association (NEDA) and\nthe National Forensics Association's Lincoln Douglas (NFA-LD) debate (a policy variant of the high school LD format, which is less commonly practiced in colleges and universities).\n\nInter-collegiate and high school policy debate are largely similar. Some of the differences:\n\n\nExperienced college debaters often act as paid coaches, judges, and summer-camp counselors for high school policy debaters.\n"}
{"id": "28686400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28686400", "title": "Kill Pill", "text": "Kill Pill\n\nIn computing, kill pill is a term given to mechanisms and technologies designed to render systems useless either by user command, or under a predefined set of circumstances. Kill pill technology is most commonly used to disable lost or stolen devices for security purposes, but can also be used for the enforcement of rules and contractual obligations.\n\nKill pill technology is used prominently in smartphones, especially in the disablement of lost or stolen devices. A notable example is Find My iPhone, a service that allows the user to password protect or wipe their iDevice(s) remotely, aiding in the protection of private data. Similar applications exist for other smartphone operating systems, including Android, BlackBerry, and Windows Phone.\n\nKill pill technology has been notably used as an anti-piracy measure. Windows Vista was released with the ability to severely limit its own functionality if it was determined that the copy was obtained through piracy. The feature was later dropped after complaints that false positives caused genuine copies of Vista to act as though they were pirated.\n\nThe concept of a kill pill is also applied to the remote removal by a server of malicious files or applications from a client's system. Such technology is a standard component of most handheld computing devices, mainly due to their generally more limited operating systems and means of obtaining applications. Such functionality is also reportedly available to applications downloaded from the Windows Store on Windows 8 operating systems.\n\nKill pill technology is used frequently in vehicles for a variety of reasons. Remote vehicle disablement can be used to prevent a vehicle from starting, to prevent it from moving, and to prevent the vehicle's continued operation. Non-remotely, vehicles can require driver recognition before starting or moving, such as asking for a password or some form of biometrics from the driver.\n\nKill pill technology is often used by governments to prevent drunk driving by repeat offenders as a punishment and deterrent. The installation of an ignition interlock devices is a sentencing alternative for drunk drivers in almost all 50 of the United States. Such a device requires the driver to blow into a breathalyzer before starting the vehicle. If the driver is found to be over the legal blood alcohol content limit, the vehicle will not start\n\nKill pill technology can also be implemented to contextually disable certain aspects of a smartphone's functionality. A patent obtained by Apple claims the ability to disable the antenna, screen, or camera of a smartphone in settings like theaters, schools, and areas of high security sensitivity.\n\nKill pill technology has been criticized for allowing for the suppression of personal liberties. While a kill pill can be utilized in a school setting to prevent academic dishonesty, it has been suggested that governments may also use it to suppress their people, for example, by disabling a phone's camera or antenna in the area of a protest.\n\nThe ability to remotely remove files and applications from a user's device has also come under fire. Apple's apparent ability to blacklist applications, rendering them unusable on any iDevice, has raised concerns about the user's rights when downloading from the App Store. As of July 2014, no applications appear on Apple's blacklist website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51816995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51816995", "title": "Legal recognition of intersex people", "text": "Legal recognition of intersex people\n\nIntersex people are born with sex characteristics, such as chromosomes, gonads, or genitals that, according to the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, \"do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies\".\n\nAccording to the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, few countries have provided for the legal recognition of intersex people. The Asia Pacific Forum states that the legal recognition of intersex people is firstly about access to the same rights as other men and women, when assigned male or female; secondly it is about access to administrative corrections to legal documents when an original sex assignment is not appropriate; and thirdly it is not about the creation of a third sex or gender classification for intersex people as a population but it is, instead, about self determination.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Forum, the Council of Europe, and the Malta declaration of the Third International Intersex Forum have called for non-binary gender classifications to be available on a voluntary, opt-in basis. The Council of Europe has called for greater consideration of the implications of new sex classifications on intersex people, while the Third International Intersex Forum called for the long term removal of sex or gender from official identification documents.\n\nIn some countries, legal recognition may be limited, access to any form of birth certificate may be difficult, while some other countries recognise that intersex people may have non-binary gender identities. Sociological research in Australia, a country with a non-binary gender marker, has shown that 19% of people born with atypical sex characteristics may prefer that option.\n\nIn European societies, Roman law, post-classical Canon law, and later Common law, referred to a person's sex as male, female or hermaphrodite, with legal rights as male or female depending on the characteristics that appeared most dominant. Under Roman law, a hermaphrodite had to be classed as either male or female. The 12th-century \"Decretum Gratiani\" states that \"Whether an hermaphrodite may witness a testament, depends on which sex prevails\". The foundation of common law, the 16th Century \"Institutes of the Lawes of England\" described how a hermaphrodite could inherit \"either as male or female, according to that kind of sexe which doth prevaile.\" Single cases have been described in Canon law and other legal cases over the centuries.\n\nIntersex scholar Morgan Holmes states that much early anthropological material on non-European cultures described gender systems with more than two categories as \"primitive\", but also that subsequent analysis of third sexes and genders is simplistic or romanticized:\nIn recent years, civil society organization and human rights institutions have raised issues relating to legal recognition.\n\nResearch indicates a growing consensus that diverse intersex bodies are normal—if relatively rare—forms of human biology, and human rights institutions are placing increasing scrutiny on medical practices and issues of discrimination against intersex people. A 2013 first international pilot study. Human Rights between the Sexes, by Dan Christian Ghattas, found that intersex people are discriminated against worldwide: \"Intersex individuals are considered individuals with a «disorder» in all areas in which Western medicine prevails. They are more or less obviously treated as sick or «abnormal», depending on the respective society.\"\n\nIn 2015, an Issue Paper on \"Human rights and intersex people\" by the Council of Europe highlighted several areas of concern, including legal recognition:\n\n\nAccording to the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, few countries have provided for the legal recognition of intersex people. The Asia Pacific Forum states that the legal recognition of intersex people is firstly about access to the same rights as other men and women, when assigned male or female; secondly it is about access to administrative corrections to legal documents when an original sex assignment is not appropriate; and thirdly, while opt in schemes may help some individuals, legal recognition is not about the creation of a third sex or gender classification for intersex people as a population.\n\nLike all individuals, some intersex individuals may be raised as a particular sex (male or female) but then identify with another later in life, while most do not. A 2012 clinical review suggests that between 8.5-20% of persons with intersex conditions may experience gender dysphoria, distress or discomfort as a result of the sex and gender they were assigned at birth.\n\nLike non-intersex people, some intersex individuals may not identify themselves as either exclusively female or exclusively male. Sociological research in Australia, a country with a third 'X' sex classification, shows that 19% of people born with atypical sex characteristics selected an \"X\" or \"other\" option, while 52% are women, 23% men, and 6% unsure. At birth, 52% of persons in the study were assigned female, and 41% were assigned male.\n\nResearch has also shown gender identities of intersex individuals to be independent of sexual orientation.\n\nIntersex advocate Morgan Carpenter states that intersex should not be reduced to a gender identity issue; \"intersex as identity is polymorphic, but asserts the dignity of stigmatised embodiment.\" Dan Christian Ghattas states that \"People who do not have an intersex body and want to use ‘intersex’ to describe their gender identity, should be aware of the fact that, unfortunately, they are actually making intersex human rights violations less visible.\"\n\nCurrently, depending on the jurisdiction, access to any birth certificate may be an issue, including a birth certificate with a sex marker, and in the absence of surgical requirements.\n\nIn 2014 a Kenyan court ordered its government to issue a birth certificate to a five-year-old child born with ambiguous genitalia, necessary to allow the child to attend school and obtain a national identity document. Many intersex persons in Uganda are understood to be stateless due to historical difficulties in obtaining identification documents, despite a birth registration law that permits intersex minors to change assignment.\n\nA 2017 submission by Justicia Intersex and Zwischengeschlecht to the United Nations Committee Against Torture identified two Argentinian cases of children denied birth certificates without parental consent to irreversible medical interventions.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions states that:\nAccessing the same rights as other men and women supposes the elimination of stigma and discrimination on grounds of sex characteristics, and rights to physical integrity and freedom from torture and ill-treatment.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Forum also highlights access to sport and concerns with sex verification policies. Sex testing began at the 1966 European Athletics Championships in response to suspicion that several of the best women athletes from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe were actually men. At the Olympics, testing was introduced in 1968. Initially, sex verification took the form of physical examinations. It subsequently evolved into chromosome testing, and later testosterone testing. Reports have shown how elite women athletes with intersex conditions have been humiliated, excluded, and suffered human rights violations as a result of sex verification testing. Such cases have included female genital mutilation and sterilization.\n\nAccess to a birth certificate with a correct sex marker may be an issue for intersex people who do not identify with their sex assigned at birth.\n\nSome countries have the gender self-determination legal model such as Argentina, Belgium, Malta, Denmark, Greece, France, Portugal, Norway, Chile, Uruguay, Luxembourg, Colombia, Ecuador and Ireland permit changes to sex classifications via simple administrative methods. Some countries, such as Vietnam, Thailand, Japan, some jurisdictions in both Australia and the United States and many European countries only permit changes to sex classifications following sexual reassignment surgery. Other countries do not permit intersex people to change sex assignment at all or, such as the United Kingdom, only by declaring that they are transgender and obtaining a diagnosis of gender dysphoria.\n\nThe passports and identification documents of Australia, New Zealand and some other nationalities have adopted \"X\" as a valid third category besides \"M\" (male) and \"F\" (female), at least since 2003. US states have recognised third options since at least 2012, in the case of an 'hermaphrodite' birth certificate sex marker in Ohio. In 2013, Germany became the first European nation to register babies with characteristics of both sexes as \"indeterminate gender\" on birth certificates, amidst opposition and skepticism from intersex organisations who point out that the law mandates exclusion from male or female categories.\n\nUS organization Intersex Campaign for Equality is pursuing third sex classifications for non-binary intersex people, including through a federal court case. On November 22, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of Colorado ruled in favor of Navy veteran Dana Zzyym, associate director of Intersex Campaign for Equality, stating that the State Department violated federal law in denying Zzyym a passport because they did not select male or female as their gender. On September 26, 2016, intersex California resident Sara Kelly Keenan became the second person in the United States to legally change her gender to non-binary. In December 2016, Keenan received a birth certificate with an 'Intersex' sex marker from New York City. Press coverage also disclosed that Ohio issued a birth certificate with a sex marker of 'hermaphrodite' in 2012.\n\nThe intersex movement supports voluntary and opt-in non-binary and multiple sex classifications, described in the statement of the Third International Intersex Forum. The Open Society Foundations published a report, \"License to Be Yourself\" in May 2014, documenting \"some of the world's most progressive and rights-based laws and policies\" enabling changes to gender markers on official documents. The report comments on the recognition of third classifications, stating:\nThe Council of Europe acknowledged concerns about recognition of third and blank classifications in a 2015 Issue Paper, stating that these may lead to \"forced outings\" and \"lead to an increase in pressure on parents of intersex children to decide in favour of one sex.\" The Issue Paper argues that \"further reflection on non-binary legal identification is necessary\":\n\nThe Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions recognised the right of individuals to non-binary or third sex classifications, but stated that, \"creating a third, separate category for the registration of people born with an intersex trait ... would risk segregating and potentially stigmatising intersex people. It would also remove their right to determine their own sex or gender.\"\n\nIn March 2017, an Australian and Aotearoa/New Zealand community statement called for an end to legal classification of sex, stating that legal third classifications, like binary classifications, were based on structural violence and failed to respect diversity and a \"right to self-determination\".\n\nThe statement of the Third International Intersex Forum calls for an end to official classification by sex or gender on identification documents. Dan Christian Ghattas of OII Europe states that, \"providing the options for all parents to leave the sex/ gender entry open for their child would promote the equality of all sexes and genders\". Laura Inter of Mexican intersex organization Brújula Intersexual, imagines a society where sex or gender classifications are removed from birth certificates and other official identification documents, and Morgan Carpenter of OII Australia states that, \"the removal of sex and gender, like race and religion, from official documentation\" is \"a more universal, long-term policy goal\".\n\nIn March 2017, an Australian and Aotearoa/New Zealand community statement called for an end to legal classification of sex, stating that legal third classifications, like binary classifications, were based on structural violence and failed to respect diversity and a \"right to self-determination\". It also called for the criminalization of deferrable intersex medical interventions.\n\nDistinctions between sex and gender are lost in many official or legal documents, and also online. In 2014, Facebook introduced dozens of options for users to specify their gender, including the option of intersex.\n\nThe Malta declaration by the Third International Intersex Forum, in 2013, called for infants and children to be assigned male or female, on the understanding that later identification may differ:\n\n"}
{"id": "164231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164231", "title": "Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)", "text": "Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)\n\nThe , frequently abbreviated to LDP or , is a conservative political party in Japan.\n\nThe LDP has near continuously been in power since its foundation in 1955—a period called the 1955 System—with the exception of a period between 1993 and 1994, and again from 2009 to 2012. In the 2012 election it regained control of government. It holds 291 seats in the lower house and 121 seats in the upper house, with the Komeito the governing coalition has the supermajority in both houses. Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and many present and former LDP ministers are also known members of Nippon Kaigi, a monarchist and negationist organization.\n\nThe LDP is not to be confused with the now-defunct , which merged with the to become the , the main opposition party until 2017.\n\nThe LDP was formed in 1955 as a merger between two of Japan's political parties, the and the , both right-wing conservative parties, as a united front against the then popular , now . The party won the following elections, and Japan's first conservative government with a majority was formed by 1955. It would hold majority government until 1993.\n\nThe LDP began with reforming Japan's international relations, ranging from entry into the United Nations, to establishing diplomatic ties with the Soviet Union. Its leaders in the 1950s also made the LDP the main government party, and in all the elections of the 1950s, the LDP won the majority vote, with the only other opposition coming from the left-wing politics, made up of the Japan Socialist Party and the Japanese Communist Party.\n\nFrom the 1950s through the 1970s, the United States Central Intelligence Agency spent millions of dollars attempting to influence elections in Japan to favor the LDP against more leftist parties such as the Socialists and the Communists, although this was not revealed until the mid-1990s when it was exposed by \"The New York Times\".\n\nFor the majority of the 1960s, the LDP (and Japan) were led by Eisaku Satō, beginning with the hosting of the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, and ending in 1972 with Japanese neutrality in the Vietnam War and with the beginning of the Japanese asset price bubble. By the end of the 1970s, the LDP went into its decline, where even though it held the reins of government many scandals plagued the party, while the opposition (now joined with the Komeito (Former)) gained momentum.\n\nIn 1976, in the wake of the Lockheed bribery scandals, a handful of younger LDP Diet members broke away and established their own party, the New Liberal Club (Shin Jiyu Kurabu). A decade later, however, it was reabsorbed by the LDP.\n\nBy the late 1970s, the Japan Socialist Party, the Japanese Communist Party, and the Komeito along with the international community used major pressure to have Japan switch diplomatic ties from the Republic of China to the People's Republic of China. During the 1980s, the LDP was responsible for Japan's unprecedented economic growth, and the successful economy.\nBy the early 1990s, the LDP's nearly four decades in power allowed it to establish a highly stable process of policy formation. This process would not have been possible if other parties had secured parliamentary majorities. LDP strength was based on an enduring, although not unchallenged, coalition of big business, small business, agriculture, professional groups, and other interests. Elite bureaucrats collaborated closely with the party and interest groups in drafting and implementing policy. In a sense, the party's success was a result not of its internal strength but of its weakness. It lacked a strong, nationwide organization or consistent ideology with which to attract voters. Its leaders were rarely decisive, charismatic, or popular. But it functioned efficiently as a locus for matching interest group money and votes with bureaucratic power and expertise. This arrangement resulted in corruption, but the party could claim credit for helping to create economic growth and a stable, middle-class Japan.\n\nBut by 1993, the end of the miracle economy and other reasons (e.g. Recruit scandal) led to the LDP losing its majority in that year's general election.\n\nSeven opposition parties—including several formed by LDP dissidents—formed a government headed by LDP dissident Morihiro Hosokawa of the Japan New Party. However, the LDP was still far and away the largest party in the House of Representatives, with well over 200 seats; no other party crossed the 80-seat mark.\n\nIn 1994, the Socialist Party and New Party Sakigake left the ruling coalition, joining the LDP in the opposition. The remaining members of the coalition tried to stay in power as a makeshift minority government, but this failed when the LDP and the Socialists, bitter rivals for 40 years, formed a majority coalition. The new government was dominated by the LDP, but it allowed a Socialist to occupy the Prime Minister's chair until 1996, when the LDP's Ryutaro Hashimoto took over.\n\nIn the 1996 election, the LDP made some gains, but was still 12 seats short of a majority. However, no other party could possibly form a government, and Hashimoto formed a solidly LDP minority government. Through a series of floor-crossings, the LDP regained its majority within a year.\n\nThe party was practically unopposed until 1998, when the opposition Democratic Party of Japan was formed. This marked the beginning of the opposing parties' gains in momentum, especially in the 2003 and 2004 Parliamentary Elections, that wouldn't slow for another 12 years.\n\nIn the dramatically paced 2003 House of Representatives elections, the LDP won 237 seats, while the DPJ won 177 seats. In the 2004 House of Councillors elections, in the seats up for grabs, the LDP won 49 seats and the DPJ 50, though in all seats (including those uncontested) the LDP still had a total of 114. Because of this electoral loss, former Secretary General Shinzō Abe turned in his resignation, but Party President Koizumi merely demoted him in rank, and he was replaced by Tsutomu Takebe.\n\nOn 10 November 2003, the New Conservative Party (\"Hoshu Shintō\") was absorbed into the LDP, a move which was largely because of the New Conservative Party's poor showing in the 2003 general election. The LDP formed a coalition with the conservative Buddhist New Komeito.\n\nAfter a victory in the Japan general election, 2005, the LDP held an absolute majority in the Japanese House of Representatives and formed a coalition government with the New Komeito Party. Abe succeeded then-Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi as the president of the party on 20 September 2006. The party suffered a major defeat in the election of 2007, however, and lost its majority in the upper house for the first time in its history.\n\nThe LDP remained the largest party in both houses of the Diet, until 29 July 2007, when the LDP lost its majority in the upper house.\n\nIn a party leadership election held on 23 September 2007, the LDP elected Yasuo Fukuda as its president. Fukuda defeated Tarō Asō for the post, receiving 330 votes against 197 votes for Aso. However Fukuda resigned suddenly in September 2008, and Asō became Prime Minister after winning the presidency of the LDP in a 5-way election.\n\nIn the 2009 general election, the LDP was roundly defeated, winning only 118 seats—easily the worst defeat of a sitting government in modern Japanese history, and also the first real transfer of political power in the post-war era. Accepting responsibility for this severe defeat, Aso announced his resignation as LDP president on election night. Sadakazu Tanigaki was elected leader of the party on 28 September 2009, after a three-way race, becoming only the second LDP leader who was not simultaneously prime minister.\n\nThe party's support continued to decline, with prime ministers changing rapidly, and in the 2009 House of Representatives elections the LDP lost its majority, winning only 118 seats, marking the only time they would be out of the majority other than a brief period in 1993. Since that time, numerous party members have left to join other parties or form new ones, including , the , and the . The party had some success in the 2010 House of Councilors election, netting 13 additional seats and denying the DPJ a majority. The LDP returned to power with its ally New Komeito after winning a clear majority in the lower house general election on 16 December 2012 after just over three years in opposition. Shinzō Abe became Prime Minister for the second time.\n\nIn July 2015, the party pushed for expanded military powers to fight in foreign conflict through Shinzō Abe and the support of Komeito party.\n\nThe LDP has not espoused a well-defined, unified ideology or political philosophy, due to its long-term government. Its members hold a variety of positions that could be broadly defined as being to the right of the opposition parties. The LDP traditionally identified itself with a number of general goals: rapid, export-based economic growth; close cooperation with the United States in foreign and defense policies; and several newer issues, such as administrative reform. Administrative reform encompassed several themes: simplification and streamlining of government bureaucracy; privatization of state-owned enterprises; and adoption of measures, including tax reform, in preparation for the expected strain on the economy posed by an aging society. Other priorities in the early 1990s included the promotion of a more active and positive role for Japan in the rapidly developing Asia-Pacific region, the internationalization of Japan's economy by the liberalization and promotion of domestic demand (expected to lead to the creation of a high-technology information society) and the promotion of scientific research. A business-inspired commitment to free enterprise was tempered by the insistence of important small business and agricultural constituencies on some form of protectionism and subsidies. In addition, the LDP opposes the legalization of same-sex marriage.\n\nAt the apex of the LDP's formal organization is the , who can serve three three-year terms (The presidential term was increased from two years to three years in 2002, and from two to three terms in 2017). When the party has a parliamentary majority, the party president is the prime minister. The choice of party president is formally that of a party convention composed of Diet members and local LDP figures, but in most cases, they merely approved the joint decision of the most powerful party leaders. To make the system more democratic, Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda introduced a \"primary\" system in 1978, which opened the balloting to some 1.5 million LDP members. The process was so costly and acrimonious, however, that it was subsequently abandoned in favor of the old \"smoke-filled room\" method — so-called in allusion to the notion of closed discussions held in small rooms filled with tobacco smoke.\n\nAfter the party president, the most important LDP officials are the Secretary-General (\"kanjicho\"), and the chairmen of the LDP Executive Council (\"somukaicho\") and of the Policy Affairs Research Council or \"PARC\" (政務調査会 \"seimu chōsakai\").\n\nThe LDP is the most \"traditionally Japanese\" of the political parties because it relies on a complex network of patron-client (\"oyabun-kobun\") relationships on both national and local levels. Nationally, a system of factions in both the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors ties individual Diet members to powerful party leaders. Locally, Diet members have to maintain \"koenkai\" (local support groups) to keep in touch with public opinion and gain votes and financial backing. The importance and pervasiveness of personal ties between Diet members and faction leaders and between citizens and Diet members gives the party a pragmatic \"you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours\" character. Its success depends less on generalized mass appeal than on the so-called \"sanban\" (three \"ban\"): \"jiban\" (a strong, well-organized constituency), \"kaban\" (a briefcase full of money), and \"kanban\" (prestigious appointment, particularly on the cabinet level).\n\nThe LDP had over five million party members in 1990. By December 2017 membership had dropped to approximately one million members.\n\nElection statistics show that, while the LDP had been able to secure a majority in the twelve House of Representatives elections from May 1958 to February 1990, with only three exceptions (December 1976, October 1979, and December 1983), its share of the popular vote had declined from a high of 57.8 percent in May 1958 to a low of 41.8 percent in December 1976, when voters expressed their disgust with the party's involvement in the Lockheed scandal. The LDP vote rose again between 1979 and 1990. Although the LDP won an unprecedented 300 seats in the July 1986 balloting, its share of the popular vote remained just under 50 percent. The figure was 46.2 percent in February 1990. Following the three occasions when the LDP found itself a handful of seats shy of a majority, it was obliged to form alliances with conservative independents and the breakaway New Liberal Club. In a cabinet appointment after the October 1983 balloting, a non-LDP minister, a member of the New Liberal Club, was appointed for the first time. On 18 July 1993, lower house elections, the LDP fell so far short of a majority that it was unable to form a government.\n\nIn the upper house, the July 1989 election represented the first time that the LDP was forced into a minority position. In previous elections, it had either secured a majority on its own or recruited non-LDP conservatives to make up the difference of a few seats.\n\nThe political crisis of 1988–89 was testimony to both the party's strength and its weakness. In the wake of a succession of issues—the pushing of a highly unpopular consumer tax through the Diet in late 1988, the Recruit insider trading scandal, which tainted virtually all top LDP leaders and forced the resignation of Prime Minister Takeshita Noboru in April (a successor did not appear until June), the resignation in July of his successor, Uno Sōsuke, because of a sex scandal, and the poor showing in the upper house election—the media provided the Japanese with a detailed and embarrassing dissection of the political system. By March 1989, popular support for the Takeshita cabinet as expressed in public opinion polls had fallen to 9 percent. Uno's scandal, covered in magazine interviews of a \"kiss and tell\" geisha, aroused the fury of female voters.\n\nUno's successor, the eloquent if obscure Kaifu Toshiki, was successful in repairing the party's battered image. By January 1990, talk of the waning of conservative power and a possible socialist government had given way to the realization that, like the Lockheed affair of the mid-1970s, the Recruit scandal did not signal a significant change in who ruled Japan. The February 1990 general election gave the LDP, including affiliated independents, a comfortable, if not spectacular, majority: 275 of 512 total representatives.\n\nIn October 1991, Prime Minister Kaifu Toshiki failed to attain passage of a political reform bill and was rejected by the LDP, despite his popularity with the electorate. He was replaced as prime minister by Miyazawa Kiichi, a long-time LDP stalwart. Defections from the LDP began in the spring of 1992, when Hosokawa Morihiro left the LDP to form the Japan New Party. Later, in the summer of 1993, when the Miyazawa government also failed to pass political reform legislation, thirty-nine LDP members joined the opposition in a no-confidence vote. In the ensuing lower house election, more than fifty LDP members formed the Shinseitō and the Sakigake parties, denying the LDP the majority needed to form a government.\n\nWith the exception of Yohei Kono and Sadakazu Tanigaki, every has also served as Prime Minister of Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57443435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57443435", "title": "Lidiya Yankovskaya", "text": "Lidiya Yankovskaya\n\nLidiya Yankovskaya (Russian: Лидия Янковская; Russian pronunciation: ]; born 26 March 1986) is a Russian-American opera and symphonic conductor and the Music Director of Chicago Opera Theater. She is currently the only female music director of a major American opera company.\n\nBorn in Saint Petersburg, Yankovskaya studied ballet between the ages of three- and five-years-old. She studied music from the age of five, playing piano and singing in the Saint Petersburg Children’s Choir of Radio and Television. She attended performances with her mother regularly, citing a production of Prokofiev's \"The Love for Three Oranges\" at the Mariinsky Theater as one of her first experiences with opera.\n\nDue to the anti-Semitic climate in Russia, Yankovskaya immigrated to the United States with her mother at nine-years-old. They settled in upstate New York, where Yankovskaya attended Hebrew day school.\n\nYankovskaya's mother prioritized her musical development, enrolling her daughter at Guilderland High School in Albany, NY. Yankovskaya also joined the selective private teaching studio of piano duo Vladimir Pleshakov and Elena Winther, and began studying the violin. At 17, she had become concertmaster of Guilderland's orchestra and won the school's concerto competition for a performance of Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 12 (K. 414). During rehearsals, conductor Jeff Herchenroder suggested that Yankovskaya try leading from the piano. She later made her conducting debut at Herchenroder's request, leading the orchestra for the third movement of Dvořák's Symphony No.7 in D minor.\n\nAfter graduation, Yankovskaya attended Vassar College, where she studied piano, voice, and conducting. She switched her focus from piano performance to conducting during her junior year. Yankovskaya led her own ensemble of approximately 55 instrumentalists and 30 singers in regular performances of contemporary works. Yankovskaya holds a master's degree in conducting from Boston University.\nYankovskaya joined the Boston-based Juventas New Music Ensemble as an associate conductor and served as their music director between 2010-2017. Also taking on the role of artistic director in 2014, she sought to present collaborative, interdisciplinary works ranging from opera and ballet to puppetry, aerial dance, and robotic instruments.\n\nAlso in the Greater Boston area, she has served as the music director of Commonwealth Lyric Theater, music director of Lowell House Opera at Harvard University (2011-2015), and artistic director of the Boston New Music Festival. Yankovskaya has conducted the Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras Opera Chorus and prepared the Tanglewood Festival Chorus for programs with the Boston Symphony.\n\nAs a guest conductor, Yankovskaya has performed with the Washington National Opera, the Spoleto Festival USA, Symphony New Hampshire, Wolf Trap Opera, Stamford Symphony Orchestra, Opera Saratoga, Flagstaff Symphony Orchestra, the Brookline Symphony, Beth Morrison Projects, American Lyric Theater, and the Center for Contemporary Opera in New York City.\n\nIn 2015, Yankovskaya was one of six conductors selected to join the Dallas Opera's inaugural Hart Institute for Women Conductors and received honorable mention from Marin Alsop's Taki Concordia Conducting Fellowship.\n\nYankovskaya was appointed the music director of Chicago Opera Theater in June 2017 and began regular conducting duties with the 2018-19 season. She is the first female music director at Chicago Opera Theater.\n\nDuring the Syrian refugee crisis, Yankovskaya started a grassroots performance ensemble that would become known as the Refugee Orchestra Project. The first performance by the ensemble took place on May 10, 2016 in Cambridge, MA. Growing interest on social media led to concerts in Boston, New York City, and Washington, DC. The orchestra joined the National Sawdust artists-in-residence for the 2017-18 season.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44598751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44598751", "title": "List of countries by past military expenditure", "text": "List of countries by past military expenditure\n\nThis is a list of countries by past military expenditure, starting 1988.\n\nFigures for the tables below are provided by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) database. They are presented in millions of United States dollars in current prices, converted at the exchange rate for the given year. If there is no data for a particular year, a cell if left blank. Although the database includes statistics for over 150 countries, per SIPRI's Terms and Condition permission is needed to directly reproduce more than 10% of the database.\n\n"}
{"id": "44827732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44827732", "title": "List of films produced in the Spanish Revolution", "text": "List of films produced in the Spanish Revolution\n\nThis is a list of films produced in the Spanish Revolution. In the Spanish Revolution, the film industry was collectivized by the CNT and FAI. Between July 1936 and June 1937, 84 films were produced by SIE Films, FRIEP and Spartacus Films. Only about 40 films have been preserved and not all them are complete.\n\nThere are some works that explore this period of Spanish cinema:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36704734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36704734", "title": "List of libraries damaged during World War II", "text": "List of libraries damaged during World War II\n\nThis is a list of libraries damaged during World War II.\n\nWhen Hitler’s Germany started the Anschluss with Austria in 1938, one of the first casualties was the looting of the public and private libraries of Vienna.\n\n\nTwo hundred libraries in Belarus suffered damage during the war. T. Roschina calculated that 83 per cent of the libraries' collection were plundered, stolen or destroyed. 600,000 of those volumes were subsequently found in Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Poland after the war, but a million other volumes, including rare and old printed volumes, have not been returned.\n\nBelorussian libraries were plundered of 95% of their holding.\n\n\nThe “Smolensk holdings” of five hundred files of the Communist Party Archives ended up in the National Archives in Washington, DC, along with manuscripts of the Belarusian poet Vassily Koval. The papers of the Polish folklorist and ethnographer, Professor Józef Obrebski, ended up in the archives of the University of Massachusetts. The Khreptovitch Library was temporarily removed to Kyiv (Kiev) during the war. A Dutch Trophy collection was given to the Soviet Union and returned to the Netherlands. Part of the library collection of Petlura was returned to the Ukraine.\n\n\nThe Nazis assumed control over libraries and information. Concerning the confiscation of library books, one military order stated: “The Army groups and their designees may demand information from any person concerning economic data, supplies, consumption, storage, purchase and sale of goods, products and wares of every kind. They may demand books, papers, receipts, and samples be shown, and that anyone required to furnish information appear in person… Information shall be given free of charge.”\n\n\n\nSome of the captured library loot was returned to Belgium by the US Government after the war. A photograph in the Offenbach Archival Depot records says in its caption, “1st cases of Belgium items being prepared for shipment. Inspected by Belgium Restitution officer, Lt. Raymond and Capt. Seymour Pomrenze.”\n\n“According to the statistics of 1936 compiled by the Chinese Libraries Association, on the eve of the Japanese invasion there were 4,747 libraries in all throughout China, including independent libraries, school libraries, institutional libraries and county and municipal libraries. But by 1943, however, following the Japanese invasion and occupation, the number of libraries declined to 940. Four-fifths of the libraries were either destroyed or looted. Before the war, there were approximately 25 million volumes housed in the various libraries, but after the war the number was reduced to 15 million volumes. 10 million volumes, or forty percent of the books, were lost in the intervening years… Although some 158,873 volumes have been returned to China in the intervening years, it constitutes 6 percent of the total number taken, i.e., 2,742,108 volumes. The major portion has not been returned.”\n\nMany of the rare books looted by the Japanese from Chinese libraries were sold to collectors, according to Frederic D. Schultheis.\n\n\nIn 1935, there were 17,148 public, school and university libraries in Czechoslovakia, having a book stock of 8,528,744 volumes. Many of these items were confiscated by the Germans, especially any Czech books dealing with geography, biography or history. Works by any Czech writers were taken away, many burned, most others taken directly to the paper pulp mills. Special libraries were devastated, and suffered a loss of about 2,000,000 volumes.\n\n“Czechoslovak Libraries after the Munich Pact… Soon afterwards all the Czech books dealing with geography, biography, and especially history disappeared… After being confiscated, many of these were burned, whole collections totally destroyed or taken away to Germany….”\n\nOfficial notices of censorship and destruction of Czech nationalist and ethnic literature were given. A decree of the autumn of 1942 ordered all university libraries to hand over all early printed Czech works and first editions to the Germans. The collections in the National Museum were pillaged; and the Modern Art Gallery, containing a unique collection of Czech art of the 19th and 20th centuries with some precious specimens of foreign (mainly French) art, was closed. The entire political literature of the free republic, as well as the works of the participants in the Czech revival of the 18th and 19th centuries, were withdrawn. The books of Jewish authors were prohibited, as well as those of politically unreliable writers. The Germans withdrew the Czech classics, as well as the works of the 15th century reformer John Hus, of Alois Jirásek, the author of historical novels, the poet Victor Dyck, Karel Čapek, Vladislav Vančura and others. Thus the Hitlerites destroyed the national culture of the peoples of Czechoslovakia, plundered and pillaged works of art, literature, and science. It can be seen as gruesome precedence allowing communist regime, alongside with Soviet ocuppants post 1948 - 1968 respectively, to withhold parts of the seminal cultural heritage for generations. \n\n\nTotal losses of books, manuscripts and incunabula estimated at 2,000,000 volumes.\n\nand 400 manuscripts.\n\n\nAbout a third of books in German libraries were lost.\n\n\nThe library of the University of Kecskemét had 45,000 volumes destroyed, and another 30,000 in the social sciences destroyed as well.\n\n“1944-1945 Hungary: Nearly all small libraries (public, special) were destroyed and many of the larger libraries suffered serious damage during the siege of Budapest. The libraries of Parliament and of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences were among the libraries most severely hit; the library of the Polytechnic Institute was completely destroyed.”\n\nRussian soldiers confiscated books looted by the Germans, \"...notably including those of the great Hungarian Jewish collectors...\" and sent many of them back to Moscow, rather than leaving them in Hungary.\n\nItalian libraries suffered damage as a result of allied and German air raids. More than 20 Municipal libraries were destroyed and many public libraries suffered the same fate. It has been estimated that almost 2 million printed works and 39,000 manuscripts were destroyed.\n\n\nAbout 2 million printed works and 39,000 manuscripts lost.\n\nAfter the war, many of the major collections looted from Italy were identified by the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives service of the American military government and returned to their owners. The Collegio Rabbinico Italiano, the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz, and the Deutsche Historische Bibliothek Rom were all returned, although not all were intact, to their owners in Italy. “These last two collections were seized by Hitler with the idea of re-establishing them in Germany.”\n\nThere is a photograph in the National Archives and Records Administration showing the unloading of some of these re-captured books. The caption reads: “The Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz, Library, is being unloaded at the Offenbach Archival Depot 9 July 1945. Three freight cars, 578 cases of books and catalogs of paintings, were brought from the Heilbronn salt mine in Württemburg-Baden where they were kept since brought from Italy.”\n\n1942-1945 Japan: Air raids did heavy damage to libraries and collections, including the Cabinet Library in Tokyo.\n\nThe heaviest damage was sustained by governmental libraries. Over 655,000 volumes in the Tokyo area were destroyed, including those of the cabinet Library (46,695 volumes), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (40,000 volumes), the Transportation Ministry (69,000 volumes), the Bureau of Patents and Standards (15,528 volumes) and the Finance Ministry (manuscripts and catalogs). The entire library of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries was lost. Whether directly or indirectly related to the damages of war, total book resources in Japanese libraries were cut by 50%, and when the Occupation forces arrived in 1945 there were probably fewer than five million books in the country.\n\n“In Japan, as in Germany, human and cultural destruction (including the loss of texts) were, of course, paired. Figures are hard to come by, but by the end of the war, bombing had accounted either directly or indirectly for the destruction of 50 percent of the total book resources in Japanese libraries. When the occupation troops arrived in 1945, there were probably fewer than five million books in the country. Three quarters of all public libraries suffered heavy damage, with 400,000 volumes in public library collections lost in a bombing raid on Tokyo alone. Heavy damage was sustained by government libraries; more than 655,000 volumes of the Tokyo area were burned, including libraries of the Cabinet, Bureau of Patents and Standards, and Finance Ministry.”\n\nNearly three-fourths of all public libraries, a third of which were located in the Tokyo metropolitan area, suffered serious damage. Tokyo’s largest, the Hibiya Public Library, sustained the greatest losses, estimated to be about half the entire 400,000 public library collections destroyed by bombing raids over Tokyo.\n\nLatvia was occupied by the Soviets from 1944 to 1991. What records remained after the defeat of the Germans were either removed to Russia or destroyed by intent or neglect. In Latvia, Holocaust scholarship could only be resumed once Soviet rule had ended. Much of the post-1991 work was devoted to identification of the victims. This was complicated by the passage of time and the loss of some records and the concealment of others by the NKVD and its successor agencies of the Soviet secret police.\n\n“Political upheavals have often created a frustrating situation for librarians and citizens in general. Consider the case of the Baltic states: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which in 1918 had regained their independence after centuries of Russian occupation? As a result of the German-Soviet non-aggression pact of 1940, they were once more occupied by Russian troops and in 1940 bookstores and libraries were 'cleansed' and unwelcome titles were burned. In 1941 Nazi Germany conquered these countries, only to be driven out once more by the Soviet army in 1944-1945. These succeeding regimes brought not only an appalling waste of human lives, but also rapidly alternating prohibitions of books, purging of libraries and the rewriting of history and textbooks.”\n\nIn Lituania, all universities and public libraries have been closed, and Gestapo agents removed or destroyed the equipment of the scientific institutions and books of the national libraries. The Academy of Arts was ransacked, and in Kaunas, the archives of the Academies of Science and Music were destroyed. Over 10,000 volumes were stolen from the State Library, and 23,000 more were stolen from the University Library. In part, this was in reprisal for the country’s steadfast refusal to create a legion of Lithuanian volunteers to fight against the Russians.\n\nIn Vilna (Vilnius, Vilno, Wilno, etc) the ERR set up a collecting point for Lithuania. Dr. Gotthard of the Berlin headquarters arrived in August 1941, and began looting the Strashun Library. He conscripted the labor of two Gestapo prisoners, including A.Y. Goldschmidt, librarian of the Hispanic-Ethnographic Society. Eventually, he committed suicide rather than assist the looting of the libraries. Dr. Johannes Pohl appeared in January 1942, and ordered that the city be made a collecting point for the region, and concentrated at the Yidisher Visenshaftlikker Institut (Institute for Jewish Research). Materials were brought in from the private collections from Kovno, Shavle, Mariapol, Volozhn and other towns, and included books from over 300 synagogues and personal libraries. Some of the Jewish workers were able to smuggle out and hide some of the most valuable books in the ghetto, which was stopped when the ghetto was liquidated in July 1943. The accumulated collection of over 100,000 volumes were separated into piles by century of publication, and about 20,000 were selected for shipment to Germany. The remaining materials were pulped to avoid storage and transportation costs, and to make a small profit. One incident involved an assistant of Dr. Pohl dumping out five cases of rare books in order to make room for an illegal shipment of hogs.\n\n\"On 24 June 1941, the Nazis captured Vilna. In March 1942, representatives of the Einsatzstab Rosenberg (Rosenberg Operation Group), the body charged with looting Jewish cultural property for the Institut zur Erforschung der Judenfrage (Institute for the Study of the Jewish Question) in Frankfurt, established a sorting center in the YIVO building. Workers were forced to select the most valuable objects from the collections of YIVO and other local Jewish institutions to be sent to Frankfurt, while the remaining items would be destroyed...\nA group that was dubbed the “paper brigade” led by Avrom Sutzkever and Shmerke Kaczerginski, risked their lives daily by hiding material in the building’s attic or smuggling it into the Vilna ghetto, where they buried it or gave it to non-Jewish contacts for safekeeping. Since it was located outside the ghetto, the YIVO headquarters also served as a transit point for smuggled weapons for the Jewish partisan movement. Such activity continued until the liquidation of the Vilna ghetto in September 1943. Some of the hiding places went undiscovered and the items stored there survived the war, but the YIVO headquarters and its contents were completely destroyed.\n\n“He [Captain Seymour Pomrenze] was instrumental in the restitution of thousands of looted archives, including those of the Strashun Library in Vilna, Lithuania. The library was the premier Jewish library in Europe before World War II, and luckily survived the Nazi destruction of Vilna. The contents of the library, along with those of the YIVO building in Vilna, were looted for eventual placement in the anti-Semitic “Institute for the Study of the Jewish Question.” Pomrenze oversaw the return of tens of thousands of items from the Strashun Library to the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research headquarters in New York.”\n\n“In 1954 a depot of 330,000 confiscated books was discovered in the building of a former bank in Vienna. This depot contained also books from Tanzenberg and there was found a part of the library of the famous YIVO in Vilna. With the help of an Austrian-Jewish lawyer called Friedrich Weihsenstein they were returned to the YIVO in New York. The librarian of the IKG wrote lists of the books, but none of the documents mention their numbers and the YIVO in New York was not very cooperative regarding the research.”\n\nIn Luxembourg, all citizens engaged in “culture” had to register with the German government. This would help in the suppression of dissent, and enforce official censorship. In the “Duty of Registration for All Persons Engaged in Creating or Transmitting Cultural Values in Luxemburg (Verordnungsblatt, No. 15, February 21, 1941, page 109)”, all writers, authors, publishers, art publishers, copyists and book dealers had to register. Those who refused to register with the occupation government, would be forbidden to practice their arts in the future.\n\n“In Luxembourg, non-German reference materials, i.e., French or English were confiscated and replaced by German encyclopaedias. In fact, after 1940, there was an attempt to eliminate all English and French books from collections in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. It was an attempt to seal off occupied countries from the intellectual currents of democracy.”\n\n“…the Japanese looted very thoroughly the head office at Batu Gajah: they removed all the scientific equipment and took away or broke about 5,000 rock slices. Fortunately the rock and mineral collections and the library and records did not fare so badly: eventually they tried to burn down the building, but this was prevented by the Asiatic staff. The district office also suffered badly. A serious loss was the disappearance of a memoir and map ready for publication, as well as all the relevant notes, so a good deal of the country will have to be re-mapped.”\n\nThe Penang Library had its main collection in English, but also had some materials in indigenous languages. When the Japanese Army entered the city, they looted the library, yet they left behind enough materials for the library to continue operations. After the takeover, the library continued to have over 1,000 subscribers and remained open for their patrons until June 1944.\n\nThe Malta Royal Library building was slightly damaged by aerial bombardment during the siege of Malta but no books were lost.\n\n\n“…the library of the Spinoza House, the Dutch Scientific Humanitarian Commission, the International Archives of the Women’s Movement, the Portuguese-Israelitic Seminary Ets Haim, the Beth Hamidrash Library, the library of the Nederlandsch-Israelitic Seminary, the Valkenburg Monastery Library the Dutch Economic and Historical Archives fell into the occupier’s hands. In October and November 1943 it was the turn of the Amsterdam Ashkenzai archive and of several smaller Jewish archives in the provinces. The high point was of course the famous library of about 160,000 volumes of the International Institute for Social History (IISG) in Amsterdam, which was confiscated within two months of the invasion.”\n\n“The Einsatzstab Reichleiter Rosenberg (ERR), established by Alfred Rosenberg in 1939, was represented in the Netherlands by an Amsterdam office. In 1940, the ERR confiscated all property belonging to the Freemasons, among which was the famous Biblioteca Klossiana. This library had been bought by Prince Hendrik (1876-1934), husband of Queen Wilhelmina, and had been presented by him to the order of Freemasons. It contained important incunabula and books on the occult, which were not available anywhere else in the Netherlands. Other parts of the library and the order’s archive were of importance as well. The library of the International Institute for Social History in Amsterdam was closed, and the ERR took over the building for its offices. In July 1940 the institute’s very important collection of newspapers and the library of approximately 160,000 volumes were confiscated. German arguments over their final destination kept the materials in Amsterdam until the winter of 1944, when they were transported to Germany in eleven ships. The International Archives of the Women’s Movement, established in Amsterdam in 1935, lost its whole collection after the institute was closed by the Sicherheitspolizei (Security Police) in June 1940. In August 1942, 499 crates containing books and archives taken from, among others, Jewish antiquarian book dealers and theosophical societies were transported to Berlin.”\n\n“In Holland [sic] the monks of the Abbey van Berne distributed the early printed books on the monastic library among neighboring farmhouses. Virtually all were destroyed by natural causes, by theft, and by shellfire. The Abbey buildings are intact.”\n\n“Sigmund Seeligmann (1873–1940) was a renowned Dutch bibliographer and historian. He often invited scholars to use his extensive private library, which included more than 18,000 books on Jewish subjects and was considered one of the most important Jewish libraries in Europe before World War II. After the invasion of the Netherlands, the Nazis confiscated Seeligmann’s library in October 1941. His collection was sent to Berlin, where it became part of the Reichssicherheitshauptamt Library. In 1945, Seeligmann’s library was discovered in Czechoslovakia. At the time, Nazi-looted Jewish cultural property was being uncovered in salt mines, bunkers, and castles across Europe. Often the recovered objects were the only surviving elements of the Jewish communities they once had served. Salvaging and preserving these cultural treasures became a high priority for Jewish organizations.”\n\n“The collections as well as the libraries of the International Institute for Social History at Amsterdam have been closed down. The library, which has about 150,000 volumes, as well as a very important collection of newspapers, has been taken to Germany. The Bibliotheca Rosenthaliana of the University of Amsterdam, which belongs to the city, has been packed in 153 crates and has also been taken to Germany. Famous collections concerning natural history of the College of St. Ignace at Valkenburg and the Museum of Natural History at Maastricht have also been taken to Germany, as well as the library which belonged to it. In 1940 all the property of the Freemasonry Lodges was confiscated and taken away to Germany. It included the well-known Klossiana Library.”\n\nThe German authorities were especially interested in manuscripts of German and Dutch mysticism. Libraries and antiquarian bookstores were combed for special manuscripts of ancient lore. A special search by Dr. W. Grothe and F. Brethauer of the ERR was begun in August 1941. The Amsterdam, Utrecht, Leiden and Groningen university libraries were searched for manuscripts. Also combed were the Haarlem and Nijmegen municipal libraries, as well as the Fries Genootschap, the Meermanno-Westreenaianum in the Hague, the Nijmegen Municipal Museum and the Haarlem Bishop’s Archive. Many manuscripts were taken and then later “exchanged” for manuscripts from German and Austrian libraries. If the manuscripts could not be exchanged or purchased, they were copied. The exchanges were sometimes advantageous for the Dutch, but the balance weighed in favor of the Germans, and many times were not unlike forced sales. Although with a legal appearance.\n\nThe German efficiency in selecting and removing these volumes from the occupied countries and sending them back to German is astounding. Also astounding is that many of the major collections remained more or less intact, and were recovered by the Allies at the end of the war. German libraries had preserved many of these Dutch collections as well as their own. As such, much of the Biblioteca Rosenthaliana, the library of the Jewish Portuguese Seminarium of Amsterdam, the books of the Societas Spinozana, the collections of the Freemasonic Groot Orde der Nederlanden, the volumes of the Etz Chaim Seminarium, and twenty Sifre Toroth (plural of Torah) were returned to their country from the Offenbach Archival Depot.\n\n\nMost of the Polish libraries were damaged and suffered losses by German occupation, especially prominent was the destruction of libraries in Warsaw who saw continued bombing by the Germans. Poland faced especially great loses during the early years of the war as the Germans focused on \"outright destruction of Jewish books and religious artifacts\". The German's created \"Bremn-Komman-dos\" (arson squads) with their main focus being on burning Jewish synagogues and their libraries. What little did survive during the initial bombing and shelling was confiscated during the occupation and transported to Berlin so the German's could study the \"Jewish Question.\"\n\nWhen Polish librarians made a report to the International Federation of Librarians Association after the war , they stated that in 1939 there were 22,500,000 volumes in Polish libraries. By the end of the war a total of 15,000,000 of those had been burned, destroyed, or confiscated. This number is believed to be conservative, as it does not account for private collections which would have been destroyed or looted as Jewish families were deported. \nAround 15 million volumes were lost of a total 22.5 million volumes available.\n\n\nEngland also lost her share of books destroyed during the war. Some 54,000 children’s books went up in flames during the bombing of England, and thousands of special collections housed in the libraries are gone forever. Of the 1,145,500 books destroyed in the ruins of the bombed libraries, 982,000 were in city libraries; 155,813 belonged to university libraries, and the rest in county libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13129231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13129231", "title": "Maranaos in America", "text": "Maranaos in America\n\nMaranaos in America for Peace, Integration and Advancement was first conceptualized by a group of Maranaos in Los Angeles, California in early 2007. After several monthly meetings, the group was successfully launched on September 2, 2007 in Burbank, California. It is the first Maranao organization ever formed in the United States and Northern America. It was formed for the advancement and to help build a lasting relationship among the Maranao community in America through social/cultural activities, educational seminars, peace forums, networking and outreach.\n\nThe organization's long-term goal is to bridge assistance back home through sponsoring qualified, financially challenged, youth scholars to achieve their ultimate dreams of becoming an informed, educated Maranao. \n\nMembers of \"Maranaos in America\" are from all over the United States, including Texas, Nevada, Florida and New York. Its seat of Main office is in Los Angeles.\n"}
{"id": "41050886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41050886", "title": "Michigan Cyber Range", "text": "Michigan Cyber Range\n\nMichigan Cyber Range was established by Merit Network in the summer of 2012 to teach cybersecurity certification courses and to provide cybersecurity-related services. Merit Network staffs and operates the Michigan Cyber Range in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Range's infrastructure contains virtual servers placed on Merit's fiber-optic network. The Michigan Cyber Range currently has four physical locations in Michigan, on the campuses of Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti, Michigan, Ferris State University in Big Rapids, Northern Michigan University in Marquette, and the 110th Attack Wing facility in Battle Creek. Expansion plans could involve as many as 10 sites.\n\nThe Michigan Cyber Range was a foundational piece of Michigan Governor Rick Snyder's cyber initiative, which was launched in October 2011 to improve cybersecurity efforts to protect families, communities, businesses and government. Merit Network's CEO and President Don Welch who, while a professor helped create the United States Military Academy's cybersecurity program, worked with David Behen of the State and Brigadier General Mike Stone from the Michigan National Guard to create the vision for the Cyber Range and secure its start-up funding. Throughout 2012, public and private organizations pledged funds and the Michigan Cyber Range was created and staffed.\n\nWilliam J. \"Joe\" Adams joined Merit Network in June 2012 as executive director of research and the Michigan Cyber Range. Adams, a career Signal Corps officer in the U.S. Army, was formerly CIO of the National Defense University. Adams has also served as a professor and research scientist at West Point and network engineer for the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe.\n\nShortly after his hiring, Adams assembled a staff to create and maintain the Michigan Cyber Range's cybersecurity training environment, which is called Alphaville. Alphaville is a virtual environment that simulates the computer systems of a town hall, library, small company, police station, and power company. Organizations and companies can practice the detection and mitigation of cybersecurity threats using the Alphaville environment.\n\nOn November 9, 2012, Michigan Governor Snyder participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony for Michigan Cyber Range.\n\nMichigan Cyber Range partners include Merit Network, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Energy, National Institute of Standards and Technology, DTE Energy, Consumers Energy, Plante and Moran PLLC, Juniper Networks, Eastern Michigan University, Michigan State Police, Michigan's Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, Michigan Economic Development Corporation, and the Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget.\n\nIn January 2013, the Michigan Cyber Range began a collaboration arrangement with Mile2, a developer and provider of vendor neutral professional certifications for the cybersecurity industry. Mile2 provides course materials, instructors and certification exams to the Michigan Cyber Range, and the Range offers a full curriculum of training courses in many cybersecurity disciplines. Mile2 is recognized by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) as an Information Assurance (IA) Courseware Institution, and the company is NSA CNSS-accredited as well as NIST and NICCS-mapped.\n\nOrganizations and businesses use the Michigan Cyber Range to conduct cybersecurity exercises and simulate various kinds of cyberattacks. On July 24, 2013, members of the West Michigan Cyber Security Consortium (WMCSC) participated in a red team–blue team exercise, where WMCSC team members defended the IT resources of a virtual town from cyber attacks initiated by Michigan Cyber Range staff. The Michigan Cyber Range, members of the West Michigan Cyber Security Consortium (WMCSC) and members of the Michigan Cyber Civilian Corps (MiC3) joined forces again for a second red vs. blue team exercise on the campus of Davenport University on July 23, 2014. \n\nIn September 2013, Merit Network introduced a new cybersecurity service, called Merit Secure Sandbox, which uses the infrastructure of the Michigan Cyber Range. Organizations can use the service for cybersecurity exercises, educational purposes, and software testing.\n\nOn March 25, 2014, the Michigan Cyber Range opened the first cybersecurity hub of its kind at a U.S. National Guard base, dedicating the facility located at the 110th Attack Wing in Battle Creek, Michigan. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder attended the ribbon-cutting ceremony. During the event, teams in Battle Creek participated in cybersecurity exercises with similar teams at the United States Military Academy at West Point and at the California National Guard.\n\nOn October 15, 2014, Consumers Energy and DTE Energy conducted an incident response exercise using the Michigan Cyber Range. Representatives from the two power companies and the Michigan State Police worked closely with Cyber Range staff to create the exercise, called \"Power Phoenix\", which required participants to diagnose and mitigate a malware-compromised computer network and SCADA environment.\n\nIn early 2015, Wayne County Community College District (WCCCD), in conjunction with the Michigan Cyber Range and Mile2, hosted a groundbreaking veteran's retraining program. The 13-week program prepared a group of military veterans for a career in cybersecurity. 17 students participated in the retraining program. The veterans were selected based on their experience and aptitude, in conjunction with Wayne County’s veterans affairs office.\n\nDuring 2016, the Michigan Cyber Range added new publicly-accessible hubs of the in Southeast Michigan. Each location provides certification courses, cybersecurity training exercises and product hardening/testing through a direct connection to the Michigan Cyber Range. Cyber Range Hubs opened inside the Velocity Center at Macomb-Oakland University in Sterling Heights on March 18th and at Pinckney Community High School on December 7th. \n\nDuring the fall of 2016, Merit Network and Michigan Governor Rick Snyder launched the Governor's High School Cyber Challenge, a competition for high school students to test their skills in computer science, information technology and cybersecurity. The final round of the challenge happened at the North American International Cyber Summit, hosted by Governor Snyder on October 17, 2016. The three-person team from Clinton High School was crowned champions of the competition after defeating the 28 other teams in the inaugural event. The Michigan Cyber Range provided the challenges and infrastructure for the annual cyber competition.\n\nMichigan Cyber Range has twice been named the North American Authorized Training Center (ATC) of the year by Mile2.\n\nIn 2017, the Michigan Cyber Range doubled the participation in the Governor’s High School Cyber Challenge from 292 high school students to 584. This included successful elicitation of participation from Native American tribal areas in Michigan. Another milestone was the addition of Cyber Range hubs in Florida and Georgia. Continuing their commitment since 2015, the Cyber Range provides exercises, support and infrastructure to the US Cyber Challenge, a national cyber competition sponsored by the Department of Homeland Security. Other milestones include the creation of virtual environments to facilitate cybersecurity involvement in kinetic training exercises, creation of an International Cyber Exercise (ICE) to promote collaboration and partnership between states’ National Guard units and the countries participating in the State Partnership Program (SPP), and the successful launch of the Regional Cybersecurity Education Collaboration in partnership with the State of Michigan and Cisco. The ICE event in 2017 was run at the NAICS – 12 states and 10 countries participated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19686492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19686492", "title": "Ministry of Public Health (Democratic Republic of the Congo)", "text": "Ministry of Public Health (Democratic Republic of the Congo)\n\nThe Ministry of Public Health () is the health ministry of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nIt has a public health system based loosely on the historical Belgian colonial public health system. The ministry is largely a policy and oversight organization, with operational functions embodied within a number of subordinate ministry organizations, including the Institute of Tropical Medicine, Institute of Biomedical Research (\"Institut National de Recherché Biomédicale\") and the Kinshasa School of Public Health. The latter trains physicians in public health, staffs the public health infrastructure composed of Health Zones, including the Health Zone doctors who provide both public health services and partial staffing of district hospitals. \n\nIn November 2012, Dr. Félix Kabange Numbi was appointed Health Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As of 2018, the position is held by Oly Ilunga Kalenga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26557681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26557681", "title": "Mong Tai Army", "text": "Mong Tai Army\n\nThe Mong Tai Army (; sometimes transcripted Muang Tai Army; abbreviated MTA), was an insurgent group consisting of soldiers from the Shan minority in Myanmar, founded in 1985 by Khun Sa. It had up to 20,000 armed troops at its peak, and was one of the largest forces opposing the government of Myanmar at its time. It was also involved in drug trafficking in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe MTA had its headquarters in Ho Mong (Homein), Langkho District, a village near the border of Mae Hong Son Province.\nThe Mong Tai Army was founded in 1985, after the merging of two rebel factions; Khun Sa's Shan United Army (SUA) and Moh Heng's \"Tai Revolutionary Council\" faction of the Shan United Revolutionary Army (SURA). Despite officially stating that their goal is ultimately independence for Shan State, both groups have been accused of acting as private armies for Shan warlords (Khun Sa and Moh Heng, respectively). They have both also been accused of being heavily involved in the drug trade in the Golden Triangle, an area that produces millions of dollars of opium every year.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Mong Tai Army had a peak strength of 20,000 soldiers. After heavy battles against the Tatmadaw (Myanmar Armed Forces) between 1993 and 1995, tensions grew between the Shan nationalist field officers and the Chinese leaders. Shan nationalists wanted to achieve an independent state for the Shan minority, while the Chinese leaders were more interested in the illicit opium trade and the money that it earned.\n\nUntil 1996, the Mong Tai Army was also fighting the United Wa State Army (UWSA), something which benefited Tatmadaw forces in the area. During their fighting, the USWA managed to occupy two large swathes of territory near the Thai border, north and south of the city of Kengtung.\n\nOn 7 July 1995, an internal dispute broke out within the Mong Tai Army, and 8,000 fighters under the command of Colonel Yod Kan and Dae Wain retreated into the village of Hsipaw, where they built a new base. They renamed themselves the Shan State National Army, and the group intended to negotiate a ceasefire agreement with government forces. Khun Sa claimed that the source of the dispute was that the soldiers who left did not want to fight for a leader with multiple goals. However, the soldiers claimed that the drug profits went only to Khun Sa, and that civilian casualties were the highest in fighting between the Mong Tai Army and government forces because of a lack of leadership. Thousands died as a direct result from fighting between the Mong Tai Army and government forces.\n\nA majority of the Mong Tai Army laid down their arms and surrendered to government forces in 1995, but around 3,000 split and formed a new faction of the Shan United Revolutionary Army, which later renamed to the Shan State Army - South (SSA-S). According to the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), the terms of the surrender stipulated that in return for ending his insurgency and surrendering his weaponry, Khun Sa would be allowed to live under close government supervision in Yangon (Rangoon), where he would be allowed to engage indirectly, through third-party investors, in legitimate business operations and he would not be prosecuted for his trafficking activities or be extradited to the US. Khun Sa was not only pardoned by the government, but received the title of \"honored elder\", and was allowed to live out the remainder of his life in Yangon, where he died in 2007.\n\nKhun Sa has frequently claimed that the Mong Tai Army was not about the drug trade or making profits from drug trafficking, and claimed that in fact, they were strongly opposed to opium. However, it is reported that Khun Sa once offered to sell his army's entire opium supply to the US government, an offer which was refused. In 1989, Khun Sa was charged by a New York court for trying to import 1,000 tonnes of heroin into the US, with the US DEA offering a $2,000,000 bounty for his arrest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9584750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9584750", "title": "National Athletic and Cycling Association", "text": "National Athletic and Cycling Association\n\nThe National Athletic and Cycling Association (NACA or N.A. and C.A.), from 1990 the National Athletic and Cycling Association of Ireland (NACAI or NACA(I)) was a federation of sports clubs in the island of Ireland practising athletics or bicycle racing or both. It existed from 1922 to 2000, though for most of the period it was not the sole governing body in Ireland for either sport. Its refusal to recognise the partition of Ireland got it expelled from the International Amateur Athletics Federation (IAAF) and the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI). Clubs formerly in the NACAI are now affiliated to Athletics Ireland or Cycling Ireland, each formed by the merger of the NACAI with rival bodies respectively affiliated to the IAAF and the UCI.\n\nThe NACA was formed on 19 July 1922, from a merger of the Irish Amateur Athletic Association or IAAA (including its subsidiary the Cross Country Association of Ireland), the Irish Cycling Association (ICA) and the Athletics Council of the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). The GAA was Irish nationalist and mainly rural, while the IAAA and ICA members were mainly unionists, universities, and the urban middle class. The IAAA was linked to the Amateur Athletic Association of England (AAA).\n\nThe unionist-dominated Northern Ireland and the nationalist Irish Free State had recently been separated politically, and the GAA was prepared to surrender its authority to ensure national unity in athletics and cycling and avoid a division which would reinforce the reality of partition. The GAA after 1923 thus restricted itself to Gaelic games, ceding athletics and cycling to NACA, with which it remained on friendly terms. John J. Keane, previously Chairman of the GAA Athletic Council, became first NACA President. Whereas the GAA had a ban on members of the RUC and British Army, the NACA narrowly voted not to introduce such a measure.\n\nThe NACA affiliated to the IAAF on 11 January 1924, and sent teams to the Olympics of 1924, 1928, and 1932. It also sent five athletes to the 1930 British Empire Games in Canada. In each case, the team was claimed to represent \"Ireland\" rather than the Irish Free State.\n\nIn 1937, the National Cycling Association (NCA) was formed as a NACA subsidiary for cycling clubs, and affiliated to the UCI. The Rás Tailteann was its headline event, an 8-day stage race whose name reflected the Tailteann Games.\n\nAlready by 1925 there was a split, with the Northern Ireland Amateur Athletic, Cycling and Cross Country Association (NIAAA) formed over a dispute concerning an Easter Monday sports meeting in Belfast, which as well as athletics featured greyhound racing and associated betting, which had been allowed by the IAAA but not by NACA. Since the meeting was to raise funds for Belfast Celtic F.C., with an Irish nationalist fanbase, the NACA alienated nationalists as well as unionists in Belfast. The NIAAA affiliated to the English AAA in 1930, with its unionist president Thomas Moles encouraging links within the UK, and Dawson Bates, the NI Home Affairs minister, lobbying the AAA.\n\nIn 1931, Eoin O'Duffy was president of the NACA, and raised at the IAAF the dispute with the British AAA over jurisdiction over Northern Ireland. The IAAF deferred a decision till its conference at the 1932 Olympics. In the meantime O'Duffy tried to resolve the matter by proposing an Irish Amateur Athletic Union (IAAU) in negotiations between NACA and the NIAAA, to have an agreed flag containing the arms of the four provinces on a background of St Patrick's Blue. However, the proposal foundered when an NACA general meeting insisted that the flag used at international events be the Irish tricolour rather than the IAAU flag. The IAAF decided in 1932 not to intervene in the Northern jurisdcition dispute.\n\nIn 1934, the IAAF amended its constitution to require member associations to be delimited by international political boundaries. After a year's delay, the NACA council voted 24 to 27 to reject the IAAF decision and was suspended the following month. There was no Irish team at the 1936 Olympics, other Irish sports boycotting in solidarity with the NACA exclusion. In 1937, some clubs in the Irish Free State left NACA and formed an Irish Amateur Athletic Union (IAAU, the same name as the abortive 1932 proposal) whose remit excluded Northern Ireland. The IAAU applied to join the IAAF, but due to British objections to the name \"Ireland\" was required to rename itself the Amateur Athletic Union of Éire (AAUE). AAUE affiliation in 1938 meant the NACA was definitively expelled from the IAAF. Most Irish athletics clubs remained in NACA, and it was NACA that was affiliated to the Irish Olympic Council, though it was AAUE athletes who competed at the Olympics. Ronnie Delany's gold medal in the 1956 1500 m was not mentioned at the next NACA executive meeting.\n\nThe UCI emulated the IAAF in 1947 by requiring the NCA to disclaim Northern Ireland, expelling it when it refused. In 1949, several clubs broke away from the NCA to form Cumann Rothaíochta na hÉireann (CRE), which would restrict its area of jurisdiction to the Republic of Ireland. The CRE was recognised by the UCI, as was the Northern Ireland Cycling Federation (NICF), formed the same year and linked to the British Cycling Federation. The CRE and NICF co-operated and organised the Tour of Ireland, which attracted fewer Irish cyclists than the Rás Tailteann but more from abroad. A joint CRE-NICF Ireland team competed in international events, from which the NCA was excluded. Rogue NCA teams joined the 1955 amateur world road race championship and the 1972 Olympics road race in protest at their exclusion.\n\nThe NACA retained some international links, through the International Labour Sports Federation (CSIT).\n\nIn 1979, the NCA joined the NICF and the Irish Cycling Federation (ICF; the renamed CRE) in the Irish Cycling Tripartite Committee (ICTC). In 1987 all three merged into the Federation of Irish Cyclists (FIC), later renamed Cycling Ireland.\n\nAfter many failed attempts at unification, Bord Luthchleas na hÉireann (BLÉ) was formed in 1967 by the merger of the AAUE and most clubs of the NACA. However, some NACA clubs refused to join BLÉ, though in 1987 the rump NACA reached agreement with BLÉ allowing joint international representation. In 2000, both bodies were dissolved into the Athletics Association of Ireland, which forms Athletics Ireland together with the NIAAA.\n\nThe presidents of the NACA were:\n"}
{"id": "41643846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41643846", "title": "National Precursor Log Exchange", "text": "National Precursor Log Exchange\n\nThe National Precursor Log Exchange (NPLEx) is a real-time electronic logging system which tracks sales of the methamphetamine precursors ephedrine and pseudoephedrine in the United States. The program is operated by the National Association of Drug Diversion Investigators (NADDI), funded by manufacturers of pseudoephedrine medicine, and technology provided through contract by Apriss Inc. As of January 2014, 29 states have passed NPLEx-related legislation, and it is implemented in most other states on a voluntary basis by national retail chains.\n\nWhenever an individual purchases a precursor medicine from a participating retailer, identifying information is gathered at the point of sale and submitted to NPLEx. The system cross-references the sale to other purchases made by that individual to determine whether that person has purchased in excess of daily and monthly legal quantities. The sale may optionally be blocked, and the record is made available to law enforcement over the Internet.\n\nMultiple law enforcement agencies have reported that the system is not effective at stopping meth production. The system is vulnerable to \"smurfing\", a practice where multiple individuals work together by each buying a legal quantity of precursors and pooling them. The blurring of the responsibilities of government and private business has been called into question, as well as privacy concerns arising from the accuracy and retention of records.\n"}
{"id": "40235861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40235861", "title": "National Raisin Reserve", "text": "National Raisin Reserve\n\nThe National Raisin Reserve was a raisin reserve of the United States. It was created after World War II by the government in order to control raisin prices. The reserve was run by the Raisin Administrative Committee. It was enforced by means of a \"marketing order\". In 2015, the United States Supreme Court ruled the reserve unconstitutional and ended it.\n\nThe reserve was founded in 1949 as a means to prevent the crash of raisin prices in post-World War II America. Because there was less demand from the federal government for raisins, there was suddenly a glut of raisins on the market. As a result, prices began to go down. In 1949, Marketing Order 989 was passed which created the reserve and the Raisin Administrative Committee, which was responsible for running the reserve. Once established, the reserve functioned as a government-mandated cartel, artificially limiting the raisin supply in order to drive up prices, for the collective benefit of raisin growers.\n\nAmerican raisins, once seized, were sent to various warehouses across California, to be stored until sold to foreign nations, fed to cattle or schoolchildren, or disposed of in any other way to get them off the market that year.\n\nThe Raisin Administrative Committee was based in Fresno, California and was overseen by the United States Department of Agriculture. The committee was made up of industry representatives, who would decide each year on the size of the reserve and what to do with the stockpiled supply. The profits from the sale of the reserved raisins (taken from growers often for no payment) were used to pay the expenses of the committee or pay farmers for their seized produce. In one recent year, $65,483,211 was made, although it was all spent, with none left over for farmers.\n\nRegarding the National Raisin Reserve, Daniel Sumner, director of the University of California’s Agricultural Issues Center stated \"It’s a cartel. Let’s use the power of the government to operate a cartel...\", \"Congress had given the USDA the authority to operate reserves during the New Deal: Other reserves existed for almonds, walnuts, tart cherries and other products.\"\n\nIn 2013, Florida Congressman Trey Radel introduced a bill that would repeal Marketing Order 989. The bill was introduced but not enacted.\n\nThe reserve gained prominence in 2013 when Marvin Horne challenged the legitimacy of the reserve in \"Horne v. Department of Agriculture\". Horne's takings claim made its way all the way to the United States Supreme Court, which reversed and remanded the determination of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that it had no jurisdiction. On remand, the Ninth Circuit found that the reserve's requirements did not constitute a taking. In April 2015, the case was argued again before the Supreme Court., which decided in June 2015, by a majority of 8:1, that the confiscation of a portion of a farmer's crops without market price compensation was unconstitutional. This ended the raisin reserve.\n\nIn addition to the National Raisin Reserve, during the New Deal other reserves existed for almonds, walnuts, tart cherries and other products. Enacted during the Great Depression, the New Deal reserves were a result of the government's attempt to keep prices viable for farmers to grow the fruit and make a suitable profit. Most of these no longer exist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4433156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433156", "title": "Op Hoop van Zegen", "text": "Op Hoop van Zegen\n\nOp Hoop van Zegen (Dutch for \"Hoping for the best\"), is a 1900 Dutch play, taking place in a fishing village, with the conflict between the fishermen and their employer ending in tragedy with the unsound boat setting out to sea and sinking with all hands and the owner pocketing the insurance money. It is still staged, and remains the most popular play by Dutch dramatist Herman Heijermans. The socialist Heijermans is considered to have meant the play as a criticism of the entire capitalist system, though some present-day productions downplay this radical approach.\n\nThere are four films based on the play. The most recent was made in 1986, featuring Danny de Munk as \"Barend\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2275631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2275631", "title": "Pakistan Muslim League (J)", "text": "Pakistan Muslim League (J)\n\nThe Pakistan Muslim League (J) (Urdu: پاکستان مسلم لیگ ج) was a political party in Pakistan established in 1988. It merged with PML-Q in 2004.\n\nIt is one of the factions of the original Pakistan Muslim League, named \"J\" after Muhammad Khan Junejo. It was created in 1986 as the sole Pakistan Muslim League when Muhammad Khan Junejo was the Prime Minister of Pakistan under President Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq. In September 1988, the party formed an alliance called Islami Jamhoori Ittehad with Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi's National Peoples Party, and Qazi Hussain Ahmed's Jamaat-e-Islami against Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan Peoples Party for the 1988 general elections. During that time Nawaz Sharif became the most prominent politician outside PPP, and eventually became the Prime Minister of Pakistan in 1990.\n\nAfter Junejo dismissed by Gen Zia ul Haq, Nawaz Sharif parted with the PML, and created his own faction called the PML (N), which became a major political party far more influential than the original PML. Junejo's death also marked the formation of PML (Junejo) in 1993 led by his supporters including Hamid Nasir Chattha and Iqbal Ahmed Khan.\n\nThere was a party split within PML (Junejo) when Manzoor Wattoo in 1995 parted ways with his cousin Hamid Nasir Chattha and created his own PML (Jinnah). The party broke because Chattha wanted to be the president of PML (Junejo), much to the annoyance of Wattoo. The differences cropped up in the same year when Wattoo was removed as the Punjab Chief Minister in the power struggle between the province (headed by PML (Junejo) and the center (headed by rival PPP), leading Arif Nakai another PML (Junejo) candidate to be the new Chief Minister. \n\nAt the 2002 general elections held on October 20, the party won 0.7% of the popular vote and 2 out of 272 elected members. Hamid Nasir Chattha was the head of the party. \n\nIn May 2004, PML-J merged with PML-Q along with other parties to form united PML.\n\nIn 2008 general elections, Hamid Nasir Chattha, being part of ruling PML-Q, lost his National Assembly seat.\n"}
{"id": "38037720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38037720", "title": "Partisans Armés", "text": "Partisans Armés\n\nThe Belgian Army of Partisans (), better known as the Armed Partisans () or PA was a group of the Belgian resistance during World War II and affiliated to the Belgian Communist Party. In 1941, many of its members left to join the \"Front de l'Independance\" while the rest of the group was undermined in 1943 when almost all the leadership of the group and the Communist Party were arrested by German forces.\n\n13,246 people are recognized as having been members of the PA at some point during the war. The group suffered heavy casualties and 1,200 were killed and a further 3,000 were arrested and sent to prison camps.\n"}
{"id": "23619331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619331", "title": "Peanut Price Support Program", "text": "Peanut Price Support Program\n\nThe 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107–171, Sec. 1301–1310) replaced the longtime (65-year) support program for peanuts with a framework identical in structure to the program for the so-called covered commodities (wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, upland cotton, rice, soybeans, and other oilseeds). The three components of the Peanut Price Support Program are fixed direct payments (at $36/ton), counter-cyclical payments (based on a target price of $495/ton), and marketing assistance loans or loan deficiency payments (LDPs) (based on a loan rate of $355/ton). The peanut poundage quota and the two-tiered pricing features of the old program were repealed. Only historic peanut producers are eligible for the Direct and Counter-cyclical Program (DCP). All current production is eligible for marketing assistance loans and LDPs. Previous owners of peanut quota were compensated through a buy-out\nprogram at a rate of 55¢/lb. ($1,100/ton) over a 5-year period.\n"}
{"id": "43387245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43387245", "title": "Peasant rebellion in Podhale", "text": "Peasant rebellion in Podhale\n\nThe Peasant rebellion in Podhale (1669-1670) was a rebellion of rural residents of southern Polish region of Podhale against high taxes imposed on them by the government. It resulted in the defeat of the rebels. \n\nIn the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the gorals of Podhale frequently opposed local authorities, high taxes and the rule of the nobility: the best known such revolt was the Kostka-Napierski Uprising, which took place in 1651. \n\nIn late September 1669, a heavy cavalry unit of Jan Wielopolski (see Towarzysz pancerny, Choragiew (military unit)) came to Podhale to spend winter in the region. By December, the cavalrymen had found their lodgings in the area of Nowy Targ: according to the legal regulations, local residents were obliged to provide food to the soldiers and their officers. Jan Wielopolski sent his envoys to the Podhale villages to collect the food and tax money. In response, the residents of Czarny Dunajec and Dzianisz attacked Wielopolski’s men, disarmed them, beat them up and robbed them. The envoys were then taken to Nowy Targ, where the locals tried to explain their actions to the officers of the unit. Wielopolski ordered the arrest of the peasants’ envoys, which resulted in widespread anger among the gorals. Several hundred peasants approached Nowy Targ, but no skirmish took place. \n\nWhen authorities in Krakow found out about the riots, they decided to pacify the rebellion, so that it would not spread over to other regions. On 6 April 1670 Crown Hetman Jan Sobieski sent seven units (total of 1000 men), consisting mostly of foreign soldiers, to end the rebellion. Meanwhile the rebels had made thorough preparations for the expected action. They even created their own artillery, and divided their forces into several subunits. Apart from military preparations, the gorals sent a letter to King Michal Korybut Wisniowiecki, in which they explained their reasons. \n\nIn May 1670, Sobieski’s forces clashed with the rebels near Nowy Targ. The exact date of the battle is unknown, but it happened most likely between 1 and 3 May 1670. Rebel forces were located around the city, to protect local villages and their residents. The skirmish did not last long, as experienced and well-armed Crown units managed to destroy the rebels. Survivors fled to a nearby forest. The battle ended the rebellion. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43143689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43143689", "title": "People's Pledge (United States)", "text": "People's Pledge (United States)\n\nThe People’s Pledge is a formal campaign finance agreement between all candidates and their campaigns in a given election. It aims to reduce non-party group spending in an election by limiting expenditures to candidates’ campaigns and party committees. The Pledge requires candidates to pay a penalty if outside spending groups spend on behalf of their campaign. Outside spending is defined as any independent expenditure by a non-party group to benefit a candidate.\n\nThe People’s Pledge was developed by Sen. Elizabeth Warren and Sen. Scott Brown during the 2012 U.S. Senate election in Massachusetts. The candidates publicly called on outside groups to stop spending in support of either candidate. They then agreed to pay a penalty equal to half the amount of any outside expenditure from their campaign account to a charity of the opponent’s choice.\n\nIn the 2012 U.S Senate election in Massachusetts, the Pledge significantly reduced outside spending. People’s Pledges have been implemented in 2014 primary elections and proposed in numerous federal races. Nonprofits Common Cause and Public Citizen have launched a campaign to promote the People’s Pledge in the 2014 election cycle.\n\nIn addition to the 2012 U.S. Senate election in Massachusetts, a People’s Pledge was implemented in the democratic primary for the 2013 U.S. Senate election in Massachusetts and the democratic primary for the 2014 gubernatorial election Rhode Island. The Pledge has been proposed by at least one candidate in the 2012 U.S. Senate election in Maine, the 2013 mayoral election in Los Angeles and the 2014 U.S. Senate elections in Kentucky, New Hampshire, and Alaska.\n"}
{"id": "3049261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049261", "title": "Peppermint extract", "text": "Peppermint extract\n\nPeppermint extract is an herbal extract of peppermint (\"Mentha x piperita\") made from the essential oils of peppermint leaves. It is commonly used in cooking, as a dietary supplement, as an herbal or alternative medicine, and as a pest repellent. The liquid is obtained by extracting the oils from dried or fresh leaves and the flowering tops of the plant using alcohol and is commonly sold in 1 oz. or 4 oz. bottles.\n\nPeppermint extract can be used to add a peppermint flavor to baked goods, desserts, and candy, particularly candy canes, mints, and peppermint patties. Extracts for cooking may be labeled as pure, natural, imitation, or artificial. While pure and natural extracts contain peppermint oil specifically, imitation and artificial extracts generally use a mix of ingredients to achieve a flavor resembling peppermint.\n\nPeppermint extract can be substituted in recipes with peppermint oil (a stronger ingredient primarily used in candy-making), crème de menthe, or peppermint schnapps. If the food is not heated, the alcoholic properties of liqueurs may remain present in the finished product.\n\nPeppermint extract may also be added to hot water to create peppermint tea.\n\nMedicinal uses of peppermint extract are well-documented, however the efficacy of most applications is only beginning to be confirmed in clinical trials. For example, Peppermint extract is commonly used to soothe symptoms of the common cold and the flu, and as a digestive aid to relieve bloating and flatulence. It may be used to aid in the relief of pain from menstrual cramps and tension headaches, and because of its cooling properties, it may relieve itching when applied topically. Additionally, peppermint oil may be an effective remedy for Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) with constipation, particularly in capsule form, which bypasses the stomach in order to act in the small intestine..It is also used as a natural remedy for toothache. Moreover, peppermint extract is believed to have antiviral and medicinal properties which may help in the treatment of herpes and the disintegration of gallstones.\n\nPeppermint oil is commonly used to repel ants, flying insects, and rodents.\n\nPeppermint oil is used in endurance sports to improve mental and physical stamina.\n"}
{"id": "7146713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7146713", "title": "Provisional Government of Western Thrace", "text": "Provisional Government of Western Thrace\n\nThe Provisional Government of Western Thrace (Ottoman Turkish: غربی تراقیا حكومت موقته‌سی - \"Garbi Trakya Hükûmet-i Muvakkatesi\", , \"Prosorini Kyvernisi Dytikis Thrakis\", ), later renamed to Independent Government of Western Thrace (Ottoman Turkish: غربی تراقیا حكومت مستقله‌سی - \"Garbi Trakya Hükûmet-i Müstakilesi\", , \"Aftonomi Kyvernisi Dytikis Thrakis\"), was a small, short-lived unrecognized republic established in Western Thrace from August 31 to October 25, 1913. It encompassed the area surrounded by the rivers Maritsa (Evros) in the east, Mesta (Nestos) in the west, the Rhodope Mountains in the north and the Aegean Sea in the south. Its total territory was c. 8.600 km².\n\nThe whole of Western Thrace was captured by Bulgaria during the First Balkan war and awarded to the country by the Treaty of London. During the Second Balkan War the Greek Army captured most of the area between Skecha and the Maritsa river south of Soflu without encountering resistance by the weak Bulgarian army which retreated to the southern slopes of the Rhodope mountains (several kilometers to the north of Skecha and Gyumyurdzhina) while the Ottoman forces occupied the regions of Soflu, Dimotika and Ortakyoy. After the Second Balkan War the treaty of Bucharest was signed which returned the area to Bulgaria and the Greek army withdrew from Western Thrace. Thereupon local Muslims and Greeks petitioned, with the encouragement of the Greek authorities refused to recognize the Bulgarian control of the area and petitioned the Ottoman army to occupy Western Thrace. On their invitation the region was then occupied by small Ottoman forces, largely irregulars. While the area had been returned to Bulgaria by the Bucharest treaty, the Bulgarian army wished to conflict with the Ottomans and retreated to a line coinciding with the pre-Balkan war border up to Aydomush and from there along a ridge of the Rhodope mountains running west of Daridere and east of Madan up to the Bulgarian-Greek border.\n\nAfter the retreat of both the Bulgarian and Greek armies an autonomous state was declared with Ottoman support, in order to avoid Bulgarian rule after the Treaty of Bucharest, in which the Ottomans had not taken part. Under British pressure, the Bulgaria and the Ottomans signed the Treaty of Constantinople, which satisfied the Turkish claims to recognition of Eastern Thrace and recognized Western Thrace as part of Bulgaria. The Ottomans withdrew their forces and by 25 October, and the area was returned by Bulgaria. The southern part of the former Provisional government was occupied in 1918 by French forces. This area was finally annexed by Greece in 1920 and has been part of that country ever since, except for the Bulgarian occupation between 1941–1944. The northern part of the former Provisional Government remained part of Bulgaria after 1919.\n\nThe capital of Provisional Government of Western Thrace capital was Gümülcine, now Komotini, in Greece. \n\nPresident: Hoca Salih Efendi.\n\nArmy: Standing force of 29,170, largely infantry. Commander of the Armed Forces was Süleyman Askerî Bey.\n\nSteering Committee: Reshid Bey, Raif Effendi, Hafous Salih Effendi, Nicodimos (commissioner of the Diocese of Maroneia, representing the Greeks), Mikirditch Tabakian (Armenian), Yaka Cassavi (Jew), Hafous Galip and Eshref Bey Kushchubasi.\n\nAs soon as independence was declared the Provisional Government of Western Thrace determined the borders of the country, put up the new flags on the official buildings, commissioned a national anthem, raised an army, published its own stamps and passports, and prepared the budget of the new country.\n\nA Jewish citizen, Samuel Karaso, was tasked by the government with establishing an official press agency and to publish a newspaper named \"Müstakil\" (\"Independent\") in Turkish and French. The Ottoman Laws and Regulations were adopted without any change and the cases started to be heard by the Court of Western Thrace.\n\nCurrency\n40 Paras = 1 Piaster \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24786035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786035", "title": "Ruth Brown (librarian)", "text": "Ruth Brown (librarian)\n\nRuth Winifred Brown (born Hiawatha, Kansas, July 26, 1891, died 1975) was an American librarian, best known for her dismissal from service for civil rights activities in the late 1940s. On July 25, 1950, she was dismissed after 30 years of service as the Bartlesville, Oklahoma public librarian. She was relieved of her duties in 1950 on the baseless accusation that she was a communist when, in fact, she was fired because of her desegregation activities. She was accused of providing \"subversive\" materials to the public and indoctrinating children against the principles of America. However, it was widely believed at the time that her dismissal was in response to her activities promoting the equality of African-Americans during a time when the leading citizens of the city were not ready to face equality for all.\n\nBrown was born in Hiawatha, Kansas on July 26, 1891 to Silas and Jennie Brown, two New England transplants. She lived with her parents and brother Merrit in Kansas until the family moved to California where Brown went to high school. She attended high school in California and then Northwestern State Normal School in Alva, Oklahoma. Graduating in 1910, Brown then attended the University of Oklahoma in Norman, Oklahoma, graduating in 1915. Brown also attended the School of Library Service of Columbia University during summers, where she was worked with Helen E. Haines and Ernestine Rose, both of which were fierce supporters of intellectual freedom. Brown taught in Eufaula and Nowata but chose not to continue in the profession. Instead she wanted to move back home to be closer to her parents, especially her mother who was confined to a wheelchair. Brown moved to the small town of Bartlesville in 1919, where her parents now lived. In November 1919, Brown accepted the job a librarian at the local Carnegie library in Bartlesville. She felt a calling to her work and said she would not marry because the library was \"like a marriage to her.\" She was passionate about the children who visited the library, knew them all by name, and even persuaded some to become librarians.\n\nActive in the Oklahoma Library Association (OLA), Brown was elected secretary in 1920, treasurer in 1926, and president in 1931. During her presidential year she gave a speech which advised librarians to \"reduce to a minimum worry about lost books\" and to encourage the many who did not \"make use of their right to library service.\" She stated that libraries should provide \"recreational culture suited to all needs\" of the community they served which was a forward-thinking idea for libraries at that time. Like Ranganathan's first law, she believed books were for use and wanted \"books worn out by use.\" Brown truly believed that the library should be both a repository for information and a source for wholesome recreation.\n\nBrown was a library advocate during the Depression and provided useful materials for the unemployed men in the community as well as their families. She also documented how her materials were used, sometimes in great detail. For example, in 1931, she reported that the library’s collection of 20,062 volumes had been used 13.19 times by every person in her service area. She was also a fervent believer in the principle of \"equity of access\" with her commitment to racial equality in the use of the public library.\n\nBrown had long worked for equal rights for all citizens. As early as the 1920s she was working to allow equal access to the library for African-Americans. \n\nIn 1946, after the observing how African-American soldiers fought in the army for rights they were denied at home, Brown helped established the Committee on the Practice of Democracy (COPD) in Bartlesville . The COPD worked to improve \"relations among people of all races; more particularly, to foster improvement of conditions arising out of discrimination based on race, creed, or color.\" Later the same year, the Bartlesville chapter of COPD decided to affiliate with the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) becoming the only chapter of CORE below the Mason–Dixon line. The group quickly went into action working to recruit an African-American doctor to live and work in the black community of Bartlesville. They, together with the YWCA, sponsored interracial conferences and seminars featuring black and white speakers.\n\nIn 1939, only 99 of the 774 Southern public libraries provided services for African American patrons. Though these libraries were under the doctrine of “separate but equal”, African American libraries received inadequate reading materials, short hours, and minimal budgets. In the Bartlesville Public Library, Brown had been providing service to African Americans since the 1920s. Records show borrower's names in the registry and a small number are identified as \"colored\". By 1950, the library subscribed to \"Ebony\" and \"Negro Digest\". Apparently, Brown was also interested in integrating the children's story time but was dissuaded from doing so by the library commission. She then turned her attention to an educational exhibit on \"Negro Culture from Africa to Today\". On a personal note, Brown was pushing the cultural norms and limits in many ways. She upset many in the community when she took two female, African-American teachers to a local diner in downtown Bartlesville. The diner refused to serve them and Brown and her companions staged what later became known (during the 1960s Civil Rights protests) as a \"sit-in\". She took African-American friends with her to church and promoted a lecture by Bayard Rustin, an African-American Quaker pacifist. Almost immediately the leaders of the community began to work to remove Brown.\n\nThe battle between the American Legion and librarian Ruth W. Brown over materials in the Bartlesville Public Library (BPL) revealed the racial tensions in 1950s Oklahoma and the use of McCarthyist tactics to counter the forces of integration.\n\nA citizens' committee was formed to work towards her dismissal. Though it now seems apparent that the true reason behind the anger in the community was a backlash against integration, at the time even the city leaders and commission realized that Brown could not be fired because of her political views and her civil rights activities as they all took place on her own time. Instead, the citizen's group against Brown attacked her for having supposedly subversive materials in the library. The library board was asked by the city commission to perform a complete examination of the library's collection and the general operations and work ethic of Brown. After a thorough examination, the library board reported that they could not find any evidence of subversive materials or subversive teachings.\n\nOn March 9, 1950, The Bartlesville paper, the \"Examiner-Enterprise\", published a picture of the materials in question. The picture showed a pile of copies of \"The Nation\" and \"The New Republic\" (magazines that were now being questioned but which had been subscribed to by the library for years) with two books on top. The first book was \"The Russians: the land, the people and why they fight\" and the other was pictured without its dust jacket or any library markings. There was never any acknowledgement or admission by the paper of where this picture was taken. It had not been authorized by the library board and the books on top could never again be located. The library board, the American Library Association's Intellectual Freedom Committee and Brown were locked in a battle with the Bartlesville city leaders. Miss Brown is nationally recognized as the first librarian to receive assistance from the Intellectual Freedom Committee of the American Library Association.\n\nOn July 10, the city commission thanked the library board for its service and summarily dismissed them all. A new board was immediately appointed which supported the city's position regarding Brown. The campaign to fire her was almost complete and though \"everyone knows what they are really fighting\" as Brown later commented to a friend, her opponents chose the McCarthy era scare tactics as a more viable way to rid the city of her progressive views on racial equality. Brown was interviewed by the city commission on July 25, 1950. She refused to answer questions about her private life except in writing at her attorney's request. When asked about having the subversive materials (\"New Republic\", \"The Nation\", \"Soviet Russia Today\") in the library she responded that they were three of seventy-five publications to which she subscribed. Further, she continued, she did not feel she should censor what her public chose to read and that she had subscribed to them for 15 or 20 years. However, in spite of no clear evidence of subversion, she was fired the same day.\n\nAllegations of subversive Communist activity centered on threatening the \"American way of life\", as it was put by one of her antagonists, the postmaster and library board chairman E. R. Christopher. Bartlesville's elite resorted to censorship and suppression to silence the proponents of racial justice and equality and rid the library of supposedly subversive material. McCarthyism was an effective means to ensure the preservation of Bartlesville's conservative power structure.\n\nThough the Bartlesville commission's public position was that Brown was fired for insubordination, to the outside it appeared she had been fired for trying to protect the library's position of intellectual freedom and the right to free speech. A group of supporters, calling themselves the Friends of Miss Brown, tried to pursue her cause in court but were unsuccessful due to a lack of constitutional standing. Though she was unsuccessful, her Friends managed to keep her case in the public eye for quite some time. The Oklahoma Library Association as well as the ALA and the ACLU all protested the attack on intellectual freedom and Bartlesville continued to be scrutinized on a national level. This attention surprised and embarrassed the town which wished to go back to the way things were and end the spotlight on Bartlesville.\n\nOn March 11, 2007, a bronze bust of Brown was unveiled at the Bartlesville Library and a library scholarship fund was established in her honor.\n\nAlthough Brown never married, she did attempt to adopt two sisters who were orphaned. The welfare agency was unwilling to place them with Brown who was unmarried. The eldest, Mildred \"Holly\" Holiday, ran away from her abusive foster parents when she was eighteen and went back to live with Brown. Holly's sister Ellen then ran away to live with Brown who was finally able to adopt the youngest girl.\n\nThe events in Columbia Picture's 1956 movie \"Storm Center\" were largely fictional, but the character played by Bette Davis was based on Ruth Brown and her struggle with the county commission over communist literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2902209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2902209", "title": "Securities fraud", "text": "Securities fraud\n\nSecurities fraud, also known as stock fraud and investment fraud, is a deceptive practice in the stock or commodities markets that induces investors to make purchase or sale decisions on the basis of false information, frequently resulting in losses, in violation of securities laws. \n\nSecurities fraud can also include outright theft from investors (embezzlement by stockbrokers), stock manipulation, misstatements on a public company's financial reports, and lying to corporate auditors. The term encompasses a wide range of other actions, including insider trading, front running and other illegal acts on the trading floor of a stock or commodity exchange.\n\nFraud by high level corporate officials became a subject of wide national attention during the early 2000s, as exemplified by corporate officer misconduct at Enron. It became a problem of such scope that the Bush Administration announced what it described as an \"aggressive agenda\" against corporate fraud. Less widely publicized manifestations continue, such as the securities fraud conviction of Charles E. Johnson Jr., founder of PurchasePro in May 2008. Then-FBI Director Robert Mueller predicted in April 2008 that corporate fraud cases will increase because of the subprime mortgage crisis.\n\nDummy corporations may be created by fraudsters to create the illusion of being an existing corporation with a similar name. Fraudsters then sell securities in the dummy corporation by misleading the investor into thinking that they are buying shares in the real corporation.\n\nAccording to enforcement officials of the Securities and Exchange Commission, criminals engage in pump-and-dump schemes, in which false and/or fraudulent information is disseminated in chat rooms, forums, internet boards and via email (spamming), with the purpose of causing a dramatic price increase in thinly traded stocks or stocks of shell companies (the \"pump\").\n\nWhen the price reaches a certain level, criminals immediately sell off their holdings of those stocks (the \"dump\"), realizing substantial profits before the stock price falls back to its usual low level. Any buyers of the stock who are unaware of the fraud become victims once the price falls.\n\nThe SEC says that Internet fraud resides in several forms:\n\n\nThere are two types of \"insider trading\". The first is the trading of a corporation's stock or other security by corporate insiders such as officers, key employees, directors, or holders of more than ten percent of the firm's shares. This is generally legal, but there are certain reporting requirements.\n\nThe other type of insider trading is the purchase or sale of a security based on material non-public information. This type of trading is illegal in most instances. In illegal insider trading, an insider or a related party trades based on material non-public information obtained during the performance of the insider's duties at the corporation, or otherwise misappropriated.\n\nIn microcap fraud, stocks of small companies of under $250 million market capitalization are deceptively promoted, then sold to an unwary public. This type of fraud has been estimated to cost investors $1–3 billion annually. Microcap fraud includes pump and dump schemes involving boiler rooms and scams on the Internet. Many, but not all, microcap stocks involved in frauds are penny stocks, which trade for less than $5 a share.\n\nMany penny stocks, particularly those that sell for fractions of a cent, are thinly traded. They can become the target of stock promoters and manipulators. These manipulators first purchase large quantities of stock, then artificially inflate the share price through false and misleading positive statements. This is referred to as a pump and dump scheme. The pump and dump is a form of microcap stock fraud. In more sophisticated versions of the fraud, individuals or organizations buy millions of shares, then use newsletter websites, chat rooms, stock message boards, press releases, or e-mail blasts to drive up interest in the stock. Very often, the perpetrator will claim to have \"inside\" information about impending news to persuade the unwitting investor to quickly buy the shares. When buying pressure pushes the share price up, the rise in price entices more people to believe the hype and to buy shares as well. Eventually the manipulators doing the \"pumping\" end up \"dumping\" when they sell their holdings. The expanding use of the Internet and personal communication devices has made penny stock scams easier to perpetrate. But it has also drawn high-profile public personalities into the sphere of regulatory oversight. Though not a scam per se, one notable example is rapper 50 Cent's use of Twitter to cause the price of a penny stock (HNHI) to increase dramatically. 50 Cent had previously invested in 30 million shares of the company, and as a result made $8.7 million in profit.\nAnother example of an activity that skirts the borderline between legitimate promotion and hype is the case of LEXG. Described (but perhaps overstated) as \"the biggest stock promotion of all time\", Lithium Exploration Group's market capitalization soared to over $350 million, after an extensive direct mail campaign. The promotion drew upon the legitimate growth in production and use of lithium, while touting Lithium Exploration Groups position within that sector. According to the company's December 31, 2010, form 10-Q (filed within months of the direct mail promotion), LEXG was a lithium company without assets. Its revenues and assets at that time were zero. Subsequently, the company did acquire lithium production/exploration properties, and addressed concerns raised in the press.\n\nPenny stock companies often have low liquidity. Investors may encounter difficulty selling their positions after the buying pressure has abated, and the manipulators have fled.\n\nIn 2002, a wave of separate but often related accounting scandals became known to the public in the U.S. All of the leading public accounting firms—Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers— and others have admitted to or have been charged with negligence to identify and prevent the publication of falsified financial reports by their corporate clients which had the effect of giving a misleading impression of their client companies' financial status. In several cases, the monetary amounts of the fraud involved are in the billions of USD.\n\nBoiler rooms or boiler houses are stock brokerages that put undue pressure on clients to trade using telesales, usually in pursuit of microcap fraud schemes. Some boiler rooms offer clients transactions fraudulently, such as those with an undisclosed profitable relationship to the brokerage. Some 'boiler rooms' are not licensed but may be 'tied agents' of a brokerage house which itself is licensed or not. Securities sold in boiler rooms include commodities and private placements as well as microcap stocks, non-existent, or distressed stock and stock supplied by an intermediary at an undisclosed markup.\n\nA number of major brokerages and mutual fund firms were accused of various deceptive acts that disadvantaged customers. Among them were late trading and market timing. Various SEC rules were enacted to curtail this practice. Bank of America Capital Management was accused by the SEC of having undisclosed arrangements with customers to allow short term trading.\n\nAbusive short selling, including certain types of naked short selling, are also considered securities fraud because they can drive down stock prices. In abusive naked short selling, stock is sold without being borrowed and without any intent to borrow. The practice of spreading false information about stocks, to drive down their prices, is called \"short and distort.\" During the takeover of Bear Stearns by J.P. Morgan Chase in March 2008, reports swirled that shorts were spreading rumors to drive down Bear Stearns' share price. Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., said this was more than rumors and said, \"This is about collusion.\"\n\nA Ponzi scheme is an investment fund where withdrawals are financed by subsequent investors, rather than profit obtained through investment activities. The largest instance of securities fraud committed by an individual ever is a Ponzi scheme operated by former NASDAQ chairman Bernard Madoff, which caused up to an estimated $64.8 billion in losses depending on which method is used to calculate the losses prior to its collapse.\n\nThe Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) reports that the Federal Trade Commission, FBI, and state securities regulators estimate that investment fraud in the United States ranges from $10–$40 billion annually. Of that number, SIPC estimates that $1–3 Billion is directly attributable to microcap stock fraud. Fraudulent schemes perpetrated in the securities and commodities markets can ultimately have a devastating impact on the viability and operation of these markets.\n\nClass action securities fraud lawsuits rose 43 percent between 2006 and 2007, according to the Stanford Law School Securities Class Action Clearinghouse. During 2006 and 2007, securities fraud class actions were driven by market wide events, such as the 2006 backdating scandal and the 2007 subprime crisis. Securities fraud lawsuits remained below historical averages.\n\nSome manifestations of this white collar crime have become more frequent as the Internet gives criminals greater access to prey. The trading volume in the United States securities and commodities markets, having grown dramatically in the 1990s, has led to an increase in fraud and misconduct by investors, executives, shareholders, and other market participants.\n\nSecurities fraud is becoming more complex as the industry develops more complicated investment vehicles. In addition, white collar criminals are expanding the scope of their fraud and are looking outside the United States for new markets, new investors, and banking secrecy havens to hide unjust enrichment.\n\nA study conducted by the New York Stock Exchange in the mid-1990s reveals approximately 51.4 million individuals owned some type of traded stock, while 200 million individuals owned securities indirectly. These same financial markets provide the opportunity for wealth to be obtained and the opportunity for white collar criminals to take advantage of unwary investors.\n\nRecovery of assets from the proceeds of securities fraud is a resource intensive and expensive undertaking because of the cleverness of fraudsters in concealment of assets and money laundering, as well as the tendency of many criminals to be profligate spenders. A victim of securities fraud is usually fortunate to recover any money from the defrauder.\n\nSometimes the losses caused by securities fraud are difficult to quantify. For example, insider trading is believed to raise the cost of capital for securities issuers, thus decreasing overall economic growth.\n\nAny investor can become a victim, but persons aged fifty years or older are most often victimized, whether as direct purchasers in securities or indirect purchasers through pension funds. Not only do investors lose but so can creditors, taxing authorities, and employees.\n\nPotential perpetrators of securities fraud within a publicly traded firm include any dishonest official within the company who has access to the payroll or financial reports that can be manipulated to:\n\n\nEnron Corporation exemplifies all five tendencies, and its failure demonstrates the extreme dangers of a culture of corruption within a publicly traded corporation. The rarity of such spectacular failures of a corporation from securities fraud attests to the general reliability of most executives and boards of large corporations. Most spectacular failures of publicly traded companies result from such innocent causes as marketing blunders (Schlitz), an obsolete model of business (Penn Central, Woolworth's), inadequate market share (Studebaker), non-criminal incompetence (Braniff).\n\nEven if the effect of securities fraud is not enough to cause bankruptcy, a lesser level can wipe out holders of common stock because of the leverage of value of shares upon the difference between assets and liabilities. Such fraud has been known as watered stock, analogous to the practice of force-feeding livestock great amounts of water to inflate their weight before sale to dealers.\n\nThe regulation and prosecution of securities fraud violations is undertaken on a broad front, involving numerous government agencies and self-regulatory organizations. One method of regulating and restricting a specific type of fraud perpetrated by pump and dump manipulators, is to target the category of stocks most often associated with this scheme. To that end, penny stocks have been the target of heightened enforcement efforts. In the United States, regulators have defined a penny stock as a security that must meet a number of specific standards. The criteria include price, market capitalization, and minimum shareholder equity. Securities traded on a national stock exchange, regardless of price, are exempt from regulatory designation as a penny stock, since it is thought that exchange traded securities are less vulnerable to manipulation. Therefore, CitiGroup (NYSE:C) and other NYSE listed securities which traded below $1.00 during the market downturn of 2008–2009, while properly regarded as \"low priced\" securities, were not technically \"penny stocks\". Although penny stock trading in the United States is now primarily controlled through rules and regulations enforced by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the genesis of this control is found in State securities law. The State of Georgia was the first state to codify a comprehensive penny stock securities law. Secretary of State Max Cleland, whose office enforced State securities laws was a principal proponent of the legislation. Representative Chesley V. Morton, the only stockbroker in the Georgia General Assembly at the time, was principal sponsor of the bill in the House of Representatives. Georgia's penny stock law was subsequently challenged in court. However, the law was eventually upheld in U.S. District Court, and the statute became the template for laws enacted in other states. Shortly thereafter, both FINRA and the SEC enacted comprehensive revisions of their penny stock regulations. These regulations proved effective in either closing or greatly restricting broker/dealers, such as Blinder, Robinson & Company, which specialized in the penny stocks sector. Meyer Blinder was jailed for securities fraud in 1992, after the collapse of his firm. However, sanctions under these specific regulations lack an effective means to address pump and dump schemes perpetrated by unregistered groups and individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8735136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8735136", "title": "Storming of Kempton Park World Trade Centre", "text": "Storming of Kempton Park World Trade Centre\n\nThe storming of the Kempton Park World Trade Centre took place in South Africa on 25 June 1993 when approximately three thousand members of the Afrikaner Volksfront (AVF), Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB) and other right-wing Afrikaner paramilitary groups stormed the World Trade Centre in Kempton Park, near Johannesburg. At the time of the attack the World Trade Centre was the venue for multi-party negotiations to end the apartheid system through the country's first multi-racial elections. These negotiations were strongly opposed by right-wing white groups in South Africa. The invasion came after other clashes between police and right-wingers, such as the Battle of Ventersdorp, and much belligerent rhetoric from right-wing leaders such as Eugene Terre'Blanche of the AWB.\n\nA protest led by the AVF was scheduled for 25 June outside the negotiation venue. At 8 a.m. protesters began arriving, and began harassing delegates to the negotiations.\n\nThe mood had begun as a festive one, with AWB supporters bringing their families, as well as barbecuing equipment and other provisions, associations one would normally make with a peaceful sit-in or protest. However, the mood changed for the worse when members of Terre'Blanche's personal bodyguard wing, the Ystergarde (Iron Guard) began rocking cars; many were armed, paramilitary members of various right-wing organisations, carrying firearms and other weapons. \n\nA 'Viper' armoured vehicle was used to crash through the glass windows of the WTC allowing supporters, carrying firearms and chanting \"AWB\", to invade the premises. Police attempted to form a cordon to prevent the invasion but were ineffective. A police captain who tried to prevent the vehicle from breaking through was assaulted and suffered internal bleeding. Once inside, the right-wingers were effectively left in control of the building while the multi-party negotiation delegates took cover by hiding in meeting rooms. The protesters painted slogans on the walls, urinated over furniture, and harassed delegates. Damage was estimated at more than 700,000 Rand. \n\nThe protesters also held a prayer meeting in the main negotiating chamber. Before leaving, negotiations with the police were held in which it was agreed that no members would be arrested that day. The departure was peaceful compared to the entrance. \n\nGeneral Constand Viljoen, a conservative Afrikaner leader who was participating in the negotiations, later denied that the invasion was planned by the Afrikaner Volksfront as part of their protest, and criticised the AWB members who had \"got out of hand\".\n\nThe Goldstone Commission, headed by Justice Richard Goldstone, was tasked with investigating the protest. The commission found that the South African Police protecting the negotiations had been completely ineffective, that the protesters had broken the law and breached agreed conditions for their protest, and welcomed the arrest and charging of 60 persons. It found that the AWB members had acted as hooligans, and recommended that assurances from the AWB regarding the conduct of its members should not be relied on in future. It also made recommendations to further restrict public carrying of weapons, paramilitary uniforms and face covering during demonstrations.\n"}
{"id": "30873120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873120", "title": "Süddeutsche Zeitung", "text": "Süddeutsche Zeitung\n\nThe Süddeutsche Zeitung (German for South German Newspaper), published in Munich, Bavaria, is one of the largest daily newspapers in Germany.\n\nOn 6 October 1945, five months after the end of World War II in Germany, the \"SZ\" was the first newspaper to receive a license from the U.S. military administration of Bavaria. The first issue was published the same evening, allegedly printed from the repurposed presses that had printed \"Mein Kampf\". The first article begins with:\n\nThe front page of the first issue can be read here (PDF).\n\nA reversal in ad sales in the early 2000s was so severe that it brought the paper to the brink of bankruptcy in October 2002. The Süddeutsche survived through a 150 million euro investment by a new shareholder, a regional newspaper chain called Südwestdeutsche Medien. Over a period of three years, the newspaper underwent a reduction in its staff, from 425, to 307, the closing of a regional edition in Düsseldorf, and the scrapping of a section devoted to news from Berlin.\n\nIn spring 2004, \"SZ\" launched the \"Süddeutsche Bibliothek\". Each week, one out of 50 famous novels of the 20th century was made available in hardcover at certain newsstands and in book shops. Later a series of 50 influential movies on DVD followed. In late 2004 the daily also launched a popular science magazine, \"SZ Wissen\". In late 2005 a series of children's books continued this branch of special editions.\n\nIn early 2015, the newspaper received a 2.6-terabyte data set from an anonymous source. The dataset contained confidential information of a law firm offering the management of offshore companies. The newspaper in conjunction with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists reviewed the data from the \"Panama Papers\" for over a year before publishing stories from it on 3 April 2016.\n\nIn the late 2017, the newspaper released snippets from a 1.4-terabyte data set to be known as the \"Paradise Papers\" containing about 13.4 million documents, throwing light on the financial offshore jurisdictions, whose workings are unveiled, including Bermuda, the HQ of the main company involved, Appleby, corporate services provider Estera, corporate registries in Caribbean and Singapore-based international trust and corporate services provider, Asiaciti Trust. It contains the names of more than 120,000 people and companies. The newspaper called in the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists to oversee the investigation. BBC Panorama and the Guardian are among the nearly 100 media groups investigating the papers. The leaked data covers seven decades, from 1950 to 2016.\n\nThe title, often abbreviated \"SZ\", translates as \"South German Newspaper\". It is read throughout Germany by 1.1 million readers daily and boasts a relatively high circulation abroad. The editorial stance of the newspaper is liberal and generally of centre-left, leading some to joke that the \"SZ\" is the only opposition in the state of Bavaria, which has been governed by the conservative Christian Social Union of Bavaria almost continuously since 1949. In the 2013 elections the paper was among the supporters of the SPD.\n\n\"SZ\" is published in Nordisch format.\n\nThe national edition features four sections: Politics, Culture, Economy and Sports. Editions sold in Munich and its surrounding counties include local news inserts.\n\nThe \"SZ\" is well known for its daily frontpage column \"Streiflicht\" (searchlight) of 72 lines, which is published anonymously.\n\n\n\"SZ\" has published \"The New York Times International Weekly\" on Mondays since 2004, now a supplement on Fridays, an 8-page broadsheet insert of English language articles from \"The New York Times\".\n\nSüddeutsche.de (formerly sueddeutsche.de) is the Internet portal of the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\". The articles are made up of own contributions from the Süddeutsche.de editors, from texts that are taken over by the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and from agency reports. On the 50th birthday of the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" launched on 6 October 1995 their internet edition under the name \"SZonNet\". The project went from SZ-Text Archive (now DIZ - Documentation and Information Center Munich) under the direction of Schmitt from Hella. At the beginning there were no own editors, but selected contents of the print edition have been taken. 1996 wrote Oliver Bantle from the SZ-Science Department, the first journalistic online concept. This Focus on science went online in the fall of that year with Angelika Jung-Huettl as an editor. They created the first journalistic content that were not in the newspaper. Editorial responsibility lay with the then leader of the SZ Science Department, Martin Urban. In the spring of 1998, the travel journal went into the net. Wenke Hess wrote the concept and implemented it as an editor.\n\nThe online content of \"Süddeutsche.de\" is created and maintained by 25 journalists. Circa 140 million clicks are received on \"Süddeutsche.de\" pages. \"Sued-café\" is the virtual lounge for SZ readers.\n\nDuring the third quarter of 1992 \"SZ\" had a circulation of 397,000 copies. The 1993 circulation of the paper was 304,499 copies. In the period of 1995-96 the paper had a circulation of 407,000 copies.\n\nIts 2001 circulation was 436,000 copies and it was one of the top 100 European newspapers. In 2003 \"SZ\" had a circulation of 433,000 copies. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the paper sold an average of 441,955 copies. The circulation of the paper was 429,345 copies in the first quarter of 2006. During the first quarter of 2012 it had a circulation of 432,000 copies.\n\nSome of Germany's best known journalists either work for the \"SZ\" or spent considerable parts of their careers working for the paper. Heribert Prantl, head of the national desk, is a lawyer by education, a former public prosecutor, and the most cited author of editorial commentaries in German press. Hans Leyendecker is one of Germany's best known investigative journalists. Leyendecker formerly worked for the magazine \"Der Spiegel\", unveiling various political and economic scandals, such as the widespread illegal party financing during the 1980s, and that of the CDU in 1999. He also unveiled the smuggling of Russian plutonium into Germany with the help of the foreign intelligence service \"Bundesnachrichtendienst\" in 1994, bribery at arms deals, the German Visa Affair 2005 and corruption of the staff council at Volkswagen. Another well-known journalist working for the \"SZ\" is Rudolph Chimelli, a political reporter who has been working for the paper since 1 January 1957.\n\nMartin Süßkind also formerly worked with the \"SZ\" and eventually became the editor of the \"Berliner Zeitung\". Giovanni di Lorenzo, who was responsible for the \"SZ\"'s full page documentary \"Seite 3\" (Page 3) from 1994 to 1998, and who was later editor-in-chief of the \"Tagesspiegel\", also worked for the paper. He is now editor-in-chief of the weekly German newspaper \"Die Zeit\".\n\nThe investigative reporters Frederik Obermaier and Bastian Obermayer in 2016 initiated and coordinated the worldwide Panama Papers-revelations\n\nIn May 2018, the German Press Council launched an inquiry to determine whether a \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" cartoon which depicted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was anti-Semitic; readers had complained that the image “reminded them of the anti-Semitic language of Nazi times.” \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" ended its decades-long collaboration with the cartoonist and apologized to readers, calling the cartoon a mistake.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27259117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27259117", "title": "Tehran Communiqué", "text": "Tehran Communiqué\n\nThe Tehran Communiqué, also known as the \"Joint statement of the heads of state in Tehran\" is the joint communiqué mediated by Iranian President, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and signed by the acting President of Azerbaijan, Yagub Mammadov and President of Armenia, Levon Ter-Petrossian on May 7, 1992 with an intention to end the four-year-long hostilities between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh region, a former autonomous oblast of the Azerbaijan SSR.\n\nThe conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of Azerbaijan SSR which started in early 1988 had developed unmitigated and claimed lives of many civilians, interior troops and army. Upon the initiative of the Iranian side, within the framework of diplomatic efforts on the normalization\nof the situation in Nagorno Karabakh and at the Azerbaijani-Armenian border, the leaders of Azerbaijan and Armenia were invited to Tehran for negotiations on May 7, 1992. The invitation was considered as the third stage of peace efforts initiated by Iran. First mediation stage started in February when Iranian envoy Ali Akbar Velayati visited both Baku, Yerevan and Karabakh but it was quickly halted due to capture of Khojaly and subsequent Khojaly Massacre by Armenian troops. Second effort was made in March when Iranian envoy Mahmoud Vaezi conducted \"shuttle diplomacy\" tour visiting both republics and holding several meetings which led to formal invitation of leaders of Azerbaijan and Armenia to Tehran in May.\n\nDuring the talks between Azerbaijani and Armenian leaders, it was agreed that meetings between top level representatives from both countries, including military personnel, would be organized and all disputes between the parties would be solved by peaceful means on the basis of principle of the Conference for Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE, \"now OSCE\") and international law. Parties committed to international legal norms and UN Charter to ensure peace and stability of borders as well as resolve ongoing refugee crisis. As a result of talks, the parties agreed to open all communications after subsequent visit of Iranian envoy Mahmoud Vaezi to Baku, Stepanakert and Yerevan and involve CSCE observers for continuation of mediation efforts.\n\nHowever, the peace efforts failed the next day, when Armenian troops attacked and captured the Azerbaijani town of Shusha on May 8, 1992 forcing 23,156 ethnic Azerbaijanis out, in violation of the ceasefire agreement. This significantly undermined the outcome of the peace efforts. Official Baku relied on assurances from Tehran on keeping the ceasefire but with loss of Shusha, even before Yagub Mammadov returned to Baku, Iran was considered morally responsible by Azerbaijani authorities. Final effort of Vaezi to mediate a ceasefire after fall of Shusha with his visit to Baku and Yerevan did not succeed due to escalation of conflict and capture of Lachin by Armenian troops on May 18, 1992. As a result, Iranian authorities emphasized that Iran would not accept any border changes hinting at its disapproval of the Armenian approach of the conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26049861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26049861", "title": "Tragic Week (Argentina)", "text": "Tragic Week (Argentina)\n\nTragic Week () was a series of riots and massacres that took place in Buenos Aires, Argentina, during the week of January 7, 1919. The riot was led by anarchists and communists, and was eventually crushed by the Argentine Federal Police under Luis Dellepiane and the intervention of the Argentine Army, Argentine Marine Corps and Argentine Navy.\n\nFrom 1902 until 1909 the FORA (\"Federacion Obrera Regional Argentina\") was founded by Italian immigrant Pietro Gori, an Italian anarchist of international renown) waged a long campaign of general strikes against the employers and against anti-labour legislation. In May 1904, a clash between workers and police left two dead and fifteen injured. In 1907, the feminist-anarchist league was established in Buenos Aires. Toward the end of this decade there arose a situation in which the brutality of the authorities and the militancy of the workers incited each other to greater heights, until, on May Day, 1909, a giant gathering marched through Buenos Aires and was broken up by the police, with 12 killed and a hundred wounded. It was reported at the time that anarchists had provoked the violence. Argentine President José Figueroa Alcorta narrowly himself escaped death when an anarchist bomb was thrown at him while he was driving in Buenos Aires on 28 February 1908. The government officials were again thrown into panic when a 19-year-old anarchist, Ukrainian immigrant Simón Radowitzky, killed with a hand-held bomb the city's police chief, Ramón Falcón and his aide Alberto Lartigau, who were driving through Callao street in Buenos Aires on 15 November 1909. On 16 October 1909, bombs exploded at the Spanish consulate in the city of Rosario, injuring an anarchist and damaging the building. In late 1909, as a result of Falcón's assassination the self-styled \"Patriotic students\" known as Juventud Autonomista was formed. On 25 May 1910, in an effort to disrupt the Argentine centennial celebrations in Buenos Aires, an anarchist gave a bomb to an unsuspecting boy to carry into a cathedral, the bomb however exploded prematurely and the boy was killed and another lost both arms. On 28 June 1910 another bomb exploded in the Teatro Colón and 20 theatre-goers were injured and the Senate and Chamber of Deputies passed a bill providing for capital punishment for those anarchists responsible for causing death. On 9 July 1916, an attempt to assassinate Argentine President Victorino de la Plaza was made by a gun-wielding self-confessed anarchist. The attempt was made while the president was reviewing a troop march past during celebrations of the one-hundred anniversary of Argentine independence. On 9 February 1918, violent strikes took place across Argentina and regular troops were rushed to the affected areas after anarchists wrecked trains, destroyed tracks and burned carriages laden with wheat.\n\nThe conflict began as a strike at the Vasena metal works, a British owned plant in the suburbs of Buenos Aires. The strike at first attracted no attention, but on January 3 the picketing workers fired on a group of policemen who were conducting wagonloads of metal to the Vasena works. Two days later a police sergeant died of his wounds. On January 7 an unrelated event took place: the maritime workers of the port of Buenos Aires voted a general strike for better hours and wages. That same day, at Vasena metal works, the police, who had laid a trap of cleverly planned crossfire, fought it out with the striking workers when they tried to stop a load of metal escorted by the police. Five workers were killed and twenty wounded.\n\nThe next day, Wednesday, the waterfront strike began: all ship movements, and all loading and unloading, came to a halt. On Thursday, funerals were held for the five workers who had been killed by the police. A procession of 150 mourners, some of them armed, followed the funeral coaches, and as they passed, they attacked property and burned an automobile, before reaching Lacroze, a British-owned tram station, which they attacked. The group then broke into the Convent of the Sacred Heart, at Yatay Street and Corrientes Avenue, and set the church on fire. As the group were attacking a store the police caught up with them, fired into the procession, and killed and wounded numerous demonstrators.\n\nMobs went loose all over the city. Groups overturned and burned streetcars and robbed sports shops for the guns inside. In the afternoon, at 3pm, 3,000 people stormed Lacroze Station. Violence also erupted in the Congress, where members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies reportedly threw notebooks at each other, rather than taking action.\n\nThe funeral procession met a suburban train at a railroad crossing and broke every window in the carriages. At Vasena Workshop, angry crowds pushed garbage wagons against the doors to break them down and get at the British directors who were besieged inside. The British Minister appealed to the President Hipólito Yrigoyen for help. Yrigoyen gave the order to shoot to kill, but as the toll of dead and wounded mounted, the mobs became more frantic and destructive.\n\nThat night the \"Federación Obrera Regional Argentina\" (Argentine Regional Workers' Federation) met to consider police action and voted for a general strike for 24 hours throughout the city of Buenos Aires. On Friday there were no newspapers; markets, stores, hotels and bars were closed, and transportation and communication networks (including the telephone lines) were stopped.\n\nA new participant in the massacres, the Argentine Patriotic League, emerged. Targeting the city's sizable Jewish population, the right wing League sought pogroms, and brought an ever-growing list of dead and wounded Jews to the newspaper columns. Mobs were running the streets, shouting \"death to the \"Rusos\",\" a reference to Argentine Jews, who were mainly Russian, and identified in the minds of those in the League and the like-minded as anarchists and Bolsheviks. The Russian Jewish sections of Buenos Aires were invaded, and terrified Jews were dragged from their homes, beaten, shot and killed; some escaped by pleading they were Italians.\n\nFood shortages in the city became acute, and eggs that were selling for 90 cents a dozen in the morning reached 3 pesos (US$1.35) by evening. The railroad union voted to stop trains all over the country in a sympathy strike. The union ordered its members back to work, and issued a statement disclaiming all responsibility for Friday's killings.\n\nThe Montevideo police had informed the authorities of Buenos Aires that they had uncovered a Communist plot to seize both sides of Río de la Plata with the taking of the capitals of Argentina and Uruguay. On Sunday the police informed the press that they had broken into a private apartment where 40 persons, all of them Russian Jews, were in session as the \"First Soviet of the Federal Republic of Argentine Soviets.\"\n\nPlacing the city under martial law, President Yrigoyen appointed Colonel Luis Dellepiane as the commander of riot control forces, after which disturbances subsided. The 5th and 12th Cavalry Regiments arrived on 12 January, and 300 marines and a mountain artillery regiment also entered Buenos Aires. On the morning of 13 January 1919, a group of anarchists attempted to seize arms and ammunition from a local police station but were forced to retreat after coming under fire from a marine detachment from the cruiser ARA \"San Martin\". The role of young army lieutenant Juan Domingo Peron, future president of Argentina, is disputed by historians. The leftist Vanguardia newspaper claimed that over 700 deaths were recorded on Tragic Week, as well as 2,000 injured; residual violence and ongoing pacification efforts resulted in an estimated 300 more deaths in the subsequent weeks. Professor Patricia Marchak estimates the total number of workers killed in the uprising and immediate aftermath at more than 100. The conservative La Nación newspaper reported the number of workers killed in the uprising at around 100 and 400 injured. The police forces suffered three killed and 78 wounded. The unrest led to over 50,000 people being imprisoned.\n\nOn 24 December 1927, anarchists planted bombs at two U.S. bank branches in Buenos Aires resulting in the multiple injuries of twenty bank staff and customers. The Italian Consulate in Buenos Aires was bombed on 23 May 1928 and seven were killed and nearly 50 wounded in the anarchist bombing. On 24 December 1929, 44-year-old Italian-born anarchist Gualterio Marinelli was killed in his attempt to assassinate Argentine president Hipólito Yrigoyen (who had ordered the army to suppress the metalworkers' strike of 1919) but he manages to wound two policemen. On September 6, 1930, Yrigoyen was deposed in a military coup led by General José Félix Uriburu. The Uriburu regime shut down Anarchist and Communist presses and made it difficult, if not impossible, for anarchists to spread their ideals. Uriburu ordered the mass deportation of Spanish and Italian workers that had joined the anarchists and the changing political, economic and social conditions \"led to the decline of this movement, particularly in its manifestation within the labor movement\". Nevertheless, on 20 January 1931, three anarchist bombs went off at three strategic places on the Buenos Aires railway network, killing three and wounding 17.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7072977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7072977", "title": "Western United Front", "text": "Western United Front\n\nWestern United Front (WUF) was an ethnically Fijian political party formed prior to the 1982 elections and contested the election in coalition with the National Federation Party (NFP-WUF Coalition).\n\nIts support was concentrated in the Western Division, mainly in the provinces of Nadroga and Ba. Its formation was due to disenchantment of western Fijians about not receiving fair return from the Native Land Trust Board (NLTB) from the income derived from their land. Fiji's foreign exchange earnings are mainly generated from sugar, tourism, pine and gold, produced in the western division. It was claimed that western landowners, despite providing 65% of the money that financed the NLTB, received only 9%. The Party was launched on 17 July 1981 with the following goals:\n\n\nAs the WUF had a narrow base and a regional focus it formed a coalition with NFP on 11 January 1982, because it regarded the NFP as \"the most prominent political party opposed to the Alliance\". Each party was to maintain its independent identity and objectives. Jai Ram Reddy, the leader of the NFP regarded the coalition as a partnership of equals.\n\nThe leader of the party was Ratu Osea Gavidi, a Nadroga chief, who had had a long-standing dispute with NLTB regarding pine plantations in Nadroga. He had contested the parliamentary election of March 1977 and September 1977 as an independent candidate, narrowly winning the Nadroga Fijian Communal Constituency. A prominent member was Napolioni Dawai, a Nadi chief, who had been an assistant Minister in the Alliance Government, but had lost pre-selection for his seat. He had been involved in disputes with tourist resort operators in Nadi regarding appropriate compensation for the use of his tribal land. Another prominent member was Isikeli Nadalo, who had formed the Nadroga Fijian Cane Growers Association and later the Fijian National Party to contest the 1963 election. He had then merged his party with Apisai Tora's Western Democratic Party to form the National Democratic Party, which in turn had merged with the Federation party to form the National Federation Party (NFP). Isikeli Nadalo was elected to the House of Representatives in 1972 under the NFP ticket but left the party following its split in 1977.\n\nIn the 1982 election, the WUF contested all the Fijian Communal Seats in the Western Division plus some others in adjoining provinces. Osea Gavidi narrowly lost the Nadroga Fijian seat, with 47.9% of the votes. Isikeli Nadalo won the National seat based in the Nadroga Province, while Napolioni Dawai lost his Ba-Nadi Fijian Communal seat obtaining only 22.8% of the votes. All other WUF candidates did poorly, getting less than 10% of the votes. Although WUF delivered 7% of the ethnic Fijian vote to the NFP-WUF coalition it was not enough to win enough seats to form Government. The coalition ended with the election and the leader of NFP blamed the failure of WUF to win enough Fijian votes for the coalition's loss.\n\nOn 6 June 1986, the first meeting regarding a coalition with the Fiji Labour Party (FLP) took place with Western United Front delegates where MP, Isikeli Nadalo argued that, \"there should only be two political groups fighting the election.\" With the common aim of defeating the Alliance, on 10 October 1986, agreement was reached for coalition with FLP. In November 1986, when only Ratu Osea Gavidi of the WUF was endorsed as a candidate by the Coalition, which now also included the National Federation Party (NFP), WUF withdrew from the coalition. WUF fought the 1987 election in partnership with an NFP splinter group led by Sharda Nand, a supporter of Sidiq Koya. In the elections, WUF lost ground to both the Alliance and the Labour Party, with Gavidi receiving 41.7 percent of the vote and Nadalo only 13 percent.\n\n"}
{"id": "47303283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47303283", "title": "Women at the Hague", "text": "Women at the Hague\n\nWomen at the Hague was an International Congress of Women conference held at The Hague, Netherlands in April 1915. It had over 1,100 delegates and it established an International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace (ICWPP) with Jane Addams as president. It led to the creation of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF).\nThe 1915 International Congress of Women was organized by the German feminist Anita Augspurg, Germany's first female jurist, and Lida Gustava Heymann (1868–1943) at the invitation of the Dutch pacifist, feminist and suffragist Aletta Jacobs to protest the war then raging in Europe, and to suggest ways to prevent war in the future. \n\nThe scheme of an International Congress of Women was formulated at a small conference of women from neutral and belligerent countries, held at Amsterdam early in February 1915. A preliminary programme was drafted at this meeting, and it was agreed to request the Dutch women to form a committee to take in hand all the arrangement for the Congress and to issue the invitations. \nThe expenses of the Congress were guaranteed by British, Dutch and German women present who all agreed to raise one third of the sum required.\n\nThe Congress opened on April 28 and was attended by 1,136 participants from both neutral and belligerent nations, adopted much of the platform of WPP and established an International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace (ICWPP) with Jane Addams as president. WPP soon became the US Section of ICWPP\n\nInvitations to take part in the Congress were sent to women's organisations and mixed organisations as well as to individual women all over the world. Each organisation was invited to appoint two delegates. Women only could become members of the Congress and they were required to express themselves in general agreement with the resolutions on the preliminary programme. This general agreement was interpreted to imply the conviction (a) That international disputes should be settled by pacific means; (b) That the parliamentary franchise should be extended to women.\n\nThe Congress was carried on under two important rules:\n\nCountries represented included the United States, which sent 47 members; Sweden, 12; Norway, 12; Netherlands, 1,000; Italy, 1; Hungary, 9; Germany, 28; Denmark, 6; Canada, 2; Belgium, 5; Austria, 6, and Great Britain, 3, although 180 others from there were prevented from sailing owing to the closing of the North Sea for military reasons. The Congress, which was attended by a large number of visitors as well as by the members, was extremely successful. Proceedings were conducted with the greatest goodwill throughout, and the accompanying resolutions were passed at the business sessions.\n\n\nThere were problems in getting 1200 women together during wartime. The delegation from Britain was trimmed by the Foreign Office to 24 delegates and actually only two (or three) made it to the Hague. Italy only managed one delegate and she was keen to note that she did not represent her country. One woman also came from Canada to represent what was called at the time \"the Colonies\".\n"}
