{"id": "226236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226236", "title": "1899 in sports", "text": "1899 in sports\n\n1899 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nCollege championship\n\nProfessional championships\n\nEvents\n\nEngland\nFrance\nGermany\nItaly\nScotland\nSpain\n\n\nVFL Premiership\n\nNational championship\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nLineal world champions\n\nEvents\nEngland\nAustralia\nIndia\nSouth Africa\nWest Indies\n\nRoad racing\n\nWorld Figure Skating Championships\n\nMajor tournaments\nOther tournaments\n\nEngland\nAustralia\nCanada\nIreland\nUSA\n\nStanley Cup\n\nTour de France Trail\n\nThe Boat Race\n\nEngland\n\nHome Nations Championship\n\nSpeed Skating World Championships\n\nEvents\nEngland\nFrance\nUSA\n\nAmerica's Cup\n"}
{"id": "19000786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19000786", "title": "1976–77 Cleveland Barons season", "text": "1976–77 Cleveland Barons season\n\nThe 1976–77 Cleveland Barons season was the first season for this franchise in Cleveland, after nine seasons in the San Francisco Bay Area as the Oakland Seals/California Golden Seals. The Barons displaced the World Hockey Association's Cleveland Crusaders, who elected to relocate to Minnesota and become the Minnesota Fighting Saints.\n\nThe Barons played in the tough Adams Division and spent most of the season in last place. Midway through the season, majority owner Melvin Swig announced the team might have trouble finishing the season. The club missed payroll twice in February, and only a loan from the league and NHLPA kept the team afloat. Following the season, minority owner George Gund III purchased a controlling interest in the club.\n\nThe franchise participated in the 1976 Amateur Draft as the California Golden Seals, the move to Cleveland not being approved until mid-July.\n\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalties in minutes\"\n\nDenotes player spent time with another team before joining Barons. Stats reflect time with the Barons only. Traded/released mid-season\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; TOI = Time on ice (minutes); W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GA = Goals against; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average\"\n\nDenotes player spent time with another team before joining Seals. Stats reflect time with the Seals only. Traded mid-season\n\nThe Barons were involved in the following transactions during the 1976–77 season:\n\n"}
{"id": "23896793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23896793", "title": "1976–77 UAE Football League", "text": "1976–77 UAE Football League\n\nStatistics of UAE Football League in season 1976/77.\n\nAl Ain FC won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "38076737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38076737", "title": "1978 Mr. Olympia", "text": "1978 Mr. Olympia\n\nThe 1978 Mr. Olympia contest was an IFBB professional bodybuilding competition held in September, 1978 at Veterans Memorial Auditorium in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nThe total prize money awarded was $26,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17437553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17437553", "title": "19 Eylül Stadium", "text": "19 Eylül Stadium\n\nThe 19 Eylül Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Ordu, Turkey. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Orduspor. The stadium holds 11,024 people and was built in 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "32582277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32582277", "title": "Arsin Arena", "text": "Arsin Arena\n\nArsin Arena () is an indoor volleyball venue located in Arsin town of Trabzon Province, Turkey. Built in 2010, the arena has a capacity of 500 spectators.\n\nVolleyball matches for girls were played at this arena during the 2011 European Youth Summer Olympic Festival.\n"}
{"id": "99030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99030", "title": "Bass fishing", "text": "Bass fishing\n\nBass fishing is the activity of angling for the North American gamefish known colloquially as the \"black bass\". There are numerous black bass species considered as gamefish in North America, including largemouth bass (\"Micropterus salmoides\"), smallmouth bass (\"Micropterus dolomieui\"), spotted bass or Kentucky bass (\"Micropterus punctulatus\"), and Guadalupe bass (order \"Perciformes\"). Black bass are members of the sunfish (Centrarchidae) family. \n\nModern bass fishing has evolved into a multibillion-dollar industry. The sport has changed drastically since its beginnings in the late 19th century. From humble beginnings, the black bass has become the most specifically sought-after game fish in the United States. The sport has driven the development of all manner of fishing gear, including rods, reels, lines, lures, electronic depth and fish-finding instruments, drift boats, float tubes, kayaks, and also boats specified for bass fishing.\n\nAll black bass are well known as strong fighters and are fished recreationally. Depending upon species and various other factors such as water quality and availability of food, black bass may be found in lakes, reservoirs, ponds, rivers, streams, creeks, even roadside ditches. Largemouth are known for their greater overall size and resistance when hooked, favoring short, powerful runs and escape to cover such as submerged logs or weedbeds, while smallmouth bass tend to jump more and fight aggressively on the surface when hooked, in order to throw the hook. The All-Tackle world record Largemouth was caught on June 2nd, 1932, on Montgomery Lake, GA by George Perry, weighing in at 22 lbs. 4 oz. George Perry’s record fish, which some consider the “Holy Grail” of all freshwater sport fishing records, was finally challenged by Japanese angler Manabu Kurita on July 22nd, 2009. Kurita’s catch was officially certified by the IGFA, weighing 22 lbs. 4 oz, the same weight as Perry’s legendary catch. Both Perry and Kurita share the All-Take world record. \n\nAll black bass are scent as well as visual predators so care should be taken to ensure no foreign scents, like bug spray, or any outdoor chemicals, or any personal chemicals, like tobacco, contaminate one's hands when handling your line, reels, rods, artificial baits, and particularly soft plastics. Bass are usually filleted when taken for the table; the flesh is white and flaky, with a mild taste when cooked. However, both avid and professional bass fisherman often prefer to practice catch and release as a method of conservation.\n\nBass fishing in the United States largely evolved on its own, and was not influenced by angling developments in Europe or other parts of the world. Indeed, modern British sea bass fishermen look to the United States freshwater bass techniques for inspiration for lure fishing and to the USA, Japan and China for tackle. During the early-to-mid-19th century, wealthy sport anglers in the United States (mostly located in the northeastern portion of the country) largely confined themselves to trout and salmon fishing using fly rods. While smallmouth bass were sought by some fly fishermen, most bass fishing was done by sustenance anglers using poles and live bait. The working-class heritage of bass fishing strongly influenced the sport and is manifested even today in its terminology, hobbyist literature, and media coverage.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, the first artificial lure used for bass was developed in the form of an artificial fly. At first, these artificial fly patterns were largely derivations of existing trout and salmon flies. As time went on, new fly patterns were specifically developed to fish for bass, as well as heavier spinner/fly lures that could be cast by the baitcasting and fixed-spool casting reels and rods available at the time. Floating wooden lures (plugs) or poppers of lightweight cork or balsa were introduced around 1900, sometimes combined with hooks dressed with artificial fur or feathers. Production of the plastic worm began in 1949, but it was not until the 1960s that its use became popular. The plastic worm revolutionized the sport of bass fishing.\n\nIn the United States, the sport of bass fishing was greatly advanced by the stocking of largemouth and smallmouth bass outside their native ranges in the latter portion of the 19th century. As the nation's railroad system expanded, large numbers of 'tank' ponds were built by damming various small creeks that intersected the tracks in order to provide water for steam engines; later, new towns often sprang up alongside these water stops. Shippers found that black bass were a hardy species that could be transported in buckets or barrels via the railroad, sometimes using the spigot from the railroad water tank to aerate the fingerlings.\nLargemouth bass were often stocked in tank ponds and warmer lakes, while smallmouth bass were distributed to lakes and rivers throughout the northern and western United States, as far west as California. Smallmouth were transplanted east of the Appalachians just before the Civil War, and afterwards introduced into New England.\n\nLargemouth bass populations boomed after the U.S. Department of Agriculture began to advise and assist farmers in constructing and stocking farm ponds with largemouth bass, even offering advice on managing various fish species. Soon, those who had stocked largemouth bass on their farm ponds began to pursue them on a burgeoning number of new reservoirs and impoundments built in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s. These impoundments coincided with a postwar fishing boom, additional funds from sales of fishing licenses for the first large-scale attempts at bass fisheries management. This was especially true in the southern United States, where the largemouth bass thrived in waters too warm or turbid for other types of gamefish.\n\nWith increased industrialization and development, many of the nation's eastern trout rivers were dammed, polluted, or allowed to silt up, raising water temperatures and killing off the native brook trout. Smallmouth bass were often introduced to northern rivers now too warm for native trout, and slowly became a popular gamefish with many anglers. Equally adaptable to large, cool-water impoundments and reservoirs, the smallmouth also spread far beyond its original native range. Later, smallmouth populations also began to decline after years of damage caused by overdevelopment and industrial and agricultural pollution, as well as a loss of river habitat caused by damming many formerly wild rivers in order to form lakes or reservoirs. In recent years, a renewed emphasis on preserving water quality and riparian habitat in the nation's rivers and lakes, together with stricter management practices, eventually benefited smallmouth populations and has caused a resurgence in their popularity with anglers.\n\nBy the early 20th century, bass fishing had been well established as a sport with its own following. Though the use of artificial lures for bass had begun with the artificial fly and fly fishing tackle, the bait casting rod and reel soon came to dominate the sport. Although fixed-spool reels were introduced in use in the United States as early as the 1870s, spinning reels and rods did not gain wide acceptance as an angling tool until the 1950s. Since that time, most bass anglers have used bait casting or spinning tackle, using either artificial lures or live bait (See Fishing rod, Fishing reel).\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, the development of specific angling tools for bass significantly increased angler bass catches and helped stimulate the development of the sport. Some of these innovations include the invention of monofilament nylon fishing lines, the fiberglass (later graphite composite) fishing rod, the electric trolling motor, the fish finder/depth locator, and new artificial lures and baits made of various plastics. Recently, advanced electronics that mimic the sounds of schooling bait fish have been introduced, and a controversy has arisen over the proper use of these devices in bass tournament fishing.\n\nSince the early 1990s, fly fishing for bass, particularly smallmouth bass, has again become popular, using fly patterns, rods, and fly lines suited for bass. The Largemouth Bass is the most common sport fish in America. Many people are unaware that fly fishing is a growing source of bass catching, specifically in places where trophy bass are available such as Southern California and San Diego. Here prime Florida largemouth are some of the largest in the world and some of the toughest to catch. Several well known bass fishermen have been attracting attention to the fishery. Local fly shops offer services to pursue the fish which can be challenging. There are several very well known bass lakes here including; Lake Dixon, Lake Jennings, Miramar Reservoir, and Lake Murray (California).\n\nFishermen, conservation groups, and governmental wildlife departments have introduced black bass of various species across the world for the sport of fishing. Outside North America, Japan and South Africa have active programs.\nBass fishing as a sport was helped along by the chase for the standing world record which has held for over 75 years. Though surrounded by controversy it is widely accepted that in 1932 a 22 pound 4 ounce bass was caught by George Perry in Montgomery Lake, Georgia. It is one of the longest standing records in the sport of fishing. This record was tied on July 2, 2009 when Aichi Japan resident Manabu Kurita caught a 22 pound 4 ounce largemouth bass in Lake Biwa.\n\nThe increasing popularity of the sport combined with \"catch and release\" practices have in some cases led to an overpopulation of bass.\n\nAn overpopulated, stunted bass population can best be detected in the spring when all the bass are at least one year old. If virtually all the bass are 4 inches long or smaller, the population is probably stunted. Some indicators that a bass population is overpopulated:\n\n\nAn overpopulation and/or stunting of bass may be caused by several factors including:\n\n\nIt is posited that the easiest way to control an overpopulation of largemouth bass is by increasing the take of bass. This is clearly an effective method of thinning the bass population providing recreation at the same time. It may take two to three years to bring the population back into balance. If forage fish are scarce, stock adult bluegill or redear sunfish (7 to 8 inches long). These fish will be too large to be eaten by the bass. The large panfish will spawn in the spring and produce a supply\nof forage. \n\nBlack bass should not be confused with a multitude of unrelated fish species found around the world and called \"bass\", such as the butterfly peacock bass (\"Cichla ocellaris\"), speckled peacock bass (\"Cichla temensis\"), Papuan black bass (\"Lutjanus goldiei\") (also called Niugini bass), Australian bass, rock bass (\"Ambloplites rupestris\"), American striped bass, and British sea bass (\"Dicentrarchus labrax\").\n\nIn modern bass fishing competitions, caught bass are placed in a live well, and released as soon as caught and weighed by officials. Competitors are penalized heavily for dead fish and in some cases dead fish are not weighed. Fish turned in for weighing are immediately released or placed in tanks and treated for stress and glyco-protein (slime coat) injury, then released back into the water.\n\nThere are several major bass fishing competitions in the United States, with the two most dominant circuits being Bassmasters and the FLW series.\n\n\nThe state of Illinois was the first to make competitive bass fishing a state-sanctioned high school sport in 2009. They offer 22 sectional tournaments which cater to 250 high school teams across the state. Teams which qualify at the sectional level compete for the state title in May.\n\nStates across the country have taken to Illinois' lead. Kentucky was the second to follow suit in 2012. Private groups have seen the opportunity to grow the industry as well through exposure of high school student to tournament bass fishing. The Bass Federation, for example, offers high school tournament series in over 40 states, eventually crowning a State Champion and giving them the opportunity to compete on the national level.\n\nCompetitive collegiate bass fishing circuits in the United States include FLW College Fishing, the Bassmaster College Series, and Cabela's Collegiate Bass Fishing Series.\n\nThe FLW College Series includes three regional qualifiers in each of the five regions of the United States denoted by FLW. The top fifteen finishing teams in each of these regional qualifiers advance to the Regional Invitational tournament and have an opportunity to advance to the FLW College National Championship and fish for a place in the following year's Forrest L Woods Cup Professional Bass Tournament.\n\nSimilarly, the Bassmaster College Series divides the nation into 5 regions. They only offer one qualifying opportunity at the regional level as opposed to the three offered by the FLW College Series. The top 15 from each of the 5 regional qualifiers advance directly to the Bassmaster College Series National Champion and compete for a position in the following year's Bassmaster Classic.\n\nThe Cabelas Collegiate Bass Fishing Series is compiled of numerous tournaments accredited by the Association of Collegiate Anglers. The tournaments range in size from 20-30 boats all the way up to 100+ boats. The Cabelas Collegiate Bass Fishing Series compiles a ranking of \"School of the Year\" points, which are often coveted by schools across the country. These points are gathered through successful tournament finishes in tournaments recognized by the Association of Collegiate Anglers. Cabelas Collegiate Bass Fishing Series also hosts a large-scale national open. This is not the only one of its kind, as BoatUS also hosts a similar \"National Championship.\" Unlike the Bassmaster College Series and FLW College Series National Championships, these require no qualification from regional tournaments, and can be entered simply by signing up and paying the entry fee.\n\nThe Indiana University was the first to establish a tournament fishing club in 1989, with Purdue University creating one soon afterwards. The University of Illinois was third to make a tournament bass fishing student organization, and the trend has grown tremendously ever since.\n\nCompetitive bass fishing has also spread to anglers in other countries such as Japan, Korea, Italy, Australia and South Africa. Takahiro Omori, a Japanese angler living in Texas, won the 2004 Bassmaster Classic title. Australian tournaments are based on a native freshwater fish called Australian bass that is unrelated to largemouth bass.\n\nWith the rise in popularity of competitive bass fishing came the multibillion-dollar industry of professional bass angling. The rise in popularity and the companies that have supported the sport have now made it possible to turn bass angling into a professional sport. A professional bass angler is a person who competes in bass fishing pro circuit and may also have company sponsorships. Some famous pro circuits include Bass Anglers Sportsman Society (BASS), Walmart FLW Tour, and the Professional Anglers Association Tour (PAA).\n\nProfessional bass anglers are not able to simply sign up for these professional circuits. The angler must compete and win local and smaller events to in order create a reputation. Many professional bass anglers also get company sponsorships. These sponsorships help fund the expenses of being a bass angler. In turn the angler is also promoting the company that they are sponsored by. Being a professional bass angler is a full-time job. When the angler is not competing it is essential to attend public seminars and give presentations. It is the anglers job to market himself in order for the sponsors to become a more well known company.\n\nSome of the most famous names in professional bass angling are Ray Scott, Kevin VanDam, and Mike Iaconelli. Ray Scott is the founder of Bass Anglers Sportsman Society, otherwise known as BASS. Ray Scott started BASS in 1967 and has paved the way for professional circuits by starting the BASS Tournament Trail. Kevin VanDam is a professional competition angler who has won the BASSMASTER Classic four times. He also gained great fame by being named Angler of the Year in 1992. Mike Iaconelli is a professional competition angler in the BASS Elite Series, who has made a name for himself by winning BASSMASTER Classic and the Toyota Elite Series AOY\n\nProfessional bass angling salaries fluctuate greatly depending on how marketable the angler is, in 2006 Kevin VanDam made $500,000 from his sponsors while Mike Iaconelli made $370,000. This does not include the prize money from winning competitions. Although there are some professionals that earn this much money, it is not the case for all of them. Gene Ellison the executive director of the Professional Anglers Association is quoted saying, \"more than half of the guys out here this weekend are going broke\", during the BASSMASTER Classic of 2006.\n\nIn recent years the sport has not only reached out to men but to women as well. There is a large following of women bass fishing who are trying to become professional and have their own women circuit. The Lady Bass Anglers Association was started for just that purpose. They aspire to create an industry in which women are able to compete professionally and help push the boundaries of professional bass angling.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51066022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51066022", "title": "CS Măgura Cisnădie", "text": "CS Măgura Cisnădie\n\nCS Măgura Cisnădie is a professional women's handball club in Cisnădie, Sibiu County, Romania, that competes in the Liga Naţională since 2015. \n\nLiga Națională (\"National League of Romania\") \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4390725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4390725", "title": "Chile at the 2006 Winter Paralympics", "text": "Chile at the 2006 Winter Paralympics\n\nChile participated in the ninth Winter Paralympics in Turin, Italy. \n\nChile entered two athletes in the following sports:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1573783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1573783", "title": "DW Stadium", "text": "DW Stadium\n\nThe DW Stadium is a sports stadium in Wigan, Greater Manchester, England. The ground is owned and managed by Wigan Football Company Limited, which is 78% owned by Wigan Athletic and it is used by Wigan Athletic football club and Wigan Warriors rugby league club, the rugby league club having a 50 years lease on tenancy to play games at the stadium.\nBuilt and opened in 1999, it is named after its main sponsor, DW Sports Fitness. In UEFA matches, it is called Wigan Athletic Stadium due to UEFA regulations on sponsorship.\n\nThe stadium architect was Alfred McAlpine. Wigan Athletic and Wigan Warriors moved into it from their long-term homes of Springfield Park and Central Park respectively. International rugby league matches have also taken place at the venue.\n\nIts current capacity is 25,138—seated in four single-tier stands—and its record attendance was on 11 May 2008 when 25,133 people watched Wigan Athletic play Manchester United in the title-deciding match of the 2007–08 Premier League season.\n\nThe stadium was designed by Alfred McAlpine and completed in August 1999. \n\nWigan Athletic had spent the previous 67 years playing at Springfield Park, and their first match at the stadium was a friendly against Morecambe, just before the stadium's official opening.\n\nThe stadium's inauguration was marked with a friendly between Wigan Athletic and neighbours Manchester United — who were then reigning European champions, Premier League title and FA Cup holders — with United's manager Sir Alex Ferguson officially opening the stadium.\n\nThe first competitive football match there took place on 7 August 1999, with Wigan Athletic facing Scunthorpe United in a Second Division match. Simon Haworth scored twice, including the first competitive goal at the new stadium, as Athletic triumphed 3–0.\n\nWigan Warriors moved to the stadium a month after it opened, once they had played their final home game of the 1999 regular season at Central Park, which had been the club's home since 1902. After their former ground was sold, the possibility of ground sharing with Bolton Wanderers F.C. at the Reebok Stadium (now University of Bolton Stadium) was presented, but the new stadium in Wigan was chosen instead. Their first game there was a play-off match against Castleford Tigers, which they lost, on 19 September. The Warriors did not lose a competitive match at the stadium in 2001.\n\nThe first away team to win a competitive football match at the stadium was Wigan Athletic. A first round FA Cup tie against non-league Cambridge City was played there due to City's ground being deemed unsuitable to host the tie. Wigan played in their changed strip and used the away dressing room since it was technically a 'home' game for Cambridge City. A Stuart Barlow brace secured the win for Wigan.\nWigan subsequently lost at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers in the third round of the FA Cup on 11 December 1999. Oldham Athletic became the first team to beat Wigan in a league fixture at the JJB on 7 January 2000. The game was shown live on sky sports and finished 1–0 thanks to an 86th-minute header from Lee Duxbury.\n\nWhilst Wigan Warriors and Wigan Athletic flourished in the new stadium (Wigan Athletic in particular would achieve significant success, rising up the English football pyramid to the Premier League by 2005), Orrell R.U.F.C. did not. Dave Whelan and Maurice Lindsay decided to invest heavily in the club, with the aim of having the club play in rugby union's Guinness Premiership at the stadium. After failing to win 2004's National Division Two, Whelan pulled a large amount of investment from the club, to a more modest GB£30,000 a year. This was the beginning of Orrell's demise, as players left during the summer of that year and the club were consequently relegated the season after. Ownership eventually passed from Lindsay back to the club's members, but by this point, Orrell had sold their former Edge Hall Road ground to Dave Whelan's company, Whelco Holdings, and therefore had no assets apart from their rebuilt clubhouse following a fire in 2002. Orrell never settled at the JJB Stadium, and were eventually de-professionalised at the end of the 2006–07 season.\n\nOn 7 March 2005, Greater Manchester police announced that they would stop policing Wigan Athletic matches at the stadium from 2 April. This move would almost certainly have resulted in the stadium's safety certificate being revoked, effectively forcing the team to play behind closed doors. The move was part of an ongoing dispute between the police force and Dave Whelan surrounding GB£300,000 in unpaid policing costs. The police's decision would not have affected Wigan Warriors, whose games are stewarded instead of policed. The situation was temporarily resolved on 8 March with both sides reaching an agreement that would allow Athletic to play at the ground until the end of the season. Four months later, Wigan Athletic, facing the prospect of playing their home games in the Premier League in an empty stadium, grudgingly paid the money they owed to the police. The club successfully appealed against the payments in court and won damages from the police.\n\nOn 7 September 2008, Wigan Warriors revealed plans to take their Super League Play-Off against Bradford Bulls to a neutral venue. The controversial relocation was forced due to a fixture clash, with a match between football clubs Wigan Athletic and Sunderland to take place less than 24 hours after the Super League match. Whelan, who controlled Wigan Athletic, refused permission for the Warriors to stage their elimination at the stadium, citing concerns over the playing surface. The game was relocated to Widnes Vikings home ground, the Stobart Stadium. In the same season, JJB Sports announced they would not continue to sponsor Wigan Warriors, leaving them without a main shirt sponsor.\n\nThe stadium's average attendance has increased significantly since its opening in 1999. The Wigan Warriors' average attendance has increased by 32.5% from its first full season at the stadium in 2000, and Wigan Athletic's average attendance has increased by 181.2% from the 2000–01 season. The highest recorded attendance for a rugby league match is shared between three fixtures; the Wigan Warriors' fixture against St Helens R.F.C. on 25 March 2005; Game 4 of the 2005 Tri-Nations series between Great Britain and Australia on 6 November; and Game 5 of the 2004 Tri-Nations series between Great Britain and Australia on 13 November at 25,004 each. The highest recorded football attendance at the stadium was Wigan Athletic's home fixture against Manchester United on 11 May 2008—the final day of the 2007–08 Premier League season—with 25,133 fans attending. This is the stadium's highest recorded overall attendance to date, and was the match where Manchester United were crowned Premier League champions for that season.\nIn March 2009, Dave Whelan acquired a chain of fitness clubs from JJB Sports. In the process, Whelan used the business to set up a new venture, DWSportsfitness and announced that the stadium name would change to the \"DW Stadium\" in August. Whelan also announced that at the same time the stadium was renamed, its ownership would pass from himself to Wigan Athletic. Concerns about the future of Wigan Warriors were arrested in the same announcement, as Whelan extended the lease on the stadium by 50 years for the rugby league team. Before their match against Leeds Rhinos in July 2009, both clubs were given the opportunity to rename one stand, with the intention of renaming them in honour to a recognised player from each club's history. The rugby league club were granted the East Stand, which they renamed 'The Boston Stand' in tribute to the Welsh winger Billy Boston, As Wigan Athletic had spent many years in the lower leagues it was recognised that most of their players were not known, so the West Stand was renamed 'The Springfield Stand' after the club's former ground.\n\nThe stadium design is based on cantilevered, prefabricated steel roof and terrace structuring. It is an all-seater arena with a seating capacity of 24,826. The stands are rectangular and both the northern and southern stands have supporting steel girders suspended from beneath the roof. The four stands are of approximately the same height, however the stadium is not totally enclosed, leaving four exposed corners.\n\nAt both Wigan Athletic and Wigan Warriors matches, away supporters are situated in the North Stand behind the goal. Occasionally, during rugby games which attract low away support, the 5,418 capacity North Stand is closed altogether, and the away fans who attend are put into an alternative stand. The eastern stand, known as 'The Boston Stand', and the western 'Springfield Stand' run across the longer sides of the pitch. The Boston Stand is the largest, capable of seating up to 8,238 fans and holding an electronic scoreboard. The Springfield Stand contains the stadium's vital facilities; four dressing rooms, benches, a doping control room and a treatment room for the players, as well as four executive boxes, ten radio commentary points and a designated TV studio, in addition to holding 6,100 fans. The North Stand and South Stand have a seating capacity of 5,418 and 5,412 respectively. The stadium also has facilities and access for up to 278 fans with disabilities, with facilities for partially sighted fans. The seats are a mixture of both resident teams' main colours — cherry red and blue. The stadium is fully compliant with safety guidelines for a sports ground.\n\nThe pitch is large enough to conform with both FIFA and the standard rugby league requirements, at . This leaves an in-goal area just deep for rugby matches. It is mostly made of natural grass, with 2% of the pitch composed of synthetics to provide stability. The ground has irrigation, and an under-heating system to resist icy weather.\n\nWigan Warriors moved from Central Park to the stadium in 1999 after the end of Super League IV's regular season. Since moving to the new stadium, Wigan Warriors' success in rugby league has not been as high as it was at their old Central Park ground, however the good times do seem to be back for the club after they won the Super League Grand Final and League Leaders shield in 2010 under the guidance of coach Michael Maguire and chairman Ian Lenagan.\n\nAttendances have generally risen for the Wigan Warriors since the start of the 2002 season, averaging around 14,000 over the three seasons from 2006 to 2009. Aside from Grand Finals, the largest Super League attendance was recorded at the stadium in 2005 when Wigan Warriors played their local rivals, St Helens R.F.C..\n\nThis match is also the highest home attendance in the Wigan Warriors' history at the stadium. The twenty thousand mark has been broken ten times since moving to the new stadium in 1999—eight times against St Helens RLFC, once against local rivals Warrington Wolves in the opening round of the 2008 Super League XIII season, and once in July 2009 against the Leeds Rhinos following a campaign advertising the game as the 'Big One'. In 2010, the Warriors were officially the biggest supported team in the Super League.\n\nWigan Athletic's success has improved considerably since their move to the stadium from Springfield Park in 1999. The club subsequently climbed up two divisions to play in the Premier League from 2005 until 2013.\n\nRising success on the pitch has been met with increased attendances. Promotion into the Premier League meant that in their first season of English top-flight football, Wigan Athletic's average home attendance almost doubled from the season before. Over three times more fans attended matches at the stadium during Wigan's 2007–08 season in the Premier League than had attended in the 2001–02 season when Wigan Athletic were in the Football League Second Division. Wigan Athletic's average home attendance for 2007–08 was the lowest out of all 20 teams in the Premier League, failing to make the top 30 English clubs in terms of attendance. The same season saw the highest ever attendance at the stadium, when 25,133 people witnessed Wigan play Manchester United on the final day of the season.\n\nWigan Athletic's average attendance was again the lowest in the league for the Premier League 2008–09 season. Premier League attendances fell on average by around 426 per club during the 2008–09 season. Wigan Athletic's home attendance fell by more than this, with their average attendance for the 2008–09 season falling by 633 from the season before. The highest attendance at the stadium for this season was a match between Wigan Athletic and Arsenal F.C., in which 22,954 people were counted. This attendance was 2,357 fans lower than the highest attendance in the season before.\n\nAs well as the fixtures for the two domestic teams, the stadium is a venue for international rugby league. Since the stadium's construction in 1999, it has been an ever-present venue whenever International series have been played in England.\n\nIts first involvement came during the 2004 series, where the home Great Britain and Ireland national team defeated the Australians 24–12, with Terry Newton and Andy Farrell both scoring in their home town of Wigan. The venue was again selected for the 2005 series, and again the match was between Great Britain and Australia—this time the home team lost 6–20—with Greater Manchester born Adrian Morley scoring Great Britain's solitary try. Both matches were complete sell-outs, each having attendances above 25,000. The match in 2004 was the third highest attendance of the series, coming behind a match at the City of Manchester Stadium between Great Britain and Australia, and the series final between the same two teams at Elland Road.\n\nIn addition to the Tri-Nations, the stadium has also played host to visiting nations during their European tours. Australia played Great Britain in front of a sell-out crowd during the 2001 Kangaroo tour, with the home side losing 8–28. Australia narrowly defeated Great Britain again in 2003 at the stadium, winning by a margin of four points during their 2003 European Tour. New Zealand have also played at the stadium during their tours. In 2002, a try scored in his home town by Martin Gleeson helped Great Britain to defeat the 'Kiwis' 16–10. The visitors lost again during their 2007 tour, this time 28–22 in a closely fought game in which Wigan-born second-rower Sean O'Loughlin featured.\n\nThe stadium has hosted the World Club Challenge four times, in 2000, between St. Helens and the Melbourne Storm in 2011 when Wigan took on St. George Illawarra Dragons. and in 2015 and 2016 when Wigan Warriors hosted the Brisbane Brochos.\n\nSince its opening in 1999, it hosted six Great Britain internationals.\nSince the Great Britain national rugby league team has split into individual home nations, it has hosted three England internationals.\n\nThe stadium's surroundings are mostly urban, as it is located in the north of Wigan's Robin Park retail complex in the western suburb of Newtown, on the south bank of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal, west of the Miry Lane industrial estate. The stadium's car parks are situated around the canal, and can hold up to 2,500 cars.\n\nNext to the stadium's South Stand lies the Robin Park Arena, which is operated by Wigan Sports Development Unit and is capable of seating 1,000 spectators. The arena is mainly used for athletics, as well as functions for: North West Counties Football League side Wigan Robin Park, and Wigan Athletic Reserves. The arena was formerly used by the Wigan Warriors' junior academy, before they moved to Edge Hall Road to join the reserve side. Robin Park Sports Centre is situated directly opposite the Stadium and Arena.\n\nThe main road serving the complex is the A49, running west-bound south of the stadium. Both of Wigan's railway stations, Wigan Wallgate and Wigan North Western lie east of the stadium.\n\n\nWigan Warriors played one match in 1999 at the new stadium after moving from their former Central Park ground—an elimination play-off match against the Castleford Tigers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2628306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628306", "title": "Dartford Cricket Club", "text": "Dartford Cricket Club\n\nDartford Cricket Club is one of the oldest cricket clubs in England with origins which date from the early 18th century, perhaps earlier. The earliest known match involving a team from Dartford took place in 1722, against London, but the club's own website says it was formally established in 1727. The club is extant and now plays in the Kent Cricket League.\n\nDartford players were reckoned by Robert Harley, Earl of Oxford, writing in his diary in 1723, to \"lay claim to the greatest excellence\" among English cricketers. The club played a number of big matches against London and, in 1756, they were involved in a tri-series against the sport's rising power, the Hambledon Club.\n\nDartford produced several famous players in the 18th century including cricket's earliest known great player William Bedle. Later players included William Hodsoll, John Bell, John Frame and Ned Wenman.\n\nThe club originally used Dartford Brent, an area of common land, as its ground. By the end of the 18th century it had moved to Bowman's Lodge on Dartford Heath before its current ground at Hesketh Park was established in 1905. In 2002 the club merged with Dartford Halls Cricket Club, retaining the name Dartford Cricket Club for its First XI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7854197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7854197", "title": "Deportivo Masatepe", "text": "Deportivo Masatepe\n\nDeportivo Masatepe is a Nicaraguan football team.\n\nBased in Masatepe, they finally opened their own stadium in summer 2008 after having staged home games in the Estadio Olímpico de San Marcos and Estadio Cacique Diriangén in the seasons before.\n\nThey played their last season in the Nicaraguan Premier Division in the 2008/09 season after winning promotion in summer 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25922310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25922310", "title": "Doing a Leeds", "text": "Doing a Leeds\n\n\"Doing a Leeds\" is an English football phrase which has become synonymous with the potential dire consequences for domestic clubs of financial mismanagement, following the rapid decline in the 2000s of Leeds United F.C., a Premier League club that invested heavily to reach the semi-finals of the lucrative Champions League European competition, but in the process built up large debts. The club suffered a \"financial meltdown\" after failing to continue to qualify for the competition, and subsequently dropped down two levels of the football pyramid, into the third tier, Football League One, for the first time in their history.\n\nSince the creation of the Premier League, a total of 22 of its former clubs have been relegated to the third tier (League One), of which six fell down further into the fourth tier (Football League Two). Because they had never experienced relegation to League One or its predecessors until it actually happened in 2007, Leeds was the object of careful observation by media and derision by rival fans.\n\nAs champions of the final First Division season, Leeds United were one of the inaugural 22 clubs of the Premier League, the breakaway top division league competition formed in 1992. Leeds had sustained success in the league in late 1990s, and ultimately reached the semi-finals of the 2000–01 Champions League. Their level of spending to do so however had exceeded all other clubs, and the club's debt level rose annually from £9m to £21m, £39m, £82m and peaked at around £119m, much of the money having been spent on transfer fees and players' wages. After the club failed to qualify for the 2002–03 Champions League by only finishing fifth in the Premier League, it had to make drastic savings by selling players as it could no longer sustain the debt repayments, which relied on the ticket sales and television income from the European competition.\n\nAt the end of the 2003–04 FA Premier League season, Leeds United were relegated to the Football League Championship. The financial effects continued, and with one game to go in the 2006–07 season, the club voluntarily entered administration, incurring a 10-point league penalty, resulting in relegation to League One, the first time the club had ever been in the third tier of English football. Subsequent breaches of financial rules in the summer nearly resulted in the club being expelled from the Football League altogether (a fate which coincidentally had befallen the club's predecessors, Leeds City), but they were ultimately re-admitted with a 15-point penalty to apply to the 2007–08 season. Despite further appeals, the penalty stood and ultimately cost the club promotion that season. \n\nAt the end of the 2009–10 season, the club was promoted back to the Championship after a final day victory. They have been in the Championship ever since, coming closest to earning promotion back to the Premier League in the 2016–17 season, where the club under the management of Garry Monk narrowly missed out on a play-off spot, finishing 7th in the league and earning their highest points total in a Championship season throughout their most recent period of tenure in the division.\n\nLeeds United's decline was not entirely without historical precedent, as Wolverhampton Wanderers had suffered a similarly high-profile decline in the 1980s, finishing 6th in the old First Division and winning the Football League Cup in 1980, before eventually dropping into the old Fourth Division by 1986 on the back of three consecutive relegations. Bristol City had become the first league team to suffer three successive relegations when they went down to the Fourth Division in 1982, although their decline was less dramatic as that of Wolves, as they had spent just four seasons in the First Division and not been as successful or spent as much money on players.\n\nHowever, the decline of Wolverhampton Wanderers was widely seen as the culmination of decades of financial mismanagement rather than an extreme amount of short-term spending as was the case with Leeds. Wolves had paid a national record fee of nearly £1.5million to sign striker Andy Gray from Aston Villa in 1979, while spending an even greater sum of money of rebuilding one side of the ground to create a large all-seater stand at around the same time.\n\nContemporaneous to Leeds, Luton Town, who were relegated from the Championship alongside them in 2007, suffered an even more severe decline and underwent three consecutive relegations, ending up in the Football Conference by 2009; they too had been hit by financial problems. Luton had been in the top tier of English Football as recently as the 1991-92 season. They did not reclaim their league status for five seasons.\n\nSwansea City, who climbed from the Fourth Division to the First Division between 1978 and 1981, finished sixth in the 1981-82 season, having led the league several times that season. However, they were relegated a year later and went down again in 1984, suffering a third relegation in four seasons in 1986 after they had almost gone out of business.\n\nWimbledon, who matched Swansea's record of climbing three divisions in four seasons in 1986, survived in the top flight of English football for 14 years and won the FA Cup in 1988 before being relegated from the Premier League in 2000. They were relegated from Division One four years later, after which they were renamed Milton Keynes Dons following their relocation to Milton Keynes. The renamed club suffered yet another relegation to the league's fourth tier in 2006. It would have gone down the previous year had it not been for a 10-point deduction imposed on financially troubled Wrexham, whose financial situation nearly saw them expelled from the Football League.\n\nIn 1998, Manchester City's relegation to Division Two made them the second former winners of a European trophy to be relegated to the third tier of their domestic league (after 1974 Cup Winners Cup winners Magdeburg in 1991, though that had happened because the league system of the former East Germany had contributed with less clubs in proportion to the unified system after 1990; the English system by contrast remained the same); they had been European Cup Winners' Cup winners in 1970. City had faced constant struggles in the league since heavy spending on players in the late 1970s and early 1980s had failed to translate into silverware; they were relegated from the First Division twice during the 1980s, returning after two seasons on both occasions. Similar heavy spending on players in the early 1990s again failed to deliver silverware, and City went down from the FA Premier League at the end of its fourth season in 1996 after narrowly avoiding relegation in the previous two seasons. A second relegation took them down to Division Two in 1998, but this was followed by two consecutive promotions.\n\nIn 2005, Nottingham Forest became the first former winners of the European Cup (which they had won in 1979 and 1980) to be relegated to the third tier of their domestic league. Having also won a league title and four League Cups between 1978 and 1990, they had been relegated at the end of the first Premier League season in 1993, promoted back at the first attempt, gone down again in 1997 and achieved an instant return to the Premier League in 1998, only to be relegated a year later. They have not returned to the Premier League since their 1999 relegation, although they did climb out of the third tier (League One) after three seasons.\n\nIn 2004, Carlisle United became the first former members of the English top flight to be relegated from the Football League; their solitary season in the top flight was in the Football League First Division in the 1974-75 season, and they in fact led the English league after winning their opening three games of that league campaign. \n\nIn 2006, the 1986 Football League Cup winners Oxford United became the first former winners of a major trophy to be relegated from the Football League. They returned to the league four years later. Other clubs who have fallen from the old First Division to the National League include the aforementioned Luton Town, Grimsby Town and Leyton Orient.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, Sunderland were relegated twice in successive seasons (from the Premier League to the Championship and then to League One).\n\nThe term \"doing a Leeds\" or to \"do a Leeds\" has since become synonymous with financial mismanagement of a football club with potential dire consequences. It can refer specifically to any club that fails to plan adequately for the financial impact of either failure to qualify for the Champions League, or of not adequately restructuring following relegation from the Premier League to avoid a further drop, or more generally, to the rapid demise in the relative standing of any club.\n\nManagers and chairmen, although sometimes obliged to \"chase the dream\" (the inevitable precursor of \"doing a Leeds\"), are often forced to deny they are \"doing a Leeds\" in the wake of a large investment that some analysts predict cannot be afforded by their club and may overstretch their budget. Similarly, fans may fear their club will \"do a Leeds\" if its expensively acquired and maintained team is unable to qualify for the Champions League or is relegated from the Premier League, thereby failing to \"live the dream\".\n\nConversely, the avoidance of \"doing a Leeds\" has been invoked by managers to justify selling their best players in order to raise funds to stave off going into administration, which might lead to a relegation-inducing penalty. Failure to invest at the expected \"normal\" rate in order to maintain a particular club's league position can even be labelled as \"doing a Leeds\".\n\nThe phrase was notably used during the relegation of Newcastle United in 2009, one of the largest clubs to be relegated from the Premier League. Having bought the club, new owner Mike Ashley stated that his investment had in fact saved the club from \"doing a Leeds\". In spite of this Newcastle suffered relegation at the end of the 2008–09 season, sparking fears both before and after that the club could \"do a Leeds\" and drop further, into League One, without restructuring. However, the club avoided this and bounced back the following season with automatic first place promotion.\n\nThe 2010 announcement of Manchester United's need to refinance their large debt as a bond issue following their purchase by Malcolm Glazer led to questions in the media whether even Manchester United, as the most successful Premier League-era club, could be in danger of \"doing a Leeds\".\n\nShelbourne were referred to as the \"Irish version of Leeds United\" after winning the League of Ireland Premier Division in 2006 but being automatically demoted into the League of Ireland First Division for financial reasons.\n\nThe term has been applied to Portsmouth, who amassed debts which eventually saw them become the first Premier League club to enter administration in February of the 2009–10 season, leading to relegation in the same season after the subsequent nine-point penalty. Portsmouth were relegated to League One after the 2011–12 season of the Football League Championship, due to a 10-point deduction for entering administration; a near-identical scenario to what occurred to Leeds five years previously. They were again relegated after a 10-point deduction due to failing to pay footballing creditors, this time to League Two, in the 2012–13 season.\n\nBolton Wanderers are another team guilty of \"Doing a Leeds\", after enjoying a successful stint in the Premier League under Sam Allardyce, which culminated in qualifying for both the 2006–07 and 2007–08 UEFA Cup, reaching the last 16 in the latter, which included a draw and a victory against Atlético Madrid, and draws against Bayern Munich,and Sporting Lisbon. After Allardyce's departure, the club began a steady decline, with relegation battles being a regular feature. Owen Coyle led Bolton on a successful cup campaign of the 2010–11 FA Cup, reaching the semi-final stage where Stoke City despatched the Trotters 5–0. This began a rapid decline that ultimately led to relegation on the last day of the 2011–12 season. The club mounted a late charge for the playoffs in 2012–13 season, falling just short after a final day 2–2 draw to Blackpool at home. Since then, the club announced debts of £172.9m in 2015 and were relegated to League One in 2016.\n\nA similar phrase, \"Doing a Bradford\" was coined by former Blackburn Rovers player Simon Garner in 2012, a scenario that he was worried could befall his former club following their relegation from the Premier League. Garner was referring to Leeds's neighbours Bradford City, who were a Premier League club in 2001, but had fallen three divisions to League Two in 2007 and were not promoted back to League One until the end of the 2012–13 season; the only other former Premier League clubs to have fallen to League Two are Swindon Town (in 2006 and then 2011, and unlike Bradford they immediately gained promotion back to League One on both occasions), Portsmouth, Blackpool, Coventry City and Oldham Athletic.\n\nRalf Rangrick, sporting director of Red Bull Leipzig, compared in March 2017 the mismanagement of TSV 1860 Munich to that of Leeds United, drawing direct parallels between the ownership and resulting fan dissatisfaction at both clubs. The two clubs in fact met in a Champions League fixture in 2000, before both experiencing relegation from their respective top flight leagues in the following seasons. Neither club has returned to the highest division in their country since.\n\n"}
{"id": "7697971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697971", "title": "Dub Farris Athletic Complex", "text": "Dub Farris Athletic Complex\n\nThe Dub Farris Athletic Complex is a sporting complex with the Dub Farris Stadium owned by the Northside ISD located in San Antonio, Texas.\n\nThe complex is known for its 10,568-seat football & soccer stadium but it is also home to a large natatorium. In 2010, NISD announced a three-year agreement that allowed the UTSA Roadrunners football team to use the stadium for practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "753419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753419", "title": "Exhibition Stadium", "text": "Exhibition Stadium\n\nCanadian National Exhibition Stadium (commonly known as Exhibition Stadium and CNE Stadium) was a multi-purpose stadium that formerly stood on the Exhibition Place grounds, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Originally built for Canadian National Exhibition events, the stadium served as the home of the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League, from 1959–1988, the Toronto Blue Jays of Major League Baseball from 1977–1989, and the Toronto Blizzard of the North American Soccer League from 1979–1983. The stadium hosted the Grey Cup game 12 times over a 24-year period.\n\nIn 1999, the stadium was demolished and the site was used for parking until 2006. BMO Field was built on the site in 2007 roughly where the northern end of the covered grandstand once stood.\n\nThe grandstand (known as CNE Grandstand) was used extensively throughout the summer months for hosting concerts.\n\nExhibition Stadium was the fourth stadium to be built on its site since 1879. When the original grandstand was lost due to a fire in 1906, it was quickly rebuilt. A second fire destroyed the stadium in 1947, which led to the city constructing a covered north-side grandstand (known as CNE Grandstand) for in 1948. This part of the stadium's structure stayed even as the stadium underwent various changes until its 1999 closure.\n\nMany rock concerts were also held at the stadium, both the grandstand and the whole stadium were used for popular rock acts such as The Who, U2, New Order, Depeche Mode, Rush, Van Halen, Kim Mitchell, Bruce Springsteen, Bon Jovi, and AC/DC.\n\nWhen the Toronto Argonauts moved from Varsity Stadium for the 1959 season, a smaller bleacher section was added along the south sideline. In this form the stadium seated 33,150.\n\nThe inaugural game at the renovated Exhibition Stadium was an exhibition interleague game between the hometown Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League (CFL) and the Chicago Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL) on August 5, 1959. The game was the first time a NFL team played in Toronto. It was also the first NFL–CFL exhibition match held since the establishment of the CFL in 1958, and marked the beginning of a three-year, four game exhibition series between the leagues.\n\nWhen the 58th Grey Cup was played at the stadium in 1970, Calgary Stampeders coach Jim Duncan described the condition of the natural-grass surface as \"a disgrace.\" In January 1972, Metropolitan Toronto Council voted 15–9 to spend $625,000 to install artificial turf. The vote passed despite five councillors changing their vote to oppose the motion, because the cost had increased from a previous estimate of $400,000. Two months later, contracts totaling were approved to install the AstroTurf, with work to be completed by June, in time for the start of the Toronto Argonauts' 1972 season.\n\nIn 1974, in a bid to acquire a Major League Baseball team, the city voted to reconfigure the stadium to make it compatible for baseball, leading to the arrival of Major League Baseball in Toronto in 1977 in the form of the Toronto Blue Jays (however, the initial plan for an MLB team called for the San Francisco Giants to move to Toronto; the proposed move fell through).\n\nOriginally planned to cost before growing to , the renovations, which were funded by the city and province, added seating opposite to the covered grandstand on the first base side and curving around to the third base side. Football capacity was increased from 33,000 to 55,000. Although the stadium was expanded to accommodate baseball, the new seats were first used for football and allowed the 64th Grey Cup in November 1976 to be watched by a then-Grey Cup record crowd of 53,467. For baseball, the stadium originally seated 38,522, however by the Blue Jays' second season this increased to 43,739, although, only about 33,000 seats were usually made available (see below).\n\nEven in its new form, Exhibition Stadium was problematic for hosting both baseball and football. Blue Jays' President Paul Beeston noted Exhibition Stadium \"wasn't just the worst stadium in baseball, it was the worst stadium in sports.\"\n\nLike most multi-purpose stadiums, the lower boxes were set further back than comparable seats at baseball-only stadiums to accommodate the wider football field. Compared to U.S. stadiums, this was magnified by the fact Canadian football fields are almost 34% larger than American football fields.\nMany of the seats down the right-field line and in right-centre were extremely far from the infield; they actually faced each other rather than the action. Some seats were as far as from home plate — the greatest such distance of any stadium ever used as a principal home field in the major leagues. These seats were rarely sold, except when necessitated by demand during the 1985 pennant race and playoffs, and again in the 1987 pennant race. \nAs the original grandstand was used for the outfield seats, these were the cheapest seats but were the only ones which offered some protection from the elements; the Blue Jays were the only MLB team using a stadium with such a configuration.\n\nBecause the full length of the third-base line had to be fitted between the north stand (the original grandstand) and the new south stand, they could no longer be parallel to each other. As a compromise between placements suitable for the two stands, the football field was rotated anticlockwise away from the north stand. Thus, the only seats as close to the field as before were those near the eastern end zone, and no seats had as good a view of the whole field as the centre-field seats before the conversion.\n\nAlthough the Argonauts recorded average attendances of above 40,000 fans per game in the first few seasons following the stadium's expansion, by the mid-1980s average attendance had fallen to less than 30,000 fans per game.\n\nBeing situated relatively close to Lake Ontario, the stadium was often quite cold at the beginning and end of the baseball season (and the end of the football season). The first Blue Jays game played there on April 7, 1977 was the only major league game ever played with the field covered entirely by snow. The Blue Jays had to borrow Maple Leaf Gardens' Zamboni to clear off the field. Conditions at the stadium led to another odd incident that first year. On September 15, Baltimore Orioles manager Earl Weaver pulled his team off the field because he felt the bricks holding down the bullpen tarps were a hazard to his players. This garnered a win by forfeit for the Jays – the only time in major league baseball history since 1914 that a team deliberately forfeited a game (as opposed to having an umpire call a forfeiture).\n\nAn April 30, 1984 game against the Texas Rangers was postponed due to winds. Before the game, Rangers manager Doug Rader named Jim Bibby as his starting pitcher, stating \"he's the heaviest man in the world, and thus will be unaffected by the wind.\" However, Bibby would never make it to the mound. Two Rangers batters complained about dirt swirling in their eyes, and Blue Jays starting pitcher Jim Clancy was blown off balance several times. The umpires stopped the game after only six pitches. After a 30-minute delay, the game was called off.\n\nThe stadium also occasionally had problems with fog, once causing a bizarre inside-the-park home run for Kelly Gruber, when an otherwise routine pop up was lost by the outfielders in the thick fog.\n\nDue to its position next to the lake, and the food disposed by baseball and football fans, the stadium was a popular feeding ground for seagulls. New York Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield was arrested on August 4, 1983 for killing a seagull with a baseball. Winfield had just finished his warm-up exercises in the 5th inning and threw a ball to the ball boy, striking a seagull in the head. The seagull died, and some claimed that Winfield hit the bird on purpose, which prompted Yankees manager Billy Martin to state \"They wouldn't say that if they'd seen the throws he'd been making all year. It's the first time he's hit the cutoff man\". The charges were later dropped. Winfield would later play for the Blue Jays, winning a World Series with the club in 1992.\n\nExhibition Stadium's fate was sealed during the 70th Grey Cup in 1982, popularly known as \"the Rain Bowl\" because it was played in a driving rainstorm that left most of the crowd drenched. Many of the seats were completely exposed to the elements, forcing thousands of fans to watch the game in the concession section. To make matters worse, the washrooms overflowed. In attendance that day was then-Ontario Premier Bill Davis, and the poor conditions were seen by over 7,862,000 television viewers in Canada (at the time the largest TV audience ever in Canada). The following day, at a rally at Toronto City Hall, tens of thousands of people who were there to see the Toronto Argonauts began to chant, \"We want a dome! We want a dome!\" So too did others who began to discuss the possibility of an all-purpose, all-weather stadium.\n\nSeven months later, in June 1983, Premier Davis formally announced that a three-person committee would look into the feasibility of building a domed stadium at Exhibition Place. The committee consisted of Paul Godfrey, Larry Grossman and former Ontario Hydro chairman Hugh Macaulay. That same year, the city also studied a number of potential sites for the new domed stadium, and in April 1984, CN agreed to donate seven acres of land near the CN Tower for the stadium; groundbreaking began in October 1986, and the stadium, which would take on the name SkyDome (now Rogers Centre), opened in June 1989.\n\nExhibition Stadium lay mostly dormant over the decade following the opening of SkyDome, except for the occasional concert or minor sporting event. The World Wrestling Federation (now WWE), needing a new venue after a decision to discontinue events at Maple Leaf Gardens in 1995, held one card at the stadium on August 24, 1996 for a crowd of 21,211. The main event was Shawn Michaels vs. Goldust in a ladder match.\n\nThe stadium was demolished in 1999 and the site is now the location of BMO Field and a parking lot. A few chairs from the stadium can be found on the southeast corner just north of the bridge to Ontario Place's main entrance. As is common with stadium demolitions, a number of the remaining seats were sold to fans and collectors.\n\nAlthough not widely used while the stadium was in operation (given the well known references to Cleveland's Municipal Stadium), the term \"Mistake by the Lake\" has been used more recently in reflection by Toronto media to refer to the now-demolished venue.\n\nOn October 26, 2005, the City of Toronto approved to build BMO Field, a new 20,000 seat stadium, in almost the same spot where the old stadium once was. The governments of Canada and Ontario combined for , with the city paying , and Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment paying the rest, including any runoff costs. Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment got the naming rights of the new stadium, and has a Major League Soccer team in the new stadium, named Toronto FC. The stadium also held the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup along with other cities in Canada.\n\nBMO Field was initially built as a soccer-specific stadium with field dimensions that were too small to accommodate a Canadian football field and was operated as such until 2015 when MLSE owners Larry Tanenbaum and Bell Canada agreed to purchase the Toronto Argonauts. As part of the agreement, BMO Field was renovated to allow the Argonauts to move back to the site in time for the 2016 CFL season. The stadium also hosted the 104th Grey Cup in 2016 and MLS Cups in 2010, 2016, and 2017, along with the outdoor NHL Centennial Classic game within a 35-day period.\n\nFor the 2015 Pan American Games and Parapan American Games, the old stadium footprint (parking lot) became the Chevrolet Beach Volleyball Centre. The temporary venue had bleachers and a playing area filled with 3,000 metric tonnes of sand. After the Pan American Games, the venue was torn down to allow for setup of rides and restore parking spaces for the 2015 Canadian National Exhibition opening on August 21 of the same year.\n\nA. Game was suspended with 9:29 remaining in the fourth quarter due to extremely dense fog, and completed the next day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4190678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190678", "title": "Fair Park Coliseum (Beaumont, Texas)", "text": "Fair Park Coliseum (Beaumont, Texas)\n\nFair Park Coliseum was a 7,200-seat, covered, open-sided, multi-purpose arena in Beaumont, Texas. It hosted local sporting events and concerts. It was opened in 1978. At the time of its opening the Fair Park Coliseum was the primary concert venue in the Beaumont area; within a decade, however, demand for concert tickets proved so high that the much larger Montagne Center was built in 1984, only six years after the Coliseum had opened. The Coliseum would then become the Beaumont home of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus, Disney on Ice, and Champions on Ice until Ford Arena was built. After significant damage to the coliseum from Hurricane Rita and acquisition of the surrounding property by the Beaumont Housing Authority, the coliseum was demolished. The City of Beaumont awarded a contract for demolition on November 6, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "24901375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24901375", "title": "Gea Happel Amigos Zoersel", "text": "Gea Happel Amigos Zoersel\n\nAmigos - Van Pelt Sint Antonius Zoersel is a Belgian volleyball club based in Zoersel.\n\nThe team was founded in 1997, as a result of a merger between VOC Halle (founded 1974) and VC Amigos (founded 1972). Zoersel's women's A squad won promotion to the highest level of Belgian volleyball for the first time in 2006. The men's A squad currently participates in the EuroMillions Volley League since the season 2015-2016.\n\nAmigos Zoersel is the club with most members in Belgium. It counts 8 women's and 9 men's senior teams, and many youth teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "43005998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43005998", "title": "GoalControl", "text": "GoalControl\n\nGoalControl is a German company based in Würselen, district of Aachen which has developed a goal-line technology for Association football.\n\nThe Goal Control system features 14 high speed cameras which are mounted around the stadium, 7 directed to each of the goals. These cameras are used to detect if the ball has crossed the goal line or not. The camera is capable of taking 500 pictures per seconds and the ball's movement within . Camera data is sent to the central image processing center located within the stadium using fiber optics cable, where a virtual representation of the ball is output to confirm the goal. The referee is equipped with a watch displaying the camera's data which will vibrate and display a signal upon a goal which is transmitted wirelessly.\n\nThe technology was licensed by FIFA in early 2013 alongside competing systems GoalRef, Hawk-Eye, and Cairos. Testing of the camera systems were completed in February, 2013. The GoalControl system was used at the 2013 Confederations Cup as a trial run, where it detected 68 goals and during the 2013 FIFA Club World Cup to track the ball, while GoalRef was used for display. The system was used 2014 World Cup in Brazil where it would be the first World Cup to feature goal-line technology. During the 2014 World Cup, one notable event of the GoalControl goal-line technology being used to award a goal was in the group E match between France and Honduras in which a kick from France's Karim Benzema bounced back from the goal post and an attempt to save the ball by Honduras' goalkeeper Noel Valladares led to an own goal.\n\nA vote cast in early 2014 by the 36 German clubs of the first and second division decided with only 12 out of 36 votes for using the system due to the \"exorbitant cost\" of €250,000 (chip in the ball) to €500,000 (Hawk-Eye, GoalControl) per club. The support of 24 clubs would have been required to carry the motion.\n"}
{"id": "57075523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57075523", "title": "Ham Deok-ju", "text": "Ham Deok-ju\n\nHam Deok-ju ( Hanja: 咸德柱; born 13 January 1995) is a South Korean professional baseball pitcher who is currently playing for the Doosan Bears of the Korea Baseball Organization. \n\nHe graduated from Wonju High School and was selected to Doosan Bears by a draft in 2013 (2nd draft, 5th round). In 2018, he changed back number from No.61 to No.1. He achieved his personal best of nine wins in 2017 season.\n\nHe represented South Korea at the 2018 Asian Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "18417253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18417253", "title": "Hawkins (Hampshire cricketer)", "text": "Hawkins (Hampshire cricketer)\n\nHawkins (dates unknown) was an English amateur cricketer who made 4 known appearances in first-class cricket matches from 1786 to 1787.\n\nHe was mainly associated with Hampshire but also represented the White Conduit Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2657556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657556", "title": "Hunt seat", "text": "Hunt seat\n\nHunt seat is a style of forward seat riding commonly found in North American horse shows. Along with dressage, it is one of the two classic forms of English riding. The hunt seat is based on the tradition of fox hunting. Hunt seat competition in North America includes both flat and over fences for show hunters, which judge the horse's movement and form, and equitation classes, which judge the rider's ability both on the flat and over fences. The term \"hunt seat\" may also refer to \"any\" form of forward seat riding, including the kind seen in show jumping and eventing.\n\nHunt seat is a popular form of riding in the United States, recognized by the USHJA (United States Hunter/Jumper Association) and the United States Equestrian Federation, and in Canada. While hunt seat showing \"per se\" is not an Olympic discipline, many show jumping competitors began by riding in hunter and equitation classes before moving into the jumper divisions.\n\nThe Hunt seat is also sometimes called the \"forward seat.\" Ideally, a hunt seat rider has a very secure position. This includes proper leg position, weight in heels, soft hands, good posture, balanced seat, eyes up and, when working over fences, looking ahead towards the next fence.\n\nRiders usually employ a \"two-point\" position while jumping fences, depending on the type of course and height of fences. The position is so named because the rider has \"two points\" (both legs) in contact with the saddle. The rider supports his or her body using leg and stirrup, keeping the heels down, closing the hip angle, and lifting the buttocks out of the saddle while keeping the head and shoulders up.\n\nOn the flat, or when used on course between jumps, the two-point position allows the horse to have a great deal of freedom of movement because the rider's weight is lifted off its back.\n\nPosition in two-point varies according to the task. Hunter riders generally have a very upright two-point, as they usually show on very level footing and at slower speed. Eventers may have a more crouched position, usually with the heel slightly more forward while riding cross-country, to provide more security as they ride over varying terrain at a fast gallop.\n\nHunt seat competitions are generally divided into three horse show categories, hunters, equitation, and jumpers. Show hunters as a group are judged on manners, way of going, and conformation. Turnout, the presentation of horse and rider, are often taken into account as well. Jumpers are judged by how quickly a horse can complete a course of jumps with the fewest errors, called \"faults.\" Equitation riders are judged on the way they look and form of the rider, and the smoothness and overall appearance of the horse and rider as a team. Related disciplines within the broad category of \"hunt seat\" English riding include eventing and dressage, though the forward seat style of hunt seat equitation riders over fences contrasts with that of eventing riders in cross-country competition, or the deep, more upright position of dressage riders, a discipline that focuses on flat work does not incorporate jumping in competition. These activities are all differentiated from saddle seat-style English riding, which is an American-based discipline confined to the flat, developed for high-action show horses that are not intended to be shown over fences.\n\nHorses used in hunter over fences and hunter under saddle (or \"flat\", non-jumping) classes are called show hunters, and are judged on their movement, way of going, manners, and jumping form. Conformation is judged to some extent as well. Thus, smooth, quiet-moving, well-built horses with good temperament are desired. A related flat class seen in many breed-specific competitions that is very similar to Hunter Under Saddle is English Pleasure-Hunter Type, called simply \"English Pleasure\" within some regions and breeds. Although a somewhat different style of horse than the classic hunter may be shown, the goals of good manners, performance, quality and conformation are still emphasized.\n\nHorses shown hunt seat may be of any breed, although those of Thoroughbred and Warmblood type are most common, except in pony classes. Regardless of breed, the horse should have a long stride with very little knee action, good jumping form with correct bascule, and should be well-mannered. For top level competition, movement and jumping form become increasingly more important.\n\nThe show jumper is generally a horse that has more power and energy than a show hunter. Because only jumping ability is scored, conformation, manners, and way of going are critical only as far as they affect soundness and ability to jump. Jumpers are often taller and more powerfully built than hunters, often with a bit more speed. Some are far more temperamental, though excellent jumpers must be manageable as well as athletic. Horses may be of any breed, though again, Thoroughbreds and Warmbloods dominate the field. It is rare for a horse to perform both as a hunter and as a jumper as temperament and style of movement are markedly different.\n\nHunt seat equitation classes judge the rider only, including his or her position on the flat and over fences and overall effectiveness while riding. Therefore, it is not imperative that the horse has perfect movement or jumping form, but it needs good manners and an attractive way of going that does not detract from the rider's performance. Although temperament is not judged, horses with a more tractable temperament are generally easier to ride, and can therefore help riders demonstrate their skills.\n\nThe ideal equitation mount has less bascule than the show hunter, because it is easier for a rider to maintain the correct jumping position on a \"flatter\" horse that does not throw the rider out of the saddle when it jumps. However, a show jumper is not ideal either, as the horse may be less smooth in its way of going and too excitable in temper for the rider to maintain steady and correct form over a course. The horse must jump safely and not carelessly rub rails. The movement of the equitation horse is generally more collected than the show hunter, which allows the rider to better adjust the stride for tricky combinations.\n\nThe most notable difference between hunters and jumpers is the technicality of the courses. Show jumping courses include combination fences, sharp turns and several changes of direction, all requiring adjustability and athleticism. Show hunter courses include smoother lines, fewer combinations, and wider turns, reflecting the fox hunting tradition and the cadence needed for riding in large fields. Jumper fences can be quite high, up to 5'3\" (1.60m) in Grand Prix show jumping, and well in excess of 7' (2.2m) in puissance (progressive high-jump) classes, with a much greater width. Show hunters, on the other hand, are shown over fences no greater than 4'6\" in height (as displaced in the relatively new \"Performance Working Hunter\" classes), even at the highest levels, but are expected to display a cadence and elegance that is not necessary in show jumping.\n\nEquitation over fences courses test a rider's skill and form. They look like a hunter course, but contain more technical elements, such as intermediate difficulty combinations, tight turns, and difficult distances between fences, which are often seen in show jumping. They often include combinations, tight turns, and difficult distances between fences. These courses reach 3'9\" in height at the highest competitive level.\n\nThe fences used in show hunter courses are designed to be very natural in appearance, to simulate a natural cross-country hunting course. The poles and standards of the fences are usually natural wood or painted a conservative color, such as white or brown. Decorative elements might include brush or flowers. Water obstacles are not included.\n\nObstacles used in jumper competition are often brightly coloured and sometimes even deliberately designed to look \"scary.\" These courses usually include an open water or \"liverpool\" obstacle, and may also have varied terrain with fences on the top or bottom of a bank, or with a ditch under an obstacle.\n\nEquitation obstacles, though more complex in layout than a hunter course, are usually more conservative in design than jumper obstacles, more closely following those of the hunter courses.\n\nEquitation and show hunters are judged subjectively based on ability and form (of the rider) and elegance, cadence and style (of the horse). Equitation may be judged in one round, though often a \"work-off\" is included in which the top riders return for further testing that might consist of another round of jumping, flatwork, no stirrup work, or switching horses, for example. Hunter courses are generally judged in one round, but classics often include two rounds for the top competitors. In most horse shows, four over-fence rounds (one often containing a 25% conformation component) and one flat class make up each hunter section. The judge decides which combination has the smoothest round and displayed a ride most closely to the ideal. Certain mistakes like refusals will lead to drastic penalties, while minor errors like a soft rub on a rail are slightly penalized, at the judge's discretion. This can make judging difficult to follow for those new to showing until the subtle factors considered by the judge are better understood.\n\nUnlike the subjective scoring of the hunters, show jumping horses are more objectively penalized by accumulating \"faults\" if they knock down or refuse obstacles (four faults), or if they exceed the optimum time. Some jumper classes also require a second round for those who jumped clean (received no penalties) in the first round. These \"jump-offs\" are judged on accuracy and time. Competitors are placed first in the order of fewest faults and then in the order of fastest time (not just time allowed). Because style is never taken into account, the horse may jump in unorthodox form, take off from a poor spot, or rub a rail without any penalty. This objective scoring makes show jumping easy to follow though sometimes both horses and riders may exhibit unorthodox and even unsafe form without penalty.\n\nSpeed is not favored in show hunter or equitation classes. A steady but forward canter is seen in show hunter courses and in equitation courses. In show jumping, the rider may be penalized for going over the time. Therefore, a faster but steady gallop is used in jumper classes. Jump-offs also often display greater pace as time is of the essence.\n\nClasses of hunt seat riding are often divided by the horse and rider's ability, the rider's age, the height of the horse or pony, and the requirements of the horse in that class.\n\n\n\nPony hunter divisions may also be specified as Green Pony Hunter divisions. Green Pony Hunter divisions are for those ponies who are in their first year of rated showing. In Green Pony Hunter classes, small ponies jump 2'3\", medium ponies jump 2'6\", and large ponies jump 2'9\".\n\n\nFirst and Second Year Green Hunters are shown under USEF rules. According to these rules, First Year Green Hunters are in their first year of showing fences at 3'6\". Therefore, fences in their classes are set at 3'6\". Second Year Green Hunters are in their second year of showing fences at 3'6\". Fences in their classes are set at 3'9\".\n\nFirst and Second Year Green Hunters may also show in Green Conformation Hunter divisions. These divisions are the same as the previous divisions with one important difference. In conformation hunter classes, horses are judged 60% on their movement and performance and 40% on their conformation.\n\n\nRegular Hunters may also show in Regular Conformation Hunter divisions. These divisions are the same as the previous division with one important difference. In conformation hunter classes, horses are judged 60% on their movement and performance and 40% on their conformation.\n\n\nHunter classes (both under-saddle and over fences) have requirements for classic, plain tack that demonstrates that the hunter is easy to ride and attentive and responsive to its rider.\n\nThe saddle is usually a type of forward seat (jumping saddle), generally the style called \"close contact,\" though \"eventing\" and \"all-purpose\" designs are seen in some areas, particularly at lower levels. Saddles are usually of brown leather, with a plain girth, usually of leather. The saddle pad should be white, and shaped to fit the saddle. Ideally, no more than one inch of pad should appear under the saddle.\n\nThe bridle is simple, with a plain cavesson (any type of noseband other than a plain cavesson is prohibited) and a simple, unadorned browband. Bits are also simple, with riders usually using a classic snaffle bit, either a dee-ring, eggbutt, or full cheek design. Milder bits are preferred in hunter classes. Pelham bits which include a curb chain and require two sets of reins are also legal and are particularly popular in equitation. Bit converters are illegal.\n\nAlmost all shows prohibit martingales in \"flat\" or \"under saddle\" (not to jump) classes. Martingales are only permitted in over-fence classes, and only the standing martingale is legal in hunter classes. A running martingale is legal for jumpers, but it is not for hunters. According to the 2007 USEF Rule Book for the Hunter division, \"Martingales of any type are prohibited in Under Saddle, hack and tie-breaking classes. Standing martingales are allowed for all over fence classes. All other martingales may be considered unconventional.\"\n\nIn some breed-specific shows, other types of bits, such as the Kimberwicke, are sometimes legal, but are not considered \"classic\" hunt seat bits, and riders moving from breed-specific to open competition are sometimes penalized severely if they use non-traditional equipment in open competition.\n\nThe horse must be very neat and well-presented. Hunter and equitation horses are to have braided manes and tails while showing, particularly at rated competition. If braiding is not possible, the mane is to at least be pulled neatly and lie flat on one side of the horse's neck. The dock of the tail is braided into a \"French\" style braid, which runs the length of the tailbone, with the remainder of the tail allowed to flow freely. In the United States, the hunt seat horse's tail is not \"banged\" (cut straight across to an even length), though banged tails are seen in Europe.\n\nHorses usually have any long body hair trimmed short, particularly around the fetlocks, jaw, and ears. In some breeds and in some places, it is common to trim muzzle whiskers as well. Many exhibitors also trim a small bridle path by shaving a few inches of mane right behind the ears. The horses are usually bathed the day before a show, blanketed overnight to stay clean, and thoroughly groomed the day of the competition prior to entering the ring. Braiding of the mane and, when applicable, tail, is often done the night before or morning of the show, but can be completed earlier if precautions are taken to avoid having the horse rub out the braids.\n\nThe hunt seat rider is dressed conservatively. Classic attire for hunter classes consists of beige, tan or gray breeches, a white or light pastel shirt, and a black, navy, gray, \"hunter\" green or dark brown hunt coat. (Black is considered a dressage style, however, and though legal, is less often seen in Hunter classes.) Some years, patterns that appear solid at a distance, such as pinstripes, faint plaids or herringbone, are popular. In some competitions, the show management may choose to waive the jacket requirement if the heat and humidity is very high.\n\nThe show shirt, called a \"ratcatcher,\" is a buttoned shirt with a stand-up mandarin-style collar covered by a separate, matching choker or a stock tie, the final look usually resembling that of a turtleneck. The traditional, classic shirt is white. However, in some places and at some types of less formal competition, particularly for children, pastel-colored shirts are popular, coordinated with the colors in the hunt coat. Traditionally shirts were long-sleeved, but today are more often short-sleeved or sleeveless, though sleeveless shirts cannot be worn when the jacket rule is waived. Stock pins are sometimes worn on the stock tie or choker, although the most recent fashion has been to embroider the rider's initials on the choker.\n\nA recent trend in Hunter Classics and stakes classes is for Hunter riders wear a different styled coat called a shadbelly. This is a black coat cut short on the front midsection but worn long with tails in the back. The shadbelly is worn with a stock tie and pin and with taddersall points on the bottom. This coat is not seen in most hunter classes or at smaller shows, and is almost never required. This trend has been adopted from dressage competition where the shadbelly is worn in the upper levels. However, traditional hunt riders still wear the shorter hunt coat.\n\nIn some places, particularly breed-specific shows where tradition is not as strong, different colors of jackets and shirts are seen: riders sometimes wear tan, teal, light grey, or even dark violet coats with shirts in more vivid shades like green, orange, pink, lavender, and blue. Non-traditional attire is frowned upon and sometimes penalized in open competition.\n\nThe rider is usually required to wear an ASTM/SEI-approved equestrian helmet with safety harness fastened. Although black, velvet-covered hunt caps were once popular, the old style caps provided virtually no actual protection to the head and are now prohibited for junior riders at any time while mounted, and are not allowed on riders of any age in classes to jump. Caps are still sometimes seen on adult riders in flat classes, and remain somewhat popular at breed shows. However, many adult hunt seat riders who do not jump are also leaving behind the hunt cap in favor of ASTM/SEI-approved headgear.\n\nSome helmets retain the classic velveteen covered look. Newer designs are characterized by a broader visor, a contrasting ventilation strip down the center, and, for women, a hair-catching cloth at the back. The ventilation strip has given this style of helmet the tongue-in-cheek nickname \"skunk helmet\". Helmets with vivid colors and designs are often worn by children, but usually covered with a black velvet cloth cover for show.\n\nRiders 13 years or older generally wear tall, black field boots with breeches. Younger riders who still have rapidly growing feet may wear either brown or black jodhpur boots (sometimes called \"paddock boots\") and \"jod straps\" (strips of leather worn buckled under each knee for grip) with jodhpur pants.\n\nDark gloves should be worn, but are not required.\n\nAttire for jumper classes resembles that of hunter riders, though may be less formal at lower levels. It is becoming acceptable in some regions and with some organizations for competitors to wear any collared shirt, such as a polo shirt, during very hot weather, rather than the traditional wool hunt coat and long-sleeved ratcatcher. For upper level competitions, such as classics and grand prixs, formal dress is usually required. This usually includes light-colored (usually shades of beige or a pale \"canary\" yellow) or white breeches, a white shirt, and a dark coat. Some riders are allowed to wear scarlet coats based on achievements in the sport. \n\n\n\nVideos\n"}
{"id": "9691256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9691256", "title": "Icosathlon", "text": "Icosathlon\n\nThe icosathlon, also called the double decathlon, is an ultra multi-event of track and field competition consisting of 20 events contested over two days. There is an extra rule, that each day should contain a pause of one hour. Mostly the competition is held over two days, but one-day icosathlons also exist. The first day of the standard icosathlon includes:\n\nOn the second day of the standard icosathlon, the following events are contested:\n\nEach event is scored according to the decathlon scoring tables or, for non-decathlon events, the IAAF points tables. At the conclusion of each icosathlon, the competitor with the highest point total is declared the winner.\n\nThe event is overseen by the International Association for Ultra Multievents (IAUM), which also holds the tetradecathlon based on the women's heptathlon. The men's world record for the standard icosathlon of 14,571 is held by Joseph Detmer of the United States. The women's world record of 11,091 is held by Kelly Rodmell.\n\nEC – European Championships (no World Championships that year)\n\nNOTE: Only male athlete totals from 1990.\n\nFor indoor ultra-multievent meetings, all competitors compete in an indoor tetradecathlon, spanning 14 events over 2 days. These events are as follows:\n\nDay 1\n\nDay 2\n\nUnlike in outdoor ultra multi event competitions, the number and order of events is the same for both genders.\n\nMen\n\nWomen\n\nThis table of records is not officially acknowledged by the IAAF but is considered by the International Association for Ultra Multievents (IAUM) as the best performance of all time since the foundation of the discipline in 1981.\n\nThe IAUM sponsors an icosathlon and tetradecathlon every year at the IAUM World Championships. The 2012 World Championships were held in Turnhout, Belgium. In addition, a variety of other icosathlon events are held, most notably the annual Dutch Double Decathlon, held in Delft, Netherlands. The 2015 event was held 19-20 September. The last European Championships were held on 6 and 7 September 2014 in Lodi, Lombardy, Italy (near Milan). The upcoming European Championships was held from 27-28 August 2016 in Cambridge, England. The 2017 event was held in Turnhout, Belgium and 2018 in Delft, Netherlands. The 2019 event will be held in Helsinki, Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "3555890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555890", "title": "Intrust Bank Arena", "text": "Intrust Bank Arena\n\nIntrust Bank Arena is a 15,004-seat multi-purpose arena in Wichita, Kansas, United States. It is located on the northeast corner of Emporia and Waterman streets in downtown Wichita.\n\nThe arena features 22 suites, 2 party suites, and over 300 premium seats. It is home to the Wichita Thunder of the ECHL and the Wichita Force of the CIF. It is the second largest indoor arena in the state of Kansas, behind Allen Fieldhouse, which seats 16,300.\n\nThe Wichita State Shockers men's basketball team uses the arena as an alternate site for games that attract more fans than can be accommodated at its on-campus arena, Charles Koch Arena. The arena hosted first and second round games for the NCAA Division I Women's Basketball Tournament in 2011 and the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament in 2018. The arena is also scheduled to host 1st and 2nd round games of the men's tournament in 2021 as well as a regional for Sweet 16 and Elite 8 games in 2022.\n\nThe facility was known as Sedgwick County Arena during early planning stages. It was meant to replace the Kansas Coliseum north of Wichita.\n\nOn November 9, 2004, Sedgwick County voters approved the downtown arena at a projected construction cost of $183,625,241 by a 52-48% margin.\n\nOn April 4, 2005, Governor Kathleen Sebelius signed the Intrust Bank Arena tax bill authorizing Sedgwick County to collect a 1% sales tax beginning July 1, 2005 for 30 months.\n\nOn January 10, 2008, Sedgwick County announced it had reached a 25-year, $8.75 million naming rights deal with Wichita-based Intrust Bank, the largest bank headquartered in Kansas. This complements a 20-year, $3 million deal with Cessna Aircraft Company to name an adjacent outdoor plaza, and a concourse area deal with Spirit AeroSystems.\n\nIt was announced on March 9, 2010 that the Intrust Bank Arena was voted the 'Best Arena' and 'Best Locker Rooms' and also voted third in the 'Best Press Box' category in the Central Hockey League's annual 'Best of the Best' poll.\n\nThe Intrust Bank Arena cracked Pollstar's Top 50 Arena Venues for ticket sales during the first quarter of 2010. Intrust Bank Arena ranked 22nd in the United States and 45th worldwide.\n\nIn 2010, net profit was $2,010,736 with depreciation of $4.4 million.\nIn 2011, net profit was $389,659.\nIn 2012, net profit was $703,000.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55877828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55877828", "title": "Islam Batran", "text": "Islam Batran\n\nIslam Batran (Arabic: اسلام البطران born 1 October 1994 in Palestine) is a Palestinian footballer who plays for Wadi Degla SC of the Egyptian Premier League as of 2016.\n\nPenning a three-year contract with Egyptian Premier League title contenders Wadi Degla in August 2016 following a trial there, Batran had a good showing in the clubs friendly matches, even scoring a goal in a 7-0 friendly win as well.\n\nInvolved in a traffic accident with his cousin in 2016, Batran fortunately survived, having to convalesce for one week in order to heal his injuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "49354098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49354098", "title": "Italian Dynamic Shooting Federation", "text": "Italian Dynamic Shooting Federation\n\n"}
{"id": "23000403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23000403", "title": "JSM Skikda", "text": "JSM Skikda\n\nJeunesse Sportive Madinet Skikda (), known as JSM Skikda or simply JSMS for short, is a football club based in the city of Skikda. The club was founded in 1936 and its colours are black and white. Their home stadium, the Stade 20 Août 1955, has a capacity of some 30,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 2.\n\n\"As of August 10, 2018.\"\n\nThe supporters of JSM Skikda are distributed in 3 ultras:\n"}
{"id": "47678185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47678185", "title": "Jared Jarvis", "text": "Jared Jarvis\n\nJared Jarvis (born 29 August 1994) is an Antigua and Barbuda sprinter. He competed in the 4 × 100 metres relay event at the 2015 World Championships in Athletics in Beijing, China.\n"}
{"id": "42020636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42020636", "title": "Kandadji Sport", "text": "Kandadji Sport\n\nKandadji Sport is a Nigerien football club based in Niamey. The club plays in Niger Premier League.\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 35000 capacity Stade Général Seyni Kountché.\n\n"}
{"id": "634944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634944", "title": "Kezar Stadium", "text": "Kezar Stadium\n\nKezar Stadium is an outdoor athletics stadium in San Francisco, California, located adjacent to Kezar Pavilion in the southeastern corner of Golden Gate Park. It is the former home of the San Francisco 49ers and the Oakland Raiders (first AFL season only) of the National Football League (NFL) and of the San Francisco Dragons of Major League Lacrosse. It currently serves as the home of San Francisco City FC of the Premier Development League.\n\nKezar also hosts amateur and recreation sports leagues, as well as numerous San Francisco high school football games (including the city championship, known popularly as the \"Turkey Bowl\").\n\nIn 1920, Jack Spaulding proposed an athletics stadium for San Francisco, seating 50,000. Many business leaders in the city backed him, as it would keep San Francisco level with other cities with large stadiums. Areas under consideration for the stadium were 7th & Harrison Streets, Ocean Shore, and the Central Park grounds.\n\nIn 1922, the San Francisco Park Commission accepted a $100,000 gift from the estate of Mary Kezar to build a memorial in honor of her mother and uncles, who were pioneers in the area. After the City and County of San Francisco appropriated an additional $200,000, the stadium was built in a year. Dedication ceremonies were on May 2, 1925, and featured a two-mile (3.2 km) footrace between Ville Ritola and Paavo Nurmi of Finland, two of the great runners of the era. A little over a month later, the new stadium hosted the USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships.\n\nThe stadium had many uses in the 1930s. In addition to track and field competitions, Kezar Stadium hosted motorcycle racing, auto racing, rugby, lacrosse, soccer, baseball, boxing, cricket, and football. In September 1932, the Australian Cricket Team played a North California all-star team in the Australians' 56-game tour of the U.S. and Canada. The stadium was also home to several colleges (Santa Clara, USF, St. Mary's), and the now-defunct San Francisco Polytechnic High School. In 1926, the stadium also became the home of the \n\nIn 1928, the city high school championship game between cross-town rivals San Francisco Polytechnic and Lowell drew more than 50,000—still the record for a high school football game in northern California. The Bruce-Mahoney rivalry football game between St. Ignatius College Preparatory and Sacred Heart Cathedral Prep is held at the new (smaller) stadium.\n\nThe annual East-West Shrine Game of 1931 was replaced by a raucous Knights of Columbus game featuring the Savoldi All-Stars. Prescott Sullivan, noted San Francisco Chronicle sportswriter, recounted the day's events in his January 26 column. \"Jumping Joe\" Savoldi gave some very sound reasons why Knute Rockne calls him \"modern football's greatest fullback\" yesterday when he led a team composed largely of California and U.S.C. stars to a 13-0 victory over Ernie Nevers and a supporting cast of St. Mary's players at Kezar Stadium. More than 30,000 customers put the Knights of Columbus’ grid finales over in a big way and saw “Jumping Joe” and his playmates cinch their victory with two spectacular fourth period touchdowns. These runs, end to end, constituted a very sizable day's work for \"Jumping Joe,\" and the crowd showed it's deep appreciation by mobbing him at the finish of the ball game. Savoldi managed to escape by throwing his headgear to the milling throng, and long after the players had left the field of action, Joe's helmet was still at the center of a battle royal. More than 200 enthusiastic souvenir hunters joined in the fight, which continued to rage unabated outside the stadium after police had managed to chase the combatants from the big bowl. Numerous black eyes were exchanged before mounted police finally quelled the uprising. Such is Savoldi's fame!\"\n\nStanford University played four of its home football games at Kezar; one in 1928 and three in 1942. Stanford was also part of the first-ever major college football double header in 1940, which featured Stanford–San Francisco and Santa Clara–Utah.\n\nKezar Stadium was the first home of the San Francisco 49ers and Oakland Raiders, as well many NFL Hall of Famers, historical NFL games, and the first \"alley-oop.\" The Raiders played at Kezar for their first four home games in 1960, and at Candlestick Park during the remainder of their first two seasons, before Frank Youell Field was built as a temporary facility in Oakland. Defensive end Jim Marshall of the visiting Minnesota Vikings had his famous \"wrong way run\" at Kezar in 1964, against the 49ers on October 25.\n\nThe 49ers played the final NFL game at Kezar in early 1971, losing the 1970 NFC Championship Game to the Dallas Cowboys 17–10 on January 3. The 49ers moved to the more modern and accessible Candlestick Park for the 1971 season, and played there for through 2013.\n\nKezar Stadium was also the home field for the San Francisco Stingrayz women's professional football team from until the team was forced to end their season due to a bus accident which injured many players. The Stingrayz were one of the Bay Area's women's tackle football teams in the Women's Professional Football League, and then the Independent Women's Football League.\n\nMonths after the 49ers' departure, several scenes from the 1971 film \"Dirty Harry\" were filmed at and above the stadium. The film's fictional antagonist, Scorpio (played by Andrew Robinson), worked as the caretaker at the stadium and lived under the grandstand.\n\nWith the loss of professional football in 1971, the stadium became a popular outdoor concert venue, and its proximity to the Haight-Ashbury District helped with the transition. Notable performers at Kezar included Led Zeppelin, The Doobie Brothers, Jefferson Starship, Tower of Power, Joan Baez, Grateful Dead, The New Riders of the Purple Sage, Santana, Waylon Jennings, Bob Dylan, Neil Young and Graham Central Station.\n\nThe stadium hosted the inaugural and closing ceremonies of the 1982 and 1986 Gay Games. In the 1982 edition the stadium also hosted the soccer events.\n\nWith pending demolition, the bleacher planks of Kezar Stadium were sold off to fans at a party in April 1989. In June, the stadium was demolished and rebuilt with a much smaller seating capacity of 10,000. The upgrades included an eight-lane, all-weather track and a grass athletic infield suitable for soccer, football, and lacrosse.\n\nDuring the reconstruction, the field and track configurations were shifted several degrees counterclockwise, to move the stadium away from Frederick Street. The evidence for this can be seen by examining photos of the tunnel entrance at the east end of the field, which used to be exactly on the long axis of the track. A replica of the original concrete arch bearing the name \"Kezar Stadium\" was built on the west side of the stadium as a tribute to the original structure. A plaque of NFL Hall of Famer Bob St. Clair, a San Francisco native who played 11 pro seasons (1953–63) with the 49ers, plus his high school (S.F. Poly) and most of his college career (USF) at Kezar Stadium, is built into the replica arch.\n\nKezar Stadium was closed for renovations from September 29, 2014 until March 13, 2015. The $3.2-million renovation included the replacement of the running track surface, new entry walk paving, upgraded sound system, new perimeter walkways and curbs, installation of new Mondo running track surface and striping for nine 42” lanes. In addition, 1,000 historic Candlestick Park Stadium seats were installed for the public to enjoy. The renovation was funded by the City’s Capital Planning General Fund. Mayor Edwin M. Lee helped re-open the stadium with a warm-up run.\n\nIn December 2016, 4,000 additional historic Candlestick seats were acquired and installed at Kezar. The seats were paid for by the San Francisco Deltas as a part of a $1-million improvement the team agreed upon to make use of the stadium.\n\nIn 1967 it served as the home stadium for the San Francisco Golden Gate Gales of the United Soccer Association.\n\nWith the 2006 West Coast expansion of Major League Lacrosse, Kezar Stadium once again became a home to a professional team, the San Francisco Dragons. In October 2006, United Soccer Leagues (USL) and Spanish football club Deportivo Alavés announced that the new pro soccer team, named California Victory, would play their 2007 home games at Kezar. The Victory played in the USL's First Division, one level below Major League Soccer. However, Alaves later withdrew their support and the team folded.\n\nSacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory, a nearby Catholic high school uses the field for their home football games. Mission High School also uses the field for home games. Kezar has also been the host of several Northern California Semi-pro football championship games.\n\nIn 2010, 2011, and 2012, Stanford University held its spring football game at Kezar. For the 2012 and 2016 San Francisco Olympic bids, Kezar was designated to host field hockey had San Francisco been chosen in either year.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2016, Kezar was the home field for San Francisco City FC, a supporter-owned club playing in the PDL.\n\nIn 2017, Kezar became the home field for the San Francisco Deltas, a professional soccer team playing in the North American Soccer League (NASL). The Deltas have contributed over $1-million in renovations to the stadium. However, Deltas announced that they would be concluding operations and the team folded.\n\nIn February 2018, San Francisco City FC announced they would return to Kezar Stadium for the 2018 PDL season.\n\nThe San Francisco Nighthawks, founded in 1995 and a member of the Women's Premier Soccer League, play their home games at Kezar. The Bay Area Breeze of the W-League started play there in 2013.\n\nKezar is also the home to the annual San Francisco Fall Lacrosse Classic, an NCAA Division I fall ball game started in 2009 to benefit the Bay Area Youth Sports Foundation. The first event was between Brown and North Carolina. It was the first Division I men's lacrosse played in Northern California. North Carolina beat Brown 13–5 in front of a crowd of more than 4,500. The 2010 event featured lacrosse powerhouse Johns Hopkins and Notre Dame on Saturday, October 16, 2010. Notre Dame beat Hopkins 10–7. The third installment took place on Saturday, October 8, 2011 and featured the University of Denver and Harvard University. The fourth installment took place Sunday October 21, 2012 in a match between Lehigh and Ohio State. As a direct result of the San Francisco Fall Lacrosse Classic, the BAYS Foundation has made over $225,000 in grants to local youth sports and educations programs for under-resourced children throughout the Bay Area.\n\nIn 2013, Kezar was home to the Major League Ultimate (MLU) team, the San Francisco Dogfish.\n\nKezar was home to the San Francisco GAA football league (Gaelic football).\nIn 2004 it served as the home of the San Francisco Freedom, the city's Pro Cricket team.\n\n"}
{"id": "28495569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28495569", "title": "Kufrsoum SC", "text": "Kufrsoum SC\n\nKufrsoum SC is a Jordanian football club which is based in the village of Kufrsoum, Jordan, just outside the city of :Irbid. The football club competes in the Jordan league.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20488314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20488314", "title": "L.D.U. Cuenca", "text": "L.D.U. Cuenca\n\nLiga Deportiva Universitaria de Cuenca is a football club based in Cuenca, Ecuador currently in the Second Category Ecuadorian football Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "56474116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56474116", "title": "List of foreign footballers in Vietnam", "text": "List of foreign footballers in Vietnam\n\nThis is a list of foreign players in Vietnam. \n\nThe List includes players from 2000 to 2018 and the V.League 2. Players of the current season are also included. All following players have played at least one game in Vietnam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5632342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5632342", "title": "Mennen Arena", "text": "Mennen Arena\n\nThe William G. Mennen Sports Arena, commonly called the Mennen Sports Arena or the Mennen Arena, is a 2,500-seat multi-purpose arena in Morris Township, New Jersey. It hosts various local concerts and sporting events for the area. Mennen hosted one game for the New Jersey XTreme of the National Indoor Football League in 2005, and was formerly the home of the New Jersey Revolution of the American Indoor Football Association. Mennen also is the home of the County College of Morris hockey team as well as all of the public high school hockey teams in Morris County, New Jersey. Mennen is also one of the host arenas for the New Jersey Colonials, the main training center for the Skating Club of Morris, and the Precisely Right synchronized skating team.\n\nOn June 18, 2005, CM Punk won the Ring of Honor World Heavyweight Championship at the arena from Austin Aries.\n\nThe Mennen Arena built in 1973 on land donated by the Mennen Company, now part of Colgate-Palmolive. It was opened to the public on January 12, 1975. At that time, the facility consisted of one indoor multi-purpose arena with artificial ice in place for most of the year.\n\nA second ice surface was added in an expansion building in 1986. Due to continued growth in demand for ice time, a third surface was added in 2002, as well as additional space for parties and expanded restroom facilities. \n\nDuring the summer months the ice surface in the main rink is removed. While the ice is out the arena hosts a wide variety of events ranging from indoor football to the Shrine Circus. Mennen has also hosted National Night Out as well as a Tiger Schulman's Mixed Martial arts event. Mennen arena has also hosted events such as other MMA events such as Grapplers Quest and Cage Fury Fighting Championships (CFFC)\n\nMennen Arena is a facility of The Morris County Park Commission.\n\nThe field located outside of the arena is home to the Morris Lions Rugby Football Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "54279984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54279984", "title": "Mondotrack", "text": "Mondotrack\n\nMondotrack is a trademarked synthetic track surface used for Track and field athletics. Mondotrack is developed by Mondo, a world leader in Track and field surfacing. Research was done to achieve the best possible surface for track events that will enhance performance and decrease the chance of injury. All Mondotracks come with a woven top layer and a hexagonal base layer. Unlike other tracks, Mondotracks can be different colors. Mondotracks are very prominent around the world.\n\nIn 1980, Mondo, with the help of several biomechanical research laboratories from around the world, began researching new material for an athletic track surface. Mondo's goal was to improve \"athletic performance, comfort and safety\". The result of their research was the innovative Mondotrack. Since then, Mondotrack has become a staple synthetic track surface used all over the world. Many colleges in the United States and professional Track and field venues like the one used in the 2011 IAAF World Championships have had Mondotrack as their surface.\n\nMondotrack's superior design has led to many world competitions to use the type of track. Recent uses have been the 2016 Olympic Games and the 2012 Olympic Games. Over 260 world records have been set on a Mondotrack.\n\nMondotrack comes in several variations: Mondotrack WS (Championship series), Super X Performance, and Super X 720. The surface is a seamless structure that is created through a vulcanized process. Two distinct layers make up the track: The top layer being a rubber-based soft surface and the bottom layer being a hard elongated hexagonal surface. The thickness is 13.5 mm and is available in eight different colors. Mondotrack comes in rolls no longer than 15 meters in length that are then assembled to make the complete track.\n\nBecause of the design of the Mondotrack surface, certain spikes for running shoes are required. Compression (Christmas tree) spikes and 6mm (1/4in) pyramid spikes are promoted for use on Mondotracks. These spikes will not damage the track. Needle spikes however, will damage the track. The thin-sharp pointed needle spikes allow the spike to penetrate the surface which can rupture and degrade the track over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "7750597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7750597", "title": "Mongolia at the 1984 Winter Olympics", "text": "Mongolia at the 1984 Winter Olympics\n\nMongolia competed at the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "6271207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271207", "title": "Monster Bat Incident 1771", "text": "Monster Bat Incident 1771\n\nThe Monster Bat Incident 1771 concerns an attempt to use a bat that was as wide as the wicket, during a cricket match between Chertsey and Hambledon at Laleham Burway that lasted from 23 September to 24 September 1771. Controversy arose when Chertsey's Thomas White attempted to use the bat, while the Hambledon players objected. Ultimately Hambledon won the match by one run. The incident is occasionally ascribed to \"Shock\" White, a contemporary of Thomas White, but they were different players.\n\nAfterwards, a formal protest was written by Thomas Brett and signed by himself, Richard Nyren and John Small. The incident brought about a change in the Laws of cricket, as confirmed in 1774, whereby the maximum width of the bat was set at four and one quarter inches. This ruling has remained intact.\n\n"}
{"id": "29538087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29538087", "title": "Neil Schyan Jeffers", "text": "Neil Schyan Jeffers\n\nNeil Schyan Jeffers (born March 22, 1977) is an Antigua and Barbudan football player. He plays for Antigua and Barbuda national team.\n"}
{"id": "42468974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42468974", "title": "No No: A Dockumentary", "text": "No No: A Dockumentary\n\nNo No: A Dockumentary is a 2014 American documentary film directed and produced by Jeff Radice. The film premiered in competition category of \"U.S. Documentary Competition program\" at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 20, 2014.\n\nThe film details the life story of American professional baseball player Dock Ellis, his prolific career, his addictions to alcohol and amphetamines, his efforts to help other addicts until his death in 2008, and the no-hitter he threw while under the influence of LSD.\n\nThe film received overwhelmingly positive response from critics. Duane Byrge of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film positive review and said that \"More than just a documentary focusing on one man’s life, \"No No: A Dockumentary\" is not told just between the foul lines. It rounds several story bases: It flexes as a window on the cataclysmic changes of the late 1960s and ’70s, and documents Ellis’ substance abuse.\" Steve Greene from Indiewire in his review said that \"\"No No: A Dockumentary\" becomes a supremely successful biography in acknowledging the reason for Ellis’ fame while showing how that story is just a sliver of what defined his later years\" and that \"\"No-No\" exists as both a measured and vibrant portrait in equal measure, a fitting tribute to a life that encompassed both of those same qualities.\" Amber Wilkinson of \"The Daily Telegraph\" gave the film four out of five stars and praised the director Jeff Radice by saying that \"Radice takes an inventive approach to Ellis's story, using a terrific Seventies soundtrack, animation and manipulated still photography – frequently featuring trippy pops of colour – to maintain the momentum. He also approaches the tale with a sense of humour, even though he never plays down the havoc the pitcher's addictions wreaked on his personal life. An effortless home run.\" Drew Taylor, in his review for \"The Playlist\", praised the film that \"\"No No\" is a jazzy, joyful exploration of a man that, if he wasn't able to actually change the system, was at least happy with giving it the middle finger.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10608677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10608677", "title": "Oregon Sports Hall of Fame", "text": "Oregon Sports Hall of Fame\n\nThe Oregon Sports Hall of Fame honors Oregon athletes, teams, coaches, and others who have made a significant contribution to sports in Oregon. The first class was inducted in 1980, with new inductees added in the fall. Operated by the Oregon Sports Trust, the museum is currently closed in preparation for moving to another facility.\n\nThe Oregon Sports Hall of Fame inducted its first class of 54 members in 1980, a diverse group that included Olympians Mack Robinson, Don Schollander and Frank Troeh, Boston Red Sox legend Johnny Pesky, NFL hero Norm van Brocklin, Heisman Trophy winner Terry Baker, high jump innovator Dick Fosbury, and basketball coaching legend Slats Gill.\n\nNew members are inducted each fall, in a ceremony held in recent years at the Multnomah Athletic Club in Portland, Oregon.\n\nAs part of its educational mission to promote the values and rewards of participation in sports, the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame grants as many as nine $2,000 scholarships given to outstanding Oregon student athletes who will be attending Oregon colleges. Scholarship winners are honored during the Hall of Fame induction ceremony.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1997, the museum was located in a basement under the Standard Insurance Center in downtown Portland, Oregon. In 1997, the museum moved to a nearby facility featuring of space with hands-on exhibits, videos, and memorabilia, such as Terry Baker's Heisman trophy (the first Heisman given to a West Coast athlete), Mack Robinson's Olympic jersey, one of Dale Murphy's Golden Gloves, and Bill Walton's jersey from the 1977 Portland Trail Blazers NBA championship game.\n\nIn mid-2008, StanCorp evicted the museum in order to expand their own office space. The museum is closed in preparation for moving to an as-yet determined location.\n\nThe current members of the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame are listed below.\n\nThe Hall of Fame has also inducted these teams:\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1956894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956894", "title": "Pershing Center", "text": "Pershing Center\n\nThe Pershing Center (originally known as Pershing Auditorium) is a 4,526-seat multi-purpose arena in Lincoln, Nebraska. Although still physically in place, it is no longer in use.\n\nIn February 12, 1900, Lincoln's first municipal auditorium, though owned by Lancaster County and operated by the local chapter of the American Legion, opened. The building was burnt to the ground in an accident on April 15, 1928.\n\nBy 1931, the city of Lincoln was planning to build a new auditorium and name it after General John J. Pershing, based on votes from students that would ultimately form and attend Lincoln Northeast High School. In 1939, city of Lincoln voters approved a $750,000 bond to build a new auditorium. A second bond in 1950, at cost of $1.5 million, was approved, but an additional $75,000 bond was rejected in 1952. Plans for Pershing were approved in 1955 and the building opened two years later.\n\nPershing's exterior is highlighted by a large ceramic tile mural, designed by artists Leonard Thiessen and Bill J. Hammon. Measuring 38-by-140 foot (5320 sq. ft.; 494.2 m) and consisting of 763,000 1-sq.-inch pieces, it was the largest ceramic tile mural in the United States at the time of its construction.\n\nThe arena was home to the Lincoln Capitols NIFL indoor football team Lincoln Thunder ABA basketball team and the No Coast Derby Girls Women's Flat Track Derby Association league. In 2013, it was home to the Lincoln Haymakers of the Champions Professional Indoor Football League.\n\nPershing was also a host site for the NSAA boys and girls state basketball, as well as the NSAA girls volleyball championships. It has hosted the national roller-skating championships 28 times, beginning in 1962 though the final 2014 meet, called Last Lap At Pershing. \n\nPershing has held many events in the past, including concerts and WWE/TNA house show wrestling events. The Doors played their first concert since the death of their singer Jim Morrison at Pershing on November 12, 1971. The Grateful Dead's performance, on February 26, 1973, was recorded and makes up half of their live album, entitled \"Dick's Picks Volume 28\". The exterior and marquee of the arena are also featured in the 1981 film, \"This is Elvis\", as it hosted one of Elvis Presley's final concerts in 1977. Phish played the arena in 1995.\n\nIn 2008-2009, discussions began to build a new, larger arena for Lincoln due to mid-sized arenas no longer able to meet the demands of most tours. According to Pershing General Manager Tom Lorenz \"the music and entertainment industry has pulled back on midlevel tours, reducing the number of shows likely to come to Pershing. Normally, Pershing has six to eight concerts annually, but this year will have three or four\". A subsidy to cover a budget shortfall of $150,000 was passed by the Lincoln City Council because the situation was so dire, only \"10 months into the fiscal year.\" The larger arena in Lincoln's Haymarket District was ultimately built between 2011 and 2013, opening as Pinnacle Bank Arena opened in August 2013.\n\nThe final major event, a concert by Goo Goo Dolls, was held at the Pershing Center August 6, 2014. The last usage of the building was a roller derby match August 23, 2014 between the No Coast Derby Girls and the Kansas City Roller Warriors, it was won by the Kansas City Roller Warriors. \n\nAn RFP was sent out by the City of Lincoln in 2014 looking for reuse plans for the Pershing Center, but none of the proposals were acceptable due to cost. Demolition may be in the building's future if an alternate use is not found. The contents of the Pershing Center were auctioned off in January-February 2015. \n\nMembers of the community have also voiced their desire to save the large, iconic mural on the auditorium's exterior. Estimates place preservation and re-installation of the mural elsewhere at $1.2 million.\n\nAs of 2018, the auditorium's future is unclear. It remains standing, and is used only as a storage facility for the Pinnacle Bank Arena. Many proposals have been floated by private groups and government agencies, but none that the city government (who does not plan to demolish the building) has found acceptable.\n\n"}
{"id": "43993730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43993730", "title": "Saint Stephen's Day bandy", "text": "Saint Stephen's Day bandy\n\nSaint Stephen's Day bandy () is a Swedish tradition in which elite bandy matches are played on Saint Stephen's Day.\n\nThe tradition dates to the 1930s, when the two clubs IF Göta and Slottsbrons IF took to playing a Saint Stephen's Day friendly match. Despite initial objections by the Church of Sweden to scheduling the game on the Saint Stephen's Day, the event grew in popularity thereafter.\n\nHistorically, only a few instances of the Saint Stephen's Day match marked the season opener for Elitserien, Sweden’s top division. Prior to 1957, Saint Stephen's Day was the date of the final friendly match, after which the season usually started on New Year's Day. In 1957, the top division in Sweden resumed in December, and the Saint Stephen's Day marked the first day of seasons between 1957 and 1961, (the 1962 season began on December 31). From 1963–64 onwards the season began earlier in December, and since the 1966–67 season games have started in November.\n\nThere have been efforts, most notably in 1994, to revive New Year's bandy and was itself a major event. However, the New Year's game has not been played in the top-tier of the league since the 1981–82 season.\n\nStill by 1999, Saint Stephen's Day bandy was the only major sports event over Christmas in Sweden. Starting in the year 2000, it its popularity led other sports to follow, such as handball and ice hockey. Nowadays, people sometimes instead talk of \"Saint Stephen's Day sports\" ().\n"}
{"id": "526647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526647", "title": "Silver medal", "text": "Silver medal\n\nA silver medal in sports and other similar areas involving competition is a medal made of, or plated with, silver awarded to the second-place finisher, or runner-up, of contests or competitions such as the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, etc. The outright winner receives a gold medal and the third place a bronze medal. More generally, silver is traditionally a metal sometimes used for all types of high-quality medals, including artistic ones.\n\nSome governments award military and civilian decorations called Silver Medals. Silver medals can also be awarded by private organizations for achievements in their fields.\n\nIn 1896, winners' medals were in fact silver. The custom of gold-silver-bronze for the first three places dates from the 1904 games and has been copied for many other sporting events. Minting the medals is the responsibility of the host city. From 1928–1968 the design was always the same: the obverse showed a generic design by Florentine artist Giuseppe Cassioli with text giving the host city; the reverse showed another generic design of an Olympic champion. From 1972–2000, Cassioli's design (or a slight reworking) remained on the obverse with a custom design by the host city on the reverse. Noting that Cassioli's design showed a Roman amphitheatre for what was originally a Greek games, a new obverse design was commissioned for the Athens 2004 Games. Winter Olympics medals have been of more varied design.\n\nIn The Open Championship golf tournament, the Silver Medal is an award presented to the lowest scoring amateur player at the tournament.\n\nSilver medalists were known to suffer \"self-recrimination and gold medal envy\", particularly those who had lost championship games or missed out of the title by a close score, whereas bronze medalists were usually happy just to make the podium. In many sports with an elimination tournament, including those with a third place playoff (such as Olympic ice hockey, Olympic soccer, FIFA World Cup), silver is the only medal given to a team that loses, whereas gold and bronze are earned by teams winning their final matches. \n\nNotable athletes such as Lothar Matthäus (1999 UEFA Champions League Final) and Jocelyne Larocque (2018 Olympics) removed their runners-up/silver medals right after receiving them; Larocque was later ordered by the International Ice Hockey Federation official to put her silver medal back on.\n\nThere were some notable exceptions; for instance Elizabeth Manley (1988) and Paul Wylie (1992) were pleased to win silver medals in their respective Olympic figure skating disciplines after not expected to be podium contenders entering the competition.\n\nSome countries present military and civilian decorations known as Silver Medals. These include:\n\n\nThe Zoological Society of London awards a Silver Medal \"to a Fellow of the Society or any other person for contributions to the understanding and appreciation of zoology, including such activities as public education in natural history, and wildlife conservation.\"\n\nThe Royal Academy of Engineering awards a Silver Medal \"for an outstanding and demonstrated personal contribution to UK engineering, which results in successful market exploitation, by an engineer with less than 22 years in full-time employment or equivalent.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10448601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10448601", "title": "Stance (martial arts)", "text": "Stance (martial arts)\n\nIn martial arts, stances are the distribution, foot orientation and body positions (particularly the legs and torso) adopted when attacking, defending, advancing or retreating.\nIn many Asian martial arts, the most widely used stance is a shallow standing squat. This position is generally employed as it is a neutral and agile position from which both attacks and defences may be launched. It provides for the delivery of force when attacking and stability when defending.\n\nStances vary greatly in their application and form. In general, stances may be described in a number of ways:\n\nThis refers to the lateral distance between the lead and rear foot. In general, open stances are more stable than closed stances. However, open stances leave one vulnerable to groin attacks and expose a larger portion of the body to an opponent.\n\nThis refers to the distance from the lead foot to the rear foot. Short stances make the user very agile, but can be unstable. Long stances are very stable, but this is at the expense of agility. Most stances are approximately as wide as the shoulders, though there is significant variation between styles.\n\nThis refers to the bend in the knees and height relative to a normal standing position. Low stances are very powerful and assist delivery of power through the body to either the arms or the legs. High stances are more mobile and allow one to reposition rapidly.\n\nUnweighted stances are those where half of one's bodyweight is on each foot. Forward-weighted or backward-weighted stances place most of body weight on either the rear or the lead foot, respectively. Forward-weighted stances are more aggressive, allowing stronger punches and kicks because one's weight is already forward. Alternatively, backward-weighted stances are more defensive, allowing one to fall back more easily.\n\nMost disciplines have one major stance that they regularly employ (generally from a standard guard position), and many variations of this standard stance which incorporate various combinations of open/closed, long/short, high/low or weighted/unweighted. Typically, martial arts do not teach fighting stances until students have developed other basic skills.\n\nIt is very common in the martial arts to describe stances and the transitions between them in terms of triangles, squares and circles. This is often done in conjunction with attempts to gain positional advantage or gain control of the balance of an opponent. In addition, in many styles, specific stances are adopted either for attack or for defence. In addition, many stances are used purely for training, or as progressions to more advanced and practical stances learnt later on.\n\n\"Stances are the position from which all attacking and defensive moves begin. They combine balance, defence and readiness. A good basic stance is essential\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51547933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51547933", "title": "The Happy Warrior (1925 film)", "text": "The Happy Warrior (1925 film)\n\nThe Happy Warrior is a 1925 American silent drama film directed by J. Stuart Blackton and starring Malcolm McGregor, Alice Calhoun and Mary Alden. The story had previously been turned into a 1917 British film of the same title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31470489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31470489", "title": "Thuuz", "text": "Thuuz\n\nThuuz (derived from the word \"enthusiast\") is a sports discovery service that alerts users to sporting events via a proprietary \"excitement rating.\"\n\nThe Thuuz website was launched September 2010 to help sports fans solve the problem of information overload by identifying the best content \"...like your buddy who calls and tells you there’s a great game going on,\" according to Thuuz CEO Warren Packard.\n\nOn 15 September 2011, Thuuz released mobile applications for iOS and Android devices.\n\nBeginning with the 2012 NFL season, Thuuz upgraded its apps to support fantasy sports, alerting fantasy team owners to news, plays and scoring involving their players.\n\nThuuz raised $4.2 million in Series A capital funding in September 2012. They raised another $6.5 million in funding in June 2017.\n\nThuuz attempts to create an objective rating for each game by analyzing live feeds of play-by-play statistics, and measuring six different factors: pace, parity, momentum, social media buzz, novelty, and context. Proprietary algorithms process this data and rate games on a color-coded 0-100 point excitement scale. The score 0-39 is rated as \"dull\", 40-64 as \"OK\", 65-84 as \"Good\" and 85-100 as \"Great\" with the color becomes darker red as the score increases. Real-time and archived game ratings are displayed. Thuuz also forecasts the ratings for the upcoming games as well.\n\nThuuz sends registered fans live alerts by SMS text or email, permitting a user to tune into a game of interest. Fans may personalize the sports and leagues they are interested in, list favorite teams, and the level of excitement at which they wish to receive an alert.\n\nThuuz has teamed with partners such as Dish Network and Google TV to integrate Thuuz ratings with televised sports, helping interactive TV viewers to discover, watch, and record exciting games.\n\nPost-game ratings provide guidance for fans who have recorded multiple events for time-shifted viewing or who wish to watch televised or online replays. Game results are not displayed, so fans can choose the best games to watch without losing the element of suspense, and avoid wasting time on games that turn out to be dull. Thuuz will also suggest the best point in each game to start watching.\n\nThuuz also employs its algorithms to offer predictions on which upcoming games are anticipated to be most exciting.\n\nBy aggregating minute-by-minute excitement ratings over the course of a season, Thuuz generates lists of the most exciting games, teams, leagues performances, and players which offer a different perspective than traditional statistics.\n\nTheir sole competitor is Are You Watching This?!.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22589615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589615", "title": "Tovio", "text": "Tovio\n\nTovio is a Burkinabé sportswear and equipment supplier was founded on 1994 in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3754982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3754982", "title": "United Soccer Conference", "text": "United Soccer Conference\n\nThe United Soccer Conference was an NCAA Division I conference founded in 2005 whose members competed in the sport of women's soccer. On February 10, 2007 New Jersey Institute of Technology joined the conference, however later that year on July 1, 2007 Indiana Purdue-Fort Wayne, North Dakota State, and South Dakota State left the conference and joined The Summit League. On February 12, 2009 it was announced that the Great West Conference would add Delaware State, Howard, and South Carolina State as associate members to compete in a soccer conference with Houston Baptist, NJIT, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Utah Valley beginning with the 2009-2010 school year. This left Longwood to compete as an independent for the 2009-10 school year, and caused the United Soccer Conference to fold.\n\nCharter members of the conference were Delaware State, Howard, IPFW, Longwood, South Carolina State, and Utah Valley\n\nReplica Soccer Jerseys\n"}
{"id": "12055737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12055737", "title": "University Stadium (Winnipeg)", "text": "University Stadium (Winnipeg)\n\nUniversity Stadium is a multipurpose stadium located on the campus grounds of the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. It features a 400m 8-lane track, as well as separate areas for long jump/triple jump, high jump, pole vault, discus, hammer, shot put, and javelin. Inside the track is a large natural grass field used for football and soccer. The stadium was home to the Manitoba Bisons football team until the team relocated next door to Investors Group Field in 2013.\n\nThe stadium was originally constructed as the track and field venue for the 1967 Pan American Games. After the games, the stadium was turned over to the University of Manitoba and became home to the university's football team and track and field program. It was upgraded in 1973 and later again prior to the 1999 Pan American Games, when a new track and other facilities were installed. The stadium has a permanent seating capacity of 5,000, which has been augmented with temporary seating during major events. The facility is wheelchair accessible, has an adjacent parking lot, and is served by public transit.\n\n"}
{"id": "32480554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32480554", "title": "Westfalenstadion", "text": "Westfalenstadion\n\nWestfalenstadion () is a football stadium in Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, which is the home of Borussia Dortmund. Officially called Signal Iduna Park for sponsorship reasons, the name derives from the former Prussian province of Westphalia.\n\nThe stadium is one of the most famous football grounds in Europe and is renowned for its atmosphere. It has a league capacity of 81,365 (standing and seated) and an international capacity of 65,829 (seated only). It is Germany's largest stadium, the seventh-largest in Europe, and the third-largest home to a top-flight European club after Camp Nou and the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium. It holds the European record for average fan attendance, set in the 2011–2012 season with almost 1.37 million spectators over 17 games at an average of 80,588 per game. Sales of annual season tickets amounted to 55,000 in 2015.\n\nThe 24,454 capacity \"Südtribüne\" (South Bank) is the largest terrace for standing spectators in European football. Famous for the intense atmosphere it breeds, the south terrace has been nicknamed the \"Yellow Wall\". The Borusseum, the museum of Borussia Dortmund, is near the stadium.\n\nThe stadium hosted matches in the 1974 and 2006 FIFA World Cups. It also hosted the 2001 UEFA Cup Final. Various national friendlies and qualification matches for World and European tournaments have been played there as well as matches in European club competitions.\n\nPlans to construct a new stadium were drawn up in the 1960s, as the need arose to expand and refurbish the traditional ground of Borussia Dortmund, the Stadion Rote Erde (\"Red Soil Stadium\"). Following the historic triumph in the 1966 Cup Winners' Cup (Dortmund was the first German team to win a European club title), it became clear that the Stadion Rote Erde was too small for the increasing number of Borussia Dortmund supporters. The city of Dortmund, however, was not able to finance a new stadium and federal institutions were unwilling to help.\n\nIn 1971, Dortmund was selected to replace the city of Cologne, which was forced to withdraw its plans to host games in the 1974 FIFA World Cup. The funds originally set aside for the projected stadium in Cologne were thus re-allocated to Dortmund. However, architects and planners had to keep an eye on the costs due to a tight budget. This meant that plans for a 60 million DM oval stadium featuring the traditional athletic facilities and holding 60,000 spectators had to be discarded. Instead, plans for a much cheaper 54,000 spectator football arena, built of pre-fabricated concrete sections, became a reality. Ultimately, the costs amounted to 32.7 million DM, of which 1.6 million DM were invested in the refurbishment of the Stadion Rote Erde. The city of Dortmund, initially burdened with 6 million DM, only had to pay 800,000 DM, and quickly profited from the stadium's high revenues.\nOn 2 April 1974, Borussia Dortmund officially moved into their new home and has played in the Westfalenstadion ever since. Having been relegated in 1972, Borussia Dortmund was the only member of the 2. Bundesliga (second Division) to host the 1974 World Cup games in a completely new stadium. In 1976, after promotion to the Bundesliga, Borussia Dortmund played its first game in Germany's highest division in their new home stadium.\n\nOn 16 May 2001, the Westfalenstadion hosted the 2001 UEFA Cup Final between Liverpool and Alavés.\n\nIn the 1974 FIFA World Cup, the Westfalenstadion hosted three group stage games and one final group game. The maximum capacity of the stadium was 54,000.\n\nThe stadium was one of the venues for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Due to sponsorship contracts, however, the arena was called \"FIFA World Cup Stadium Dortmund\" during the World Cup.\n\nSix games were played there during the tournament, including Germany's first loss ever at the stadium, a 2–0 defeat to Italy. Also, Trinidad and Tobago played their first ever World Cup match at the stadium, against Sweden.\n\nSituated directly next to Stadion Rote Erde, the Westfalenstadion is composed of four roofed grandstands, each facing the playing field on the east, south, west and north sides. The eastern and western stands (Ost- und Westtribüne) run the entire length of the field, while the breadth is covered by the north and south stands (Nord- und Südtribüne).\n\nOriginally, the corners between the four grandstands remained empty and the spectators appreciated the extensive roof, which covered over 80% of the stands. The eastern and western stands housed the stadium's 17,000 seats, while the 37,000 standing places were housed in the northern and southern stands.\n\nLocated on the southern terrace of the stadium is Dortmund's \"Yellow Wall\", which is the largest free-standing grandstand in Europe with a capacity of 25,000. The \"Yellow Wall\" gives Westfalenstadion one of the most intimidating home atmospheres in all of Europe, aiding Borussia Dortmund to an unbeaten home campaign in the UEFA Champions League in 2012–13.\n\nThe first expansion plans are dated back to 1961, although the funding required was not available until 4 October 1971 when the city council decided to rebuild the stadium between 1971 and 1974 for the FIFA World Cup. As part of the extensions an additional roof was added around the stadium that weighed 3000 tons.\n\nThe original capacity of 54,000 was reduced in 1992 due to UEFA regulations. As the standing rows on the entire northern, the lower eastern and the lower western grandstands were converted into seats, the capacity shrank to 42,800. With 26,000 seats (of which 23,000 were covered), the seating in the Westfalenstadion now outnumbered the standing rows.\nAfter Borussia Dortmund won the Bundesliga in 1995, the Westfalenstadion was expanded yet again. In the first private venture stadium expansion in German history, the two main grandstands, the eastern and the western blocks, received a second tier. Covered by a new roof-construction, each section housed an additional 6,000 seats. Thus, the stadium's capacity was restored to the original 54,000, of which the majority (38,500) were now covered seats. Following Dortmund's 1997 UEFA Champions League victory, success and an ever-growing number of enthusiastic fans made it necessary to enlarge the Westfalenstadion yet again. The southern and northern grandstands were enlarged this time, boosting the total capacity to 68,800 spectators. The southern standing ranks (\"Die Südtribüne\", where the home team's supporters gather) became the largest free-standing grandstand of its kind in the whole of Europe, with a capacity of 25,000.\nNow it is considered one of the biggest and most comfortable stadiums in Europe. The last renovation was made for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. The stadium has a glass front, under-soil heating (allowing matches in winter) and the biggest terraced stand. It is Germany’s largest stadium capacity of 81,360. The expansion was realised by the German architectural firm of Architekten Schröder Schulte-Ladbeck. There are four video screens inside the stadium. The fifth screen on the outside of the north stands is smaller, measuring 28 square meters.\n\nSince 1 December 2005, Westfalenstadion carries the name of Signal Iduna Park, under an agreement which lasts until 2021.\n\nWhen Germany won the World Cup bid in 2000, it became clear that Westfalenstadion would play a leading role in hosting the tournament. However, as the Westfalenstadion failed to fulfill FIFA requirements for hosting semi-finals, it had to be enlarged a third time. Four new stands were built to fill the corners between the existing grandstands, raising the seating capacity for international games from 52,000 to 67,000. Additionally, the new corner elements provide seating and catering to VIP guests, increasing the total number of VIP seats to 5,000. In order to provide the new sections with an unblocked view of the field, the existing interior roof supports were removed and replaced by exterior pylons, which were painted yellow to suit the Borussia Dortmund colors. During the course of those renovations, construction workers found an undetonated 1,000–pound (450 kg) bomb dropped by an Allied bomber in World War II that was only about one metre below the halfway line on the pitch. Bomb disposal experts had to evacuate the stadium and surrounding neighbourhood in Dortmund, which as part of Germany's industrial centre was bombed heavily, before taking an hour to defuse the device.\n\nThe stadium now hosts up to 81,365 fans (standing and seated) for league matches, and 65,829 seated spectators for international games. For these, the characteristic Southern grandstand is re-equipped with seats to conform with FIFA regulations.\n\nThe Stadium is set to undergo some renovation works in 2018 with the stadium's capacity to rise to 81,365 for Bundesliga Matches and 66,099 for international matches.\n\nThe property of the Westfalenstadion, originally belonging to the city of Dortmund and later sold to the club Borussia Dortmund, was sold to a real estate trust in 2002 when the club was facing serious financial problems. Following that, Westfalenstadion was in the possession of Florian Homm for about two years, it was sold back to a real estate trust with Borussia Dortmund intending to repurchase the stadium gradually up to 2017. However the club was not able to pay the regular rates in spring 2005 and the holders of the trust agreed in cutting back the asset's interest rates and allowed the club to pay the rates after financial reorganisation. Because of these measures, bankruptcy of the club was avoided and the future of the facility was secured. In 2006 Borussia Dortmund became the new owner by buying the stadium back with the help of a loan from Morgan Stanley.\n\nIn order to reduce debt, the naming rights to the stadium was sold to an insurance company, Signal Iduna. From 2005 until 2021, the stadium will be known as the \"Signal Iduna Park\". During the 2006 World Cup, however, the stadium was called \"FIFA World Cup Stadium Dortmund\", since FIFA controls all naming rights in connection with the World Cup.\n\nSignal Iduna Park can be reached with the Dortmund Stadtbahn (light rail) lines U42 (\"Theodor-Fliedner-Heim\" Station), U45 (\"Stadion\" Station), U46 (\"Westfalenhallen\" Station and also \"Stadion\"). The U45 and U46 are unique in that they serve the special station, \"Stadion\", that is open on game days only. Additionally \"Deutsche Bahn\" serves the \"Dortmund Signal-Iduna-Park\" station with both regularly scheduled and special game-day trains. This station can be reached using regional RB trains from Dortmund Central Station, as well as from other cities in the metropolitan area, such as Hagen, Iserlohn, and Lüdenscheid. However, some supporters usually alight the U42 and S4 at the \"Möllerbrücke\" station and walk to Signal Iduna Park through the \"Kreuzviertel\" via \"Lindemannstraße\" or \"Arneckestraße\".\n\nThe stadium can be reached from Dortmund Airport by taking the shuttle bus to the Holzwickede/Dortmund Airport train station, taking train towards Dortmund Central Station and getting out at \"Signal Iduna Park\".\n\nBy car the stadium can be reached via the B 1 \"Ruhrschnellweg\" and B 54. Parking is also available at Dortmund University of Technology, where shuttle busses take fans to the stadium.\n\nFrom the subway station \"Möllerbrücke\" visitors approach the stadium through the Kreuzviertel. It is well known for its many bars, clubs, pubs, and cafes, concentrated in the vicinity of Kreuzstraße and Vinkeplatz and create a day and nightlife atmosphere unique from the rest of the city. That's the reason why the subway station and the city quarter is popular by local fans and those visiting of Borussia Dortmund as a last resort for drinking a cheep beer in the numerous Pubs around the Stadium. On match days, many traders sell beer, sausages (Bratwurst) and jerseys on the street\n\nOn the other side of the Autobahn, the Trade fair with its Westfalenhallen and TV Tower called Florianturm affords a marvellous view on the stadium.\n\n\n"}
