{"id": "57979882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57979882", "title": "Apollo and Marsyas (Ribera)", "text": "Apollo and Marsyas (Ribera)\n\nApollo and Marsyas is the title of a 1637 painting by the Spanish artist José de Ribera, now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Belgium. Other versions are now in the Museo di Capodimonte and the Naples Archaeological Museum. They all show the Caravaggisti's heavy influence on the artist and depict Marsyas' flaying by Apollo.\n\n"}
{"id": "15893057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15893057", "title": "Applications of artificial intelligence", "text": "Applications of artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence, defined as intelligence exhibited by machines, has many applications in today's society. More specifically, it is Weak AI, the form of A.I. where programs are developed to perform specific tasks, that is being utilized for a wide range of activities including medical diagnosis, electronic trading, robot control, and remote sensing. AI has been used to develop and advance numerous fields and industries, including finance, healthcare, education, transportation, and more.\n\nAI for Good is a movement in which institutions are employing AI to tackle some of the world's greatest economic and social challenges. For example, the University of Southern California launched the Center for Artificial Intelligence in Society, with the goal of using AI to address socially relevant problems such as homelessness. At Stanford, researchers are using AI to analyze satellite images to identify which areas have the highest poverty levels.\n\nThe Air Operations Division (AOD) uses AI for the rule based expert systems. The AOD has use for artificial intelligence for surrogate operators for combat and training simulators, mission management aids, support systems for tactical decision making, and post processing of the simulator data into symbolic summaries.\n\nThe use of artificial intelligence in simulators is proving to be very useful for the AOD. Airplane simulators are using artificial intelligence in order to process the data taken from simulated flights. Other than simulated flying, there is also simulated aircraft warfare. The computers are able to come up with the best success scenarios in these situations. The computers can also create strategies based on the placement, size, speed and strength of the forces and counter forces. Pilots may be given assistance in the air during combat by computers. The artificial intelligent programs can sort the information and provide the pilot with the best possible maneuvers, not to mention getting rid of certain maneuvers that would be impossible for a human being to perform. Multiple aircraft are needed to get good approximations for some calculations so computer simulated pilots are used to gather data. These computer simulated pilots are also used to train future air traffic controllers.\n\nThe system used by the AOD in order to measure performance was the Interactive Fault Diagnosis and Isolation System, or IFDIS. It is a rule based expert system put together by collecting information from TF-30 documents and the expert advice from mechanics that work on the TF-30. This system was designed to be used for the development of the TF-30 for the RAAF F-111C. The performance system was also used to replace specialized workers. The system allowed the regular workers to communicate with the system and avoid mistakes, miscalculations, or having to speak to one of the specialized workers.\n\nThe AOD also uses artificial intelligence in speech recognition software. The air traffic controllers are giving directions to the artificial pilots and the AOD wants to the pilots to respond to the ATC's with simple responses. The programs that incorporate the speech software must be trained, which means they use neural networks. The program used, the Verbex 7000, is still a very early program that has plenty of room for improvement. The improvements are imperative because ATCs use very specific dialog and the software needs to be able to communicate correctly and promptly every time.\n\nThe Artificial Intelligence supported Design of Aircraft, or AIDA, is used to help designers in the process of creating conceptual designs of aircraft. This program allows the designers to focus more on the design itself and less on the design process. The software also allows the user to focus less on the software tools. The AIDA uses rule based systems to compute its data. This is a diagram of the arrangement of the AIDA modules. Although simple, the program is proving effective.\n\nIn 2003, NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center, and many other companies, created software that could enable a damaged aircraft to continue flight until a safe landing zone can be reached. The software compensates for all the damaged components by relying on the undamaged components. The neural network used in the software proved to be effective and marked a triumph for artificial intelligence.\n\nThe Integrated Vehicle Health Management system, also used by NASA, on board an aircraft must process and interpret data taken from the various sensors on the aircraft. The system needs to be able to determine the structural integrity of the aircraft. The system also needs to implement protocols in case of any damage taken the vehicle.\n\nHaitham Baomar and Peter Bentley are leading a team from the University College of London to develop an artificial intelligence based Intelligent Autopilot System (IAS) designed to teach an autopilot system to behave like a highly experienced pilot who is faced with an emergency situation such as severe weather, turbulence, or system failure. Educating the autopilot relies on the concept of supervised machine learning “which treats the young autopilot as a human apprentice going to a flying school”. The autopilot records the actions of the human pilot generating learning models using artificial neural networks. The autopilot is then given full control and observed by the pilot as it executes the training exercise.\n\nThe Intelligent Autopilot System combines the principles of Apprenticeship Learning and Behavioural Cloning whereby the autopilot observes the low-level actions required to maneuver the airplane and high-level strategy used to apply those actions. IAS implementation employs three phases; pilot data collection, training, and autonomous control. Baomar and Bentley’s goal is to create a more autonomous autopilot to assist pilots in responding to emergency situations.\n\nAI researchers have created many tools to solve the most difficult problems in computer science. Many of their inventions have been adopted by mainstream computer science and are no longer considered a part of AI. (See AI effect.) According to , all of the following were originally developed in AI laboratories:\ntime sharing,\ninteractive interpreters,\ngraphical user interfaces and the computer mouse,\nrapid development environments,\nthe linked list data structure,\nautomatic storage management,\nsymbolic programming,\nfunctional programming,\ndynamic programming and\nobject-oriented programming.\n\nAI can be used to potentially determine the developer of anonymous binaries.\n\nAI can be used to create other AI. For example, around November 2017, Google's AutoML project to evolve new neural net topologies created NASNet, a system optimized for ImageNet and COCO. According to Google, NASNet's performance exceeded all previously published ImageNet performance.\n\nThere are a number of companies that create robots to teach subjects to children ranging from biology to computer science, though such tools have not become widespread yet. There have also been a rise of intelligent tutoring systems, or ITS, in higher education. For example, an ITS called SHERLOCK teaches Air Force technicians to diagnose electrical systems problems in aircraft. Another example is DARPA, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which used AI to develop a digital tutor to train its Navy recruits in technical skills in a shorter amount of time. Universities have been slow in adopting AI technologies due to either a lack of funding or skepticism of the effectiveness of these tools, but in the coming years more classrooms will be utilizing technologies such as ITS to complement teachers.\n\nAdvancements in natural language processing, combined with machine learning, have also enabled automatic grading of assignments as well as a data-driven understanding of individual students’ learning needs. This led to an explosion in popularity of MOOCs, or Massive Open Online Courses, which allows students from around the world to take classes online. Data sets collected from these large scale online learning systems have also enabled learning analytics, which will be used to improve the quality of learning at scale. Examples of how learning analytics can be used to improve the quality of learning include predicting which students are at risk of failure and analyzing student engagement.\n\nAlgorithmic trading involves the use of complex AI systems to make trading decisions at speeds several orders of magnitudes greater than any human is capable of, often making millions of trades in a day without any human intervention. Such trading is called High-frequency Trading, and it represents one of the fastest growing sectors in financial trading. Many banks, funds, and proprietary trading firms now have entire portfolios which are managed purely by AI systems. Automated trading systems are typically used by large institutional investors, but recent years have also seen an influx of smaller, proprietary firms trading with their own AI systems.\n\nSeveral large financial institutions have invested in AI engines to assist with their investment practices. BlackRock’s AI engine, Aladdin, is used both within the company and to clients to help with investment decisions. Its wide range of functionalities includes the use of natural language processing to read text such as news, broker reports, and social media feeds. It then gauges the sentiment on the companies mentioned and assigns a score. Banks such as UBS and Deutsche Bank use an AI engine called Sqreem (Sequential Quantum Reduction and Extraction Model) which can mine data to develop consumer profiles and match them with the wealth management products they’d most likely want. Goldman Sachs uses Kensho, a market analytics platform that combines statistical computing with big data and natural language processing. Its machine learning systems mine through hoards of data on the web and assess correlations between world events and their impact on asset prices.\nInformation Extraction, part of artificial intelligence, is used to extract information from live news feed and to assist with investment decisions.\n\nSeveral products are emerging that utilize AI to assist people with their personal finances. For example, Digit is an app powered by artificial intelligence that automatically helps consumers optimize their spending and savings based on their own personal habits and goals. The app can analyze factors such as monthly income, current balance, and spending habits, then make its own decisions and transfer money to the savings account. Wallet.AI, an upcoming startup in San Francisco, builds agents that analyze data that a consumer would leave behind, from Smartphone check-ins to tweets, to inform the consumer about their spending behavior.\n\nRobo-advisors are becoming more widely used in the investment management industry. Robo-advisors provide financial advice and portfolio management with minimal human intervention. This class of financial advisers work based on algorithms built to automatically develop a financial portfolio according to the investment goals and risk tolerance of the clients. It can adjust to real-time changes in the market and accordingly calibrate the portfolio.\n\nAn online lender, Upstart, analyze vast amounts of consumer data and utilizes machine learning algorithms to develop credit risk models that predict a consumer’s likelihood of default. Their technology will be licensed to banks for them to leverage for their underwriting processes as well.\n\nZestFinance developed their Zest Automated Machine Learning (ZAML) Platform specifically for credit underwriting as well. This platform utilizes machine learning to analyze tens of thousands traditional and nontraditional variables (from purchase transactions to how a customer fills out a form) used in the credit industry to score borrowers. The platform is particularly useful to assign credit scores to those with limited credit histories, such as millennials.\n\nIn a paper by Fivos Papadimitriou (2012), he describes a system written in Prolog which can be used to provide the user with information about the transformations of Mediterranean-type landscapes in an interactive way, allow the modelling of causes and effects of landscape transformations (such as land degradation) and forecast future landscape changes.\n\nThe job market has seen a notable change due to Artificial intelligence implementation. It has simplified the process for both recruiters and job seekers (i.e., Google for Jobs and applying online). According to Raj Mukherjee from Indeed.com, 65% of people launch a job search again within 91 days of being hired. AI-powered engine streamlines the complexity of job hunting by operating information on job skills, salaries, and user tendencies, matching people to the most relevant positions. Machine intelligence calculates what wages would be appropriate for a particular job, pulls and highlights resume information for recruiters using natural language processing, which extracts relevant words and phrases from text using specialized software. Another application is an AI resume builder which requires 5 minutes to compile a CV as opposed to spending hours doing the same job.\nIn the AI age chatbots assist website visitors and solve daily workflows. Revolutionary AI tools complement people’s skills and allow HR managers to focus on tasks of higher priority. However, Artificial Intelligence impact on jobs research suggests that by 2030 intelligent agents and robots can eliminate 30% of the world’s human labor. Moreover, the research proves automation will displace between 400 and 800 million employees. Glassdoor`s research report states that recruiting and HR are expected to see much broader adoption of AI in job market 2018 and beyond.\n\nRobots have become common in many industries and are often given jobs that are considered dangerous to humans. Robots have proven effective in jobs that are very repetitive which may lead to mistakes or accidents due to a lapse in concentration and other jobs which humans may find degrading.\n\nIn 2014, China, Japan, the United States, the Republic of Korea and Germany together amounted to 70% of the total sales volume of robots. In the automotive industry, a sector with particularly high degree of automation, Japan had the highest density of industrial robots in the world: per employees.\n\nArtificial neural networks are used as clinical decision support systems for medical diagnosis, such as in Concept Processing technology in EMR software.\n\nOther tasks in medicine that can potentially be performed by artificial intelligence and are beginning to be developed include:\n\nCurrently, there are over 90 AI startups in the health industry working in these fields.\n\nIDx's first solution, IDx-DR, is the first autonomous AI-based diagnostic system authorized for commercialization by the FDA.\n\nAnother application of AI is in the human resources and recruiting space. There are three ways AI is being used by human resources and recruiting professionals. AI is used to screen resumes and rank candidates according to their level of qualification. Ai is also used to predict candidate success in given roles through job matching platforms. And now, AI is rolling out recruiting chat bots that can automate repetitive communication tasks.\n\nTypically, resume screening involves a recruiter or other HR professional scanning through a database of resumes. Now startups like Pomato, are creating machine learning algorithms to automate resume screening processes. Pomato’s resume screening AI focuses on automating validating technical applicants for technical staffing firms. Pomato’ s AI performs over 200,000 computations on each resume in seconds then designs a custom technical interview based on the mined skills. KE Solutions, founded in 2014, has developed recommendation systems to rank jobs for candidates, and rank resumes for employers. jobster.io, developed by KE Solutions uses concept-based search has increased accuracy by 80% compared to traditional ATS. It helps recruiters to overcome technical barriers.\n\nFrom 2016 to 2017, consumer goods company Unilever used artificial intelligence to screen all entry level employees. Unilever’s AI used neuroscience based games, recorded interviews, and facial/speech analysis to predict hiring success. Unilever partnered with Pymetrics and HireVue to enable its novel AI based screening and increased their applicants from 15,000 to 30,000 in a single year. Recruiting with AI also produced Unililever’s “most diverse class to date.’ Unilever also decreased time to hire from 4 months to 4 weeks and saved over 50,000 hours of recruiter time.\n\nFrom resume screening to neuroscience, speech recognition, and facial analysis...it’s clear AI is having a massive impact on the human resources field. Yet another development in AI is in recruiting chatbots. TextRecruit, a Bay Area startup, released Ari (automated recruiting interface.) Ari is a recruiting chatbot that is designed to hold two-way text message conversations with candidates. Ari automates posting jobs, advertising openings, screening candidates, scheduling interviews, and nurturing candidate relationships with updates as they progress along the hiring funnel. Ari is currently offered as part of TextRecruit’s candidate engagement platform.\n\nSome AI applications are geared towards the analysis of audiovisual media content such as movies, TV programs, advertisement videos or user-generated content. The solutions often involve computer vision, which is a major application area of AI.\n\nTypical use case scenarios include the analysis of images using object recognition or face recognition techniques, or the analysis of video for recognizing relevant scenes, objects or faces. The motivation for using AI-based media analysis can be — among other things — the facilitation of media search, the creation of a set of descriptive keywords for a media item, media content policy monitoring (such as verifying the suitability of content for a particular TV viewing time), speech to text for archival or other purposes, and the detection of logos, products or celebrity faces for the placement of relevant advertisements.\n\nMedia analysis AI companies often provide their services over a REST API that enables machine-based automatic access to the technology and allows machine-reading of the results. For example, IBM, Microsoft, Amazon and the video AI company Valossa allow access to their media recognition technology by using RESTful APIs.\n\nAI is also widely used in E-commerce Industry for applications like Visual search, Visually similar recommendation, Chatbots, Automated product tagging etc. Another generic application is to increase search discoverability and making social media content shoppable.\n\nWhile the evolution of music has always been affected by technology, artificial intelligence has enabled, through scientific advances, to emulate, at some extent, human-like composition.\n\nAmong notable early efforts, David Cope created an AI called Emily Howell that managed to become well known in the field of Algorithmic Computer Music. The algorithm behind Emily Howell is registered as a US patent.\n\nThe AI Iamus created 2012 the first complete classical album fully composed by a computer.\n\nOther endeavours, like AIVA (Artificial Intelligence Virtual Artist), focus on composing symphonic music, mainly classical music for film scores. It achieved a world first by becoming the first virtual composer to be recognized by a musical professional association.\n\nArtificial intelligences can even produce music usable in a medical setting, with Melomics’s effort to use computer-generated music for stress and pain relief.\n\nMoreover, initiatives such as Google Magenta, conducted by the Google Brain team, want to find out if an artificial intelligence can be capable of creating compelling art.\n\nAt Sony CSL Research Laboratory, their Flow Machines software has created pop songs by learning music styles from a huge database of songs. By analyzing unique combinations of styles and optimizing techniques, it can compose in any style.\n\nAnother artificial intelligence musical composition project, The Watson Beat, written by IBM Research, doesn't need a huge database of music like the Google Magenta and Flow Machines projects, since it uses Reinforcement Learning and Deep Belief Networks to compose music on a simple seed input melody and a select style. Since the software has been open sourced musicians, such as Taryn Southern have been collaborating with the project to create music.\n\nThe company Narrative Science makes computer generated news and reports commercially available, including summarizing team sporting events based on statistical data from the game in English. It also creates financial reports and real estate analyses. Similarly, the company Automated Insights generates personalized recaps and previews for Yahoo Sports Fantasy Football. The company is projected to generate one billion stories in 2014, up from 350 million in 2013.\n\nEchobox is a software company that helps publishers increase traffic by 'intelligently' posting articles on social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. By analysing large amounts of data, it learns how specific audiences respond to different articles at different times of the day. It then chooses the best stories to post and the best times to post them. It uses both historical and real-time data to understand to what has worked well in the past as well as what is currently trending on the web.\n\nAnother company, called Yseop, uses artificial intelligence to turn structured data into intelligent comments and recommendations in natural language. Yseop is able to write financial reports, executive summaries, personalized sales or marketing documents and more at a speed of thousands of pages per second and in multiple languages including English, Spanish, French & German.\n\nBoomtrain’s is another example of AI that is designed to learn how to best engage each individual reader with the exact articles — sent through the right channel at the right time — that will be most relevant to the reader. It’s like hiring a personal editor for each individual reader to curate the perfect reading experience.\n\nIRIS.TV is another company that is helping media companies with its AI-powered video personalization and programming platform. It allows publishers and content owners to surface contextually relevant content to audiences based on consumer viewing patterns.\n\nBeyond automation of writing tasks given data input, AI has shown significant potential for computers to engage in higher-level creative work. AI Storytelling has been an active field of research since James Meehan's development of TALESPIN, which made up stories similar to the fables of Aesop. The program would start with a set of characters who wanted to achieve certain goals, with the story as a narration of the characters’ attempts at executing plans to satisfy these goals. Since Meehan, other researchers have worked on AI Storytelling using similar or different approaches. Mark Riedl and Vadim Bulitko argued that the essence of storytelling was an experience management problem, or \"how to balance the need for a coherent story progression with user agency, which are often at odds.\" \n\nWhile most research on AI storytelling has focused on story generation (e.g. character and plot), there has also been significant investigation in story communication. In 2002, researchers at North Carolina State University developed an architectural framework for narrative prose generation. Their particular implementation was able faithfully reproduced text variety and complexity of a number of stories, such as red riding hood, with human-like adroitness. This particular field continues to gain interest. In 2016, a Japanese AI co-wrote a short story and almost won a literary prize.\n\nArtificial intelligence is implemented in automated online assistants that can be seen as avatars on web pages. It can avail for enterprises to reduce their operation and training cost. A major underlying technology to such systems is natural language processing. Pypestream uses automated customer service for its mobile application designed to streamline communication with customers.\n\nCurrently, major companies are investing in AI to handle difficult customer in the future. Google's most recent development analyzes language and converts speech into text. The platform can identify angry customers through their language and respond appropriately.\n\nArtificial Intelligence has been combined with many sensor technologies, such as Digital Spectrometry by IdeaCuria Inc. which enables many applications such as at home water quality monitoring.\n\nMany telecommunications companies make use of\nheuristic search in the management of their workforces, for example BT Group has deployed heuristic search in a scheduling application that provides the work schedules of 20,000 engineers.\n\nThe 1990s saw some of the first attempts to mass-produce domestically aimed types of basic Artificial Intelligence for education, or leisure. This prospered greatly with the Digital Revolution, and helped introduce people, especially children, to a life of dealing with various types of Artificial Intelligence, specifically in the form of Tamagotchis and Giga Pets, iPod Touch, the Internet, and the first widely released robot, Furby. A mere year later an improved type of domestic robot was released in the form of Aibo, a robotic dog with intelligent features and autonomy.\n\nCompanies like Mattel have been creating an assortment of AI-enabled toys for kids as young as age three. Using proprietary AI engines and speech recognition tools, they are able to understand conversations, give intelligent responses and learn quickly.\n\nAI has also been applied to video games, for example video game bots, which are designed to stand in as opponents where humans aren't available or desired.\n\nFuzzy logic controllers have been developed for automatic gearboxes in automobiles. For example, the 2006 Audi TT, VW Touareg and VW Caravell feature the DSP transmission which utilizes Fuzzy Logic. A number of Škoda variants (Škoda Fabia) also currently include a Fuzzy Logic-based controller.\n\nToday's cars now have AI-based driver assist features such as self-parking and advanced cruise controls. AI has been used to optimize traffic management applications, which in turn reduces wait times, energy use, and emissions by as much as 25 percent. In the future, fully autonomous cars will be developed. AI in transportation is expected to provide safe, efficient, and reliable transportation while minimizing the impact on the environment and communities. The major challenge to developing this AI is the fact that transportation systems are inherently complex systems involving a very large number of components and different parties, each having different and often conflicting objectives.\n\nVarious tools of artificial intelligence are also being widely deployed in homeland security, speech and text recognition, data mining, and e-mail spam filtering. Applications are also being developed for gesture recognition (understanding of sign language by machines), individual voice recognition, global voice recognition (from a variety of people in a noisy room), facial expression recognition for interpretation of emotion and non verbal cues. Other applications are robot navigation, obstacle avoidance, and object recognition.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34658482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34658482", "title": "Basil Beaumont", "text": "Basil Beaumont\n\nBasil Beaumont (born 1669 died 1703), rear-admiral, was the fifth son, amongst the twenty-one children, of Sir Henry Beaumont, of Stoughton Grange and Cole Orton.\n\nOf his early service in the navy there is no record: it was short and uneventful, and on 28 October 1688 he was appointed lieutenant of the Portsmouth. Six months later, 21 April 1689, he was appointed captain of , which ship was lost in Plymouth Sound in a violent storm on 25 December of the same year. Although so young a captain, no blame attached to him. He was accordingly appointed, after some months, to , and early in 1692 was transferred to , in which ship he took part in the battle of Barfleur. He continued in the Rupert during the following year; and in 1694 commanded in the Mediterranean. In 1696 he commanded , in the fleet cruising in the English Channel and off Ushant, and was for a short time detached as commodore of an inshore squadron. He was afterwards transferred, at short intervals, to , , and , whilst in command of the squadron off Dunkirk, during the remainder of 1696 and till the peace. In November 1698 he was appointed to , and during the next year was senior officer at Spithead, with a special commission for commanding in chief and holding courts-martial (23 February 1699). In the end of August he was ordered to pay the ship off. He commissioned her again some months later, and continued in her for the next two years, for a great part of which time he lay in the Downs, commanding — as he wrote — \"a number of ships of consequence, with no small trouble and a good deal of charge\", on which he referred it to the lord high admiral, \"if this does not require more than barely commanding as the eldest captain\" (9 April 1702).\n\nHis application did not meet with immediate success; in June he was turned over to the Tilbury, and continued to command the squadron in the Downs, at the Nore, and in the North Sea, till, on 1 March 1702-3, he was promoted to rear-admiral, and directed to hoist his flag on board the HMS \"Mary\", then fitting out at Woolwich. His rank, not his service, was altered. During the summer he cruised in the North Sea and off Dunkirk, or convoyed the Baltic trade; on the approach of winter he returned to the Downs, where he anchored on 19 October. He was still there on 27 November, when the great storm (Great Storm of 1703) which \"o'er pale Britannia passed\", hurled the ship on to the Goodwin Sands. Every soul on board, the admiral included, was lost. The circumstances of his death have given to Beaumont's name a wider repute than his career as an officer would have otherwise entitled it to; his service throughout was creditable, without being distinguished; and the only remarkable point about it is that, after having held important commands, he attained flag-rank within fifteen years of his entry into the service, and when he was not yet thirty-four years of age.\n\nTwo younger brothers, who had also entered the navy, had previously died; one, William Villiers, a lieutenant, had died of fever in the West Indies, 17 July 1697; the other, Charles, was lost in the blowing up of the \"Carlisle\", 19 September 1700; and their mother, Lady Beaumont, after the death of the rear-admiral, memorialised the queen, praying for relief. As Lady Beaumont's second son, George, who, on the death of his elder brother, had succeeded to the title and estates, was unmarried and appointed a lord commissioner of the admiralty in 1714, the implied statement that the family was dependent on Basil is curious. The petition, however, was successful, and a pension of £50 a year was granted to each of the six daughters.\n\nBeaumont's portrait, by Michael Dahl, is in the Painted Hall at Greenwich, to which it was presented by King George IV; it is that of a comely young man.\n\nThese references are found in the DNB article referred to above.\n"}
{"id": "1750390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750390", "title": "Benedict Joseph Labre", "text": "Benedict Joseph Labre\n\nSaint Benedict Joseph Labre, T.O.S.F., () (25 March 1748 – 16 April 1783), was a French mendicant, Franciscan tertiary, and Catholic saint.\n\nLabre was born in 1748 in the village of Amettes, near Arras, in the former Province of Artois in the north of France. He was the eldest of fifteen children of a prosperous shopkeeper, Jean-Baptiste Labre, and his wife, Anne Grandsire.\n\nLabre had an uncle, a parish priest, living some distance from his family home; this uncle gladly received him, and undertook his early education for the priesthood. At the age of sixteen, he approached his uncle about becoming a Trappist monk, but his parents told him he would have to wait until he grew older. When Benedict was about eighteen, an epidemic fell upon the city, and uncle and nephew busied themselves in the service of the sick. While the uncle took care of the souls and bodies of the people, Benedict went to and fro caring for the cattle. He cleaned their stalls and fed them; exchanging the life of a farm laborer for that of a student under his uncle's roof. Among the last victims of the epidemic was the uncle himself.\n\nLabre set off for La Trappe Abbey to apply to the Order, but did not come up to their requirements. He was under age, he was too delicate; he had no special recommendations. He later attempted to join the Carthusians and Cistercians, but each order rejected him as unsuitable for communal life. He was, for about six weeks, a postulant with the Carthusians at Neuville. In November 1769 he obtained admission to the Cistercian Abbey of Sept-Fonts. After a short stay at Sept-Fonts his health gave way, and it was decided that his vocation lay elsewhere.\n\nLabre, according to Catholic tradition, experienced a desire, which he considered was given to him by God and inspired by the example of Saint Alexius of Rome and that of the holy Franciscan tertiary pilgrim, Saint Roch, to \"abandon his country, his parents, and whatever is flattering in the world to lead a new sort of life, a life most painful, most penitential, not in a wilderness nor in a cloister, but in the midst of the world, devoutly visiting as a pilgrim the famous places of Christian devotion.\"\n\nLabre joined the Third Order of Saint Francis and settled on a life of poverty and pilgrimage. He first traveled to Rome on foot, subsisting on what he could get by begging. He then traveled to most of the major shrines of Europe, often several times each. He visited the various shrines in Loreto, Assisi, Naples, and Bari in Italy, Einsiedeln in Switzerland, Paray-le-Monial in France, and Santiago de Compostela in Spain. During these trips he would always travel on foot, sleeping in the open or in a corner of a room, with his clothes muddy and ragged. On one occasion he stopped at the farmhouse of Matthieu and Marie Vianney, who would later become the parents of the future saint, the Curé d'Ars. He lived on what little he was given, and often shared the little he did receive with others. He is reported to have talked rarely, prayed often, and accepted quietly the abuse he received.\n\nIn so doing, Labre was following in the role of the mendicant, the \"Fool-for-Christ,\" found more often in the Eastern Church. He would often swoon when contemplating the crown of thorns, in particular, and, during these states, it is said he would levitate or bilocate. He was also said to have cured some of the other homeless he met and to have multiplied bread for them. In the last years of his life (his thirties), he lived in Rome, for a time living in the ruins of the Colosseum, and would leave only to make a yearly pilgrimage to the shrine of Our Lady of Loreto. He was a familiar figure in the city and known as the \"saint of the Forty Hours\" (or \"Quarant' Ore\") for his dedication to Eucharistic adoration.\n\nThe day before he died, Labre collapsed in the church of Santa Maria ai Monti, blocks from the Colosseum, and despite his protestations was charitably taken to a house behind the church at Via dei Serpenti 2. He died there of malnutrition on 16 April 1783, during Holy Week, and was buried in the Church of Santa Maria ai Monti.\n\nLabre's confessor, Marconi, wrote his biography and attributed 136 separate cures to his intercession within three months of his death. Those miracles were instrumental in the conversion of the Reverend John Thayer, the first American Protestant clergyman to convert to Catholicism, who was resident in Rome at the time of St. Benedict's death. A cult grew up around him very soon after his death, and he was declared Blessed by Blessed Pius IX in 1860, and later canonized by Pope Leo XIII in 1881. Benedict is patron saint of the homeless. His feast day is observed on April 16.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9613251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9613251", "title": "Bisho Massacre", "text": "Bisho Massacre\n\nThe Bisho Massacre occurred on 7 September 1992 in Bisho, in the then nominally independent homeland of Ciskei which is now part of the Eastern Cape in South Africa. Twenty-eight African National Congress supporters and one soldier were shot dead by the Ciskei Defence Force during a protest march when they attempted to enter Bisho (now renamed to Bhisho) to demand the reincorporation of Ciskei into South Africa during the final years of apartheid.\n\nBhisho (previously spelled \"Bisho\") was the capital of the Ciskei, a nominally independent homeland (bantustan) for the Xhosa people in South Africa. The government of Ciskei was formed in 1961 under the Bantu Authorities Act, 1951 after the South African government declared it a separate administrative territory. In 1972, the status was elevated to self-governing territory. This coincided with stronger efforts to forcibly remove Xhosa-speakers to Ciskei. On 4 December 1982, Ciskei became an independent republic, recognised only by the South African government and other 'independent' homeland states in South Africa. The system of racially segregated homelands had been a core of apartheid, but between 1990 and 1994, negotiations were taking place between the government of South Africa and the African National Congress (ANC) to end the apartheid system.\n\nWith multi-racial democratic elections as the likely outcome of the negotiations, the ANC wished to organise and mobilise its supporters in the Ciskei, particularly as it lay in the Eastern Cape area, a traditional stronghold for ANC supporters. However, its military leader Brigadier Oupa Gqozo resisted this and prevented the ANC from organising. In 1991, Gqozo formed the African Democratic Movement to counter the ANC in Ciskei. In December of the same year, he was part of the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (Codesa) negotiations. Codesa was a forum made up of government (National Party) and non-government interest groups to negotiate a new constitution and the transition to democracy in South Africa. In March 1992, Gqozo accused the ANC of planning to overthrow him and in August he stopped ANC marchers from entering Ciskei from King William’s Town, a town in South Africa, although close enough to Ciskei.\n\nOn 3 September, the ANC sent a memorandum to President F. W. de Klerk demanding that he replace Gqozo with an interim administration which would permit free democratic activity in Ciskei, but De Klerk refused, on the grounds that the Ciskei did not fall under South Africa's jurisdiction. At the time, negotiations had broken down, with the ANC withdrawing following the Boipatong massacre and accusing de Klerk's government of fomenting the violence.\n\nAs a result, the ANC began a campaign of \"mass action\", organising a protest march to occupy Bisho and force Gqozo's resignation. Gqozo sought a court interdict to prevent the march, and the magistrate ruled that it could take place at the homeland's independence stadium, outside Bisho, but could not enter the capital. The ANC refused to recognise the jurisdiction of the Ciskei court.\n\nOn 7 September, about 80,000 protesters gathered outside Bisho, signalling the wide opposition to Gqozo's rule. The meeting was led by senior ANC leaders including South African Communist Party Secretary General Chris Hani, Cyril Ramaphosa, Steve Tshwete and Ronnie Kasrils.\nA razor wire was erected on the border between South Africa and Ciskei to prevent the marchers from entering Bisho. When Kasrils led a group trying to break through the Ciskei Defence Force lines to enter Bisho, Ciskei Defence Force soldiers opened fire on the marchers with automatic weapons, killing 28 marchers and one soldier, and injuring over 200. More than 425 rounds were fired, the first fusillade lasting one and a half minutes, and the second lasting a minute.\n\nVarious inquiries agreed that the order to fire came from Colonel Vakele Archibald Mkosana, who incorrectly told his commanders by radio that his troops were under fire, and was given permission to return fire. Rifleman Mzamile Thomas Gonya was also found to have opened fire with a grenade launcher, killing one marcher.\n\nThe Goldstone Commission was tasked with investigating the massacre, and Justice Richard Goldstone condemned Gqozo for preventing political activity in Ciskei as well as for the lethal brutality of the Ciskei Defence Force troops. It dismissed his claim that the demonstrators had fired first, and it was later found that a Ciskei soldier who died during the shooting had been shot by a fellow soldier. It recommended strong action against Gqozo and those responsible. It also condemned Ronnie Kasrils for his irresponsible action in leading marchers breaking through the razor wire and provoking the forces into opening fire.\n\nOn 8 September 1992, a day after the massacre, the ANC released a statement demanding that Oupa Gqozo be removed as the leader of Ciskei, Section 43 of the Ciskei National Security Act which prevented political activity in Ciskei be revoked and South African Military Intelligence officials be removed from Ciskei.\nUltimately, the massacre led to new negotiations between the ANC and the government. Nelson Mandela met de Klerk on 26 September and signed a Record of Understanding, establishing an independent body to oversee police operations.\n\nGqozo remained in power in Ciskei but resigned shortly before the elections of 27 April 1994.\n\nA granite monument was erected on the site of the massacre, outside Independence Stadium, off Maitland Road between Bhisho and King William's Town. It was unveiled by Archbishop Desmond Tutu in 1997. The victims were buried in Ginsberg township outside King William's Town.\nEach year during the month of September, the Bisho Massacre Memorial Lecture is held to commemorate the massacre and various leaders from around South Africa take part in it.\n\nOnly two applications for amnesty for the massacre were received by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, from Colonel Mkosana, who gave the order to open fire, and Rifleman Gonya, who fired a grenade launcher. Gqozo agreed to testify before the TRC, but failed to appear after being admitted to a psychiatric hospital suffering from depression.\n\nIn 2000, both Mkosana and Gonya were denied amnesty on the grounds that their actions were reckless and disproportionate and not associated with a political motive.\n\nFollowing their failure to receive amnesty, Mkosana and Gonya were charged with one count of murder and Mkosana with 28 counts of culpable homicide. They were found not guilty on all charges on the grounds of self-defence.\n\nTestifying at a Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearing on the massacre, Gqozo's former deputy, Col Silence Pita, revealed that Gqozo had received a message stating that the Mkhonto Wesizwe was planning coup and would take us where we didn't want to be \" but the source of the information had not been made clear in the report. Pita said security arrangements for an African National Congress march on September 7, 1992 were left to the Ciskei Defence Force.\n\nFormer Ciskei foreign affairs minister Mickey Webb testified that the Ciskei government had been maneuvered into a confrontation with the ANC by South Africa's intelligence services. He claimed that South African Military Intelligence and Ciskei's own intelligence agency fed the Ciskei government with misinformation \"which could only have ended up in confrontation between the authorities and the ANC\".\n\n"}
{"id": "916917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916917", "title": "Blot-Sweyn", "text": "Blot-Sweyn\n\nSweyn (, \"Sweyn the Sacrificer\") was a Swedish king c. 1080, who replaced his Christian brother-in-law Inge as King of Sweden, when Inge had refused to administer the blóts (pagan sacrifices) at the Temple at Uppsala. There is no mention of Sweyn in the regnal list of the \"Westrogothic law\", which suggests that his rule did not reach Västergötland. According to Swedish historian Adolf Schück he was probably the same person as Håkan the Red and was called the \"Blót Swain\" (a \"swain\" who was willing to perform the blót) as an epithet rather than a personal name.\n\nThe earliest source that deals with Blot-Sweyn's coming to power is the Icelandic legendary saga \"Hervarar saga\":\n\nHowever, Inge did not permit the people to follow the old ways, unlike his father Stenkil. The Swedes reacted strongly and asked Inge to either comply with the old traditions or abdicate. When Inge proclaimed that he would not abandon Christianity, the people pelted him with stones and chased him away. This was the opportunity for Sweyn to assume power, and the account provided by \"Hervarar saga\" concerning his inauguration contains a rare description of the ancient Indo-European ritual of horse sacrifice:\n\nThe later \"Legend of Saint Eskil\" tells that Inge was chased away from the kingdom. They then elected an idolator for king by the name Sweyn, an unworthy man and with reason called \"Blood-Sweyn\". He had this name because he made the people drink blood from bulls that had been sacrificed to the gods, and he ate the sacrificial meat. The people assembled around their king in Strängnäs, where they butchered oxen and sheep, and gave offerings to their gods. They had a great banquet in honour of the king and their gods. The English bishop Eskil then appeared and tried to convert the pagans to Christianity. They would not listen, however. Eskil prayed, and God sent thunder, hail, snow and rain destroying the sacrificial altar and beasts of sacrifice. Not a single drop fell on the bishop. The pagans were not impressed and furiously, they attacked Eskil. A diviner named Spåbodde hit him on the head with a stone, while another man crushed his head with an axe. Some chieftains dragged the dying martyr to the king saying that Eskil had used magic arts to control the weather. As soon as the unrightful king had sentenced Eskil to death, he was taken to the valley where the monastery later was founded, and he was stoned to death\n\nThis legend is, however, only known from the late 13th century. An account by Aelnoth of Canterbury (c. 1122) relates that an Eskillinus was killed by pagan Swedes and Geats at an unspecified time. Since he is not mentioned by the clerical historian Adam of Bremen (c. 1075), he may have flourished in the late 11th century. According to another opinion, Eskil's death is more probably dated in c. 1016, several generations before Blot-Sweyn.\n\nAccording to \"Hervarar saga\", the rule of Sweyn was not to last. Before long, the Christian Inge decided to kill the pagan Sweyn:\n\nA similar account appears in the \"Orkneyinga saga\", but in this text, Sweyn remains inside and is burnt to death:\nIt is possible that Inge was not immediately accepted by the stubbornly pagan Swedes of Uppland. The 13th-century historian Snorri Sturlusson wrote in the \"Heimskringla\" that Blót-Sweyn had a pagan successor who continued the sacrifices:\n\nThis \"Eirik Arsale\" (Erik Årsäll) is mentioned in other sources as being the son of Blot-Sweyn, but today is not considered a historical person by most historians.\n"}
{"id": "701124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701124", "title": "Body snatching", "text": "Body snatching\n\nBody snatching is the secret removal of corpses from burial sites. A common purpose of body snatching, especially in the 19th century, was to sell the corpses for dissection or anatomy lectures in medical schools. Those who practised body snatching were often called \"resurrectionists\" or \"resurrection-men\". A related act is grave robbery, uncovering a tomb or crypt to steal artifacts or personal effects that had been buried with the deceased; however, grave robbery differs from body snatching in that grave robbing does not involve stealing the corpse itself.\n\nBefore the Anatomy Act of 1832, the only legal supply of corpses for anatomical purposes in the UK were those condemned to death and dissection by the courts. Those who were sentenced to dissection by the courts were often guilty of comparatively harsher crimes.\nSuch sentences did not provide enough subjects for the medical schools and private anatomical schools (which did not require a licence before 1832). During the 18th century hundreds had been executed for trivial crimes, but by the 19th century only about 56 people were being sentenced to capital punishment each year. With the expansion of the medical schools, however, as many as 500 cadavers were needed annually.\n\nInterfering with a grave was a misdemeanour at common law, not a felony, and therefore only punishable with a fine and imprisonment rather than transportation or execution. The trade was a sufficiently lucrative business to run the risk of detection, particularly as the authorities tended to ignore what they considered a necessary evil.\n\nBody snatching became so prevalent that it was not unusual for relatives and friends of someone who had just died to watch over the body until burial, and then to keep watch over the grave \"after\" burial, to stop it being violated. Iron coffins, too, were used frequently, or the graves were protected by a framework of iron bars called \"mortsafes\", well-preserved examples of which may still be seen in Greyfriars churchyard, Edinburgh.\nMort houses, such as the circular Udny Mort House in Aberdeenshire built in 1832, were also used to store bodies until decomposition, rendering the cadavers useless for medical dissection.\n\nOne method the body snatchers used was to dig at the head end of a recent burial, digging with a wooden spade (quieter than metal). When they reached the coffin (in London the graves were quite shallow), they broke open the coffin, put a rope around the corpse and dragged it out. They were often careful not to steal anything such as jewellery or clothes as this would cause them to be liable to a felony charge.\n\n\"The Lancet\" reported another method.\nA manhole-sized square of turf was removed away from the head of the grave, and a tunnel dug to intercept the coffin, which would be about down. The end of the coffin would be pulled off, and the corpse pulled up through the tunnel. The turf was then replaced, and any relatives watching the graves would not notice the small, remote disturbance. The article suggests that the number of empty coffins that have been discovered \"proves beyond a doubt that at this time body snatching was frequent\".\n\nDuring 1827 and 1828, Burke and Hare brought a new dimension to the trade of selling corpses \"to the doctors\" by murdering rather than grave-robbing and supplying their victims' fresh corpses for medical dissection. Their activities, and those of the London Burkers who imitated them, resulted in the passage of the Anatomy Act 1832. This allowed unclaimed bodies and those donated by relatives to be used for the study of anatomy, and required the licensing of anatomy teachers, which essentially ended the body snatching trade. The use of bodies for scientific research in the UK is now governed by the Human Tissue Authority.\n\nThe South Metropolitan cemetery at West Norwood, London constructed in 1837 had high walls and railings to deter unauthorised entry.\n1862 saw a late example of body snatching occur at the Wardsend Cemetery in Sheffield.\n\nIn the United States, body snatchers generally worked in small groups, which scouted and pillaged fresh graves. Fresh graves were generally given preference since the earth had not yet settled, thus making digging easier work. The removed earth was often shoveled onto canvas tarp laid by the grave, so the nearby grounds were undisturbed. Digging commenced at the head of the grave, clear to the coffin. The remaining earth on the coffin provided a counterweight which snapped the partially covered coffin lid (which was covered in sacking to muffle noise) as crowbars or hooks pulled the lid free at the head of the coffin. Usually, the body would be disrobed–the garments thrown back into the coffin before the earth was put back into place.\n\nResurrectionists have also been known to hire women to act the part of grieving relatives and to claim the bodies of dead at poorhouses. Women were also hired to attend funerals as grieving mourners; their purpose was to ascertain any hardships the body snatchers may later encounter during the disinterment. Bribed servants would sometimes offer body snatchers access to their dead master or mistress lying in state; the removed body would be replaced with weights.\n\nAlthough medical research and education lagged in the United States compared to medical colleges' European counterparts, the interest in anatomical dissection grew in the United States. Philadelphia, Baltimore, New York with several medical schools, were renowned for body snatching activity: all locales provided plenty of cadavers. Finding subjects for dissection proved to be \"morally troubling\" for students of anatomy. As late as the mid-19th century, John Gorham Coffin, a prominent aptly named professor and medical physician wondered how any ethical physician could participate in the traffic of dead bodies.\n\nCharles Knowlton (1800–1850) was imprisoned for two months in the Worcester (Massachusetts) County Jail for \"illegal dissection\" in 1824, a couple of months after graduating with distinction from Dartmouth Medical School. His thesis defended dissection on the rationalist basis that \"value of any art or science should be determined by the tendency it has to increase the happiness, or to diminish the misery, of mankind.\" Knowlton called for doctors to relieve \"public prejudice\" by donating their own bodies for dissection.\n\nThe body of Ohio congressman John Scott Harrison, son of William Henry Harrison, was snatched in 1878 for Ohio Medical College, and discovered by his son John Harrison, brother of President Benjamin Harrison.\n\nLarge, gated, centralized cemeteries, which sometimes employed armed guards, emerged as a response to grave-robbing fears. Gated, \"high-security\" cemeteries were also a response to the discovery that many old urban and rural burying grounds were found to be practically empty of their human contents when downtown areas were re-developed and old pioneer cemeteries moved, as in Indianapolis.\n\nThe demand for cadavers for human dissection grew as medical schools were established in the United States. Between the years of 1758 and 1788, only 63 of the 3500 physicians in the Colonies had studied abroad, namely at the University of Edinburgh Medical School. Study of anatomy legitimized the medical field, setting it apart from homeopathic and botanical studies. Later, in 1847, physicians formed the American Medical Association, in an effort to differentiate between the \"true science\" of medicine and \"the assumptions of ignorance and empiricism\" based on an education without the experience of human dissection.\n\nIn 1762, John Morgan and William Shippen Jr. founded the medical department of University of Pennsylvania. Shippen put an advertisement in the Pennsylvania Gazette in November 1762 announcing his lectures about the \"art of dissecting, injections, etc.\" The cost was \"five pistoles.\" In 1765, his house was attacked by a mob, claiming the doctor had desecrated a church burying ground. The doctor denied this and made known that he only used bodies of \"suicides, executed felons, and now and then one from the Potter's Field\".\n\nIn Boston, medical students faced similar issues with procuring subjects for dissection. In his biographical notes, John Collins Warren Jr. wrote, \"No occurrences in the course of my life have given me more trouble and anxiety than the procuring of subjects for dissection.\" He continues to tell of the difficulty his father John Warren had finding subjects during the Revolutionary War: many soldiers who had died were without relation. These experiences gave John Warren the experience he needed to begin his lectures on anatomy in 1781. His advertisement in the local paper stated the following: \"A Course of lectures will be delivered this Winter upon the several Branches of Physick, for the Improvement of all such as are desirous of obtaining medical Knowledge: Those who propose attending, are requested to make Application as soon as possible, as the Course will commence in a few days. It was dated and signed: Boston 01/01/1781 John Warren, Sec'y, Medical Society.\n\nEbenezer Hersey, a physician, left Harvard College £1,000 for the creation of a Professorship in Anatomy in 1770. A year earlier, John Warren and his friends had created a secret anatomic society. This society's purpose was to participate in anatomic dissection, using cadavers that they themselves procured. The group's name was the \"Spunkers\"; however, speaking or writing the name was prohibited. Often the group used shovels to obtain fresh corpses for its anatomical study.\n\nHarvard Medical School was established on November 22, 1782; John Warren was elected Professor of Anatomy and Surgery. When his son was in the college in 1796, the peaceful times provided few subjects. John Collins Warren Jr. wrote: \"Having understood that a man without relations was to be buried in the North Burying-Ground, I formed a party ... When my father came up in the morning to lecture, and found that I had been engaged in this scrape, he was very much alarmed.\"\n\nJohn Warren's quest for subjects led him to consult with his colleague, W.E. Horner, professor of anatomy at University of Pennsylvania, who wrote back: \"Since the opening of our lectures, the town has been so uncommonly healthy, that I have not been able to obtain a fourth part of subjects required for our dissecting rooms.\"\n\nWarren later enlisted the help of an old family friend, John Revere (son of Paul Revere) to procure subjects for dissection. Revere called upon John Godman who suggested that Warren employ the services of James Henderson, \"a trusty old friend and servant\" who could \"at any time, and almost to any number, obtain the articles you desire.\"\n\nWarren attempted to set up a cadaver provision system in Boston, similar to the systems already set up in New York and Philadelphia. Public officials and burial-ground employees were routinely bribed for entrance to Potter's Field to get bodies. In New York, the bodies were divided into two groupings–one group contained the bodies of those \"most entitled to respect, or most likely to be called for by friends;\" the other bodies were not exempt from exhumation. In Philadelphia's two public burying grounds, anatomists claimed bodies regularly, without consideration. \"If schools or physicians differed over who should get an allotment of bodies, the dispute was to be settled by the mayor–a high-reaching conspiracy that resulted in a harvest of about 450 bodies per school year.\"\n\nPublic graveyards were not only sanctioned by social and economic standing, but also by race. New York was 15% black in the 1780s. \"Bayley's dissecting tables, as well as those of Columbia College\" often took bodies from the segregated section of Potter's field, the Negroes Burying Ground. Free blacks as well as slaves were buried there. In February 1787, a group of free blacks petitioned the city's common council about the medical students, who \"under cover of night...dig up the bodies of the deceased, friends and relatives of the petitioners, carry them away without respect to age or sex, mangle their flesh out of wanton curiosity and then expose it to beasts and birds.\"\n\nIn December 1882, it was discovered that six bodies had been disinterred from Lebanon Cemetery and were en route to Jefferson Medical College for dissection. Philadelphia's African-Americans were outraged, and a crowd assembled at the city morgue where the discovered bodies were sent. Reportedly, one of the crowd urged the group to swear that they would seek revenge for those who participated in desecration of the graves. Another man screamed when he discovered the body of his 29-year-old brother. The Philadelphia Press broke the story when a teary elderly woman identified her husband's body, whose burial she had afforded only by begging for the $22 at the wharves where he had been employed. Physician William S. Forbes was indicted, and the case led to passage of various Anatomical Acts.\n\nAfter the public hanging of 39 Dakota warriors in the aftermath of the Dakota War of 1862, a group of doctors removed the bodies under cover of darkness from their riverside grave, and each took some for himself. Doctor William Worrall Mayo received the body of a warrior called \"Cut Nose\" and dissected it in the presence of other doctors. He then cleaned and articulated the skeleton and kept the bones in an iron kettle in his office. His sons received their first lessons in osteology from this skeleton.\n\nOn February 21, 1788, a body of a woman was taken from Trinity Church. A hundred-dollar reward was offered by the rector of the church for information leading to the arrest of grave robbers. In the \"Daily Advertiser\", many editorial letters were written about the incident: one such writer named Humanio warned that \"lives may be forfeit ... should [the body snatchers] persist.\" There was cause for concern: body snatching was perceived to be \"a daily occurrence.\" To assuage the outraged public, legislation was enacted to thwart the activities of the body snatchers; eventually, anatomy acts, such as Massachusetts Anatomy Act of 1831, allowed for the legalization of anatomy studies.\n\nPrior to these measures allowing for more subjects, many tactics were employed to protect the bodies of relatives. Police were engaged to watch the burying grounds but were often bribed or made drunk. Spring guns were set in the coffins, and poorer families would leave items like a stone or a blade of grass or a shell to show whether the grave was tampered with or not. In his collection of Boston police force details, Edward Savage made notes of a reward offer on April 13, 1814: \"The selectmen offer $100 reward for arrest of grave-robbers at South Burying-Ground\". Iron fences were constructed around many burying grounds as well as a deterrent to body snatchers. \"Burglar proof grave vaults made of steel\" were sold with the promise that loved ones' remains would not be one of the 40,000 bodies \"mutilated every year on dissecting tables in medical colleges in the United States.\" The medical appropriation of bodies aroused much popular resentment. Between 1765 and 1884, there were at least 25 documented crowd actions against American medical schools.\n\nDespite these efforts, body snatchers persisted. At City Hospital in New York, on April 13, 1788, a group of boys playing near the dissection room window peered in. Accounts vary, but one of the boys saw what he thought were his mother's remains or that one of the students shook a dismembered arm at the boys. The boy, whose mother had recently died, told his father of the occurrence; the father, a mason, led a group of laborers in an attack on the hospital, known as the Doctors' Riot.\n\nIn order to control the destruction of private property, the authorities participated in searches of local physicians' houses for medical students, professors, and stolen corpses. The mob was satisfied. Later, the mob reassembled to attack the jail where some of the medical students were being held for their safety. The militia was called, but few showed; this was perhaps due to the militia sharing the public's outrage. One small troop was harassed and quickly withdrew. Several prominent citizens–including Governor George Clinton; General Baron von Steuben, and John Jay–participated in the ranks of the militia protecting the doctors at the jail. Three rioters were killed when the embattled militia opened fire on the mob, and when militia members from the countryside joined the defense, the mob threat quickly dissipated.\n\nIn Tasmania, the bodies of William Lanne (1835–1869) and Truganini (1812–1876), considered at the time to be the last Aboriginal Tasmanians (Palawa), were both exhumed from their graves. Lanne's head, hands and feet were removed illegally by surgeon William Crowther and members of the Royal Society of Tasmania before he was buried, and the rest of his body was stolen after his burial. Truganini, who outlived Lanne by several years, had wished to avoid his fate and expressly asked to be cremated, but was buried anyway. The Royal Society of Tasmania exhumed her body and put it on display.\n\nThe practice was also common in other parts of the British Empire, such as Canada, where religious customs as well as the lack of means of preservation made it hard for medical students to obtain a steady supply of fresh bodies. In many instances the students had to resort to fairly regular body snatching.\n\nIn Montreal during the winter of 1875, typhoid fever struck at a convent school. The corpses of the victims were stolen by body snatchers before relatives arrived from America, causing an international scandal. Eventually the Anatomy Act of Quebec was amended to prevent a recurrence, effectively ending medical body snatching in Quebec.\n\nIn China there were reports in 2006 of a resurgence in the ancient practice of ghost marriages in the northern coal-mining regions of Shanxi, Hebei and Shandong. Although the practice has long been abandoned in modern China, some superstitious families in isolated rural areas still pay very high prices for the procurement of female corpses for deceased unmarried male relatives. It is speculated that the very high death toll among young male miners in these areas has led more and more entrepreneurial body snatchers to steal female cadavers from graves and then resell them through the black market to families of the deceased. In 2007, a previously convicted grave robber, Song Tiantang, was arrested by Chinese authorities for murdering six women and selling their bodies as \"ghost brides\".\n\nIn Cyprus, the former President Tassos Papadopoulos's body was stolen from his grave on 11 December 2009.\n\nIn 1536, Andreas Vesalius challenged the known world of medicine and anatomy. As a 22-year-old medical student, he had a lot to lose when he began stealing bodies from the Paris cemetery, even if it was in the name of science. He would take the bodies back to his home and boil off the skin until there were only bones remaining. Vesalius wanted to identify every bone in the human body and reconstruct it like a jigsaw puzzle. At the time, there was only one set of text books about the body at Vesalius's disposal, written by Claudius Galen 1300 years earlier. Vesalius made over 200 corrections to Galen's book based on what he had learned from dissecting stolen bodies, and ignited a new age of modern medicine.\n\nFor over 200 years, the city of Kolkata, in the north-eastern region of India, has been known to be the center of a network of bone traders who remove skeletons from graveyards in order to sell them to universities and hospitals abroad. In colonial times, British doctors used to hire thieves to dig up bodies from Indian cemeteries. Despite changes in laws, a similar process is going strong today. According to journalist Scott Carney, historically members of the Domar caste, who traditionally performed cremations, were pressed into service processing bones; skeletons were exported from India to be used in anatomy classes worldwide. In the 1850s, Calcutta Medical College processed 900 skeletons a year, but mostly for shipment abroad. A century later, a newly independent India dominated the world market for human bones. \n\nAt their height, in the early 1980s, Calcutta's bone factories took in an estimated $1 million a year by digging the graveyards of West Bengal after the mourners had left. In 1985 the Indian government banned the export of human bones after human rights groups raised questions about how the bones were being collected and pointed towards the greater need for institutions to obtain informed consent before remains were used for medical research. However, the human organ trade was only forced underground. \n\nThe Indian government banned the export of human remains in the mid-1980s, but body snatching is still thriving, even if secretly, in many parts of the country as a result of ineffective laws and poverty.\n\nIn Dublin, Ireland, the medical schools of the 18th and 19th centuries were on a constant hunt for bodies. The Bullys' Acre or Hospital Fields at Kilmainham was a rich source of anatomical material as it was a communal burial ground and easily accessed. Soldiers attached to the nearby Royal Hospital were always on the alert for grave robbers mainly because many of their comrades were buried there. In November 1825 a sentry captured Thomas Tuite, a known resurrectionist, in possession of five bodies. When searched his pockets were found to be full of teeth–in those days a set of teeth fetched £1 (about £50 in 2011). Many other graveyards were targets of the medical students or those who made robbing graves their profession. The largest cemetery in Ireland, Glasnevin Cemetery, laid out in the 18th century, had a high wall with strategically placed watch-towers as well as blood-hounds to deter body snatchers.\n\nThe first recorded case of body snatching is attributed to four medical students from Bologna in 1319. \n\nIn The Netherlands, poorhouses were accustomed to receiving a small fee by undertakers who paid a \"fine\" for ignoring burial laws and resold the bodies (especially those with no family) to doctors.\n\nRare reports of body snatching continue to occur. One notorious case in the United Kingdom involved the removal of the remains of Gladys Hammond from Yoxall Churchyard near Lichfield in south Staffordshire. Mrs Hammond's remains were taken by animal rights activists who were campaigning against Darley Oaks Farm, a licensed facility that bred guinea pigs for scientific research. Mrs Hammond was the mother in law of one of the farm's owners. After a four-year investigation by Staffordshire Police four leaders of the Save the Newchurch Guinea Pigs campaign group (three men: Kerry Whitburn of Edgbaston, John Smith of Wolverhampton, John Ablewhite of Manchester; and one woman: Josephine Mayo of Staffordshire) were jailed for conspiracy to blackmail. The men received 12 years each and the woman received four years. The police said the conspiracy included the removal of Mrs Hammond's remains, which were recovered by police following information given by one of the four.\n\nIn February 2006, Michael Mastromarino, then a 42-year-old former New Jersey-based oral surgeon and CEO and executive director of operations at Biomedical Tissue Services, was convicted along with three employees of illegally harvesting human bones, organs, tissue and other cadaver parts from individuals awaiting cremation, for forging numerous consent forms, and for selling the illegally obtained body parts to medical companies without consent of their families, and then sentenced to long prison terms. BTS sold its products to five companies, including Life Cell Corporation, of New Jersey, and Regeneration Technologies, of Florida.\n\nThere is still a demand for corpses for transplantation surgery in the form of allografts. Modern body snatchers feed this demand. Tissue gained in this way is medically unsafe and unusable. The broadcaster Alistair Cooke's bones were removed in New York City and replaced with PVC pipe before his cremation.\nThe director Toby Dye made a documentary titled \"Body Snatcher of New York\" about this case in 2010.\n\nThough it banned the export of human remains in the mid-1980s, India continues to maintain a robust, if under the table, international trade in human skeletons, as journalist Scott Carney indicates\n\nIn 2007, the Indian police discovered a stash of hundreds of human skulls and thigh bones and arrested a gang for allegedly carrying out the practice of body snatching and indulging in bone trade. This gang was arrested after they exhumed dozens of graves from Muslim cemeteries in Burdwan district, and smuggled the skeletons not just to medical institutions in need of cadavers across the world, but also to the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan for use in Buddhist monasteries. Kamal Sah was caught carrying 67 human skulls and 10 bones on a bus in Chhapra, in the state of Bihar, by fellow passengers who had noticed a jagged bone sticking out of a bag beneath his seat. The investigating officer of the incident, Ravinder Nalwa, reported to a Reuters journalist that, \"during the interrogation the gang members confessed that the hollow human thigh bones were in great demand in monasteries and were used as blow-horns, and the skulls as vessels to drink from at religious ceremonies.\"\n\nBuddhist monks in India likewise admitted that human thigh bones and skulls were used by followers of a Tibetan school of Buddhism. Another report in the newspaper, The National, reported in 2009 how the alleged bone smuggler, Kamal Sah, was caught with two bags of human skulls and bones in Bihar state, who was identified by the civilians and handed over to the police. When questioned on the subject, the police refused to acknowledge the authorities failure to stamp out the practice and simply claimed that the police lacked \"equipment, manpower and expertise to stop this practice\". The criminal lawyer, Majid Menon, acknowledges that the dire economic conditions for vast numbers of people living in such states as Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and some parts of Uttar Pradesh, have favored the practice of body snatching till date and given room for bone smugglers to flourish.\n\nAccording to estimates, 20,000-25,000 human skeletons are smuggled out of India every year through Nepal, China, and Bangladesh. The skeletons reach markets in the US, Japan, Europe and the Middle East, mostly for medical institutions. The price for a complete the skeleton in these markets ranges from $700 to $1500 depending on the quality and size. In India, a full skeleton costs around $350 in the open market.Young Brothers, a Calcutta-based bone dealer, sells a human skeleton for $300. While the complete skeletons mostly find their way to medical laboratories mostly in the West, the assorted bones and skulls are used for religious rituals mostly in Hindu and Buddhist-dominated areas. As part of their tantric rituals, many tantrics drink wine in human skulls in places such as Nepal and the state of Assam in India.\n\nAnd even though till date police have been unable to unearth any irregularity in the skeleton trade, the exporter-turned-moralist, Sanker Narayan Sen, maintains that the people from the Domar caste are often responsible for body snatching and later process the procured cadavers for export.The Government of India had twice earlier banned exports, only to revoke its decision on each occasion. According to the Exporters Association, the CBI, in 2014 had once again recently concluded its investigations and submitted a report exonerating such body snatchers and exporters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30953582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30953582", "title": "Capital punishment in Slovakia", "text": "Capital punishment in Slovakia\n\nCapital punishment in Slovakia () was abolished in 1990 and the most severe punishment permissible by law is life imprisonment. Before that, capital punishment was common in Czechoslovakia, Slovak State, Austria-Hungary, Kingdom of Hungary and probably all previous political entities that existed in the area of today's Slovakia. Since 1989, no one was executed in Slovakia with a few controversial political killings by the Slovak Secret Service in the 1990s. Since then, there have been no reports of the government or its agents committing arbitrary or unlawful killings.\n\nThe last person executed in Slovakia remains Štefan Svitek (28) from Podbrezová who killed his wife and two daughters with an axe in 1987 and he was executed on June 8, 1989 in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia (at that time).\n\nCapital punishment was common in the Austrian Monarchy (with a short exception from 1787 to 1795 under the rule of Joseph II) in Austria-Hungary, and from 1918 in the newly created Czechoslovakia. From 1918 to 1989, 1217 people were executed legally, the majority of them immediately after World War II. Due to chaos in historical records the actual number may be slightly different. This number doesn't include people executed during the occupation of the Czech lands from 1939 to 1945 or during the existence of the Slovak State (thousands were executed at that time; of these about 1079 were guillotined in Pankrác prison).\n\nDuring the presidency of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk (1918–35) 16 people were executed, four of them for military related crimes. Masaryk was an opponent of capital punishment and had the privilege of commuting death sentences, one he exercised frequently.\n\n"}
{"id": "31092714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31092714", "title": "Capital punishment in Vietnam", "text": "Capital punishment in Vietnam\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Vietnam.\n\nTwenty-nine articles in the Penal Code allow the death penalty as an optional punishment. Executions were once carried out by a firing squad of seven policemen, where the prisoners were blindfolded and tied to stakes. The firing squad was replaced by lethal injection in November 2011 after the Law on Execution of Criminal Judgments (in article 59(1)) was passed by the National Assembly. The drugs used to execute prisoners are produced domestically. The first execution conducted by lethal injection was of Nguyen Anh Tuan, convicted of murdering gas station employee Bui Thi Nguyet on August 6 2013. \n\nIn November 2015, a revision of the Penal Code that severely curtailed the death penalty was passed. Under the new regulations, which took effect on July 1, 2016, the death penalty was abolished for seven crimes: surrendering to the enemy, opposing order, destruction of projects of national security importance, robbery, drug possession, drug appropriation, and the production and trade of fake food. In addition, those 75 or older are exempt, and officials convicted of corruption charges can be spared if they pay back at least 75% of the profits they illicitly obtained.\n\nThe death penalty cannot be applied to juvenile offenders, pregnant women, and women nursing children under 36 months old at the time the crime was committed or being tried. These cases are commuted to life imprisonment.\n\nBetween August 6, 2013 and June 30, 2016, Vietnam executed 429 people. 1,134 people were sentenced to death between July 2011 and June 2016. The number of individuals on death row is not known.\n\nAccording to the Penal Code, the following chapters contain the relevant articles that apply to capital punishment.\n\nPenal Code No. 100/2015/QH13\n\n"}
{"id": "51758582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51758582", "title": "Cell division orientation", "text": "Cell division orientation\n\nCell division orientation is the direction along which the new daughter cells are formed. Cell division orientation is important for morphogenesis, cell fate and tissue homeostasis. Abnormalities in the cell division orientation leads to the malformations during development and cancerous tissues. Factors that influence cell division orientation are cell shape, anisotropic localization of specific proteins and mechanical tensions.\n\nCell division orientation is one of the mechanisms that shapes tissue during development and morphogenesis. Along with cell shape changes, cell rearrangements, apoptosis and growth, oriented cell division modifies the geometry and topology of live tissue in order to create new organs and shape the organisms. Reproducible patterns of oriented cell divisions were described during mophogenesis of \"Drosophila\" embryos, \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" embryos, \"Drosophila\" pupa, zebrafish embryos and mouse early embryos. Oriented cell divisions contribute to the tissue elongation and the release of mechanical stress. While in the first case oriented cell division acts as active contributor to the morphogenesis, the latter case is a passive response to the external mechanical tensions.\n\nIn several tissues, such as columnar epithelium, the cells divide along the plane of the epithelium. Such divisions insert new formed cells in the epithelium layer. The disregulation of the orientation of cell divisions result in the creation of the cell out of epithelium and is observed at the initial stages of cancer.\n\nMore than a century ago Oskar Hertwig proposed that the cell division orientation is determined by the shape of the cell (1884), known as Hertwig rule. In the epithelium the cells 'reads' its shape through the specific cell junction called tricellular junctions (TCJ). TCJ provide mechanical and geometrical clues for the spindle apparatus to ensure that cell divide along its long axis. Several factors could regulate cell shape and therefore orientation of cell division. Among these factors is the anisotropic mechanical stress. This stress could be the result of the external mechanical deformation of generated intracellularly by non-isotropic localization of specific proteins.\n"}
{"id": "374063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374063", "title": "Compatibilism", "text": "Compatibilism\n\nCompatibilism is the belief that free will and determinism are mutually compatible and that it is possible to believe in both without being logically inconsistent. Compatibilists believe freedom can be present or absent in situations for reasons that have nothing to do with metaphysics. They define free will as freedom to act according to one's motives without arbitrary hindrance from other individuals or institutions.\n\nFor example, courts of law make judgments, without bringing in metaphysics, about whether an individual was acting of their own free will in specific circumstances. It is assumed in a court of law that someone could have acted otherwise than in reality. Otherwise, no crime would have been committed.\n\nSimilarly, political liberty is a non-metaphysical concept. Statements of political liberty, such as the United States Bill of Rights, assume moral liberty: the ability to choose to do otherwise than one does.\n\nCompatibilism was championed by the ancient stoics and medieval scholastics (such as Thomas Aquinas), and by Enlightenment philosophers (like David Hume and Thomas Hobbes). More specifically, the scholastics, including Thomas Aquinas, rejected what would now be called \"incompatibilism\"—they held that humans could do otherwise than they do, otherwise the concept of sin is meaningless. As for the Jesuits, their concern was to reconcile the claim of God's foreknowledge of who would be saved with moral agency. The term \"compatibilism\" itself was coined as late as the 20th century. \n\nDuring the 20th century, compatibilists presented novel arguments that differed from the classical arguments of Hume, Hobbes, and John Stuart Mill. Importantly, Harry Frankfurt popularized what are now known as Frankfurt counterexamples to argue against incompatibilism, and developed a positive account of compatibilist free will based on higher-order volitions. Other \"new compatibilists\" include Gary Watson, Susan R. Wolf, P. F. Strawson, and R. Jay Wallace.\n\nContemporary compatibilists range from the philosopher and cognitive scientist Daniel Dennett, particularly in his works \"Elbow Room\" (1984) and \"Freedom Evolves\" (2003), to the existentialist philosopher Frithjof Bergmann. Perhaps the most renowned contemporary defender of compatibilism is John Martin Fischer.\n\n\"Compatibilists\" often define an instance of \"free will\" as one in which the agent had freedom to act according to their own \"motivation\". That is, the agent was not coerced or restrained. Arthur Schopenhauer famously said, \"Man can do what he wills but he cannot will what he wills.\"\n\nIn other words, although an agent may often be free to act according to a \"motive\", the nature of that motive is determined. Also note that this definition of free will does not rely on the truth or falsity of causal determinism. This view also makes \"free will\" close to \"autonomy\", the ability to live according to one's own rules, as opposed to being submitted to external domination.\n\nSome compatibilists will hold both causal determinism (all effects have causes) and logical determinism (the future is already determined) to be true. Thus statements about the future (e.g., \"it will rain tomorrow\") are either true or false when spoken today. This compatibilist free will should not be understood as some kind of ability to have actually chosen differently in an identical situation. A compatibilist can believe that a person can choose between many choices, but the choice is always determined by external factors. If the compatibilist says \"I may visit tomorrow, or I may not\", he is saying he does not know what he will choose—if he will choose to follow the subconscious urge to go or not.\n\nCritics of compatibilism often focus on the definition(s) of free will: incompatibilists may agree that the compatibilists are showing \"something\" to be compatible with determinism, but they think that \"something\" ought not to be called \"free will\". Incompatibilists might accept the \"freedom to act\" as a \"necessary\" criterion for free will, but doubt that it is \"sufficient\". Basically, they demand more of \"free will\". The incompatibilists believe free will refers to \"genuine\" (e.g., absolute, ultimate) alternate possibilities for beliefs, desires, or actions, rather than merely counterfactual ones.\n\nCompatibilism is sometimes called soft determinism pejoratively (William James' term). James accused them of creating a \"quagmire of evasion\" by stealing the name of freedom to mask their underlying determinism. Immanuel Kant called it a \"wretched subterfuge\" and \"word jugglery\". Kant's argument turns on the view that, while all empirical phenomena must result from determining causes, human thought introduces something seemingly not found elsewhere in nature—the ability to conceive of the world in terms of how it \"ought\" to be, or how it might otherwise be. For Kant, subjective reasoning is necessarily distinct from how the world is empirically. Because of its capacity to distinguish \"is\" from \"ought\", reasoning can 'spontaneously' originate new events without being itself determined by what already exists. It is on this basis that Kant argues against a version of compatibilism in which, for instance, the actions of the criminal are comprehended as a blend of determining forces and free choice, which Kant regards as misusing the word \"free\". Kant proposes that taking the compatibilist view involves denying the distinctly subjective capacity to re-think an intended course of action in terms of what \"ought\" to happen. Ted Honderich explains his view that the mistake of compatibilism is to assert that nothing changes as a consequence of determinism, when clearly we have lost the life-hope of origination.\n\n"}
{"id": "41992913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41992913", "title": "DJ A-Tron", "text": "DJ A-Tron\n\nAaron Williams (born April 10, 1993), best known as DJ A-Tron, is an American DJ, radio host, web personality, event producer, entrepreneur and marketing executive. He was referred to by the \"LA Weekly\" as \"The Twerk King\". His business portfolio also includes a creative marketing and branding agency, management company, as well as an online Jewelry store, The Work Shop.\n\nWhen A-Tron was 7 years old, he got his first set of turntables. He started to try DJing a lot more after that as he got older, and became much more skilled at it. DJ A-Tron then very often DJed in clubs, house parties, and underground raves. He uses the DJ software Serato. A-Tron started creating mixes online and soon became regionally known. Starting on air at the age of 16 on his own internet radio show JerkinRadio, A-Tron split time as a teen between School and Music. After graduating from St. Bernard High School (Los Angeles, California) in 2011, A-Tron started headlining at Hollywood clubs and throwing massive underground functions.\n\nPerforming, A-Tron has toured worldwide, and performed at official events for the GRAMMY Awards, and BET Awards.\n\nJerkinRadio is an internet radio station A-Tron opened in 2008 while in high school. The station grew to 100,000 monthly listeners due to endorsements from the jerkin scene's major figures.\n\nA-Tron does many celebrities kids birthday parties and tours High School around California. He also performed at SXSW in Austin, Texas.\n\nAs a mixtape DJ & producer, A-Tron has released many mixtapes during his career. In 2013, A-Tron released \"Skinny Ni**as\" featuring Nipsey Hussle. It was announced in 2013 that A-Tron would release his debut mixtape with features from Nipsey Hussle, Joe Moses, TeeFlii, among others. \nXXL (magazine) called DJ A-Tron \"The Most Popular underground DJ\" in Los Angeles.\n\nOutside of his career as a DJ and personality, A-Tron is active in the entertainment business as a business entrepreneur working with Fox Sports and multi-platinum production band 1500orNothin.\n\nIn September 2013, A-Tron opened his online retail Jewelry store, The Work Shop.\n\n"}
{"id": "33185413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185413", "title": "Death of Michael Faherty", "text": "Death of Michael Faherty\n\nMichael Faherty (also known as \"Micheál Ó Fátharta\"; 1934–2010) was a 76-year-old man who was found burned to death in the living room of his home at Clareview Park, Ballybane, Galway, on 22 December 2010. His body was partly consumed by a fire that was driven by the wick effect, which commonly occurs near, and is aided by, an open fireplace. His death was recorded as \"spontaneous combustion\" by the coroner.\n\nIn the early hours of 22 December 2010, Faherty's neighbour, a Mr Mannion, was awakened by the sound of his smoke alarm. Mannion went outside to find heavy smoke coming from Faherty's house. Getting no answer from Faherty's house, he roused local residents and the Gardaí and the fire brigade was called.\n\nFaherty's home was searched by forensic experts from the Gardaí and the fire service. Faherty's body had been found lying on his back with his head closest to an open fireplace. The fire had been entirely confined to the sitting room and the only damage found was to the totally burnt body, the ceiling above and the floor beneath him. No trace of any accelerants was found and there was nothing to suggest foul play had taken place. Assistant chief fire officer Gerry O'Malley told the inquest into the death that after a thorough investigation, fire officers were satisfied that the open fire was not the cause of the blaze which led to Faherty's death.\n\nA post-mortem carried out by pathologist Grace Callagy noted that Faherty had suffered from Type 2 diabetes and hypertension but had not died from heart failure. Callagy concluded that \"The extensive nature of the burns sustained precludes determining the precise cause of death.\"\n\nIn September 2011, the west Galway coroner, Dr Ciaran McLoughlin, informed the inquiry into the death that he searched medical literature to determine the cause of death. The coroner referred to Professor Bernard Knight's book on forensic pathology, which states that a high number of alleged incidents of spontaneous human combustion had taken place near an open fireplace or chimney.\n\nThe coroner subsequently made a statement to an inquiry: \"This fire was thoroughly investigated and I'm left with the conclusion that this fits into the category of spontaneous human combustion, for which there is no adequate explanation.\"\n\nMike Green, a retired professor of pathology, related one similar case in his career, but would not himself use the term spontaneous combustion. He believed there had to be some source of ignition, a cigarette or ember from a fire. The source of the ignition is subsequently lost as the body burns. Green surmised that the circumstances surrounding the death of Michael Faherty were very similar to other possible cases. Green also dismissed any explanations centred on divine intervention.\n\nBenjamin Radford, science writer and deputy editor of the science magazine \"Skeptical Inquirer\", contends, \"Faherty's case may not be as mysterious as it looks. There was, after all, an open fire close to his burned body. It seems likely that a spark or ember might have popped from the fire onto his clothing, and caught his clothing on fire. It's not clear why the coroner conclusively ruled this explanation out.\" Radford also casts doubt on the plausibility of spontaneous human combustion, \"If SHC is a real phenomenon (and not the result of an elderly or infirm person being too close to a flame source), why doesn't it happen more often?\"\n"}
{"id": "40941210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40941210", "title": "Default effect", "text": "Default effect\n\nAmong the set of options that agents choose from, the default option is the option the chooser will obtain if he or she does nothing. Broader interpretations of default options include options that are normative or suggested. Experiments and observational studies show that making an option a default increases the likelihood that it is chosen; this is called the default effect. Different causes for this effect have been discussed. Setting or changing defaults therefore has been proposed as an effective way of influencing behavior—for example, with respect to deciding whether to become an organ donor, giving consent to receive e-mail marketing, or choosing the level of one's retirement contributions.\n\nIn a choice context, a default refers to that option which choosers end up with if they do not make an active choice. This notion is similar to the one in computer science where defaults are settings or values that are automatically assigned outside of user intervention. Setting the default affects how likely people end up with an option. This is called the default effect. More precisely, it refers to changes in the probability that an agent chooses a particular option when it is set as a default as opposed to the situation where this option has not been set as default. For example, different countries have different rules on how to become an organ donor. In countries with the opt-in policy, all citizens are automatically considered as non-donors unless they actively register as donors. In countries with the opt-out policy, all citizens are automatically considered as donors unless they actively seek to be struck from the register. It has been argued that this difference in policy is the main cause of the significant difference in donor rates across the respective countries.\n\nSome default effects are implied by the situation. In social settings, for example, the normative choice (what others are doing) may be adopted unconsciously as a social default effect. People are thus more likely to choose what they observe other choosing, even if they do not believe that other person is the more knowledgeable person. People are also more likely to treat choices that require less justification as defaults. The default option for parole hearings, for example, is to deny prisoners parole.\n\nA number of different explanations have been offered for how default setting causes a change in the choice distribution. These include Cognitive Effort, Switching Costs, Loss Aversion, Recommendation and Change of Meaning.\n\nIf an agent is indifferent or conflicted between options, it may involve too much cognitive effort to base a choice on explicit evaluations. In that case, he or she might disregard the evaluations and choose according to the default heuristic instead, which simply states “if there is a default, do nothing about it”. Evidence supporting this cognitive effort account is provided in the realm of social default effects. Participants distracted by a demanding concurrent task were more likely to choose the one of two snacks that they saw a previous participant choose. Increasing the number of snacks received as a function of the choice decreased this social default effect.\n\nIf an agent faces costs when diverging from a default that surmount the possible benefits from switching to another option, then it is rational to stick with the default option. Costs of diverging from the default might involve costs for the search of information (time, consultancy fees) and/or costs for registering the choice (time, postage, lawyer fees). This amounts to a standard transaction cost explanation from rational choice theory.\n\nIf an agent evaluates options on multiple dimensions, then the default functions as a reference point from which some dimensions are interpreted as losses and therefore becomes more important for the choice. This loss aversion explanation of the default effect can be illustrated with the following example. Let A, B and C be three different pension saving plans. The agent evaluates them (in terms of time-discounted utilities) on the two following dimensions, current consumption and future savings which obviously trade off: the more one saves for the future, the less one can consume in the present.\nSeen from plan A being the default, plans B and C constitute losses in the savings dimension. Seen from plan C being the default, however, plans A and B constitute losses in the consumption dimension. According to the theory of loss aversion, that dimension which is considered a loss influences the decision stronger than that which is considered a gain. Hence for either default A or C, the loss-averse agent would choose sticking with the default.\n\nIf an agent interprets the default as a signal from the policy maker, whom he or she sufficiently trusts, he or she might rationally decide to stick with this default. That the policy maker sets a default is interpreted as an implicit recommendation to choose that default option. The information taken from this recommendation might be sufficient to change some people's preferences.\n\nDefaults also might affect the meaning of choice options and thus agents' choices over them. For example, it has been shown that under an opt-in policy in organ donation choosing not to become an organ donor is perceived as a choice of little moral failing. Under an opt-out policy, in contrast, choosing not to be an organ donor is perceived as morally more deficient. These differences in evaluation might affect the rational choice over these options.\n\nSetting or changing defaults has been proposed as an effective way of influencing behaviour—for example, with respect to deciding whether to become an organ donor, giving consent to receive e-mail marketing, choosing car insurance plans, choosing which food to eat, selecting which car options to purchase, choosing between different energy providers, or choosing the level of one's retirement contributions. Setting defaults are an important example of nudges or soft paternalist policies.\n"}
{"id": "13875118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13875118", "title": "Doughboy (comics)", "text": "Doughboy (comics)\n\nDoughboy is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nDoughboy first appeared in \"Captain America\" #209 (May 1977), created by Jack Kirby.\n\nDoughboy is an artificially created life-form created by Arnim Zola as his servant at Castle Zola in Weisshorn Mountain, Switzerland. Doughboy is a non-humanoid bioform who normally assumes an enormous pie-shaped form with a face consisting of eyes, a mouth, and sometimes a nose, long rubbery arms with only two fingers each, and stalk-like legs with two toes each. His body resembles dough both in appearance and in consistency.\n\nDoughboy was employed by Arnim Zola against Captain America in Zola's first encounter with the Captain.\n\nYears later, Zola merged Doughboy with Primus, who took control of Doughboy and conspired with Baron Zemo against Captain America.\n\nSeveral years later, Doughboy was separated from Primus, and was again serving Zola. Doughboy fought and defeated Crossbones when they entered Zola's castle. Doughboy later used his shape-shifting powers to mimic an Avengers quinjet during Zola's rescue of the Red Skull and Skeleton Crew. Doughboy next captured Captain America and the Eric Masterson version of Thor at Skullhouse, and took them to the bottom of Devil's Lake on Zola's order. Doughboy was split open and smashed into bits by Masterson.\n\nDoughboy later fought the Thunderbolts when they invaded Zola's base in China.\n\nDoughboy is a genetically-engineered bioform created by Arnim Zola. Doughboy is mentally impaired, but possesses a high degree of superhuman strength, durability, and agility. Doughboy possesses an extremely malleable body, enabling him to alter his shape at will. He can alter the color and even the hardness of his body, and once even effectively duplicated the appearance of an Avengers quinjet. He can stretch, deform, expand, compress, and flatten all or part of his body at will. Within certain limits he can use his body to enclose and muffle an explosion and absorb the impact of bullets or other projectiles without harm to himself. His body is highly adhesive and is as viscous as tar. Hence, his body can trap and absorb persons or objects as if it were made of quicksand. Although Doughboy can be injured, his wounds close immediately without bleeding. Doughboy can shed excess body mass at will and apparently can add to his body mass by absorption of organic matter. The Eric Masterson Thor once battered Doughboy to pieces, but it is believed that he was able to reform himself.\n\nDoughboy is capable of self-levitation, allowing flight and subsonic speeds.\n\nDoughboy is not sentient; hence, while he can understand and follow his master's commands, he has no creative intelligence and virtually no will of his own. He is apparently incapable of speech.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1952661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952661", "title": "Fala (dog)", "text": "Fala (dog)\n\nFala (April 7, 1940 – April 5, 1952), a Scottish Terrier, was the dog of U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt. One of the most famous presidential pets, Fala was taken many places by Roosevelt. Given to the Roosevelts by a cousin, Fala knew how to perform tricks; the dog and his White House antics were mentioned frequently by the media and often referenced by Roosevelt and his wife Eleanor. Fala survived Roosevelt by seven years and was buried near him.\n\nA statue of Fala beside Roosevelt is featured in Washington, D.C.'s Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, the only presidential pet so honored. Another statue of Fala has been placed at Puerto Rico's \"Paseo de los Presidentes\" in San Juan.\n\nFala was born on April 7, 1940. Roosevelt's distant cousin, Margaret \"Daisy\" Suckley, gave the dog to Roosevelt as an early Christmas gift. As a puppy, Fala was given obedience training by Suckley, who taught him to sit, roll over, and jump. His original name was Big Boy; Roosevelt renamed him Murray the Outlaw of Falahill after John Murray of Falahill, a famous Scottish ancestor. This was later shortened to \"Fala\".\n\nAfter a few weeks at the White House, Fala was taken to the hospital for intestinal problems. Roosevelt discovered that Fala had found his way to the kitchen and was being overfed. Roosevelt issued an order to the staff that Fala would henceforth be fed only by the president himself.\n\nFala was relocated into the White House on November 10, 1940, and spent most of his time there until Roosevelt's death during April 1945. Fala also traveled with Roosevelt to his home (Springwood) in Hyde Park, New York, and to Warm Springs, Georgia, where Roosevelt received treatment for his paralytic illness.\n\nAn MGM movie about a typical day in the White House featured Fala. Fala also became an honorary private of the U.S. Army by \"contributing\" $1 to the war effort for every day of the year and setting an example for others on the \"home front\". During the Battle of the Bulge, American soldiers asked one another the name of the President's dog, expecting the answer \"Fala,\" as a supplementary safeguard against German soldiers attempting to infiltrate American ranks while conducting Operation Grief.\n\nFala often accompanied Roosevelt to important events; he traveled in \"Sacred Cow\", the president's airplane, and in \"Ferdinand Magellan\", Roosevelt's custom-made train car, as well as by ship. He was with Roosevelt at the Atlantic Charter Conference, Quebec, and the meeting with President Manuel Ávila Camacho of Mexico in Monterrey.\n\nDuring 1943, Fala was the subject of a short series of political cartoons by Alan Foster titled \"Mr. Fala of the White House\". In the 1943 romantic comedy \"Princess O'Rourke\", Fala was played by Whiskers.\n\nOn September 23, 1944, Roosevelt began his 1944 presidential campaign in Washington, D.C., speaking at a dinner with the International Teamsters Union. The half-hour speech was also broadcast by all U.S. radio networks. In the speech, Roosevelt criticized Republican opponents in Congress and detailed their criticisms of him. Late in the speech, Roosevelt addressed Republican charges that he had accidentally left Fala behind on the Aleutian Islands while on tour there and had sent a U.S. Navy destroyer to retrieve him at an exorbitant cost to the taxpayers:\nThese Republican leaders have not been content with attacks on me, or my wife, or on my sons. No, not content with that, they now include my little dog, Fala. Well, of course, I don't resent attacks, and my family don't resent attacks, but Fala does resent them. You know, Fala is Scotch, and being a Scottie, as soon as he learned that the Republican fiction writers in Congress and out had concocted a story that I'd left him behind on an Aleutian island and had sent a destroyer back to find him—- at a cost to the taxpayers of two or three, or eight or twenty million dollars—- his Scotch soul was furious. He has not been the same dog since. I am accustomed to hearing malicious falsehoods about myself ... But I think I have a right to resent, to object, to libelous statements about my dog.\nThe idea of turning the Republican charges into a joke was that of Orson Welles. Campaigning extensively for Roosevelt, Welles occasionally sent him ideas and phrases that were sometimes incorporated into what Welles characterized as \"less important speeches\". One of these was the \"Fala speech\". Welles ad-libbed the Fala joke for the president, who was so delighted that he had a final version written into the speech by his staff. After the broadcast Roosevelt asked Welles, \"How did I do? Was my timing right?\"\n\n\"The audience went wild, laughing and cheering and calling for more,\" wrote historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. \"And the laughter carried beyond the banquet hall; it reverberated in living rooms and kitchens throughout the country, where people were listening to the speech on their radios. The Fala bit was so funny, one reporter observed, that 'even the stoniest of Republican faces cracked a smile.'\"\n\nPresident Roosevelt died at Warm Springs, Georgia, during 1945. In the minutes after his death, Fala behaved very strangely. FDR biographer Jim Bishop wrote about the death scene: \"… a snapping, snarling series of barks was heard. No one had paid any attention to Fala. He had been dozing in a corner of the room. For a reason beyond understanding, he ran directly for the front screen door and bashed his black head against it. The screen broke and he crawled through and ran snapping and barking up into the hills. There, Secret Service men could see him, standing alone, unmoving, on an eminence. This led to the quiet question: 'Do dogs really know?'\" \n\nFala attended Roosevelt's funeral and went to live with the widowed Eleanor Roosevelt at Val-Kill. She took great pleasure in Fala's company, and the two became inseparable companions. She often mentioned Fala in her newspaper column, \"My Day\", and wrote of him in her autobiography:\nIt was Fala, my husband's little dog, who never really readjusted. Once, in 1945, when General Eisenhower came to lay a wreath on Franklin's grave, the gates of the regular driveway were opened and his automobile approached the house accompanied by the wailing of the sirens of a police escort. When Fala heard the sirens, his legs straightened out, his ears pricked up and I knew that he expected to see his master coming down the drive as he had come so many times. Later, when we were living in the cottage, Fala always lay near the dining-room door where he could watch both entrances just as he did when his master was there. Franklin would often decide suddenly to go somewhere and Fala had to watch both entrances in order to be ready to spring up and join the party on short notice. Fala accepted me after my husband's death, but I was just someone to put up with until the master should return.\nDuring November 1945 Fala was hospitalized for a week after being attacked at the family's Hyde Park estate by Elliott Roosevelt's 135-pound bull mastiff, Blaze. Fala had been staying with Margaret Suckley and visited Hyde Park. He was on a leash when the larger dog jumped on him, slashing his back and right eye. The attack ended when someone struck Blaze with a rock and dazed him. Blaze tested negative for rabies, but was still euthanized as a precaution against future attacks.\n\nSuffering from deafness and failing health, Fala was euthanized on April 5, 1952, two days before his twelfth birthday. Fala is buried in a marked grave about ten yards behind the Roosevelt tombstone in the Rose Garden at Springwood, beside Chief (1918–1933), the Roosevelts' German Shepherd.\n\nA statue of Fala beside Roosevelt is featured in the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in Washington, D.C. Fala is the only presidential pet so honored. Another statue of him has been placed at Puerto Rico's \"Paseo de los Presidentes\" in San Juan. A third statue is in the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, NY. Fala's collar, dog dish, White House dog tags and other artifacts also are on display. \n\n"}
{"id": "6103825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6103825", "title": "Flora Call Disney", "text": "Flora Call Disney\n\nFlora Call Disney (April 22, 1868November 26, 1938) was the mother of Walt and Roy Disney.\n\nCall was born in Steuben, Ohio, the daughter of Henrietta (née Gross; 1837–1910) and Charles Call (1823–1890), who were neighbors of Kepple Disney, father of Elias Disney, her husband. She was of German and English descent. \n\nFlora died in 1938 in an accident that plagued her son Walt with grief for the rest of his life. After the success of their film \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", in 1938, Walt and Roy presented their parents with a new home in North Hollywood, near the Disney studios in Burbank, California. Less than a month after moving in, Flora complained to Walt and Roy of problems with the gas furnace in her new home. Studio repairmen were sent to the house, but the problem was not adequately fixed. Flora wrote a letter to her daughter Ruth describing the wonderful new home, but again complaining of the fumes from the furnace. A few days later, Flora died of asphyxiation caused by the fumes at age 70. She is entombed next to her husband in Glendale's Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1282469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282469", "title": "Frederick Stark Pearson", "text": "Frederick Stark Pearson\n\nFrederick Stark Pearson (July 3, 1861 – May 7, 1915) was an American electrical engineer and entrepreneur.\n\nDr. Frederick Stark Pearson was the son of Ambrose and Hannah (Edgerly) Pearson. He graduated from Tufts University in 1883 with an A.M.B. and received an A.M.M. degree one year later. Previously, for one year (1879–80), he was instructor in chemistry in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; later (1883–86), he was instructor in mathematics and applied mechanics at Tufts College. From college, he went on to develop the electric transportation system in Boston and, with electric powered streetcars of major importance, in 1894 he was appointed the head engineer for Metropolitan Street Railways in New York City. Pearson built a reputation as an innovative electrical engineer in the United States and he was soon contracted by governments and businesses as a consulting engineer for power generating stations throughout North America. A man with great business skills and a foresight, with ready financial backers he undertook major projects in North and South America. He was the Founder of Barcelona Traction and Brookfield Asset Management.\n\nWhile in Canada, he developed a relationship with a bright and aggressive young lawyer/stockbroker in Montreal, Quebec by the name of James Dunn. Pearson encouraged Dunn to take up residency in London, at the time the most important financial market in the world.\n\nWith Dunn's brokerage house underwriting his ventures share offerings, sufficient capital was raised to allow Pearson to create a massive business empire that included the São Paulo Tramway, Light and Power Company in Brazil, the Mexican North Western Railway, the Mexican Tramway Company, and the Mexican Light and Power Company in Mexico, and the British American Nickel Company in Canada.\n\nUnstable governments in Mexico along with rampant bribery and corruption of public officials caused Pearson considerable grief. The government of president Venustiano Carranza nationalized his Mexican Tramway Company and in the end, he lost virtually everything he had invested in Mexico. During this time, he was behind the 1911 construction of the Medina Dam on the Medina River in what is now Mico, Texas and built an irrigation district encompassing more than 34,000 acres (138 km²). The town of Pearson, Texas was named in his honor.\n\nIn 1912, he organized a syndicate in Hale County, Texas near Plainview for drilling irrigation wells to irrigate about 60,000 acres (243 km²). During the course of his work in Texas, Pearson founded the town of Natalia, naming it after his daughter, Natalie Pearson Nicholson.\n\nIn 1913, he negotiated a deal with the Spanish government for a hydro project on the Ebro River and formed the Barcelona Traction, Light and Power Company to carry out the construction that was completed in 1915. However, World War I limited his activity.\n\nHe and his wife, Mabel Ward Pearson, lost their lives on May 7, 1915, while travelling to England on business and to visit his daughter Natalie who was then living there. They were on the ocean liner when it was torpedoed off the southern coast of Ireland by German U-boat .\n\nPearson Hall, home of the Chemistry Department at Tufts University, is named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "8674230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8674230", "title": "Führermuseum", "text": "Führermuseum\n\nThe Führermuseum (English, Leader's Museum), also referred to as the Linz art gallery, was an unrealized art museum within a cultural complex planned by Adolf Hitler for his hometown, the Austrian city of Linz, near his birthplace of Braunau. Its purpose was to display a selection of the art bought, confiscated or stolen by the Nazis from throughout Europe during World War II. The cultural district was to be part of an overall plan to recreate Linz, turning it into a cultural capital of Nazi Germany and one of the greatest art centers of Europe, overshadowing Vienna, for which Hitler had a personal distaste. He wanted to make the city more beautiful than Budapest, so it would be the most beautiful on the Danube River, as well as an industrial powerhouse and a hub of trade; the museum was planned to be one of the greatest in Europe.\n\nThe expected completion date for the project was 1950, but neither the \"Führermuseum\" nor the cultural center it was to anchor were ever built. The only part of the elaborate plan which was constructed was the Nibelungen Bridge, which is still extant.\n\nAs early as 1925, Hitler had conceived of a \"German National Gallery\" to be built in Berlin with himself as director. His plan, drawn out in a sketchbook, may have been influenced by the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum, and consisted of a building with two sections, one with 28 rooms and the other with 32. Hitler denoted which of his favorite 19th-century German artists were to be collected, and in what rooms their work would hang. Among his favorite painters were Hans Makart, Franz Defregger, Eduard Grützner, Franz von Stuck, Franz von Lenbach, Anselm Feuerbach, Heinrich Zügel and Carl Spitzweg, and he had extolled \"Aryan art\" by Moritz von Schwind and Arnold Böcklin in \"Mein Kampf\". At one time in his planning he dedicated five of the rooms in the museum to the work of Adolph von Menzel and three rooms to both Schwind and Böcklin. Carl Rottmann, Edouard von Engerth, and Anton von Werner were to share a single room, as were Makart and Karl von Piloty; Wilhelm Trübner and Fritz von Uhde; Grützner and Defregger; and the artists of the Nazarene movement. Other painters who would enjoy their own room in Hitler's original plans were Peter von Cornelius, Hans von Marées, Bonaventura Genelli, Anselm Feuerbach and Wilhelm Leibl. These choices reflected Hitler's taste at the time, which was a preference for sentimental 19th-century Germanic romantic painters, including \"both 'schmaltzy' genre pictures ... [and] heroic, idyllic, allegorical. historical-patriotic themes, the visual equivalent of Wagner, without the genius.\"\n\nIt was after the \"Anschluss\" with Austria, with the House of German Art in Munich already completed, that Hitler conceived of having his dream museum not in any of the premiere cities in Germany, where it could be overshadowed, but in his \"hometown\" of Linz in Austria, and discussed his plans with the director of the local Provincial Museum, Theodor Kerschner, while visiting there.\n\nAdditionally, after a state trip to Rome, Florence and Naples in 1938 – between the \"Anschluss\" with Austria and the taking of the Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia – Hitler, \"overwhelmed and challenged by the riches of the Italian museums\" expanded the conception of his planned gallery. It would now be the unsurpassed art gallery in all of Europe, indeed \"the greatest museum in the world\", featuring the finest of all European art. He conceived that the best of Germanic art would have pride of place in the National Gallery in Berlin, while the new museum in Linz would feature the best of the art of the Mediterranean world, especially from the nineteenth-century.\n\nThe idea and overall design concept for a new cultural district in Linz anchored by the \"Führermuseum\" was Hitler's own. He intended Linz to be one of the future cultural capitals of the Reich, to have its own university, and to overshadow Vienna, a city in which he had spent some years as a struggling artist, and about which he felt considerable distaste, not only because of the Jewish influence on the city, but because of his own failure to gain admission to the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts.\n\n[Hitler] envisaged Linz as the future seat of the new German \"Kultur\", and lavished all his limited pictorial talent and architectural training on a vast project which would realize this ambition... [He] devoted a disproportionate amount of time and energy, for a chief of state, to the plans for Linz, personally creating the architectural scheme for an imposing array of public buildings, and setting the formula for an art collection which was to specialize heavily in his beloved, mawkish German school of the nineteenth century. His private library, discovered by the American Army deep in Austria, contained scores of completed architectural renderings for the Linz project...\n\nAccording to one of Hitler's secretaries, he never tired of talking about his planned museum, and it was often the subject at his regular afternoon teas. He would expound on how the paintings were to be hung: with plenty of space between them, in rooms decorated with furniture and furnishings appropriate to the period, and how they were to be lit. No detail of the presentation of the artworks was too small for his consideration. He said of the museum in 1942 \"Anyone who wants to study nineteenth-century painting will sooner or later find it necessary to go to the Linz gallery, because only there will it be possible to find complete collections.\"\n\nIn Autumn 1940, Hitler commissioned architect Hermann Giesler, a devout Nazi, to be in overall charge of the rebuilding of Linz, one of the five designated \"Führerstädte\" (\"Führer cities\"), along with Berlin, Hamburg, Nuremberg and Munich, which were to be redeveloped drastically. Linz was to become a major cultural center, an art capital of Europe, a hub of trade and commerce, and the most beautiful city on the Danube, surpassing Budapest. It would have a new City Hall, new Nazi Party headquarters and a new railway station, a stadium, a community hall, a technical university, an institute of metallurgy, a planetarium, a suspension bridge, and two new towers, one of them with a carillon and a mausoleum for Hitler's parents. The city would also have Hitler's own retirement residence, designed by Giesler. In addition to all this, the Vienna facilities of the Hermann-Göring-Werks steel plant were to be moved to Linz as well, over the objections of officials of the city, the architects, and Fritz Todt, who thought the industrial facilities were incompatible with a city of art, architecture and culture. Hitler, though, wanted to provide the city with an ongoing means of income after he was dead and could no longer subsidize it.\n\nThe cultural center at the heart of the redevelopment, the buildings for which were based on Hitler's ideas and rough designs, came to be referred to as the \"European Culture Center\". It included a monumental theatre, a concert hall, a library with over 250,000 volumes, an opera house as well as an operetta house, a cinema, a collection of armor and an Adolf Hitler Hotel, all surrounded by huge boulevards and a parade ground. Located south of the historic section of Linz, the main buildings, including the \"Führermuseum\", were to be aligned along one main avenue, In den Lauben, which after the war was called \"a typical National Socialist axis street.\" It would be anchored at the other end by the new railway station.\n\nThe design of the many buildings of the cultural center were assigned to various architects Hitler favored. The museum itself was designed by Roderich Fick based closely on Hitler's sketches and specifications, modeled somewhat after Paul Ludwig Troost's \"Haus der Deutschen Kunst\" (\"House of German Art\") in Munich – itself strongly influenced by Hitler's participation in the design process – and would feature a colonnaded facade about 500 feet (150 meters) long. It would stand on the site of the Linz railroad station, which was to be moved four kilometers to the south. Should the volume of German art bought, confiscated and plundered for the museum be such that expansion was needed, an additional building could easily be integrated into the planned district.\n\nBy January 1945, Hitler became obsessed with seeing a model of the planned cultural complex; he had his adjutants and Martin Bormann, his personal secretary and head of the Nazi Party Chancellery, call Giesler's office repeatedly, to ask when the Führer could view the model. Giesler's office worked around the clock to finish it. The model was finally set up in the cellar of the new Reich Chancellery, and was ready for viewing on 9 February, when it was examined by Hitler, Robert Ley, the Leader of the German Labor Front, and SS-\"Oberguppenfūhrer\" Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Chief of the Security Police, along with Hitler's personal photographer Walter Frentz and his valet, Heinz Lange. Hitler was apparently entranced by what he saw:\n\nBent over the model, he viewed it from all angles, and in different kinds of lighting. He asked for a seat. He checked the proportions of the different buildings. He asked about the details of the bridges. He studied the model for a long time, apparently lost in thought. While Geisler stayed in Berlin, Hitler accompanied him twice daily to view the model, in the afternoon and again during the night. Others in his entourage were taken down to have his building plans explained to them as they pored over the model. Looking down on the model of a city which, he knew, would never be built, Hitler could fall in reverie, revisiting the fantasies of his youth, when he would dream with his friend Kubizek about rebuilding Linz.\n\nHitler visited the model frequently during his time living in the bunker under the Reich Chancellery, spending many hours sitting silently in front of it. The closer Germany came to military defeat, the more viewing the model became Hitler's only relief; being invited to view it with him was an indication of the Führer's esteem.\n\nNear the end of the war, when American forces overran Hitler's private library, which was hidden deep in Austria, it contained \"scores\" of plans and renderings for the museum and the complex. They also found \"The Future Economic Status of the City of Linz\" a 78-page bound volume prepared for Hitler by the Economic and Research Section of the Oberdonau Department of the Interior, which outlined in detail how the revitalization of Linz would take place. The entire Linz project was treated as a state secret on Hitler's order.\n\nThe collection for the planned museum in Linz was accumulated through several methods. Hitler himself sent Heinrich Heim, one of Martin Bormann's adjutants who had expertise in paintings and graphics, on trips to Italy and France to buy artworks, which Hitler paid for with his own money, which came from sales of \"Mein Kampf\", real estate speculation on land in the area of the \"Berghof\", Hitler's mountain retreat on the Obersalzberg, and royalties from Hitler's image used on postage stamps. The latter, which was divided with his official photographer Heinrich Hoffmann, amounted to at least $75 million marks over the course of Hitler's reign.\n\nThis, however, was not the primary method used to build up the collection.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, Hitler's birthday was celebrated nationally on April 20 beginning in 1933, the year Hitler became Chancellor, through 1944. For his 50th birthday in 1939, the day was declared a National Holiday. As part of these celebrations Hitler would receive numerous presents, among which were paintings and other art objects. These were set aside for use in the planned \"Führermuseum\" in Linz.\n\nHitler's 56th birthday in 1945 was a private celebration held in the bunker under the Reich Chancellery in Berlin as the Soviet Red Army battled to take the city; even under those circumstances, Hitler would frequently spend hours in the basement of the Chancellery looking at the scale model of the proposed rebuilding of Linz, which centered on the cultural district around the \"Fŭhrermuseum\". Nine days after his birthday, Hitler married Eva Braun, and they committed suicide together the following day.\n\nIn the first weeks after the Anschluss in March 1938, which brought Austria into the German Reich, both the Gestapo and the Nazi Party confiscated numerous artworks for themselves. In response, on 18 June 1938, Hitler issued a decree placing all artwork that had been seized in Austria under the personal prerogative of the Führer:\n\nAs part of the seizure of assets hostile to the state– especially Jewish assets – in Austria, paintings and other artwork of great value, among other things, have been confiscated. The Führer requests that this artwork, for the most part from Jewish hands, be neither used as furnishings of administration offices or senior bureaucrats’ official residences nor purchased by leading state and party leaders. The Führer plans to personally decide on the use of the property after its seizure. He is considering putting artwork first and foremost at the disposal of small Austrian towns for their collections.\n\nThe intent of the order was to guarantee that Hitler would have first choice of the plundered art for his planned \"Führermuseum\" and for other museums in the Reich. This later became a standard procedure for all purloined or confiscated art, and was known as the \"Führer-Reserve.\"\n\nOn 21 June 1939, Hitler set up the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" (\"Special Commission: Linz\") in Dresden and appointed Hans Posse, director of the \"Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister\" (\"Dresden Painting Gallery\"), as a special envoy. A few days later, on 26 June, Hitler signed a letter intended to give Posse the authority he would need to do this job. He wrote:\n\nI commission Dr. Hans Posse, Director of Dresden Gallery, to build up the new art museum for Linz Donau. All Party and State services are ordered to assist Dr. Posse in fulfillment of his mission.\n\nPosse had a checkered relationship with the National Socialists. His wife had joined the Nazi Party in 1932, but when Posse himself tried to join in 1933, his application was rejected a year later. He was later accused of having promoted so-called \"Degenerate art\", and of having Jewish ancestry. In 1938 he was asked to resign as director – a position he had held since 1910 from the age of 31 – but refused, taking a leave of absence instead. He was nevertheless fired, only to be restored to the position on Hitler's orders, possibly through the influence of art dealer Karl Haberstock.\n\nAlthough Hitler had favored German and Austrian paintings from the 19th century, Posse's focus was on early German, Dutch, French, and Italian paintings. Posse wrote in his diary that Hitler intended the museum to hold \"only the best of all periods from the prehistoric beginnings of art...to the nineteenth century and recent times.\" Hitler told Posse that he was only to answer to him.\n\nThe \"Sonderauftrag\" not only collected art for the \"Führermuseum\", but also for other museums in the German Reich, especially in the eastern territories. The artworks would have been distributed to these museums after the war. The \"Sonderauftrag\" was located in Dresden had approximately 20 specialists attached to it: \"curators of paintings, prints, coins, and armor, a librarian, an architect, an administrator, photographers, and restorers.\" The staff included Robert Oertel and Gottfried Reimer of the Dresden Gallery, Friedrich Wolffhardt, an SS officer, as curator of books and autographs; Leopold Rupprecht of the \"Kunsthistorisches Museum\" as curator for armour, and Fritz Dworschak, also of that museum, as curator for coins.\n\nOn 24 July 1939, Martin Bormann, Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess's assistant, informed Josef Bürckel, who Hitler had appointed to head the administration of Austria after the Anschluss, that all artwork which was confiscated was to be made available for examination by Posse or by Hitler personally. Although the order did not originally include the artworks taken earlier from the Vienna Rothschilds, by October Posse had managed to get those included in his remit as well. \n\nIn the late summer and autumn of that year, Posse traveled a number of times to Vienna to the Central Depot for confiscated art in the Neue Burg to pick out art pieces for the Linz museum, and in October he gave to Bormann, for Hitler's approval, the list of artworks confiscated from the Rothschilds which Posse had selected for the museum. These included works by Hans Holbein the Elder, van Dyck, Rembrandt, Frans Hals, Tintoretto, Gerard ter Borch and Francesco Guardi, among others. These 182 pieces were also included in Posse's July 1940 list of 324 paintings he had chosen for the museum's collection. \n\nOn 13 June 1940, Hitler authorized Posee to travel to Holland, where he had to compete with Alfred Rosenberg's ERR organization (see below), Kajetan Mǔhllman, Herman Gõring's art curator Walter Andres Hofer and Goring himself in claiming works by Dutch masters, many of which had been purloined, expropriated or confiscated by various Nazi agencies on a number of grounds.\n\nPosse went to Poland around November 1940 to examine expropriated artworks there, some of which had been looted by the German Army from museums, palaces and country homes. All of the country's artworks in the German-occupied areas were then cataloged by SS officer and art historian Kajetan Mühlmann, who had done the same previously in Vienna. Posse selected works by Leonardo, Raphael, and Rembrandt for the museum in Linz, although these pieces never actually left the control of the General Government, the Nazi-occupied rump of Poland left after Germany and the Soviet Union took the territory they wanted.\n\nOn 10 June 1940, Posse wrote to Bormann:\n\nThe special delegate for the safeguarding of art and cultural properties has just returned from Holland. He notified me today that there exists at the moment a particularly favorable opportunity to purchase valuable works of art from Dutch dealers and private owners in German currency. Even though a large number of important works have doubtless been removed recently from Holland, I believe that the trade still contains many objects which are desirable for the Führer's collection, and which may be acquired without foreign exchange.\n\nAs a result of this, accounts of about 500,000 \"Reichsmarks\" were opened in Paris and Rome for Posse's personal use, and, around July 1940, he expanded the scope of the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" into Belgium and the Netherlands when he established an office in The Hague as \"Referent für Sonderfragen\" (Adviser on \"Special Questions\"). Posse was able to report to Bormann that as of March 1941 he had spent 8,522,348 \"Reichsmarks\" on artworks for the \"Führermuseum\". He later bought most of the Mannheimer Collection in 1944, including Rembrandt's \"Jewish Doctor\" – assisted by the threat of confiscation from the Nazi government of Arthur Seyss-Inquart – with the remainder of the collection being purchased in the same manner in France later on. The collecting of the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" includes many such cases of forced sale, using funds from sales of Hitler's book \"Mein Kampf\" and stamps showing his portrait. Members of the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" made a considerable number of purchasing trips throughout Europe, acquiring a significant number of artworks, and also arranged purchases through art dealers.\n\nHitler was pleased with Posse's work, and in 1940 awarded him the honorific of \"Professor\", something the Führer did for many of his favorites in the arts, such as Leni Riefenstahl, the actress and film director; architects Albert Speer and Hermann Giesler; sculptors Arno Breker and Josef Thorak; Wilhelm Furtwängler, conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic; actor Emil Jannings; and photographer Heinrich Hoffmann; among others.\n\nIn October 1939, Hitler and Benito Mussolini had made an agreement that any Germanic artworks in public museums in the South Tyrol – a traditionally German-speaking area which had been given to Italy after the First World War in return for entering the war on the side of the Triple Entente – could be removed and returned to Germany, but when Posse attempted to do so, with the assistance of Heinrich Himmler's \"Ahnenerbe\", the Italians managed to keep putting things off, and no repatriations ever took place.\n\nPosse died in December 1942 of cancer. His funeral was a high state event to which Hitler invited the directors of all art museums in the Reich; Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels delivered the eulogy, although there was no mention made of the Linz Museum project, since it was a state secret Posse had gathered more than 2500 artworks for the Linz museum in the three years he was head of the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\".\n\nIn March 1943, , an art historian, director of the Wiesbaden Gallery and former deputy director of the Kaiser Friedrich Museum in Berlin took over the Special Commission. His appointment was considered odd by some, since he was known to be an anti-Nazi with a considerable number of Jewish friends and colleagues, but Hitler was known to overlook political factors when dealing with matters of art, and Voss's knowledge of southern German artwork, as well as French and Italian painting, may have decided the matter for him. Voss was not nearly as active or energetic as Posse had been, and was prone to send out agents rather than to travel himself to make purchases, or to make dealers bring works to him.\n\nHitler's relationship with Voss was not as warm as with Posse. The two men met only on several occasions, and Voss was not given authority over books, armour and coins, as Posse had been. Voss is said to have remarked after one meeting with the Führer, \"He's even worse than I thought.\" Voss attempted to mend his fences with Hitler with an elaborate gift for his birthday in 1944, accompanied by a list of his acquisitions in which he claimed to have bought 881 items, compared to 122 paintings that Posse had collected the year before. Voss did indeed spend money more profligately than Posse had, and his budget was later reduced near the end of the war. Under interrogation after the war he claimed to have acquired 3000 painting for the \"Führermuseum\" between 1943 and 1944, although the records do not support this figure, and many of the artworks were of distinctly secondary importance.\n\nIn April 1943, the German public first heard about the Linz project in a special edition of Heinrich Hoffmann's art magazine \"Kunst dem Volk\" (\"Art to the People\"). It revealed both the intention to build a great art gallery in Linz and the existence of the collection which had been amassed for it, although, of course, nothing was said about the methods used to acquire many of the pieces. The magazine featured colored plates of works in the collection by Rembrandt, Leonardo da Vinci, Breughel and Vermeer, among others. Up to that time, only two works which had been collected for the Linz museum had been seen by the public – but without disclosure of where they were eventually designated to go – the first was Myron's sculpture \"Discobolus\" (\"The Discus Thrower\"), which Hitler obtained surreptitiously in 1938 through the Berlin State Museum, but ordered to be displayed at the \"Glyptothek\" in Munich, where he proudly told his invited guests at the unveiling \"May you all then realize how glorious man already was back then in his physical beauty\". The other work was Makart's triptych \"The Plague in Florence\", which Hitler acquired as a gift from Mussolini, who, when the owners refused to sell it, seized their villa and confiscated the painting, which he presented to the Führer at the train station in Florence.\n\nBy December 1944, Posse and Voss had collectively spent 70 million Reichsmarks on accumulating the collection intended for the \"Fuhrermuseum\"; although it should be noted that artworks bought in Vichy France were paid for with francs which were set by the Nazis at an artificially low exchange rate with the Reichmark. In 1945, the count of art items in the collection was over 8,000.\n\nThe legal authority for the collection of artworks for the \"Führermuseum\" began with Hitler himself, who, after the Enabling Act of 1933, had the power to enact laws without involving the Reichstag. In effect, whatever Hitler directed to be done had the force of law. It was his personal desire for the creation of a museum and the revitalization of Linz which began the collection program. Martin Bormann, who became chief of the Nazi Party Chancellery and also Hitler's private secretary, was also closely connected to the program from the beginning, in particular as a conduit through which to access Hitler. He acted as the Chief of Staff for the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\".\n\nOn the next level of hierarchy, Reichsminister Hans Lammers, who was President of the Reich Chancellery, and Helmut von Hummel, Bormann's Special Assistant and \"a particularly viscious Nazi\", actually drew up the directives which set out the policies and procedures which governed the collecting process, both for confiscations and purchases. The financing and administration of the Linz program was their responsibility. von Hummel had replaced Kurt Hanssen.\n\nOther Nazi officials involved in the confiscation of art, but not specifically with collection for the Linz museum, included the Reich Minister for Science, Education, and Culture, Bernhard Rust; the Governor General for Poland, Hans Frank; and Heinrich Himmler, chief of the SS.\n\nBirgit Schwarz published in 2004 19 photograph albums as documents of the intended gallery holdings. These \"Führer albums\", which were created between autumn 1940 and autumn 1944, were presented to Hitler every Christmas and on his birthday, 20 April. Originally thirty-one volumes existed, but only nineteen have been preserved in Germany, and 11 are considered to be lost. The albums are documents of the intended gallery holdings and are the most important historical and visual sources relating to the gallery of the \"Führermuseum\". Notably, the collection included three Rembrandts, \"La Danse\" by Watteau, the Memling portrait by Corsini, the Rubens \"Ganymede\", and Vermeer's \"The Artist in His Studio\", a forced sale at a knock-down price.\n\nIn the \"authoritarian anarchy\" and \"administrative chaos\" that was typical of the way the Third Reich operated, the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" was not the only Nazi agency collecting artworks. In France, as in many other countries in Europe, the office of \"Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg\" (Special Purposes Reich Leader Rosenberg) was the primary agency. On 5 November 1940, a directive from \"Reichsmarchall\" Hermann Göring to Alfred Rosenberg, the head of the ERR, and to the Chief of Military Administration in Paris outlines the several categories of \"ownerless\" art confiscated from Jews for \"safeguarding\". One of the categories were \"Those art objects for the further disposition of which the Führer has reserved for himself the right of decision,\" while other categories were those works desired by Göring himself, those destined for German museums other than the \"Führermuseum\". Although the directive was intended to be effective immediately, Göring indicates that he had yet to clear it with Hitler, but intended to do so.\n\nHitler then issued on 18 November his own directive, a \"Führerbefehl\" similar to the ones he had issued for Poland and Austria, announcing his prerogative over all confiscated art in the occupied Western territories. Rosenberg thus became a formal procurement agent for the \"Führermuseum\", except when Göring intervened. This apparently brought about some internecine squabbling, as Dr. Posse had been given the authority to act on Hitler's behalf, and the German commanders of occupied countries were required to keep him regularly informed about their confiscations of artwork. Probably because of Göring's interference, Posse formally requested that the Reich Chancellery reiterate his power to act for the \"Führer\". The result was a \"general high-level directive\" confirming Hitler's primacy through Posse, and a direction to Posse to review the ERR's inventory in regard to the needs of the planned museum in Linz.\n\nOn 20 March 1941, Rosenberg reported that his unit had proceeded to follow the directive, having \"collected\" over 4000 items; those personally selected by Göring had already been shipped by train to the air-raid shelters of the Führer Building in Munich. Several years later, on 16 April 1943, Rosenberg sent Hitler photographs of some of the more valuable paintings confiscated from the Western Occupied Territories, to add to the 53 photographs he had sent earlier. Rosenberg asked for permission to see Hitler personally, to present a catalog of works seized, as well as 20 additional folders of photographs.\n\nBy one conservative estimate, about 21,903 objects were confiscated from France. Of these, about 700 went to Göring. 53 were earmarked for the Führermuseum in Linz. Rosenberg kept the rest under his own control until 1945. In 2008, the German Historic Museum of Berlin published a database with paintings collected for the \"Führermuseum\" and for other museums in the German Reich.\n\nThe German occupation of Paris began on 14 June 1940, and on 30 June Hitler ordered that artworks in the French national collection be \"safeguarded\", and in particular \"ownerless\" art and historical documents – meaning works which were the property of Jews and could therefore be confiscated from them – be \"protected\" as well. Three days later, the German ambassador in France, Otto Abetz, ordered the confiscation of the collections of the 15 most important art dealers in the city, most of whom were Jewish. These pieces were then brought to the German Embassy. Through the actions of Count Franz von Wolff-Metternich, the head of the \"Kunstschutz\" (Art Protection) – an agency which dated from World War I and which had a mission which was superficially similar to that of the Allied Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program (MFAA) – Nazi military authorities intervened and stopped Abetz from making any more confiscations. Most of the artwork in the Embassy was then transferred for storage to the Louvre, at the suggestion of Jacques Jaujard, the Director of French National Museums.\n\nWolff-Metternich continued in his efforts to protect the artworks, which what he saw as the proper role of his agency. In particular, he was able to fend off Joseph Goebbels' demand that almost a thousand pieces of \"Germanic\" art held in the collection of confiscated pieces be shipped immediately to Germany. Wolff-Metternich did not disagree that the artworks properly belonged in the Reich, but did not think that sending them at the time was the correct course of action, and held off Goebbels with bureaucratic maneuvers and a strict interpretation of Hitler's directive, which specified that artwork in France should not be moved until a peace treaty between France and German had been signed, which had not as yet occurred.\n\nThe collection of artwork in the Louvre was destined to survive the war, and was not subjected to predation from the various Nazi entities confiscating and collecting artwork for shipment back to Germany, including those doing so for Hitler's planned museum in Linz. Wolff-Metternich was eventually removed from his office, as he was not pliable enough to provide the veneer of legality that was wanted by the Nazi authorities. Jaujard was fired as well after his vehement protest over the German theft of the Ghent Altarpiece in 1942, but when the staffs of every French museum resigned in protest over his dismissal, the Nazis were forced to restore him to his office, where he was able to continue to safeguard the French national collection, and provide assistance to the Resistance.\n\nJaujard, however, could do very little to protect the private art collections of Paris and France from the predations of the ERR. These collections – those of the French Rothschilds; Paul Rosenberg, the art dealer; Georges and Daniel Wildenstein; the investment banker Pierre David-Weill; Germain Seligman, the art historian and dealer; Alphonse Kann; and the other great collectors of the time – were systematically subjected to confiscations under various bureaucratically outlined pretenses of \"protection\", and were then brought to the \"Jeu de Paume\" museum, where they were cataloged and divided up for Hitler's collection – Posse took 53 paintings, for Göring's, for the use of Alfred Rosenberg's \"scholarly\" institutions which were attempting to prove the inferiority of Jews, as well as for other purposes. Fortunately, Rose Valland – at the time an unpaid museum employee, later the museum's \"attaché\" and \"Assistante\", – was a member of the French resistance, and had remained working at the museum on Jaujard's orders. Valland kept lists of all the works which came in, the secret storehouses where they were stockpiled when they left the museum, and the numbers of the train cars when the last of the paintings were shipped to Germany just before the Allied recapturing of Paris. Using Valland's information, the Resistance was able to delay the train sufficiently so that it never reached Germany.\n\nAlthough the ERR, in theory, was part of Alfred Rosenberg's Nazi empire, Rosenberg was an ideologue who had no interest in art, and did not appreciate the value to Germany of looting the patrimony of the occupied countries. \"Reichsmarschall\" Hermann Göring, on the other hand, Hitler's anointed successor and the head of the \"Luftwaffe\", was an avid collector of confiscated artworks, with an unquenchable appetite for jewels and finery as well. As a result, the ERR in France became in large part \"Göring's personal looting organization.\" During the course of the war, Göring paid 20 visits to the \"Jeu de Paume\" in Paris to views the results of the ERR's confiscations. At times Göring also utilized Kajetan Mühlmann, an Austrian art historian and SS officer, as his personal agent.\n\nOn occasion, Göring's desires conflicted with those of Hitler and Hitler's agents. When this occurred, Göring gave way, not wanting to provoke trouble with the \"Führer\". Several times, he also made \"gifts\" to the collection of the \"Führermuseum\". He sent 53 pieces from the French Rothschild Collection, which had been confiscated in Paris for him by the ERR, to Munich to be held for the Linz museum, including Vermeer's \"The Astronomer\", sent in November 1940, and which became Hitler's most cherished painting in his collection. Later on, in 1945, Göring gave Hitler 17 paintings and 4 bronzes from the Naples Museum. These had been confiscated by the Hermann Göring Panzer Division while they were being shipped to safety from Monte Cassino to the Vatican, and were later presented to the \"Reichsmarschall\" at Carinhall, his \"hunting lodge/art gallery/imperial palace.\"\n\nAt its peak, Göring's art collection included 1,375 paintings, 250 sculptures and 168 tapestries. Its value has been estimated at several hundred million marks.\n\nWhen the Soviet Army was about to cross the Oder River into Germany in February 1945, threatening Carinhall, Göring began to evacuate his art collection by train, sending it to his other residences in the south of Germany. A second trainload went out in March. and a third in April. The contents of the shipments were personally chosen by Göring, who, at first, was inclined not to take the artwork he had acquired through the confiscations of the ERR, in case there might be questions of provenance in the future, but he was dissuaded from this course by Walter Andreas Hoffer, who was in charge of Göring's collection. Even after the contents of three long trains had left, Carinhall still had a considerable amount of art left in it, statues buried around the grounds, and looted furniture still in the rooms. Göring had \"Luftwaffe\" demolition experts wire the estate for destruction, so the treasures he had left behind would not fall into the hands of the Russians.\n\nA number of art dealers and private individuals profited greatly from Hitler's campaign to stock his planned museum. Primary among them was Karl Haberstock, who operated a wide network of German agents in Paris, the south of France, the Netherlands and Switzerland, but also at least 75 French collaborators. Haberstock declined to take a commission on the major purchases for the museum, but took his regular fee otherwise, amassing a fortune. Thanks to his relationships with Hans Posse and with Hitler, he sold over 100 paintings designated for the Linz collection. When Posse went to France under Hitler's orders, he took the unscrupulous Haberstock with him, and the dealer, working through 82 local agents, purchased 62 pieces for the Linz collection, including works by Rembrandt, Brueghel, Watteau and Rubens.\n\nMaria Almas Dietrich was another art dealer who did well by the Nazi obsession with obtaining art. An acquaintance of Hitler through his official photographer, Heinrich Hoffmann, Dietrich sold 80 paintings to the Linz museum collection, and a further 270 for Hitler's personal collection, as well as over 300 for other German museums and Nazi Party functionaries. Prolific rather than knowledgeable, Dietrich still managed to make a considerable amount of money from the Linz program. She also managed to avoid being sent to a concentration camp, despite having a Jewish father, bearing a child with her Jewish lover, and marrying a Jew from Turkey, although she renounced Judaism after divorcing him. Hitler, despite his rabid anti-Semitism, was frequently, but not consistently, an unconventional Nazi when it came to Jews involved in the arts. It may also have helped that Hitler's mistress Eva Braun was a friend of Dietrich's daughter.\n\nUnlike Dietrich, SA-\"Gruppenführer\" Prince Philipp of Hessen was a connoisseur of the arts and architecture and acted as Posse's principal agent in Italy, where he lived with his wife, a daughter of King Victor Emmanuel. A grandson of the German Emperor Frederick III, and a great-grandson of Queen Victoria, Philipp provided \"a veneer of aristocratic elegance which facilitated important purchases from the Italian nobility.\" Philipp assisted Posse in purchasing 90 paintings from Italy, and bought several more for the Linz collection on his own account.\n\nAnother dealer used by Hans Posse was Hildebrand Gurlitt, through whom he made expensive purchases of tapestries, paintings and drawings.\n\nOther Nazi agents in the Linz program included Kajetan Mühlmann, a high SS official whose territories were Poland and the Netherlands; Baron Kurt von Behr, the head of the ERR in France; and Hitler's photographer Heinrich Hoffmann, an early art adviser who fell from Hitler's favor after 1941, due to Martin Bormann's dislike of him, but who had acted as an intermediary between some German art dealers and the Linz program, and possibly did the same in the Netherlands as well.\n\nThere is some debate about whether art for the \"Führermuseum\" was primarily stolen or purchased. Hanns Christian Löhr argues in \"Das Braune Haus der Kunst: Hitler und der \"Sonderauftrag Linz\"\" (\"The Brown House of Art and the 'Sonderauftrag Linz'\") that only a small portion of the collection – possibly 12 percent – came from seizures or expropriation. Moreover, another 2.5% was derived from forced sales. However, Jonathan Petropoulos, a historian at Loyola College in Baltimore and an expert in wartime looting, argues that most of the purchases were not \"arm's length\" in nature. , a Dutch historian, said those sales amounted to \"technical looting,\" since the Netherlands and other occupied countries were forced to accept German \"Reichsmarks\" that ultimately proved worthless. Aalders argues that \"If Hitler's or Goering's art agent stood on your doorstep and offered $10,000 for the painting instead of the $100,000 it was really worth, it was pretty hard to refuse.\" He adds that Nazis who encountered reluctant sellers threatened to confiscate the art or arrest the owner. Birgit Schwarz, an expert on the \"Führermuseum\", in her review of Löhr's book, pointed out that the author focused on the purchases which were held in the \"Führerbau\" in Munich and ignored the deposits of looted art in Upper Austria in Thürntal, Kremsmünster and Hohenfurt/Vyssi Brod.\n\nOn the subject of purchases versus confiscations, Dr. Cris Whetton, the author of \"Hitler's Fortune\" commented:\n\nI had expected to find that [Hitler] was directly responsible for looting and stealing of paintings that he wanted for himself, and I couldn't find any evidence of it, I found evidence that he \"paid\" for them; sometimes at knock-down prices, but not direct theft in any way. I was quite surprised by this, and I have to say in all honesty that's what I found.\n\nThe Dutch Advisory Committee on the Assessment of Restitution Applications for Items of Cultural Value and the Second World War assesses sales by Dutch Jews to the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\". At least two restitution claims were rejected because the Committee argued that there were not enough indications showing coercion as the cause of the sale. For example, in 2009 the Restitution Committee rejected the application for the restitution of 12 works sold by the Jewish art dealer Kurt Walter Bachstitz to the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" between 1940 and 1941. The Committee argued that Bachstitz had been \"undisturbed\" in the first years of the occupation and said it had not found signs of coercion. In 2012 the Commission rejected a claim of the heirs of Benjamin and Nathan Katz, former Jewish art dealers in the Netherlands. The claim related \"inter alia\" to 64 works that the art dealership Katz sold to the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\". The Commission came to the conclusion that there were not enough indications demonstrating that the sales were made under duress.\n\nWorks which Hans Posse purchased in Vienna for the Linz collection included Vermeer's \"The Artist in his Studio\", Titian's \"The Toilet of Venus\", Antonio Canova's \"Polyhymnia\", and several works by Rembrandt. Among the many paintings Karl Haberstock sold to the collection were two Rembrandts, one of which, \"Portrait of Hendrickje Stoffels\" is now thought to be from the Rembrandt workshop and not a work of the master. Oddly, Hitler purchased these for an inflated price, despite the fact that seller was a partly Jewish woman and the paintings could have been confiscated. Posse also purchased over 200 pieces which Jewish owners had managed to get into Switzerland, where they were safe from expropriation. On the other hand, Posse did not shy away from confiscation either, particular in the former Czechoslovakia and Poland, where all property was subject to it, but also in the Netherlands.\n\nIt is not possible to determine with any accuracy the size of the collection which had been amassed for Hitler's planned museum in Linz, but Frederick Spotts suggests that something around 7,000 pieces had been confiscated, bought or purloined specifically for the \"Führermuseum\", and that others from the many other art repositories scattered around Germany would most probably have been added had Hitler won the war and he and his art experts had the opportunity to sort through the artworks and assign them to various museums. According to Spotts the figure of 7,000 accords well with the data released by the Art Looting Investigation Unit. Other experts quote higher figures of up to 8,500 for the ultimate size of the collection.\n\nDespite its size, and the unprecedented access Hitler' agents had to artworks throughout Occupied Europe, the Linz collection had noticeable flaws. According to Spotts, its \"gaps\" included English art, Spanish art and art of the Northern Renaissance; major artists were missing from the Italian part of the collection as well.\n\nWhatever its size and quality, near the end of the war Hitler wanted it understood that he meant the collection to be for the public – even though there were hundreds of artworks that were specifically marked for use in the \"Berghof\", his mountain retreat, and for a castle in Posen which Hitler intended as another residence. Still, in the \"Private Testament\" he drew up the day before his death, he specified that the collection should go to the museum when it was built, writing that they were \"never collected for private purposes, but always only for the expansion of a gallery in my hometown of Linz on the Danube.\"\n\nThe artworks collected for the \"Führermuseum\" were originally stored in a number of places. The purchases were mostly kept in the air raid shelters of the \"Führerbau\" in Munich – one of a number of large buildings Hitler had built in the birthplace of the Nazi Party – where they were under the control of the Nazi Party Chancellery; Hitler would often come to visit them and indulge in long discussions on art as one of the first tasks when coming to Munich, even during the war. Confiscated artworks were stored in deposits in the area of Upper Austria, located in the middle of forests or in the mountains. The ERR alone requisitioned six estates for storage, including Neuschwanstein Castle in the Bavarian Alps, in which items from France were stored; the Benedictine monastery on the island of Frauenchiemsee in the Chiemsee lake, halfway between Munich and Salzburg; an estate in the Salzkammergut hills, which had been a summer residence for the Austrian royal family; and the Grand Duke of Luxembourg's hunting lodge.\n\nRose Valland eventually shared the trove of information she had gathered at the \"Jeu de Paume\" museum, while the Nazis were using it as a way-station for confiscated art, with 1st Lt. James Rorimer, one of the \"Monuments Men\" of the MFAA, who would be attached to the U.S. Seventh Army. It would overrun the places in southern Germany – Heilbronn, Baxheim, Hohenschwangau and Neuschwanstein Castle – which Valland was certain were the locations of the repositories of much of the ERR-looted art which had been shipped back to Germany. Captain Walker Hancock, the Monuments officer for the U.S. First Army, learned the locations of 109 art repositories in Germany east of the Rhine from the former assistant of Count Wolff-Metternich of the \"Kunstschutz\", thereby doubling the number of repositories known at that time. Additional information came to Monuments Men Captain Robert Posey and Private Lincoln Kirstein, who were attached to the U.S. Third Army, from Hermann Bunjes, a corrupted art scholar and former SS Captain who had been deeply involved in the ERR's \"Jeu de Paume\" operation on behalf of Hermann Göring. From Bunjes came the information that Göring had moved his collection out of Carinhall, and, most importantly, the revelation of the existence of a massive repository in the Altaussee salt mines, which included much of Hitler's collection intended for the \"Fuhrermuseum\" in Linz.\n\nDespite the fact that the original storage locations, which had no military purpose and were culturally important in any case, would have been extremely unlikely to have been the subject of an Allied air attack, in 1943 Hitler ordered that these collections be moved. Beginning in February 1944, the artworks were relocated to the 14th-century Steinberg salt mines above the village of Altaussee, code-named \"Dora\", in which the holdings of various Viennese museums had earlier been transferred. The transfer of Hitler's Linz collection from the repositories to the salt mine took 13 months to complete, and utilized both tanks and oxen when the trucks could not navigate the steep, narrow and winding roads because of the winter weather. The final convoy of purloined art arrived at the mine in April 1945, just weeks before V-E Day.\n\nThe labyrinthine salt mine has a single entrance, and a small gasoline-powered narrow-gauge engine pulling a flat car was utilized to navigate to the various caverns created by centuries of salt mining. Into these spaces, workmen built storage rooms which boasted wooden floors, racks specifically designed to hold the paintings and other artworks, up-to-date lighting, and dehumidification equipment. Despite the fact that the salt was mined using pipes and sluices through which flowed gravity-fed water from the mountain, which carried dissolved salt 17 miles away to Bad Ischl, where the water was evaporated, leaving behind the salt, the mine was not naturally humid, as the salt in the mine's walls absorbed excess moisture, keeping the chambers at a constant 65% humidity, while the temperature only varied from a low of 4 degrees Celsius (40 degrees Fahrenheit) in the winter to 8 degrees Celsius (47 degrees in the summer). Mining operations continued as the artwork was loaded into the mines, with the miners occasionally dragooned into helping to unload.\n\nAccording to James S. Plaut, who from November 1944 to April 1946 was Director of the Art Looting Investigation Unit of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the salt mines held:\n\n6755 old master paintings, of which 5350 were destined for Linz, 230 drawings, 1039 prints, 95 tapestries, 68 sculptures, 43 cases of objects d'art, and innumerable pieces of furniture; in addition, 119 cases of books from Hitler's library in Berlin, and 237 cases of books for the Linz library.\n\nThe noted Ghent Altarpiece – the stealing of which had caused Jacques Jaujard to protest vehemently and temporarily lose his job – arrived in the salt mine from Neuschwanstein in the autumn of 1944, and Michelangelo's \"Bruges Madonna\" in October of that year. Detailed records were kept at Dresden and moved to Schloss Weißenstein at the end of the war, where they were confiscated by the Russians, but these were primarily of the paintings stored in Munich in the \"Fuhrerbau\".\n\nAlso in the Altausee repository was \"The Plague in Florence\" by Hans Makart, a favorite of Hitler's It had been given to him by Mussolini after Hitler had asked for it numerous times.\n\nIn April 1945, Supreme Allied Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower gave up Berlin as a \"prestige objective\" that would not be worth the troops killed in order to take it – the death toll was estimated at 100,000 – and ordered the Third and Seventh Armies to turn south, towards what the Allies feared might be an \"Alpine Redoubt\" from which Hitler or fanatical Nazis could operate a harassing guerilla campaign. The area was known to have hidden caches of arms and supplies, and intelligence reports had told of SS units moving from Berlin into that area. This new strategy meant that Neuschwanstein and Altausee would be overrun, and the \"Monuments Men\" would be able to verify and recover the important art repositories that their information said were located in those places.\n\nAs the Allied troops approached the salt mines, August Eigruber, the \"Gauleiter\" of Upper Austria, gave orders to blow it up and destroy the artwork using the eight crates of 500-kilogram bombs he had stored in the mine on 10 and 13 April 1945. Hitler, through Martin Bormann, countermanded this order, and Albert Speer, the Minister of Armaments and War Production, had \"clarified\" Hitler's scorched earth \"Nero Decree\", but Eigruber felt he knew what Hitler's actual intent was. He ignored the pleas from the managers of the mine that it be saved as a vital resource – in Heilbronn another salt mine which was used to store art had been ordered to be blown up, but the miners refused to do so, as the mine was vital to their lives and livelihoods. After the \"Führer\"'s suicide, Eigruber ignored the conflicting and confusing orders coming from Berlin and again ordered the destruction of the mine and all the artwork in it. The managers of the mine attempted to remove the crates of bombs, but were headed off by Eigruber's adjutant, who placed armed guards loyal to the Gauleiter at the entrance. The bombs were then wired for detonation by a demolition team.\n\nEigruber fled with an elite SS bodyguard, fully expecting his order of destruction to be carried out. Nevertheless, this did not happen. Instead, between 1 and 7 May 1945, before the arrival of U.S. Army troops on 8 May, the eight 500-kilogram bombs were removed from the mine, and the tunnels near the mine entrance were blown up, blocking the mine and protecting it from intrusion without doing damage to the irreplaceable and priceless art collection inside.\n\nWho, exactly, was responsible for saving the artwork took many years to determine, and was finally unravelled in the 1980s by Austrian historian Ernst Kubin. The plan was devised by Dr. Emmerich Pöchmüller, the general director of the mine, Eberhard Mayerhoffer, the technical director, and Otto Högler, the mine's foreman. It was sanctioned by Ernst Kaltenbrunner, an SS officer of high rank in the Gestapo who had grown up in the area, and was later convicted of mass-murder and hanged. The plan was carried out by the miners, with the tacit approval of Eigruber's guards, several of whom had been persuaded by Karl Sieber, an art restorer who had worked on paintings stored in the mine, that destroying the artwork and the mine was not a good idea. The entire operation took three weeks to implement. On 5 May the signal was given, and six tons of explosives with 386 detonators and 502 timing switches were activated, causing 66 blasts which closed off 137 tunnels. The blockages took about a month to clear away totally, although a hole big enough for a man to sidle through was completed by the miners overnight after the Americans arrived.\n\nDue to geo-political considerations, U.S. forces were ordered to pull back from the territory which included Altaussee, as it had been determined that it would be part of the Russian zone of occupation. Because of this, the paintings and artworks in the mine were removed and transferred elsewhere in about two weeks, rather than the year which had originally been planned.\n\nMost of the approximately 12,000 pieces of art in the mine were recovered. The Altaussee trove included both works meant specifically for the \"Führermuseum\" and other looted artwork as well. Other caches of art not intended for Linz were recovered in places throughout the Reich; there were over 1000 repositories in southern Germany alone. although some of the artworks in them came from the collections of German museums – these were eventually returned. Much of Göring's collection from his estate at Carinhall was discovered in a cave at Berchtesgaden, where he had a summer home near Hitler's Berghof retreat, part of it was also left in his private train, which was found in Unterstein, and had been looted by the local residents.\n\nPart of the collection designated for the Linz museum was stored in the air raid shelters of the Führer Building in Munich, part of the Nazi complex there. The building was broken into by a mob before American troops arrived in the city, and most of the 723 paintings still there were looted, with others were taken by American soldiers. Only 148 paintings were eventually recovered.\n\nAfter the war, the American Art Looting Investigation Unit (ALIU) of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) made thirteen detailed reports on the Linz museum and the Nazi plundering of art. These reports were synthesised into four consolidated reports; the fourth of these was written by S. Lane Faison covering the \"Führermuseum\". These reports focused on returning art to rightful owners. The authority for this was the 1943 Declaration of London, which invalidated all German art purchases in the occupied territories.\n\nMost of the paintings and other artworks were brought to the \"Central Collecting Point\" in Munich, a former Nazi Party administrative building, where they were registered and rephotographed if necessary. Restitutions occurred as early as autumn 1945. The work was turned over to German authorities in September 1949. In 1962, the responsible agency was disbanded, and the remaining unreturnable artworks were assessed for their value as museum items. These were loaned to various museums, while other pieces are on loan to government agencies.\n\nJacques Jaujard, the French Director of National Museums, was hailed as a national hero following the war for his part in saving the French national art collection. He was made a Commander of the Legion of Honor and given the Medal of Resistance. Rose Valland, who surreptitiously collected information on the looted artwork that passed through the \"Jeu de Paume\" museum, became a fine arts officer with the French First Army and assisted the MFAA in the collection of looted artwork. She was inducted into the French Legion of Honor and also received the Medal of Resistance, was awarded the Medal of Freedom from the U.S. and the Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit from West Germany. In 1953, she finally received the coveted title of \"curator\". Count Franz von Wolff-Metternich, the \"good German\" arts officer who helped to protect the French national art collection from Nazi predation worked with the Allies after the war, return artworks to their rightful owners, then joined the West German Foreign Office, where he tracked looted art.\n\nUnfortunately, the men of the Altaussee salt mine who were responsible for saving the artwork stored there by preventing the mine from being blown up did not fare well in the postwar period. All members of the Nazi Party, as were most professionals at that time in order to be allowed to work, they were all affected to one degree or another by the post-war denazification efforts. None of them received during their lifetimes the credit that was due to them for their acts in saving a significant portion of the art which had been looted by the Nazis from the Occupied Territories.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, Soviet premier Joseph Stalin tasked Mikhail Khrapchenko with taking many of the \"Führermuseum\" artworks to stock Soviet art galleries. Khrapchenko said \"it would now be possible to turn Moscow’s Pushkin Museum into one of the world’s great museums, like the British Museum, the Louvre, or the Hermitage.\" Stockpiled artwork was recovered by the Soviet \"Trophy Brigades\" from the two enormous flaktowers which had been built in Berlin to shelter people and supplies; many of the paintings in the Friedrichshain Flaktower were destroyed by fires.\n\nIn 1998, the Federal Republic of Germany and 43 other countries agreed to the \"Washington Principles\", which required them to closely inspect their art inventories to establish the provenance of works which had changed ownership between 1933 and 1945. In particular, German, France, Austria and the Netherlands and other countries publicly disclosed what artworks from the \"Sonderauftrag Linz\" collection remained in their inventories. The work began in Germany in 2000, and artworks which are \"shown by renewed research to involve a persecution-related deprivation of property during the National Socialist period are to be returned.\" In his book \"Das Braune Haus der Kunst: Hitler und der \"Sonderauftrag Linz\"\" (\"The Brown House of Art and the 'Sonderauftrag Linz'\"), published in Germany in 2005, Hans Christian Löhr argued that 191 artworks were missing at that time, and that they may be hanging in museums or private collections. This is discussed in the film documentary \"The Rape of Europa\" and in Noah Charney's book \"The Ghent Altarpiece, Stealing the Mystic Lamb\".\n\nAs of 2010, a photo album that an American soldier took from the Berghof, Hitler's vacation home, which catalogued artwork Hitler desired for the museum, was to be returned to Germany. Of the photo albums created for Hitler, 39 of them were discovered by American armed forces at Neuschwanstein, where they had been deposited for safekeeping in April 1945. These were used as evidence in the Nuremberg trials, and are now at the United States National Archives, with two others donated by Robert Edsel in 2007 and c.2013. Edsel is the author of the book \"The Monuments Men\" about the activities of the Allied Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program (MFAA), on which the film of the same name was loosely based, and also the founder of the Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art. He got the two albums from the heirs of an American soldier. Nineteen other albums recovered from Berchtesgaden were in Germany on permanent loan from the German Federal Archives (\"Bundesarchiv\") to the German Historical Museum as of 2010, and 11 albums are considered to be lost.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "29208082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29208082", "title": "Gerard Evans", "text": "Gerard Evans\n\nGerard Evans (1955-1979) was one of the \"Disappeared\" of the paramilitary war in Ulster. Having gone missing in March 1979, his body was discovered 31 years later in October 2010.\n\nGerard Evans, known as \"Gerry\", was a 24 year old painter and decorator from Crossmaglen, County Armagh, in Northern Ireland.\n\nEvans was kidnapped by the Provisional Irish Republican Army in March 1979 whilst hitch-hiking in the Castleblaney neighbourhood in County Monaghan, Republic of Ireland. After an interrogation by a kangaroo court involving a party of twelve local PIRA members on the accusation of being an intelligence agent for the British Government in the Armagh/Monaghan district, Evans was taken at night into the County Louth landscape, where, after pleading for mercy from his kidnappers, and being permitted to make a last prayer, he was shot in the back of the head. His body was afterwards illicitly buried in an unmarked grave in a peat bog at Carrickrobbin, near Hackballcross in County Louth, five miles from his home in Crossmaglen, the decision having been taken by the Provisional IRA to deny involvement with his disappearance and conceal the evidence of his murder to avoid alienating the community of the village of Crossmaglen, where the Welsh surname of Evans was common.\n\nIn October 2010 the \"Sunday Tribune\" journalist Suzanne Breen published a story that she had received information about the location of Evans' body from an ex-member of the Provisional IRA's \"South Armagh Brigade\", the source also giving the details of Evans' kidnap and murder. After an extensive search of the vicinity indicated the Garda Siochana located Evans' body on 15 October 2010. The source stated that their decision in coming forward with the information was influenced by the 2007 murder of Paul Quinn.\n\nA funeral took place for Evans' body at St. Patrick's Church in Crossmaglen on 4 December 2010, with it being buried in the church's graveyard.\n\n"}
{"id": "39269199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39269199", "title": "Heterolysis (biology)", "text": "Heterolysis (biology)\n\nIn biology, heterolysis refers to apoptosis induced by hydrolytic enzymes from surrounding (usually inflammatory) cells. Autolysis is apoptosis of a cell by its own enzymes.\n"}
{"id": "7188879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7188879", "title": "Immortal DNA strand hypothesis", "text": "Immortal DNA strand hypothesis\n\nThe immortal DNA strand hypothesis was proposed in 1975 by John Cairns as a mechanism for adult stem cells to minimize mutations in their genomes. This hypothesis proposes that instead of segregating their DNA during mitosis in a random manner, adult stem cells divide their DNA asymmetrically, and retain a distinct template set of DNA strands (parental strands) in each division. By retaining the same set of template DNA strands, adult stem cells would pass mutations arising from errors in DNA replication on to non-stem cell daughters that soon terminally differentiate (end mitotic divisions and become a functional cell). Passing on these replication errors would allow adult stem cells to reduce their rate of accumulation of mutations that could lead to serious genetic disorders such as cancer.\n\nAlthough evidence for this mechanism exists, whether it is a mechanism acting in adult stem cells in vivo is still controversial.\n\nTwo main assays are used to detect immortal DNA strand segregation: label-retention and label-release pulse/chase assays.\n\nIn the label-retention assay, the goal is to mark 'immortal' or parental DNA strands with a DNA label such as tritiated thymidine or bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). These types of DNA labels will incorporate into the newly synthesized DNA of dividing cells during S phase. A pulse of DNA label is given to adult stem cells under conditions where they have not yet delineated an immortal DNA strand. During these conditions, the adult stem cells are either dividing \"symmetrically\" (thus with each division a new 'immortal' strand is determined and in at least one of the stem cells the immortal DNA strand will be marked with DNA label), or the adult stem cells have \"not yet been determined\" (thus their precursors are dividing symmetrically, and once they differentiate into adult stem cells and choose an 'immortal' strand, the 'immortal strand' will already have been marked). Experimentally, adult stem cells are undergoing symmetric divisions during growth and after wound healing, and are not yet determined at neonatal stages. Once the immortal DNA strand is labelled and the adult stem cell has begun or resumed asymmetric divisions, the DNA label is chased out. In symmetric divisions (most mitotic cells), DNA is segregating randomly and the DNA label will be diluted out to levels below detection after five divisions. If, however, cells are using an immortal DNA strand mechanism, then all the labeled DNA will continue to co-segregate with the adult stem cell, and after five (or more) divisions will still be detected within the adult stem cell. These cells are sometimes called label-retaining cells (LRCs).\n\nIn the label-release assay, the goal is to mark the newly synthesized DNA that is normally passed on to the daughter (non-stem) cell. A pulse of DNA label is given to adult stem cells under conditions where they are dividing \"asymmetrically.\" Under conditions of homeostasis, adult stem cells should be dividing asymmetrically so that the same number of adult stem cells is maintained in the tissue compartment. After pulsing for long enough to label all the newly replicated DNA, the DNA label is chased out (each DNA replication now incorporates unlabeled nucleotides) and the adult stem cells are assayed for loss of the DNA label after two cell divisions. If cells are using a random segregation mechanism, then enough DNA label should remain in the cell to be detected. If, however, the adult stem cells are using an immortal DNA strand mechanism, they are obligated to retain the unlabeled 'immortal' DNA, and will release all the newly synthesized labeled DNA to their differentiating daughter cells in two divisions.\n\nSome scientists have combined the two approaches, by first using one DNA label to label the immortal strands, allowing to adult stem cells to begin dividing asymmetrically, and then using a different DNA label to label the newly synthesized DNA. Thus, the adult stem cells will retain one DNA label and release the other within two divisions.\n\nEvidence for the immortal DNA strand hypothesis has been found in various systems. One of the earliest studies by Karl Lark \"et al.\" demonstrated co-segregation of DNA in the cells of plant root tips. Plant root tips labeled with tritiated thymidine tended to segregate their labeled DNA to the same daughter cell. Though not all the labeled DNA segregated to the same daughter, the amount of thymidine-labeled DNA seen in the daughter with less label corresponded to the amount that would have arisen from sister-chromatid exchange. Later studies by Christopher Potten \"et al.\" (2002), using pulse/chase experiments with tritiated thymidine, found long-term label-retaining cells in the small intestinal crypts of neonatal mice. These researchers hypothesized that long-term incorporation of tritiated thymidine occurred because neonatal mice have undeveloped small intestines, and that pulsing tritiated thymidine soon after the birth of the mice allowed the 'immortal' DNA of adult stem cells to be labeled during their formation. These long-term cells were demonstrated to be actively cycling, as demonstrated by incorporation and release of BrdU.\n\nSince these cells were cycling but continued to contain the BrdU label in their DNA, the researchers reasoned that they must be segregating their DNA using an immortal DNA strand mechanism. Joshua Merok \"et al.\" from the lab of James Sherley engineered mammalian cells with an inducible p53 gene that controls asymmetric divisions. BrdU pulse/chase experiments with these cells demonstrated that chromosomes segregated non-randomly only when the cells were induced to divide asymmetrically like adult stem cells. These asymmetrically dividing cells provide an \"in vitro\" model for demonstration and investigation of immortal strand mechanisms. \n\nScientists have strived to demonstrate that this immortal DNA strand mechanism exists \"in vivo\" in other types of adult stem cells. In 1996 Nik Zeps published the first paper demonstrating label retaining cells were present in the mouse mammary gland and this was confirmed in 2005 by Gilbert Smith who also published evidence that a subset of mouse mammary epithelial cells could retain DNA label and release DNA label in a manner consistent with the immortal DNA strand mechanism. Soon after, scientists from the laboratory of Derek van der Kooy showed that mice have neural stem cells that are BrdU-retaining and continue to be mitotically active. Asymmetric segregation of DNA was shown using real-time imaging of cells in culture. In 2006, scientists in the lab of Shahragim Tajbakhsh presented evidence that muscle satellite cells, which are proposed to be adult stem cells of the skeletal muscle compartment, exhibited asymmetric segregation of BrdU-labelled DNA when put into culture. They also had evidence that demonstrated BrdU release kinetics consistent with an immortal DNA strand mechanism were operating \"in vivo\", using juvenile mice and mice with muscle regeneration induced by freezing.\n\nThese experiments supporting the immortal strand hypothesis, however, are not conclusive. While the Lark experiments demonstrated co-segregation, the co-segregation may have been an artifact of radiation from the tritium. Although Potten identified the cycling, label-retaining cells as adult stem cells, these cells are difficult to identify unequivocally as adult stem cells. While the engineered cells provide an elegant model for co-segregation of chromosomes, studies with these cells were done \"in vitro\" with engineered cells. Some features may not be present \"in vivo\" or may be absent \"in vitro\". In May 2007 evidence in support of the Immortal DNA Strand theory was discovered by Michael Conboy et al., using the muscle stem/satellite cell model during tissue regeneration, where there is tremendous cell division during a relatively brief period of time. Using two BrdU analogs to label template and newly synthesized DNA strands, they saw that about half of the dividing cells in regenerating muscle sort the older \"Immortal\" DNA to one daughter cell and the younger DNA to the other. In keeping with the stem cell hypothesis, the more undifferentiated daughter typically inherited the chromatids with the older DNA, while the more differentiated daughter inherited the younger DNA.\n\nExperimental evidence against the immortal strand hypothesis is sparse. In one study, researchers incorporated tritiated thymidine into dividing murine epidermal basal cells. They followed the release of tritiated thymidine after various chase periods, but the pattern of release was not consistent with the immortal strand hypothesis. Although they found label-retaining cells, they were not within the putative stem cell compartment. With increasing lengths of time for the chase periods, these label-retaining cells were located farther from the putative stem cell compartment, suggesting that the label-retaining cells had moved. However, finding conclusive evidence against the immortal strand hypothesis has proven difficult.\n\nAfter Cairns first proposed the immortal DNA strand mechanism, the theory has undergone several refinements.\n\nIn 2002, he proposed that in addition to using immortal DNA strand mechanisms to segregate DNA, when the immortal DNA strands of adult stem cells undergo damage, they will choose to die (apoptose) rather than use DNA repair mechanisms that are normally used in non-stem cells. \nEmmanuel David Tannenbaum and James Sherley developed a quantitative model describing how repair of point mutations might differ in adult stem cells. They found that in adult stem cells, repair was most efficient if they used an immortal DNA strand mechanism for segregating DNA, rather than a random segregation mechanism. This method would be beneficial because it avoids wrongly fixing DNA mutations in both DNA strands and propagating the mutation.\n\nThe complete proof of a concept generally requires a plausible mechanism that could mediate the effect. Although controversial, there is a suggestion that this could be provided by the Dynein Motor. This paper is accompanied by a comment summarizing the findings and background.\n\nHowever, this work has highly respected biologists among its detractors as exemplified by a further comment on a paper by the same authors from 2006. The authors have rebutted the criticism.\n"}
{"id": "58221871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58221871", "title": "International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism", "text": "International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism\n\nThe International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism was established by the United Nations General Assembly in 2017. It designated 21 August as the International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism in order to honor the victims and survivors of terrorism. In 2017 alone, nearly three-quarters of all deaths caused by terrorism were in just five countries: Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia and Syria. According to a statement by the UN, the day is meant to allow victims of terrorism to have their needs supported and their rights upheld.\n"}
{"id": "28332623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332623", "title": "Joanna Mary Boyce", "text": "Joanna Mary Boyce\n\nJoanna Mary Boyce (7 December 1831 – 15 July 1861), also known by her married name as Mrs. H.T. Wells, or as Joanna Mary Wells, was an English painter of portraits, genre pictures, and occasionally landscapes. She was the sister of Pre-Raphaelite watercolourist George Price Boyce, and was herself associated with the Brotherhood.\n\nBoyce, born in Maida Hill, London was the daughter of George Boyce, a former wine-merchant who had found prosperity as a pawnbroker, and his wife Anne. At the age of eighteen she entered Cary's art academy, and afterwards worked under James Mathews Leigh, at his school in Newman Street, London. Her first exhibited work was a life-size head, which appeared at the Royal Academy in 1855. In the same year she went to Paris, where she joined the ladies' class in Thomas Couture's atelier.\n\nShe spent 1857 in Italy, and in December of that year married Henry Tanworth Wells, (later a Royal Academician) in Rome. Before returning to England, she painted the greater part of \"The Boys' Crusade\", exhibited at the Academy in 1859. Subsequent exhibited works were: \"The Outcasts\", \"The Heather-Gatherers\", \"Do I like Butter?\", \"La Veneziana\", \"Peep-Bo!\", and \"A Bird of God\". This last painting was left complete on her easel at the time of her death.\n\nBoyce died from complications following the birth of her third child, Joanna Margaret, on 15 July 1861. After her death, Dante Gabriel Rossetti described her as \"a wonderfully gifted woman\"; another obituarist called her a genius.\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "357013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357013", "title": "John Forrest", "text": "John Forrest\n\nJohn Forrest, 1st Baron Forrest of Bunbury (22 August 18472 September 1918) was an Australian explorer, the first Premier of Western Australia and a cabinet minister in Australia's first federal parliament.\n\nAs a young man, he won fame as an explorer by leading three expeditions into the interior of Western Australia, for which he was awarded the 1876 Royal Geographical Society's Patron's Medal.\n\nHe was appointed Surveyor General and in 1890 became the first Premier of Western Australia, its only premier as a self-governing colony. Forrest's premiership gave the state ten years of stable administration during a period of rapid development and demographic change. He pursued a policy of large-scale public works and extensive land settlement, and he helped to ensure that Western Australia joined the federation of Australian states. After federation, he moved to federal politics, where he was at various times postmaster-general, Minister for Defence, Minister for Home Affairs, Treasurer and acting Prime Minister. He was affiliated with the Protectionist Party from 1901 to 1906, the Western Australian Party from 1906 to 1909, the Commonwealth Liberal Party from 1909 to 1917, then the Nationalist Party of Australia from 1917 to 1918.\n\nShortly before his death, Forrest was informed that the King had approved his elevation to the British peerage as Baron Forrest of Bunbury.\n\nForrest was one of 10 children of William and Margaret Forrest, who came out as servants under Dr John Ferguson in 1842. He was born at Preston point near Bunbury in what was then the British colony of Western Australia. He was also known as Jack to his family. Among his seven brothers were Alexander Forrest and David Forrest. He attended the government school in Bunbury under John Hislop until the age of 12, when he was sent north to Perth to attend the Bishop's Collegiate School, now Hale School, starting there in January 1860.\n\nIn November 1863, he was apprenticed to a government land surveyor named Thomas Carey. When his term of apprenticeship ended in November 1865, he became the first man born and educated in the colony to qualify as a land surveyor. He then commenced work as a surveyor with the government's Lands and Surveys Department.\n\nOn 2 September 1876 in Perth, Forrest married Margaret Elvire Hamersley. The Hamersleys were a very wealthy family, and Forrest gained substantially in wealth and social standing from the marriage. However, to their disappointment the marriage was childless.\n\nBetween 1869 and 1874, Forrest led three expeditions into the uncharted land surrounding the colony of Western Australia. In 1869, he led a fruitless search for the explorer Ludwig Leichhardt in the desert west of the site of the present town of Leonora. The following year, he surveyed Edward John Eyre's land route, from Perth to Adelaide. In 1874, he led a party to the watershed of the Murchison River and then east through the unknown desert centre of Western Australia. Forrest published an account of his expeditions, \"Explorations in Australia\", in 1875. In 1882, he was made a Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) by Queen Victoria for his services in exploring the interior.\n\nIn March 1869, Forrest was asked to lead an expedition in search of Leichhardt, who had been missing since April 1848. A few years earlier, a party of Aborigines had told the explorer Charles Hunt that a group of white men had been killed by Aborigines a long time ago, and some time afterwards, an Aboriginal tracker named Jemmy Mungaro had corroborated their story and claimed to have personally been to the location. Since it was thought that these stories might refer to Leichhardt's party, Forrest was asked to lead a party to the site, with Mungaro as their guide and there to search for evidence of Leichhardt's fate.\n\nForrest assembled a party of six, including the Aboriginal trackers Mungaro and Tommy Windich, and they left Perth on 15 April 1869. They headed in a north-easterly direction, passing through the colony's furthermost sheep station on 26 April. On 6 May, they encountered a group of Aborigines who offered to guide the party to a place where there were many skeletons of horses. Forrest's team accompanied this group in a more northerly direction, but after a week of travelling it became clear that their destination was Poison Rock, where the explorer Robert Austin was known to have left eleven of his horses for dead in 1854. They then turned once more towards the location indicated by their guide.\n\nThe team arrived in the location to be searched on 28 May. They then spent almost three weeks surveying and searching an area of about 15,000 km² in the desert west of the site of the present-day town of Leonora. Having found no evidence of Leichhardt's fate, and Mungaro having changed his story and admitted that he had not personally visited the site, they decided to push as far eastwards as they could on their remaining supplies. The expedition reached its furthest point east on 2 July, near the present-day site of the town of Laverton. They then turned for home, returning by a more northerly route and arriving back in Perth on 6 August.\n\nThey had been absent for 113 days, and had travelled, by Forrest's reckoning, over , most of it through uncharted desert. They had found no sign of Leichhardt, and the country over which they travelled was useless for farming. However, Forrest did report that his compass had been affected by the presence of minerals in the ground, and he suggested that the government send geologists to examine the area. Ultimately, the expedition achieved very little, but it was of great personal advantage to Forrest whose reputation with his superiors and in the community at large was greatly enhanced.\n\nLater that year, Forrest was selected to lead an expedition that would survey a land route along the Great Australian Bight between the colonies of South Australia and Western Australia. Eyre had achieved such a crossing 30 years earlier, but his expedition had been poorly planned and equipped, and Eyre had nearly perished from lack of water. Forrest's expedition would follow Eyre's route, but it would be thoroughly planned and properly resourced. Also, the recent discovery of safe anchorages at Israelite Bay and Eucla would permit Forrest's team to be reprovisioned along the way by a chartered schooner \"Adur\". Forrest's brief was to provide a proper survey of the route, which might be used in future to establish a telegraph link between the colonies and also to assess the suitability of the land for pasture.\n\nForrest's team consisted of six men his brother Alexander was second in charge, Police constable Hector Neil McLarty, farrier William Osborn, trackers Windich and Billy Noongale 16 horses and a number of dogs. The party left Perth on 30 March 1870, and arrived at Esperance on 24 April. Heavy rain fell for much of this time.\n\nAfter resting and reprovisioning, the party left Esperance on 9 May and arrived at Israelite Bay nine days later. They had encountered very little feed for their horses and no permanent water, but they managed to obtain sufficient rain water from rock water-holes. After reprovisioning, the team left for Eucla on 30 May. Again, they encountered very little feed and no permanent water, and this time the water they obtained from rock water-holes was not sufficient. They were compelled to dash more than to a spot that Eyre had found water in 1841. Having secured a water source, they rested and explored the area before moving on, eventually reaching Eucla on 2 July. At Eucla, they rested and reprovisioned and explored inland, where they found good pasture land. On 14 July, the team started the final leg of their expedition through unsettled country: from Eucla to the nearest South Australian station. During the last leg, almost no water could be found, and the team were compelled to travel day and night for nearly five days. They saw their first signs of civilisation on 18 July and eventually reached Adelaide on 27 August.\n\nA week later, they boarded ship for Western Australia, arriving in Perth on 27 September. They were honoured at two receptions: one by the Perth City Council and a citizens' banquet at the Horse and Groom Tavern. Speaking at the receptions, Forrest was modest about his own contributions but praisef the efforts of the members of the expedition and divided a government gratuity between them.\n\nForrest's bight crossing was one of the most organised and best managed expeditions of his time. As a result, his party successfully completed in five months a journey that had taken Eyre twelve and arrived in good health and without the loss of a single horse. From that point of view, the expedition must be considered a success.\n\nHowever, the tangible results were not great. They had not travelled far from Eyre's track, and although a large area was surveyed, only one small area of land suitable for pasture was found. A second expedition by the same team returned to the area between August and November 1871 and found further good pastures, north-north-east of Esperance.\n\nIn August 1872, Forrest was invited to lead a third expedition, from Geraldton to the source of the Murchison River and then east through the uncharted centre of Western Australia to the overland telegraph line from Darwin to Adelaide. The purpose was to discover the nature of the unknown centre of Western Australia, and to find new pastoral land.\n\nForrest's team again consisted of six men, including his brother Alexander and Windich. They also had 20 horses and food for eight months. The team left Geraldton on 1 April 1874, and a fortnight later, it passed through the colony's outermost station. On 3 May the team passed into unknown land. It found plenty of good pastoral land around the headwaters of the Murchison River, but by late May, it was travelling over arid land. On 2 June, while dangerously short of water, it discovered Weld Springs, \"one of the best springs in the colony\" according to Forrest. At Weld Springs on 13 June, the party was attacked by a large group of Aborigines, and Forrest shot a number of them.\n\nBeyond Weld Springs water, was extremely hard to obtain, and by 4 July the team relied on occasional thunderstorms for water. By 2 August, the team was critically short of water; a number of horses had been abandoned, and Forrest's journal indicates that the team had little confidence of survival. A few days later, it was rescued by a shower of rain. On 23 August, it was again critically short of water and half of their horses were near death, when they were saved by the discovery of Elder Springs.\n\nThen, the land became somewhat less arid, and the risk of dying from thirst started to abate. Other difficulties continued, however: the team had to abandon more of their horses, and one member of the team suffered from scurvy and could barely walk. The team finally sighted the telegraph line near Mount Alexander on 27 September and reached Peake Telegraph Station three days later. The remainder of the journey was a succession of triumphant public receptions by passing through each country town en route to Adelaide. The team reached Adelaide on 3 November 1874, more than six months after they started from Geraldton.\n\nFrom an exploration point of view, Forrest's third expedition was of great importance. A large area of previously unknown land was explored, and the popular notion of an inland sea was shown to be unlikely. However, the practical results were not great. Plenty of good pastoral land was found up to the head of the Murchison, but beyond that, the land was useless for pastoral enterprise, and Forrest was convinced that it would never be settled. Forrest also made botanical collections during the expedition that were given to Ferdinand von Mueller, who, in turn, named \"Eremophila forrestii\" in his honour.\n\nIn 1875, Forrest published \"Explorations in Australia\", an account of his three expeditions. In July 1876, he was awarded the Founder's Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society of London. He was made a CMG by Queen Victoria in 1882 for his services in exploring the interior.\n\nHe was an outstanding surveyor, and his successful expeditions had made him a popular public figure as well. Consequently, he was promoted rapidly through the ranks of the Lands and Surveys Department, and in January 1883 he succeeded Malcolm Fraser in the positions of surveyor-general and commissioner of crown lands. This was one of the most powerful and responsible positions in the colony, and it accorded him a seat on the colony's Executive Council. At the same time, Forrest was nominated to the colony's Legislative Council. After Britain ceded to Western Australia the right to self-rule in 1890, Forrest was elected unopposed to the seat of Bunbury in the Legislative Assembly. On 22 December 1890, Governor William Robinson appointed Forrest the first Premier of Western Australia. In May of the following year, he was knighted KCMG for his services to the colony.\n\nThe Forrest Ministry immediately embarked on a programme of large-scale public works funded by loans raised in London. Public works were greatly in demand at the time, because of the British government's reluctance to approve public spending in the colony. Under the direction of the brilliant engineer C. Y. O'Connor, many thousands of miles of railway were laid, and many bridges, jetties, lighthouses and town halls were constructed. The two most ambitious projects were the Fremantle Harbour Works, one of the few public works of the 1890s which is still in use today; and the Goldfields Water Supply Scheme, one of the greatest engineering feats of its time, in which the Helena River was dammed and the water piped over to Kalgoorlie. Forrest's public works programme was generally well received, although on the Eastern Goldfields where the rate of population growth and geographical expansion far outstripped the government's ability to provide works, Forrest was criticised for not doing enough. He invited further criticism in 1893 with his infamous \"spoils to the victors\" speech, in which he appeared to assert that members who opposed the government were putting at risk their constituents' access to their fair share of public works.\n\nForrest's government also implemented a number of social reforms, including measures to improve the status of women, young girls and wage-earners. However, although Forrest did not always oppose proposals for social reform, he never instigated or championed them. Critics have therefore argued that Forrest deserves little credit for the social reforms achieved under his premiership. On political reform, however, Forrest's influence was unquestionable. In 1893, Forrest guided through parliament a number of significant amendments to the Constitution of Western Australia, including an extension of the franchise to all men regardless of property ownership. He also had a significant role in repealing section 70 of that constitution, which had provided that 1% of public revenue should be paid to a Board (not under local political control) for the welfare of Indigenous people, and was \"widely hated\" by the colonists.\n\nThe major political question of the time, though, was federation. Forrest was in favour of federation, and felt that it was inevitable, but he also felt that Western Australia should not join until it obtained fair terms. He was heavily involved in the framing of the Australian Constitution, representing Western Australia at a number of meetings on federation, including the National Australasian Conventions in Sydney in 1891 and in Adelaide in 1897, and the Australasian Federal Conventions in Sydney in 1897 and in Melbourne in 1898. He fought hard to protect the rights of the less populous states, arguing for a strong upper house organised along state lines. He also argued for a number of concessions to Western Australia, and for the building of a trans-Australian railway. Although he was largely unsuccessful in his endeavours, by 1900 he was convinced that better terms were not to be obtained, so called the referendum in which Western Australians voted to join the federation, and Western Australia became a part of Australia in 1901.\n\nOn 30 December 1900, Forrest accepted the position of Postmaster-General in Edmund Barton's federal caretaker government. Two days later, he received news that he had been made a GCMG \"in recognition of services in connection with the Federation of Australian Colonies and the establishment of the Commonwealth of Australia\". Forrest was postmaster-general for only 17 days: he resigned to take up the defence portfolio, which had been made vacant by the death of Sir James Robert Dickson. On 13 February 1901, he resigned as premier of Western Australia and as member for Bunbury.\n\nIn the March 1901 federal election, the first one ever, Forrest as elected, unopposed, on a moderate Protectionist platform to the federal House of Representatives seat of Swan. He held the defence portfolio for over two years. After a cabinet reshuffle on 7 August 1903, he became Minister for Home Affairs.\n\nThe December 1903 federal election greatly weakened the governing party. Shortly afterwards, it was defeated and replaced by a Labour government under Chris Watson. Forrest moved to the crossbenches, where he was a scathing critic of the Labour government's policies and legislation. After George Reid's Free Trade Party took office in August 1904, he remained on the crossbenches but largely supported the government.\n\nIn June 1905, Alfred Deakin's Protectionist Party formed an alliance with Labour to end Reid's government. They formed a new government on 7 July, with Forrest appointed Treasurer, as fifth in seniority. After a ministerial reshuffle in October 1906, Forrest became third in cabinet precedence. Five months later, Deakin and his deputy, William Lyne, travelled to London to attend conferences, and Forrest was appointed acting Prime Minister, from 18 March to 27 June 1907.\n\nThe alliance with Labour had put Forrest in a difficult position, as he had repeatedly opposed it. Before the December 1906 federal election, he continued to attack the Labour Party despite sharing government with it and depending on its support. In the following months, Forrest was himself heavily criticised in the press for his willingness to work with the Labour Party when Cabinet was in session and for his attacks on the party during election campaigns.\n\nHe began to feel that his reputation in Western Australia and his personal standing in cabinet were being undermined. In response, he resigned as treasurer on 30 July 1907 and joined the crossbenches, where he was a mild critic of the government.\n\nA few months later, Labour withdrew its support for Deakin's government, forcing it to resign. Labour then formed government under Andrew Fisher. In the following months, Forrest and a number of other members worked to arrange a fusion of the Free Trade and Protectionist parties into a single party. Eventually, the Commonwealth Liberal Party was formed, with Deakin as leader. Fisher was then forced to resign, and the new Liberal Party took office on 2 June 1909, with Forrest as treasurer. Labour reclaimed office at the April 1910 federal election.\n\nEarly in 1913, Deakin resigned as Leader of the Opposition. Forrest and Joseph Cook contested the leadership, with Cook winning by a single vote. Forrest was very disappointed, especially since Deakin, whom he considered a friend, had voted against him. Five months later, in the May 1913 federal election, the Liberal Party returned to power, with Cook as Prime Minister. Forrest was appointed treasurer for the third time. However, the government's majority of just one seat in the House of Representatives, along with Labor's large majority in the Senate, made it difficult to get anything done. In June 1914, Cook asked the Governor-General for a double dissolution, and Australia was sent back to the polls. Forrest retained his seat, but the Liberal Party was soundly defeated and Forrest was again relegated to the crossbenches.\n\nIn December 1916, a split in the Labor Party over conscription left Prime Minister Billy Hughes with a minority government. Hughes and his colleagues formed the National Labor Party, and the Liberal Party joined with it in the formation of a new government. For the fourth time, Forrest was appointed treasurer. The National Labor and Liberal parties easily won a combined majority at the May 1917 election, and the two parties soon merged to form the Nationalist Party of Australia.\n\nOn 20 December, a referendum on conscription was defeated, and Hughes kept his promise to resign as prime minister if the referendum was lost. Forrest immediately declared himself a candidate for the position, but the Governor-General found that Forrest did not have the numbers and so asked Hughes to form government again. Hughes accepted, and the previous government was again sworn in.\n\nOn 6 February 1918, Forrest was informed that he was to be raised to the British peerage as \"Baron Forrest of Bunbury in the Commonwealth of Australia and of Forrest in Fife in the United Kingdom\". Despite the announcement, however, no letters patent were issued before his death, so there in uncertainty whether or not his peerage was officially created.\n\nForrest had been suffering from a cancer on his temple since early in 1917, and by 1918, he was very ill. He resigned as treasurer on 21 March 1918, and shortly afterwards boarded ship for London, where he hoped to obtain specialist medical attention. He also hoped to be able to take his seat in the House of Lords. However, on 2 September 1918, with his ship off the coast of Sierra Leone, he died. He was buried there, but his remains were later brought back to Western Australia and interred in Karrakatta Cemetery.\n\nHis seat was replaced by Edwin Corboy, of the Labor Party, in the Swan by-election, 1918. At 22, Corboy was the youngest member of the Parliament of Australia until 2010. The shock victory of a Labor Party candidate in a seat that Forrest had occupied since its creation was because of a split in the votes. To prevent the situation from recurring, the government changed the voting system to the preferential vote.\n\nHe was a tall, heavily built man; in his later years, he tended towards stoutness, and he had a mass of about when he died. He was fond of pomp and ceremony and insisted on being treated with respect at all times. Highly sensitive to criticism, he hated having his authority challenged and tended to browbeat his political opponents. He had very little sense of humour and was greatly offended when a journalist playfully referred to him as the \"Commissioner for Crown Sands\".\n\nHis upbringing and education were said by his biographer, F. K. Crowley, to have compounded in him \"social snobbery, laissez-faire capitalism, sentimental royalism, patriotic Anglicanism, benevolent imperialism and racial superiority.\" He was, however, a very popular figure who treated everyone he met with politeness and dignity. He was renowned for his memory for names and faces and for his prolific letter-writing.\n\nForrest's legacy can be found in the Western Australian landscape, with many places named by or after him:\n\nIn addition, the electoral Division of Forrest was created in 1922; the suburb of Forrest, Australian Capital Territory is named after Forrest, as one of the many suburbs of Canberra named after Australia's first federal politicians.\n\nThe Forrest Highway, opened in September 2009, was named after him. The Eyre Highway was first known as the Forrest Highway, when it was first established as an unsealed road in 1942.\n\nHe is one of many railroad builders featured as a possible computer-controlled competitor in the simulation game Railroad Tycoon 3.\n\nOn 28 November 1949, the Australian post office issued a commemorative stamp that featured Forrest.\n\nThe Lord Forrest Hotel opened in Bunbury in 1986 even though he was never correctly known by that name. It is still running today and proudly displays his pictures on the walls. It is the largest hotel in Bunbury.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55209042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55209042", "title": "Lai Ning", "text": "Lai Ning\n\nLai Ning (; 20 October 1973 – 13 March 1988) was a teenage schoolboy in China, who died while fighting a forest fire in Shimian County, Sichuan. Lai Ning's actions were deemed heroic by the Chinese government and Lai has been celebrated as a hero and martyr in contemporary China.\n\nLai Ning was a fourteen-year-old schoolboy living in Shimian County where he was regarded as a loner by his classmates, and, for reporting their infractions, a \"snitch.\" On March 13, 1988, a wildfire was threatening a nearby forest and schoolchildren were mobilized to help fight the fire. Lai voluntarily assisted the firefighting efforts for five hours. Lai was eventually overcome by the flames and killed in the fire.\n\nLai Ning was later declared a \"revolutionary martyr\" by the Chinese government for his role in combating the wildfire to protect his town. Over the next year, his story was used increasingly in Chinese propaganda as a model of courage and duty for Chinese youth. This was especially important in the aftermath of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests when the Chinese government hoped to gain support from Chinese teenagers and promote an alternative example of youth in China. Deng Yingchao declared that \"only by plunging into studies of Lai Ning can you become the sound new masters of your country in the 21st century\" in the \"People's Daily\".\n\nSince that time, Lai Ning has been commemorated with posters in school classrooms and statues in town squares. In the 1990s, Lai's story was taught in Chinese textbooks to teach students about the importance of protecting Chinese society. The propaganda surrounding Lai Ning was sometimes poorly received within China, and some teachers believed that the calls for emulation were outdated tactics from the Cultural Revolution era.\n\nA miniseries depicting Lai Ning's life was aired in the years following his death and a film was released in 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "5683838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5683838", "title": "Martin Adler", "text": "Martin Adler\n\nMartin John Lars Adler (30 October 1958 – 23 June 2006) was a Swedish cameraman and journalist for Aftonbladet. He was a veteran, award-winning reporter known for his war reports and foreign coverage.\n\nAdler was born in Stockholm, Sweden, to a Swedish father and a British mother. He grew up in Västerås and became a journalist after studying anthropology in London. Adler was killed in 2006 while on a reporting assignment in Somalia. Adler is survived by his wife and two daughters.\n\nAdler specialised in independent reporting from the world's most troubled countries, exposing poverty, human rights abuses and the fate of individuals in the midst of war and genocide. During his career, he worked in over two dozen war zones, including El Salvador, Rwanda, the Republic of Congo, Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Chechnya, Bosnia, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Kashmir, Burundi, Somalia, Sudan, Eritrea and Iraq.\n\nMartin Adler was killed on 23 June 2006 after being shot at close range by an unknown assailant during a crowded rally in the Somalian capital, Mogadishu that was being held in support of the peace agreement. The gunman then vanished into the crowd.\n\nIn 2001, he won the Amnesty International Media Award (news category) for his story on the kidnapping and sale of women in China. He was also awarded the Silver Prize for Investigative Journalism at the 2001 New York TV Festival. In 2004 he was named the Winner of the Rory Peck Award for Hard News for his work with \"On Patrol with Charlie Company\" in Iraq.\n\nIn 2007, the Rory Peck Trust inaugurated the Martin Adler Prize, which is awarded annually at the British Film Institute in recognition of Adler's \"great talents as a journalist, filmmaker and storyteller\". The purpose of the prize is to honour a freelance cameraperson, journalist, fixer, driver or translator for their role in reporting a significant news story, to \"raise awareness of the value of the recipient’s work\" and to \"help them to progress in their career\".\n\nList of journalists killed during the Somali civil war\n\n"}
{"id": "11914966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11914966", "title": "Max Schur", "text": "Max Schur\n\nMax Schur (26 September 1897 – 12 October 1969) was a physician and friend of Sigmund Freud. He assisted Freud in euthanasia. Ernest Jones considered that \"Schur was a perfect choice for a doctor...his considerateness, his untiring patience, and his resourcefulness were unsurpassable\".\n\nSchur was born in Stanisławów, Austrian Galicia (present-day Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine). He \"completed his high school education in Vienna after his family moved there in 1914 to escape the advancing Russian army. After attending medical school at the University of Vienna from 1915 to 1920, he had most of his postgraduate training at the Vienna Poliklinik. He remained there as an associate in internal medicine until he left Vienna in 1938.\"\n\nAfter attending Freud's \"Introductory Lectures\", Schur became interested in psychoanalysis, \"had a personal analysis with Ruth Mack Brunswick from 1924-32 and was accepted into the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society in 1932. It was this combination of psychoanalytic orientation and internal medicine that led to him becoming Freud's personal physician in 1929.\"\n\nSchur contributed knowledge to both fields - medicine and psychoanalysis - founded two psychosomatic clinics, and explored the connection between psyche and soma in many of his 37 papers as well as in his book, \"Freud Living and Dying\". Peter Gay considered the latter to be \"invaluable for its private revelations and judicious, well-informed judgements\".\n\nDuring the last decade of Freud's life, \"Max Schur established himself as a figure almost as central to Freud as his daughter Anna\". Schur followed Freud to London to escape the Nazi \"Anschluss\". At their initial meeting, Freud had asked Schur to '\"Promise me also: when the time comes, you won't let them torment me unnecessarily\"'. Ten years later, in 1939, as he approached death from cancer, Freud reminded him of his promise, and \"Schur pressed his hand and promised he would give him adequate sedation\".\n\n\"In a period when paternalism was common, Schur modelled, through his treatment of Freud, a modern doctor-patient relationship based on veracity and respect for individual autonomy\".\n\nSchur made \"considerable efforts to link the somatic and the psychological aspects of the affects\", ultimately producing \"a psychosomatic, compromise-formed view of the affects, in line with the trend in ego psychology\".\n\nSchur compared ethological and child developmental concepts, as can be seen in his critical discussion of John Bowlby's \"Grief and Mourning in Infancy\" (1960). Although rooted in Freud's thinking, Schur argued \"firmly for a structured id and ... felt that the idea of the repetition compulsion as a regulatory principle was superfluous\". Schur also took issue with Freud's \"Beyond the Pleasure Principle\". Peter Gay wrote that \"Schur, whom no one can accuse of reading Freud unsympathetically, said: 'We can assume only that Freud's conclusions...are an example of ad hoc reasoning to prove a preformed hypothesis ... so different from Freud's general scientific style'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "862696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862696", "title": "Mind over matter", "text": "Mind over matter\n\nMind over matter is a phrase that has been used in several contexts, such as mind-centric spiritual doctrines, parapsychology, and philosophy.\n\nThe phrase \"mind over matter\" first appeared in 1863 in \"The Geological Evidence of the Antiquity of Man\" by Sir Charles Lyell (1797–1875) and was first used to refer to the increasing status and evolutionary growth of the minds of animals and man throughout Earth history. \n\nAnother related saying, \"the mind drives the mass,\" was coined almost two millennia earlier in 19 B.C. by the poet Virgil in his work \"Aeneid\", book 6, line 727.\n\nIn the field of parapsychology, the phrase has been used to describe paranormal phenomena such as psychokinesis.\n\n\"Mind over matter\" was also Mao Zedong's idea that rural peasants could be \"proletarianized\" so they could lead the revolution and China could move from feudalism to socialism through New Democracy. According to some, it departs from Leninism in that the revolutionaries are peasants, instead of the urban proletariat. But others assert that this is a lazy analysis because Mao never disputed the fact that the proletariat should lead, he simply adapted Marxism to the conditions of China.\n\nThe phrase also relates to the ability to control the perception of pain that one may or may not be experiencing.\n"}
{"id": "39743243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39743243", "title": "Moderna Therapeutics", "text": "Moderna Therapeutics\n\nModerna Therapeutics is a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company that is focused on drug discovery and drug development based on messenger RNA (mRNA). The company creates synthetic mRNA that can be injected into patients to help them create their own therapies.\n\nModerna was founded in 2010 and the name was originally written \"ModeRNA\". It was based on basic science work by Derrick Rossi at Harvard, whose lab developed a method for modifying mRNA, transfecting into human cells, and dedifferentiating them into stem cells, and then causing them to differentiate into desired cell types. Rossi approached fellow Harvard faculty member Tim Springer who had started a company before, about starting a company and Kenneth R. Chien; they brought in Bob Langer and then all of them met with Noubar Afeyan, the CEO of Flagship Ventures. After some further validating experiments, the company was founded. Stéphane Bancel, left his job as CEO of bioMérieux to become CEO in 2011. It operated in stealth mode until December 2012, with a vague website and all employees working under strict confidentiality agreements; People thought Moderna was a stem cell company until it emerged from stealth mode in 2012, by which time it had raised $40 million from Flagship Ventures' VentureLabs unit and other private investors.\n\nIn March 2013, Moderna and AstraZeneca signed a five-year exclusive option agreement to discover, develop and commercialize mRNA therapeutics for the treatment of serious cardiovascular, metabolic and renal diseases as well as selected targets in oncology. The agreement included a $240 million upfront payment to Moderna, a payment that is \"one of the largest ever initial payments in a pharmaceutical industry licensing deal that does not involve a drug already being tested in clinical trials.\"\n\nIn October 2013, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) awarded Moderna a grant worth up to $24.6 million to research and develop its mRNA drug technology to fight infectious diseases and biological weapons.\n\nIn November 2013, Moderna secured an additional $110M in financing. In January 2014, Moderna and Alexion Pharmaceuticals entered a $125 million deal for orphan diseases. Alexion paid Moderna $100 million exchange for 10 product options to develop rare-disease drugs using Moderna’s mRNA Therapeutics platform, and also made another $25 million preferred equity investment in Moderna.\n\nIn October 2014, Moderna announced a research and clinical partnership with Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska University Hospital, and established Moderna Therapeutics Sweden in Stockholm as its first expansion outside the U.S.\n\nAt the beginning of January 2015, Moderna announced that it had raised $450 million in new funding and at this point had raised $950 million.\n\nOn January 8, 2015, Moderna launched Valera, a venture focused exclusively on the advancement of vaccines and therapeutics for the prevention and treatment of viral, bacterial and parasitic infectious diseases.\n\nAlso in January 2015, Moderna announced a license and collaboration agreement with Merck for the discovery and development of vaccines against viral diseases. Merck made an upfront cash payment to Moderna of $50 million to commercialize five product candidates, as well as a $50 million equity investment in Moderna.\n\nIn May 2015, Moderna launched Elpidera, a venture focused exclusively on developing messenger RNA (mRNA) based medicines for the treatment of rare diseases.\n\nOn October 22, 2015, Moderna launched its fourth venture, Caperna, focused on personalized cancer vaccines.\n\nIn January 2016, Moderna announced the start of a Phase 1 clinical study in Europe for mRNA 1440 and filed an IND with the U.S. FDA for mRNA 1851. mRNA 1440 and mRNA 1851 are infectious disease vaccines.\n\nIn January 2016, Moderna and AstraZeneca announced a new collaboration to develop two mRNA immuno-oncology programs. Moderna will fund and lead discovery and preclinical development. AstraZeneca will lead early clinical development. The companies will share late-stage development costs and co-commercialize products in US with 50:50 profit sharing.\n\nIn January 2016, Moderna announced a new agreement with Merck to license a vaccine program for an undisclosed virus – mRNA 1566 and a group of related new vaccine candidates.\n\nIn June 2016, Moderna entered into a new collaboration with Merck to develop mRNA-based personalized cancer vaccines to treat multiple types of cancer. Moderna received a $200 million upfront payment to lead R&D efforts through proof-of-concept and to build out of a manufacturing facility.\n\nIn July 2016, Moderna announced a collaboration with Vertex to discover and develop mRNA therapeutics for cystic fibrosis. Moderna received a $40M upfront payment including a $20M convertible note investment and may receive $275M in milestone payments.\n\nIn July 2016, Moderna and AstraZeneca announced the filing of a clinical trial application for investigational cardiometabolic mRNA drug AZD8601, which encodes for vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A).\n\nIn September 2016, Moderna announced a funding award from BARDA to develop a Zika mRNA vaccine. The award includes $8 million to support a Phase 1 study, and options for additional funding up to $117 million to support Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies, and large-scale manufacturing.\n\nIn September 2016, Moderna announced a $474 million equity financing from existing institutional investors and pharma partners, and new institutional investors from the U.S., Europe and Asia.\n\nIn September 2016, Moderna announced that it was going to start building a 200,000 sq ft GMP mRNA manufacturing facility in Norwood, Mass.\n\nBy 2017 the company was said to have a $5B valuation, which many analysts found to be an overvaluation.\n\nIn 2017 \"Science\" published an article describing Moderna's platform, which was the result of several months of discussions with Moderna employees. Moderna had made the strategic decision to disclose some of its approach in an effort to break the hype cycle into which it was getting locked. The \"Science\" piece disclosed that Moderna was delivering some of its mRNA therapeutic candidates in liposomes, that they were using modified uridine nucleosides based on work done by Katalin Karikó on avoiding immune responses to mRNA drugs, that the company was using mRNAs with modified sequences to improve folding and translation efficiency, and that their mRNA drug candidates were modified on each end, outside the coding region, to target them to specific cell types.\n\n"}
{"id": "46231435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46231435", "title": "Moji Olaiya", "text": "Moji Olaiya\n\nMoji Olaiya (27 February 1975 – 17 May 2017) was a Nigerian actress.\n\nThe daughter of highlife musician Victor Olaiya, Moji Olaiya began her acting career with Wale Adenuga's production \"Super Story\". She starred in several Nollywood movies of Yoruba and English genres. She was known for her roles in films such as \"No Pains No Gains\", in which she played Ireti, \"Sade Blade\" (2005), \"Nkan adun\" (2008) and \"Omo iya meta leyi\" (2009). She also starred in the \"Agunbaniro\". In 2003 she was nominated for the Reel Award Best Supporting Actress of the Year, and she won the Best New Actress Award.\n\nIn 2016, Olaiya released a film, \"Iya Okomi\", starring Foluke Daramola and Funsho Adeolu, which was scheduled to premiere in Lagos on July.\n\nOlaiya married Bayo Okesola in 2007, then separated. She converted to Islam in 2014.\n\nOlaiya died on May 17, 2017, from cardiac arrest in Canada, where she had her second child exactly two months prior. She was finally laid to rest on June 7, 2017 according to Islamic rites\n\n"}
{"id": "49781126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49781126", "title": "NhaA family", "text": "NhaA family\n\nNa/H antiporter A (NhaA) family (TC# 2.A.33) contains a number of bacterial sodium-proton antiporter (SPAP) proteins. These are integral membrane proteins that catalyse the exchange of H for Na in a manner that is highly pH dependent. Homologues have been sequenced from a number of bacteria and archaea. Prokaryotes possess multiple paralogues. A representative list of the proteins that belong to the NhaA family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nProteins of the NhaA family are of 300-700 amino acyl residues in length. NhaA of \"E. coli\" is a homeodimer, each subunit consisting of a bundle of 12 tilted transmembrane α-helices (TMSs).\n\nMolecular dynamics simulations of NhaA enabled proposal of an atomically detailed model of antiporter function. Three conserved aspartate residues are key to this proposed mechanism: Asp (D164) is the Na-binding site, D163 controls the alternating accessibility of this binding site to the cytoplasm or periplasm, and D133 is crucial for pH regulation.\n\nNa-H antiporters are integral membrane proteins that exchange Na for H across the cytoplasmic membrane and many intracellular membranes. They are essential for Na, pH, and volume homeostasis, which are processes crucial for cell viability. The \"E. coli\" protein probably functions in the regulation of the internal pH when the external pH is alkaline, and the protein effectively functions as a pH sensor. It also uses the H gradient to expel Na from the cell. Its activity is highly pH dependent.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by NhaA is:Na (in) + 2H (out) ⇌ Na (out) + 2H (in).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13021442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13021442", "title": "Niklot", "text": "Niklot\n\nNiklot or Nyklot (1090 – August 1160) was a pagan chief or prince of the Slavic Obotrites and an ancestor of the House of Mecklenburg. He became chief of the Obotrite confederacy, including the Kissini and the Circipani, between the years 1130 and 1131. He remained in this position until his death in 1160. At the same time he was Lord of (\"Herr zu\") Schwerin, Quetzin and Malchow. For nearly 30 years he resisted Saxon princes, especially Henry the Lion during the Wendish Crusade. He fought the conversion of the pagan Polabian Slavs to Christianity.\n\nAfter the death of Obodrite Prince Henry, a Christian, Niklot renounced Christianity in favor of traditional pagan beliefs.\n\nNiklot began his open resistance when the German King (later Emperor) Lothar III granted the Obotrite realm to his Danish vassal Canute Lavard. Together with Pribislaw, the son of Henry of Alt-Lübeck, Niklot fought Lothar and Canute. After the murder of Canute in 1131, Niklot and Pribislav partitioned the Obotrite territory, with Niklot receiving the eastern lands. In order to weaken Pribislav in the following years, Niklot allied with Saxon lords, especially Count Adolf II of Holstein, allowing Slavic pirates to attack the Danes.\n\nThe prince's Saxon allies turned against him during the 1147 Wendish Crusade. Although Niklot resisted the siege of his fortress at Dobin, he was forced to pay tribute to the Christian crusaders. He subsequently arranged peaceful terms with Adolf of Holstein, Duke Henry the Lion of Saxony and Henry of Ratzeburg.\n\nBy 1158, King Valdemar the Great of Denmark began to pay Henry the Lion for assistance, leading Niklot to retaliate. The Danish king and the Saxon duke then allied in 1160. While the Danes harried the coast and distracted the Rani, the Saxons killed Niklot at his stronghold of Burg Werle; the Obotrite territory was largely partitioned by the Christians. Niklot's death ended Slavic control in Mecklenburg up to the Peene River. His son Pribislav recovered his inheritance as Prince of Mecklenburg in 1167 as a Saxon vassal. His other son Wertislaw was the father of Nicholas I, Lord of Mecklenburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "22081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22081", "title": "Normative ethics", "text": "Normative ethics\n\nNormative ethics is the study of ethical action. It is the branch of philosophical ethics that investigates the set of questions that arise when considering how one ought to act, morally speaking. \n\nNormative ethics is distinct from meta-ethics because it examines standards for the rightness and wrongness of actions, while meta-ethics studies the meaning of moral language and the metaphysics of moral facts; and it is distinct from applied ethics in that the former is more concerned with 'who ought one be' rather than the ethics of a specific issue (such as if, or when, abortion is acceptable).\n\nNormative ethics is also distinct from descriptive ethics, as the latter is an empirical investigation of people’s moral beliefs. In this context normative ethics is sometimes called \"prescriptive\", rather than \"descriptive\" ethics. However, on certain versions of the meta-ethical view called moral realism, moral facts are both descriptive and prescriptive at the same time.\n\nMost traditional moral theories rest on principles that determine whether an action is right or wrong. Classical theories in this vein include utilitarianism, Kantianism, and some forms of contractarianism. These theories mainly offered the use of overarching moral principles to resolve difficult moral decisions.\n\nThere are disagreements about what precisely gives an action, rule, or disposition its ethical force. There are three competing views on how moral questions should be answered, along with hybrid positions that combine some elements of each. Virtue ethics focuses on the character of those who are acting, while both deontological ethics and consequentialism focus on the status of the action, rule, or disposition itself. The latter two conceptions of ethics themselves come in various forms.\n\n\nIt can be unclear what it means to say that a person \"ought to do X because it is moral, whether they like it or not\". Morality is sometimes presumed to have some kind of special binding force on behaviour, but some philosophers think that, used this way, the word \"ought\" seems to wrongly attribute magic powers to morality. For instance, G. E. M. Anscombe worries that \"ought\" has become \"a word of mere mesmeric force\". British ethicist Philippa Foot elaborates that morality does not seem to have any special binding force, and she clarifies that people only behave morally when motivated by other factors.\nFoot says \"People talk, for instance, about the 'binding force' of morality, but it is not clear what this means if not that we feel ourselves unable to escape.\" The idea is that, faced with an opportunity to steal a book because we can get away with it, moral obligation itself has no power to stop us unless we \"feel\" an obligation. Morality may therefore have no binding force beyond regular human motivations, and people must be motivated to behave morally. The question then arises: what role does reason play in motivating moral behaviour?\n\nThe categorical imperative perspective suggests that proper reason always leads to particular moral behaviour. As mentioned above, Foot instead believes that humans are actually motivated by desires. Proper reason, on this view, allows humans to discover actions that get them what they want (i.e., hypothetical imperatives)—not necessarily actions that are moral.\n\nSocial structure and motivation can make morality binding in a sense, but only because it makes moral norms feel inescapable, according to Foot.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill adds that external pressures, to please others for instance, also influence this felt binding force, which he calls human \"conscience\". Mill says that humans must first reason about what is moral, then try to bring the feelings of our conscience in line with our reason. At the same time, Mill says that a good moral system (in his case, utilitarianism) ultimately appeals to aspects of human nature — which, must themselves be nurtured during upbringing. Mill explains:\nThis firm foundation is that of the social feelings of mankind; the desire to be in unity with our fellow creatures, which is already a powerful principle in human nature, and happily one of those which tend to become stronger, even without express inculcation, from the influences of advancing civilisation.\nMill thus believes that it is important to appreciate that it is feelings that drive moral behavior, but also that they may not be present in some people (e.g. psychopaths). Mill goes on to describe factors that help ensure people develop a conscience and behave morally, and thinkers like Joseph Daleiden describe how societies can use science to figure out how to make people more likely to be good.\n\n"}
{"id": "48945580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48945580", "title": "Panhumanism", "text": "Panhumanism\n\nPanhumanism is the concept of an affiliation with all mankind through some sort of legislative structure that allows all technological and economic development to be for the benefit of all people. The concept is sometimes seen as far-left, although there are also right-wing and centrist pan-human organisations, including the United Nations, some of which have even received significant opposition from the far-left over globalisation policies.\n\nHumanism originates in the European Renaissance, especially the Italian Renaissance, although the word wasn't coined until the early nineteenth century. Rather than an ideology, it was a cultural frame of ideas with a non-absolutistic approach to any truth. It emphasized the uniqueness of the individual and often claimed a connection between man and nature.\n\nAt the core of Renaissance humanism was the concept of \"humanitas\", which meant the development of human virtue to its fullest extent. The possessor of humanitas could not be merely a sedentary and isolated philosopher or man of letters but was of necessity a participant in active life. Just as action without insight was held to be aimless and barbaric, insight without action was rejected as barren and imperfect. Humanitas scholars also believed it was inevitable to project humanitas from the individual into the state at large.\n\nCarl Sagan's ideas have attracted widespread crtiticism from two main points of opposition. The first argues that the trend is in fact not in that direction, as part of the reason why we evolve is in order to continually face a greater enemy. Therefore, without an enemy that places the whole of humankind on the other side, panhumanism is not possible.\n\nThe other group argues that although Sagan is correct to assume that the trend is in that direction, it will never happen naturally because we artificially slow the trend ourselves by punishing racism. According to this argument, applying Sagan's logic leads you to the conclusion that racists are more evolved than nationalists, because they associate with a higher level of affiliation.\n\nA communist society or communist system is the type of society and economic system postulated to emerge from technological advances in the productive forces in Marxist thought, representing the ultimate goal of the political ideology of Communism. A communist society is characterized by common ownership of the means of production with free access to the articles of consumption and is classless and stateless, implying the end of the exploitation of labor. In his \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\" Karl Marx referred to this stage of development as upper-stage communism.\n\nWorld government is the notion of a common political authority for all of humanity, yielding a global government and a single state. Such a government could come into existence either through violent and compulsory world domination or through peaceful and voluntary supranational union. Currently there is no worldwide executive, legislature, judiciary, military, or constitution with jurisdiction over the entire planet. The United Nations is limited to a mostly advisory role, and its stated purpose is to foster cooperation between existing national governments rather than exert authority over them.\n\nA United Nations Parliamentary Assembly (UNPA) is a proposed addition to the United Nations System that would allow for participation of member nations' legislators and, eventually, direct election of United Nations (UN) parliament members by citizens worldwide. The idea was raised at the founding of the League of Nations in the 1920s and again following the end of World War II in 1945, but remained dormant throughout the Cold War. In the 1990s and 2000s, the rise of global trade and the power of world organizations that govern it led to calls for a parliamentary assembly to scrutinize their activity. The Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly was formed in 2007 to coordinate pro-UNPA efforts, which as of July 2013 has received the support of over 850 Members of Parliament from over 90 countries worldwide, in addition to over 350 non-governmental organizations and 21 Nobel and Right Livelihood laureates and 16 Heads or former heads of state or government and foreign ministers.\n\n"}
{"id": "43836459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43836459", "title": "Percy Bolt", "text": "Percy Bolt\n\nPercy Bolt (1885–1953) was an Australian pioneer rugby league player from the 1910s.\n\nPercy Bolt was a rugby union convert who joined the Western Suburbs Magpies in 1910 and captained the club that year. He joined the stronger Annandale club in 1911 but he retired by years end. Percy Bolt died at his Stanmore home on 14 October 1953, aged 68. \n"}
{"id": "41121206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41121206", "title": "Phase resetting in neurons", "text": "Phase resetting in neurons\n\nPhase resetting in neurons is a behavior observed in different biological oscillators and plays a role in creating neural synchronization as well as different processes within the body. Phase resetting in neurons is when the dynamical behavior of an oscillation is shifted. This occurs when a stimulus perturbs the phase within an oscillatory cycle and a change in period occurs. The periods of these oscillations can vary depending on the biological system, with examples such as: (1) neural responses can change within a millisecond to quickly relay information; (2) In cardiac and respiratory changes that occur throughout the day, could be within seconds; (3) circadian rhythms may vary throughout a series of days; (4) rhythms such as hibernation may have periods that are measured in years. \nThis activity pattern of neurons is a phenomenon seen in various neural circuits throughout the body and is seen in single neuron models and within clusters of neurons. Many of these models utilize phase response (resetting) curves where the oscillation of a neuron is perturbed and the effect the perturbation has on the phase cycle of a neuron is measured.\n\nLeon Glass and Michael Mackey (1988) developed the theory behind limit cycle oscillators to observe the effects of perturbing oscillating neurons under the assumption the stimulus applied only affected the phase cycle and not the amplitude of response.\n\nPhase resetting plays a role in promoting neural synchrony in various pathways in the brain, from regulating circadian rhythms and heartbeat via cardiac pacemaker cells to playing significant roles in memory, pancreatic cells and neurodegenerative diseases such as epilepsy. Burst of activity in patterns of behaviors occur through coupled oscillators using pulsatile signals, better known as pulse-coupled oscillators.\n\nShifts in phase (or behavior of neurons) caused due to a perturbation (an external stimulus) can be quantified within a Phase Response Curve (PRC) to predict synchrony in coupled and oscillating neurons. These effects can be computed, in the case of advances or delays to responses, to observe the changes in the oscillatory behavior of neurons, pending on when a stimulus was applied in the phase cycle of an oscillating neuron. The key to understanding this is in the behavioral patterns of neurons and the routes neural information travels. Neural circuits are able to communicate efficiently and effectively within milliseconds of experiencing a stimulus and lead to the spread of information throughout the neural network. The study of neuron synchrony could provide information on the differences that occur in neural states such as normal and diseased states. Neurons that are involved significantly in diseases such as Alzheimers or Parkinsons diseases are shown to undergo phase resetting before launching into phase locking where clusters of neurons are able to begin firing rapidly to communicate information quickly.\nA phase response curve can be calculated by noting changes to its period over time depending on where in the cycle the input is applied. The perturbation left by the stimulus moves the stable cycle within the oscillation followed by a return to the stable cycle limit. The curve tracks the amount of advancement or delay due to the input in the oscillating neuron. The PRC assumes certain patterns of behavior in firing pattern as well as the network of oscillating neurons to model the oscillations. Currently, only a few circuits exist which can be modeled using an assumed firing pattern.\n\nIn order to model the behavior of firing neural circuits, the following is calculated to generate a PRC curve and its trajectory. The period formula_1 is defined as the unperturbed period of an oscillator from the phase cycle defined as 0≤ ∅ ≤1 and the cycle that has undergone a perturbation is known as formula_2 as shown in the following equation. An advance in phase occurs when trajectory of the motion is displaced in the direction of the motion due a shortening of period whereas a phase delay occurs when the displacement occurs in the opposite direction of motion.\n\nIf the perturbation to the oscillatory cycle is infinitesimally small, it is possible to derive a response function of the neural oscillator. This response function can be classified into different classes (Type 1 and Type 2) based upon its response.\n\n\nNumerous research has suggested two primary assumptions that allow the use of PRCs to be used to predict the occurrence of synchrony within neural oscillation. These assumptions work to show synchrony within coupled neurons that are linked to other neurons. The first assumption claims that coupling between neurons must be weak and requires an infinitesimally small phase change in response to a perturbation.\n\nThe second assumption assumes coupling between neurons to be pulsatile where the perturbation to calculate PRC should only include those inputs that are received within the circuit. This leads to a limitation of each phase being completed within a reset before another perturbation can be received.\n\nThe main difference between the two assumptions is for pulsatile the effects of any inputs must be known or measured prior. In weak coupling, only the magnitude of response due to a perturbation needs to be measured to calculate phase resetting. The weak coupling also induces the claim that many cycles must occur prior to convergence of oscillators to phase lock to lead to synchronization.\n\nMuch argument still exists in whether the assumptions behind phase resetting are valid for analysis of neural activity leading to synchronization and other neural properties. Event-related Potential (ERP) is a commonly used measure to the response of the brain to different events and can be measured via electroencephalography (EEG). EEGs can be used to measured electrical activity throughout the brain noninvasively. The Phase Response Curve operates under the following criteria and must occur to prove that phase resetting is the cause of the behavior:\n\n\nArguments that claim the activity pattern observed in neurons is not phase resetting, but could instead be the response to evoked potentials (ERPs), include:\n\n\nEpilepsy is traditionally viewed as a disease resulting from hypersynchronous neural activity. Research has shown that specific changes in the topology of neural networks and their increase in synaptic strength can move into hyper-excited states. Normal networks of neurons fire in synchronous patterns that lead to communication; if this behavior is excited further, it can lead to \"bursting\" and significantly increase this communication. This increase then leads to over-activation of neural networks and finally to seizures. Diseases such as epilepsy demonstrate how synchrony amongst neural networks must be highly regulated to prevent asynchronous activity. The study of neural regulation could help to outline methods to reduce symptoms of asynchronous activity such as that observed in epilepsy.\n\nPhase resetting is important in the formation of long-term memories. Due to synchronization within the gamma-frequency range has been shown to be followed by phase resetting of theta oscillations when phase-locked by a stimulus. This shows increased neural synchrony, due to connections within neural networks, during the formation of memories by reactivating certain networks continuously.\n\nDuring memory tasks that required quick formation of memories, phase resetting within alpha activity increased the strength of the memories.\n\nTheta phase precession is a phenomenon observed in the hippocampus of rats and relates to the timing of neural spikes.\nWhen rats navigate around their environment, there are certain neurons in the hippocampus that fire (spike) when the animal is near a familiar landmark. Each neuron is tuned to a particular unique landmark, and for that reason, these neurons are called place cells.\n\nCuriously, it turns out that when a place cell fires is determined by how far the animal is from the landmark. There is a background oscillation in the hippocampus in the theta band (4 – 8 Hz). As the animal approaches the landmark, the spiking of the place cell moves earlier in phase relative to the background theta oscillation, so that the phase offset essentially measures or represents the distance. This phase shifting relative to spatial distance is called phase precession.\n\n"}
{"id": "6027448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027448", "title": "Prix mondial Cino Del Duca", "text": "Prix mondial Cino Del Duca\n\nThe Prix mondial Cino Del Duca (Cino Del Duca World Prize) is an international literary award. With an award amount of , it is among the richest literary prizes.\n\nIt was established in 1969 in France by Simone Del Duca (1912–2004) to continue the work of her husband, publishing magnate Cino Del Duca (1899–1967). \n\nThe award recognizes an author whose work constitutes, in a scientific or literary form, a message of modern humanism. The award's prize has been valued as high as 300,000 € over the years; in 2016 it was 200,000. \n\nIn 1975, Madame Del Luca established the Simone and Cino Del Duca Foundation for a variety of philanthropic purposes and it assumed responsibility for the award. Following her death in 2004, the foundation was placed under the auspices of the Institut de France.\n\n"}
{"id": "10536796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10536796", "title": "Purr Pals", "text": "Purr Pals\n\nPurr Pals is a pet simulation game by American studio Brain Toys in which the player takes care of a kitten. It is Crave Entertainment's answer to Nintendo's \"Nintendogs\" and is sponsored by Purina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3747397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3747397", "title": "Rob Bell", "text": "Rob Bell\n\nRobert Holmes \"Rob\" Bell Jr. (born August 23, 1970) is an American author, speaker and former pastor. Bell was the founder of Mars Hill Bible Church located in Grandville, Michigan, which he pastored until 2012. Under his leadership Mars Hill was one of the fastest-growing churches in America. He is also the author of the \"New York Times\" bestseller \"Love Wins\" and the writer and narrator of a series of spiritual short films called NOOMA. In 2011, \"Time Magazine\" named Bell on its list of the 100 Most Influential People in the World. He has since become a freelance writer and speaker appearing on various talk shows and national speaking tours on topics related to spirituality and leadership. He also hosts a popular podcast called,'The Robcast.' In 2018, a documentary about Bell called \"The Heretic\" was released.\n\nBell is the son of U.S. District Judge Robert Holmes Bell, who was appointed to the federal bench by Ronald Reagan.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Bell attended Wheaton College in Illinois. While at Wheaton, he roomed with Ian Eskelin of All Star United. With friends Dave Houk, Brian Erickson, Steve Huber and Chris Fall, he formed the indie rock band, \"_ton bundle\", which was reminiscent of bands such as R.E.M. and Talking Heads. During this time _ton bundle wrote the song \"Velvet Elvis\", based upon the same Velvet Elvis painting that he used in his first book, \"Velvet Elvis: Repainting the Christian Faith\". Wheaton College was also where Bell met his wife, Kristen. The band _ton bundle started to gain some local fame and was even asked to perform at large events, but when Bell was struck with viral meningitis these plans fell through.\n\nBell received his bachelor's degree in 1992 from Wheaton and taught water skiing in the summers at the college's Honey Rock Camp, making about thirty dollars a week. During this time, he offered to teach a Christian message to the camp counselors after no pastor could be found. He taught a message about rest and was later approached by several people, each of them telling him that he should pursue teaching as a career.\n\nBell moved to Pasadena, California to pursue this calling for teaching and received a M.Div. from Fuller Theological Seminary. According to Bell, he never received good grades in preaching class because he always tried innovative ways to communicate his ideas. During his time at Fuller he was a youth intern at Lake Avenue Church. He did, however, occasionally attend Christian Assembly in Eagle Rock, California, which led to him and his wife asking questions in the direction of how a new style of church would appear.\n\nBetween 1995 and 1997, Bell formed a band called Big Fil which released two CDs; the first was a self-titled disc and the second was titled \"Via De La Shekel\". When asked what style of music they played, Bell would respond with \"Northern Gospel!\", which later became the name of a song on the second album. Even after Big Fil stopped performing, Bell continued with two more projects by the name of \"Uno Dos Tres Communications volume 1 and 2\", both of which had a similar musical sound to Big Fil.\n\nBell and his wife moved from California to Grand Rapids to be close to family and on invitation to study under pastor Ed Dobson. He handled many of the preaching duties for the Saturday Night service at Calvary Church. Bell announced that he would be branching out on his own to start a new kind of community and he would call it \"Mars Hill\" after the Greek site where the apostle Paul told a group, \"For as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship, I even found an altar with this inscription: TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. Now what you worship as something unknown I am going to proclaim to you.\"\n\nIn February 1999, Bell founded Mars Hill Bible Church, with the church originally meeting in a school gym in Wyoming, Michigan. Within a year the church was given a shopping mall in Grandville, Michigan, and purchased the surrounding land. In July 2000 the 3,500 \"grey chair\" facility opened its doors. As of 2005, an estimated 11,000 people attended the two \"gatherings\" on Sundays at 9 and 11 AM. As of March 2011, Sunday attendance numbered between 8,000 and 10,000. His teachings at Mars Hill inspired the popular \"Love Wins\" bumper sticker, and the congregation freely distributed these stickers after services.\n\nIn order to maintain balance in his life, Bell maintained his Fridays as a personal sabbath, where he did not allow contact by electronic means, and had all pastoral duties transferred to other Mars Hill pastors.\n\nIn the January 2007 issue of the magazine \"TheChurchReport.com\", Bell was named No. 10 in its list of \"The 50 Most Influential Christians in America\" as chosen by their readers and online visitors.\n\nIn June 2011, Bell was named by \"Time Magazine\" as one of the \"2011 Time 100\", the magazine's annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.\n\nBell stepped down from the church he founded on September 22, 2011 in order to pursue other areas to reach a broader audience. He later said that his book \"Love Wins\" had led to a fallout with the congregation and forced him on a \"search for a more forgiving faith.\"\n\nIn July 2012 Bell held his first major event since leaving Mars Hill, speaking at the famous Viper Room night club in Los Angeles. Bell hosts conferences and workshops in Laguna Beach for \"leaders, teachers, preachers, entrepreneurs, artists, pastors—anyone whose work involves creating something and then turning it loose in the world.\"\n\nBell is the featured speaker in NOOMA – a series of short films. The title of the video series, \"NOOMA\", is an English variation of the Greek word \"pneuma\" which means breath or spirit. All the videos feature the teachings of Bell accompanied by music written and sung by local independent artists with the exception of \"The Album Leaf\"'s music being licensed for the NOOMA DVD \"Lump\".\n\nIn August 2005, Zondervan Publishing published Bell's first book, \"Velvet Elvis: Repainting the Christian Faith\". \"Velvet Elvis\" is, according to the official online summary, \"for the millions of people who are fascinated by Jesus, but can’t do the standard Christian package. In his debut book, Bell explores a new understanding of the Christian faith.\"\n\nBell's \"Everything is Spiritual\" national speaking tour launched on June 30, 2006, in Chicago, drawing sold-out crowds in cities across North America. The proceeds from ticket sales were used to support WaterAid, an international non-profit organization dedicated to helping people escape the poverty and disease caused by living without safe water and sanitation.\n\nBell's second book, titled \"Sex God: Exploring the Endless Connections between Sexuality and Spirituality\", was released in March 2007. In February and March 2007 Bell hosted a \"Sex God\" tour on six university campuses to promote his book. The tour functioned more as a time for engaging questions and conversation. Questions ranged from Old Testament codes to homosexuality to what should Christians do with the word \"evangelical\". Each night ended with the showing of NOOMA number 15 entitled \"YOU\".\n\nIn June 2007 Bell toured the United Kingdom and Ireland with a series called \"Calling All Peacemakers\".\n\nBell launched another speaking tour on November 5, 2007, in Chicago. \"The Gods Aren't Angry\" again drew sold-out crowds in cities across North America. The subject matter was a narrative defense of justification through faith and not works (sacrifice). Proceeds from this tour were used to support the Turame Microfinance program supporting the poor in Burundi, a mission supported by Bell's church.\n\nBell's 2009 project, \"Drops Like Stars,\" explores the links between creativity and suffering. \"Drops Like Stars\" was an international tour and a book, initially handwritten by Bell, with photographs. The title of the project comes from a young child's view of raindrops on a window at night. Rather than focusing on the conundrum of why an all-powerful God would allow suffering, Bell instead looks at the creativity, empathy, new connections, and growth that can spring from suffering. When asked in an interview how he had become interested in suffering, Bell replied that as a pastor he had been given a front row seat in the most poignant moments of people's lives. At the same time he was doing lectures on creativity and realized, \"There was a connection between these two halves of my life – all these connections between suffering and art-making.\"\n\nIn September 2013 Bell was interviewed by Oprah for her \"Super Soul Sunday\" television show. Bell's book, \"What We Talk About When We Talk About God\", was also listed as the first recommended book that month in Oprah's \"Book of the Month\" club.\n\nABC television announced production of a new television drama, \"Stronger\", co-written by Bell and Carlton Cuse, the executive producer of the television series, \"Lost\". The show, based loosely on Bell's life and his unpublished novel-turned-pilot-script, would follow the life of Tom Stronger, a musician on a spiritual journey. Ultimately, Bell and Cuse were unable to get approval to shoot a pilot for \"Stronger\".\n\nBell and Cuse have moved on to another project described as a \"faith-inflected talk show\" presented by Bell. Two tapings of the proposed show were filmed in September 2012 in a warehouse in Los Angeles' art district in order to put together a reel for network executives. At the time, they were referenced as either \"That One Show Rob Bell and Carlton Cuse Have Been Working On\", or \"The September Shows\" for short. A trailer has since been produced using \"The Rob Bell Show\" as a title card. His first and second guest each night were Cathleen Falsani and James \"Jame-o\" Primbram, an eco-warrior.\n\nIn his writings, Bell says \"I affirm the truth anywhere in any religious system, in any worldview. If it's true, it belongs to God.\"\n\nBell says, \"This is not just the same old message with new methods. We're rediscovering Christianity as an Eastern religion, as a way of life. Legal metaphors for faith don't deliver a way of life. We grew up in churches where people knew the nine verses why we don't speak in tongues, but had never experienced the overwhelming presence of God.\"\n\nBell's book \"Love Wins\" caused a major controversy within the evangelical community. The controversy was the subject of a \"Time\" magazine cover story and a featured article in the \"New York Times\". In the book, Bell states that \"It's been clearly communicated to many that this belief (in hell as eternal, conscious torment) is a central truth of the Christian faith and to reject it is, in essence, to reject Jesus. This is misguided and toxic and ultimately subverts the contagious spread of Jesus' message of love, peace, forgiveness and joy that our world desperately needs to hear.\" In this book, Bell outlines a number of views of hell, including universal reconciliation. Though he does not choose any one view as his own, he states \"Whatever objections a person may have of [the universalist view], and there are many, one has to admit that it is fitting, proper, and Christian to long for it.\"\n\nThe book was criticized by numerous conservative evangelical figures (in particular, some reformed church leaders), such as Albert Mohler, John Piper, and David Platt, with Mohler saying that the book was \"theologically disastrous\" for not rejecting universalism. Other evangelicals, such as Brian McLaren, Greg Boyd and Eugene Peterson defended Bell's views. Bell denies that he is a universalist and says that he does not embrace any particular view but argues that Christians should leave room for uncertainty on the matter. As Jon Meacham stated, \"Love Wins\" presents [Bell's] \"case for living with mystery rather than demanding certitude.\" Some evangelicals argued that this \"uncertainty\" is incompatible with Scripture, while others say that the book is simply promoting overdue conversation about some traditional interpretations of Scripture. In the book, Bell also questions \"evacuation theology\" which has Christians focused on getting to heaven, instead of focusing on God's renewal and transformation of this world. Bell argues that Jesus (and the wider Jewish tradition of which he was a part) focused on God's ongoing restoration of this world, not getting individuals to heaven.\n\nAt his Viper Room appearance in July 2012, Bell took a question from an audience member concerned about the church's acceptance of gay members. Said Bell, \"Some people are gay, and you're our brothers and you're our sisters, and we love you. We love you... [Gay people] are passionate disciples of Jesus just like I'm trying to be, so let's all get together and try to do something about the truly big problems in our world.\" On March 17, 2013, in an interview at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco, Bell said, \"I am for marriage. I am for fidelity. I am for love, whether it's a man and a woman, a woman and a woman, a man and a man...And I think the ship has sailed. This is the world we are living in and we need to affirm people wherever they are.\"\n\nBell has expressed frustration with the current state of conservative evangelicalism, calling it \"a very narrow, politically intertwined, culturally ghettoized Evangelical subculture.\" He says that Evangelicals have \"turned away lots of people\" from the church by talking about God in ways that \"don't actually shape people into more loving, compassionate people,\" adding that Evangelicals \"have supported policies and ways of viewing the world that are actually destructive, and we've done it in the name of God and we need to repent.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26515094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26515094", "title": "Robert Black (serial killer)", "text": "Robert Black (serial killer)\n\nRobert Black (21 April 1947 – 12 January 2016) was a Scottish serial killer and paedophile who was convicted of the kidnap, rape, sexual assault and murder of four girls aged between 5 and 11 in a series of killings committed between 1981 and 1986 in the United Kingdom.\n\nBlack was convicted of the kidnapping, rape and murder of three girls on 19 May 1994. He was also convicted of the kidnapping of a fourth girl, and had earlier been convicted of the kidnapping and sexual assault of a fifth. He was sentenced to life imprisonment, with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 35 years.\n\nBlack was further convicted of the 1981 sexual assault and murder of nine-year-old Jennifer Cardy in 2011, and at the time of his death was regarded as the prime suspect in the 1978 disappearance and murder of 13-year-old Genette Tate. Black may also have been responsible for several other unsolved child murders throughout Britain, Ireland and continental Europe between 1969 and 1987.\n\nThe nationwide manhunt for Black was one of the most exhaustive UK murder investigations of the 20th century. He died in prison in 2016.\n\nRobert Black was born in Grangemouth, Stirlingshire, on 21 April 1947, the illegitimate child of Jessie Hunter Black and an unknown father. His mother originally planned to have him adopted before she emigrated to Australia to escape the stigma of his birth. He was not adopted, and at six months old was placed with an experienced, middle-aged foster couple in Kinlochleven named Tulip. He adopted their surname.\n\nBlack showed antisocial tendencies and became known as an aggressive child with few friends. He was prone to tantrums and vandalised school property. He was also a target for bullying among children his own age, and became a bully towards younger children. Though his foster mother insisted upon cleanliness, he cared little for his own hygiene and was called \"Smelly Bobby Tulip\" by classmates.\n\nAt the age of five, Black and a girl the same age compared their genitalia, triggering a childhood belief within Black that he should have been born female, and he developed a deep interest in his genitalia, the genitals of female children, and body orifices. From the age of eight he would regularly insert objects in his own anus, a practice he carried into adulthood.\n\nLocals later recalled seeing bruises on Black's face and limbs, suggesting he had been physically abused by his foster parents. Black stated he could not recollect their origin, and they may have resulted from childhood fights. Despite being adamant he could not recall the origin of these bruises, Black was a chronic bed wetter, and freely admitted to being berated and beaten by his foster mother for each offence.\n\nBy 1958 the Tulips had both died, and he was placed with another foster family in Kinlochleven. He soon committed his first known sexual assault, dragging a young girl into a public lavatory and fondling her. His foster mother reported the offence and insisted he be removed from her home.\n\nBlack was placed in a mixed-sex children's home on the outskirts of Falkirk. Here he regularly exposed himself to girls, and on one occasion, he forcibly removed the underwear of a girl. As a result, he was sent to Red House Care Home, a high-discipline, all-male establishment in Musselburgh. At this new location Black was sexually abused by a male staff member for three years; typically by being forced to perform fellatio. During this time he studied at Musselburgh Grammar School, developing an interest in football and swimming. Other students recall him as taciturn, with few friends.\n\nIn 1963, Black left the Red House Care Home. With assistance from child welfare agencies, he moved to another boys' home in Greenock and obtained a job as a butcher's delivery boy. He later said that he had fondled thirty to forty young girls while making deliveries if, upon calling at the house, he discovered young girls were alone in the premises. None of these incidents seem to have been reported.\n\nOn a summer evening in 1963, Black encountered a seven-year-old girl playing alone in a park; he lured the child to a deserted air-raid shelter on the pretext of showing her some kittens. There he held the girl by the throat until she lost consciousness, then masturbated over her body. The following day, Black was arrested and charged with lewd and libidinous behaviour. A psychiatric examination suggested the incident was an isolated one, and that Black was not in need of treatment; as a result he was admonished for the offence.\n\nShortly after, Black moved to Grangemouth, where he lodged with an elderly couple and worked for a builders' supply company. He began dating a young woman he met at a local youth club. This was his only known girlfriend, and they dated for several months. According to Black, he had asked this woman to marry him, and was devastated when she abruptly ended their relationship, in part due to his unusual sexual demands.\n\nIn 1966 Black's landlords discovered he had molested their nine-year-old granddaughter whenever she visited their household. They evicted him but did not inform police, wanting to spare their granddaughter further trauma. Black lost his job soon after, and he returned to Kinlochleven, where he lodged with a married couple who had a six-year-old daughter.\n\nWithin a year, Black's new landlords informed police that he had repeatedly molested their daughter. He pleaded guilty to three counts of indecent assault against a child. He was sentenced to a year at Polmont Borstal in Brightons, which specialised in training and rehabilitating of serious youthful offenders. Although he later spoke freely about every aspect of his youth and adolescence—including the sexual abuse he had suffered at the Red House Care Home—he refused to discuss Polmont Borstal beyond saying he had vowed to never again be imprisoned; this has led to speculation that he may have been brutalised there.\n\nIn September 1968, six months after his release from Polmont Borstal, Black moved to London, where he initially found lodgings in a bedsit close to King's Cross station. Between 1968 and 1970, he supported himself through various—often casual—jobs. One of these was as a lifeguard at a Hornsey swimming pool, where he was soon fired for fondling a young girl; no charges were brought.\n\nVia a contact he had met at a King's Cross bookshop, Black began to collect child pornography. Initially, much of this material was in magazine and photograph format, although he later expanded this material to include videos depicting graphic child sexual abuse. As Black was a keen photographer, he sometimes also discreetly photographed children (mostly girls between eight and twelve) at locations such as swimming pools; he stored these images alongside his pornographic material in locked suitcases.\n\nBlack frequented the Three Crowns, a Stamford Hill pub, where he became known as a proficient darts player. There he also met a Scottish couple, Edward and Kathy Rayson. In 1972, he moved into their attic. The Raysons considered Black a responsible if somewhat reclusive tenant who gave them no cause for complaint beyond his poor hygiene. They suspected Black of viewing pornographic material, but had no idea it might be paedophilic. Black remained their lodger until his arrest in 1990.\n\nTo increase his scope for casual work, in the mid-1970s Black bought a white Fiat van to enable him to commit to driving for a living. In 1976, Black obtained a permanent job as a van driver for Poster, Dispatch and Storage Ltd, a Hoxton-based firm whose fleet delivered posters—typically depicting pop stars—and billboard advertisements to locations across the UK, Ireland and continental Europe. To his employers, Black was a conscientious employee who was willing to undertake the long-distance deliveries some of his married co-workers disliked.\n\nWhile working as a driver, Black developed a thorough knowledge of much of the UK road network, subsequently enabling him to snatch children across the entire country and dispose of their bodies hundreds of miles from the site of their abduction. To reduce the chance of being identified by eyewitnesses, Black often adjusted his appearance by alternately growing a beard or appearing clean-shaven, and occasionally shaved his head completely bald. Black also owned over a dozen pairs of spectacles, and would wear a pair significantly different from those he regularly wore when abducting children. He also covered the rear windows of his van with opaque black curtains.\n\nThe first murder Black is proven to have committed was that of nine-year-old Jennifer Cardy, who was abducted, sexually assaulted and murdered on 12 August 1981. Cardy was last seen by her mother at 1:40 p.m. as she cycled to a friend's house in Ballinderry, County Antrim; she never arrived.\n\nHours later, Cardy's bicycle was discovered less than a mile from her home, covered with branches and leaves. The stand of the bicycle was down, suggesting that she had stopped her bicycle to converse with her abductor. A search aided by 200 volunteers, found nothing further.\n\nSix days later, hunters discovered Cardy's body from her home, in a reservoir near a lay-by in Hillsborough. A pathologist noted signs of sexual abuse on Cardy's body and underwear; the autopsy concluded she had died of drowning—most likely accompanied by ligature strangulation. The watch she had been wearing had stopped at 5:40 p.m.\n\nThe location of the body near a major arterial road between Belfast and Dublin led police to suspect her murderer had been familiar with the area. The reservoir she had been found in was near a route frequented by long-distance delivery drivers, suggesting that the killer may have travelled extensively.\nBlack's second confirmed victim was 11-year-old Susan Claire Maxwell, who lived in Cornhill-on-Tweed on the English side of the Anglo-Scottish border. Maxwell was abducted on 30 July 1982 as she walked home from playing tennis in Coldstream. She was last seen alive at 4:30 p.m., crossing the bridge over the River Tweed, and was likely abducted by Black shortly after.\n\nThe following day a search was mounted. Search dogs were used, and at peak 300 officers were assigned full-time; a thorough search was made of every property in both Cornhill and Coldstream and over 80 square miles of terrain. Several people reported having seen a white van in the locality; one said a van had been parked in a field gateway off the A697.\n\nOn 12 August, Maxwell's body was found by a lorry driver; her body was covered with undergrowth, and was clothed save for her shoes and underwear. The precise date and cause of her death could not be determined due to decomposition. Maxwell had been bound, and gagged with sticking plaster, and her underwear had been removed and folded beneath her head, suggesting that she had been sexually assaulted.\n\nA coroner's inquest concluded Maxwell had died shortly after being abducted. Evidently, Maxwell remained in Black's van—alive or dead—for over 24 hours, as his delivery schedule encompassed Edinburgh, Dundee, and finally Glasgow, where he made his final delivery close to midnight on 30 July. The following day, Black returned from Glasgow to London, discarding the body in a copse beside the A518 road near Uttoxeter, from where Maxwell had been abducted.\n\nFive-year-old Caroline Hogg, Black's youngest known victim, disappeared while playing outside her Beach Lane home in the Edinburgh suburb of Portobello in the early evening of 8 July 1983. When she failed to return home by 7:15 p.m., her family searched the surrounding streets. A boy told them he had seen Caroline with a man on the nearby promenade, which they searched before calling Lothian and Borders Police.\n\nThe ensuing search was the largest in Scottish history at that time, with 2,000 local volunteers and 50 members of the Royal Scots Fusiliers searching first Portobello, then expanding their scope to all of Edinburgh. By 10 July, Hogg's disappearance was headline news across the UK. Nine known paedophiles were identified as having been in Portobello on 8 July; all were eliminated from the inquiry.\n\nNumerous eyewitnesses had seen an unkempt, balding, \"furtive-looking\" man wearing horn-rimmed glasses, watching Hogg as she played; then following her to a nearby fairground. En route, a 14-year-old girl named Jennifer Booth had seen Hogg sitting with this man on a bench. Booth overheard Hogg reply \"Yes please\" to some question posed to her by the man before the two walked to the fairground holding hands.\nThere, the man paid for Caroline to ride a carousel as he watched. A witness stated to police that as they left, Caroline seemed frightened.\n\nHogg remained in Black's van for at least 24 hours. Black delivered posters to Glasgow several hours after the abduction, and refuelled his van in Carlisle early the following morning.\n\nOn 18 July, Hogg's naked body was found in a ditch close to the M1 motorway in Twycross, from where she had been abducted and just from where Maxwell's body had been found the previous year.\nThe precise cause of death could not be determined due to the extent of decomposition. Insect activity suggested the body had been placed where it was found on or after 12 July; Black had made a delivery to Bedworth on that date. The absence of clothing again suggested a sexual motive.\n\nThe following March, a televised reconstruction of the abduction was broadcast nationally. Appealing for witnesses to come forward, Hogg's father said: \"You think it can never happen to you, but it has proven time and time again that it can, and it could again if this man isn't caught in the near future.\"\n\nAfter the discovery of Hogg's body, a conference of senior Staffordshire and Leicestershire detectives unanimously concluded that Hogg's and Maxwell's murderers were the same person, to a large degree because of the distance between the abduction and discovery sites. (Cardy's murder was not linked to this series until 2009.)\n\nDue to the distances involved, police suspected that the murderer of Maxwell and Hogg worked as a lorry or van driver, or a sales representative, which required him to travel extensively to locations which included the Scottish Borders. Both girls had been bound and likely subjected to a sexual assault prior to the murders, and each had been wearing white ankle socks at the time of her abduction, which may have triggered a fetish in the perpetrator's psyche. Due to the geographical and circumstantial nature of the offences, the killer was most likely an opportunist.\n\nBased upon the day of the week when Maxwell and Hogg had been abducted (a Friday), the killer was likely tied to a delivery or production schedule. Following the August 1982 discovery of Maxwell's body, numerous transport firms with links between Scotland and the Midlands of England were contacted, and drivers were questioned about their whereabouts on the date of her abduction. This line of inquiry was repeated following the discovery of Hogg's body, but in both instances failed to yield results.\n\nDespite frustration at the lack of a breakthrough in their search for the murderer, there was complete cooperation between the detectives from the four police forces involved in the manhunt. Initially, a satellite incident room in Coldstream coordinated the efforts of the forces involved in the hunt for Maxwell's killer, with incident rooms in Leith and Portobello coordinating the search for Hogg's; within hours of Hogg's body being discovered, the chief constables of all forces now involved in investigating the murders agreed to appoint a senior investigating officer to coordinate the inquiries. Hector Clark, the assistant chief constable of Northumbria Police, took overall charge of the investigation. Clark established incident rooms in Northumberland and Leith police stations, to liaise between the four police forces involved.\n\nAll information relating to both child murders was initially logged within a card filing system, which contained 500,000 index cards relating to the Maxwell case alone. Mindful of the criticisms of the recent investigation into the Yorkshire Ripper, which had become overwhelmed due to the volume of information filed in a card filing system, one of Clark's first decisions upon taking overall charge of the murder investigation was to introduce computer technology into the investigation; he and other senior officers agreed that the most efficient way to cooperate in an investigation of this scope was to collate their information on the Hogg murder into a computerised database, which all forces involved in the manhunt could access. Information relating to Maxwell's murder was also later entered onto this database.\n\nBy January 1987, all information relating to the murders initially linked to Black was entered into the newly established HOLMES information technology system, with the £250,000 cost to implement it provided by the Home Office. Information continued to be entered into the database, and police forces nationwide could cross-check all data fed into this system. This database—based at the Child Murder Bureau in Bradford—expanded to hold information upon over 189,000 people, 220,000 vehicles, and details of interviews held with over 60,000 people. Much of the information came through three confidential hotlines established in 1984. As a result of the investigation into the killings, several unrelated crimes, including offences relating to child abuse, were solved.\n\nAt about 7:50 p.m. on 26 March 1986, 10-year-old Sarah Jayne Harper disappeared from the Leeds suburb of Morley, having left her home to buy a loaf of bread from a corner shop 100 yards from her home. The owner of the shop confirmed that Harper had bought a loaf of bread and two packets of crisps from her at 7:55 p.m., and that a balding man had briefly entered the shop moments later, then left as Harper made her purchases.\n\nSarah Harper was last seen alive by two girls walking into an alley leading towards her Brunswick Place home; when she had not returned by 8:20 p.m., her mother, Jackie, and younger sister, Claire, briefly searched the surrounding streets, before Jackie Harper reported her daughter missing to West Yorkshire Police. Immediately, an extensive search was launched to find the child. Over 100 police officers were assigned full-time to the search, which saw house-to-house inquiries across Morley, over 3,000 properties searched, more than 10,000 leaflets distributed, and 1,400 witness statements obtained. A police search of the surrounding land was bolstered by 200 local volunteers, and a reservoir in nearby Tingley was searched by underwater units.\n\nExtensive inquiries by West Yorkshire Police established that a white Ford Transit van had been in the area where Harper had been abducted. Two suspicious men had been seen loitering near the route Harper would have taken to the corner shop, and one of them was stocky and balding. Mindful of the possibility Harper had been abducted and murdered, West Yorkshire Police dispatched a telex to all forces nationwide, requesting that they search all locations where they had previously discovered child murder victims.\n\nAt a press conference on 3 April, Sarah's mother, Jackie, informed journalists that she feared her daughter was dead, and that the worst torment she and her family endured was the uncertainty. She made a direct appeal to her daughter's abductor to reveal the whereabouts of the body. On 19 April, a man discovered Sarah's partially dressed, gagged and bound body floating in the River Trent near Nottingham, from the site of her abduction. An autopsy showed she had died between five and eight hours after her she was last seen alive, and that the cause of her death was drowning; injuries she had received to her face, forehead, head and neck had most likely rendered her unconscious prior to being thrown into the water. Harper had also been the victim of a violent and sustained sexual assault prior to being thrown into the river, causing pre-mortem internal injuries which were described by the pathologist as \"simply terrible\".\n\nDays after Harper's body had been found, a further witness contacted West Yorkshire Police to say that at approximately 9:15 p.m. on 26 March, he had seen a white van with a stocky, balding man standing by the passenger door, parked close to the River Soar. As the Soar is a tributary to the Trent, and the description of the vehicle and driver matched those obtained from Morley residents, investigators took this eyewitness account seriously. Black refuelled his van in Newport Pagnell the following afternoon, and it is likely that he had driven Harper to Ratcliffe on Soar, and discarded her body in the Soar in the late evening of the date of her abduction, or the early hours of the following day.\n\nRealising the likelihood that Harper's murderer had travelled on the M1 motorway prior to disposing of her body in the river, and that he would have had to refuel his vehicle as he made this journey, officers from both West Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire Police questioned staff and motorists at all service stations on the M1 motorway between Woolley, West Yorkshire and Trowell, Nottinghamshire, asking whether they had noted anything unusual on 26 or 27 March. Staff at one station had noted a white Transit van which had seemed out of place on the evening of 26 March, but could not give a clear description of the driver.\n\nDetective John Stainthorpe, head of the Leeds South Division of West Yorkshire Police, initially stated his doubt that Harper's disappearance was linked to those of Maxwell and Hogg: in one interview, he said that although he would not discount the possibility, he believed that Harper's abductor had close, personal connections with Morley. Upon the discovery of her body in the River Trent, he revised his opinion.\n\nNumerous similarities linked the murder of Sarah Harper to those of Maxwell and Hogg: she had been a prepubescent, white female, abducted from Northern England and found murdered in the Midlands. All three victims had been discovered within of Ashby-de-la-Zouch, with little effort being made to conceal the bodies.\n\nDespite these similarities, several investigators initially doubted whether Harper's murder should be linked to the series due to the differences in the circumstances of her abduction and the fact that the child had been subjected to a serious sexual assault prior to her murder, whereas decomposition had erased any such clear traces on the bodies of the two previous victims. Harper had been abducted on a rainy Wednesday evening from a suburb in the north of England, wearing a hooded anorak covering much of her face, as opposed to being abducted on a summer Friday afternoon in southern Scotland while wearing summer clothing. Investigators remained open-minded as to whether Harper's murder had been committed by the same person, and telephone and computer connections were established between the incident room in the Leeds district of Holbeck and Leith. Harper's murder was formally linked to the series in November 1986.\n\nFollowing the murder of Sarah Harper, with six police forces now involved in the hunt for the offender, the police forces involved in the manhunt agreed that Hector Clark (by this time Detective Chief Constable of Lothian and Borders Police) should maintain overall command of the investigation. Clark created a new headquarters in Wakefield to act as a liaison between the six forces.\n\nOn 21 April 1986, the head of Scotland Yard's Criminal Intelligence Branch, Phillip Corbett, hosted a summit meeting at Scotland Yard, to discuss how best to share information between the forces involved in the manhunt, and to investigate potential links with 19 other unsolved child murders. Senior officers attended from 16 UK police forces. At this stage, the inquiry had cost in excess of a million pounds.\n\nOne of the outcomes of this meeting was that investigators contacted the FBI to request that they compose a psychological profile of the murderer for UK investigators. The FBI completed this profile in early 1988.\n\nFor the HOLMES database, investigators concluded only those with convictions for serious sexual offences against children would warrant further investigation. Those to be checked were to have been convicted of child murder, child abduction or attempted child abduction, or the indecent assault of a child. Every police force in the UK was asked to check their databases for people who had received convictions for any of these offences within 10 years of the 1982 murder of Susan Maxwell. This narrowed the number of people to be checked to 40,000 men, and Black's name was not on the list, as his sole conviction had been in 1967.\n\nIn January 1988, the UK investigators received the psychological profile of the killer from the FBI. This profile described the killer as a white male aged between 30 and 40 (likely closer to 40), who was a classic loner. This offender would be unkempt in appearance, and had received less than 12 years of formal education. He likely lived alone, in rented accommodation, in a lower-middle class neighbourhood. This profile also deduced that the motive for the child killings was sexual, that the offender held a fixation with child pornography, that he retained souvenirs from his victims, and he most likely engaged in necrophilia with his victims' bodies shortly after their death, before disposing of them.\n\nOn 23 April 1988, an attempted abduction of a teenage girl occurred in the Nottingham district of Radford which was not initially deemed by Nottinghamshire Police to be linked to the three child killings, and thus remained unreported to Clark or senior investigators in the national manhunt, despite the fact that all chief constables across the UK had been requested to report incidents of this nature to the inquiry team. The victim of this attempted abduction was Teresa Thornhill, a 15-year-old who was tall, which may have led Black to think she was younger than she was.\n\nThat evening, Thornhill had been at a social gathering in a local park with her boyfriend, Andrew Beeston, and other teenagers, before walking home with Beeston. The pair had parted company at the end of Norton Street when Thornhill noted a blue Transit van slowing to a stop ahead of her; the driver of this van then got out, raised the van's bonnet and asked Thornhill, \"Can you fix engines?\" When Thornhill replied that she could not and began walking at a much brisker pace, Black clasped his arms across her mouth and navel and attempted to drag her into his vehicle.\n\nThornhill resisted him: writhing and kicking as she attempted to free herself from what she later described as his \"bear hug\" grasping of her body. As her would-be abductor wrestled her to his van, Thornhill squeezed his testicles, causing him to loosen his grasp sufficiently enough for her to bite into his right forearm. Black shouted, \"Oh! You... bitch!\", as Thornhill began to scream for her mother, wedging her feet on each side of the door frame as she struggled to resist being forced into the van. At the same time, Beeston ran towards the van shouting, \"Let go of her, you fat bastard!\" Upon hearing this, Black loosened his grip on Thornhill, who fell into the road, sobbing. Black got into the driver's seat of the van and drove off.\n\nBoth Thornhill and Beeston ran to Thornhill's home and informed her parents what had occurred; they immediately reported the attempted abduction to Nottinghamshire Police, who questioned both youngsters. Both Thornhill and Beeston described her would-be abductor as an unkempt, overweight, balding and heavily built man aged between 40 and 50, and about in height.\n\nBlack was arrested in Stow on 14 July 1990. David Herkes, a 53-year-old retired postmaster, was mowing his front garden when he saw a blue Transit van slow to a standstill across the road. The driver exited the van—ostensibly to clean his windscreen—as the six-year-old daughter of Herkes' neighbour passed his field of view. As Herkes stooped to clear cuttings from his lawnmower, he saw the girl's feet lifting from the pavement; he then straightened himself to observe the vehicle's driver hastily pushing something through the passenger door before clambering across to the driver's seat, closing the passenger door, and starting the engine.\n\nRealising he had witnessed an abduction, Herkes noted the registration number of the van as it sped away. Herkes ran to the girl's home; the girl's mother called police.\n\nWithin minutes, six police vehicles had arrived in the village. As Herkes described the van to officers, he observed it driving in their direction and exclaimed, \"That's him! That's the same van!\" An officer jumped in the van's path, forcing it to halt. Police removed the driver from his seat and handcuffed him.\n\nOne of the officers, who was the father of the abducted girl, opened the rear of the van and clambered inside, calling his daughter's name. Seeing movement in a sleeping bag,}} he untied its drawstring to discover his daughter inside, her wrists bound behind her back, her legs tied together, her mouth bound and gagged with sticking plaster, and a hood tied over her head.\n\nEn route to Selkirk police station, Black said: \"It was a rush of blood to the head; I have always liked little girls since I was a lad. I tied her up because I wanted to keep her until I had dropped a parcel off. I was going to let her go.\" Black claimed he had interfered with his victim only \"a little\". A doctor found the victim had been subjected to a serious sexual assault.\n\nThe girl was able to pinpoint the lay-by on the A7 where Black had sexually assaulted her. Black's intention had been to quickly make a final scheduled delivery to Galashiels before further abusing and almost certainly killing his victim.\n\nAt Selkirk police station, Black admitted to sexually assaulting the girl, saying he had not done more to her because he \"didn't have much time\". Black was charged with plagium, and held on remand. As Black awaited a scheduled 16 July Selkirk Sheriff court appearance, the detective superintendent—noting the similarities between the Stow abduction and the three child killings—notified Hector Clark of Black's arrest. On 16 July, Clark travelled from Wakefield to interview Black at Edinburgh's St Leonards police station. Although Black's answers in this brief interview were largely monosyllabic, Clark left feeling that Black was the man he had sought since 1982. At Black's initial remand hearing he was ordered to stand trial at Edinburgh High Court for the abduction of the Stow girl; he was then transferred to Saughton Prison.\n\nA search of Black's van found restraining devices including assorted ropes, sticking plaster, and hoods; a Polaroid camera; numerous articles of girls' clothing; a mattress; and a selection of sexual aids. Black claimed that on his long-distance deliveries he would pull into a lay-by and dress in the children's clothing before masturbating; he gave no plausible explanation for the sexual aids.\n\nBlack's Stamford Hill lodgings were searched at the request of Scottish detectives, yielding a large collection of child pornography in magazine, book, photographic and video format, including 58 videos and films depicting graphic child sexual abuse which Black later claimed to have bought in continental Europe. Also found were several items of children's clothing, a semen-stained copy of a Nottingham newspaper detailing the 1988 attempted abduction of Teresa Thornhill, and a variety of sex aids.\n\nBlack's appointed defence lawyer, Herbert Kerrigan QC, and the Edinburgh procurator fiscal both ordered psychiatric evaluations of Black, which were undertaken by prominent psychiatrists. Both reports were uncompromising regarding Black's deviancy and proclivities towards children. Black told Kerrigan he intended to plead guilty to the abduction charges.\n\nOn 10 August 1990, Black was tried for the abduction and sexual assault of the Stow schoolgirl. He was tried at the Edinburgh High Court before Lord Donald MacArthur Ross. The trial lasted one day.\n\nIn his opening statement, Kerrigan stated his client would plead guilty to all charges. The Lord Advocate of Scotland, Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC then outlined the facts of the case, terming the implements found in Black's van a clear sign of premeditation, and citing a medical expert's testimony that the girl would likely have suffocated within 15 minutes had she not been rescued.\n\nTestimony was given that Black drove his victim to a lay-by to sexually abuse her, then returned through the village. In a statement read to the court, the victim stated she \"didn't know he [Black] was a bad man\" as Black had stared at her before bundling her into his van.\n\nIn rebuttal, Kerrigan asserted again that the abduction had been unplanned, and that Black had intended to release the girl after assaulting her. He pointed out that Black freely admitted his paedophilic preferences, and claimed to have successfully fought against the urge to abduct young girls prior to the incident at issue. He also said that Black accepted that he was a danger to children and wished to undergo treatment.\n\nPrior to sentencing, Ross paid tribute to Herkes, whose vigilance had led to Black's arrest. Sentencing Black to life imprisonment for what he described as \"a horrific, appalling case\", Ross said he was greatly influenced by the opinion of the psychiatrists, who had concluded that Black was, and would remain, an extreme danger to children.\n\nIn September 1990, Black announced his intention to appeal his life sentence, but he later abandoned this. In November 1990, he was transferred to Peterhead Prison.\n\nTwo weeks after the Stow trial, Clark conducted a second, recorded interview with Black. He had appointed Andrew Watt and Roger Orr to conduct the interview, with instructions they were to tell Black that they would not be judgemental.\n\nIn the six-hour interview, Black freely discussed his early sexual experiences, his experimentation with various forms of self-abuse, and his attraction towards young children; he also described his penchant for wearing young girls' clothing, and admitted to having sexually assaulted in excess of 30 young girls between the 1960s and 1980s. He was largely uncommunicative in response to questions even loosely pertaining to any unsolved child murders and disappearances, but said he had enticed two young girls into his van in Carlisle upon the pretext of asking for directions in late 1985, then allowed them to leave when eyewitnesses appeared.\n\nThe latter stages of this interview saw both men steer their questioning directly to the subject of child abduction and murder, specifically in relation to the murder of Caroline Hogg. Informing Black that police had already established he had been in Portobello on the date of Hogg's abduction, Watt and Orr then tacitly informed him they had eyewitness accounts and petrol-station receipts, further proving that he was near Portobello on the date of Hogg's abduction. Orr then produced a composite drawing of the man with whom Hogg had left the funfair, and placed this composite alongside photographs of Black dating from the early 1980s—highlighting their similarities. Black's replies then became evasive and monosyllabic. Asked directly, at the end of the interview, to confess in order to end the suffering of his victims' families, he did not respond.\n\nDespite the fact the information gleaned in this interview did little to advance the murder inquiry, upon the conclusion of the interview, Clark informed his two colleagues: \"That's our man. I'd bet my life on it.\"\n\nDetectives from all forces in the UK linked to the joint manhunt then began an intense and painstaking endeavour to gather sufficient evidence to convince the Crown Prosecution Service to instigate legal proceedings against Black, with a reasonable chance of securing convictions. As was his legal right, Black refused to cooperate with the detectives in their investigation.\n\nInvestigators contacted Poster, Dispatch and Storage Ltd to establish whether travel records could confirm his whereabouts on crucial dates linked to the investigation. Staff at this firm were able to confirm that Black had always bought petrol using credit cards, the receipts of which he would then submit to his firm to claim expenses. These files, plus several historical delivery schedules, were still in the company's archives. Investigators discovered that Black had made scheduled delivery runs to the areas where the abductions had occurred on the relevant dates, and although the precise times he had been in the area were difficult to adduce, petrol receipts confirmed he had bought fuel close to where each girl had been abducted on the date of her disappearance. For example, on the date of Sarah Harper's disappearance, Black had been scheduled to make a series of deliveries across the Midlands and Northern England. The two final deliveries on this schedule had been in West Yorkshire: in Brighouse, then a final delivery in Morley at a firm 150 yards from Harper's home. Black had refuelled his van between these two destinations shortly before Harper had last been seen alive.\n\nInvestigators discovered that upon his return to London from his long-distance deliveries to Northern England or Scotland, Black had regularly slept overnight in a house in Donisthorpe which belonged to his landlord's son. This was close to where all three bodies had been discovered. Leeds detectives also discovered that, on his regular deliveries to Morley, Black often slept in his van overnight in the premises to which he delivered, which was close to Sarah Harper's home.\n\nInvestigators learned that Poster, Dispatch and Storage Ltd had accounts with several oil companies, which allowed their drivers to buy fuel. With the cooperation of the companies, investigators obtained seven million archived microfiched credit card slips detailing fuel purchases paid via this method at every one of their nationwide premises between 1982 and 1986. These were sent to the reopened incident room in Newcastle upon Tyne, where a team of officers searched them for Black's distinctive signature in an effort to pinpoint precisely when and where he had bought his fuel. This laborious task bore fruit: beginning in October 1990, investigators began to discover evidence proving the precise times Black had bought fuel at petrol stations close to each abduction site. In each instance, the time of purchase had been shortly before or after each child had been abducted.\n\nBy December 1990, the inquiry team decided they had sufficient circumstantial evidence to convince the Crown that there was a reasonable prospect of securing convictions against Black, although Clark was worried that the inquiry had not uncovered any forensic evidence to tie Black to the murders. All the evidence was submitted to the Crown in May 1991. In March 1992, Crown lawyers decided that the evidence was sufficient to try Black for the three murders and the attempted abduction of Teresa Thornhill. At a news conference held on 11 March, Hector Clark informed the press that \"criminal proceedings have been issued on the authority of the Crown Prosecution Service against Robert Black\".\n\nSeveral pretrial hearings were held between July 1992 and March 1994; these hearings saw Black's defence counsel submit contentions that their client be tried on each count separately, and that the prosecution not be allowed to demonstrate any similarity between the modus operandi of each offence at the upcoming trial. In the penultimate pretrial hearing, in January 1994, Judge William Macpherson ruled against defence motions to try Black on each charge separately, and also ruled to allow the prosecution to submit similar fact evidence between the cases. This ruling allowed the prosecution to make these similarities between the cases known, and to introduce into evidence Black's recent conviction for the abduction and sexual assault of the Stow schoolgirl. The prosecution was prohibited from introducing into evidence the transcript of the August 1990 interview between Black and detectives Watt and Orr.\n\nOn 13 April 1994, Robert Black stood trial before Judge William Macpherson at Moot Hall, Newcastle upon Tyne. Black pleaded not guilty to each of the 10 charges of kidnap, murder, attempted kidnap, and preventing the lawful burial of a body.\n\nIn his opening statement on behalf of the Crown, prosecutor John Milford QC described the case to be tried as \"every parent's nightmare\" as he outlined the prosecution's contention that Robert Black had committed the three child murders and the attempted abduction, and the similarities between these offences and the 1990 abduction and sexual assault of the Stow schoolgirl for which Black was already serving a life sentence. Milford then described the circumstances of each abduction and murder for the jury; contending that each victim had remained alive in Black's van for several hours before her murder, and that each had been killed near the location Black had disposed of her body. In the latter stages of this five-hour opening statement, Milford contended that Black had kidnapped each victim for his own sexual gratification, and pointed out Black's extensive record of child sexual abuse and the paraphernalia discovered in his vehicle and at his London address. Milford closed his speech by stating that the petrol receipts and travel records would prove Black had been at all the abduction, attempted abduction and body recovery sites on the dates in question.\n\nOn the second day of the trial, the prosecution began to introduce witnesses, witness statements, circumstantial evidence, and forensic testimony. This saw witnesses describing the circumstances surrounding the abduction and subsequent discovery of each victim, and investigators describing the evidence uncovered of Black's movements on the dates of each abduction, the attempted abduction of Teresa Thornhill, and the kidnapping and assault of the Stow schoolgirl. Contemporary statements made by the mother of each murder victim at the time of her child's abduction were also read to the court, alongside testimony from the pathologists who had examined the bodies. Upon hearing the details of the kidnaps and murders, relatives of the three murder victims wept openly in court. Black rarely displayed any interest throughout the proceedings, typically remaining expressionless.\n\nSeveral of these initial witnesses were subjected to intense cross-examination by Black's defence counsel, Ronald Thwaites, upon issues such as memory accuracy and minor discrepancies between times logged in record books at a firm to which Black had made a delivery on the date of Susan Maxwell's disappearance and those of petrol receipts introduced as evidence (this discrepancy was proven to be an administrative error), and earlier police statements given by the witnesses. Most witnesses maintained their insistence of the accuracy and honesty of their testimony.\n\nOne of the witnesses cross-examined on the third day of the trial was James Fraser, a forensic scientist, who had examined more than 300 items recovered from Black's van and his London lodgings; Fraser conceded that in over 1,800 microscopic comparisons, no forensic link had been established between Black and the three victims. In direct re-examination by John Milford, Fraser said that the interval between the offences and Black's arrest, and the fact Black had only bought the van in which he was arrested in 1986, would make establishing a forensic link between the three murders unlikely.\n\nThe final prosecution witnesses to testify were detectives from the police forces involved in the manhunt; they testified on 29 April, and much of their testimony described the scope of the investigation while Black had been at large, and the painstaking inquiries to gather evidence. The final detective to testify was Hector Clark, who testified that Black's name had never been entered into the HOLMES database during the manhunt due to his conviction pre-dating the timescale of those judged to warrant further investigation. Clark further explained he could not recall any other cases where children had been abducted, killed and their bodies transported considerable distances, before stating: \"I don't believe there has been a bigger crime investigation in the United Kingdom, ever.\"\n\nOn 4 May, Ronald Thwaites began to outline his case in defence of Black. Thwaites reminded the jury the police had been unsuccessfully investigating these crimes for eight years before Black's 1990 arrest and conviction for the Stow abduction, and asserted that the investigators had seized on this case in an attempt to scapegoat his client to appease their feelings of \"frustration and failure\", and in an effort to restore broken reputations. Thwaites claimed that, although the paraphernalia introduced into evidence attested to his client's admitted obsession with paedophilic material, no direct evidence existed to prove Black had progressed from molester to murderer. Describing his decision not to permit Black to testify on his own behalf in relation to the petrol receipts and travel records, Thwaites informed the jury: \"No man can be expected to remember the ordinary daily routine of his life going back many years.\" Thwaites then began to introduce witnesses to testify on behalf of the defence, and continued to do so until 10 May.\n\nTo support Thwaites' contention that the three murders were not part of a series and had not been committed by Black, much of the testimony delivered by the defence witnesses referred to sightings of alternative suspects and suspicious vehicles near each abduction. The evidence delivered by these eyewitnesses contradicted that of those who had earlier testified on behalf of the prosecution. For example, Thomas Ball testified that on the date of Susan Maxwell's abduction, he had observed a girl matching her description striking a maroon Triumph saloon with a tennis racket. This car had contained at least two men, and the location Ball had seen this incident was very close to the site of Maxwell's abduction.\n\nOn 12 May, both counsels delivered their closing arguments to the jury. Prosecutor John Milford argued first; opening his final address to the jury by describing the circumstances of Black's 1990 arrest and recounting the extensive circumstantial evidence presented throughout the trial, and emphasising the fact no physical evidence existed due to the interval between the offences and Black's arrest. In reference to the defence argument that Black's close proximity to each of the abduction and body disposal sites of the dates in question was mere coincidence, Milford stated that if this defence contention were true, it would be \"the coincidence to end all coincidences\". Milford then requested that the jury reach a guilty verdict.\n\nThwaites delivered his closing arguments on behalf of the defence. He began by asking the jury: \"Where is the jury that will acquit a pervert of multiple murder?\" before describing his client as someone against whom ample prejudice existed, but no hard evidence. Thwaites pressed upon the jury the necessity to differentiate between a child sex pervert and an alleged child killer, before attacking the credibility of several prosecution witnesses, and pouring particular scorn upon the nationwide manhunt, stating: \"The police have become exhausted in not finding anyone; the public are clamouring for a result. What good are you if you can't catch a child killer? Is he [Black] their salvation, or a convenient, expendable scapegoat?\" Thwaites then referred to defence witness testimony which indicated someone else had committed the three murders, before resting his case.\n\nJudge Macpherson delivered his final instructions to the jury on 16 May and the following morning. In his final address, Judge Macpherson implored the jury to discard any emotion or personal distaste for Black's extensive history of sexual offences against children when considering their verdict, and not to prejudge his guilt because of his 1990 conviction for the abduction and sexual assault of the Stow schoolgirl. Judge Macpherson further directed the jury to instead focus on the evidence presented at the trial and decide whether the \"interlocking similarities\" between the cases presented were sufficient to convince them of Black's guilt, before reminding them that any conclusions of guilt on one charge must not determine guilt on the remaining nine charges they were to debate. The jury then received strict instructions against reading newspapers, watching television or making any telephone calls, before retiring to consider their verdict. These deliberations continued for two days.\n\nOn 19 May, the jury found Black guilty of three counts of kidnapping, three counts of murder, three counts of preventing the lawful burial of a body and—in relation to Teresa Thornhill—one count of attempted abduction. He was sentenced to a term of life imprisonment for each of these counts, with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 35 years on each of the three murder charges. These life sentences were to be served concurrently. Passing sentence, Judge Macpherson described Black as being the perpetrator of \"offences which are unlikely ever to be forgotten and which represent a man at his most vile\".\n\nBlack remained unmoved upon receipt of this sentence, but as he prepared to leave the dock, he turned to the detectives from the various forces present at his sentencing who, since 1982, had been involved in his manhunt and proclaimed, \"Tremendous. Well done, boys.\" This statement caused several of the detectives to weep. Black was then taken to Wakefield prison, to begin his sentence in the segregation unit, as a Category A prisoner.\n\nImmediately following these convictions, the more than 20 detectives involved in the manhunt who had been present at his sentencing addressed the press assembled outside Moot Hall, with Hector Clark stating: \"The tragedy is these three beautiful children who should never have died. Black is the most evil of characters and I hope there is not now or ever another one like him.\" When asked his personal feelings towards Robert Black, Clark stated: \"Black is a man of the most evil kind, but no longer important to me. I care not about him.\"\n\nOn 15 December 2009, Black was served with a summons to attend trial in Northern Ireland for the 1981 murder of Jennifer Cardy. He was charged the following day.\n\nBlack's trial for the sexual assault and murder of Jennifer Cardy began at Armagh Crown Court on 22 September 2011. He was tried before Judge Ronald Weatherup, and acknowledged that he may have been in Northern Ireland on the date of Cardy's abduction, but pleaded not guilty to the charges.\n\nCircumstantial evidence attesting to Black's guilt of Cardy's murder had been obtained by Northern Ireland investigators searching through petrol receipts—560,000 in total—stored in his former employer's archives to ascertain Black's whereabouts on the dates surrounding the abduction and murder. Black's trial began with the prosecutor, Toby Hedworth, stating that the discovery of Black's signature upon these receipts was as good as signing his own confession.\n\nOn the second day of the trial, prosecutors introduced into evidence petrol receipts proving he had been near Ballinderry on the date of her abduction. Further evidence presented at trial included a salary ledger proving Black had been paid £50, which had only been given to drivers from his firm who made deliveries to Northern Ireland, and an order book confirming a delivery of billboard posters had been due near Ballinderry on the date of the abduction. Black was one of only two employees of Poster Dispatch and Storage Ltd willing to travel to Northern Ireland due to the Troubles, and travel records from all other drivers employed at this firm eliminated them from any culpability on the date of Cardy's abduction. The records also showed that, on the night of the abduction, Black had boarded an overnight ferry from Northern Ireland to Liverpool, before refuelling his van at Coventry the following day, en route to London.\n\nIn an effort to discredit the prosecution's contention that Black had been making deliveries to Ireland, Black's defence counsel, David Spens, suggested on the fourth day of the trial the Coventry petrol receipt could only indicate Black had been making deliveries to Coventry on the day after Cardy's murder; in rebuttal, Toby Hedworth questioned a colleague of Black's, who confirmed the firm did not make deliveries to Coventry in the early 1980s.\n\nTo further support the prosecution's contention that Cardy's murder had been committed by Black, Nathaniel Cary, a forensic pathologist, testified on the 11th day of the trial to the similarities between Cardy's abduction and murder, and that of Sarah Harper. Cary testified that the circumstances of the two girls' deaths were \"remarkably similar\", and that the injuries inflicted upon both girls' bodies strongly suggested both girls had been alive, albeit likely unconscious, when their bodies had been placed in water.\n\nBlack's second murder trial lasted six weeks, and the jury deliberated for four hours before delivering their verdict. On 27 October, he was found guilty of Cardy's abduction, sexual assault, and murder. Black was given a further life sentence, with hearings deferred on the minimum term to be served.\n\nOn 8 December, Judge Weatherup imposed a minimum term of 25 years. Weatherup informed Black: \"Your crime was particularly serious; you subjected a vulnerable child to unpardonable terror and took away her life.\" Prior to his final sentencing for this fourth murder, Black's defence lawyer, David Spens, had informed the court that no plea for mercy could be offered for his client; stating the case in question was \"one of those rare cases in which there is no mitigation, and so I propose to say nothing in that regard.\"\n\nAt his sentencing, Black was informed that he would be at least 89 before he would be considered for release.\n\nPolice believe that Black had committed more murders than the four for which he was convicted, with senior detectives believing the true number to be at least eight. In July 1994, a meeting was convened between senior detectives from the six police forces involved in the nationwide manhunt for Black, and representatives from other UK forces with unsolved missing child and child murder cases. The meeting assessed the evidence investigators had assembled to establish whether Black had killed other children.\n\nIn 2008, the Crown Prosecution Service stated that insufficient evidence existed to charge Black with any further murders.\n\nBlack has been linked to 13 further child murders and disappearances across the UK, Ireland, and continental Europe committed between 1969 and 1987.\n\n8 April 1969: April Fabb (13). Fabb was last seen cycling from Metton towards her sister's home in Roughton, Norfolk. Her bicycle was found in a field on the route she had taken, but her body has never been found.\n\n21 May 1973: Christine Markham (9). A Scunthorpe schoolgirl last seen walking to school. Her body has never been found. Black was questioned about potential involvement in her abduction in 2004.\n\n19 August 1978: Genette Tate (13). Abducted while delivering newspapers in Aylesbeare, Devon. Her bicycle was found in a country lane by two girls she had spoken to minutes before, but her body has never been found. Black made numerous deliveries of posters to the south-west of England in 1978. At the time of Black's death, the Devon and Cornwall Police were due to submit a fresh file to the Crown Prosecution Service, seeking formal abduction and murder charges in relation to this case.\n\n28 July 1979: Suzanne Lawrence (14). Lawrence was last seen leaving her sister's home in Harold Hill, northeast London. Although her body has never been found, Lawrence's name was added to a list of Black's possible victims in July 1994.\n\n16 June 1980: Patricia Morris (14). Disappeared from the grounds of her comprehensive school; her fully clothed body was found in Hounslow Heath two days after her disappearance. She had been strangled with a ligature.\n\n4 November 1981: Pamela Hastie (16). Her bludgeoned and strangled body was found in Johnstone, Renfrewshire, in November 1981. One eyewitness was adamant he had seen a man matching Black's description running from the crime scene, but police do not believe Black was near Renfrewshire at the time of Hastie's murder.\n\n18 March 1977: Mary Boyle (6). A Kincasslagh schoolgirl who disappeared while visiting her grandparents in Ballyshannon. Black was in County Donegal at the time of her disappearance. Her body has never been found.\n\n20 June 1985: Silke Garben (10). Garben was a Detmold schoolgirl who disappeared on her way to a dental appointment. Her body was found in a stream the day after her disappearance; she had been sexually assaulted and strangled. Black is known to have made a delivery of posters to a British Army base close to Garben's home on the date of her disappearance.\n\n5 August 1986: Cheryl Morriën (7). Morriën disappeared as she walked to her friend's home in the Dutch city of IJmuiden. Her body has never been found. Black made regular trips to nearby Amsterdam to buy child pornography.\n\n5 May 1987: Virginie Delmas (10). Abducted from Neuilly-sur-Marne on 5 May 1987. Her nude body was found in a Paris orchard on 9 October. Delmas had been strangled; the extent of decomposition prevented the pathologist determining whether she had been raped before death. Black made several deliveries in and around Paris on the date of Delmas's disappearance.\n\n30 May 1987: Hemma Greedharry (10). Discovered in the Paris suburb of Malakoff two hours after she was last seen alive. She had been raped and strangled. Black is known to have regularly travelled upon the road where Greedharry's body was found when making deliveries in northern France.\n\n3 June 1987: Perrine Vigneron (7). Vigneron disappeared on her way to buy a Mother's Day card in Bouleurs en route to attending a pottery course; her strangled body was discovered in a rapeseed field in Chelles on 27 June. A white van had been seen in Bouleurs on the day of Vigneron's disappearance.\n\n27 June 1987: Sabine Dumont (9). A Paris schoolgirl last seen alive in Bièvres on 27 June. Her strangled and sexually assaulted body was found the following day in the commune of Vauhallan. Black was named as a prime suspect in Dumont's murder in 2011.\n\nThe eight-year, nationwide inquiry which culminated in the 1990 arrest of Robert Black was one of the longest, most exhaustive and costly British murder investigations of the 20th century. By the time investigators had amassed sufficient evidence to convince the Crown to instigate criminal proceedings against Black for the three child murders and the attempted abduction of Thornhill, the dossier they had assembled was estimated to weigh 22 tonnes. The total cost of the inquiry is estimated to be £12 million.\n\nRobert Black appealed against his 1994 convictions. His appeal was heard before Lord Taylor at the Court of Appeal on 20 February 1995. Black contended he had been denied a fair trial due to details of his 1990 abduction and sexual assault charges being introduced as similar fact evidence at his trial, a ruling his defence counsel had fundamentally objected to. Black also contended that the final instructions delivered to the jury by Judge Macpherson had been unbalanced. Black's appeal hearing had been expected to last three days, but at the end of the first day, Lord Taylor refused leave to appeal the conviction on the grounds that Black's trial had been fair, and that none of his contentions could be substantiated.\n\nIn July 1995, Black was attacked in his cell at Wakefield prison by two fellow inmates, who threw boiling water mixed with sugar over him, bludgeoned him with a table leg, then stabbed him in the back and neck with an improvised knife. Black sustained superficial wounds, burns and bruising in this attack; his attackers were jailed for three further years after admitting wounding Black with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.\n\nBlack never admitted culpability in any of the murders of which he was convicted or suspected, and refused to cooperate with investigators, in spite of having little hope of ever being freed. According to Dr Ray Wyre, a pioneer in the treatment of sex offenders who conducted several interviews with Black between 1990 and 1993, the prime reason for this was an issue of control for Black. Wyre summarised the psychology behind Black's refusal to cooperate with investigators: He's the sort of person for whom it's all about power and control. Having information about what he's done gives him power. He has no desire to ease his conscience, and he's not going to give up the one thing that gives him power over the pain that his victims' families are suffering. The closest Black ever came to confessing to any of his crimes was in response to a question put to him shortly before his 1994 murder trial by Wyre. Wyre had asked Black why he never denied any of the charges brought against him. According to Wyre, Black had replied to this question with the words, \"Because I couldn't.\"\n\nBlack died from a heart attack in HMP Maghaberry on 12 January 2016. His body was cremated at Roselawn Crematorium, outside Belfast, on 29 January. No family or friends were present at this service. In this short service, the Presbyterian chaplain of HMP Maghaberry, the Reverend Rodney Cameron, read a section of Psalm 90. Black's ashes were scattered at sea in February 2016.\n\nSeveral television programmes have been made about Black.\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8678405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8678405", "title": "Second death", "text": "Second death\n\nThe second death is an eschatological concept in Judaism and Christianity, related to punishment after a first, natural death.\n\nAlthough the term is not found in the Hebrew Bible, Sysling, in his study (1996) of \"Teḥiyyat ha-metim\" (Hebrew; \"resurrection of the dead\") in the Palestinian Targums, identifies a consistent usage of the term \"second death\" in texts of the Second Temple period and early rabbinical writings. In most cases, the \"second death\" is identical with the judgment, following resurrection, in Gehinnom at the Last Day.\n\nIn Targum Neofiti (Neof.) and the fragments (FTP and FTV), the \"second death\" is the death that the wicked die.\n\nTargum Isaiah has three occurrences. The first is 22:14 where the Aramaic paraphrases the Hebrew as \"This sin will not be forgiven you until you die the second death.\"\n\nTargum Jeremiah 51:17 has the Aramaic \"they shall die the second death and not live in the world to come\", which appears to depart from the other Targum uses in not being explicit that the second death is \"after\" resurrection but may instead be an exclusion from resurrection.\n\nThe majority reading of Targum Psalm 49:11 has the Aramaic translation \"For the wise see that the evildoers are judged in Gehinnom\". However, several manuscripts, including Paris No.10, Montefiore No.7, and Targum of Salomos 113 have the variant Aramaic translation \"He sees men wise in wickedness, who die a second death, and are judged in Gehinnom\".\n\nDavid Kimhi (Toulouse, c.1160-Narbonne, 1235) considered the phrase to mean \"the death of the soul in the world\".\n\nThe main occurrences of the term \"second death\" in Christianity are in the series of uses in Revelation, 2:11, 20:6, 20:14 and 21:8. There are different interpretations as to the meaning of the term \"second death\".\n\nOne passage that describes the second death can be found in the New Testament, the book of Revelation 21:8: \"The cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile, the murderers, the sexually immoral, those who practice magic arts, the idolaters and all liars – their place will be in the fiery lake of burning sulfur. This is the second death\".\n\nEssentially, when people are saved, they die only an earthly death, which the Bible refers to on several occasions as sleep. The saved are not subject to the second death. When unsaved people die, they will await the judgement, when they will be resurrected to punishment and be cast into the lake of fire for all eternity. Though that view is held by most Christians, a few Christians do not believe that, and there are different beliefs among different denominations and factions.\n\nAlthough most Christians who believe in the immortality of the soul regard the second death to mean eternal suffering or torment in a place called the lake of fire, a few Christians believe in the immortality of the soul but teach universal salvation in which God will save everyone at some later time. Mortalists, including some Anglicans, some Lutherans, all Seventh-day Adventists, and others, oppose the idea of eternal suffering but believe that the second death is an actual second death and that the soul perishes and will be annihilated after the final judgment.\n\n"}
{"id": "40193909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40193909", "title": "Southern White Rhino (\"Bull\")", "text": "Southern White Rhino (\"Bull\")\n\nThe Southern white rhino (\"Bull\") is a famous conservation success story for his species. Southern white rhinos were thought to be extinct in the late 1800s until a small herd was discovered. Since then, rhinos like Bull have been part of various international breeding programs. As a result, their population is now close to 20,000, classifying them as Near Threatened and making them the only species of rhinoceros that is not endangered.\n\nBull was born in South Africa and was eventually moved to North America, where he lived in the San Diego Wild Animal Park and Toronto Zoo until his death in 2008. He can now be seen in the Schad Gallery of Biodiversity in the Royal Ontario Museum (ROM) in Toronto as part of the museum's collection of Iconic Objects.\n\nBull was born in the wild in South Africa, and for this reason, his age can only be estimated. However, after undergoing a series of examinations, specialists were able to estimate his age to be around 9–10 years at the time of his capture, so his birth year was recorded to be 1963. Although white rhinos are protected in South Africa, Bull and many others were taken into captivity under a breeding program in order to ensure the survival of the species should an unexpected disaster befall the main population.\n\nAt the time of the rhino’s capture, he was named “Mtondo”, which translates from Zulu as a term for male reproductive organs.\n\nShortly after his capture, Mtondo was moved to different locations across North America, where he was studied as part of a conservation effort. His first North American home was the San Diego Wild Animal Park Zoo. He remained at this location until 1974, when he was transferred to the Toronto Zoo in Ontario, Canada.\n\nFollowing his time in the San Diego Wild Animal Park, the rhino spent the remainder of his life in the Toronto Zoo, with Ron Gilmore acting as his keeper.\n\nUpon arriving at the Toronto Zoo, Mtondo’s name was officially changed to “Bull”. Although unconfirmed, it is believed that this was due to the sexual nature of the previous name, which was deemed unfitting.\n\nThroughout his life, Bull was found to be gentle towards humans and would approach the front of his enclosure, allowing zoo visitors to pet him. He became especially close with his keeper, Gilmore, and would respond to the sound of his voice. On two separate occasions, faults were discovered in Bull's enclosure, but instead of fleeing, the rhino could be calmly called over by his keeper. Around other rhinos, however, Bull was often aggressive. He was known to hit other rhinos with his horns if provoked.\n\nBull was fed three meals a day, eating 5-10 lbs of hay at breakfast and lunch and 30 lbs of hay at dinner along with 15-20 lbs of compressed grains, vegetables and vitamins. He would occasionally enjoy treats such as apples, pears and sweet oats with bran and molasses.\n\nLiving in a colder Canadian climate meant that Bull’s daily activities varied with the seasons. During the warm summer months, he would be showered after breakfast, something he greatly enjoyed, and would then proceed to the exhibit area of his enclosure either on his own or in the company of a number of female rhinos. During colder weather, if Bull were to proceed outside, he wouldn't be showered, as this would have lowered his body temperature too significantly. Once temperatures began to fall below freezing, Bull was to remain indoors. Although he was given plastic balls to play with, he often slept more during the winter.\n\nDuring his time at the Toronto Zoo, Bull sired three children. The first was a female, Shaboola, in 1979. She remained in the Toronto Zoo, but was kept in a separate enclosure from her father to prevent interbreeding. The second was Abeeku, a male, in 1985, who was sent to live in Germany. The last was another male in 1990, Atu, who was sold to a game park in Hemmingford, Quebec.\n\nAlthough Bull never suffered any major illnesses throughout his life, he became severely arthritic in 2008. At this point, he began having difficulties supporting his own weight while standing. After a long life of 45 years, he was euthanized in February.\n\nFollowing Bull's death, the Toronto Zoo contacted the ROM as to enquire into whether the museum was interested in taking on the rhino as an exhibit. At this time, the Schad Gallery of Biodiversity was in need of a Life in Crisis centrepiece. After museum staff assessed transportation options to determine that it was physically possible to transport the rhino into the second-floor gallery and obtained a grant from the Louise Hawley Stone Charitable Trust, they accepted Bull into their collection.\n\nOnce in possession of Bull, the ROM contacted Len Murphy of Pine Ridge Taxidermy in Baltimore, Maryland to have him stuffed. Bull was then shipped to the facility via flatbed truck. Under Murphy's care, Bull's outer skin was removed and re-cast with a mould. As Murphy had been to the Toronto Zoo to study Bull during his lifetime, he was able to recreate the animal's exact features and wrinkles.\n\nThe entire taxidermy process took over a year to completed and involved several steps. This began with the removal of the hide, which was then cured with salt and drained. It was then shaved with a double-handed knife, re-salted and hung to dry. At this point, the hide weighed 700 lbs and was sent to soak in a 50-gallon drum of formic acid before being shaven once more to reach a thickness of only 1/16 inches. It was then placed in formic acid once more and then oiled. The final weight of the hide was 53 lbs.\n\nSeveral layers of artificial materials were then used to fill the hide. First, a Styrofoam core was construct and coated in papier-mâché, to increase its size. Modelling clay was used to shape Bull’s muscles. His horns, which grew to be quite large due to his age, were too damaged to use, so fibreglass recreations were constructed.\n\nThe completed rhino was officially revealed at the ROM in May 2009 at a special gala in his honour. Here, he became one of the museum’s first Iconic Objects and can still be found in the Schad Gallery of Biodiversity.\n\nWhile his bones were separated from the hide during the taxidermy process, they are also kept under the ROM's care and are now part of the museum's skeleton collection.\n"}
{"id": "45481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45481", "title": "Soylent Green", "text": "Soylent Green\n\nSoylent Green is a 1973 American dystopian science fiction thriller film directed by Richard Fleischer and starring Charlton Heston and Leigh Taylor-Young. Edward G. Robinson appears in his final film. Loosely based on the 1966 science fiction novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\" by Harry Harrison, it combines both police procedural and science fiction genres; the investigation into the murder of a wealthy businessman and a dystopian future of dying oceans and year-round humidity due to the greenhouse effect, resulting in suffering from pollution, poverty, overpopulation, euthanasia and depleted resources.\n\nIn 1973 it won the Nebula Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and the Saturn Award for Best Science Fiction Film.\n\nThe 20th century's industrialization led to overcrowding, pollution and global warming due to the greenhouse effect. In 2022, 40 million people live in New York City; housing is dilapidated; homeless people fill the streets; many are unemployed; those few with jobs are only barely scraping by and food and working technology are scarce with most of the population surviving on rations produced by the Soylent Corporation. Their latest product is Soylent Green, a green wafer advertised to contain \"high-energy plankton\" from the oceans of the world, more nutritious and palatable than its predecessors \"Red\" and \"Yellow\" but in short supply.\n\nNew York City Police Department detective Frank Thorn lives with his aged friend and police analyst, Solomon \"Sol\" Roth. Roth remembers life before its current state and often talks nostalgically. He is well-educated and has a small library of reference materials to assist Thorn. While investigating the murder of William R. Simonson, a member of the wealthy elite, Thorn questions a concubine, Shirl, and Simonson's bodyguard, Tab Fielding, who was escorting Shirl when the murder took place. Thorn searches Simonson's apartment for clues and helps himself to Simonson's whisky, fresh produce, and beef.\n\nThorn gives Roth both volumes of the classified Soylent Oceanographic Survey Report he found in Simonson's apartment. Roth's research reveals Simonson was a member of the board of Soylent. Thorn tells his lieutenant, Hatcher, that he suspects an assassination: nothing had been stolen from the apartment, security was absent, and the perpetrator used a meat hook instead of a gun to make it look like Simonson was killed in a burglary. Thorn, suspecting Fielding as one of Simonson's murderers, visits Fielding's apartment and interrogates Fielding's concubine, Martha, helping himself to a teaspoon of strawberry jam, later identified by Roth as too great a luxury for the concubine of a bodyguard to afford. Shirl reveals that Simonson became troubled in the days before his death. Thorn questions a Catholic priest that Simonson visited; the priest first fails to remember Simonson and is then unable to describe the confession. Fielding later murders the priest.\n\nGovernor Santini closes the investigation, but Thorn ignores this and the Soylent Corporation dispatches Simonson's murderer to kill Thorn. He tracks Thorn to a ration distribution center, where police officers are providing security. When the Soylent Green there is exhausted, the crowd riots. The assassin attempts to kill Thorn in the confusion but is crushed by a \"scoop\" crowd-dispersion vehicle. In retaliation, Thorn assaults and threatens both Fielding and Martha; warning Fielding and his accomplices not to follow him and returning to Shirl, with whom he has established a sexual relationship.\n\nRoth takes Soylent's oceanographic reports to a group of researchers, who agree that the oceans no longer produce the plankton from which Soylent Green is reputedly made, and infer that it is produced from human remains, the only conceivable supply of protein matching the known production. They also deduce that Simonson was murdered by the corporation because he had found this out from the reports and his influence inside the corporation. Roth is so disgusted with his degraded life in a degraded world that he decides to \"return to the home of the God\" and seeks assisted suicide at a government clinic.\n\nThorn rushes to stop him, but arrives too late. Roth is mesmerized by the euthanasia process' visual and musical montage – extinct forests, wild animals, rivers and ocean life. Before dying, he tells Thorn his discovery and begs him to expose the truth. Thorn boards a human disposal truck to the disposal center, where he sees the human corpses converted into Soylent Green, but is spotted and has to flee.\n\nReturning to make his report, he is ambushed by Fielding and others. In the ensuing firefight, Thorn kills his attackers but is himself wounded. When Hatcher arrives, he tells him what he has discovered and urges him to tell the researchers so that they can make a case against Soylent and to spread the truth about Soylent Green. Hatcher promises that he will. Thorn is taken away by paramedics, shouting out: \"Soylent Green is people!\"\n\nThe screenplay was based on Harry Harrison's novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\" (1966), which is set in the year 1999 with the theme of overpopulation and overuse of resources leading to increasing poverty, food shortages, and social disorder. Harrison was contractually forbidden control over the screenplay and was not told during negotiations that Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was buying the film rights. He discussed the adaptation in \"Omni's Screen Flights/Screen Fantasies\" (1984), noting, the \"murder and chase sequences [and] the 'furniture' girls are not what the film is about — and are completely irrelevant\", and answered his own question, \"Am I pleased with the film? I would say fifty percent\".\n\nWhile the book refers to \"soylent steaks\", it makes no reference to \"Soylent Green\", the processed food rations depicted in the film. The book's title was not used for the movie on grounds that it might have confused audiences into thinking it a big-screen version of \"Make Room for Daddy\".\n\nThis was the 101st and last movie in which Edward G. Robinson appeared; he died of bladder cancer twelve days after the completion of filming, on January 26, 1973. Robinson had previously worked with Heston in \"The Ten Commandments\" (1956) and the make-up tests for \"Planet of the Apes\" (1968). In his book \"The Actor's Life: Journal 1956-1976\", Heston wrote \"He knew while we were shooting, though we did not, that he was terminally ill. He never missed an hour of work, nor was late to a call. He never was less than the consummate professional he had been all his life. I'm still haunted, though, by the knowledge that the very last scene he played in the picture, which he knew was the last day's acting he would ever do, was his death scene. I know why I was so overwhelmingly moved playing it with him.\"\n\nThe film's opening sequence, depicting America becoming more crowded with a series of archive photographs set to music, was created by filmmaker Charles Braverman. The \"going home\" score in Roth's death scene was conducted by Gerald Fried and consists of the main themes from Symphony No. 6 (\"Pathétique\") by Tchaikovsky, Symphony No. 6 (\"Pastoral\") by Beethoven, and the \"Peer Gynt Suite\" (\"Morning Mood\" and \"Åse's Death\") by Edvard Grieg.\n\nA custom cabinet unit of the early arcade game \"Computer Space\" was used in Soylent Green and is considered to be the first video game appearance in a movie.\n\nThe film was released April 19, 1973. \"Time\" called it \"intermittently interesting\", noting that \"Heston forsak[es] his granite stoicism for once\", and asserting the film \"will be most remembered for the last appearance of Edward G. Robinson... In a rueful irony, his death scene, in which he is hygienically dispatched with the help of piped-in light classical music and movies of rich fields flashed before him on a towering screen, is the best in the film.\" \"New York Times\" critic A.H. Weiler wrote \"\"Soylent Green\" projects essentially simple, muscular melodrama a good deal more effectively than it does the potential of man's seemingly witless destruction of the Earth's resources\"; Weiler concludes \"Richard Fleischer's direction stresses action, not nuances of meaning or characterization. Mr. Robinson is pitiably natural as the realistic, sensitive oldster facing the futility of living in dying surroundings. But Mr. Heston is simply a rough cop chasing standard bad guys. Their 21st-century New York occasionally is frightening but it is rarely convincingly real.\"\n\nAs of June 2017, \"Soylent Green\" has a 71% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 35 reviews.\n\n\nAmerican Film Institute Lists\n\n\"Soylent Green\" was released on Capacitance Electronic Disc by MGM/CBS Home Video and later on laserdisc by MGM/UA in 1992 (, ). In November 2007, Warner Home Video released the film on DVD concurrent with the DVD releases of two other science fiction films; \"Logan's Run\" (1976) and \"Outland\" (1981). A Blu-ray Disc release followed on March 29, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1169181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169181", "title": "Spectacled bear", "text": "Spectacled bear\n\nThe spectacled bear (\"Tremarctos ornatus\"), also known as the Andean bear or Andean short-faced bear and locally as \"jukumari\" (Aymara), \"ukumari\" (Quechua) or \"ukuku\", is the last remaining short-faced bear (subfamily Tremarctinae). Its closest relatives are the extinct Florida spectacled bear, and the giant short-faced bears of the Middle Pleistocene to Late Pleistocene age (Arctodus and Arctotherium). Spectacled bears are the only surviving species of bear native to South America, and the only surviving member of the subfamily Tremarctinae. The species is classified as Vulnerable by the IUCN because of habitat loss.\n\nThe spectacled bear is the only bear native to South America and is the largest land carnivoran on that part of the continent, although as little as 5% of its diet is composed of meat. South America's largest obligate carnivorous mammal is the jaguar (\"Panthera onca\"). Among South America's extant, native land animals, only the Baird's tapir (\"Tapirus bairdii\"), South American tapir (\"T. terrestris\") and mountain tapir (\"T. pinchaque\") are heavier than this species. The spectacled bear is a mid-sized species of bear. Overall, its fur is blackish in color, though bears may vary from jet black to dark brown and to even a reddish hue. The species typically has distinctive beige or ginger-coloured markings across its face and upper chest, though not all spectacled bears have \"spectacle\" markings. The pattern and extent of pale markings are slightly different on each individual bear, and bears can be readily distinguished by this. Males are a third larger than females in dimensions and sometimes twice their weight. Males can weigh from , and females can weigh from . Head-and-body length can range from , though mature males do not measure less than . On average males weigh about and females average about , thus it rivals the polar bear for the most sexually dimorphic modern bear. A male in captivity that was considered obese weighed . The tail is a mere in length, and the shoulder height is from . Compared to other living bears, this species has a more rounded face with a relatively short and broad snout. In some extinct species of the Tremarctinae subfamily, this facial structure has been thought to be an adaptation to a largely carnivorous diet, despite the modern spectacled bears' herbivorous dietary preferences.\n\nDespite some rare spilling-over into eastern Panama, spectacled bears are mostly restricted to certain areas of northern and western South America. They can range in western Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, western Bolivia, and northwestern Argentina. The species is found almost entirely in the Andes Mountains. Before spectacled bear populations became fragmented during the last 500 years, the species had a reputation for being adaptable, as it is found in a wide variety of habitats and altitudes throughout its range, including cloud forests, high-altitude grasslands, dry forests and scrub deserts. A single spectacled bear population on the border of Peru and Ecuador inhabited as great a range of habitat types as the world's brown bears (\"Ursus arctos\") now occupy. The best habitats for spectacled bears are humid to very humid montane forests. These cloud forests typically occupy a elevational band between depending on latitude. Generally, the wetter these forests are the more food species there are that can support bears. Occasionally, they may reach altitudes as low as , but are not typically found below in the foothills. They can even range up to the mountain snow line at over in elevation.\n\n\"Tremarctos ornatus\" is commonly referred to in English as the \"spectacled bear\", a reference to the light colouring on its chest, neck and face, which may resemble eyeglasses in some individuals, or the \"Andean bear\" for its distribution along the Andes.\n\nThe root \"trem\"- comes from a Greek word meaning \"hole;\" \"arctos\" is the Greek word for \"bear.\" \"Tremarctos\" is a reference to an unusual hole on the animal's humerus. \"Ornatus\", Latin for \"decorated\", is a reference to the markings that give the bear its common English name.\n\nSpectacled bears are one of four extant bear species that are habitually arboreal, alongside the American black bear (\"Ursus americanus\") and Asian black bear (\"U. thibetanus\"), and the sun bear (\"Helarctos malayanus\"). In Andean cloud forests, spectacled bears may be active both during the day and night, but in Peruvian desert are reported to bed down under vegetative cover during the day. Their continued survival alongside humans has depended mostly on their ability to climb even the tallest trees of the Andes. They usually retreat from the presence of humans, often by climbing trees. Once up a tree, they may often build a platform, perhaps to aid in concealment, as well as to rest and store food on. Although spectacled bears are solitary and tend to isolate themselves from one another to avoid competition, they are not territorial. They have even been recorded to feed in small groups at abundant food sources. Males are reported to have an average home range of during the wet season and during the dry season. Females are reported to have an average home range of in the wet season and in the dry season. When encountered by humans or other spectacled bears, they will react in a docile but cautious manner, unless the intruder is seen as a threat or a mother's cubs are endangered. Like other bears, mothers are protective of their young and have attacked poachers. There is only a single reported human death due to a spectacled bear, which occurred while it was being hunted and was already shot. The only predators of cubs include cougars (\"Puma concolor\") and possibly male spectacled bears. The bears \"appear to avoid\" jaguars, but the jaguar has considerably different habitat preferences, does not overlap with the spectacled bear in altitude on any specific mountain slope, and only overlaps slightly (900m) in altitude if the entire Cordillera Oriental is considered based upon unpublished data. Generally, the only threat against adult bears is humans. The longest-lived captive bear, at the National Zoo in Washington, DC, attained a lifespan of 36 years and 8 months. Lifespan in the wild has not been studied, but bears are believed to commonly live to 20 years or more unless they run afoul of humans.\n\nSpectacled bears are more herbivorous than most other bears; normally about 5 to 7% of their diets is meat. The most common foods for these bears include cactus, bromeliads (especially \"Puya\" ssp., \"Tillandsia\" ssp. and \"Guzmania\" ssp.) palm nuts, bamboo hearts, frailejon (\"Espeletia\" spp.), orchid bulbs, fallen fruit on the forest floor, and unopened palm leaves. They will also peel back tree bark to eat the nutritious second layer. Much of this vegetation is very tough to open or digest for most animals, and the bear is one of the few species in its range to exploit these food sources. The spectacled bear has the largest zygomatic mandibular muscles relative to its body size and the shortest muzzle of any living bear, slightly surpassing the relative size of the giant panda's (\"Ailuropoda melanoleuca\") morphology here. Not coincidentally, both species are known for extensively consuming tough, fibrous plants. Unlike the ursid bears whose fourth premolar has a more well-developed protoconid, an adaptation for shearing flesh, the fourth premolar of spectacled bears has blunt lophs with three pulp cavities instead of two, and can have three roots instead of the two that characterize ursid bears. The musculature and tooth characteristics are designed to support the stresses of grinding and crushing vegetation. Besides the giant panda, the spectacled bear is perhaps the most herbivorous living bear species. These bears also eat cultivated plants, such as sugarcane (\"Saccharum\" ssp.), honey (made by \"Apis\" ssp.), and corn (\"Zea mays\"), and have been known to travel above the tree line for berries and more ground-based bromeliads. When food is abundant, such as large corn fields, up to nine individual bears have fed close by each other in a single vicinity. Animal prey is usually quite small, but these bears can prey on adult deer, llama (\"Lama glama\") and domestic cattle (\"Bos primigenius taurus\") and horses (\"Equus ferus caballus\"). A spectacled bear was captured on a remote video-monitor predaceously attacking and killing an adult mountain tapir perhaps nearly twice its own body mass, although adult horse and cattle killed by spectacled bears have been even heavier. Animal prey has included rabbits, mice, other rodents, birds at the nest (especially ground-nesting birds like tinamous or lapwings (\"Vanellus\" ssp.)), arthropods, and carrion. They are occasionally accused of killing livestock, especially cattle, and raiding corn fields. Allegedly, some bears become habituated to eating cattle, but the bears are actually more likely to eat cattle as carrion and some farmers may accidentally assume the spectacled bear killed them. Due to fear of loss of stock, bears may be killed on sight.\n\nMating may occur at almost any time of the year, but activity normally peaks in April and June, at the beginning of the wet season and corresponding with the peak of fruit-ripening. The mating pair are together for one to two weeks, during which they will copulate multiple times. Births usually occur in the dry season, between December and February. The gestation period is 5.5 to 8.5 months. From one to three cubs may be born, with four being rare and two being the average. The cubs are born with their eyes closed and weigh about each. Although this species does not give birth during the hibernation cycle as do northern bear species, births usually occur in a small den and the female waits until the cubs can see and walk before she leaves with them. The size of the litter has been positively correlated with both the weight of the female and the abundance and variety of food sources, particularly the degree to which fruiting is temporally predictable. The cubs often stay with the female for one year before striking out on their own. Breeding maturity is estimated to be reached at between four and seven years of age for both sexes, based solely on captive bears.\n\nThe Andean bear is threatened due to poaching and habitat loss. Poaching might have several reasons: trophy hunting, pet trade, religious or magical beliefs, natural products trade and conflicts with humans.\n\nTrophy hunting of Andean bear was apparently popular during the 19th century in some rural areas of Latin-America. In the costumbrist novel \"María\" by Colombian writer Jorge Isaacs, it was portrayed as an activity for privileged young men in Colombia. Tales regarding pet bears are also known from documents about the Ecuadorian aristocracy of that time. These threats might have diminished in recent years, but there are still isolated reports of captive bears confiscated in rural areas, which usually are unable to adapt again to their natural habitat and must be kept in zoological facilities.\n\nReligious or magical beliefs might be motivations for killing Andean bears, especially in places where bears are related to myths of disappearing women or kids, or where bear parts are related to traditional medicine or superstitions. In this context, the trade of bear parts might have commercial value. Their gall bladders appear to be valued in traditional Chinese medicine and can fetch a high price on the international market.\n\nConflicts with humans, however, appear to be the most common cause of poaching in large portions of its distribution. Andean Bears are often suspected of attacking cattle and raiding crops, and are killed for retaliation or in order to avoid further damages. It has been argued that attacks to cattle attributed to Andean bear are partly due to other predators. Raiding of crops can be frequent in areas with diminishing natural resources and extensive crops in former bear habitat, or when problematic individuals get used to human environments.\n\nThe intensity of poaching can create ecological traps for Andean bears. That is, if bears are attracted to areas of high habitat quality that are also high in poaching risk.\n\nPerhaps the most epidemic problem for the species is extensive logging and farming, which has led to habitat loss for the largely tree-dependent bears. As little as 5% of the original habitat in Andean cloud forest remains. Shortage of natural food sources might push bears to feed on crops or livestock, increasing the conflict that usually results in poaching of individual.\n\nImpacts of climate changes on bear habitat and food sources are not fully understood, but might have potential negative impact in the near future.\n\nThe IUCN has recommended the following courses for spectacled bear conservation: expansion and implementation of conservation land to prevent further development, greater species level research and monitoring of trends and threats, more concerted management of current conservation areas, stewardship programs for bears which engage local residents and the education of the public regarding spectacled bears, especially the benefits of conserving the species due to its effect on natural resources.\n\nNational governments, NGOs and rural communities have made different commitments to conservation of this species along its distribution. Conservation actions in Venezuela date back to the early 1990's, and have been based mostly on environmental education at several levels and the establishment of protected areas. The effort of several organizations has led to a widespread recognition of the andean bear in Venezuelan society, raising it as an emblematic species of conservation efforts in the country, and to the establishment of a 10-year action plan. Evidence about the effects of these actions in actually protecting the species (like reducing poaching risk, maintaining population viability, and reducing extinction risk) is still debattable and needs to be subject to further evaluation.\n\nLegislation against bears hunting exists, but is rarely enforced. This leads to persistence of the poaching problematic, even inside protected areas.\n\nIn 2006 the Spectacled Bear Conservation Society was established in Peru to study and protect the spectacled bear.\n\nThe children's character Paddington Bear is a spectacled bear, famously from \"darkest Peru\". In the documentary \"Paddington Bear: The Early Years\", British actor Stephen Fry encounters a spectacled bear called Yogi, which was kept in a small cage by Andean villagers. Fry bartered with the villagers to have the bear released, and it was taken to an enclosure in Machu Picchu. Fry's interest in the bears led to the follow-up documentary, \"Stephen Fry and the Spectacled Bears\", and he also wrote and published his experiences in \"Rescuing the Spectacled Bear: A Peruvian Diary\".\nIn the BBC television programme \"Serious Andes\", a team of eight teenagers built a prerelease enclosure for two spectacled bears before returning them to the wild. The BBC documentary \"Spectacled Bears: Shadows of the Forest\" looked at conservation issues and conflicts with farming communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32177451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32177451", "title": "Subroutine", "text": "Subroutine\n\nIn computer programming, a subroutine is a sequence of program instructions that performs a specific task, packaged as a unit. This unit can then be used in programs wherever that particular task should be performed.\n\nSubprograms may be defined within programs, or separately in libraries that can be used by many programs. In different programming languages, a subroutine may be called a procedure, a function, a routine, a method, or a subprogram. The generic term callable unit is sometimes used.\n\nThe name \"subprogram\" suggests a subroutine behaves in much the same way as a computer program that is used as one step in a larger program or another subprogram. A subroutine is often coded so that it can be started several times and from several places during one execution of the program, including from other subroutines, and then branch back (\"return\") to the next instruction after the \"call\", once the subroutine's task is done. While the idea of a subroutine was initially conceived by John Mauchly during his work on ENIAC, Maurice Wilkes, David Wheeler, and Stanley Gill are generally credited with the formal invention of this concept, which they termed a \"closed subroutine\", contrasted with an \"open subroutine\" or macro.\n\nSubroutines are a powerful programming tool, and the syntax of many programming languages includes support for writing and using them. Judicious use of subroutines (for example, through the structured programming approach) will often substantially reduce the cost of developing and maintaining a large program, while increasing its quality and reliability. Subroutines, often collected into libraries, are an important mechanism for sharing and trading software. The discipline of object-oriented programming is based on objects and methods (which are subroutines attached to these objects or object classes).\n\nIn the compiling method called threaded code, the executable program is basically a sequence of subroutine calls.\n\nThe content of a subroutine is its body, which is the piece of program code that is executed when the subroutine is called or invoked.\n\nA subroutine may be written so that it expects to obtain one or more data values from the calling program (to replace its parameters or formal parameters). The calling program provides actual values for these parameters, called arguments. Different programming languages may use different conventions for passing arguments:\nThe subroutine may return a computed value to its caller (its return value), or provide various result values or output parameters. Indeed, a common use of subroutines is to implement mathematical functions, in which the purpose of the subroutine is purely to compute one or more results whose values are entirely determined by the arguments passed to the subroutine. (Examples might include computing the logarithm of a number or the determinant of a matrix.)\n\nA subroutine call may also have side effects such as modifying data structures in a computer memory, reading from or writing to a peripheral device, creating a file, halting the program or the machine, or even delaying the program's execution for a specified time. A subprogram with side effects may return different results each time it is called, even if it is called with the same arguments. An example is a random number function, available in many languages, that returns a different pseudo-random number each time it is called. The widespread use of subroutines with side effects is a characteristic of imperative programming languages.\n\nA subroutine can be coded so that it may call itself recursively, at one or more places, to perform its task. This method allows direct implementation of functions defined by mathematical induction and recursive divide and conquer algorithms.\n\nA subroutine whose purpose is to compute one boolean-valued function (that is, to answer a yes/no question) is sometimes called a predicate. In logic programming languages, often all subroutines are called predicates, since they primarily determine success or failure.\n\nHigh-level programming languages usually include specific constructs to:\n\nSome programming languages, such as Pascal, Fortran, Ada and many dialects of BASIC, distinguish between functions or function subprograms, which provide an explicit return value to the calling program, and subroutines or procedures, which do not. In those languages, function calls are normally embedded in expressions (e.g., a codice_1 function may be called as codice_2). Procedure calls either behave syntactically as statements (e.g., a codice_3 procedure may be called as codice_4 or are explicitly invoked by a statement such as codice_5 or codice_6 (e.g. codice_7). Other languages, such as C and Lisp, do not distinguish between functions and subroutines.\n\nIn strictly functional programming languages such as Haskell, subprograms can have no side effects, which means that various internal states of the program will not change. Functions will always return the same result if repeatedly called with the same arguments. Such languages typically only support functions, since subroutines that do not return a value have no use unless they can cause a side effect.\n\nIn programming languages such as C, C++, and C#, subroutines may also simply be called functions, not to be confused with mathematical functions or functional programming, which are different concepts.\n\nA language's compiler will usually translate procedure calls and returns into machine instructions according to a well-defined calling convention, so that subroutines can be compiled separately from the programs that call them. The instruction sequences corresponding to call and return statements are called the procedure's prologue and epilogue.\n\nThe advantages of breaking a program into subroutines include:\n\nInvoking a subroutine (versus using in-line code) imposes some computational overhead in the call mechanism.\n\nA subroutine typically requires standard housekeeping code – both at entry to, and exit from, the function (function prologue and epilogue – usually saving general purpose registers and return address as a minimum).\n\nThe idea of a subroutine was worked out after computing machines had already existed for some time.\nThe arithmetic and conditional jump instructions were planned ahead of time and have changed relatively little; but the special instructions used for procedure calls have changed greatly over the years.\nThe earliest computers and microprocessors, such as the Manchester Baby and the RCA 1802, did not have a single subroutine call instruction.\nSubroutines could be implemented, but they required programmers to use the call sequence—a series of instructions—at each call site.\n\nGoldstine and von Neumann wrote a paper dated 16 August 1948 discussing the usefulness of subroutines.\n\nSome very early computers and microprocessors, such as the IBM 1620, the Intel 8008, and the PIC microcontrollers, have a single-instruction subroutine call that uses dedicated hardware stack to store return addresses—such hardware supports only a few levels of subroutine nesting, but can support recursive subroutines.\nMachines before the mid 1960s—such as the UNIVAC I, the PDP-1, and the IBM 1130—typically use a calling convention which saved the instruction counter in the first memory location of the called subroutine. This allows arbitrarily deep levels of subroutine nesting, but does not support recursive subroutines.\nThe PDP-11 (1970) is one of the first computers with a stack-pushing subroutine call instruction; this feature supports both arbitrarily deep subroutine nesting and also supports recursive subroutines.\n\nIn the very early assemblers, subroutine support was limited. Subroutines were not explicitly separated from each other or from the main program, and indeed the source code of a subroutine could be interspersed with that of other subprograms. Some assemblers would offer predefined macros to generate the call and return sequences. By the 1960s, assemblers usually had much more sophisticated support for both inline and separately assembled subroutines that could be linked together.\n\nEven with this cumbersome approach, subroutines proved very useful. For one thing they allowed use of the same code in many different programs. Moreover, memory was a very scarce resource on early computers, and subroutines allowed significant savings in the size of programs.\n\nMany early computers loaded the program instructions into memory from a punched paper tape. Each subroutine could then be provided by a separate piece of tape, loaded or spliced before or after the main program (or \"mainline\"); and the same subroutine tape could then be used by many different programs. A similar approach applied in computers which used punched cards for their main input. The name \"subroutine library\" originally meant a library, in the literal sense, which kept indexed collections of tapes or card-decks for collective use.\n\nTo remove the need for self-modifying code, computer designers eventually provided an \"indirect jump\" instruction, whose operand, instead of being the return address itself, was the location of a variable or processor register containing the return address.\n\nOn those computers, instead of modifying the subroutine's return jump, the calling program would store the return address in a variable so that when the subroutine completed, it would execute an indirect jump that would direct execution to the location given by the predefined variable.\n\nAnother advance was the \"jump to subroutine\" instruction, which combined the saving of the return address with the calling jump, thereby minimizing overhead significantly.\n\nIn the IBM System/360, for example, the branch instructions BAL or BALR, designed for procedure calling, would save the return address in a processor register specified in the instruction. To return, the subroutine had only to execute an indirect branch instruction (BR) through that register. If the subroutine needed that register for some other purpose (such as calling another subroutine), it would save the register's contents to a private memory location or a register stack.\n\nIn systems such as the HP 2100, the JSB instruction would perform a similar task, except that the return address was stored in the memory location that was the target of the branch. Execution of the procedure would actually begin at the next memory location. In the HP 2100 assembly language, one would write, for example\nto call a subroutine called MYSUB from the main program. The subroutine would be coded as\nThe JSB instruction placed the address of the NEXT instruction (namely, BB) into the location specified as its operand (namely, MYSUB), and then branched to the NEXT location after that (namely, AA = MYSUB + 1). The subroutine could then return to the main program by executing the indirect jump JMP MYSUB,I which branched to the location stored at location MYSUB.\n\nCompilers for Fortran and other languages could easily make use of these instructions when available. This approach supported multiple levels of calls; however, since the return address, parameters, and return values of a subroutine were assigned fixed memory locations, it did not allow for recursive calls.\n\nIncidentally, a similar method was used by Lotus 1-2-3, in the early 1980s, to discover the recalculation dependencies in a spreadsheet. Namely, a location was reserved in each cell to store the \"return\" address. Since circular references are not allowed for natural recalculation order, this allows a tree walk without reserving space for a stack in memory, which was very limited on small computers such as the IBM PC.\nMost modern implementations of a subroutine call use a call stack, a special case of the stack data structure, to implement subroutine calls and returns. Each procedure call creates a new entry, called a \"stack frame\", at the top of the stack; when the procedure returns, its stack frame is deleted from the stack, and its space may be used for other procedure calls. Each stack frame contains the \"private data\" of the corresponding call, which typically includes the procedure's parameters and internal variables, and the return address.\n\nThe call sequence can be implemented by a sequence of ordinary instructions (an approach still used in reduced instruction set computing (RISC) and very long instruction word (VLIW) architectures), but many traditional machines designed since the late 1960s have included special instructions for that purpose.\n\nThe call stack is usually implemented as a contiguous area of memory. It is an arbitrary design choice whether the bottom of the stack is the lowest or highest address within this area, so that the stack may grow forwards or backwards in memory; however, many architectures chose the latter.\n\nSome designs, notably some Forth implementations, used two separate stacks, one mainly for control information (like return addresses and loop counters) and the other for data. The former was, or worked like, a call stack and was only indirectly accessible to the programmer through other language constructs while the latter was more directly accessible.\n\nWhen stack-based procedure calls were first introduced, an important motivation was to save precious memory. With this scheme, the compiler does not have to reserve separate space in memory for the private data (parameters, return address, and local variables) of each procedure. At any moment, the stack contains only the private data of the calls that are currently \"active\" (namely, which have been called but haven't returned yet). Because of the ways in which programs were usually assembled from libraries, it was (and still is) not uncommon to find programs that include thousands of subroutines, of which only a handful are active at any given moment. For such programs, the call stack mechanism could save significant amounts of memory. Indeed, the call stack mechanism can be viewed as the earliest and simplest method for automatic memory management.\n\nHowever, another advantage of the call stack method is that it allows recursive subroutine calls, since each nested call to the same procedure gets a separate instance of its private data.\n\nOne disadvantage of the call stack mechanism is the increased cost of a procedure call and its matching return. The extra cost includes incrementing and decrementing the stack pointer (and, in some architectures, checking for stack overflow), and accessing the local variables and parameters by frame-relative addresses, instead of absolute addresses. The cost may be realized in increased execution time, or increased processor complexity, or both.\n\nThis overhead is most obvious and objectionable in \"leaf procedures\" or \"leaf functions\", which return without making any procedure calls themselves.\nTo reduce that overhead, many modern compilers try to delay the use of a call stack until it is really needed. For example, the call of a procedure \"P\" may store the return address and parameters of the called procedure in certain processor registers, and transfer control to the procedure's body by a simple jump. If procedure \"P\" returns without making any other call, the call stack is not used at all. If \"P\" needs to call another procedure \"Q\", it will then use the call stack to save the contents of any registers (such as the return address) that will be needed after \"Q\" returns.\n\nIn the C and C++ programming languages, subprograms are termed \"functions\" (further classified as \"member functions\" when associated with a class, or \"free functions\" when not). These languages use the special keyword codice_8 to indicate that a function takes no parameters (especially in C) or does not return any value. Note that C/C++ functions can have side-effects, including modifying any variables whose addresses are passed as parameters (i.e., \"passed by reference\"). Examples:\nThe function does not return a value and has to be called as a stand-alone function, e.g., codice_9\n\nThis function returns a result (the number 5), and the call can be part of an expression, e.g., codice_10\n\nThis function converts a number between 0 and 6 into the initial letter of the corresponding day of the week, namely 0 to 'S', 1 to 'M', ..., 6 to 'S'. The result of calling it might be assigned to a variable, e.g., codice_11.\n\nThis function does not return a value but modifies the variable whose address is passed as the parameter; it would be called with \"codice_12\".\n\nIn the example above, codice_13 calls the subroutine.To define the actual subroutine, the codice_14 keyword must be used, with the subroutine name following codice_14. After content has followed, \ncodice_16 must be typed.\n\nIn the Visual Basic 6 language, subprograms are termed \"functions\" or \"subs\" (or \"methods\" when associated with a class). Visual Basic 6 uses various terms called \"types\" to define what is being passed as a parameter. By default, an unspecified variable is registered as a variant type and can be passed as \"ByRef\" (default) or \"ByVal\". Also, when a function or sub is declared, it is given a public, private, or friend designation, which determines whether it can be accessed outside the module or project that it was declared in.\nPrivate Function Function1()\nEnd Function\nThe function does not return a value and has to be called as a stand-alone function, e.g., codice_17\nPrivate Function Function2() as Integer\nEnd Function\nThis function returns a result (the number 5), and the call can be part of an expression, e.g., codice_18\nPrivate Function Function3(ByVal intValue as Integer) as String\nEnd Function\nThis function converts a number between 0 and 6 into the initial letter of the corresponding day of the week, namely 0 to 'M', 1 to 'T', ..., 6 to 'S'. The result of calling it might be assigned to a variable, e.g., codice_19.\nPrivate Function Function4(ByRef intValue as Integer)\nEnd Function\nThis function does not return a value but modifies the variable whose address is passed as the parameter; it would be called with \"codice_20\".\n\nIn PL/I a called procedure may be passed a \"descriptor\" providing information about the argument, such as string lengths and array bounds. This allows the procedure to be more general and eliminates the need for the programmer to pass such information. By default PL/I passes arguments by reference. A (trivial) subroutine to change the sign of each element of a two-dimensional array might look like:\nThis could be called with various arrays as follows:\nA subprogram may find it useful to make use of a certain amount of \"scratch\" space; that is, memory used during the execution of that subprogram to hold intermediate results. Variables stored in this scratch space are termed \"local variables\", and the scratch space is termed an \"activation record\". An activation record typically has a return address that tells it where to pass control back to when the subprogram finishes.\n\nA subprogram may have any number and nature of call sites. If recursion is supported, a subprogram may even call itself, causing its execution to suspend while another \"nested\" execution of the same subprogram occurs. Recursion is a useful means to simplify some complex algorithms and break down complex problems. Recursive languages generally provide a new copy of local variables on each call. If the programmer desires the value of local variables to stay the same between calls, they can be declared \"static\" in some languages, or global values or common areas can be used. Here is an example of recursive subroutine in C/C++ to find Fibonacci numbers:\nint fib(int n)\n\nEarly languages like Fortran did not initially support recursion because variables were statically allocated, as well as the location for the return address. Most computers before the late 1960s such as the PDP-8 did not have support for hardware stack registers.\n\nModern languages after ALGOL such as PL/1 and C almost invariably use a stack, usually supported by most modern computer instruction sets to provide a fresh activation record for every execution of a subprogram. That way, the nested execution is free to modify its local variables without concern for the effect on other suspended executions in progress. As nested calls accumulate, a call stack structure is formed, consisting of one activation record for each suspended subprogram. In fact, this stack structure is virtually ubiquitous, and so activation records are commonly termed \"stack frames\".\n\nSome languages such as Pascal and Ada also support nested subroutines, which are subroutines callable only within the scope of an outer (parent) subroutine. Inner subroutines have access to the local variables of the outer subroutine that called them. This is accomplished by storing extra context information within the activation record, also termed a \"display\".\n\nIf a subprogram can be executed properly even when another execution of the same subprogram is already in progress, that subprogram is said to be \"reentrant\". A recursive subprogram must be reentrant. Reentrant subprograms are also useful in multi-threaded situations, since multiple threads can call the same subprogram without fear of interfering with each other. In the IBM CICS transaction processing system, \"quasi-reentrant\" was a slightly less restrictive, but similar, requirement for application programs that were shared by many threads.\n\nIn a multi-threaded environment, there is generally more than one stack. An environment that fully supports coroutines or lazy evaluation may use data structures other than stacks to store their activation records.\n\nIn strongly typed languages, it is sometimes desirable to have a number of functions with the same name, but operating on different types of data, or with different parameter profiles. For example, a square root function might be defined to operate on reals, complex values or matrices. The algorithm to be used in each case is different, and the return result may be different. By writing three separate functions with the same name, the programmer has the convenience of not having to remember different names for each type of data. Further if a subtype can be defined for the reals, to separate positive and negative reals, two functions can be written for the reals, one to return a real when the parameter is positive, and another to return a complex value when the parameter is negative.\n\nIn object-oriented programming, when a series of functions with the same name can accept different parameter profiles or parameters of different types, each of the functions is said to be overloaded.\n\nHere is an example of subroutine overloading in C++:\n\n\ndouble area(double h, double w) {\n\ndouble area(double r) {\n\nint main() {\n\nIn this code there are two functions of same name but they have different parameters.\n\nAs another example, a subroutine might construct an object that will accept directions, and trace its path to these points on screen. There are a plethora of parameters that could be passed in to the constructor (colour of the trace, starting x and y co-ordinates, trace speed). If the programmer wanted the constructor to be able to accept only the color parameter, then he could call another constructor that accepts only color, which in turn calls the constructor with all the parameters passing in a set of \"default values\" for all the other parameters (X and Y would generally be centered on screen or placed at the origin, and the speed would be set to another value of the coder's choosing).\n\nA \"closure\" is a subprogram together with the values of some of its variables captured from the environment in which it was created. Closures were a notable feature of the Lisp programming language, introduced by John McCarthy. Depending on the implementation, closures can serve as a mechanism for side-effects.\n\nA wide number of conventions for the coding of subroutines have been developed. Pertaining to their naming, many developers have adopted the approach that the name of a subroutine should be a verb when it does a certain task, an adjective when it makes some inquiry, and a noun when it is used to substitute variables.\n\nSome programmers suggest that a subroutine should perform only one task, and if a subroutine does perform more than one task, it should be split up into more subroutines. They argue that subroutines are key components in code maintenance, and their roles in the program must remain distinct.\n\nProponents of modular programming (modularizing code) advocate that each subroutine should have minimal dependency on other pieces of code. For example, the use of global variables is generally deemed unwise by advocates for this perspective, because it adds tight coupling between the subroutine and these global variables. If such coupling is not necessary, their advice is to refactor subroutines to accept passed parameters instead. However, increasing the number of parameters passed to subroutines can affect code readability.\n\nBesides its \"main\" or \"normal\" effect, a subroutine may need to inform the calling program about \"exceptional\" conditions that may have occurred during its execution. In some languages and programming standards, this is often done through a \"return code\", an integer value placed by the subroutine in some standard location, which encodes the normal and exceptional conditions.\n\nIn the IBM System/360, where a return code was expected from the subroutine, the return value was often designed to be a multiple of 4—so that it could be used as a direct branch table index into a branch table often located immediately after the call instruction to avoid extra conditional tests, further improving efficiency. In the System/360 assembly language, one would write, for example:\n\nThere is a significant runtime overhead in a calling a subroutine, including passing the arguments, branching to the subprogram, and branching back to the caller. The overhead often includes saving and restoring certain processor registers, allocating and reclaiming call frame storage, etc.. In some languages, each subroutine call also implies automatic testing of the subroutine's return code, or the handling of exceptions that it may raise. In object-oriented languages, a significant source of overhead is the intensively used dynamic dispatch for method calls.\n\nThere are some seemingly obvious optimizations of procedure calls that cannot be applied if the procedures may have side effects. For example, in the expression codice_21, the function codice_22 must be called twice, because the two calls may return different results. Moreover, the value of codice_23 must be fetched again before the second call, since the first call may have changed it. Determining whether a subprogram may have a side effect is very difficult (indeed, undecidable). So, while those optimizations are safe in purely functional programming languages, compilers of typical imperative programming usually have to assume the worst.\n\nA method used to eliminate this overhead is \"inline expansion\" or \"inlining\" of the subprogram's body at each call site (versus branching to the subroutine and back). Not only does this avoid the call overhead, but it also allows the compiler to optimize the procedure's \"body\" more effectively by taking into account the context and arguments at that call. The inserted body can be optimized by the compiler. Inlining however, will usually increase the code size, unless the program contains only one call to the subroutine, or the subroutine body is less code than the call overhead.\n\n"}
{"id": "24160174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24160174", "title": "The Street (film)", "text": "The Street (film)\n\nThe Street is a 1976 animated short by Caroline Leaf, based on a short story of the same name by Mordecai Richler, and produced by the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nAnimated using paint on glass animation, and set on Saint Urbain Street in Montreal, it explores the reactions of Jewish family in the early 20th century to the death of a grandmother.\n\n\"The Street\" garnered numerous awards including a special prize from the Melbourne International Film Festival and two Canadian Film Awards (now known as the Genie Awards) for Best Animated Film and the Wendy Michener Award, presented in recognition of outstanding artistic achievement in Canadian cinema. It was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film at the 49th Academy Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "46253375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46253375", "title": "Timothy Shaler Williams", "text": "Timothy Shaler Williams\n\nColonel Timothy Shaler Williams (August 1, 1862 - June 3, 1930) was an American journalist, and later president of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company.\n\nHe was born on August 1, 1862 in Ithaca, New York to Frances Henrietta Grant and Howard Cornelius Williams. He worked as a journalist for a New York City newspaper from 1884 to 1889. He was private secretary to two New York governors, David Bennett Hill and Roswell Pettibone Flower . He married Alice Williams on October 31, 1895. In 1895 he joined the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company and was president from 1911 until his retirement in 1923. He died on June 3, 1930 in Manhattan, New York City from heat stroke.\n"}
{"id": "6994817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6994817", "title": "W. R. Myers High School shooting", "text": "W. R. Myers High School shooting\n\nThe W. R. Myers High School shooting was a school shooting that occurred on April 28, 1999, at W. R. Myers High School in Taber, Alberta, Canada. The gunman, 14-year-old Todd Cameron Smith, walked into his school and began firing at three students in a hallway, killing one student and wounding another student. It was the first fatal high-school shooting in Canada in more than two decades.\n\nThe incident began when Smith entered the school campus armed with a .22-calibre rifle and hundreds of rounds of ammunition. As lunch concluded, he fired at three students in a hallway adjacent to the cafeteria. He fatally shot 17-year-old Jason Lang at point-blank range, and then shot at two other students, seriously wounding one, and missing the other. Gym coach Cheyno Finnie managed to wrestle Smith to the floor. He was arrested without further incident by a Taber constable, who also served as the school's resource officer. He was charged with one count of first-degree murder, and two counts of attempted murder.\n\nSmith's identity and background was originally protected under Canada's Young Offenders Act at the time of his arrest. He had dropped out of W.R. Myers High School earlier in the school year. According to court documents, he had suffered severe bullying at school, including having been doused with lighter fluid and threatened to be set alight when he was in the first grade. He was remembered as being intelligent but socially awkward, and had become \"reclusive and extremely fearful\" by early adolescence. His mother said he had been showing signs of depression throughout his childhood. Smith's family stated that he \"snapped\" after watching coverage of the Columbine High School massacre, which had occurred eight days prior.\n\nCrown prosecutors attempted to have then 15-year-old Smith tried as an adult with the potential for a life sentence with the possibility of parole in five years. The Crown also argued that an adult prison would offer greater educational programs than a youth facility could provide. The court denied the motion and he was tried as a juvenile.\n\nFollowing his arrest and before the trial, a medical examination discovered Smith had a heart ailment that required open heart surgery. During the surgery, he suffered a stroke and fell into a coma. After awakening from the coma, he had speaking and eating difficulties and suffered from diminished mental capacity. His case was suspended until he recovered, as both the Crown and defense agreed he could not stand trial. Following a \"remarkable recovery\", he was declared suitable to stand trial, and was scheduled to appear in court in September 2000. At his trial, Smith pleaded guilty to all three charges, and was sentenced to three years in prison, and was ordered to live seven years on probation upon his release.\n\nShortly after the shooting, Reverend Dale Lang, father of victim Jason Lang, forgave his son's killer. Dale Lang preaches the need for compassion and forgiveness, and has become a well-known public speaker and anti-bullying activist.\n\nIn March 2005, Todd Cameron Smith was released into a halfway house in Toronto, despite the agreement of the judge that the then 20-year-old remained a threat to society. In August of that year, he walked out of the halfway house, leaving behind a note stating \"he wouldn't be caged any longer and he wouldn't surrender alive.\" His escape prompted Toronto police to obtain a court injunction allowing them to publicize his identity until such time as he was caught.\n\nHowever, Smith turned himself in to authorities the following day and was recaptured without incident. The waiver allowing publication of his identity in Canada lapsed upon his recapture, though not before his name was published and released by several news outlets across the country. Following his recapture, Canadian media were required to no longer use Smith's name or photograph, as they had the previous day.\n\nJason Lang Scholarship was created in memory of Jason Lang to reward academic achievement of post-secondary students in Alberta and is managed by Alberta Scholarship Programs.\n\n"}
