{"id": "45522933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45522933", "title": "2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings", "text": "2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings\n\nThe 2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings were two separate shooting incidents that occurred in South Korea on 25 and 27 February 2015 in the cities of Sejong and Hwaseong, respectively. After each shooting, the gunmen committed suicide.\n\nBoth incidents led South Korea to immediate adoption of GPS monitoring of firearms. Since the rarity of shooting incidents in South Korea are evident, they garner international news coverage; the two unrelated spree shootings were widely reported as was the adoption of the gun control measure.\n\nAt 8 a.m. in the morning of 25 February (23:00 GMT Tuesday), in Sejong, South Korea's administrative capital, a gunman shot and killed three people at a convenience store, then committed suicide at another location. The three victims were the gunman's ex-girlfriend's father, brother, and current boyfriend. Keeping a gun in the home in South Korea is restricted; the shooter checked out two shotguns from a police precinct two hours before.\n\nOn 27 February, another shooting occurred in Hwaseong, Gyeonggi, South Korea, where an elderly man shot and killed three people—his brother, his sister-in-law, and a policeman—and injured another police officer before committing suicide. He had checked out a hunting rifle at a police station before driving to his brother's house. A niece of the gunman was injured jumping from a second-story window to escape.\n\nThe incident caused South Korea's Yonhap News Agency to criticize the nation's gun control regulations for hunting weapons, and led immediately to gun control regulation changes. On March 2, the first business day following the Friday incident, South Korea's National Emergency Management Agency, its National Police Agency, and the ruling Saenuri Party agreed to require GPS monitoring of guns in the nation.\n"}
{"id": "659223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659223", "title": "Academy of the Hebrew Language", "text": "Academy of the Hebrew Language\n\nThe Academy of the Hebrew Language (, \"ha-akademya la-lashon ha-ivrit\") was established by the Israeli government in 1953 as the \"supreme institution for scholarship on the Hebrew language in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem of Givat Ram campus.\" It is an educational institution with the mission of creating new Hebrew words to ensure that the language does not die out.\n\nThe Academy replaced the Hebrew Language Committee (Vaʻad ha-lashon ha-ʻIvrit) established in 1890 by Eliezer Ben-Yehuda, who was its first president. As Hebrew became the spoken language in Palestine and was adopted by the educational system, the Hebrew Language Committee published bulletins and dictionaries. It coined thousands of words that are in everyday use today.\n\nIts successor, the Academy of the Hebrew Language, has continued this mission of creating new Hebrew words to keep up modern usage.\n\nAlthough the academy's business is creating new words from Hebrew roots and structures to replace loanwords derived from other languages, its own name is a loanword, \"akademya.\" It addresses this irony on its English website.\n\nThe Academy's mission, as defined in its constitution, is \"to direct the development of Hebrew in light of its nature\" (לכוון את דרכי התפתחותה של הלשון העברית לפי טבעה). The Academy sets standards for modern Hebrew grammar, orthography, transliteration, and punctuation based on the historical development of the language. It also writes a Hebrew Historical Dictionary.\n\nThe plenum consists of 23 members. In addition, the academy employs 15 academic advisors, among them respected scholars of language, linguistics, Judaic studies, and Bible. The Academy’s decisions are binding on all governmental agencies, including the Israel Broadcasting Authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34795687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795687", "title": "Aliens Control Act, 1973", "text": "Aliens Control Act, 1973\n\nThe Aliens Control Act No 40 of 1973 of South Africa led to the exemption of the racial group of Indians from the need to obtain permits for travel between provinces. However, in terms of provincial legislation at the time, Indians were not allowed to stay in the Orange Free State and parts of northern Natal for more than a brief period unless prior permission had been obtained.\n\nThe laws prohibiting Indians from residing in the Orange Free State and northern Natal, from which the Aliens Control Act had granted an exemption, were themselves repealed in 1986. The act was repealed by section 60 of the Aliens Control Act, 1991.\n"}
{"id": "3348190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3348190", "title": "Alliance for an Open Europe", "text": "Alliance for an Open Europe\n\nThe Alliance for an Open Europe is a Eurosceptic and free market transnational political organisation, that includes representatives from political parties and think tanks.\n\nIt was initiated by British Conservative Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Daniel Hannan, and its birth came in the midst of renewed questioning of the linkage between the centre-right European People's Party and the further-right eurosceptic European Democrats in the European Parliament. Hannan reportedly launched the Alliance with the intention of promoting national sovereignty, free trade and \"maximum devolution of power\".\n\nSome have suggested that the organisation could become the nucleus of a new European political party or that its name be adopted by a newly independent ED group. The Alliance appears to have never received any official sanction from the respective party leadership of its participants, however. In December 2005, future Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron (then new party leader of the British Conservatives pledged to pull his party out of the European People's party in favor of the Alliance for an Open Europe. This move was criticized by former UK Conservative minister Anthony Nelson who argued that the leader of the Tory party \"should occupy the centre ground and be inclusive not exclusive.\" \n\nDelegates to its inaugural meeting on 5 December 2005 included representatives from the UK Conservatives, the Czech Civic Democratic Party, the Polish Law and Justice party and the French Rally For France.\n\nIn July 2006, the Movement for European Reform was announced, a broadly similar body, though with a formal mandate from the leadership of the British Conservatives and Czech Civic Democrats. In February/March 2007 the Bulgarian Union of Democratic Forces also joined the organisation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25156610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25156610", "title": "Communist Initiative", "text": "Communist Initiative\n\nThe Communist Initiative (German: \"Kommunistische Initiative\") was an orthodox Marxist-Leninist organisation in Austria. It was founded in 2004 as a faction of the Communist Party of Austria (KPÖ). It left the party in 2005. It was a candidate in the parliamentary elections in 2008 as a part of the alliance \"The Left\". At the elections of the Chamber of Labor in Vienna, it was a candidate in an alliance with the ATIGF (Austrian section of the Communist Party of Turkey/Marxist-Leninist) as \"KOMintern\" and got 0,7% and one seat. In 2013 the Communist Initiative disbanded and the Party of Labour of Austria was founded.\n\n"}
{"id": "27148727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148727", "title": "Crisis accommodation", "text": "Crisis accommodation\n\nCrisis accommodation is accommodation provided to people experiencing temporary or ongoing conditions of crisis with the aim of removing them from an otherwise harmful environment and allowing them to improve their situations from a safe and stable environment. Situations that may be alleviated through crisis accommodation include but are not limited to homelessness, domestic violence, elder abuse, and child abuse. Crisis accommodation is typically provided through government organisations, not-for-profit organisations and charities.\n"}
{"id": "22203356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22203356", "title": "Damir Polančec", "text": "Damir Polančec\n\nDamir Polančec (born 25 June 1967) is a Croatian politician. Polančec served as the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the Croatian Government of Ivo Sanader and later Jadranka Kosor between 2003 and 2009.\n\nOn 30 October 2009, Polančec resigned citing a need to avoid damaging the Government and the party (Croatian Democratic Union, HDZ) due to accusations leveled at him for his involvement in the mismanagement of Podravka.\n\nOn 30 March 2010, Polančec was apprehended by the police and questioned by USKOK, regarding his involvement in certain financial transactions between Podravka, MOL Group and OTP Bank.\nThe County Court in Zagreb authorized a longer detention for Polančec and also blocked his estates, at the request of USKOK.\n\nOn 15 October 2010, Polančec was sentenced to 15 months in prison for a separate instance of abuse of power, where he approved a fictional expense to a Vukovar-based attorney in return for his clients dropping lawsuits against the government.\n"}
{"id": "58516590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58516590", "title": "De Meester cabinet", "text": "De Meester cabinet\n\nThe De Meester cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 17 August 1905 until 12 February 1908. The cabinet was formed by the political parties Liberal Union (LU) and the Free-thinking Democratic League (VDB) after the election of 1905. The right-wing cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives but was supported by Independent Liberals for a majority. Theo de Meester of the Liberal Union was Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "387111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387111", "title": "Doric Club", "text": "Doric Club\n\nThe Doric Club was an association of Loyals set up in Lower Canada by Adam Thom, a lawyer and journalist, in March 1836. A noted opponent of the Patriotes, the group was both a social club and a paramilitary organization. It was used as the armed faction of the Constitutional Party and many of its members took part in the Lower Canada Rebellions of 1837 and 1838 on the British side.\n\nThe members of the Club were mostly young anglophone radicals who had been forced to leave the British Rifle Corps after its dissolution by Lord Gosford in January 1836. Gosford affirmed that British subjects were not in danger, being adequately protected by the army, and that such groupings were useless. Believing them to be about 2,000 in number, he judged them to be troublemakers.\n\nOn March 16, 1836, the Club published its manifesto, calling all loyal British men to unite against what it had called the \"French domination\" in Lower Canada. \"If we are deserted by the British government and the British people, rather than submit to the degradation of being subject of a French-Canadian republic, we are determined by our own right arms to work out our deliverance\", read the document.\n\nDespite the opposition of Lord Gosford, the Doric Club was tolerated by General John Colborne, as were many other Loyal armed groups. On November 6, 1837, after an assembly of the Société des fils de la liberté, a group of young Patriote supporters, a violent skirmish erupted between the latter and the Club. Finally, during the Lower Canada Rebellions, Colborne recruited several of its members as volunteers to quell the rebels. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19666050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19666050", "title": "Euro Mediterranean Partnership of Local and Regional Authorities", "text": "Euro Mediterranean Partnership of Local and Regional Authorities\n\nThe (Standing Committee) Euro Mediterranean Partnership of Local and Regional Authorities (COPPEM), was created in 2000 to promote dialogue and development between local and regional authorities in the Euro-Mediterranean area.\n\nIt was set up on the initiative of the Council of European Municipalities and Regions (CEMR) and the Arab Towns Organization (ATO). Its members represent local authorities, provinces and regions in 35 states of the Euro-Mediterranean region. Membership is not restricted to the Mediterranean Basin and currently includes Danish and Austrian bodies. \n\nThe administrative structure consists of a Bureau, also known as the Presidency Council, and four commissions: \n\nI. – Political and institutional (chair = Ian Micallef)\n\nII. – Cooperation between cities and regions (chair = Jan Mans)\n\nIII. – Economic and financial cooperation (chair = Abdelkarim Mosbah)\n\nIV. – Culture, technology, tourism and environment (chair = Falah Al Omoush and manager Natale Giordano)\n\nThe organisation’s headquarters, with a small secretariat, are in Palermo, Italy. The current president, since April 2008, is Raffaele Lombardo, President of the Sicilian Region. He took over from the former President of the Sicilian Region Salvatore Cuffaro. The founding President was Fabio Pellegrini.\n\nThe acronym derives from its Italian title, the \"Comitato Permanente per il Partenariato Euromediterraneo dei Poteri Locali e Regionali\".\n\nCOPPEM held its 13th General Assembly in Palermo from 20 to 21 December 2008. It issues a regular newsletter, available as a PDF download from its website, edited by Fabio Pellegrini.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46536253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46536253", "title": "European Charlemagne Youth Prize", "text": "European Charlemagne Youth Prize\n\nThe European Charlemagne Youth Prize, sometimes shortened Charlemagne Youth Prize, is a prize that since 2008 has been annually awarded by the European Parliament and the foundation of the original Charlemagne Prize to young people who have contributed towards the process of European integration. Like the Charlemagne Prize, which has existed since 1949, the youth prize commemorates Charlemagne, ruler of the Frankish Empire and founder of what became the Holy Roman Empire, who resided and is buried at Aachen in today's Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "9327082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9327082", "title": "European Union National Institutes for Culture", "text": "European Union National Institutes for Culture\n\nThe European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) is a network of European national institutes of culture and national bodies engaged in cultural and related activities beyond their national borders. EUNIC brings together organisations from all 28 EU member states and adds value through its global network of clusters. By pooling together the resources and expertise of its members and carrying out joint work on common areas of interest, EUNIC is a recognized partner of the EU and its stakeholders in defining and implementing European policy on culture inside and outside the EU.\n\nThe overarching purpose of EUNIC is to create effective partnerships and networks between the participating organisations, to improve and promote cultural diversity and understanding between European societies, and to strengthen international dialogue and co-operation with countries outside Europe.\n\nSince its establishment in 2006, EUNIC has evolved into a strong network delivering transnational collaborative projects worldwide through its 36 members and 103 clusters. Members consist of national cultural institutions or organizations. Clusters are collaboration platforms established where at least 3 local offices of EUNIC members operate together. Clusters can operate nationwide or citywide. A EUNIC cluster represents the whole of EUNIC and not only those members present in a country/location.\n\nEUNIC is managed by a bi-annual meeting of the Heads of its member organisations. They elect from among themselves a President, a Vice President, and four ordinary members who together represent the EUNIC Board of Directors.\n\nThe Presidents are supported by the EUNIC Global office team based in Brussels. The EUNIC Global Office in Brussels also supports the work of EUNIC members and clusters around the world.\n\nMembers of Board of Directors (2016-2017)\n\nPrevious presidencies\n\nCurrent members of EUNIC (March 2017)\n"}
{"id": "9855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9855", "title": "Exile", "text": "Exile\n\nTo be in exile means to be away from one's home (i.e. city, state, or country), while either being explicitly refused permission to return or being threatened with imprisonment or death upon return.\n\nIn Roman law, \"exsilium\" denoted both voluntary exile and banishment as a capital punishment alternative to death. Deportation was forced exile, and entailed the lifelong loss of citizenship and property. Relegation was a milder form of deportation, which preserved the subject's citizenship and property.\n\nThe terms diaspora and refugee describe group exile, both voluntary and forced, and \"government in exile\" describes a government of a country that has relocated and argues its legitimacy from outside that country. Voluntary exile is often depicted as a form of protest by the person who claims it, to avoid persecution and prosecution (such as tax or criminal allegations), an act of shame or repentance, or isolating oneself to be able to devote time to a particular pursuit.\n\nArticle 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.\"\n\nIn some cases the deposed head of state is allowed to go into exile following a coup or other change of government, allowing a more peaceful transition to take place or to escape justice.\n\nA wealthy citizen who moves to a jurisdiction with lower taxes is termed a \"tax exile\". Creative people such as authors and musicians who achieve sudden wealth sometimes choose this solution. Examples include the British-Canadian writer Arthur Hailey, who moved to the Bahamas to avoid taxes following the runaway success of his novels \"Hotel\" and \"Airport\", and the English rock band the Rolling Stones who, in the spring of 1971, owed more in taxes than they could pay and left Britain before the government could seize their assets. Members of the band all moved to France for a period of time where they recorded music for the album that came to be called \"Exile on Main Street\", the Main Street of the title referring to the French Riviera. In 2012, Eduardo Saverin, one of the founders of Facebook, made headlines by renouncing his U.S. citizenship before his company's IPO. The dual Brazilian/U.S. citizen's decision to move to Singapore and renounce his citizenship spurred a bill in the U.S. Senate, the Ex-PATRIOT Act, which would have forced such wealthy \"tax exiles\" to pay a special tax in order to re-enter the United States.\n\nIn some cases a person voluntarily lives in exile to avoid legal issues, such as litigation or criminal prosecution. An example of this is Asil Nadir, who fled to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus for 17 years rather than face prosecution in connection with the failed £1.7 bn company Polly Peck in the United Kingdom.\n\nExamples include:\n\nIt is an alternative theory recently developed by a young anthropologist, Balan in 2018. According to him, comfortable exile is a “social exile of people who have been excluded from the mainstream society. Such people are considered “aliens” or internal “others” on the grounds of their religious, racial, ethnic, linguistic or caste-based identity and therefore they migrate to a comfortable space elsewhere after having risked their lives to restore representation, identity and civil rights in their own country and often capture a comfortable identity to being part of a dominant religion, society or culture.” \n\nWhen a large group, or occasionally a whole people or nation is exiled, it can be said that this nation is in exile, or \"diaspora\". Nations that have been in exile for substantial periods include the Jews, who were deported by Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II in 586 BC and again following the destruction of the second Temple in Jerusalem in AD 70. Many Jewish prayers include a yearning to return to Jerusalem and the Jewish homeland.\n\nAfter the partitions of Poland in the late 18th century, and following the uprisings (like Kościuszko Uprising, November Uprising and January Uprising) against the partitioning powers (Russian Empire, Prussia and Austro-Hungary), many Poles have chosen – or been forced – to go into exile, forming large diasporas (known as Polonia), especially in France and the United States. The entire population of Crimean Tatars (200,000) that remained in their homeland Crimea was exiled on 18 May 1944 to Central Asia as a form of ethnic cleansing and collective punishment on false accusations. At Diego Garcia, between 1967 and 1973 the British Government forcibly removed some 2,000 Chagossian resident islanders to make way for a military base today jointly operated by the US and UK.\n\nSince the Cuban Revolution over one million Cubans have left Cuba. Most of these self-identify as exiles as their motivation for leaving the island is political in nature. It is to be noted that at the time of the Cuban Revolution, Cuba only had a population of 6.5 million, and was not a country that had a history of significant emigration, it being the sixth largest recipient of immigrants in the world as of 1958. Most of the exiles' children also consider themselves to be Cuban exiles. It is to be noted that under Cuban law, children of Cubans born abroad are considered Cuban citizens.\n\nDuring a foreign occupation or after a coup d'état, a \"government in exile\" of a such afflicted country may be established abroad. One of the most well-known instances of this is the Polish government-in-exile, a government in exile that commanded Polish armed forces operating outside Poland after German occupation during World War II. Other examples include the Free French Forces government of Charles De Gaulle of the same time, and the Central Tibetan Administration, commonly known as the Tibetan government-in-exile, and headed by the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nExile is an early motif in ancient Greek tragedy. In the ancient Greek world, this was seen as a fate worse than death. The motif reaches its peak on the play \"Medea\", written by Euripides in the fifth century BC, and rooted in the very old oral traditions of Greek mythology. Euripides’ Medea has remained the most frequently performed Greek tragedy through the 20th century.\n\nAfter Medea was abandoned by Jason and had become a murderer out of revenge, she fled to Athens and married king Aigeus there, and became the stepmother of the hero Theseus. Due to a conflict with him, she must leave the Polis and go away into exile. John William Waterhouse (1849–1917), the English Pre-Raphaelite painter’s famous picture \"Jason and Medea\" shows a key moment before, when Medea tries to poison Theseus.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the Roman Senate had the power to declare the exile to individuals, families or even entire regions. One of the Roman victims was the poet Ovid, who lived during the reign of Augustus. He was forced to leave Rome and move away to the city of Tomis on the Black Sea, now Constanta. There he wrote his famous work \"Tristia\" (Sorrows) about his bitter feelings in exile.\nAnother, at least in a temporary exile, was Dante.\n\nThe German language writer of novels, Franz Kafka, called \"the Dante of the twentieth century\" by the poet W. H. Auden, describes the exile of Karl Rossmann in the posthumously published novel \"Amerika\".\n\nDuring the period of National Socialism in the first few years after 1933, many Jews, as well as a significant number of German artists and intellectuals fled into exile; for instance, the authors Klaus Mann and Anna Seghers. So Germany’s own exile literature emerged and received worldwide credit. Klaus Mann finished his novel \"\" (\"The Volcano. A Novel Among Emigrants\") in 1939 describing the German exile scene, \"to bring the rich, scattered and murky experience of exile into epic form\", as he wrote in his literary balance sheet. At the same place and in the same year, Anna Seghers published her famous novel \"Das siebte Kreuz\" (\"The Seventh Cross\", published in the United States in 1942).\n\nImportant exile literatures in recent years include that of the Caribbean, many of whose artists emigrated to Europe or the United States for political or economic reasons. These writers include Nobel Prize winners V. S. Naipaul and Derek Walcott as well as the novelists Edwidge Danticat and Sam Selvon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "541409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541409", "title": "Free Papua Movement", "text": "Free Papua Movement\n\nThe Free Papua Movement () is an umbrella term for the independence movement established during 1965 in the West Papuan or West New Guinea territory which is currently being administrated by Indonesia as the provinces of Papua and West Papua, also formerly known as Papua, Irian Jaya and West Irian.\n\nThe movement consists of three elements: a disparate group of armed units each with\nlimited territorial control with no single commander; several groups in the territory that conduct demonstrations and protests; and a small group of leaders based abroad that raise awareness of issues in the territory whilst striving for international support for independence.\n\nSince its inception the OPM has attempted diplomatic dialogue, conducted Morning Star flag-raising ceremonies, and undertaken militant actions as part of the Papua conflict. Supporters routinely display the Morning Star flag and other symbols of Papuan unity, such as the national anthem \"Hai Tanahku Papua\" and a national coat of arms, which had been adopted in the period 1961 until Indonesian administration began in May 1963 under the New York Agreement. The militant movement is considered as a separatist in Indonesia, and agitating for independence for the provinces has incurred charges of treason.\n\nDuring World War II, the Netherlands East Indies (later Indonesia) were guided by Sukarno to supply oil for the Japanese war effort and subsequently declared independence as the Republic of Indonesia on 17 August 1945. The Netherlands New Guinea (Western New Guinea) and Australian administered territories of Papua and British New Guinea resisted Japanese control and were allies with the American and Australian forces during the Pacific War.\n\nThe pre-war relationship of the Netherlands and Netherlands New Guinea was replaced with the promotion of Papuan civil and other services until Indonesian administration began in 1963. Though there was agreement between Australia and the Netherlands by 1957 that it would be preferable for their territories to unite for independence, the lack of development in the Australian territories and the interests of the United States kept the two regions separate. The OPM was founded in December 1963, with the announcement that \"We do not want modern life! We refuse any kinds of development: religious groups, aid agencies, and governmental organizations just Leave Us Alone!\"\n\nNetherlands New Guinea held elections in January 1961 and a New Guinea Council was inaugurated in April 1961. However, in Washington, D.C. there was a desire for Indonesia to release CIA pilot Allen Pope, there was a proposal for United Nations trusteeship of West New Guinea, Indonesian President Sukarno said he was willing 'to borrow the hand of the United Nations to transfer the territory to Indonesia', and the National Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy began to lobby U.S President John F. Kennedy to get the administration of West New Guinea transferred to Indonesia. The resulting New York Agreement was drafted by Robert Kennedy and signed by the Netherlands and Indonesia before being approved subject to the \"Charter of the United Nations\" article 85 in \"General Assembly resolution 1752\" on 21 September 1962.\n\nAlthough the Netherlands had insisted the West New Guinea people be allowed self-determination in accord with the United Nations charter and General Assembly which was to be called the \"Act of Free Choice\"; the New York Agreement instead provided a seven year delay and gave the United Nations no authority to supervise the act. Separatist groups raise the West Papua Morning Star flag each year on 1 December, which they call \"Papuan independence day\". An Indonesian police officer speculated that people doing this could be charged with the crime of treason, which carries the penalty of imprisonment for seven to twenty years in Indonesia.\n\nIn October 1968, Nicolaas Jouwe, member of the New Guinea Council and of the National Committee elected by the Council in 1962, lobbied the United Nations claiming 30,000 Indonesian troops and thousands of Indonesian civil servants were repressing the Papuan population. According to US Ambassador Galbraith, the Indonesian Foreign Minister Adam Malik also believed the Indonesian military was the cause of problems in the territory and the number of troops should be reduced by at least one half. Ambassador Galbraith further described the OPM to \"represent an amorphous mass of anti-Indonesia sentiment\" and that \"possibly 85 to 90 percent [of Papuans], are in sympathy with the Free Papua cause or at least intensely dislike Indonesians\".\n\nIndonesian Brigadier General Sarwo Edhie oversaw the design and conduct of the Act of Free Choice which took place from 14 July to 2 August 1969. The United Nations representative Ambassador Oritiz Sanz arrived on 22 August 1968 and made repeated requests for Indonesia to allow a one man, one vote system (a process known as a referendum or plebiscite) but these requests were refused on the grounds that such activity was not specified nor requested by the 1962 New York Agreement. One thousand and twenty five Papuan elders were selected from and instructed on the required procedure as specified by the article 1962 New York Agreement. The result was a consensus for integration into Indonesia.\n\nIn response, Oom Nicolas Jouwe and two OPM commanders, Seth Jafeth Roemkorem and Jacob Hendrik Prai, planned to announce Papuan Independence in 1971. On 1 July 1971 Roemkorem and Prai declared a \"Republic of West Papua\", and drafted a constitution.\n\nConflicts over strategy between Roemkorem and Prai soon initiated a split of the OPM into two factions; the PEMKA led by Prai, and TPN led by Roemkorem. This greatly weakened OPM's ability as a centralized combat force. It remains widely used, however, invoked by both contemporary fighters and domestic and expatriate political activists.\n\nStarting from 1976, officials at mining company Freeport Indonesia received letters from the OPM threatening the company and demanding assistance in a planned uprising in the spring. The company refused to cooperate with OPM. From July until 7 September 1977, OPM insurgents carried out their threats against Freeport and cut slurry and fuel pipelines, slashed telephone and power cables, burned down a warehouse, and detonated explosives at various facilities. Freeport estimated the damage at $US123,871.23.\n\nIn 1982 a OPM Revolutionary Council (OPMRC) was established, and under the chairmanship of Moses Werror the OPMRC has sought independence through a campaign of international diplomacy. OPMRC aims to obtain international recognition for West Papuan independence through international forums such as the United Nations, The Non-Aligned Movement of Nations, The South Pacific Forum and The Association of South East Asian Nations.\n\nIn 1984 OPM staged an attack on Jayapura, the provincial capital and a city dominated by non-Melanesian Indonesians. The attack was quickly repelled by the Indonesian military, who followed it with broader counter-insurgency activity. This triggered an exodus of Papuan refugees, apparently supported by the OPM, into camps across the border in Papua New Guinea.\n\nOn 14 February 1986, Freeport Indonesia received information that the OPM was again becoming active in their area, and that some of Freeport's employees were OPM members or sympathisers. On 18 February, a letter signed by a \"Rebel General\" warned that \"On Wed. 19th, there will be some rain on Tembagapura\". At around 22:00 that night several unidentified people cut Freeport's slurry and fuel pipelines by hacksaw, causing \"a substantial loss of slurry, containing copper, silver and gold ores and diesel fuel.\" Additionally, the saboteurs set fire along the breaks in the fuel line, and shot at police that tried to approach the fires. On 14 April of that same year, OPM insurgents cut more pipelines, slashed electric wires, vandalised plumbing, and burned equipment tyres. Repair crews were attacked by OPM gunfire as they approached the sites of the damage, so Freeport requested police and military assistance.\n\nIn separate incidents in January and August 1996, OPM captured European and Indonesian hostages; first from a research group and later from a logging camp. Two hostages from the former group were killed and the rest were released.\n\nIn July 1998 the OPM raised their independence flag at the Kota Biak water tower on the island of Biak. They stayed there for the following few days before the Indonesian Military broke up the group. Filep Karma was among those arrested.\n\nOn 24 October 2011, Adj. Comr. Dominggus Oktavianus Awes, the Mulia Police chief, was shot by unknown assailants at Mulia Airport in Puncak Jaya regency. The National Police of Indonesia alleged that the perpetrators were members of the Free Papua Movement (OPM) separatist group. The series of attacks prompted deployments of more personnel to Papua.\n\nOn 21 January 2012, armed men, believed to be members of OPM, shot and killed a civilian who was running a roadside kiosk. He was a trans migrant from West Sumatra.\n\nOn 8 January 2012, OPM conducted an attack on a public bus which caused the death of three civilians and one member of an Indonesian security force. Four others were also injured.\n\nOn 31 January 2012, an OPM member was caught carrying of drugs on the Indonesian – Papua New Guinea Border. It was alleged that the drugs were intended to be sold in the city of Jayapura.\n\nOn 8 April 2012, Indonesian media sources alleged that armed members of OPM carried out an attack on a civilian aircraft flown by Trigana Air on a scheduled service after it landed and was taxiing towards an apron at Mulia Airport on Puncak Jaya, Papua. Five armed OPM militants suddenly opened fire on the moving plane, causing it to go out of control and crash into a building. One person who died, Leiron Kogoya, a journalist for Papua Pos, had suffered a neck gunshot wound. Amongst those wounded were the pilot, Beby Astek, and co-pilot, Willy Resubun, both wounded by shrapnel; Yanti Korwa, a housewife who was hurt by shrapnel on her right arm, and her four-year-old infant, Pako Korwa, who was afflicted by shrapnel on his left hand. In response to the allegations, West Papuan media sources denied that the OPM was responsible for the attack, alleging that the Indonesian military had attacked the plane as a part of a false flag operation.\n\nThe internal organisation of OPM is difficult to determine. In 1996 OPM's 'Supreme Commander' was Mathias Wenda. An OPM spokesperson in Sydney, John Otto Ondawame, says it has nine more or less independent commands. Australian freelance journalist, Ben Bohane, says it has seven independent commands. Tentara Nasional Indonesia (TNI), Indonesia's army, says the OPM has two main wings, the 'Victoria Headquarters' and 'Defenders of Truth'. The former is small, and was led by M L Prawar until he was shot dead in 1991. The latter is much larger and operates all over West Papua.\n\nThe larger organisation, or 'Defender of the Truth' or Pembela Kebenaran (henceforth PEMKA), was chaired by Jacob Prai, and Seth Roemkorem was the leader of Victoria Faction. During the killing of Prawar, Roemkorem was his commander.\n\nPrior to this separation, TPN/OPM was one, under the leadership of Seth Roemkorem as the Commander of OPM, then the President of West Papua Provisional Government, while Jacob Prai as the Head of Senate. OPM reached its peak in organisation and management as it was structurally well organised. During this time, the Senegal Government recognised the presence of OPM and allowed OPM to open its embassy in Dakhar, with Tanggahma as the ambassador.\n\nDue to the rivalry, Roemkorem left his base and went to the Netherlands. During this time, Prai took over the leadership. John Otto Ondawame, who had left his law school in Jayapura because of being followed and threatened with death by the Indonesian ABRI day and night, became the right-hand man of Jacob Prai. It was Prai's initiative to establish OPM Regional Commanders. He appointed nine of them, most of whom were members of his own troops at the PEMKA headquarter, Skotiau, Vanimo-West Papua border.\n\nOf those regional commanders, Mathias Wenda was the commander for region II (Jayapura – Wamena), Kelly Kwalik for Nemangkawi (Fakfak regency), Tadeus Yogi (Paniai Regency), and Bernardus Mawen for Maroke region. These commanders have been active ever since, with the exception of Kelly Kwalik who was shot and killed on 16 December 2009.\n\nIn 2009, an OPM command group led by General Goliath Tabuni (Puncak Jaya Regency) was featured on an undercover report about the West Papuan independence movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857948", "title": "Generalized other", "text": "Generalized other\n\nThe generalized other is a concept introduced by George Herbert Mead into the social sciences, and used especially in the field of symbolic interactionism. It is the general notion that a person has of the common expectations that others have about actions and thoughts within a particular society, and thus serves to clarify their relation to the other as a representative member of a shared social system.\n\nAny time that an actor tries to imagine what is expected of them, they are taking on the perspective of the generalized other.\n\nMead's concept of the generalised other has been linked to Adam Smith's notion of the impartial spectator – itself rooted in the earlier thinking of Addison and Epictectus.\n\nAdam Smith wrote: \"We Conceive ourselves as acting in the presence of a person quite candid and equitable, of one who...is meerly a man in general, an impartial Spectator who considers our conduct with the same indifference with which we regard that of other people\".\n\nMead began by contrasting the experience of role-play and pretence in early childhood, in which one role simply gives way to a different one without any continuity, with that of the organised game: \"in the latter\", he stated, \"the child must have the attitude of all the others involved in that game\". He saw the organised game as vital for the formation of a mature sense of self, which can only be achieved by learning to respond to, and take on board, the others' attitudes toward the (changing) common undertakings they are involved in: i.e. the generalized other.\n\nMead argued that \"in the game we get an organized other, a generalized other, which is found in the nature of the child itself...in the case of such a social group as a ball team, the team is the generalized other in so far as it enters – as an organized process or social activity – into the experience of any one of the individual members of it\".\n\nBy seeing things from an anonymous perspective, that of the other, the child may eventually be able to visualize the intentions and expectations of others, and see him/herself from the point of view of groups of others – the viewpoint of the generalized other.\n\nThe attitude of the generalized other is the attitude of the larger community. According to Mead, the generalized other is the vehicle by which we are linked to society.\n\nArguably, a modern differentiated society contains as many generalized others as there are social groupings: as Mead put it, \"every individual member of any given human society, of course, belongs to a large number of such different functional groups\". The result is that everybody will articulate aspects of the range of socio-cultural values in their own way, taking on the perspectives of a set of generalized others in a unique synthesis.\n\nWith rising levels of socialisation and individuation, more and more people, and more and more aspects of the self come into play in the dialectic of self and generalized other.\n\nAs a concept, the generalised other is roughly equivalent to the idea of the Freudian superego. It has also been compared to Lacan's use of the Name of the Father, as the third party created by the presence of social convention, law, and language in all human interaction. It is also similar to Bakhtin's (Superaddressee) \"superaddressee\" presumed to receive and understand human communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "598429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598429", "title": "Goodwill ambassador", "text": "Goodwill ambassador\n\nA goodwill ambassador may be an individual from one country who resides in or travels to another country, in a diplomatic mission (or international friendship mission) at a peer to peer level; that is: country to country, state to state, city to city; or, as an intermediary representing the people at the other extreme of an organization.\n\nGoodwill ambassadors have been an official (or unofficial) part of governments and cultures for as long as diplomacy has existed; to exchange gifts and presents; humanitarian relief; or development aid, using well-known celebrities, scientists, authors, known activists, and other high society figures. Goodwill missions of countries are usually carried out or overseen by the head of state, and do not necessarily involve diplomatic credentials beyond a letter of presentation (or letter of credence). However, some states, such as Haiti, do issue credentials that include diplomatic immunity for goodwill ambassadors.\n\nA wide range of organizations employ goodwill ambassadors to promote their programs and reach out to others with programs that are based on good relations, from multinational groups such as the United Nations and United Nations Associations, the African Union and the European Union, through nations and subnational groups (for example the United States and individual states, for example the role played by Tennessee's ambassadors of goodwill and Kentucky's Kentucky Colonel). Goodwill ambassadors are also used by social and fundraising organizations such as Rotary International, the Olympic Games, the Muscular Dystrophy Association, and the organization of goodwill ambassadors, Globcal International. A wide range of United Nations organizations and other intergovernmental organizations that have an observer status also have goodwill ambassador programs, for example the UN Development Programme, UNESCO, UNICEF and the World Health Organization.\n\nNumerous governmental and nongovernmental organizations employing goodwill ambassadors follow a practice of honoring individuals with goodwill ambassador awards. Awards are given for good relations, fundraising/philanthropic acts, and for recognition in advocacy. For example, comedian Trevor Noah received a South African Goodwill Ambassador Award in 2015, actress Alex Okoroji received a Nigeria Goodwill Ambassador Award in 2017, and the Steve Irwin Memorial Goodwill Ambassador Award was established in 2007. Former First Lady of Nigeria, Patience Jonathan became a goodwill ambassador after receiving the African Goodwill Ambassador Award in Los Angeles in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "3649660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3649660", "title": "Government-organized non-governmental organization", "text": "Government-organized non-governmental organization\n\nA government-organized non-governmental organization (GONGO) is a non-governmental organization that was set up or sponsored by a government in order to further its political interests and mimic the civic groups and civil society at home, or promote its international or geopolitical interests abroad.\n\nThe term GONGO had become established by the late 1980s, and it was suggested that it was first introduced by a group of Indonesian non-governmental organizations.\n\nA government-organized non-governmental organization (GONGO) can be created for any sound political or social purpose, however, in reality, it would be functioning as a mechanism of the government to further its domestic political interests and realize its economic and foreign policy objectives. Sometimes, GONGOs are created to solicit international aid, or mitigate specific humanitarian issues. Though not necessarily confined to developing countries, most often, GONGOs are set up by undemocratic governments to maintain some level of control of a GONGO's personnel, purpose, operation or activities. This control is often not seen in a positive light, as it compromises the spirit of an NGO by introducing hidden actors and withholding the government's intentions from the public.\n\nExamples of government-organized non-governmental organization:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16463132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16463132", "title": "Healthcare reform in the United States", "text": "Healthcare reform in the United States\n\nHealthcare reform in the United States has a long history. Reforms have often been proposed but have rarely been accomplished. In 2010, landmark reform was passed through two federal statutes enacted in 2010: the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), signed March 23, 2010, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (), which amended the PPACA and became law on March 30, 2010.\n\nFuture reforms of the American health care system continue to be proposed, with notable proposals including a single-payer system and a reduction in fee-for-service medical care. The PPACA includes a new agency, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, which is intended to research reform ideas through pilot projects.\n\nHere is a summary of reform achievements at the national level in the United States. For failed efforts, state-based efforts, native tribes services and more details generally, see the main article History of health care reform in the United States.\n\nInternational comparisons of healthcare have found that the United States spends more per-capita than other similarly developed nations but falls below similar countries in various health metrics, suggesting inefficiency and waste. In addition, the United States has significant underinsurance and significant impending unfunded liabilities from its aging demographic and its social insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid (Medicaid provides free long-term care to the elderly poor). The fiscal and human impact of these issues have motivated reform proposals.\n\nU.S. healthcare costs were approximately $3.2 trillion or nearly $10,000 per person on average in 2015. Major categories of expense include hospital care (32%), physician and clinical services (20%), and prescription drugs (10%). U.S. costs in 2016 were substantially higher than other OECD countries, at 17.2% GDP versus 12.4% GDP for the next most expensive country (Switzerland). For scale, a 5% GDP difference represents about $1 trillion or $3,000 per person. Some of the many reasons cited for the cost differential with other countries include: Higher administrative costs of a private system with multiple payment processes; higher costs for the same products and services; more expensive volume/mix of services with higher usage of more expensive specialists; aggressive treatment of very sick elderly versus palliative care; less use of government intervention in pricing; and higher income levels driving greater demand for healthcare. Healthcare costs are a fundamental driver of health insurance costs, which leads to coverage affordability challenges for millions of families. There is ongoing debate whether the current law (ACA/Obamacare) and the Republican alternatives (AHCA and BCRA) do enough to address the cost challenge.\n\nAccording to 2009 World Bank statistics, the U.S. had the highest health care costs relative to the size of the economy (GDP) in the world, even though estimated 50 million citizens (approximately 16% of the September 2011 estimated population of 312 million) lacked insurance. In March 2010, billionaire Warren Buffett commented that the high costs paid by U.S. companies for their employees' health care put them at a competitive disadvantage.\nFurther, an estimated 77 million Baby Boomers are reaching retirement age, which combined with significant annual increases in healthcare costs per person will place enormous budgetary strain on U.S. state and federal governments, particularly through Medicare and Medicaid spending (Medicaid provides long-term care for the elderly poor). Maintaining the long-term fiscal health of the U.S. federal government is significantly dependent on healthcare costs being controlled.\n\nIn addition, the number of employers who offer health insurance has declined and costs for employer-paid health insurance are rising: from 2001 to 2007, premiums for family coverage increased 78%, while wages rose 19% and prices rose 17%, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Even for those who are employed, the private insurance in the US varies greatly in its coverage; one study by the Commonwealth Fund published in Health Affairs estimated that 16 million U.S. adults were underinsured in 2003. The underinsured were significantly more likely than those with adequate insurance to forgo health care, report financial stress because of medical bills, and experience coverage gaps for such items as prescription drugs. The study found that underinsurance disproportionately affects those with lower incomes—73% of the underinsured in the study population had annual incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level. However, a study published by the Kaiser Family Foundation in 2008 found that the typical large employer preferred provider organization (PPO) plan in 2007 was more generous than either Medicare or the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Standard Option. One indicator of the consequences of Americans' inconsistent health care coverage is a study in \"Health Affairs\" that concluded that half of personal bankruptcys involved medical bills, although other sources dispute this.\n\nThere are health losses from insufficient health insurance. A 2009 Harvard study published in the American Journal of Public Health found more than 44,800 excess deaths annually in the United States due to Americans lacking health insurance. More broadly, estimates of the total number of people in the United States, whether insured or uninsured, who die because of lack of medical care were estimated in a 1997 analysis to be nearly 100,000 per year. A study of the effects of the Massachusetts universal health care law (which took effect in 2006) found a 3% drop in mortality among people 20–64 years old—1 death per 830 people with insurance. Other studies, just as those examining the randomized distribution of Medicaid insurance to low-income people in Oregon in 2008, found no change in death rate.\n\nThe cost of insurance has been a primary motivation in the reform of the US healthcare system, and many different explanations have been proposed in the reasons for high insurance costs and how to remedy them. One critique and motivation for healthcare reform has been the development of the medical–industrial complex. This relates to moral arguments for health care reform, framing healthcare as a social good, one that is fundamentally immoral to deny to people based on economic status. The motivation behind healthcare reform in response to the medical-industrial complex also stems from issues of social inequity, promotion of medicine over preventative care. The medical-industrial complex, defined as a network of health insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, and the like, plays a role in the complexity of the US insurance market and a fine line between government and industry within it. Likewise, critiques of insurance markets being conducted under a capitalistic, free-market model also include that medical solutions, as opposed to preventative healthcare measures, are promoted to maintain this medical-industrial complex. Arguments for a market-based approach to health insurance include the Grossman model, which is based on an ideal competitive model, but others have critiqued this, arguing that fundamentally, this means that people in higher socioeconomic levels will receive a better quality of healthcare.\n\n\nAnother concern is the rate of uninsured people in the US. In June 2014, Gallup–Healthways Well–Being conducted a survey and found that the uninsured rate is going down. 13 percent of U.S. adults are uninsured in 2014. This is a decrease from the percentage at 17 percent in January 2014 and translates to roughly 10 million to 11 million individuals who gained coverage. The survey also looked at the major demographic groups and found each is making progress towards getting health insurance. However, Hispanics, who have the highest uninsured rate of any racial or ethnic group, are lagging in their progress. Under the new health care reform, Latinos were expected to be major beneficiaries of the new health care law. Gallup found that the biggest drop in the uninsured rate (3 percentage points) was among households making less than $36,000 a year.\n\nIn December 2011 the outgoing Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Donald Berwick, asserted that 20% to 30% of health care spending is waste. He listed five causes for the waste: (1) overtreatment of patients, (2) the failure to coordinate care, (3) the administrative complexity of the health care system, (4) burdensome rules and (5) fraud.\n\nAn estimated 3–10% of all health care expenditures in the U.S. are fraudulent. In 2011, Medicare and Medicaid made $65 billion in improper payments (including both error and fraud). Government efforts to reduce fraud include $4 billion in fraudulent payments recovered by the Department of Justice and the FBI in 2012, longer jail sentences specified by the Affordable Care Act, and Senior Medicare Patrols—volunteers trained to identify and report fraud.\n\nIn 2007, the Department of Justice and Health and Human Services formed the Medicare Fraud Strike Force to combat fraud through data analysis and increased community policing. As of May 2013, the Strike Force has charged more than 1,500 people for false billings of more than $5 billion. Medicare fraud often takes the form of kickbacks and money-laundering. Fraud schemes often take the form of billing for medically unnecessary services or services not rendered.\n\nThere is significant debate regarding the quality of the U.S. healthcare system relative to those of other countries. Physicians for a National Health Program, a pro-universal single-payer system of health care advocacy group, has claimed that a free market solution to health care provides a lower quality of care, with higher mortality rates, than publicly funded systems. The quality of health maintenance organizations and managed care have also been criticized by this same group.\n\nAccording to a 2000 study of the World Health Organization, publicly funded systems of industrial nations spend less on health care, both as a percentage of their GDP and per capita, and enjoy superior population-based health care outcomes. However, conservative commentator David Gratzer and the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, have both criticized the WHO's comparison method for being biased; the WHO study marked down countries for having private or fee-paying health treatment and rated countries by comparison to their expected health care performance, rather than objectively comparing quality of care.\n\nSome medical researchers say that patient satisfaction surveys are a poor way to evaluate medical care. Researchers at the RAND Corporation and the Department of Veterans Affairs asked 236 elderly patients in two different managed care plans to rate their care, then examined care in medical records, as reported in Annals of Internal Medicine. There was no correlation. \"Patient ratings of health care are easy to obtain and report, but do not accurately measure the technical quality of medical care,\" said John T. Chang, UCLA, lead author.\n\nPublic opinion polls have shown a majority of the public supports various levels of government involvement in health care in the United States, with stated preferences depending on how the question is asked. Polls from Harvard University in 1988, the Los Angeles Times in 1990, and the Wall Street Journal in 1991 all showed strong support for a health care system compared to the system in Canada. More recently, however, polling support has declined for that sort of health care system, with a 2007 Yahoo/AP poll showing a majority of respondents considered themselves supporters of \"single-payer health care,\" a majority in favor of a number of reforms according to a joint poll with the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Bloomberg\", and a plurality of respondents in a 2009 poll for Time Magazine showed support for \"a national single-payer plan similar to Medicare for all.\" Polls by Rasmussen Reports in 2011 and 2012 showed pluralities opposed to single-payer health care. Many other polls show support for various levels of government involvement in health care, including polls from \"New York Times\"/CBS News and \"Washington Post\"/ABC News, showing favorability for a form of national health insurance. The Kaiser Family Foundation showed a majority in favor of a form of national health insurance, often compared to Medicare, and a Quinnipiac poll in three states in 2008 found majority support for the government ensuring \"that everyone in the United States has adequate health-care\" among likely Democratic primary voters.\n\nA 2001 article in the public health journal \"Health Affairs\" studied fifty years of American public opinion of various health care plans and concluded that, while there appears to be general support of a \"national health care plan,\" poll respondents \"remain satisfied with their current medical arrangements, do not trust the federal government to do what is right, and do not favor a single-payer type of national health plan.\" Politifact rated a statement by Michael Moore \"false\" when he stated that \"[t]he majority actually want single-payer health care.\" According to Politifact, responses on these polls largely depend on the wording. For example, people respond more favorably when they are asked if they want a system \"like Medicare\".\n\nAfter campaigning on the promise of health care reform, President Barack Obama gave a speech in March 2010 at a rally in Pennsylvania explaining the necessity of health insurance reform and calling on Congress to hold a final up or down vote on reform. The result of his efforts was the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Because Obama's party did not have a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate, the law was amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 using the reconciliation process in which debate in the Senate is limited and the filibuster is therefore not permitted.\n\nThe legislation remains controversial, with some states challenging it in federal court and opposition from some voters. In June 2012, in a 5–4 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court found major portions of the law to be constitutional. However, the law continues to face legal challenges. The latest attempt at reversing the Affordable Care Act occurred during the Government Shutdown on October 1, 2013. Government officials that oppose the ACA tried to make approval of a bill to reopen the government contingent on the demise of the ACA. This attempt met with failure and the government reopened on November 16, 2013.\n\nAs a result of the law, insurance companies can no longer charge members based on gender. A study by the National Institutes of Health reported that the lifetime per capita expenditure at birth, using year 2000 dollars, showed a large difference between health care costs of females ($361,192) and males ($268,679). A large portion of this cost difference is in the shorter lifespan of men, but even after adjustment for age (assume men live as long as women), there still is a 20% difference in lifetime health care expenditures.\n\nThe act's provisions become effective over time. The most significant changes, particularly affecting the availability and terms of insurance become effective January 1, 2014. These include an expansion of Medicaid (at the option of each state) to those without dependent children and subsidized healthcare exchanges. Changes which occur earlier include allowing dependents to remain on their plan until 26, limitations on rescission (dropping insureds when they get sick), removal of lifetime coverage limits, mandates that insurers fully cover certain preventative services, high-risk pools for uninsureds, tax credits for businesses to provide insurance to employees, an insurance company rate review program, and minimum medical loss ratios.\n\nThe law creates the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to study comparative effectiveness research funded by a fee on insurers per covered life (starting at $1, increasing to $2 and thereafter adjusted according to an index). It also allowed the FDA to approve generic biologic drugs and specifically allows for 12 years of exclusive use for newly developed biologic drugs.\n\nIn addition, the law explores some programs intended to increase incentives to provide quality and collaborative care, such as accountable care organizations. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation was created to fund pilot programs which may reduce costs; the experiments cover nearly every idea healthcare experts advocate, except malpractice/tort reform. The law also requires for reduced Medicare reimbursements for hospitals with excess readmissions and eventually ties physician Medicare reimbursements to quality of care metrics.\n\nThe law is also designed to complement the 2009 HITECH Act which encourages the \"meaningful use\" of electronic health records; for example, the law directs the government to make use of these records for analyzing healthcare provider quality.\n\nThe Affordable Care Act also aims to promote access to preventative healthcare. Through providing access to screenings for diseases like breast cancer, promoting health in the workplace, and community preventative health, the Affordable Care Act contains sections that advance and promote preventative health initiatives.\n\nThere are alternatives to the exchange-based market system which was enacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which have been proposed in the past and continue to be proposed, such as a single-payer system and allowing health insurance to be regulated at the federal level.\n\nIn addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act of 2010 contained provisions which allows the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to undertake pilot projects which, if they are successful could be implemented in future.\n\nA number of proposals have been made for a universal single-payer healthcare system in the United States, most recently the United States National Health Care Act, (popularly known as H.R. 676 or \"Medicare for All\") but none have achieved more political support than 20% congressional co-sponsorship. Advocates argue that preventative health care expenditures can save several hundreds of billions of dollars per year because publicly funded universal health care would benefit employers and consumers, that employers would benefit from a bigger pool of potential customers and that employers would likely pay less, and would be spared administrative costs of health care benefits. It is also argued that inequities between employers would be reduced. Also, for example, cancer patients are more likely to be diagnosed at Stage I where curative treatment is typically a few outpatient visits, instead of at Stage III or later in an emergency room where treatment can involve years of hospitalization and is often terminal. Others have estimated a long-term savings amounting to 40% of all national health expenditures due to preventative health care, although estimates from the Congressional Budget Office and \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" have found that preventative care is more expensive.\n\nAny national system would be paid for in part through taxes replacing insurance premiums, but advocates also believe savings would be realized through preventative care and the elimination of insurance company overhead and hospital billing costs. An analysis of a single-payer bill by the Physicians for a National Health Program estimated the immediate savings at $350 billion per year. The Commonwealth Fund believes that, if the United States adopted a universal health care system, the mortality rate would improve and the country would save approximately $570 billion a year.\n\nRecent enactments of single-payer systems within individual states, such as in Vermont in 2011, may serve as living models supporting federal single-payer coverage. The plan in Vermont, however, has failed.\n\nOn June 1, 2017, in light of the recent Trump Administration’s efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, California Democratic Senator Ricardo Lara proposed a bill to establish single-payer healthcare within the state of California (SB 562), calling on fellow senators to act quickly in defense of healthcare. The legislation would implement “Medicare for All,” placing all levels of healthcare in the hands of the state. The bill proposed to the California Senate by Senator Lara lacked a method of funding required to finance the $400 billion-dollar policy. Despite this lack of foresight, the bill gained approval from the senate and will move on to await approval by the state assembly.\n\nIn wake of the Affordable Care Act, the state of California has experienced the greatest rise in newly insured people compared to other states. Subsequently, the number of physicians under MediCal are not enough to meet the demand, therefore 25% of physicians care for 80% of patients who are covered through MediCal\n\nIn the past, California has struggled to maintain healthcare effectiveness, due in part to its unstable budget and complex regulations. The state has a policy in place known as the Gann Limit, otherwise entitled proposition 98, which ensures that a portion of state funds are directed towards the education system. This limit would be exceeded if California raises taxes to fund the new system which would require $100 billion in tax revenue. In order to avoid legal dispute, voters would be required to amend proposition 98 and exempt healthcare funding from required educational contributions. The state announced on August 1, 2017 that coverage for health insurance will increase by 12.5% in next year, threatening the coverage of 1.5 million people \n\nIn January 2013, Representative Jan Schakowsky and 44 other U.S. House of Representatives Democrats introduced , the \"Public Option Deficit Reduction Act\" which would amend the 2010 Affordable Care Act to create a public option. The bill would set up a government-run health insurance plan with premiums 5% to 7% percent lower than private insurance. The Congressional Budget Office estimated it would reduce the United States public debt by $104 billion over 10 years.\n\nThe Medicare Graduate Medical Education program regulates the supply of medical doctors in the U.S. By adjusting the reimbursement rates to establish more income equality among the medical professions, the effective cost of medical care can be lowered.\n\nA key project is one that could radically change the way the medical profession is paid for services under Medicare and Medicaid. The current system, which is also the prime system used by medical insurers is known as fee-for-service because the medical practitioner is paid only for the performance of medical procedures which, it is argued means that doctors have a financial incentive to do more tests (which generates more income) which may not be in the patients' best long-term interest. The current system encourages medical interventions such as surgeries and prescribed medicines (all of which carry some risk for the patient but increase revenues for the medical care industry) and does not reward other activities such as encouraging behavioral changes such as modifying dietary habits and quitting smoking, or follow-ups regarding prescribed regimes which could have better outcomes for the patient at a lower cost. The current fee-for-service system also rewards bad hospitals for bad service. Some have noted that the best hospitals have fewer re-admission rates than others, which benefits patients, but some of the worst hospitals have high re-admission rates which is bad for patients but is perversely rewarded under the fee-for-service system.\n\nProjects at CMS are examining the possibility of rewarding health care providers through a process known as \"bundled payments\" by which local doctors and hospitals in an area would be paid not on a fee for service basis but on a capitation system linked to outcomes. The areas with the best outcomes would get more. This system, it is argued, makes medical practitioners much more concerned to focus on activities that deliver real health benefits at a lower cost to the system by removing the perversities inherent in the fee-for-service system.\n\nThough aimed as a model for health care funded by CMS, if the project is successful it is thought that the model could be followed by the commercial health insurance industry also.\n\nDonald Trump was elected President on a platform that included a pledge to \"repeal and replace\" the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (commonly called the Affordable Care Act or Obamacare). To that end it is supporting the proposed American Health Care Act (AHCA), developed by the House of Representatives. The administration has suggested that the AHCA is only part of its reform efforts. Other proposals include allowing interstate competition in the health insurance market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4731056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4731056", "title": "Hepting v. AT&amp;T", "text": "Hepting v. AT&amp;T\n\nHepting v. AT&T is a United States class action lawsuit filed in January 2006 by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) against the telecommunications company AT&T, in which the EFF alleges that AT&T permitted and assisted the National Security Agency (NSA) in unlawfully monitoring the communications of the United States, including AT&T customers, businesses and third parties whose communications were routed through AT&T's network, as well as voice over IP telephone calls routed via the Internet.\n\nThe case is separate from, but related to, the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy, in which the federal government agency bypassed the courts to monitor U.S. phone calls without warrants. \"Hepting v. AT&T\" does not include the federal government as a party.\n\nIn July 2006, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California—in which the suit was filed—rejected a federal government motion to dismiss the case. The motion to dismiss, which invoked the state secrets privilege, had argued that any court review of the alleged partnership between the federal government and AT&T would harm national security.\n\nThe case was immediately appealed to the Ninth Circuit. It was dismissed on June 3, 2009, citing retroactive legislation in the FISA Amendments Act. On October 9, 2012, the Supreme Court of the United States declined to review \"Hepting\". The Electronic Frontier Foundation, however, vowed to continue working on a similar case, \"Jewel v. NSA\".\n\nIt is alleged in the lawsuit that in 2002-2003, AT&T permitted and assisted the NSA to install a NarusInsight system in its San Francisco switching center (Room 641A), which was capable of monitoring billions of bits of Internet traffic a second, including the playback of telephone calls routed on the Internet, and thus in effect spying upon the entirety of the communication of many or all American citizens and businesses who use the Internet.\n\nA former AT&T engineer, Mark Klein, attested that a supercomputer built by Narus was installed for the purpose, and that similar systems were also installed in at least Seattle, San Jose, Los Angeles and San Diego. \"Wired News\" states Klein said he came forward \"because he does not believe that the Bush administration is being truthful about the extent of its extrajudicial monitoring of Americans' communications\":\n\nDespite what we are hearing, and considering the public track record of this administration, I simply do not believe their claims that the NSA's spying program is really limited to foreign communications or is otherwise consistent with the NSA's charter or with FISA ... And unlike the controversy over targeted wiretaps of individuals' phone calls, this potential spying appears to be applied wholesale to all sorts of Internet communications of countless citizens.\n\nThe EFF alleges in the suit that AT&T also allowed the NSA to data-mine hundreds of terabytes of client records which included detailed transaction records such as domestic numbers dialed since 2001, and all Internet addresses visited, as well as other content. The EFF's attorney Kevin Bankston states:\n\nOur goal is to go after the people who are making the government's illegal surveillance possible ... They could not do what they are doing without the help of companies like AT&T. We want to make it clear to AT&T that it is not in their legal or economic interests to violate the law whenever the president asks them to.\n\nIn its amended complaint, the EFF seeks injunctive relief against AT&T continuing such surveillance and damages allowed under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and other U.S. laws. It also seeks aggregated damages under each of four laws. These would exceed $100,000 for each instance of surveillance, creating potentially ruinous liability for AT&T, considering the EFF's claims about the scope of AT&T's cooperation.\n\nAT&T objected to the filing of the documents supporting the case on the grounds they were trade secrets or might compromise the security of its network. The EFF speculated that the federal government would invoke the state secrets privilege to bar the entire lawsuit from being heard, but added: \"If state secrecy can prevent us from preserving the rights of millions upon millions of people, then there is a profound problem with the law.\"\n\nEFF's speculation proved accurate when the government indicated, in an April 28 statement of interest in the case, that it intended to invoke the state secrets privilege in a bid to dismiss the action. The Justice Department filed its motion to dismiss on May 15, 2006. On July 20, however, Chief Judge Vaughn Walker of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California rejected the federal motion, holding that \"[t]he government has opened the door for judicial inquiry by publicly confirming and denying material information about its monitoring of communications content.\"\n\nIn his decision not to dismiss the case Judge Walker certified the case for immediate appeal, and the government and AT&T both appealed to the Ninth Circuit. The case was argued in August 2007.\n\nIn July 2008, Congress passed, and on July 10, 2008, President George Bush signed, the FISA Amendments Act, which granted retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies for past violations of FISA. Before any Ninth Circuit decision, the case was returned to the District Court \"[i]n light of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008.\" In September 2008, Attorney General Michael Mukasey filed a certification pursuant to Section 802 of the FISAAA and the government moved to dismiss the Hepting litigation.\n\nThe Hepting plaintiffs opposed the motion to dismiss, asserting that the FISA Amendments Act's retroactive immunity provision was unconstitutional. Judge Walker heard oral arguments on December 2, 2008, and took the matter under submission.\n\nThe case was dismissed on June 3, 2009 by Judge Walker, citing retroactive legislation (section 802 of FISA) stating that\n\nThe case went under review in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals by a three judge panel (Harry Pregerson, Michael Daly Hawkins, and M. Margaret McKeown). The argument was heard in Seattle, Washington on August 31, 2011. It was dismissed on December 29, 2011, and some issues in the case were submitted as a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court on March 30, 2012. The Supreme Court, however, declined to review the lower court ruling on the case on October 9, 2012, closing the door on further appeals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451902", "title": "Iron triangle (US politics)", "text": "Iron triangle (US politics)\n\nIn United States politics, the iron triangle comprises the policy-making relationship among the congressional committees, the bureaucracy, and interest groups.\n\nCentral to the concept of an iron triangle is the assumption that bureaucratic agencies, as political entities, seek to create and consolidate their own power base. In this view an agency's power is determined by its constituency, not by its consumers. (For these purposes, \"constituents\" are politically active members sharing a common interest or goal; \"consumers\" are the expected recipients of goods or services provided by a governmental bureaucracy and are often identified in an agency's written goals or mission statement.)\n\nApparent bureaucratic dysfunction may be attributable to the alliances formed between the agency and its constituency. The official goals of an agency may appear to be thwarted or ignored altogether at the expense of the citizenry it is designed to serve.\n\nThe need of a bureaucracy for a constituency sometimes leads to an agency's cultivation of a particular clientele. An agency may seek out those groups (within its policy jurisdiction) that will make the best allies and give it the most clout within the political arena.\n\nOften, especially in a low-level bureaucracy, the consumers (the supposed beneficiaries of an agency's services) do not qualify as power brokers and thus make poor constituents. Large segments of the public have diffused interests, seldom vote, may be rarely or poorly organized and difficult to mobilize, and are often lacking in resources or financial muscle. Less-educated and poorer citizens, for example, typically make the worst constituents from an agency's perspective.\n\nPrivate or special interest groups, on the other hand, possess considerable power as they tend to be well-organized, have plenty of resources, are easily mobilized, and are extremely active in political affairs, through voting, campaign contributions, and lobbying, as well as proposing legislation themselves.\n\nThus it may be in an agency's interest to switch its focus from its officially designated consumers to a carefully selected clientele of constituents that will aid the agency in its quest for greater political influence.\n\nIn the United States, power is exercised in the Congress, and particularly in congressional committees and subcommittees. By aligning itself with selected constituencies, an agency may be able to affect policy outcomes directly in these committees and subcommittees. This is where an iron triangle may manifest itself. The picture above displays the concept.\nAt one corner of the triangle are interest groups (constituencies). These are the powerful interest's groups that influence Congressional votes in their favor and can sufficiently influence the re-election of a member of Congress in return for supporting their programs. At another corner sit members of Congress who also seek to align themselves with a constituency for political and electoral support. These congressional members support legislation that advances the interest group's agenda. Occupying the third corner of the triangle are bureaucrats, who are often pressured by the same powerful interest groups their agency is designated to regulate. The result is a three-way, stable alliance that is sometimes called a sub-government because of its durability, impregnability, and power to determine policy.\nAn iron triangle can result in the passing of very narrow, pork-barrel policies that benefit a small segment of the population. The interests of the agency's constituency (the interest groups) are met, while the needs of consumers (which may be the general public) are passed over. That public administration may result in benefiting a small segment of the public in this way may be viewed as problematic for the popular concept of democracy if the general welfare of all citizens is sacrificed for very specific interests. This is especially so if the legislation passed neglects or reverses the original purpose for which the agency was established. Some maintain that such arrangements are consonant with (and are natural outgrowths of) the democratic process, since they frequently involve a majority block of voters implementing their will through their representatives in government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50773065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50773065", "title": "Islamic Society of Athletes", "text": "Islamic Society of Athletes\n\nIslamic Society of Athletes () is an Iranian principlist political party affiliated with the Front of Followers of the Line of the Imam and the Leader.\n"}
{"id": "24321639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24321639", "title": "List of permaculture projects", "text": "List of permaculture projects\n\nA permaculture project is a deployment of permaculture practices on an ongoing basis.\n\nInternational Permaculture Network in Africa, Mediterranean and the Middle East, \n\nThe Biofarming approach applied in Ethiopia has very similar features and can be considered permaculture. It is mainly promoted by the non-governmental organisation BEA, based in Addis Ababa.\n\nThe UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has produced a report on using permaculture in refugee situations after successful use in camps in Southern Africa and Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThere are 60 schools designed using permaculture, with a national team working within the schools' curriculum development unit.\n\nPermaculture in Malawi began in 1994. There is not yet a directory for Permaculturists and projects. \n\nAs of 2018, The largest compilation has 72 projects in the Sustainable Nutrition Manual which is free to download and use from: www.NeverEndingFood.org/Sustainable-Nutrition-Manual.\n\nThe Permaculture Network in Malawi is working on becoming registered and has started building from this to create a larger database which will be available soon. The network currently communicates through WhatsApp, Facebook, and Email.\n\nThe development of permaculture co-founder David Holmgren's home plot at Melliodora, Central Victoria, has been well documented.\nGeoff Lawton's Zaytuna Farm next to The Channon in northern NSW, Australia, is a 66-acre medium-farm scale example of permaculture implementation. It is the home base for the Permaculture Research Institute. Begun in 2001, the site is off-grid, and has multiple food forest systems, animal systems, kitchen garden and main crop areas, a large network of water-harvesting earthworks for passive hydration of the site, composting toilets, rocket stove powered showers, straw bale natural buildings, etc.\n\nCity Farm Perth is an example of community permaculture in an inner suburb of Perth, Western Australia. The farm was constructed on a brownfield site in 1994, and is a focal point for permaculture education, as well as community music and art.\n\nPermaculture Institute Asia (PIA) lists most all major permaculture projects and sites in the Asia region. Including Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Israel, Palestine, Japan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Lao, Malaysia, Micronesia, Nepal, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Vietnam, Brunei, Indonesia, Myanmar, Bhutan. Many of these sites show examples of Permaculture structures as food forests, integrated animal systems, kitchen gardens, bio intensive and other high yield food gardens, organic main crop areas, large networks of water-harvesting, earthworks designed for drought proofing and passive hydration of the land, many have composting toilets, rocket stoves, compost and/or solar hot water systems, and natural buildings made from local materials such as bamboo, adobe brick, rammed earth, wattle and daub, compressed earth block, super adobe, cord wood, straw bale, Earthship reclaimed materials, Hybrid structures many with Earthen floors, Green roofs and Natural Plasters and finishes.\n\nLiving Ecology and Permaculture Patashala provide higher education to permaculture professionals through practical permaculture projects in small villages. The drylands projects help poor rural farmers with sustainable agriculture and permaculture design implementation.\n\nPermaculture Institute Thailand (PIT) is (pined on Google maps) and is an institute representing Permaculture projects in Thailand. PIT an Internationally accredited with certificates for courses and internships in - Permaculture, Natural building and Bamboo, Aquaculture, Food forestry, Vermiculture, Urban Permaculture, Sustainable living skills, Energy and alternative technology, Permaculture as Aid, Drought and Climate proofing your home and farm. Practical skills in self-sufficiency.\n\nThe Phayao Permaculture Center, Phayao, Northern Thailand, is a permaculture project demonstrating permaculture design including education open to all interested in permaculture.\n\nThe Permaculture Research Institute Asia (PIA), located in Buri Ram Province, Thailand, is pined on Google maps, lists many of the Permaculture Projects in Asia. It is a permaculture demonstration and education site. Courses, internships and demonstration of permaculture design techniques, bio intensive gardening and farming methods and regenerative ecosystem designing. Integrated aquaculture and ducks with rice paddy, they show how higher diversity leads to higher yields and food security which can be obtained from rice fields/paddy in the Mekong Bio region.\n\nWWOOF Thailand is a volunteer hosting organization in Thailand with many Permaculture projects hosting volunteers. Host sites teach and practice Permaculture and agro-ecological and integrated farming techniques. In Thailand traditional family farming methods are called \"Natural Farming\". These methods often overlap with Permaculture methods, but with Permaculture adding recent technological and research findings and new methods of sustainable farming.\n\nBumi Langit Institute is an initiative representing Permaculture projects in Indonesia, resided in Yogyakarta. The Institute founded by Iskandar Waworuntu Alhajj an environmentalist veteran in 2006. International and national courses and residencies as well as natural building, aquaculture, food forestry, vermiculture, bamboo culture, coconut culture and many more courses and skills in self-sufficiency, regenerative design and leadership.\n\nA consortium of NGOs including Lom Orng and Ockenden is doing a post-flood livelihood and infrastructure regeneration project, in the country's northwest, which includes permaculture principles, and the establishment of a permaculture demonstration farm in Battambang Province which serves as a community farm and education site and includes a native tree nursery and biogas system providing clean cooking fuel and lighting.\n\nA Facebook Permaculture Cambodia page list various Permaculutre projects in the Cambodia region and the proprietors.\n\nThe Himalayan Permaculture Centre (HPC) is a grass roots non-government organisation (NGO) set up by trained and motivated farmers from Surkhet district (Mid-Western Nepal) in 2010 to implement sustainable rural development programs in Nepal.\n\nThe Al Baydha Project, a land restoration and rural community development program in Western Saudi Arabia.\n\nGROL Garden - Girne: An Urban Permaculture Project that accepts Volunteers who come under a work-exchange agreement. GROL Garden provides food, accommodation, yoga classes, and hands-on learning in exchange for assistance on their Projects.\n\nRed de Permacultura Ibérica (Iberic Permaculture Network)\n\nIn Portugal there are several Permaculture projects. There's a bottom-up initiative that is mapping most of them called Rede CONVERGIR.\n\n\nThere are a number of example permaculture projects in the UK, including:\n\n\nOther projects tend to be more community oriented, particularly in urban areas. These include Naturewise, a north London based group that tends a number of forest gardens and allotments as well as running regular permaculture introductory and design courses; and Organiclea, a workers cooperative that is involved in developing local food-growing and distribution initiatives around the Walthamstow area of east London. The Transition Towns movement initiated in Totnes and Kinsale by Rob Hopkins is underpinned by permaculture design principles in its attempts to visualise sustainable communities beyond peak oil.\n\nThe UK Permaculture Association publishes an extensive directory of other projects and example sites throughout the country.\n\nThe Permaculture Association of Teachers and Organizers on WiserEarth maintains a US listing.\n\n\n\n\nMaya Mountain Research Farm in San Pedro Columbia, Toledo, Belize, is a permaculture project founded in 1988 by Christopher Nesbitt on a 70-acre abandoned citrus and cattle land. The land is up the Columbia Branch of Rio Grande from the Kekchi maya community. Presently the farm manages over 500 species of plants. The farm works on agroecology, permaculture, stacked polycultures and installs photovoltaic systems in schools in indigenous communities as well as protected areas.\n\nThe farm works closely with farmers organizations and holds one Permaculture Design Course per year.\n\nSaint Michaels Sustainable Community started building their Permaculture Ranch in 2001 in the mountains of Esterillos, Costa Rica 3.5 Kilometers from the beach. By 2015 they have become internationally recognized model of regenerative agriculture. The building of the community was accomplished by interns, volunteers, woofers, ecological experts, a NASA scientist,agriculture students, permaculturists, local farmers, and environmentalists (some that formerly worked for oil companies)and a regenerative rancher, Justin Dolan. Under Dolans' leadership five living roof homes have been designed and built using permaculture principals and two other homes have been built with rainwater harvesting roofs. A natural salt water swimming pools was installed in a food forest containing over hundreds of types of fruits, medicinal herbs, a free energy aquaponics system, 12 rotational pastures, chickens, lambs, a herd of cattle, reforestation, an equestrian center, organic orchards, and a disc golf course. The Community is home to the Permaculture Country Club of Costa Rica (PCC). The club teaches a Journeyman Apprentice Program. The Candidates need to demonstrate expert knowledge and experience of satisfactory performing the duties involved from start to finish of each area of Permaculute Namely:\n\nAquaponics design, feeding, harvesting of the fish, inputs and outputs\nHugleculture\nBioChar\nSwales: building design, planting\nEdible Landscaping\nTerrace gardening\nRotation of crops and gardens\nCover crops\nKeyline design\nBasic Organic animal care\nRotational Grazing\nOrganic orchard management\nIntroduction to medicinal plants and holistic animal care\nDriving cattle\nAgroforestery \nFood forests\nEnergy efficiency\nCheck dams\nPlant propagation\nPlanting seedlings, transplanting seedlings, planting trees in square holes, \nPruning closer together and pruned in for less water and higher yield\nHarvesting\nBuilding garden beds\nGilds\nZones\nMaking compost tea; Higher recipe for fruit trees\nWeed identification, weeding\nRain water harvesting \nComposting methods \nNatural Building\nSoil regeneration and ecology\nPatterns and edge planting\nHolistic management\nBio Dynamics\nSustainably intrigued with living\nLiving roof design and construction\nTwelve design principles of Permaculture\nZero Waste / Upcycling/ recycling - Producing no waste\nAnd Disc golf\n\nThe Instituto Mesoamericano de Permacultura (IMAP) was founded in 2000 by a group of Mayan farmers and professionals in San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala. It is a not-for-profit community organization focused on the development of self-sufficient communities through the responsible management of natural resources, using permaculture techniques and ancestral and traditional knowledge. Areas of focus include: the cultural and biological diversity of Mesoamerica; food security and food sovereignty; organic production systems at the community and familial level; and permaculture education and environmental stewardship.\n\nSince 1993, Cuba has transformed its food production using low-input, or organic agriculture and, to some degree, permaculture. Havana produces up to 50% of its food requirements within the city limits, much of it organic and produced by people in their homes, gardens and in municipal spaces The transformation in agriculture originated as a response to a crisis which is known as the Special Period. Starting in 1993 Australian permaculturists traveled to Cuba to educate Cuban gardeners in permaculture practices.\n\nThe movement of sustainable communities in Ecuador reflects a bit the fact that it sits on the halfway mark of the Earth: it is neither invisible nor well defined, though small, it has many projects, although they are not necessarily part of a functional network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31877527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31877527", "title": "List of right-wing political parties", "text": "List of right-wing political parties\n\nThe following is a list of right-wing political parties. It includes parties from the centre-right to the far and ultra right.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20194413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194413", "title": "Ministry of National Defense (Lebanon)", "text": "Ministry of National Defense (Lebanon)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defense ( \"Wizārat al-Difāʾ al-Waṭanī\") is Lebanon's service section for the Lebanese Armed Forces. The Ministry is located in Yarzeh, Baabda District, Mount Lebanon. The building which is considered the biggest Ministry building in Lebanon was designed by the French architect André Wogenscky in 1968. The ministry building also houses the Lebanese Military Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25052455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25052455", "title": "Ministry of War (pre-modern Japan)", "text": "Ministry of War (pre-modern Japan)\n\nThe , sometimes called \"Tsuwamono no Tsukasa,\" was a division of the eighth century Japanese government of the Imperial Court in Kyoto, instituted in the Asuka period and formalized during the Heian period. The Ministry was replaced in the Meiji period.\n\nThe highest-ranking official or was ordinarily a son or a close relative of the Emperor. This important court officer was responsible for directing all military matters; and after the beginning in the late 12th century, this military man would have been empowered to work with the shogunate on the emperor's behalf.\n\nThe ambit of the Ministry's activities encompasses, for example:\n\nThe ministry was established as part of the Taika Reforms and \"Ritsuryō\" laws which were initiated in the Asuka period and formalized during the Heian period. After 702, the Hyōbu-shō replaced the \"Hyōseikan,\" which was created in 683.\n\nIn the Edo period, titles associated with the ministry became ceremonial titles.\n\nIn the Meiji period, the \"hyōbu-shō\" was reorganized into a modern Ministry of War and Ministry of the Navy.\n\nThe Asuka-, Nara- and Heian-period Imperial court hierarchy encompassed a ministry dealing with military affairs.\n\nIn the 18th century, the top ritsuryō officials within this ministry structure were:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8751419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8751419", "title": "National Action (South Africa)", "text": "National Action (South Africa)\n\nThe National Action (more commonly known by its Afrikaans name, \"Nasionale Aksie\") was a short-lived South African political party formed by Cassie Aucamp when he left the Afrikaner Eenheidsbeweging (AEB) in the 2003 floor-crossing window. The AEB, along with other Afrikaner parties, was merging into the Freedom Front Plus to contest the 2004 elections but the National Action, claiming to support Afrikaner interests, remained separate, and competed in the 2004 elections. It won no seats in the National Assembly of South Africa or any of the provincial legislatures. It did not contest the 2009 elections.\n"}
{"id": "24619020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24619020", "title": "National Anti-Communist Front", "text": "National Anti-Communist Front\n\nThe National Anti-Communist Front (Frente Anti-Communista Nacional) was a coalition of the anti-communist parties and groups (of ten or more) that supported Carlos Castillo Armas. Its program envisioned economic and social reforms for the development of Guatemala and the elimination of communist infiltration. Its members included the Anti-Communist Unification Party (PUA), Independent Anti-Communist Party of the West (PIACO), Anti-Communist University Students Committee (CEUA), Comités como el Cívico Independiente, Obrero Anticomunista, Femenino Anticomunista, de Locatarias, Asociación Juvenil Anticomunista, among others. In 1955, most member organizations were involved in the establishment of the National Democratic Movement (MDN).\n\n"}
{"id": "46321525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46321525", "title": "National Indigenous Human Rights Awards", "text": "National Indigenous Human Rights Awards\n\nThe National Indigenous Human Rights Awards is an annual Australian awards ceremony that recognises the contribution of Indigenous Australians to human rights and social justice. It is the first national Australian award ceremony dedicated solely to Indigenous human rights achievements.\n\nThe National Indigenous Human Rights Awards were first inspired by a conversation between migrant-born NSW Parliamentarian, Hon. Shoaquett Moselmane and social justice advocate and suicide prevention researcher, Gerry Georgatos.\n\nThere are three categories of awards:\n\nThe inaugural National Indigenous Human Rights Awards were held on 24 June at Parliament House, Sydney. Indigenous leaders from all over Australia travelled to Sydney for the event. The ceremony was emceed by Deputy Leader of the Opposition, Linda Burney, with a keynote speech by Yalmay Yunupingu. The presenters of the awards were Yalmay Yunupingu, the partner of the late Dr Yunupingu, founder and lead singer of Yothu Yindi, and Gail Mabo, daughter of the late Eddie Mabo, and world champion boxer Anthony Mundine. The awards were founded by NSW Labor Parliamentarian, Shaoquett Moselmane.\n\nThe inaugural recipient of the Dr Yunupingu Award for Human Rights was Rosalie Kunoth-Monks.\n\nThe inaugural recipient of the Eddie Mabo Award for Social Justice was family of the late Eddie Murray.\n\nThe inaugural recipient of the Anthony Mundine Award for Courage was Barbara McGrady.\n\nThe 2015 awards were emceed by SBS journalist and Arrernte woman Karla Grant. The keynote speech was delivered by Narungga Elder Tauto Sansbury.\n\nThe recipient of the Dr Yunupingu Award for Human Rights was Tauto Sansbury.\n\nThe recipient of the Eddie Mabo Award for Social Justice was Jenny Munro.\n\nThe recipient of the Anthony Mundine Award for Courage was Adam Goodes.\n\nThe recipient of the Dr Yunupingu Award for Human Rights was Dameyon Bonson.\n\nDameyon Bonson handed back the award in February 2018 in protest of homophobic comments by Anthony Mundine in a TV reality show.\n\nThe recipient of the Eddie Mabo Award for Social Justice was Mervyn Eades.\n\nThe recipient of the Anthony Mundine Award for Courage was Lex Wotton.\n\nThe 2017 awards night was mceed by former international journalist and filmmaker Jeff McMullen. The keynote was presented by Senator Malarndirri McCarthy. There was a Judges Toast Speech by Narrungga Elder, Tauto Sansbury. There were 12 finalists for the three categories; For the Dr Yunupingu Human Rights Award, 4 finalists, Rachel Perkins, award winning filmmaker, Dr Mark Wenitong, a medical doctor in Cape York, Mervyn Eades, founder and CEO of Ngalla Maya and Dr Kerry Arabena, early childhood academic. For the Eddie Mabo Social Justice Award, 4 finalists, Dr Kim Isaacs, a medical doctor in the Kimberley, Gayili Marika Yunupingu, suicide prevention campaigner, Richard Weston, CEO of The Healing Foundation and Noeletta McKenzie, youth suicide prevention worker. For the Anthony Mundine Courage Award, 4 finalists, Dr Meg Wills, justice reinvestment campaigner, Professor Chris Sarra, founder of Stronger Smarter Institute, Joe Williams, suicide prevention advocate and Clinton Pryor, who walked across Australia to raise awareness to continuing injustices to Indigenous people.\nThe recipient of the Dr Yunupingu Award for Human Rights was Mervyn Eades.\n\nThe recipient of the Eddie Mabo Award for Social Justice was Gayili Marika Yunupingu.\n\nThe recipient of the Anthony Mundine Award for Courage was Professor Chris Sarra.\n\nThe 5th National Indigenous Human Rights Awards were held on 18 October at Parliament House, Sydney. The ceremony was emceed by NITV journalist Karla Grant and with a keynote speech by Noongar person, lawyer and National Indigenous Critical Response Service advocate Megan Krakouer.\n\nThe recipient of the Dr Yunupingu Award for Human Rights was Megan Krakouer.\n\nThe recipient of the Eddie Mabo Award for Social Justice was Keenan Mundine.\n\nThe recipient of the Anthony Mundine Award for Courage was Clinton Prior.\n"}
{"id": "56587867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56587867", "title": "Nature therapy", "text": "Nature therapy\n\nNature therapy (a broader term than related forest bathing or Shinrin-Yoku) which describes the practice that combines a range of exercises and tasks in an outdoor environment. Garden therapy, horticultural therapy, Kneipp therapy or even ocean therapy may be viewed as forms of nature therapy.\n\nA 2012 systematic review study showed inconclusive results related to methodological issues across the literature. Subsequently, a 2017 systematic review of the benefits of spending time in forests demonstrated positive health effects, but not enough to generate clinical practice guidelines or demonstrate causality. Many individual studies do promote health benefits of forest therapy or forest bathing.\n\nAnthropologically, nature therapy appears to have existed since the dawn of time in many cultures and tribes. \"Shinrin-yoku\" () literally means forest bathing, originated in Japan in the early 1980s and may be regarded as a form of nature therapy. In Japan, Shinrin-yoku has become established across all prefectures with more than 60 Forest Therapy Camps by the end of 2016.\n\nIn the late 1990s a pseudoscientific variant called earthing or grounding started to be marketed, under the notion that the earth functions as an electrical ground for people and that touching the earth provides an array of health benefits based on an incorrect understanding of antioxidant activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "49240423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49240423", "title": "Nordlander", "text": "Nordlander\n\nNordlander is a Swedish family originating from the village of Norrland, Bjärtrå in Ångermanland, Sweden. Daniel Persson (1683–1763) relocated to the Norrland estate from his former residence at the crown land () of Bjärtrå, a power house in Ångermanland until the establishment of Härnösand in 1585. Subsequently, his sons Erik Nordlander (1723–1782) and Nils Nordlander (1726–1775) assumed the family name in accordance with that of the estate and its village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41274156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41274156", "title": "Oil clique", "text": "Oil clique\n\nAn oil clique is a social clique or a network of powerful individuals and institutions that are involved in the petroleum industry. Important examples include China's oil clique and Texas' oil clique.\n"}
{"id": "229224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229224", "title": "Old Left", "text": "Old Left\n\nThe Old Left is the pre-1960s left-wing in the Western world, the earlier leftist or Marxist movements that had often taken a more vanguardist approach to social justice and focused mostly on labor unionization and questions of social class in the West.\n\nThe New Left arose first among dissenting intellectuals and campus groups in the United Kingdom and later alongside campus in the United States and in the Western bloc.\n\nThe German-Jewish critical theorist Herbert Marcuse is referred to as the \"Father of the New Left\". Marcuse rejected the theory of class struggle and the Marxist concern with labor. According to Leszek Kołakowski, Marcuse argued that since \"all questions of material existence have been solved, moral commands and prohibitions are no longer relevant\". He regarded the realization of man's erotic nature as the true liberation of humanity, which inspired the utopias of Jerry Rubin and others. \n\nBetween 1943 and 1950, Marcuse worked in U.S. Government service for the Office of Strategic Services (predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency) and criticized the ideology of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in the book \"\" (1958). After his studies, in the 1960s and the 1970s he became known as the pre-eminent theorist of the New Left and the student movements of West Germany, France and the United States.\n\nUnlike the New Left, the Old Left puts less emphasis on social issues such as abortion, drugs, feminism, gay rights and gender roles. Since the mid-1970s with the advent of revisionist movements such as Eurocommunism (and earlier in the Anglosphere, the New Left), some parties on the far-left in the West they have begun to adopt homosexual rights from the New Left as part of their platform while parties in the East such as the Communist Party of Greece and the Communist Party of the Russian Federation have rejected this move and continue to focus exclusively on worker politics as the Old Left. The party voted against the Civil Partnerships Bill proposed by Syriza, responding: \"With the formation of a socialist-communist society, a new type of partnership will undoubtedly be formed—a relatively stable heterosexual relationship and reproduction\". The Communist Party of the Russian Federation supported a ban on the \"promotion of non-traditional sexual relations to minors\", mostly named a ban on \"homosexual propaganda to minors\" in Western media. The party is known to support bringing back the death penalty, like Communists of Russia.\n\nMilitant was a Trotskyist entryist group in the British Labour Party, based around the \"Militant\" newspaper launched in 1964. According to Michael Crick, its politics were influenced by Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky and \"virtually nobody else\". Militant has been cited as an example left-wing opposition to feminism and gay rights initiatives within the labour movement in the early 1980s, specifically within the context of reaction to the financial support given to gay rights groups by the Greater London Council under the leadership of Ken Livingstone. While Militant was present in Labour Party women's sections, claiming forty delegates attended the Labour Party women's conference in 1981, it opposed feminism which declared that men were the enemy, or the cause of women's oppression.\n\nCommunist leaders and intellectuals took many different positions on LGBT rights issues as Marx and Engels said very little on the subject in their published works. Marx in particular commented rarely on sexuality in general. Writing for Political Affairs, Norman Markowitz writes: \"Here, to be frank, one finds from Marx a refusal to entertain the subject, and from Engels open hostility to the individuals involved\". This is because in private Engels criticized male homosexuality and related it to ancient Greek pederasty, saying that \"[the ancient Greeks] fell into the abominable practice of sodomy [original German \"Knabenliebe\", meaning \"boylove\" or pederasty and degraded alike their gods and themselves with the myth of Ganymede\". Engels also said that the pro-pederast movement \"cannot fail to triumph. \"Guerre aux cons, paix aus trous-de-cul\" [war on the cunts, peace to the arse-holes] will now be the slogan\". Engels also referred to Dr. Karl Boruttau as a \"Schwanzschwulen\" (\"faggotty prick\") in private.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Homosexuality\" volume two is unequivocal on Marx and Engels view of homosexuality, stating: \"There can be little doubt that, as far as they thought of the matter at all, Marx and Engels were personally homo-phobic, as shown by an acerbic 1869 exchange of letter on Jean-Baptiste von Schweitzer, a German socialist rival. Schweitzer had been arrested in a park on a morals charge and not only did Marx and Engels refuse to join a committee defending him, they resorted to the cheapest form of bathroom humor in their private comments about the affair\".\n\nIn 1933, Joseph Stalin added Article 121 to the entire Soviet Union criminal code, which made male homosexuality a crime punishable by up to five years in prison with hard labor. The precise reason for Article 121 is in some dispute among historians. The few official government statements made about the law tended to confuse homosexuality with pedophilia and was tied up with a belief that homosexuality was only practiced among fascists or the aristocracy. The law remained intact until after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and was repealed in 1993. Gay men were sometimes denied membership or expelled from Communist parties across the globe during the 20th century as most Communist parties followed the social precedents set by the Soviet Union.\n\nHowever, this was not the case in the West and notable gay members of Communist parties include the following:\n\nAn other example of left-wing opposition to homosexuality is the Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova, a left-wing party which strongly opposes LGBT rights in Moldova. Despite officially associating itself with the left-wing movement, the party is working with nationalist, right-wing and religious movements to counter the \"promotion of vice spread with the help of the US in Moldova\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56814242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56814242", "title": "Organization of Angolan Women", "text": "Organization of Angolan Women\n\nThe Organization of Angolan Women, established in 1962, was originally founded to rally support for the new political party known as the MPLA. Once Angola was officially independent of Portugal in 1975 following the Angolan War of Independence, the Organization of Angolan Women provided the best opportunity for female activism in local government. Total involvement faltered in the 1980s, citing that rural violence and regional destabilization disheartened many of the rural members. However, it was also during the 1980s that Angola passed the first anti-discrimination laws and established strict literacy laws to support uneducated women.\n"}
{"id": "39800305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39800305", "title": "Partia e Fortë", "text": "Partia e Fortë\n\nThe Strong Party (Albanian: \"Partia e Fortë\", \"PF\") is a satirical political party in Kosovo formed in 2013. Its goal is \"to come to power to control public money in the interest of supporters and the like-minded.\"\n\nAs part of the group's commitment to gender equality, over thirty percent of the candidates running for office in the upcoming election are men. The Party seeks to maintain the political \"status quo\", praising Kosovo as a democratic country where living people as well as \"those in the other world\" can vote. Party leaders claim a victory of around 120 percent, as measured by the group's pollsters.\n\nThe Party is headed by Visar Arifaj—whose official title \"Kryetar Lexhendar\" (Legendary Chairman) is intentionally misspelled with the so-called hard \"xh\"—and other young activists from Prishtina. It is the only political party which has no ordinary members, beside the Legendary Chairman all its supporters serve as deputy chairmen. The Strong Party is a grass roots organization linked to the coffee culture of Kosovo's capital.\n\nThe party was officially registered on June 20, 2013, although it was formed in November, 2012. It was founded by a group of activists and artists like Yll Rugova, Visar Arifaj, Ilir Bajri and Agon Hamza. People related to Partia e Fortë as a political party have been related to some internet pranks and protests that gained media and public attention. The first public appearance outside of Facebook and Twitter was on Klan Kosova cable television in early 2013.\n\nOn first elections on October 2013, Partia e Fortë got votes to get at least one person elected in the Municipal Assembly of the capital city Prishtina.\n\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\n"}
{"id": "313701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313701", "title": "Paul Krugman", "text": "Paul Krugman\n\nPaul Robin Krugman ( ; born February 28, 1953) is an American economist who is currently Distinguished Professor of Economics at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and a columnist for \"The New York Times\". In 2008, Krugman was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to New Trade Theory and New Economic Geography. The Prize Committee cited Krugman's work explaining the patterns of international trade and the geographic distribution of economic activity, by examining the effects of economies of scale and of consumer preferences for diverse goods and services.\n\nKrugman was previously a professor of economics at MIT, and later at Princeton University. He retired from Princeton in June 2015, and holds the title of professor emeritus there. He also holds the title of Centenary Professor at the London School of Economics. Krugman was President of the Eastern Economic Association in 2010, and is among the most influential economists in the world. Krugman is known in academia for his work on international economics (including trade theory, economic geography, and international finance), liquidity traps, and currency crises.\n\nKrugman is the author or editor of 27 books, including scholarly works, textbooks, and books for a more general audience, and has published over 200 scholarly articles in professional journals and edited volumes. He has also written several hundred columns on economic and political issues for \"The New York Times\", \"Fortune\" and \"Slate\". A 2011 survey of economics professors named him their favorite living economist under the age of 60. As a commentator, Krugman has written on a wide range of economic issues including income distribution, taxation, macroeconomics, and international economics. Krugman considers himself a modern liberal, referring to his books, his blog on \"The New York Times\", and his 2007 book \"The Conscience of a Liberal\". His popular commentary has attracted widespread attention and comments, both positive and negative.\n\nKrugman was born to a Jewish family, the son of Anita and David Krugman. In 1922, his paternal grandparents immigrated to the United States from Brest, Belarus, at that time a part of Poland. He was born in Albany, New York, and grew up in Merrick, a hamlet in Nassau County. He graduated from John F. Kennedy High School in Bellmore. According to Krugman, his interest in economics began with Isaac Asimov's \"Foundation\" novels, in which the social scientists of the future use a new science of \"psychohistory\" to try to save civilization. Since present-day science fell far short of \"psychohistory\", Krugman turned to economics as the next best thing.\n\nKrugman earned his B.A. \" summa cum laude\" in economics from Yale University in 1974, and went on to pursue a PhD in economics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). In 1977, he successfully completed his PhD in three years, with a thesis titled \"Essays on flexible exchange rates\". While at MIT, he was part of a small group of MIT students sent to work for the Central Bank of Portugal for three months in the summer of 1976, during the chaotic aftermath of the Carnation Revolution.\n\nKrugman later praised his PhD thesis advisor, Rudi Dornbusch, as \"one of the great economics teachers of all time\" and said that he \"had the knack of inspiring students to pick up his enthusiasm and technique, but find their own paths\". In 1978, Krugman presented a number of ideas to Dornbusch, who flagged as interesting the idea of a monopolistically competitive trade model. Encouraged, Krugman worked on it and later wrote, \"[I] knew within a few hours that I had the key to my whole career in hand\". In that same year, Krugman wrote \"The Theory of Interstellar Trade\", a tongue-in-cheek essay on computing interest rates on goods in transit near the speed of light. He says he wrote it to cheer himself up when he was \"an oppressed assistant professor\".\n\nKrugman became an assistant professor at Yale University in September 1977. He joined the faculty of MIT in 1979. From 1982 to 1983, Krugman spent a year working at the Reagan White House as a staff member of the Council of Economic Advisers. He rejoined MIT as a full professor in 1984. Krugman has also taught at Stanford, Yale, and the London School of Economics.\n\nIn 2000, Krugman joined Princeton University as Professor of Economics and International Affairs. He is also currently Centenary Professor at the London School of Economics, and a member of the Group of Thirty international economic body. He has been a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research since 1979. Krugman was President of the Eastern Economic Association in 2010. In February 2014, he announced that he would be retiring from Princeton in June 2015 and that he would be joining the faculty at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.\n\nPaul Krugman has written extensively on international economics, including international trade, economic geography, and international finance. The Research Papers in Economics project ranks him among the world's most influential economists. Krugman's \"International Economics: Theory and Policy\", co-authored with Maurice Obstfeld, is a standard undergraduate textbook on international economics. He is also co-author, with Robin Wells, of an undergraduate economics text which he says was strongly inspired by the first edition of Paul Samuelson's classic textbook. Krugman also writes on economic topics for the general public, sometimes on international economic topics but also on income distribution and public policy.\n\nThe Nobel Prize Committee stated that Krugman's main contribution is his analysis of the effects of economies of scale, combined with the assumption that consumers appreciate diversity, on international trade and on the location of economic activity. The importance of spatial issues in economics has been enhanced by Krugman's ability to popularize this complicated theory with the help of easy-to-read books and state-of-the-art syntheses. \"Krugman was beyond doubt the key player in 'placing geographical analysis squarely in the economic mainstream' ... and in conferring it the central role it now assumes.\"\n\nPrior to Krugman's work, trade theory (see David Ricardo and Heckscher–Ohlin model) emphasized trade based on the comparative advantage of countries with very different characteristics, such as a country with a high agricultural productivity trading agricultural products for industrial products from a country with a high industrial productivity. However, in the 20th century, an ever-larger share of trade occurred between countries with similar characteristics, which is difficult to explain by comparative advantage. Krugman's explanation of trade between similar countries was proposed in a 1979 paper in the \"Journal of International Economics\", and involves two key assumptions: that consumers prefer a diverse choice of brands, and that production favors economies of scale. Consumers' preference for diversity explains the survival of different versions of cars like Volvo and BMW. However, because of economies of scale, it is not profitable to spread the production of Volvos all over the world; instead, it is concentrated in a few factories and therefore in a few countries (or maybe just one). This logic explains how each country may specialize in producing a few brands of any given type of product, instead of specializing in different types of products.\n\nKrugman modeled a 'preference for diversity' by assuming a CES utility function like that in a 1977 paper by Avinash Dixit and Joseph Stiglitz. Many models of international trade now follow Krugman's lead, incorporating economies of scale in production and a preference for diversity in consumption. This way of modeling trade has come to be called New Trade Theory.\n\nKrugman's theory also took into account transportation costs, a key feature in producing the \"home market effect\", which would later feature in his work on the new economic geography. The home market effect \"states that, ceteris paribus, the country with the larger demand for a good shall, at equilibrium, produce a more than proportionate share of that good and be a net exporter of it.\" The home market effect was an unexpected result, and Krugman initially questioned it, but ultimately concluded that the mathematics of the model were correct.\n\nWhen there are economies of scale in production, it is possible that countries may become 'locked into' disadvantageous patterns of trade. Krugman points out that although globalization has been positive on a whole, since the 1980s the process known as hyper-globalization has at least played a part in rising inequality. Nonetheless, trade remains beneficial in general, even between similar countries, because it permits firms to save on costs by producing at a larger, more efficient scale, and because it increases the range of brands available and sharpens the competition between firms. Krugman has usually been supportive of free trade and globalization. He has also been critical of industrial policy, which New Trade Theory suggests might offer nations rent-seeking advantages if \"strategic industries\" can be identified, saying it's not clear that such identification can be done accurately enough to matter.\n\nIt took an interval of eleven years, but ultimately Krugman's work on New Trade Theory (NTT) converged to what is usually called the \"new economic geography\" (NEG), which Krugman began to develop in a seminal 1991 paper, \"Increasing Returns and Economic Geography\", published in the \"Journal of Political Economy\". In Krugman's own words, the passage from NTT to NEG was \"obvious in retrospect; but it certainly took me a while to see it. ... The only good news was that nobody else picked up that $100 bill lying on the sidewalk in the interim.\" This would become Krugman's most-cited academic paper: by early 2009, it had 857 citations, more than double his second-ranked paper. Krugman called the paper \"the love of my life in academic work.\"\n\nThe \"home market effect\" that Krugman discovered in NTT also features in NEG, which interprets agglomeration \"as the outcome of the interaction of increasing returns, trade costs and factor price differences.\" If trade is largely shaped by economies of scale, as Krugman's trade theory argues, then those economic regions with most production will be more profitable and will therefore attract even more production. That is, NTT implies that instead of spreading out evenly around the world, production will tend to concentrate in a few countries, regions, or cities, which will become densely populated but will also have higher levels of income.\n\nManufacturing is characterized by increasing returns to scale and less restrictive and expansive land qualifications as compared to agricultural uses. So, geographically where can manufacturing be predicted to develop? Krugman states that manufacturing's geographical range is inherently limited by economies of scale, but also that manufacturing will establish and accrue itself in an area of high demand. Production that occurs adjacent to demand will result in lower transportation costs, but demand, as a result, will be greater due to concentrated nearby production. These forces act upon one another simultaneously, producing manufacturing and population agglomeration. Population will increase in these areas due to the more highly developed infrastructure and nearby production, therefore lowering the expense of good, while economies of scale provide varied choices of goods and services. These forces will feed into each other until the greater portion of the urban population and manufacturing hubs are concentrated into a relatively insular geographic area.\n\nKrugman has also been influential in the field of international finance. As a graduate student, Krugman visited the Federal Reserve Board, where Stephen Salant and Dale Henderson were completing their discussion paper on speculative attacks in the gold market. Krugman adapted their model for the foreign exchange market, resulting in a 1979 paper on currency crises in the \"Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking\", which showed that misaligned fixed exchange rate regimes are unlikely to end smoothly: instead, they end in a sudden speculative attack. Krugman's paper is considered one of the main contributions to the 'first generation' of currency crisis models, and it is his second-most-cited paper (457 citations as of early 2009).\n\nIn response to the global financial crisis of 2008, Krugman proposed, in an informal \"mimeo\" style of publication, an \"international finance multiplier\", to help explain the unexpected speed with which the global crisis had occurred. He argued that when, \"highly leveraged financial institutions [HLIs], which do a lot of cross-border investment [...] lose heavily in one market [...] they find themselves undercapitalized, and have to sell off assets across the board. This drives down prices, putting pressure on the balance sheets of other HLIs, and so on.\" Such a rapid contagion had hitherto been considered unlikely because of \"decoupling\" in a globalized economy. He first announced that he was working on such a model on his blog, on October 5, 2008. Within days of its appearance, it was being discussed on some popular economics-oriented blogs.\nThe note was soon being cited in papers (draft and published) by other economists, even though it had not itself been through ordinary peer review processes.\n\nKrugman has done much to revive discussion of the liquidity trap as a topic in economics. He recommended pursuing aggressive fiscal policy and unconventional monetary policy to counter Japan's lost decade in the 1990s, arguing that the country was mired in a Keynesian liquidity trap. The debate he started at that time over liquidity traps and what policies best address them continues in the economics literature.\n\nKrugman had argued in \"The Return of Depression Economics\" that Japan was in a liquidity trap in the late 1990s, since the central bank could not drop interest rates any lower to escape economic stagnation. The core of Krugman's policy proposal for addressing Japan's liquidity trap was inflation targeting, which, he argued \"most nearly approaches the usual goal of modern stabilization policy, which is to provide adequate demand in a clean, unobtrusive way that does not distort the allocation of resources.\" The proposal appeared first in a web posting on his academic site. This mimeo-draft was soon cited, but was also misread by some as repeating his earlier advice that Japan's best hope was in \"turning on the printing presses\", as recommended by Milton Friedman, John Makin, and others.\n\nKrugman has since drawn parallels between Japan's 'lost decade' and the late 2000s recession, arguing that expansionary fiscal policy is necessary as the major industrialized economies are mired in a liquidity trap. In response to economists who point out that the Japanese economy recovered despite not pursuing his policy prescriptions, Krugman maintains that it was an export-led boom that pulled Japan out of its economic slump in the late-90s, rather than reforms of the financial system.\n\nKrugman was one of the most prominent advocates of the 2008–2009 Keynesian resurgence, so much so that economics commentator Noah Smith referred to it as the \"Krugman insurgency.\"\nHis view that most peer-reviewed macroeconomic research since the mid-1960s is wrong, preferring simpler models developed in the 1930s, has been criticized by some modern economists, like John H. Cochrane. In June 2012, Krugman and Richard Layard launched \"A manifesto for economic sense\", where they call for greater use of fiscal stimulus policy to reduce unemployment and foster growth. The manifesto received over four thousand signatures within two days of its launch, and has attracted both positive and critical responses.\n\nKrugman was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (informally the Nobel Prize in Economics), the sole recipient for 2008. This prize includes an award of about $1.4 million and was given to Krugman for his work associated with New Trade Theory and the New Economic Geography. In the words of the prize committee, \"By having integrated economies of scale into explicit general equilibrium models, Paul Krugman has deepened our understanding of the determinants of trade and the location of economic activity.\"\n\n\nA May 2011 Hamilton College analysis of 26 politicians, journalists, and media commentators who made predictions in major newspaper columns or television news shows from September 2007 to December 2008 found that Krugman was the most accurate. Only nine of the prognosticators predicted more accurately than chance, two were significantly less accurate, and the remaining 14 were no better or worse than a coin flip. Krugman was correct in 15 out of 17 predictions, compared to 9 out of 11 for the next most accurate media figure, Maureen Dowd.\n\n\"Foreign Policy\" named Krugman one of its 2012 FP Top 100 Global Thinkers \"for wielding his acid pen against austerity\".\n\nIn the 1990s, besides academic books and textbooks, Krugman increasingly began writing books for a general audience on issues he considered important for public policy. In \"The Age of Diminished Expectations\" (1990), he wrote in particular about the increasing US income inequality in the \"New Economy\" of the 1990s. He attributes the rise in income inequality in part to changes in technology, but principally to a change in political atmosphere which he attributes to Movement Conservatives.\n\nIn September 2003, Krugman published a collection of his columns under the title, \"The Great Unraveling\", about the Bush administration's economic and foreign policies and the US economy in the early 2000s. His columns argued that the large deficits during that time were generated by the Bush administration as a result of decreasing taxes on the rich, increasing public spending, and fighting the Iraq War. Krugman wrote that these policies were unsustainable in the long run and would eventually generate a major economic crisis. The book was a best-seller.\n\nIn 2007, Krugman published \"The Conscience of a Liberal\", whose title refers to Barry Goldwater's \"Conscience of a Conservative\". It details the history of wealth and income gaps in the United States in the 20th century. The book describes how the gap between rich and poor declined greatly in middle of the century, and then widened in the last two decades to levels higher even than in the 1920s. In \"Conscience\", Krugman argues that government policies played a much greater role than commonly thought both in reducing inequality in the 1930s through 1970s and in increasing it in the 1980s through the present, and criticizes the Bush administration for implementing policies that Krugman believes widened the gap between the rich and poor.\n\nKrugman also argued that Republicans owed their electoral successes to their ability to exploit the race issue to win political dominance of the South. Krugman argues that Ronald Reagan had used the \"Southern Strategy\" to signal sympathy for racism without saying anything overtly racist, citing as an example Reagan's coining of the term \"welfare queen\".\n\nIn his book, Krugman proposed a \"new New Deal\", which included placing more emphasis on social and medical programs and less on national defense. In his review of \"Conscience of a Liberal\", the liberal journalist and author Michael Tomasky credited Krugman with a commitment \"to accurate history even when some fudging might be in order for the sake of political expediency.\" In a review for \"The New York Times\", Pulitzer prize-winning historian David M. Kennedy stated, \"Like the rants of Rush Limbaugh or the films of Michael Moore, Krugman's shrill polemic may hearten the faithful, but it will do little to persuade the unconvinced\".\n\nIn late 2008, Krugman published a substantial updating of an earlier work, entitled \"The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008\". In the book, he discusses the failure of the United States regulatory system to keep pace with a financial system increasingly out-of-control, and the causes of and possible ways to contain the greatest financial crisis since the 1930s. In 2012, Krugman published \"End This Depression Now!\", a book which argues that looking at the available historical economic data, fiscal cuts and austerity measures only deprive the economy of valuable funds that can circulate and further add to a poor economy – people cannot spend, and markets cannot thrive if there is not enough consumption and there cannot be sufficient consumption if there is large unemployment. He argues that while it is necessary to cut debt, it is the worst time to do so in an economy that has just suffered the most severe of financial shocks, and must be done instead when an economy is near full-employment when the private sector can withstand the burden of decreased government spending and austerity. Failure to stimulate the economy either by public or private sectors will only unnecessarily lengthen the current economic depression and make it worse.\n\nMartin Wolf has written that Krugman is both the \"most hated and most admired columnist in the US\".\nEconomist J. Peter Neary has noted that Krugman \"has written on a wide range of topics, always combining one of the best prose styles in the profession with an ability to construct elegant, insightful and useful models.\" Neary added that \"no discussion of his work could fail to mention his transition from Academic Superstar to Public Intellectual. Through his extensive writings, including a regular column for \"The New York Times\", monographs and textbooks at every level, and books on economics and current affairs for the general public ... he has probably done more than any other writer to explain economic principles to a wide audience.\" Krugman has been described as the most controversial economist in his generation and according to Michael Tomasky since 1992 he has moved \"from being a center-left scholar to being a liberal polemicist.\"\n\nFrom the mid-1990s onwards, Krugman wrote for \"Fortune\" (1997–99) and \"Slate\" (1996–99), and then for \"The Harvard Business Review\", \"Foreign Policy\", \"The Economist\", \"Harper's\", and \"Washington Monthly\". In this period Krugman critiqued various positions commonly taken on economic issues from across the political spectrum, from protectionism and opposition to the World Trade Organization on the left to supply side economics on the right.\n\nDuring the 1992 presidential campaign, Krugman praised Bill Clinton's economic plan in \"The New York Times\", and Clinton's campaign used some of Krugman's work on income inequality. At the time, it was considered likely that Clinton would offer him a position in the new administration, but allegedly Krugman's volatility and outspokenness caused Clinton to look elsewhere. Krugman later said that he was \"temperamentally unsuited for that kind of role. You have to be very good at people skills, biting your tongue when people say silly things.\" In a Fresh Dialogues interview, Krugman added, \"you have to be reasonably organized... I can move into a pristine office and within three days it will look like a grenade went off.\"\n\nIn 1999, near the height of the dot com boom, \"The New York Times\" approached Krugman to write a bi-weekly column on \"the vagaries of business and economics in an age of prosperity.\" His first columns in 2000 addressed business and economic issues, but as the 2000 US presidential campaign progressed, Krugman increasingly focused on George W. Bush's policy proposals. According to Krugman, this was partly due to \"the silence of the media – those 'liberal media' conservatives complain about...\" Krugman accused Bush of repeatedly misrepresenting his proposals, and criticized the proposals themselves. After Bush's election, and his perseverance with his proposed tax cut in the midst of the slump (which Krugman argued would do little to help the economy but substantially raise the fiscal deficit), Krugman's columns grew angrier and more focused on the administration. As Alan Blinder put it in 2002, \"There's been a kind of missionary quality to his writing since then ... He's trying to stop something now, using the power of the pen.\" Partly as a result, Krugman's twice-weekly column on the Op-Ed page of \"The New York Times\" has made him, according to Nicholas Confessore, \"the most important political columnist in America... he is almost alone in analyzing the most important story in politics in recent years – the seamless melding of corporate, class, and political party interests at which the Bush administration excels.\" In an interview in late 2009, Krugman said his missionary zeal had changed in the post-Bush era and he described the Obama administration as \"good guys but not as forceful as I'd like...When I argue with them in my column this is a serious discussion. We really are in effect speaking across the transom here.\" Krugman says he's more effective at driving change outside the administration than inside it, \"now, I'm trying to make this progressive moment in American history a success. So that's where I'm pushing.\"\n\nKrugman's columns have drawn criticism as well as praise. A 2003 article in \"The Economist\" questioned Krugman's \"growing tendency to attribute all the world's ills to George Bush,\" citing critics who felt that \"his relentless partisanship is getting in the way of his argument\" and claiming errors of economic and political reasoning in his columns. Daniel Okrent, a former \"The New York Times\" ombudsman, in his farewell column, criticized Krugman for what he said was \"the disturbing habit of shaping, slicing and selectively citing numbers in a fashion that pleases his acolytes but leaves him open to substantive assaults.\"\n\nKrugman's \"New York Times\" blog is \"The Conscience of a Liberal,\" devoted largely to economics and politics.\n\nFive days after 9/11 terrorist attacks, Krugman argued in his column that calamity was \"partly self-inflicted\" due to transfer of responsibility for airport security from government to airlines. His column provoked an angry response and \"The New York Times\" was flooded with complaints. According to Larissa MacFarquhar of \"The New Yorker\", while some people thought that he was too partisan to be a columnist for \"The New York Times\", he was revered on the left. Similarly, on the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 on the United States Krugman again provoked a controversy by accusing on his \"New York Times\" blog former U.S. President George W. Bush and former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani of rushing \"to cash in on the horror\" after the attacks and describing the anniversary as \"an occasion for shame\".\n\nKrugman was noteworthy for his fierce opposition to the 2016 presidential campaign of Bernie Sanders. On January 19, 2016 he wrote an article which criticized Bernie Sanders for his perceived lack of political realism, compared Sanders' plans for healthcare and financial reform unfavorably to those of Hillary Clinton, and cited criticisms of Sanders from other liberal policy wonks like Mike Konczal and Ezra Klein. Later, Krugman wrote an article which accused Sanders of \"[going] for easy slogans over hard thinking\" and attacking Hillary Clinton in a way that was \"just plain dishonest.\" \n\nOn the 12 July 2016, Krugman tweeted \"leprechaun economics\", in response to Central Statistics Office (Ireland) data that 2015 GDP grew 26.3% and 2015 GNP grew 18.7%. The leprechaun economics affair (proved in 2018 to be Apple restructuring its double Irish subsidiaries), led to the Central Bank of Ireland introducing a new economic statistic, Modified gross national income (or GNI*) to better measure the Irish economy (2016 Irish GDP is 143% of 2016 Irish GNI*). The term leprechaun economics has since been used by Krugman, and others, to describe distorted/unsound economic data.\n\nKrugman has expressed reservations regarding the Trump administration.\n\nIn a 1994 \"Foreign Affairs\" article, Paul Krugman argued that it was a myth that the economic successes of the East Asian 'tigers' constituted an economic miracle. He argued that their rise was fueled by mobilizing resources and that their growth rates would inevitably slow. His article helped popularize the argument made by Lawrence Lau and Alwyn Young, among others, that the growth of economies in East Asia was not the result of new and original economic models, but rather from high capital investment and increasing labor force participation, and that total factor productivity had not increased. Krugman argued that in the long term, only increasing total factor productivity can lead to sustained economic growth. Krugman's article was highly criticized in many Asian countries when it first appeared, and subsequent studies disputed some of Krugman's conclusions. However, it also stimulated a great deal of research, and may have caused the Singapore government to provide incentives for technological progress.\n\nDuring the 1997 Asian financial crisis, Krugman advocated currency controls as a way to mitigate the crisis. Writing in a \"Fortune\" magazine article, he suggested exchange controls as \"a solution so unfashionable, so stigmatized, that hardly anyone has dared suggest it.\" Malaysia was the only country that adopted such controls, and although the Malaysian government credited its rapid economic recovery on currency controls, the relationship is disputed. An empirical study found that the Malaysian policies produced faster economic recovery and smaller declines in employment and real wages. Krugman later stated that the controls might not have been necessary at the time they were applied, but that nevertheless \"Malaysia has proved a point – namely, that controlling capital in a crisis is at least feasible.\" Krugman more recently pointed out that emergency capital controls have even been endorsed by the IMF, and are no longer considered radical policy.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Krugman repeatedly criticized the Bush tax cuts, both before and after they were enacted. Krugman argued that the tax cuts enlarged the budget deficit without improving the economy, and that they enriched the wealthy – worsening income distribution in the US. Krugman advocated lower interest rates (to promote investment and spending on housing and other durable goods), and increased government spending on infrastructure, military, and unemployment benefits, arguing that these policies would have a larger stimulus effect, and unlike permanent tax cuts, would only temporarily increase the budget deficit. In addition, he was against Bush's proposal to privatize social security.\n\nIn August 2005, after Alan Greenspan expressed concern over housing markets, Krugman criticized Greenspan's earlier reluctance to regulate the mortgage and related financial markets, arguing that \"[he's] like a man who suggests leaving the barn door ajar, and then – after the horse is gone – delivers a lecture on the importance of keeping your animals properly locked up.\" Krugman has repeatedly expressed his view that Greenspan and Phil Gramm are the two individuals most responsible for causing the subprime crisis. Krugman points to Greenspan and Gramm for the key roles they played in keeping derivatives, financial markets, and investment banks unregulated, and to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which repealed Great Depression era safeguards that prevented commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies from merging.\n\nKrugman has also been critical of some of the Obama administration's economic policies. He has criticized the Obama stimulus plan as being too small and inadequate given the size of the economy and the banking rescue plan as misdirected; Krugman wrote in \"The New York Times\": \"an overwhelming majority [of the American public] believes that the government is spending too much to help large financial institutions. This suggests that the administration's money-for-nothing financial policy will eventually deplete its political capital.\" In particular, he considered the Obama administration's actions to prop up the US financial system in 2009 to be impractical and unduly favorable to Wall Street bankers. In anticipation of President Obama's Job Summit in December 2009, Krugman said in a Fresh Dialogues interview, \"This jobs summit can't be an empty exercise...he can't come out with a proposal for $10 or $20 Billion of stuff because people will view that as a joke. There has to be a significant job proposal...I have in mind something like $300 Billion.\"\n\nKrugman has recently criticized China's exchange rate policy, which he believes to be a significant drag on global economic recovery from the Late-2000s recession, and he has advocated a \"surcharge\" on Chinese imports to the US in response. Jeremy Warner of \"The Daily Telegraph\" accused Krugman of advocating a return to self-destructive protectionism.\n\nIn April 2010, as the Senate began considering new financial regulations, Krugman argued that the regulations should not only regulate financial innovation, but also tax financial-industry profits and remuneration. He cited a paper by Andrei Shleifer and Robert Vishny released the previous week, which concludes that most innovation was in fact about \"providing investors with false substitutes for [traditional] assets like bank deposits,\" and once investors realize the sheer number of securities that are unsafe a \"flight to safety\" occurs which necessarily leads to \"financial fragility.\"\n\nIn his June 28, 2010 column in \"The New York Times\", in light of the recent G-20 Toronto Summit, Krugman criticized world leaders for agreeing to halve deficits by 2013. Krugman claimed that these efforts could lead the global economy into the early stages of a \"third depression\" and leave \"millions of lives blighted by the absence of jobs.\" He advocated instead the continued stimulus of economies to foster greater growth.\n\nIn a 2014 review of Thomas Piketty's \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\" he stated we are in a Second Gilded Age.\n\nKrugman identifies as a Keynesian and a saltwater economist, and he has criticized the freshwater school on macroeconomics. Although he has used New Keynesian theory in his work, he has also criticized it for lacking predictive power and for hewing to ideas like the efficient-market hypothesis and rational expectations. Since the 1990s, he has promoted the practical use of the IS-LM model of the neoclassical synthesis, pointing out its relative simplicity compared to New Keynesian models, and its continued currency in economic policy analysis.\n\nIn the wake of the 2007–2009 financial crisis he has remarked that he is \"gravitating towards a Keynes-Fisher-Minsky view of macroeconomics.\" Post-Keynesian observers cite commonalities between Krugman's views and those of the Post-Keynesian school. In recent academic work, he has collaborated with Gauti Eggertsson on a New Keynesian model of debt-overhang and debt-driven slumps, inspired by the writings of Irving Fisher, Hyman Minsky, and Richard Koo. Their work argues that during a debt-driven slump, the \"paradox of toil\", together with the paradox of flexibility, can exacerbate a liquidity trap, reducing demand and employment.\n\nKrugman's support for free trade in the 1980s–1990s provoked some ire from the anti-globalization movement. In 1987 he quipped that, \"If there were an Economist's Creed, it would surely contain the affirmations 'I understand the Principle of Comparative Advantage' and 'I advocate Free Trade'.\" However, Krugman argues in the same article that, given the findings of New Trade Theory, \"[free trade] has shifted from optimum to reasonable rule of thumb...it can never again be asserted as the policy that economic theory tells us is always right.\" In the article, Krugman comes out in favor of free trade given the enormous political costs of actively engaging in strategic trade policy and because there is no clear method for a government to discover which industries will ultimately yield positive returns. He also notes that increasing returns and strategic trade theory do not disprove the underlying truth of comparative advantage.\n\nIn 2015, Krugman noted his ambivalence about the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, as the agreement was not mainly about trade and, \"whatever you may say about the benefits of free trade, most of those benefits have already been realized\" [by existing agreements].\n\nKrugman describes himself as liberal, and has explained that he views the term \"liberal\" in the American context to mean \"more or less what social democratic means in Europe.\" In a 2009 \"Newsweek\" article, Evan Thomas described Krugman as having \"all the credentials of a ranking member of the East coast liberal establishment\" but also as someone who is anti-establishment, a \"scourge of the Bush administration\", and a critic of the Obama administration. In 1996, \"Newsweek\" Michael Hirsh remarked,\n\nKrugman has at times advocated free markets in contexts where they are often viewed as controversial. He has written against rent control and land-use restrictions in favor of market supply and demand, likened the opposition against free trade and globalization to the opposition against evolution via natural selection (1996), opposed farm subsidies, argued that sweatshops are preferable to unemployment, dismissed the case for living wages (1998), and argued against mandates, subsidies, and tax breaks for ethanol (2000). In 2003, he questioned the usefulness of NASA's manned space flights given the available technology and their high financial cost compared to their general benefits. Krugman has also criticized U.S. zoning laws and European labor market regulation. He calls current Israeli policy \"narrow-minded\" and \"basically a gradual, long-run form of national suicide\", saying that it's \"bad for Jews everywhere, not to mention the world\".\n\nKrugman has criticized the Republican Party leadership for what he sees as a strategic (but largely tacit) reliance on racial divisions. In his \"Conscience of a Liberal\", he wrote:\n\nKrugman worked for Martin Feldstein when the latter was appointed chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and chief economic advisor to President Ronald Reagan. He later wrote in an autobiographical essay, \"It was, in a way, strange for me to be part of the Reagan Administration. I was then and still am an unabashed defender of the welfare state, which I regard as the most decent social arrangement yet devised.\" Krugman found the time \"thrilling, then disillusioning\". He did not fit into the Washington political environment, and was not tempted to stay on.\n\nAccording to Krugman, Gordon Brown and his party were unfairly blamed for the late-2000s financial crisis. He has also praised the former British Prime Minister, whom he described as \"more impressive than any US politician\" after a three-hour conversation with him. Krugman asserted that Brown \"defined the character of the worldwide financial rescue effort\" and urged British voters not to support the opposition Conservative Party in the 2010 General Election, arguing their Party Leader David Cameron \"has had little to offer other than to raise the red flag of fiscal panic.\"\n\nKrugman has been a vocal critic of President Trump and his administration. His criticisms have included the president's climate change proposals, the Republican tax plan and Trump's foreign policy initiatives. Krugman has often used his \"New York Times\" Op-Ed column to set out arguments against the President's policies.\n\nKrugman has been married twice. His first wife, Robin L. Bergman, is a designer. He is currently married to Robin Wells, an academic economist who received her BA from the University of Chicago and her PhD from the University of California, Berkeley. She, as did Krugman, taught at MIT. Together, Krugman and his wife have collaborated on several economics textbooks. Although rumors began to circulate in early 2007 that Krugman's \"son\" was working for Hillary Clinton's campaign, Krugman reiterated in his NY Times Op-Ed column that he and his wife are childless.\n\nKrugman currently lives in New York City. Upon retiring from Princeton after fifteen years of teaching in June 2015, he addressed the issue in his column, stating that while he retains the utmost praise and respect for Princeton, he wishes to reside in New York City and hopes to focus more on public policy issues. He subsequently became a professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and a distinguished scholar at the Graduate Center's Luxembourg Income Study Center.\n\nKrugman reports that he is a distant relative of conservative journalist David Frum. He has described himself as a \"Loner. Ordinarily shy. Shy with individuals.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "690870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690870", "title": "Progressive Federal Party", "text": "Progressive Federal Party\n\nThe Progressive Federal Party (PFP) () was a South African political party formed in 1977. It was the main parliamentary opposition to apartheid, instead advocating power-sharing in South Africa through a federal constitution.\n\nIts first leader was Colin Eglin, who was succeeded by Frederik van Zyl Slabbert and then Zach de Beer. Another prominent member was Harry Schwarz who had led the Reform Party and was the chairman of the Federal Executive (1976–79), finance spokesman (1975–91) and defence spokesman (1975–84). He was regarded as the PFP's greatest parliamentary performer. Its best known parliamentarian was however Helen Suzman, who was for many years the only member of the whites-only parliament to speak out unequivocally against the apartheid regime.\n\nThe party was preceded by the Progressive Party as the liberal opposition to the National Party. While the main opposition United Party contained liberal factions, the PP had for many years been the only purely liberal party represented in parliament. A realignment began when liberal members of the UP left to found the Reform Party in 1975, which merged with the Progressives to form the Progressive Reform Party later the same year.\n\nIn 1977, another group of United Party members left the by then rapidly declining party to form the Committee for a United Opposition, which then joined the Progressive Reform Party to form the Progressive Federal Party.\n\nSouth Africa's apartheid laws initially limited the party's membership to the country's whites, from which it drew support mainly from liberal English speakers. It opened up its membership to all races as soon as this became legal again, in 1984, but the party remained predominantly white and English. It won seats in cities such as Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Johannesburg and Durban. It had very little support amongst Afrikaners, and the PFP was derided by right-wing whites, who claimed its initials stood for 'Packing for Perth', because of the many white liberal supporters of the 'Progs', who were emigrating to Australia.\n\nThe PFP would become the official opposition in the 1977 election, winning 17 seats. Colin Eglin, who had also led the earlier Progressive Party, was initially the leader of the PFP. But over the weekend of 3 September 1979, on the behest of Gordon Waddell, the PFP would hold a special congress in Johannesburg to elect a new leader, citing such reasons as Eglin's \"uninspired\" parliamentary performance, which allowed the ruling Nationalists to recover from the Muldergate slush fund scandal; his \"indiscreet\" contacts with black US politicians Don McHenry and Andy Young, whom many South Africans regarded as enemies of the country; and the party's severe defeats in three recent Parliamentary by-elections. Frederik van Zyl Slabbert succeeded Eglin in 1979.\n\nThe PFP strengthened its opposition status in 1981 by increasing its representation to 27 seats.\n\nIt was ousted as the official opposition by the far-right Conservative Party in the whites-only parliamentary elections held on 6 May 1987.\n\nThis electoral blow led many of the PFP's leaders to question the value of participating in the whites-only parliament, and some of its MPs left to form the New Democratic Movement (NDM).\n\nIn 1989, the PFP and NDM merged with another small white reformist party, the Independent Party (IP), to form the Democratic Party (DP), predecessor to the modern Democratic Alliance (DA).\n\nLeaders of the Progressive Federal Party:\n\n"}
{"id": "26219628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26219628", "title": "Public sector consulting", "text": "Public sector consulting\n\nPublic sector consulting in the US usually refers to the branch of management consulting that works with local and federal governments as well as government agencies. Several major management consulting firms (e.g.: McKinsey, BCG, Booz&Co, Monitor) do public sector engagements as part of their overall business. The biggest public sector consulting firm in the UK is PA Consulting Group. \n\nLike management consulting, the goal of public sector consulting is to help organizations improve their performance, primarily through the analysis of existing problems and the development of plans for improvement.\n\nPublic sector consulting covers a wide range of areas, including:\n\n\nConsultants are usually brought in as experts or facilitators on a given project.\n"}
{"id": "47707435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47707435", "title": "Real estate", "text": "Real estate\n\nReal estate is \"property consisting of land and the buildings on it, along with its natural resources such as crops, minerals or water; immovable property of this nature; an interest vested in this (also) an item of real property, (more generally) buildings or housing in general. Also: the business of real estate; the profession of buying, selling, or renting land, buildings, or housing.\"\nIt is a legal term used in jurisdictions whose legal system is derived from English common law, such as India, the United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Pakistan, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nResidential real estate may contain either a single family or multifamily structure that is available for occupation or for non-business purposes.\n\nResidences can be classified by and how they are connected to neighbouring residences and land. Different types of housing tenure can be used for the same physical type. For example, connected residences might be owned by a single entity and leased out, or owned separately with an agreement covering the relationship between units and common areas and concerns.\n\nThe size of an apartment or house can be described in square feet or meters. In the United States, this includes the area of \"living space\", excluding the garage and other non-living spaces. The \"square meters\" figure of a house in Europe may report the total area of the walls enclosing the home, thus including any attached garage and non-living spaces, which makes it important to inquire what kind of surface area definition has been used. It can be described more roughly by the number of rooms. A studio apartment has a single bedroom with no living room (possibly a separate kitchen). A one-bedroom apartment has a living or dining room separate from the bedroom. Two bedroom, three bedroom, and larger units are common. (A bedroom is a separate room intended for sleeping. It commonly contains a bed and, in newer dwelling units, a built-in closet for clothes storage.)\n\n\nThe size of these is measured in Gaz (square yards), Quila, Marla, Beegha, and acre.\n\nSee List of house types for a complete listing of housing types and layouts, real estate trends for shifts in the market, and house or home for more general information.\n\nIt is common practice for an intermediary to provide real estate owners with dedicated sales and marketing support in exchange for commission. In North America, this intermediary is referred to as a real estate broker (or realtor), whilst in the United Kingdom, the intermediary would be referred to as an estate agent. In Australia the intermediary is referred to as a real estate agent or real estate representative or the agent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44352500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44352500", "title": "Reality Party", "text": "Reality Party\n\nThe Reality Party was a political party in the United Kingdom that was founded in 2014, by Mark \"Bez\" Berry and stood three candidates in the 2015 UK general election. The party manifesto was a centre-left anti-austerity programme which includes policies against privatisation, tuition fees and tax avoidance and in favour of renationalisation, progressive taxation, rent controls, socially-managed housing and participatory democracy.\n\nThe party was deregistered in November, 2016 and its website no longer functions\n\nIn 2014 Channel 4 produced a documentary series following Berry's political campaign. The Reality party toured South Thanet in a green vintage bus in December 2014.\n\nIn January 2015, the Reality Party was deregistered by the Electoral Commission for having a name that was too similar to that of the Realists' Party. Its founder had been given several written warnings that a name change was required, and was removed from the register in January when it had failed to comply. On 12 February 2015 the party re-registered as \"We Are The Reality Party\". They were also permitted to use the description \"The Reality Party It's Your Reality\" on ballot papers.\n\nThe party stood three candidates in the 2015 general election, after some ambiguity over which seats they intended to contest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170320", "title": "Riksdag of the Estates", "text": "Riksdag of the Estates\n\nRiksdag of the Estates (formally ; informally ) was the name used for the Estates of Sweden when they were assembled. Until its dissolution in 1866, the institution was the highest authority in Sweden next to the King. It was a Diet made up of the Four Estates, which historically were the lines of division in Swedish society:\n\n\nThe meeting at Arboga in 1435 is usually considered to be the first Riksdag, but there is no indication that the fourth estate, the peasants, had been represented there.\n\n\nThe constitution of 1809 divided the powers of government between the monarch and the Riksdag of the Estates, and after 1866 between the monarch and the new Riksdag. In 1866 all the Estates voted in favor of dissolution and at the same time to constitute a new assembly, \"Sveriges Riksdag\". The four former estates were abolished. The House of Nobility () remains as a quasi-official representation of the Swedish nobility. The modern Centre Party which grew out of the Swedish farmers' movement, could be construed as a modern representation with a traditional bond to the Estate of the Peasants.\n\nFollowing the Finnish War in 1809, Sweden ceded its eastmost provinces to the Russian Empire. Comprising much of present-day Finland, these became a Grand Duchy under the Emperor, but the political institutions were kept practically intact. The Finnish estates assembled in 1809 at Porvoo to confirm the change in their allegiance. This Diet of Finland followed the forms of the Swedish Riksdag, being the legislative body of the new autonomous region. However, during the reigns of Alexander I and Nicholas I it was not assembled and no new legislation was enacted. The diet was next assembled by tsar Alexander II in 1863, due to the need to modernize the laws. After this the Diet met regularly until 1905, when it passed an act forming a new unicameral parliament. That assembly has been Finland's legislative body since then. The Finnish House of Nobility (; ) carries on the tradition of the Estate of Nobility, but no new families have been ennobled since 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "22159100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22159100", "title": "River basin management plans", "text": "River basin management plans\n\nRiver basin management plans are a management tool in integrated water resources management. They generally contain descriptions of the water resources in a drainage basin and water allocation plans.\n\nRiver Basin Management Plans are a requirement of the Water Framework Directive and a means of achieving the protection, improvement and sustainable use of the water environment across Europe. This includes surface freshwaters (including lakes, streams and rivers), groundwater, ecosystems such as some wetlands that depend on groundwater, estuaries and coastal waters out to one nautical mile.\n\nThe Directive requires member states to aim to achieve at least \"good status\" in each water body within their river basin districts. Each member state must produce a plan for each of the river basin districts within its territory.\n\nPlans must include: objectives for each water body; reasons for not achieving objectives where relevant; and the programme of actions required to meet the objectives.\n\nRiver Basin Management Plans were published for several member states in December 2010.\n\nIn November 2009, Water Directors of EU Member States issued a guidance document on adaptation to climate change in water management. The document is the first result of numerous actions included in the European Commission White Paper \"Adapting to climate change; Towards a European framework for action\". The document includes guidance on how to take climate change into account in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, the Floods Directive and the Strategy on Water Scarcity and Droughts.\n\n"}
{"id": "47870886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47870886", "title": "SEALDs", "text": "SEALDs\n\nSEALDs, short for , was a student activist organisation in Japan that organised protests against the ruling coalition headed by Prime Minister Shinzō Abe in 2015 and 2016. Its focus was on the security-related bills enacted in 2015 that allow the Japanese Self-Defense Force to be deployed overseas.\n\nMost of the core members of the SEALDs were involved with a predecessor movement, Students Against Secret Protection Law (SASPL), that protested against Shinzo Abe's Special Secrecy Law from February to December 2014. After the secrecy law was passed, the members went on to form SEALDs on May 3, 2015, Constitution Memorial Day in Japan, to highlight what they believed was Shinzo Abe's blatant disregard of the Constitution. They were especially worried that the Abe cabinet, which enjoyed a majority in both Houses of the Japanese Parliament, would railroad their legislation to reinterpret Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution, allowing Japan to exercise the right of collective self-defence and potentially deploy troops on foreign soil. (Such legislation was passed on September 19, 2015.)\n\nOn August 30, 2015, the SEALDs was among protesters who surrounded the National Diet Building in Tokyo. Estimates of the size of the crowd ranged from 30,000 to 120,000. Such a large student movement had not emerged in Japan since the anti-war protests of the 1960s, which forced Shinzo Abe's grandfather Nobusuke Kishi to resign as Prime Minister. However, in contrast to the Zengakuren, whose radicalism eventually alienated the public in the 1960s, the SEALDs attempted to be moderate and non-partisan.\n\nBranches of SEALDs sprang up in various places around Japan. SEALDs KANSAI was established in May 2015, SEALDs TOHOKU on July 20, SEALDs RYUKYU in Okinawa on August 15, and SEALDs TOKAI in Nagoya on September 7.\n\nThe security laws were enacted on March 29, 2016. SEALDs organised a protest in front of the Parliament building the day before. \n\nSEALDs' activities ranged from holding demonstrations, protest rallies and marches, organizing study groups and talk events, to creating booklets, pamphlets and videos, using social media. They also moved around the country to support various movements and candidates, such as the protests in Okinawa against the US military base and the Hokkaido by-elections in April 2016.\n\nSEALDs disbanded on August 15, 2016, one month after the ruling Liberal Democratic Party won a supermajority in the Upper House election. However, co-founder Aki Okuda (奥田愛基) stated that the campaign was not over and urged all of Japan's politicians to continue to protect the Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "32836040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32836040", "title": "Social class differences in food consumption", "text": "Social class differences in food consumption\n\nPeople from different social classes eat different foods. Not all foods are available to everyone. People start to learn to like foods that are appropriate to their class while they are children. Based on the food that people decide to consume, their social class position is often revealed.\n\nPeople from the middle classes generally enjoy healthier diets than their lower class counterparts. Part of the explanation for this is that middle-class parents tend to be less permissive in their food choices, are less concerned with the cost of food products, and are more attuned to issues of health. However, permissiveness, health and cost considerations are insufficient to account for the social class variation in food consumption.\n\nThe significance of a food surplus in class demarcation ought to be highlighted in this section. In antiquity, those (typically upper classes) hoarding a sizeable surplus of harvests were granted experimental agencies leading to the development of elite cuisines. This principle may be contextualized by food historian Rachel Laudan’s assertion that “the humble, constantly at risk of real hunger, had every reason not to experiment with innovative cooking techniques” due to a scarce reserve of harvests. \n\nSocial class differences in food consumption are not necessarily static. A study of Finnish consumption patterns for the period from 1979 to 1990 found that across all classes the consumption of butter, high-fat milk, coffee and sugar had decreased and the consumption of vegetables had increased. From the mid-1980s, social class differences in food consumption had diminished with the lower social classes following consumption patterns established by the upper classes.\n\nAuthor of \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgment of Taste,\" French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu wrote extensively on how people of different social classes (specifically the working class) choose what they eat. According to Bourdieu, there isn't much of a choice when it comes to food regarding the working class. The middle class decides which foods are \"good\" and \"bad\", which in turn influences what the working class consumes. While the middle class can afford to eat whatever they'd like, the working class simply has a \"taste for necessity\" and eats what they can afford.\n\nA food desert is a geographical area that lacks adequate grocery stores or markets that provide fresh and nutritious foods that are financially accessible to the people within the area. Food deserts are often found in lower income neighborhoods, which in turn limits the availability of higher quality foods to residents of these neighborhoods. Since the residents of these areas are not able to consistently shop for groceries within a reasonable distance from where they reside, this results in their regular consumption of foods considered unsuitable for maintaining a healthy and nutritious diet (i.e. fast food or food from convenience stores).\n\nPeople tend to define types of foods as belonging to a certain class based on how expensive (or inexpensive) they are. In a study done on students who were asked to categorize restaurant menu items into each of the different social classes, students considered cheap, simple meals lower-class while meals that were much more expensive and came with a choice of wine were considered upper-class.\n\nSince the early 2000s, restaurants and fast-food chains have been incorporating gourmet hamburgers into their menus which often consist of high-end or exotic ingredients. While people of all social classes have access to fast-food restaurants that sell \"better burgers\" (which are burgers that are considered to be of greater quality than the traditional burger), some restaurants sell expensive burgers that are exclusive to those who can afford them.\n\nFood-secure Canadians perceive Kraft Dinners as comforting while food insecure Canadians find it discomforting. This is due to the fact that the food-secure Canadians can afford to eat meals other than those made by Kraft, while food-insecure Canadians have very few options. Furthermore, Kraft meal kits are often found at food banks and charities which contributes to the reason why food-insecure people who visit these places find them undesirable.\n\n"}
{"id": "4166238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166238", "title": "Socialist People's Party (Furness)", "text": "Socialist People's Party (Furness)\n\nThe People's Party or Socialist People's Party was a minor political party in the Furness region of England.\n\nThe party was founded in 1995 by four Labour Party borough councillors who had been suspended from Labour for opposing a reduction in the housing budget. It was initially known as the People's Labour Party, and stood their chair, Jim Hamezeian, in the Barrow and Furness constituency in the 1997 general election. He received 1,995 votes, 4.1% of the total in the constituency.\n\nThe party campaigned on a variety of local issues. A split led to two of its four councillors leaving and standing as independents in the 2003 local elections; the two People's Party councillors then lost their seats. However, in the 2006 local elections, party leader Jim Hamezian regained his seat in the Ormsgill ward.\n\nIn the 2008 local elections, one councillor was elected in Central Ward and three others elected in Ormsgill. Following this, in elections to Cumbria County Council in 2009, Jim Hamezeian was elected to serve for Ormsgill ward in Barrow-in-Furness.\n\nAfter that, the party's support dropped: in the 2010 local elections the SPP lost two councillors, and lost all representation on the Borough council in 2011 local elections. The SPP retained one councillor on Cumbria County Council until the May 2013 elections, when they lost all representation. The party deregistered with the Electoral Commission in 2015 and its website is no longer active.\n\n"}
{"id": "850260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850260", "title": "South African Youth Congress", "text": "South African Youth Congress\n\nThe South African Youth Congress (SAYCO) was a pro-African National Congress youth organization, active in the struggle against Apartheid. The motto of SAYCO was \"Victory is Certain - Freedom or Death\". In 1990 SAYCO merged with the ANC Youth League.\n"}
{"id": "34465850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34465850", "title": "Student Government in the Philippines", "text": "Student Government in the Philippines\n\nThe Student Government Program (SGP) is the Philippines' program for pupil governments in elementary schools student governments in secondary schools of the Department of Education, under the Office of the Undersecretary for Regional Operations. It is the foremost co-curricular student organization authorized to implement pertinent programs, projects, and activities in Philippine schools as mandated by the Department of Education.\n\nThe Philippines has a complex student union with different names such as \"student government\", the term used in all public secondary schools and some of the universities and/or colleges and \"student council\" for most of the colleges/universities.\n\nThe Center for Students and Co-Curricular Affairs (CSCA) was established in 1996 in order to further facilitate co-curricular work of student councils in the country and mold them to be better leaders.\nIn 2003, the Supreme Student Governments were institutionalized starting with the establishment of the National Federation of Supreme Student Governments (NFSSG) with David Maulas of Bohol as its first National Federation President elected during the 1st National Leadership Training for Student Government Officers (NLTSGO). An institutionalized Constitution and By Laws of the Supreme Student Governments were enforced through a Department Order No. 43, s. 2005, then revised in 2009 as per Department Order No. 79, s. 2009. The last set of National Federation officers were elected September 2012 with Raja Barber of Oriental Mindoro as the last National Federation President.\nIn 2014, through Department Order No. 47, s. 2014 the Constitution and By-Laws of Supreme Pupil Governments in elementary schools and Supreme Student Governments in secondary schools around the country were unified. This marks the year where the Supreme Pupil Governments are institutionalized.\nCurrently the program is now under the Office of the Undersecretary for Regional Operations.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "55057584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55057584", "title": "Syrian Revolution Network", "text": "Syrian Revolution Network\n\nThe Syrian Revolution Network (), originally called the Syrian Revolution 2011 and the Syrian Days of Rage, is a Syrian opposition activist organization active in the Syrian Civil War. It was originally a Facebook page created by Fida al-Sayed, a Swedish activist living in Eskilstuna, during the Arab Spring in the beginning of 2011. By May 2011, it was considered the most influential Syrian activist organization in the mobilization of protesters against the Syrian government during the Syrian uprising.\n\nIn January 2011, during the Arab Spring and the Egyptian Revolution, Fida al-Sayed, together with his two younger brothers Mustafa and Yasir, created the page \"Syrian Revolution\" on Facebook. By February, the page gained more than 16,000 followers. It began to call for a \"day of rage\" in Syria against the government of Bashar al-Assad, but was initially not able to mobilize protests in Syria.\n\nIn an interview on Nyhetsmorgon at TV4, Fida explained that when he started the page before the \"revolution,\" people laughed at him and said that there will never be an uprising in Syria, while others supported the initiative. He pointed several times that it is a peaceful movement for freedom and democracy. He said that they did not have to do any marketing for the page, as the situation in Syria was marketing itself. He said he no longer administrated the page alone, he only founded it, and he now has the help of hundreds of young people in Syria.\n\nOn 15 March 2011, around 200 protesters gathered in Damascus to demand reforms and the end to the state of emergency in Syria. The Syrian Revolution 2011 Facebook page, then with more than 41,000 followers, called for the protest.\n\nOn 18 March 2011, the Syrian Revolution 2011 Facebook page called for a \"Day of Dignity\" in Syria. After Islamic Friday prayers, thousands of protesters gathered in 4 cities, notably in Daraa, and called for freedom and democracy and against corruption. Government forces violently suppressed all of the protests.\n\nIn April 2011, the Syrian Revolution 2011 Facebook page had more than 120,000 followers. It once again called for Syrians to take to the streets for Friday protests in Syria. By May, the Facebook page, which had more than 180,000 followers, transformed into a wider network with more than 250,000 members in more than 8 social media sites. The Syrian Revolution Network became the most influential Syrian opposition organization, influencing and mobilizing thousands of protesters against the Syrian government. \n\nIn July 2011, BBC Arabic showed in a special report how Fida run the page from his apartment in Eskilstuna. Fida explained that 75% of the administrators who ran the site were from within Syria. Fida also told that it is a difficult process before a video is approved and posted on the site: the event must have been filmed and sent by various independent sources, even sometimes needed to be confirmed by filming the date on a local newspaper, or that some of the protesters show big signs where you can clearly see the week's campaign name. \n\nOne of the key media activists affiliated with the Syrian Revolution Network is Moaz al-Shami. Moaz al-Shami was from Damascus, and during the first 3 years of the Syrian Civil War, he mainly operated in and around Damascus. Battles of the war he covered in Damascus included the Damascus offensive of November 2012 and the Damascus offensive of February 2013, In March 2013, Reuters considered Moaz al-Shami to be one of the leading opposition activists in Damascus.\n\nSome time later in the war, Moaz al-Shami moved to the Idlib Governorate in northwestern Syria, where he currently operates. Since September 2015, he covered the Russian military intervention in Syria, including the bombing of Aleppo and Idlib by the Russian Air Force. \n\nOn 7 March 2016, while he was covering protests in rebel-held towns in Idlib, Moaz was arrested by al-Qaeda's al-Nusra Front, part of the Army of Conquest. On 5 December 2016, he was once again arrested by the Army of Conquest after disputes with an Army of Conquest Sharia judge in Idlib, but was soon released after.\n\nIn the beginning of 2017, Moaz al-Shami covered the rise of Tahrir al-Sham in Idlib. On 4 April 2017, he recorded photographs and videos of the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack and its aftermath.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41966906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41966906", "title": "Terrorist Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures", "text": "Terrorist Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures\n\nTactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) is an essential concept in terrorism and cyber security studies.\n\nThe role of TTPs in terrorism analysis is to identify individual patterns of behavior of a particular terrorist activity, or a particular terrorist organisation, and to examine and categorize more general tactics and weapons used by a particular terrorist activity, or a particular terrorist organisation.\n\nThe current approach to terrorism analysis involves an examination of individual terrorist, or terrorist organisations use of particular weapons, used in specific ways, and different tactics and strategies being exhibited. Broadly, a wide range of TTPs have been exhibited historically by individual terrorist, or terrorist organisations worldwide.\n\nAll terrorists, or terrorist organisations, worldwide historically have exhibited an evolution in TTPs. This can be as a result of:\nIn the case of the Taliban, their tactics have consisted primarily of guerrilla-style improvised explosive device (IED) attacks and small-arms ambushes against international and state-level security forces and interests, such as police checkpoints and military supply convoys. However, more recently Taliban TTPs have expanded to include mass casualty attacks by suicide bombers and other suicide attacks in order to undermine the current government.\n\nThe kill-chain model (KCM) is a conceptual tool used in terrorism analysis and studies. All terrorists' or terrorist organisations' TTPs form part of understanding the terrorist kill chain, which is the pattern of transactional activities, link together in order for a terrorist act to take place. Broadly, this involves describing the 'hierarchy of tasks and sub-tasks that may be involved in the execution', or in making a terrorist act happen. These can include the arrangement and sequence of activities a terrorist or terrorist organisation uses in planning, organizing, mobilizing, training, equipping and staging resources and operatives. These activities make up the terrorist or terrorist organisations' modus operandi or 'attack system'.\nFour sets of steps make-up the full KCM:\n\nThe KCM “sequence of activities” is not linear, but discontinuous. Three additional KCM scenarios can be identified:\n\nTerrorist TTPs are often transferred between various terrorists, or terrorist organisations, and they often learn from each other. The degree to which the transfer of TTPs occurs depends on their relative success when transferred to a different conflict, and a different environment.\nThe similarities in TTPs between various terrorists, or terrorist organisations, across conflicts and periods suggest a transfer of information.\n\nSeveral key tactical concepts can be related to TTPs, which are typically used in terrorism or insurgency operations.\n"}
{"id": "6047029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6047029", "title": "The rich get richer and the poor get poorer", "text": "The rich get richer and the poor get poorer\n\n\"The rich get richer and the poor get poorer\" is an aphorism due to Percy Bysshe Shelley. In \"A Defence of Poetry (\"1821, not published until 1840) Shelley remarked that the promoters of utility had\n\n\"To him that hath\" \"etc\". is a reference to Matthew 25:29 (the parable of the talents, see also Matthew effect). The aphorism is commonly evoked, with variations in wording, as a synopsis of the effect of free market capitalism producing inequality.\n\nAndrew Jackson, the seventh President of the U.S. (1829–1837), in his 1832 bank veto, said that\n\nThe phrase also resembles two Bible verses from the Gospel of Matthew:\n\nThe phrase was popularized in 1921 in the wildly successful song \"Ain't We Got Fun?\", and the phrase is sometimes attributed to the song's lyricists, Gus Kahn and Raymond B. Egan.\nThe line is sometimes mistakenly attributed to F. Scott Fitzgerald. It appears in \"The Great Gatsby\", as \nThe character Gatsby orders the character Klipspringer, sitting at the piano, \"Don't talk so much, old sport... Play!\" and Klipspringer breaks into the Whiting, Kahn and Egan song.\n\nThomas Piketty's book \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\" (2014) presents a body of empirical data spanning several hundred years that supports his central thesis that the owners of capital accumulate wealth more quickly than those who provide labour, a phenomenon widely described with the term \"the rich-get-richer\".\n\nIn the United States, the phrase has been used frequently to describe socioeconomic trends under the Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush presidencies, and in the United Kingdom to refer to the Thatcher era. Thatcher famously retorted to a question posed by the Lib Dem MP Simon Hughes about wealth inequality in the United Kingdom by saying \"he would rather that the poor were poorer, provided that the rich were less rich. ... What a policy. Yes, he would rather have the poor poorer, provided that the rich were less rich. That is the Liberal policy.\" It has also been used in the UK to refer to the 2010–2015 coalition and 2015–2016 governments led by David Cameron.\n\nIn statistics, the phrase \"the rich get richer\" is often used as an informal description of the behavior of Chinese restaurant processes and other preferential attachment processes, where the probability of the next outcome in a series taking on a particular value is proportional to the number of outcomes already having that particular value. This is useful for modeling many real-world processes that are akin to \"popularity contests\", where the popularity of a particular choice causes new participants to adopt the same choice (which can lead to the outsized influence of the first few participants).\n\nProduct recommendations and information about past purchases have been shown to influence consumers choices significantly whether it is for music, movie, book, technological, and other type of products. Social influence often induces a rich-get-richer phenomenon (Matthew effect) where popular products tend to become even more popular.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "595213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595213", "title": "Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan", "text": "Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan\n\nThe Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan is a registered provincial political party in Saskatchewan, Canada. It advocates for the independence of Saskatchewan, and libertarian ideals. It is not affiliated with any federal party. It supports fiscally conservative and socially moderate policies.\n\nThe party was formed on July 12, 2003, and nominated 17 candidates in the November 5, 2003 provincial election. These candidates won a total of 2,735 votes, or 0.64% of the provincial total.\n\nThe past party president is Frank Serfas, and the past deputy leader is David Sawkiw. The party nominated eight candidates for the 2007 election, two in the 2011 election, and four in the 2016 election.\n\nAt 2018, the party's current leader is Neil Fenske. \n\nBesides the party's support for independence, the party's platform is secular and libertarian in nature, a distinguishing feature from some of the other separatist parties in Western Canada. The WIP of Saskatchewan has no ties with the Separation Party of Alberta, the Western Canada Party, or the Alberta Independence Party.\n\nThe party not affiliated to the Western Canada Concept Party of British Columbia or the British Columbia-based Western Block Party and has made considerable effort to distance itself from Doug Christie, the leader of those parties. Whereas Christie has been mired in controversy for defending Holocaust deniers and has been accused of being an anti-Semite, the WIP has made an explicit statement in support of the State of Israel.\n\nThe Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan is a registered political party in the province of Saskatchewan, with a focus on three principles:\n\n\n"}
