{"id": "13128382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13128382", "title": "1952 Farnborough Airshow crash", "text": "1952 Farnborough Airshow crash\n\nOn 6 September 1952, a prototype de Havilland DH.110 jet fighter crashed during an aerial display at the Farnborough Airshow in Hampshire, England, killing 31 people. The jet disintegrated mid-air during an aerobatic manoeuvre, causing the death of pilot John Derry and onboard flight test observer Anthony Richards. Debris from the aircraft fell onto a crowd of spectators, killing 29 people and injuring 60.\n\nThe cause of the break-up was later determined to be structural failure due to a design flaw in the wing's leading edge. All DH.110s were initially grounded, but after modification to its design, the type entered service with the Royal Navy as the Sea Vixen.\n\nStrict safety procedures were subsequently enacted for UK air shows and there were no further spectator fatalities until the 2015 Shoreham Airshow crash in which 11 people died.\n\nThe planned demonstration of the DH.110 on that day was nearly cancelled when the aircraft at Farnborough, \"WG 240\", an all-black night fighter prototype, became unserviceable. It was de Havilland's second DH.110 prototype, and had been taken supersonic over the show on the opening day. Derry and Richards then collected \"WG 236\", the first DH.110 prototype, from de Havilland's factory in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, and flew it to Farnborough with just enough time to start their slot.\n\nFollowing a supersonic dive and flypast from and during a left bank at about toward the air show's 120,000 spectators, the pilot pulled up into a climb. In less than a second, the aircraft disintegrated: the outer sections of the wing, both engines and the cockpit separated from the airframe. The cockpit, with the two crew members still inside, fell right in front of the spectators nearest the runway, injuring several people. The engines travelled much further on a ballistic trajectory; one engine crashed harmlessly, but the second one ploughed into the so-called Observation Hill, causing most of the fatalities. The rest of the airframe fluttered down and crashed on the opposite side of the runway.\n\nOne eyewitness was Richard Gardner, then five years old. He recalled in adulthood:\n\nSixty-three years later, speaking on the BBC \"Today\" radio programme in the wake of the Shoreham Airshow disaster, author Moyra Bremner recalled her own traumatic experience. A huge bang silenced the crowd and was followed by \"My God, look out\" from the commentator. Bremner, standing on the roof of her parents' car, realised that an engine was heading straight towards her. It passed a few feet over her head, a \"massive shining cylinder\", and then plunged into the crowd on the hill behind.\n\nFollowing the accident the air display programme continued once the debris was cleared from the runway, with Neville Duke exhibiting the prototype Hawker Hunter and taking it supersonic over the show later that day.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II and Duncan Sandys, the Minister of Supply, both sent messages of condolence. The coroner's jury recorded that Derry and Richards had \"died accidentally in the normal course of their duty\", and that \"the deaths [of the spectators] were accidental\", adding that \"no blame is attached to Mr. John Derry\".\n\nThe investigation concluded that the manoeuvring had caused an airframe instability because of a faulty D-nose leading edge arrangement (which had successfully been used in the lighter subsonic de Havilland Vampire). The redesigned DH.110 resumed flights in June 1953 and was eventually developed into the de Havilland Sea Vixen naval fighter.\n\nMore stringent airshow safety measures were subsequently introduced: jets were obliged to keep at least from crowds if flying straight and when performing manoeuvres, and always at an altitude of at least .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90561", "title": "642 BC", "text": "642 BC\n\nThe year 642 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 112 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 642 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "9711098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711098", "title": "6th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "6th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 6th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Torcon, was held July 3–5, 1948, at RAI Purdy Studios in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was the first time the convention was held outside the United States.\n\nThe chairman was Ned McKeown. The guests of honor were Robert Bloch (pro) and Bob Tucker (fan). Total attendance was approximately 200.\n\n"}
{"id": "13910159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13910159", "title": "Abdallah Higazy", "text": "Abdallah Higazy\n\nAbdallah Higazy is a citizen of Egypt residing in the United States who sued alleging that the FBI coerced a confession from him.\n\nHigazy was arrested following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. He alleges that the FBI threatened to torture his family unless he confessed to being involved in the attacks. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, issued a decision holding that Higazy had stated a 5th Amendment claim, and then removed the decision from the court's website and shortly thereafter replaced it with a redacted version. The redacted version omitted approximately one page of details relating to the FBI's alleged interrogation of Higazy during a polygraph examination. On September 24, 2009, Abdallah was paid approximately $250,000 by the FBI for his treatment and wrongful detention.\nAccording to the original opinion, Higazy was an Egyptian student staying at the Millenium Hilton Hotel near the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Hotel security claimed they found an aviation radio in Higazy's safe. The FBI questioned Higazy, guessing he might somehow have been communicating with or aiding the 9/11 pilots. Higazy denied he owned the radio.\n\nThe FBI wanted Higazy to be detained as a material witness, but the federal judge allowed only a 10-day detention, because the evidence suggesting Higazy's involvement in 9/11 was not very strong. On the ninth day, an FBI agent conducted a polygraph test during which, according to Higazy, the agent told Higazy that unless Higazy confessed to owning the radio, they would \"make sure that Egyptian security (gave) his family Hell,\" which both parties understood to include torture. Higazy confessed to owning the radio. A criminal complaint was then filed against Higazy, and he was detained without bail.\n\nApproximately three weeks later, the airline pilot who actually owned the radio returned to the Hilton Hotel to reclaim his property, which he had left at the hotel. Two days later, Higazy was released after spending a total of 34 days in custody.\n\nThe CBS television show \"60 Minutes\" interviewed Higazy in 2004, and the CBS website includes most of Higazy's allegations. A newspaper account of the redaction quotes the clerk for the appellate court stating that the decision to reissue the opinion in redacted format was not done at the request of the Justice Department or the FBI, and that the redacted information was originally sealed for the safety of Higazy and his family.\n"}
{"id": "28601075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28601075", "title": "African Writers' Evening", "text": "African Writers' Evening\n\nThe African Writers' Evening is the first regular evening held for African writers at the UK's Poetry Café. It was started in 2003 by Nii Ayikwei Parkes in consultation with the directors of the Poetry Society after he completed a residency there. The solid reputation of African Writers' Evening is based on its ability to consistently identify and feature talented emerging writers.\n\nDiana Evans and Hisham Matar, for example, were both featured prior to the official releases of their début publications, two of 2007′s features Ken Kamoche and Sade Adeniran were shortlisted for the 2008 Commonwealth Prize for their first books, and Inua Ellams won an Edinburgh Festival Fringe First Award three years after his first featured appearance at African Writers' Evening in 2006. Recently, the event's founder Nii Ayikwei Parkes was himself shortlisted for the Commonwealth Prize and the November 2009 featured reader, Nadifa Mohamed won the 2010 Betty Trask Award.\n\nAfrican Writers' Evening is held bi-monthly from March to November with occasional special events, such as the AWE Heritage Series launched at the Southbank Centre on 6 July 2009 and AWE/NYC, which was held at the Bowery Club in September 2009. While the event is still held mainly at the Poetry Café in Covent Garden, a recent partnership with the Southbank Centre has seen the end-of-year reading in November held at the Royal Festival Hall since 2008.\n\nAfrican Writers' Evening features writers of all genres and defines \"African\" based on lived experience rather than simplistic notions of heritage. Featured writers have included white writers like Robyn Scott, Isobel Dixon and Gillian Slovo, as well as Africans of Indian origin such as Sharmila Chauhan.\n\nThe first African Writers' Evening was held in July 2003 at the Poetry Café and featured Nii Ayikwei Parkes (who was writer-in-residence at the venue), Jessica Horn, a Ugandan poet, and Abby Ajayi, a Nigerian-British short story and script writer. The event in its current format started in July 2004. Its tagline is: \"Where Africa speaks and the world listens\".\n\nAfrican Writers' Evening initially paid writers travel expenses and they read for free as a way of supporting the reading series. However, in September 2005, the series received funding from the Arts Council of England and began to pay the featured writers an appearance fee. This development allowed the series to begin flying writers in from abroad to share their work: Helon Habila's appearance at the Royal Festival Hall in 2009 was part of this trend.\n\nSince the New York event held in September 2009, African Writers' Evening appears to be on a path of expansion and collaboration. In April 2010, they held an event in Birmingham in collaboration with The Drum Theatre, the British Council and London Book Festival and in July 2010 a book sale event, named the African Book Market was held at the Poetry Café in partnership with major publishers, such as Random House, as well as smaller outfits like Serpent's Tail. They also announced a book discussion initiative starting in September 2010.\n\nThe event is run by a London-based collective called London Society, Literature, Arts and Music Central, abbreviated as London SLAM Central.\n\n"}
{"id": "55702561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55702561", "title": "Amadora BD", "text": "Amadora BD\n\nAmadora BD (formerly known as FIBDA) is an annual comic book festival held in Amadora, Portugal. Founded in 1989, it is considered the most important cartoon festival in Portugal and one of the most important European competitions.\n\nGenerally, the show occurs over the course of three weeks in late October–early November.\n\nThe festival allows for the interaction between professionals and authors of different nationalities with the public, as well as holding public exhibitions, and a multitude of activities related to the \"Ninth art\" including panels and film showings.\n\nSince 2000, the festival is organized around an annual theme and each year awards prizes (\"Prémios Nacionais de Banda Desenhada\") to authors and publishers (including a \"Troféu de Honra\" — \"Trophy of Honor\").\n\nFIBDA (\"Festival Internacional de Banda Desenhada da Amadora\")'s first edition was in 1990, organized by the Câmara Municipal de Amadora. The first international guest was Belgian cartoonist Morris.\n\nSpecial guests of the eighth edition (1997) included Jean-Claude Mézières Pierre Christin, François Schuiten, Benoît Peeters, Enki Bilal, André Juillard, Ted Benoît, Jean Van Hamme, Theo van den Boogaard, Kevin O'Neill, and Miguelanxo Prado.\n\nThe eleventh edition of the show, held October 20–November 5, 2000, was the first one with a theme: superheroes. Guests included Rick Veitch, Dave Gibbons, Peter David, Joe Kubert, Jerry Robinson, and Luke Ross.\n\nThe 13th edition was held October 18–November 3, 2002; Michael Dean of \"The Comics Journal\" made a presentation on the \"Century's Greatest Comics in the World\". Guests included Chris Ware.\n\nThe fourteenth edition of the festival was held October 17-November 2, 2003, and included around 20 exhibitions.\n\nThe 2008 edition was dedicated to technology and science fiction.\n\nIn 2009 the festival officially changed its name to Amadora BD.\n\nThe 22nd edition of the show in 2011 was centered around the theme of humor; \"Peanuts\" creator Charles M. Schulz's widow Jean was a special guest, as was Shannon Wheeler.\n\nThe 28th edition of the festival was held October 27–November 12, 2017, with a focus on comics journalism; guests included Ted Rall and Josh Neufeld. Other exhibitions focused on Jack Kirby and Will Eisner.\n"}
{"id": "33376286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33376286", "title": "Aurigids", "text": "Aurigids\n\nAurigids is a meteor shower occurring primarily within September.\n\nThe comet Kiess (C/1911 N1) is the source of the material that causes the meteors. The comets orbital period is stated as approximately 1800 to 2000 years, with showers observed in the years 1935, '86, '94 and 2007 .\n\nThe Alpha were discovered by C. Hoffmeister and A. Teichgraeber, during the night of 31 August 1935.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "33216758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33216758", "title": "Bashmurian revolt", "text": "Bashmurian revolt\n\nBashmurian revolt () (also \"Peshmurian\" revolt) was the revolt of the Coptic Christians living in Bashmur in the northern Nile Delta against the Abbasids, which occurred around 830. The revolt (and others previous) were attributed to oppressive taxation.\n\nThe rebels expelled the state workers and raised the banner of rebellion refusing to pay tribute (special tax on non-Muslims called the jizya). Caliph Al-Ma'mun, who was visiting the province, put down the rebellion, arresting and killing large numbers of Copts and their dependants. According to historian Ira M. Lapidus, the crushing of the rebellion was followed by \"despair\" among the Copts and began a second wave of major persecution, which hadn't been seen since the entry of Islam to Egypt in 642.\n\n"}
{"id": "53258898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53258898", "title": "Calendar Girls (musical)", "text": "Calendar Girls (musical)\n\nCalendar Girls (previously titled The Girls) is a musical with music and lyrics by Gary Barlow and a book by Tim Firth. The show is based on the 2003 film Calendar Girls, which is in turn based on a true story. The musical received its world premiere at the Grand Theatre, Leeds in 2015, before transferring to The Lowry, Salford in January 2016. It went on to open in London's West End at the Phoenix Theatre in February 2017, with a UK Tour tour starting in October 2018.\n\nAnnie's husband John dies from leukaemia at an early age. Her close friend Chris, wants to purchase a comfortable sofa for the visitors' lounge in the hospital where John was treated. She hits upon the idea of printing a calendar featuring some of the members of the Knapely branch of the Women's Institute, discreetly posing nude while engaged in traditional WI activities, such as baking and knitting, in order to raise funds. Her proposal is initially met with great scepticism, but she eventually convinces ten women to participate in the project with her. They enlist one of the hospital workers, an amateur photographer named Lawrence, to help them with the calendar.\nThe musical is based on the 2003 film \"Calendar Girls\". The film itself was produced on a budget of $10 million, earning over $96 million in global box office receipts. A stage play adaption was launched in 2008 at the Chichester Festival Theatre, before embarking on a national tour and transferring to the West End's Noël Coward Theatre in 2009.\n\nThe musical originally premiered as \"The Girls\" at the Grand Theatre, Leeds on 14 November 2015, running to 12 December. The production then transferred to The Lowry, Salford from 13 to 30 January 2016. It was jointly directed by Roger Haines and Tim Firth.\n\nThe production transferred to the West End at the Phoenix Theatre with an official opening night on 21 February 2017, with previews from 28 January 2017.\n\nIt was directed by Tim Firth, with sets and costume design by Rob Jones, lighting by Tim Lutkin, musical staging by Lizzi Gee, comedy staging by Jos Houben, sound design by Terry Jardine and Nick Lidster for Autograph Design, and projection design by Alex Uragllo, \n\nThe production closed in the West End on 15 July 2017, as it was announced that it would commence a UK tour in 2018.\n\nIn 2017, the show’s title was changed to \"Calendar Girls The Musical\" .\n\nIn October 2017, the first two venues of the UK Tour were announced as Leeds Grand Theatre and Marlowe Theatre, Canterbury. A full list of dates was announced on 19 January 2018.\n\nIn January 2018, the touring cast was announced and included Fern Britton, Denise Welch, Ruth Madoc and Sara Crowe.\n\n\n\nThe London Cast Recording was released on 9 March 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1582273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582273", "title": "Canadian Rally Championship", "text": "Canadian Rally Championship\n\nThe Canadian Rally Championship is an automobile rallying championship sanctioned by the Canadian Association of RallySport (CARS) held since 1957 in Canada.\n\nThe Canadian Rally Championship (CRC) is Canada's only national rallying series. 2007 marked the 50th anniversary of the Canadian Rally Championship, making it the longest running motorsport series in Canada. It has been run continuously since 1957 when Leslie Chelminski and Les Stanley from Montreal shared the very first national rally title in a factory-prepared Volkswagen Karmann-Ghia. In the early days, the rally championship was based on a navigational (also called time-speed-distance or TSD) rally series which, at times, had as many as twenty events in the series. The most notable Canadian car rallies in those days were the Canadian Winter Rally and the Shell 4000. Some Rally champions from the TSD era include Art Dempsey, Bill Silvera, and Canadian Motorsport Hall of Fame inductees John Bird, Paul S. Manson, and Bruce D. Simpson.\n\nAs the sport gradually changed and adopted the European \"stage\" format, performance rallying became part of the Canadian motorsport picture. As opposed to TSD rallies, where competitors are required to follow the organizer's schedule, travel below posted speed limits and otherwise adhere to the rules of the public roads they are traveling on, performance rallies incorporate high speed \"special stages\" on roads closed to vehicles other than the rally cars, which must be specially prepared with full safety equipment. In 1973, the Canadian Rally Championship became based solely on stage rallies, including the Rally of the Tall Pines, which is still the premier event, and is held in November every year.\n\nThe CRC consists of 7 national events for 2018. These events take place on gravel or snow-covered roads from coast to coast.\n\nThe following standings are based on an individual's placings in the first six overall positions on all Canadian Championship Performance Rallies from 1973 to 2016.\nThere are 13 drivers who have attained Grand Master status (>2000 points)\n"}
{"id": "1720795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720795", "title": "Cenacle", "text": "Cenacle\n\nThe Cenacle (from Latin \"cēnāculum\" \"dining room\", later spelt coenaculum and semantically drifting towards \"upper room\"), also known as the \"Upper Room\", is a room in the David's Tomb Compound in Jerusalem, traditionally held to be the site of the Last Supper. \n\nThe word is a derivative of the Latin word \"cēnō\", which means \"I dine\". The Gospel of Mark employs the Koine Greek: αναγαιον, \"anagaion\", (), whereas the Acts of the Apostles uses Koine Greek: ύπερωιον, \"hyperōion\" (), both with the meaning \"upper room\". The language in Acts suggests that the apostles used the Upper Room as a temporary residence (Koine Greek: οὗ ἦσαν καταμένοντες, \"hou ēsan katamenontes\"), although the Jamieson-Fausset-Brown Bible Commentary disagrees, preferring to see the room as a place where they were \"not lodged, but had for their place of rendezvous\".\n\nJerome used the Latin \"coenaculum\" for both Greek words in his Latin Vulgate translation. In Christian tradition, the \"Upper Room\" was not only the site of the Last Supper (i.e. the \"Cenacle\"), but the room in which the Holy Spirit alighted upon the eleven apostles after Easter. It is sometimes thought to be the place where the apostles stayed in Jerusalem and, according to the Catholic Encyclopedia, it was \"the first Christian church\".\n\nThe \"Cenacle\" is considered the site where many other events described in the New Testament took place, such as:\nPilgrims to Jerusalem report visiting a structure on Mount Zion commemorating the Last Supper since the fourth century CE. Some scholars would have it that this was the Cenacle, in fact a synagogue from an earlier time. The anonymous pilgrim from Bordeaux, France reported seeing such a synagogue in 333 CE. A Christian synagogue is mentioned in the apocryphal fourth-century \"Anaphora Pilati\" (\"Report of Pilate\"). But a Jewish origin for the building has come under serious question for which see below. The building has experienced numerous cycles of destruction and reconstruction, culminating in the Gothic structure which stands today.\n\nWhile the term \"Cenacle\" refers only to the Upper Room, the building contains another site of interest. A niche located on the lower level of the same building is associated by tradition with the burial site of King David, marked by a large cenotaph-sarcophagus first reported seen by 12th-century Crusaders but earlier mentioned in the 10th-century \"Vita Constantini\". Most accept the notice in 1 Kings 2:10 that says David was buried \"in the City of David\", identified as the eastern hill of ancient Jerusalem, as opposed to what is today called \"Mount Sion\", which is the western hill of the ancient city. The general location of the \"Cenacle\" is also associated with that of the house where the Virgin Mary lived among the Apostles until her death or \"dormition\", an event celebrated in the nearby \"Church of the Dormition\".\n\nThe early history of the Cenacle site is uncertain; scholars have made attempts at establishing a chronology based on archaeological and artistic evidence as well as historical sources. \n\nBargil Pixner, for example, following the survey conducted by Jacob Pinkerfeld in 1948, believed that the original building was a synagogue later probably used by Jewish Christians. However, no architectural features associated with early synagogues such as columns, benches, or other accoutrements are present in the lower Tomb chamber. According to Epiphanius, bishop of Salamis writing towards the end of the 4th century, the building and its environs were spared during the destruction of Jerusalem under Titus (AD 70). Pixner suggests that the area on Mount Zion was destroyed and that the Cenacle was rebuilt in the later first century. The lowest courses of ashlars (building stones) along the north, east and south walls are attributed by Pinkerfeld to the late Roman period (135-325 CE). Pixner believes rather that they are Herodian-period ashlars, allowing him to date the construction of the building to an earlier period. Many scholars, however, date the walls' earliest construction to the Byzantine period and identify the Cenacle as the remains of a no-longer-extant \"Hagia Sion\" (\"Holy Zion\") basilica. The Roman emperor Theodosius I constructed the five-aisled Hagia Sion basilica likely between 379 and 381 CE. Despite the opinion of those scholars who would characterize the Cenacle as a remainder of Theodosius's basilica, sixth-century artistic representations, such as the mosaics found in Madaba, Jordan (the \"Madaba Map\") and the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome, depict a smaller structure just to the south of basilica. Some have identified this smaller structure as the Cenacle thus demonstrating its independence from, and possible prior existence to, the basilica. The basilica (and the Cenacle?) was later damaged by Persian invaders in 614 AD but restored by the patriarch Modestus. In AD 1009 the church was destroyed by the Muslim caliph Al-Hakim. Shortly afterward it was replaced by the Crusaders with a cathedral named for Saint Mary featuring a central nave and two side aisles. The Cenacle was either repaired or enclosed by the Crusader church, occupying a portion of two aisles on the right (southern) side of the altar. The Crusader cathedral was destroyed soon afterward, in the late 12th or early 13th century, but the Cenacle remained. (Today, part of the site upon which the Byzantine and Crusader churches stood is believed to be occupied by the smaller Church of the Dormition and its associated Abbey.) Syrian Christians maintained the Cenacle until the 1330s when it passed into the custody of the Franciscan Order of Friars who managed the structure until 1524. At that time Ottoman authorities took possession of the Cenacle converting it into a mosque. The Franciscans were completely evicted from their surrounding buildings in 1550. Architectural evidence remains of the period of Muslim control including the elaborate mihrab in the Last Supper room, the Arabic inscriptions on its walls, the qubba over the stairwell, and the minaret and dome atop the roof. Christians were not officially allowed to return until the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. The historical building is currently managed by the State of Israel Ministry of the Interior.\n\nScholars offer wide-ranging dates and builders for the surviving Gothic-style Cenacle. Some believe that it was constructed by Crusaders just before Saladin’s conquest of Jerusalem in 1187, while others attribute it to Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II, after he arrived in the city in 1229. Still others hold that it was not built in this form until the Franciscans acquired the site in the 1330s. Scarce documentation and disturbed structural features offer little strong support for any of these dates.\n\nIn its current state, the Cenacle is divided into six rib-vaulted bays. The bays are supported by three freestanding columns which bilaterally divide the space, as well as six pillars flanking the side walls. While the capital of the westernmost freestanding column is flush with the Cenacle’s interior wall, the column shaft itself is completely independent of the wall, leading scholars to consider the possibility that this wall was not original to the building.\n\nAn analysis of the column and pillar capitals offers clues, but not a solution, to the mystery of the current building’s origin. The Corinthianesque capital between the second and third bays of the Cenacle is stylistically indicative of multiple geographical regions and chronological periods. This capital’s spiky leaves, which tightly adhere to the volume of the column before erupting into scrolls, are in congruence with common outputs of the 12th century sculpture workshop at the Temple site in Jerusalem in the last years before Saladin’s conquest in 1187. The workshop also frequently utilized drilling as an ornamental device. The Jerusalem workshop included artists from diverse regions in the West, who brought stylistic traits with them from their native countries. The workshop produced sculpture for many Crusader projects and other structures, such as the al-Aqsa mosque.\n\nThis comparison allows for the support of the 12th century date of the Cenacle. There are also, however, similar capitals which originated in workshops in southern Italy, a draw for scholars who wish to associate the building with Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II and the Sixth Crusade in 1229. Examples can be seen in the Romanesque cathedral in Bitonto, a small city near Bari, in southern Italy, and on column supports of the pulpit in the Pisa Baptistery, carved by Apulian-born sculptor Nicola Pisano around 1260.\n\nThe capitals of the freestanding columns are not identical. The capital between the first and second bays seems either severely weathered or shallowly carved, and its volume is a marked contrast from the others. It rises from the shaft in a straight cylinder, rather than in an inverted pyramid, and then flares only just before it intersects with the abacus. The third capital, which now flanks the Cenacle’s western wall, is also unique among the three. It is not decorated with a floral motif, rather, scrolling crockets spring from the base of the volume. Enlart has proposed a comparison to buildings constructed by Frederick II in Apulia.\n\nAnalysis of these column capitals does not yield significant evidence to link them to the 14th century and a potential Franciscan construction, nor does it definitively date them to the 12th or 13th century. The building remains a frustrating, but intriguing, mystery.\n\nThe upper room is a focus or reference in several Christian hymns, for example in \"An upper room did our Lord prepare\", written by Fred Pratt Green in 1973, and in \"Come, risen Lord, and deign to be our guest\" ('We meet, as in that upper room they met...'), written by George Wallace Briggs.\n\nSt. Mark’s Monastery in the Old City of Jerusalem near the Armenian Quarter is sometime considered as alternative place for the cenacle. The monastery church, belonging to the Syriac Orthodox Church, contains an early Christian stone inscription testifying to reverence for the spot.\n\n"}
{"id": "45245821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45245821", "title": "Chains (novel)", "text": "Chains (novel)\n\nChains is the first novel in the Seeds of America trilogy, a series of historical novels that follows the story of eleven- year- old Isabel, a Black American slave fighting for her and her younger sister's (Ruth) freedom while the Revolutionary War is occurring. The story sets in New York in the years 1776 to 1777, when slavery was legal and common in the colonies.\n\nThough the novel is fictional, the events in the story are actual events that occurred back then in the colonies. Some examples of these events are the failed plan of George Washington's assassination followed by the hanging of one of the conspirators, the capture of Fort Washington, and the popular pamphlet \"Common Sense\" by Thomas Paine.\n\nThe novel contains 45 chapters with the chapter numbers in Roman Numerals and the dates of the events in the chapter written right under the chapter number. Under the dates, Anderson has put in quotes from important documents at the time such as private letters, newspapers, the Common Sense pamphlet, the Declaration of Independence of the United States, and even spoken opinions from various country leaders. This opening of each chapter gives a perspective of what Isabel might face in the chapter or something relating to the events of the chapter.\n\nIsabel and her younger sister, Ruth were supposed to be released from slavery as promised by their owner, Miss Mary Finch's will when she dies but unfortunately they landed in the hands of Miss Mary's nephew, Robert Finch, who claimed them as his property with the reason that there was no actual will in physical form. He then sold them to a Loyalist couple who brings them to New York away from their previous hometown, Newport, Rhode Island. Isabel, determined to gain her and her sister's liberty, follows the advice of a servant boy named Curzon, who tells her to spy on her master and other Loyalists for any suspicious plans that could be reported back to the Patriots to use against the Loyalists.\n\nProtagonist and narrator of the novel, she is always striving her best to do anything she can to get her and her sister out of slavery and back to Rhode Island, where they belong. Though at a very young age—thirteen-years-old—she has a very tough character and is devoted to anything she does. Her cleverness helps her in her various tasks on spying the Loyalists and planning her escape. She is very nurturing towards her younger sister Ruth, knowing that she is the only person who can truly take care of her. She befriends a slave boy named Curzon who works for a Patriot, to whom she is a good friend he can always trust, which is shown when she desperately tried to deliver leftover food to Curzon, who is in prison; considering she knows the consequences of helping a Patriot when she herself is working for a Loyalist. She also shows a brave spirit when she stands up to Mrs. Lockton and demand the information on the whereabouts of Ruth, who Lockton said she has sold but in truth kept Ruth in hiding away from Isabel to weaken her. This action results in her being branded with \"I\" for \"insolence\" on her right cheek as a punishment for standing up to her master, but towards the end of the novel she sees this mark standing for her name Isabel, and is proud to have everyone know her name. On the night of the Queens Ball she makes her move on her way to freedom, bringing Curzon along with her.\n\nIsabel's five-year-old sister and also a slave. Ruth, who is suffering from epilepsy, often encounters fits from this sickness. She does not talk very often and does what she is told without question, which becomes the more desirable slave to Mrs. Lockton and she would be kept in Mrs. Lockton's chamber for hours to be her personal maid. As a young child, she is sometimes stubborn, for example she asks for her baby doll every night before going to bed even though she knows that Mr. Robert Finch has taken away all their belongings. Her innocent and vulnerable nature makes her very dependent on Isabel.\n\nA Loyalist who is very self-centered and untrustworthy. His commitment to being a Loyalist is shown by his various attempts to get the rebels to join the British side; one of the attempts was to bribe them and hiding the money in his wife's linen chest to discourage suspicion.This attempt, however, was discovered thanks to Isabel's report on her spying tasks. He also had a plan to assassinate President George Washington along with a group of Loyalists; unfortunately, their plan was also discovered by Isabel. At home, he is very abusive towards his wife, and he demands to be obeyed by everybody in the house.\n\nWife of Elihu Lockton, she is also a Loyalist though not as strongly committed as Elihu. Very abusive towards Isabel, both physically and mentally, she does not call her by name and instead calls her Sal; in return demanding Isabel refers to her as Madam. Her harsh and brutal character is shown in her branding Isabel as a punishment for standing up to her and running away afterward. She strongly dislikes Isabel, as opposed to her liking Ruth because she is considered easier to order around. She is very impatient and she always blames Isabel for accidents she encounters, also often picking on the simplest mistakes such as not placing her dog statue in the right position after being dusted. When her husband's aunt falls sick, she hopes that her condition will cause her to die soon. Whenever Lady Seymour's condition improves, Ms. Lockton seems to be saddened.\n\nThe previous owner of Isabel and Ruth before she died and they were sold to the Locktons. She promised Isabel that she and her sister would be free when she dies, as a part of her will. Isabel views her as one of the nicer slaveowners, describing her as being polite to her slaves by saying \"please\" and \"thank you\" when assigning tasks. Along with those acts, She taught Isabel to read and write.\n\nMiss Finch's nephew and only relative. He denies Miss Mary's will by saying that it is verbal and not physically extant thus making it non-legal and claims that the death of Miss Mary would mean Isabel and Ruth belongs to him. He then sells the girls to the Locktons and takes away all of the girls' only belongings, including Ruth's favorite baby doll.\n\nA slave of Mr. Bellingham, a Patriot, he helps Isabel to achieve her wish for freedom by telling her to become a spy on the Locktons and try to find out any personal information that is sensitive to the political being, and report back. While other slaves join the Patriot army to be free from slavery, Curzon says that he is simply a loyal American fighting for the independence of his country; he is even brave enough to risk life imprisoned as long as he is fighting for America's liberty. He is a very good and loyal friend to Isabel, calling her Country, and he is always helping her in her attempts to seek the liberation of her and her sister.\n\nHe is a strong-willed American Patriot who distrusts Elihu Lockton. His suspicious nature is shown towards Elihu, which is shown in the mid-beginning of the book where he demands that Anne Lockton's linen closet shall be inspected as they arrive in the docks of New York. He trusts Curzon though he is a slave, which is considered very odd at the time.\n\nElihu Lockton's aunt, she is very kind to slaves, unlike the rest of the people of the society. She acquaints Isabel and welcomes her dearly, and she always helps Isabel whenever she needs it. When Isabel came to her house to pass the information that Mr. Lockton had been arrested and that Madam is in need of his aunt, she tells Isabel to come in the house and even serves her milk and cookies to nourish herself; something nobody at the time would do to slaves. She also took care of Isabel while in recovery right after getting branded, which in return was paid by Isabel helping her escape from the burning buildings and save her life.\n\nLady Seymour's servant who only speaks Dutch and does not show interests in learning English. She treats Isabel kindly when she was branded with a hot iron with the letter I for insolence.\n\nShe is a maid in the Lockton house, and she often helps Isabel whenever she is having tough times due to Mrs. Lockton's orders and actions. She reminds Isabel to do what Mrs. Lockton says, and she tells Isabel what and what not to do in the Lockton house. Becky also tries her best to get Isabel and Ruth out of situations where they would possibly get punished. She told Isabel about a slave who worked for the Locktons a couple of years earlier who got beaten severely for talking back to Madam, trying to get Isabel to stay cautious in her actions and hold her fists down.\n\nHe is an elder African-American slave who is in charge of the distribution of water from the Tea Water Pump. He seems to know much about the gossip of the war, which is passed around every morning when slaves come to the pump to obtain water for the day. His real name is not revealed, but most slaves refer to him as \"Grandfather\", because he is kind to everyone.\n\nA colonel who works for Mr. Bellingham, he is Isabel's only hope to get her and her sister back to Rhode Islands. He retrieves information and evidence in the form of a list of names of the plan to assassinate General George Washington from Isabel, who secretly spied on Mr. Lockton during one of his meetings. He promised to help Isabel in return for the information, but he, later on, dismisses her when she begged for help when she ran away from Madam.\n\nLeader of the war prisoners of Fort Washington, he asks Isabel to be his messenger and bring messages from other military officers. He treats Isabel kindly and allows her to bring in food for Curzon, who was a prisoner in there. Captain Morse often takes some food from the basket that Isabel brings along.\n\nA military officer who Isabel goes to in the midst of her task of being Captain Morse's personal messenger. He gives a note to Isabel which was demanded by Mrs. Lockton when she discovers that Isabel has been working for the rebels. Isabel surprisingly throws away the note in the hearth so that Mrs. Lockton would not be able to obtain the information in the note.\n\nA pastor that fulfills Isabel's parents funeral. He also helps Isabel with trying to get to a safe place, and where she would be best happy, even though she would still be a slave.\n\nPastor Week's slave who pulled the wagon carrying a pine coffin containing Miss Mary Finch's body at the beginning of the story.\n\nIsabel and Ruth's mother who died when they were young from pox. She was always kind and loved her family. Isabel sneaks her seeds when she gets sold to the Locktons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1581703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581703", "title": "Cheryl Araujo", "text": "Cheryl Araujo\n\nCheryl Ann Araujo (March 28, 1961 December 14, 1986) was an American rape victim whose case became national news. She was gang-raped in 1983 at age 21 by four men in a tavern in New Bedford, Massachusetts, while other patrons watched but did not intervene. During the prosecution, the defendants' attorneys cross-examined Araujo to such an extent about her own life and activities that the case became widely seen as a template for \"blaming the victim\" in rape cases. Her case was widely known as the \"Big Dan's rape,\" after the name of the bar in which the attack occurred. Ostracized in New Bedford, Araujo moved with her family to Miami, Florida, to make a new life. She died a few years later in a drunk driving car accident.\n\nHer case prompted national debate at the time over broadcasting of the trial, in which her name was released. Some states have passed legislation to protect the names of rape victims, and court cases have attempted to settle issues of newsworthiness, freedom of the press, and state interest, as well as personal privacy. Her case was the basis of the 1988 film \"The Accused\".\n\nOn March 6, 1983, after putting her two daughters to sleep following a third birthday party for the older girl, Araujo left her home in New Bedford, Massachusetts, to buy cigarettes. The store she usually purchased from was closed, so she stopped at Big Dan's tavern. Two men approached and asked her to leave with them. When she refused, a third man grabbed her from behind and threw her onto the bar's pool table. She was stripped below the waist, and several men raped her. According to Araujo's original report to police, she heard people \"laughing, cheering, yelling\", but no one responded to her cries for help. As Araujo seemingly admitted later, there was no crowd cheering on the rape. Eventually, Araujo fought off her attackers and ran half-naked into the street, screaming that she had been raped. Three college students passing by in a van came upon Araujo in the street and drove her to the nearest hospital.\n\nSix men were originally charged with the rape, though only four, Victor Raposo, John Cordeiro, Joseph Vieira and Daniel Silva, were eventually tried. Two separate trials were conducted to avoid the men testifying against each other during trial. The trials attracted international attention, and people in the Portuguese community felt the case was a catalyst for stirring anti-Portuguese discrimination and sentiment.\n\nIn addition, the press coverage and trial cast new light on how victims are treated in rape cases. Defense attorneys questioned the victim about her personal life, suggesting she had invited or somehow deserved the attack. During live TV coverage of the trial in the US, the victim's name was broadcast. After allowing TV coverage, the courts had the right to prevent disclosure of the woman's name but did not. The courts later admonished the press for releasing her name.\n\nThe three college students who drove Araujo to the hospital testified as to her state of terror when they encountered her. The four defendants were convicted of aggravated rape; charges against two additional men were dropped. The most any of the men served was 6½ years.\n\nThis case added to the debate of whether rape victims had a right to privacy because of the nature of the crime. The prosecutor said that he believed victims should be protected by having trials be closed, in order to protect their privacy. He felt the publicity might discourage rape victims from trying to get justice. There was considerable controversy at the time over broadcasting the rape trial. The broadcasts received wide ratings. As one study later noted, \"Publication of a rape victim's name severely invades the personal privacy interests of the victim and exposes the victim to a variety of social and psychological problems.\"\n\nThere was national debate about the issue of releasing the victim's name, and United States Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania held subcommittee hearings on the issue of televised trials after the conclusion of this case. Supporters of broadcasting criminal trials felt that newscasters should have used their editing capacity to delete Araujo's name. As noted by Peter Kaplan, Specter said, \"Some hard thinking has to be done in protecting the rights of witnesses and defendants.\" He added, \"If this could be achieved, it would be highly desirable to televise rape cases, child-abuse cases and other crimes.\" Other supporters also believed that it was important to show the judicial process.\n\nOther concerns about media coverage of this case related to the press' repetition of the first police report, without adequate attribution. They published Araujo's initial account of a crowd cheering in the bar. It was found that there were fewer men in the tavern than she claimed; during the trial, she said the attack resulted in her being distraught and distorting the number. But the dramatic first account had staying power; it was repeated even after more factually accurate accounts were published and broadcast.\n\nAraujo was essentially ostracized in New Bedford. Shortly after the trial, she moved to Miami, Florida, along with her two daughters and their father Araujo's high school sweetheart to find anonymity. Araujo had entered school to become a secretary, was making a life for herself, and had found some measure of happiness.\n\nOn December 14, 1986, she lost control of her car while taking her daughters to a Christmas show and struck a utility pole. The girls were injured, but survived. Araujo died in the crash. She was 25 years old. At the time of the crash her blood alcohol level was .29, above the legal limit of .10. According to a United Press International article published December 24, 1986, \"The woman who was gang-raped in a New Bedford, Mass., bar two years ago was driving while 'falling-down drunk' when she was killed in an automobile accident here, a Dade County medical examiner said on Tuesday.\"\n\nThe feature film drama, \"The Accused\" (1988), was loosely based on this case. It starred Jodie Foster as the woman attacked and Kelly McGillis as an assistant district attorney prosecuting the case. In press coverage related to the film, McGillis acknowledged that she had survived an assault and rape herself. She discussed her long struggle to get over the attack, and wanted to talk about it to help other victims.\nFoster won the Academy Award for Best Actress.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "166829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166829", "title": "Choking", "text": "Choking\n\nChoking (also known as foreign body airway obstruction) is a life-threatening medical emergency characterized by the blockage of air passage into the lungs secondary to the inhalation or ingestion of food or another object.\nChoking is caused by a mechanical obstruction of the airway that prevents normal breathing. This obstruction can be partial (allowing some air passage into the lungs) or complete (no air passage into the lungs). The disruption of normal breathing by choking deprives oxygen delivery to the body, resulting in asphyxia. Although oxygen stored in the blood and lungs can keep a person alive for several minutes after breathing stops, this sequence of events is potentially fatal. Choking was the fourth most common cause of unintentional injury-related death in the US in 2011.\n\nAccording to the National Safety Council (NSC), deaths from choking most often occur in the very young (children under 1 years old) and in the elderly (adults over 75 years). Obstruction of the airway can occur at the level of the pharynx or the trachea. Foods that can adapt their shape to that of the pharynx (such as bananas, marshmallows, or gelatinous candies) can be a danger not just for children but for persons of any age.\n\nChoking is one type of airway obstruction, which includes any blockage of the air-conducting passages, including blockage due to tumors, swelling of the airway tissues, and compression of the laryngopharynx, larynx or vertebrate trachea in strangulation.\n\n\nChoking is caused by an object from outside the body, also called a foreign body, blocking the airway. The object can block the upper or lower airway passages. The airway obstruction is usually partial but can also be complete.\n\nAmong children, the most common causes of choking are food, coins, toys, and balloons. In one study, peanuts were the most common object found in the airway of children evaluated for suspected foreign body aspiration. Foods that pose a high risk of choking include hot dogs, hard candy, nuts, seeds, whole grapes, raw carrots, apples, popcorn, peanut butter, marshmallows, chewing gum, and sausages. The most common cause of choking death in children is latex balloons. Small, round non-food objects such as balls, marbles, toys, and toy parts are also associated with a high risk of choking death because of their potential to completely block a child's airway.\n\nChildren younger than age three are especially at risk of choking because they explore the environment by putting objects in their mouth. Also, young children are still developing the ability to chew food completely. Molar teeth, which come in around 1.5 years of age, are necessary for grinding food. Even after molar teeth are present, children continue developing the ability to chew food completely and swallow throughout early childhood. In addition, a child's airway is smaller in diameter than an adult's airway, which means that smaller objects can cause an airway obstruction in children. Infants and young children generate a less forceful cough than adults, so coughing may not be as effective in relieving an airway obstruction. Finally, children with neuromuscular disorders, developmental delay, traumatic brain injury, and other conditions that affect swallowing are at an increased risk of choking.\n\nIn adults, choking often involves food blocking the airway. Risk factors include using alcohol or sedatives, undergoing a procedure involving the oral cavity or pharynx, wearing oral appliances, or having a medical condition that causes difficulty swallowing or impairs the cough reflex. Conditions that can cause difficulty swallowing and/or impaired coughing include neurologic conditions such as strokes, Alzheimer disease, or Parkinson disease. In older adults, risk factors also include living alone, wearing dentures, and having difficulty swallowing.\n\nChildren and adults with neurologic, cognitive, or psychiatric disorders may experience a delay in diagnosis because there may not be a known history of a foreign body entering the airway.\n\nProviders such as pediatricians and dentists can provide information to parents and caregivers about what food and toys are appropriate by age to prevent choking. The American Academy of Pediatricians recommends waiting until 6 months of age before introducing solid foods to infants. Caregivers can supervise children while eating or playing. Also, caregivers can avoid giving children younger than 5 foods that pose a high risk of choking such as hot dog pieces, cheese sticks, cheese chunks, hard candy, nuts, grapes, marshmallows, or popcorn. Parents, teachers, child care providers, and other caregivers for children get training in choking first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).\n\nIn the US, manufacturers of children's toys and products must follow requirements to prevent choking and include appropriate warning labels. However, toys that are resold may not be marked with warning labels. Caregivers can try to prevent choking by considering the features of a toy (such as size, shape, consistency, small parts) before giving it to a child. Children's products that are found to pose a choking risk can be recalled.\n\nChoking is treated with a number of different procedures, with both basic techniques available for first aiders and more advanced techniques available for health professionals.\n\nBasic treatment of choking includes a number of non-invasive techniques to help remove foreign bodies from the airways. Most modern protocols, including those of the American Heart Association and the American Red Cross, recommend several stages, designed to apply increasingly more pressure. For the conscious choking victim, most protocols recommend encouraging the victim to cough, followed by hard back slaps and if none of these things work; abdominal thrusts (\"Heimlich maneuver\") or chest thrusts. Once the choking victims loses consciousness, initiating CPR is recommended.\n\nIf the choking individual is conscious and coughing, the American Red Cross recommends encouraging the individual to continue coughing. The American Red Cross recommends that if the person choking is unable to cough or if coughing is not effective, to move onto other methods, detailed below.\n\nThe Mayo Clinic recommends the use of back blows to aid in the rescue of choking victims. Back blows are performed by leaning the choking victim forward, then delivering blows with the heel of the hand onto the victim's back, in between their shoulder blades.\nIf back blows are performed, they must be performed with the head lower than the chest (i.e., bend the person over when you slap them hard between the shoulder blades with the heel of the palm); otherwise, the blow may drive the object deeper into the person's throat.\n\nAbdominal thrusts are performed with the rescuer standing behind the person choking and exerting inward and upward pressure with their hands on the choking person's abdomen. This method of dislodging an airway obstruction was discovered by Dr. Henry Heimlich in 1974 and, when used alone (without back blows) to assist a choking victim, is referred to as \"The Heimlich Maneuver.\" The purpose of abdominal thrusts is to create pressure that will expel any object lodged in the airway upwards to relive the obstruction. The Heimlich Maneuver specifically excludes back blows; its inventor, Dr. Henry Heimlich, believed that back blows were likely to cause an airway obstruction to become more deeply lodged in the victim's airway. So, while abdominal thrusts are part of other choking victim protocols, the Heimlich Maneuver uses only abdominal thrusts to attempt to dislodge airway obstructions.\n\nThe American Red Cross recommends a strategy of alternating five back blows and five abdominal thrusts for conscious choking victims until the object blocking the airway is dislodged. Chest thrusts are advised for pregnant or obese victims. If the person choking becomes unconscious, basic CPR is recommended. Although the Red Cross does not specifically refer to its choking victim protocol as the \"Five and Five Technique,\" it is important to recognize that the Red Cross protocol differs from the Heimlich Maneuver since it includes administering back blows to the victim, contrary to Dr. Heimlich's procedure which specifically omits back blows.\n\nIf the choking victim becomes unconscious, the American Medical Association advocates sweeping the fingers across the back of the throat to attempt to dislodge airway obstructions, However, many modern protocols recommend against the use of the finger sweep. Red Cross procedures specifically direct rescuers not to perform a finger sweep unless an object can be clearly seen in the victim's mouth due to the risk of driving the obstruction deeper into the victim's airway. Other protocols suggest that if the patient is conscious they will be able to remove the foreign object themselves, or if they are unconscious, the rescuer should simply place them in the recovery position as this allows (to a certain extent) the drainage of fluids out of the mouth instead of down the trachea due to gravity. There is also a risk of causing further damage (for instance inducing vomiting) by using a finger sweep technique. There are no studies that have examined the usefulness of the finger sweep technique when there is no visible object in the airway. Recommendations for the use of the finger sweep have been based on anecdotal evidence.\n\nThe Heimlich Maneuver (abdominal thrusts) can be performed or can be self-administered. Self-administration of this maneuver requires positioning of one's own abdomen over a chair, railing, or countertop and driving the abdomen upon the object with sharp, upward thrust. This serves as a substitute for thrusts made with the hands by another person. One study showed that these self-administered abdominal thrusts were just as effective as those performed by another person, although obese individuals were not included in the study. Self-assist choking devices are another self-treatment option. This device is used to produce the inward and upward force of traditional abdominal thrusts. \nMultiple sources of evidence suggest, that one of promising approaches for self treatment during choking could be by applying the head-down (inversed) position.\n\nFor children less than 1 year, the American Heart Association recommends performing cycles of 5 back blows (or slaps) followed by 5 chest compressions. These cycles of 5 back blows then 5 chest compressions are repeated until the object comes out of the infant's airway or until the infant becomes unresponsive. If the infant becomes unresponsive, the American Heart Association recommends starting CPR. The reason that abdominal thrusts are not recommended in children less than 1 year is because they can cause liver damage.\n\nThe American Heart Association recommends chest thrusts rather than abdominal thrusts for pregnant or obese persons who are choking.\nChest thrusts are performed in a similar to the abdominal thrusts, but with a change in hand placement of the rescuer. The hands are placed on the lower part of the choking victim's chest, at the base of the breastbone or sternum, rather than over the middle of the abdomen, as in traditional abdominal thrusts. Strong inward thrusts are then applied.\n\nThere are many advanced medical treatments to relieve choking or airway obstruction. These include inspection of the airway with a laryngoscope or bronchoscope and removal of the object under direct vision. Severe cases where there is an inability to remove the object may require cricothyrotomy (emergency tracheostomy). Cricothyrotomy involves making an incision in a patient's neck and inserting a tube into the trachea in order to bypass the upper airways. The procedure is usually only performed when other methods have failed. In many cases, an emergency tracheostomy can save a patient's life, but if performed incorrectly, it may end the patient’s life.\n\nChoking is the fourth most common cause of unintentional injury-related death in the US. Many episodes are not reported because they are brief and resolve without seeking medical attention. Among reported events, the majority of episodes (80%) occur among children younger than age 15, with fewer episodes (20%) among age 15 and older. The death rate from choking is low at most ages but increases starting around age 74. Choking due to a foreign object resulted in 162,000 deaths (2.5 per 100,000) in 2013, compared to 140,000 deaths (2.9 per 100,000) in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "3180099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3180099", "title": "Clip joint", "text": "Clip joint\n\nA clip joint or fleshpot is an establishment, usually a strip club or night club (often claiming to offer adult entertainment or bottle service) in which customers are tricked into paying excessive amounts of money, for surprisingly low-grade goods or services—or sometimes, nothing—in return. Typically, clip joints suggest the possibility of sex, charge inflated prices for watered-down alcoholic drinks, and then throw out customers when they become unwilling or unable to spend more money. The products and services offered may be illegal, allowing the establishment to maintain such activities with little fear of punishment from law enforcement, since its victims cannot report the venue without admitting that they broke the law. Even in situations where no law was broken, victims may be too embarrassed to seek legal recourse.\n\nIn the United States, clip joints were widespread during the national Prohibition of alcohol from 1920 to 1933, and the practice later became outlawed. For instance, the New York State Liquor Authority imposes penalties against any licensed premises permitting such conduct. Clip joints still operate openly in some areas of the world, such as Shanghai and Las Vegas, where they prey on visiting tourists.\n\nA typical scenario involves a young adult male (typically a tourist) being approached by a beautiful woman (typically either a local or claiming to be) who recommends a \"favorite local\" bar or club. The man is usually seated at a table and joined by a \"hostess\", who may or may not order drinks. Whether or not any \"services\" are performed or drinks are ordered has little bearing on the outlandish bill received at the end of the night. Bills are commonly hundreds of - if not over a thousand - dollars, listing items like a \"hostess fee\" or \"service charge\" that were not originally mentioned to the customer. The arrival of the bill typically corresponds with the arrival of a few large bouncers to ensure payment, sometimes leading the victim to an ATM to retrieve the money.\n\nThe beautiful woman or women who originally lured the mark to the location often makes an excuse and leaves prior to the arrival of the bill. If confronted, the establishment claims that they have no connection with the woman and indicates that she arrived with the man, and as such the man is responsible for all of the items on the bill.\n\nOften, a clip joint employee waits near a legitimate club, and invites passing pedestrians into a VIP area. The potential customers are led to believe that the person works for the nearby club, though they may not explicitly say so. Once inside, drinks are usually alcohol free (as the venues usually do not have a license) or watered down and overpriced with no prices listed on the menu. As is typical, unrequested companions may also arrive at the table.\n\nThis scam is in a legal gray area if extortion is not explicitly involved, since there is no law against charging high prices and the customer is primarily responsible for determining the prices of services to be rendered before accepting them.\n\nA number of clip joints (or \"near beer bars\") still operate in London's Soho area, alongside legitimate strip bars. Since 2007, the London Local Authorities Act reclassified clip joints as sex establishments, meaning that they required relevant licences, closing a loophole where these businesses did not need a licence to operate because they did not serve food or alcohol or provide entertainment.\n\nIn 2009, two people were jailed for 36 and 14 months respectively after threatening an undercover police officer in a Soho clip joint. \n\n\"Bottakuri\" or rip-off clubs have been a small but persistent problem in Japan, especially Tokyo’s Kabukicho district. The complaints had surged tenfold in 2015 and police have begun crack-downs. In a mid-2015 sweep by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police, six hostess clubs were found to have charged as much as 2.6 Million yen (~$26000 USD) for one evening's visit by nine male customers.\n\nThe Manhattan bottle service club Arena was sued in 2007 for their version of the clip joint scam. In December 2007, a patron knowingly purchased a $350 bottle of vodka, but was not told of a three bottle minimum. At the end of the night, he was presented with a $1050 tab that included two unordered bottles. When he refused to pay, the Arena bouncers beat him up. The patron agreed to get money from an ATM, but after the bouncers escorted him two blocks to a machine, his debit card was declined. The bouncers then dragged him back to the bar, where he was held until police arrived. He was arrested for theft of services but the charges were dismissed, and he later sued the club for $2 million.\n\nThe film \"Marked Woman\", starring Bette Davis and Humphrey Bogart, portrays a clip joint. Other films featuring clip joints include \"Manpower\", \"Lullaby of Broadway\" and \"The Asphalt Jungle\".\n\n\"The Fabulous Clipjoint\" is the first novel by science fiction and mystery writer Fredric Brown.\n\nIn the video game \"Cuphead\", one of the earlier boss battles takes place in a clip joint. The title of the stage is \"Clip Joint Calamity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3579748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3579748", "title": "Clouseau in 't lang", "text": "Clouseau in 't lang\n\nClouseau in 't lang is the name of the concert given by the Flemish band Clouseau in 2005 at the Antwerp Sportpaleis Merksem. The name was inspired by the 6 meter wide, 40 meter long catwalk in the concert hall from which the band played. This unusual arrangement made it possible for the entire hall to see the band more or less equally.\n\nVideo of the concert was made available on a DVD with the same name in February 2006.\n"}
{"id": "49613832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49613832", "title": "Crazy8s", "text": "Crazy8s\n\nCrazy8s is a filmmaking competition and festival held annually in Vancouver, BC, Canada. It provides funding and support to local filmmakers to shoot and edit a short film in eight days.\n\nNotable past participants include Kaare Andrews, Samm Barnes, Carl Bessai, James Dunnison, Mackenzie Gray, Matthew Kowalchuk, CJ Wallis, Zach Lipovsky, Elan Mastai, Camille Mitchell, Nimisha Mukerji, Graham Wardle and Kyra Zagorsky. It has been called one of the best platforms for emerging filmmakers in Vancouver.\n\nCrazy8s was founded in 1999 by Andrew Williamson. Teams of filmmakers pitch their concepts to industry professionals. After fine-tuning their concepts and delivering revised scripts, 6 winners are chosen to receive $1,000 and a production package and have three days to shoot followed by five days of post-production. Most of the approximately 2,000 people involved are industry professionals.\n\nDylan Akio Smith's \"Man. Feel. Pain.\" won Best Canadian Short Film at the 2004 Toronto International Film Festival. Zach Lipovsky's \"Crazy Late\" is credited with helping earn him a spot on the reality show \"On the Lot\". \"Earthlickers\" and \"Bed Bugs: A Musical Love Story\" later screened at the 2014 Whistler Film Festival.\n\nJoel Ashton McCarthy's \"I Love You So Much It's Killing Them\" won Best Short Film at Bruce Campbell's third annual GroovyFest.\n\nThe finished films are screened at a Gala Screening followed by an afterparty. The 2010 gala was held March 27 at the Vogue Theatre. The 2014 competition attracted 154 applicants. The 2015 gala screening was held February 28 at The Centre For Performing Arts and had 196 applicants. It was hosted by Diana Bang, attracted 1,700 people and featured the band No Sinner at the afterparty. The 2016 gala screening was held February 27 at The Centre For Performing Arts and was hosted by Ellie Harvie. The 2017 competition attracted 216 teams and will screen the final six films February 25 at The Centre For Performing Arts with an official afterparty at Science World.\n\n"}
{"id": "1632458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632458", "title": "Death and the King's Horseman", "text": "Death and the King's Horseman\n\nDeath and the King's Horseman is a play by Wole Soyinka based on a real incident that took place in Nigeria during British colonial rule: the horseman of a Yoruba King was prevented from committing ritual suicide by the colonial authorities. In addition to the British intervention, Soyinka calls the horseman's own conviction toward suicide into question, posing a problem that throws off the community's balance.\n\nSoyinka wrote the play in Cambridge, where he was a fellow at Churchill College during his political exile from Nigeria. He has also written a preface to the play, explaining what he sees as the greatest misconceptions in understanding it. In particular, he says that the play should not be considered as \"clash of cultures.\" Rather, the play demonstrates the need for interaction between African and European cultures, as per Soyinka's post-Biafran cultural philosophy.\n\n\"Death and the King's Horseman\" builds upon the true story which Soyinka based the play off of, to focus on the character of Elesin, the King's Horseman of the title. According to Yoruba tradition, the death of the king must be followed by the ritual death of the king's horseman as well as the king's dog and horse, because the horseman's spirit is essential to helping the chief's spirit ascend to the afterlife. Otherwise, the king's spirit will wander the earth and bring harm to the Yoruba people. The first half of the play documents the process of this ritual, with the potent, life-loving figure Elesin living out his final day in celebration before the ritual process begins. At the last minute, the local British colonial ruler, Simon Pilkings, intervenes, the suicide being viewed as barbaric and illegal by the British authorities.\n\nIn the play, the result for the community is catastrophic, as the breaking of the ritual means the disruption of the cosmic order of the universe and thus the well-being and future of the collectivity is in doubt. The community blames Elesin as much as Pilkings, accusing him of being too attached to the earth to fulfill his spiritual obligations. Events lead to tragedy when Elesin's son, Olunde, who has returned to Nigeria from studying medicine in Europe, takes on the responsibility of his father and commits ritual suicide in his place so as to restore the honour of his family and the order of the universe. Consequently, Elesin kills himself, condemning his soul to a degraded existence in the next world. In addition, the dialogue of the native suggests that this may have been insufficient and that the world is now \"adrift in the void\".\n\nAnother Nigerian playwright, Duro Ladipo, had already written a play in the Yoruba language based on this incident, called \"Oba waja\" (\"The King is Dead\").\n\n\nAlmost every character in \"Death and the King's Horseman\" at some point uses a traditional Yoruba proverb. Through his vast knowledge of Yoruba proverbs, Soyinka is able to endow his play with a strong Yoruba sentiment.\n\nCharacters often employ Yoruba proverbs primarily as a means of bolstering their opinions and persuading others to take their point of view.\n\nThe Praise-singer gets annoyed with \"Elesin\" for his decision to take a new wife and tries to dissuade him:\n\nSimilarly, \"Iyaloja\" tries to admonish \"Elesin\" against his earthly attachments and stay true to the ritual upon which the good of his society depended:\n\nAnother common way in which Soyinka uses proverbs is with \"Elesin\". \"Elesin\" himself uses several proverbs in order to convince his peers that he is going to comply with their ritual and thus join the ancestors in \"orun\":\n\nThe final way in which proverbs appear in the play is when \"Iyaloja\" and the Praise-singer harass \"Elesin\" while he is imprisoned for failing to complete his role within the ritual:\n\nWritten in five scenes, it is performed without interruption. Soyinka himself has directed important American productions, in Chicago in 1976 and at Lincoln Center in New York in 1987, but according to Andrew Gumbel, the play \"has been much more widely admired than performed\".\n\nThe British premiere was directed by Phyllida Lloyd at the Royal Exchange Theatre in Manchester in 1990. It starred George Harris and Claire Benedict.\n\nThe play was performed at London's Royal National Theatre beginning in April 2009, directed by Rufus Norris, with choreography by Javier de Frutos and starring Lucian Msamati. The play was also staged by the St. Louis Black Repertory Theater February 2008, directed by Olusegun Ojewuyi, who has been dramaturge for the Oregon Shakespeare's production. It was performed at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival from February 14 to July 5, 2009 as well. A Yoruba translation Iku Olokun Esin was also performed at the National Theater, Lagos Nigeria, directed by Olusegun Ojewuyi (thus making him the first and only director to have staged the play in both English and in Yoruba – the language and culture of the play.\n\nIn 1988 the play was produced by the Addison Center Theatre in Dallas, Texas, under the direction of Clinton Turner Davis. Davis had previously served as stage manager for the Lincoln Center production.\n\nRussian: by Andrey Kistyakovsky, 1987\n\n"}
{"id": "21119570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21119570", "title": "Dnepropetrovsk maniacs", "text": "Dnepropetrovsk maniacs\n\nThe Dnepropetrovsk maniacs (, ) are Ukrainian serial killers responsible for a string of murders in Dnipropetrovsk in June and July 2007. The case gained additional notoriety because the killers made video recordings of some of the murders, with one of the videos leaking to the Internet. Two 19‑year-old locals, Viktor Sayenko (, ), born 1 March 1988, and Igor Suprunyuk (, ), born 20 April 1988, were arrested and charged with 21 murders.\n\nA third conspirator, Alexander Hanzha (, ), born February 1988, was charged with two armed robberies that took place before the murder spree. On 11 February 2009, all three defendants were found guilty. Sayenko and Suprunyuk were sentenced to life imprisonment, while Hanzha received nine years in prison. The lawyers for Sayenko and Suprunyuk launched an appeal, which was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine in November 2009.\n\nThe first two murders occurred late on 25 June 2007. The first victim was a 33-year-old woman, Yekaterina Ilchenko, who was walking home after having tea at her friend's apartment. According to Sayenko's confession, he and Suprunyuk were \"out for a walk.\" Suprunyuk had a hammer. As Ilchenko walked past, Suprunyuk \"spun around\" and struck her in the side of the head. Ilchenko's body was found by her mother at 5 AM. Within an hour of the first murder, the two men attacked their next victim, Roman Tatarevich, as he slept on a bench near the first murder scene. Tatarevich's head was smashed with blunt objects numerous times, rendering him unrecognizable. The bench was located across the street from the local public prosecutor's office.\n\nOn 1 July, two more victims, Yevgenia Grischenko and Nikolai Serchuk, were found murdered in the nearby town of Novomoskovsk. On the night of 6 July, three more people were murdered in Dnipropetrovsk. The first was Egor Nechvoloda, a recently discharged army recruit, who was bludgeoned while walking home from a nightclub. His mother found the body in the morning by their apartment building on Bohdan Khmelnytsky Street. Yelena Shram, a 28‑year-old night guard, was then murdered around the corner on Kosiora Street. According to Sayenko's taped confession, as Shram walked towards them, Suprunyuk struck her with the hammer he had been hiding under his shirt and struck her several more times after she fell down. She had been carrying a bag filled with clothes. The men picked up the bag, used the clothes to clean the hammer, and threw the bag out. Later the same night, the men murdered a woman named Valentina Hanzha (no apparent relation to co-defendant Alexander Hanzha), a mother of three with a disabled husband.\n\nThe next day, 7 July, two 14‑year-old boys from Podgorodnoye, a nearby town, were attacked as they went fishing. One of the two friends, Andrei Sidyuk, was killed, but the other, Vadim Lyakhov, managed to escape after hiding in the woods. Later, on 12 July, 48‑year-old Sergei Yatzenko, disabled by a recent bout with cancer, went missing while riding his Dnepr motorcycle. His battered body was found four days later, with signs of a savage attack visible even after four days in the summer heat. Several days later, on 14 July, 45‑year-old Natalia Mamarchuk was riding her scooter in the nearby village of Diyovka. As she was passing through a wooded area, two men approached her and knocked her down. They then bludgeoned her to death with a hammer or pipe and drove off on her scooter. Local witnesses gave chase but lost sight of the attackers.\n\nTwelve more murders followed, often with multiple bodies found on the same day. In addition to the earlier sprees, two victims were found each day from 14 July to 16. Victims were seemingly selected at random. Many were vulnerable to attack, including children, elderly, vagrants, or people under the influence of alcohol. Most victims were killed using blunt objects, including hammers and steel construction bars. Blows were often directed at their faces, leaving them unrecognizable. Many victims were also mutilated and tortured; some victims had their eyes gouged out while they were still alive. One pregnant woman had her fetus cut from her womb. No sexual assaults on any victim were reported. Some victims were also robbed of their cell phones and other valuables, their possessions pawned to second-hand shops in the area. However, most victims had their possessions intact. The murders covered a large geographical area. Aside from Dnepropetrovsk, many occurred in outlying areas of the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast.\n\nNo official link between the murders was made until the 7 July attack on two boys in Podgorodnoye. Vadim Lyakhov, the survivor, was initially placed under arrest, suspected of murdering his friend. He was reportedly denied access to counsel and beaten by police during questioning. However, it quickly became clear that he was not responsible for his friend's death, given that the murder was connected with the developing murder spree. Lyakhov cooperated with the investigators to create sketches of the attackers. Two local children who had also witnessed the 14 July Mamarchuk attack, hidden in a tent just a few feet away, also provided a detailed description corroborating the one given by Lyakhov.\n\nA task force was quickly set up from Kiev, headed by lead criminal investigator Vasily Paskalov. The manhunt soon grew to encompass most local law enforcement, and reportedly over 2,000 investigators worked on the case. The investigation was initially kept secret. No official information about the murders was released, and local people were not warned about possible attacks or provided with descriptions of the suspects. However, rumors of the attacks kept most of the local population home at night. Eventually, investigators selectively distributed sketches and lists of stolen property to local pawn shops, and soon, stolen property began to be identified in the pawn shops of the city's Leninskiy district.\n\nThe three suspects Viktor Sayenko, Igor Suprunyuk, and Alexander Hanzha were arrested on 23 July 2007. Suprunyuk attempted to sell a mobile phone stolen from a victim in a local pawn shop, asking for 150 hryvnia (around 30 USD in 2007). Law enforcement agents tracked the phone's location once the shop's owner turned it on to check its functionality. Sayenko and Suprunyuk were arrested near the cash register of the shop. Hanzha was arrested at home, reportedly managing to flush other stolen mobile phones and jewelry down the toilet. The items were recovered, but all information on the phones was lost.\n\nThe three suspects had attended school together, and by age 14 found some common ground. \"Me and Igor [Suprunyuk] were both afraid of heights, and we were afraid we'd be beaten up by bullies\", Sayenko stated during questioning. Suprunyuk sought advice on getting rid of their fears, which led the boys to stand on a balcony of their 14th floor apartment for hours, hanging over the railing. This reportedly had a positive effect on their fear of heights. Hanzha was reportedly the most squeamish of the three. He had blood phobia, and even refused to bathe his kitten, afraid he might scald it. Suprunyuk suggested tackling the fears by torturing stray dogs. The boys captured dogs in a wooded area near their house, hanged them from trees, disemboweled them, and took pictures next to the corpses. Prosecution evidence included many of these photos taken by the suspects while underage. Some photos show the boys drawing swastikas and other symbols with animal blood, and giving the Nazi salute. In one photo, Suprunyuk poses sporting a toothbrush moustache, similar to Adolf Hitler's moustache. Suprunyuk was born on April 20, the same day as Hitler, and referred to this fact. A long video showing the three torturing a white kitten was shown in court. It takes place in their garage. The suspects fashioned a cross from wooden boards and nailed the kitten to it, then shot at it with pistols, placing foam and glue in its mouth to muffle the kitten's noises.\n\nWhen the boys were 17, Suprunyuk beat up a local boy and stole his bike, which he then sold to Sayenko. Both were arrested, but did not go to jail due to their age. After high school, Hanzha drifted between odd jobs, which included a pastry chef and a construction worker. At his arrest he had been unemployed for some time. Sayenko went to a metallurgy institute part-time and worked as a security guard. Suprunyuk remained officially unemployed, but made a living driving his green Daewoo Lanos as an unlicensed taxi. The car was reportedly a birthday gift from his parents.\n\nSome months before the murder spree, Suprunyuk — with the help of Sayenko and Hanzha — began picking up passengers and robbing them. A green Daewoo with a taxicab's checkerboard marking was often described as the vehicle used in the murders. According to the suspects' confessions, some murder victims were picked up as passengers in the cab. Hanzha reportedly participated in one where two men were robbed, and then declined to take part in any further attacks.\n\nLocal media reported the suspects had wealthy influential parents with ties to local law enforcement. Vladimir Suprunyuk, Suprunyuk's father, in his interview to \"Segodnya\" stated that he had been employed at Yuzhmash as a test pilot, often flying with Leonid Kuchma, the future president of Ukraine, and continuing to serve as his personal pilot on domestic flights after Kuchma's rise to power. Local authorities, including deputy interior minister Nikolay Kupyanskiy, initially referred to the supposed influence of the suspects' families, but later denied the assessment, claiming that all three suspects came from poor families. However, Sayenko was represented in court by his father, Igor Sayenko, a lawyer.\n\nThe three men were charged with involvement in 29 separate incidents, including 21 murders and eight more attacks where victims survived. Suprunyuk was charged with 27 of the cases, including 21 counts of capital murder, eight armed robberies, and one count of animal cruelty. Sayenko was charged with 25 instances, including 18 murders, five robberies and one count of animal cruelty. Hanzha was charged with two counts of armed robbery stemming from a 1 March 2007 incident in Dniprodzerzhynsk.\n\nAll three confessed quickly, although Suprunyuk later withdrew his confession. Their trial began in June 2008. Suprunyuk pleaded not guilty, while the other two suspects pleaded guilty to all charges. Viktor Chevguz, Suprunyuk's original defense lawyer, left the case after reportedly being disappointed that his client's plea of insanity was not accepted. Lawyers for the victims' families argued that the level of care taken by the killers during their crime spree meant that they were fully aware of their actions.\n\nProsecution evidence included bloodstains on the suspects' clothing and video recordings of the murders. The defense denied that the people in the videos were the suspects, claiming serious problems with the investigation, including at least 10 more murders covered up by the prosecution, supposed cover-ups of additional arrests of people with powerful connections who were released without being charged, even naming some of the additional people supposedly involved with the murders. The case was heard by a panel of judges chaired by judge Ivan Senchenko. The prosecution asked for life imprisonment for Sayenko and Suprunyuk, and 15 years of hard labor for Hanzha. Ukraine has no capital punishment since February 2000 after the Constitutional Court ruled the death penalty unconstitutional in December 1999.\n\nThe prosecution did not establish a motive behind the killings. Local media reported the killers had a plan to get rich from the murder videos they recorded. One suspect's girlfriend reported that they planned to make forty separate videos of murders. This was corroborated by a former classmate who claimed he often heard Suprunyuk was in contact with an unknown \"rich foreign website operator\" who ordered forty snuff videos, and would pay lots of money once they were made. Regional security chief Ivan Stupak rejected the claim that the murders were committed to make internet snuff videos, saying that there was no evidence of this. Detective Bogdan Vlasenko stated: \"We think they were doing it as a hobby, to have a collection of memories when they get old.\" Deputy interior minister Nikolay Kupyanskiy commented \"For these young men, murder was like entertainment or hunting.\" At the trial, it emerged that Suprunyuk collected newspaper cuttings about the case. Some photographs of the crimes had captions added, including: \"The weak must die. The strongest will conquer.\"\n\nThe legal team defending the suspects consisted of three lawyers, one for each suspect. All three lawyers were originally court-appointed, but after the initial hearings Sayenko requested to be represented by his father, because his appointed lawyer apparently graduated from law school only two months earlier. The request was granted, which significantly delayed the proceedings as Sayenko's father familiarized himself with the evidence. Igor Sayenko became the most prominent figure on the defense, giving numerous interviews and taking a lead role in court proceedings.\n\nHanzha's attorneys based their defense on the fact that he never participated in the murder spree, and was involved only with a single incident four months before it began, in which two men were robbed in the nearby town of Dniprodzerzhynsk. Hanzha admitted his guilt, hoping for leniency in sentencing.\nThe defense strategy for the other two suspects was to attack the prosecution on a wide front. Multiple investigators were called to the stand, including the leader of the arrest team and the lead investigator in the case. The defense claimed illegal searches, improperly kept records, and problems during questioning. Igor Sayenko raised questions about the videotape of the searches conducted in the suspects' apartments. According to Sayenko, the tape constantly stops and restarts, showing the evidence obtained only after being picked up by investigators, but never the actual moment of discovery. The legal team also denied that the people in the murder videos were the suspects.\n\nIn an interview with \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\", Igor Sayenko claimed that a fourth suspect named Danila Kozlov was initially charged with the murders. Tatiana Shram, a sister of victim Elena Shram, also stated in an interview that she saw Kozlov's name mentioned in court documents, and that Kozlov was reportedly aware of the murders, and was with the suspects just before her sister was murdered. Shram further stated that the investigators told her that Kozlov remains free because he \"did not murder anyone,\" and that when her attorney attempted to bring up the matter in court, the judge \"asked him to sit down.\"\n\nIgor Sayenko continued to speculate on the influence of the families of the \"real killers\", claiming that he conducted an interview with an escaped victim who wanted his identity kept secret for fear for his life. This unnamed victim claimed that he identified the suspects in his attack, and that two other men were identified and arrested. The suspects were supposedly released an hour later due to pressure from their families, and two of the investigators were fired. Sayenko stated in court that four days before the three suspects were arrested, police caught two men and a woman committing one of the murders. The suspects attacked the police officers but were arrested and were booked under the names of Sayenko and Suprunyuk, but they were not the men currently on trial. \"But now these details are being covered up\", Sayenko said in court. \"The investigators claim that this did not happen. But there are people, officers in the Militsiya, who on July 19, 2007 received reports that those three were arrested. […] But, alas, it turned out that the persons arrested had powerful parents. So the information was quickly suppressed, and instead my son and two of his friends were railroaded. I also believe that the girl arrested on that day has since left the country and is now in Germany.\"\n\nThe defense team also claimed the prosecution withheld from the court information that exonerated their clients. Igor Sayenko claimed the police interviewed witnesses and recovered evidence from two additional murders. The suspects had a strong alibi for the time of these murders, and so all information on these crimes was removed from the case.\nSayenko's defense claimed that he had a \"psychological dependence\" on Suprunyuk, whom they called the ringleader. They claimed that Suprunyuk repeatedly threatened Sayenko, and that Sayenko feared for his life. Sayenko testified in court that he was in constant fear of Suprunyuk since 7th grade.\n\nThe strategy of the defense team received some support from the victims' families, who were reportedly dissatisfied with the slow-moving legal process and an alleged cover-up by the investigators. Some victims' relatives told the media they planned to begin an independent organization to monitor the court proceedings. The authorities in Ukraine strongly denied that a fourth person was involved in the killings who could still be at large, and said that rumors of similar crimes taking place since the arrest of the three suspects are unfounded.\n\nThe suspects' mobile phones and personal computers contained multiple video recordings of the murders. A video was leaked to the Internet, showing the murder of 48‑year-old Sergei Yatzenko. He is seen lying on his back in a wooded area, and is struck repeatedly in the face with a hammer held inside a plastic bag. One attacker stabs Yatzenko in the eye and abdomen with a screwdriver. Yatzenko is then struck with the hammer to ensure he is dead. The attack lasts over four minutes, during which the victim lapses in and out of consciousness. One murderer is seen smiling towards the camera during the video. The murderers walk back to their car, showing that the crime took place close to the side of a road, next to their parked car. They discuss the murder calmly, expressing mild surprise that the victim was still breathing after a screwdriver was plunged into his exposed brain. The suspects then wash their hands and the hammer with a water bottle, and begin to laugh. Only two suspects appear to be present in the video, with one always behind the camera.\n\nThe suspects were also found in possession of multiple photographs showing them attending funerals of the victims. They can be seen smiling and \"flipping off\" the coffins and gravestones. Evidence of animal abuse was also shown in court, with the suspects posing alongside mutilated animal corpses.\n\nThe photographic and video evidence was shown in court on 29 October 2008, as part of a larger presentation of over 300 photographs and two videos. The defense objected to the presentation, claiming that the evidence was obtained illegally, and that the subjects shown in the video and the photographs were digitally altered to resemble the suspects. When Sayenko and Suprunyuk were asked if they recognized the people in the photographs, they replied that they did not. Judge Ivan Senchenko responded by stating: \"You are not blind.\" Valery Voronyuk, an expert on film and video editing, testified that the video was not faked or altered. The court rejected all defense objections, accepted the prosecution's argument that the material was genuine and showed the suspects in the act of murdering their victims.\n\nThe man whose murder is recorded in the leaked video was identified as Sergei Yatzenko from the village of . His murder took place on 12 July 2007, and his body was found on 16 July. Yatzenko was 48 years old. He had recently been forced into retirement due to a cancerous tumor in his throat. The treatment left him unable to speak for some time, but Yatzenko was unhappy with being unable to work and continued to find odd jobs around the village. He took on small construction work, repaired cars, wove baskets and cooked for his family. He was beginning to regain his voice at the time he was murdered. Yatzenko was married and had two sons and one grandchild. He also looked after his disabled mother.\n\nAt around 14:30 on the day of the murder, he called his wife to say he was going to fill his motorcycle and visit his grandchild. He never arrived at his grandson's house, and his mobile phone was turned off by 18:00. His wife Lyudmila called a friend and walked around the village, afraid that her husband might have fallen ill or had a motorcycle accident. They could not locate any sign of him. They also could not file a missing person's report, since in Ukraine a person cannot be declared missing until at least 72 hours after last being seen. The next day, Lyudmila posted photographs of her husband around the village, and enlisted more local help to search the surrounding area. Four days later, a local who saw one of Lyudmila's posters remembered seeing an abandoned Dnepr bike in a remote wooded area by a garbage dump. He took Yatzenko's relatives to the scene, where they discovered his mutilated and decomposing body.\n\nThe fact that Yatzenko's murder was captured on video was unknown to the public until a court session on 29 October 2008. The unedited video of the murder was shown as part of a large presentation by the prosecution, causing shock in the gallery. The court agreed with the prosecution that the video was genuine, that it showed Suprunyuk attacking the victim, and that Sayenko was the man behind the camera.\n\nThe video showing the murder of Sergei Yatzenko was leaked to a shock site based in the United States and dated 4 December 2008. Ekaterina Levchenko, adviser to Ukraine's minister of the interior, was critical of the leak, but admitted that control of videos on the Internet was \"virtually impossible\". Caitlin Moran of \"The Times\" watched part of the video and recalled her reaction in her column in January 2009.\n\nOn 11 February 2009, the court in Dnepropetrovsk found Sayenko and Suprunyuk guilty of premeditated murder and sentenced both to life imprisonment. Suprunyuk was found guilty of 21 murders, Sayenko of 18. They also received fifteen-year sentences after being found guilty on the robbery charges. Hanzha, who was not involved in the killings, was found guilty of robbery and sentenced to nine years in prison. Sayenko and Suprunyuk were also found guilty on the animal cruelty charges. Hanzha said of Sayenko and Suprunyuk: \"If I had known the atrocities that they were capable of committing, I would have not gone near them at gunpoint.\" The judge stated in the verdict that the main motive for the crimes had been a desire for \"morbid self-affirmation\". Referring to the accused, the court noted \"the poverty of their emotional world, and their absence of interest in people and moral standards\".\n\nThe court's verdict was several hundred pages long and read out over two days. The lawyers for Sayenko and Suprunyuk announced their intention to appeal, saying that the authenticity of the photographic and video evidence was not established beyond reasonable doubt. The claim was dismissed by Edmund Saakian, a lawyer for one of the victims' families, who commented: \"In theory a photo can be faked, but to fake a forty-minute video would require a studio and a whole year.\" Larissa Dovgal, a representative of the victims' families, claimed other perpetrators involved in the crimes could still be at large.\n\nThe parents of Sayenko and Suprunyuk repeated their belief in the innocence of their sons. Vladimir Suprunyuk claimed that Igor had been tortured to extract his confession, with the police covering his head and forcing him to inhale cigarette smoke. Speaking at a televised press conference, he cited irregularities in the investigation, and said that the case against his son was false. Sayenko claimed that his son was a scapegoat, and that the crimes were committed by relatives of senior officials. The parents plan to appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the European Court of Human Rights. The parents of Sayenko and Suprunyuk also argued that the sentence on Hanzha was too lenient. An opinion poll conducted in Dnepropetrovsk found that 50.3% of people believed that the sentence was fair, and 48.6% believed that the sentence should have been more severe. In April 2011, a poll found that nearly 60% of Ukrainians wanted the death penalty available for serial killings where judicial error had been ruled out.\n\nOn 18 August 2009, the Supreme Court of Ukraine referred the case back to the Dnepropetrovsk regional court of appeal. The move was welcomed by Igor Sayenko, who stated that it was a step towards clearing his son's name. Speaking at a press conference, Igor Sayenko and Vladimir Suprunyuk repeated their belief that the case was based on fabricated evidence. A spokesperson for the prosecutor's office said that the decision to refer the case back to the appeal court was procedural, and that they were confident that the verdict would be upheld. The appeal was scheduled for 5 October 2009. In an interview with the newspaper \"Novi Most\", the mothers of Sayenko and Suprunyuk said that their children were being treated well in prison. It was also reported that Igor Sayenko was considering setting up a website about the case.\n\nOn 24 November 2009, the Supreme Court of Ukraine upheld the life sentences passed on Sayenko and Suprunyuk in February 2009. Hanzha did not appeal against his nine-year sentence.\n\nOn 2 August 2010, the Chilean television channel MEGA broadcast a documentary about the case. It was titled ' (\"The Hammer Maniacs\") and ran for 1 hour and 25 minutes as part of the investigative series ' (\"Here, Live\"). Journalist Michele Canale flew to Dnepropetrovsk and interviewed a range of people involved in the case.\n\nThe parents of Sayenko and Suprunyuk maintained the innocence of their children, while detectives involved in the case gave their recollections, and repeated the lack of confirmation for the theory that the murder videos had been shot as snuff films for sale overseas. Lidia Mikrenischeva, an elderly woman who survived a hammer attack and helped to identify the killers in court, was also interviewed. She recalled being struck on the head from behind and falling to the ground, but her life was saved when the dogs accompanying her barked loudly and scared off the attackers. Natalia Ilchenko, the mother of the first known victim Ekaterina Ilchenko, recalled finding her daughter unrecognizable after the hammer attack, and commented that the killers should not be compared to animals because they killed for fun.\n\nThe documentary was notable for showing a wide range of previously unseen photographs and video material from the case. From an anonymous source, the makers obtained a longer and unedited version of the mobile phone video showing the murder of Sergei Yatzenko on 12 July 2007. Sayenko and Suprunyuk are seen standing at the woodland roadside next to their Daewoo Lanos taxi, waiting for a suitable victim to arrive, and discussing what they are going to do. At one point, Suprunyuk is seen looking through binoculars for any approaching vehicles. He can also be seen posing with a hammer, which he conceals inside a yellow plastic bag. After 20 minutes, Sergei Yatzenko arrives on a bicycle, and is knocked to the ground before the attack in the woods next to the road begins. Yatzenko's children were asked to take part in the documentary, but declined. According to the commentary, at least five more murder videos are known to exist. The Yatzenko video was shown to the Chilean horror film director Jorge Olguín, who was so disturbed that he was unable to watch all of it. The documentary also showed brief excerpts from a five-minute video of the murder of another victim of the maniacs, an unidentified man. At one point in the video, the killers comment that the man has a gold tooth. The man was killed with blows to the head and a knife, with some of his personal belongings taken as trophies.\n\nThe documentary also showed a video recording of Sayenko's confession, in which he admits that robbery was a motive for some of the killings. A video of Hanzha was also shown, with his face bruised after an alleged beating by the police. Michele Canale attempted to obtain an interview with the killers in prison, but was denied by the Ukrainian authorities. A range of motives for the killings was examined, and it was concluded that despite the court verdict, there are still unanswered questions about the case.\n\nOn 5 April 2011, two Russian youths, Artyom Anoufriev () (born 1992) and Nikita Lytkin () (born 1993), known as the Academy maniacs () were arrested in connection with six murders and attacks on residents in Akademgorodok in Irkutsk. The attacks, which involved a mallet and knife, began in December 2010. Both were arrested after a video recording showing a female body being mutilated with a knife was found on a camera belonging to Lytkin's uncle, who had become suspicious. According to media reports, the youths were influenced by reading about the Dnepropetrovsk maniacs on the Internet. A psychiatric examination found them sane, and they told doctors they chose weak people as their victims. On 2 April 2013, Anoufriev was sentenced to life imprisonment, and Lytkin to 24 years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "47151034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47151034", "title": "Festival of Code", "text": "Festival of Code\n\nThe Festival of Code was a yearly event organized by Young Rewired State to motivate young coders to \"build something awesome\". The festival attracted sponsors ranging from the Met Office to Google and SAP.\n\nIn 2016, it was announced that year's Festival of Code would be postponed to 2017, but the event did not occur in 2017 or in subsequent years.\n\nThe Festival of Code occurred over five days, usually in the last week of July to the first week of August. Between Monday and Thursday, participants took part in the festival through one of 67 local centres across the UK, plus two international centres in Kosovo and Bern. Afterwards, between Friday and Sunday, participants all travel to one location within the UK to present their work from the week. In 2015, the weekend was held in Birmingham's International Convention Centre, whereas in 2014 the event was at Plymouth University.\n\nIn 2009, when the event first started, there were only 50 participants attending a weekend at Google's London offices. This number rose to roughly a thousand young people participating across the country, and at the foreign centres. YRS also managed to increase takeup of the event by young female coders from 2% at their first event in 2009, to 30% in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19427717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19427717", "title": "Georgia Apple Festival", "text": "Georgia Apple Festival\n\nThe Georgia Apple Festival is an annual festival in Ellijay, Georgia. The festival has been held every October since 1971 and offers handmade crafts, live music, and apples. An annual parade and antique car show are also held in conjunction with the festival.\n\nAfter the boll weevil came through and destroyed Georgia's cotton crops in the 1920s, Gilmer County's economy was bolstered by its apple orchards. A festival to celebrate the apples and what they did for the county during the hard times created by the loss of the cotton crop was first held in 1971.\n\nThere are over 300 vendors and exhibitions. The vendor booths include candles, woodwork, crafts, food, and blacksmith and glass blowing exhibits. Apple fritters, pies, and other apple treats are the face of the Georgia apple festival. The hundreds of booths feature craftsmen and artisans from throughout the Southeastern United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "8817797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8817797", "title": "Good Vibrations Festival", "text": "Good Vibrations Festival\n\nGood Vibrations Festival commenced in 2004 and is an annual Australian music festival held in Melbourne, Sydney, Gold Coast and Perth. The festival takes place during February.\n\nMaster of Ceremonies – Supernatural\n\n Brisbane Botanic Gardens\n"}
{"id": "2592375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2592375", "title": "Hurricane preparedness for New Orleans", "text": "Hurricane preparedness for New Orleans\n\nHurricane preparedness in New Orleans has been an issue since the city's early settlement because of its location.\n\nNew Orleans was built on a marsh. Unlike the first two centuries of its existence, today a little under half of the modern city sits below sea level. The city is surrounded by the Mississippi River, Lake Pontchartrain to the north, and Lake Borgne on the east.\n\nThe earliest-settled parts of New Orleans and surrounding communities are above sea level. However, flooding was long a threat, from the periodic high waters of the Mississippi and from more occasional severe tropical storms which pushed the waters of Lake Pontchartrain into settled areas. Construction of the levees along the River began soon after the city was founded, and more extensive river levees were built as the city grew. These earthen barriers were erected to prevent damage caused by seasonal Mississippi River flooding. The Lake Pontchartrain shore was mostly undeveloped swamp, and only small levees were built there in the 19th century.\n\nAwareness of the city's vulnerability to hurricanes dates back to the early Colonial era. A major hurricane hit the city in September 1722, leveling many of the buildings in the young city.\n\n1794 was perhaps as dreadful a year as the city of New Orleans ever experienced, as it suffered two hurricanes in addition to a major fire.\n\nThe 19th century saw such hurricanes as the 1856 Last Island Hurricane and the 1893 Chenière Caminada hurricane, which were devastating.\n\n1909 saw the Grand Isle hurricane hit the city. There was major flooding in the \"back of town\" area and in the undeveloped swamps north of town.\n\nThe 1915 New Orleans hurricane, or as it was called locally, \"the Great Storm of 1915\" struck with more wind damage than the 1909 storm. Flooding was more limited in scope and duration due to improved drainage pumping. However, Lake Pontchartrain rose to a higher level than previously recorded, overtopping some of the back levees. The Sewage and Water Board recommended taller levees to protect the city from flooding on the lake side.\n\nA much larger project to build up levees along the lake and extend the shoreline out by dredging began in 1927. As the city grew, there was increased pressure to develop lower-lying areas. A large system of canals and pumps was constructed to drain the land. Flooding containment efforts until the mid-20th century primarily focused on floods from the Mississippi River.\n\nIn 1947, the Fort Lauderdale hurricane struck the New Orleans area. There was moderate wind damage. Flood prevention was largely successful in Orleans Parish, but there was severe flooding in the new East Jefferson suburbs near the Lake.\n\nHurricane Flossy in 1956 resulted in flooding in parts of Eastern New Orleans.\n\nHurricane Betsy in 1965 alerted a new generation to the threat posed by major hurricanes. As radar showed the storm heading for the city, a mandatory evacuation of Eastern New Orleans was declared. The Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet Canal channeled storm surge into the metro area. A levee failure was responsible for major flooding in the Lower 9th Ward.\n\nThe heavy flood damage caused by Hurricane Betsy brought concerns about hurricane flooding to the forefront. Betsy resulted in a major redesign of the levee system. By authorizing the United States Army Corps of Engineers to design and construct the flood protection, Congress essentially overrode responsibility for flood protection by the local levee boards. The Flood Control Act of 1965 directed the Corps of Engineers to plan for the maximum anticipated hurricane for the area. (This project was still under construction when the city was struck by Katrina 40 years later.)\n\nThe Corps of Engineers also designed a Lake Pontchartrain Hurricane Barrier to shield the city with flood gates like those which protect the Netherlands from the North Sea. Congress provided funding, and construction began in 1971. But the work stopped in 1977 when a federal judge ruled, in a lawsuit brought by the environmental group \"Save Our Wetlands\", that the Corps' environmental impact statement was deficient. In 1985, after nearly a decade of court battles, the Corps scrapped the plan, and decided to reinforce the existing levee system instead.\n\nThe threat of 1969's Hurricane Camille was known in advance through improved radar technology and much of New Orleans braced for a repeat of Betsy. But Camille turned east and wreaked havoc on the Gulf coast of Mississippi and Alabama.\n\nHurricane Juan (1985) prompted a large evacuation from the city but did little damage.\n\nHurricane Andrew threatened the city in 1992. Clearly a major killer storm which had already devastated parts of south Florida, it prompted the largest evacuation of the city to date. Andrew turned west of the city but prompted re-evaluation of emergency evacuation procedures.\n\nHurricane Georges in 1998 precipitated an even larger evacuation. The Louisiana Superdome was opened as a shelter of last resort for those unable to evacuate, with unfortunate consequences as much of the venue was looted. Highways out of the city were tied up bumper to bumper, prompting development of the Contraflow lane reversal plan. The evacuation from Greater New Orleans and the Mississippi coast was the largest in U.S. history up to that point. \n\nGeorges missed the city, but it caused significant storm surge, raising the level of Lake Pontchartrain to the point that the city was spared major flooding only by the lake levees and flood walls. There was significant destruction to the areas just outside the flood walls, including at Little Woods [?] and at West End near the mouth of the 17th Street Canal.\n\nIn early 2001, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), named three major scenarios as being among the most serious threats to the nation: (1) a major hurricane hitting New Orleans, (2) a terrorist attack in New York City, and (3) a large earthquake hitting San Francisco. In 2004, a Corps of Engineers study was done on the cost and feasibility of protecting southeast Louisiana from a major Category 5 hurricane, including construction of floodgate structures and raising existing levees. The report also suggested that the chances of a major Category 5 hurricane directly striking New Orleans was a one-in-500-year event.\n\nIn 2001, the \"Houston Chronicle\" published a story which predicted that a severe hurricane striking New Orleans, \"would strand 250,000 people or more, and probably kill one of 10 left behind as the city drowned under of water. Thousands of refugees could end up in Houston.\" In 2002, \"The Times Picayune\" published a feature covering various scenarios, including a Category 5 hurricane hitting the city from the south. The series also explored the various environmental changes that have increased the area's vulnerability. One article in the series concluded that hundreds of thousands would be left homeless, and it would take months to dry out the area and begin to make it liveable. But there wouldn't be much for residents to come home to. The local economy would be in ruins.\n\nMany concerns focus around the fact that the city lies below sea level with a levee system that was designed for hurricanes of no greater intensity than Category 3. Furthermore, its natural defenses, the surrounding marshland and the barrier islands, have been dwindling in recent years. Just a few months before Katrina, the FX docudrama \"Oil Storm\" depicted a Category 4 hurricane hitting New Orleans, killing thousands of people and forcing residents to evacuate and hide out in the Superdome, and speculated about a national economic meltdown caused by the decreased oil supply.\n\nHurricane Isidore in 2002 prompted some cautious New Orleanians to evacuate; the majority kept an eye on the news without leaving town.\n\nIn 2002 the Corps of Engineers, in conjunction with the Louisiana Water Resources Research Institute at Louisiana State University (LSU), and the authorities in Jefferson Parish, modeled the effects and aftermath of a Category 5 strike on New Orleans. The model predicted an unprecedented disaster, with extensive loss of life and property. The study identified the problem: the New Orleans area is like a bowl, surrounded by levees which are strongest along the outer Mississippi and primarily intended to contain river flooding. When a hurricane drives water into Lake Pontchartrain, the weaker levees bordering Pontchartrain and canals leading to it are overwhelmed. Water then flows into the below-sea-level city, accompanied by water overflowing the levees along the Mississippi on the south side of the city center.\n\nIn 2004 Hurricane Ivan's threat to the city resulted in the largest evacuation of the city to date. Mayor Ray Nagin issued a call for a voluntary evacuation of the city at 6 pm on September 13. An estimated 600,000 or more evacuated from Greater New Orleans. The contraflow plan was put into full effect for the first time, but rather late in the evacuation due to various confusions. This proved valuable practice, for the contraflow was implemented much more smoothly in 2005.\n\nHurricane Pam was a hypothetical hurricane used as a disaster scenario to drive planning for a 13-parish area in Southeastern Louisiana, including the city of New Orleans, in 2004. Developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Louisiana Office of Homeland Security, Emergency Preparedness, the National Weather Service, and Innovative Emergency Management, Inc., the mock hurricane scenario and its projected consequences were the focal point of an eight-day exercise held at the State Emergency Operations Center in Baton Rouge in July 2004. Hurricane Pam was a slow-moving Category 3 storm with sustained winds of 120 mph. It brought with it up to of rain to some parts of southeastern Louisiana and caused levee-topping storm surge. The consequence assessment for Hurricane Pam indicated that more than one million people would be displaced and that 600,000 buildings would be damaged, with some completely destroyed. 60,000 people would be killed. The report on the simulation, TIME reported, warned that transportation would be a major problem in any storm situation paralleling the fictional \"Hurricane Pam.\"\n\nFollow-on Hurricane Pam workshops were conducted in November/December 2004, July 2005, and August 2005.\n\nThe Hurricane Pam scenario and the level of attention that the federal government paid to it were discussed following the catastrophic effects of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans in November and December 2005.\n\nOn January 25, 2005, the Louisiana Sea Grant forum discussed additional results of several simulations of strong hurricanes hitting New Orleans.\n\nHurricane Cindy hit Louisiana at just barely hurricane strength on July 5, 2005. Many New Orleanians paid it little attention in advance, some having gotten blasé about threats of hurricanes which for decades had missed the city. However, Cindy's winds gusted to in the city, knocking branches off trees and causing New Orleans' largest blackout since Hurricane Betsy in 1965. The experience encouraged many to evacuate when the much more powerful Hurricane Katrina was heading towards the city less than two months later.\n\nHurricane Katrina threatened the city in August 2005. The eye of the huge storm grazed the eastern side of the city, sparing it from the worst of its power. However, due to poorly designed levees and the worst civil engineering failure in United States history, most of the city experienced flooding similar to a direct hit; see: Levee failures in Greater New Orleans, 2005.\n\nThere were many predictions of hurricane risk in New Orleans before Katrina.\n\nOn August 26 the storm, at one point up to a Category 5, was in the Gulf with a projection to possibly hit New Orleans a few days later. (The previous day the projected path was towards the Florida Panhandle.) On August 27 Mayor Nagin declared a state of emergency and called for a voluntary evacuation. The following day he issued the city's first ever whole-city mandatory evacuation order. A mandatory evacuation order is an extreme measure: the most recent such order in Louisiana occurred when east New Orleans was ordered evacuated in 1965.\n\nThere have been various plans to mitigate or prevent catastrophes. The evacuation plans were the most successful. The contraflow worked relatively smoothly, and over 80% of the population succeeded in fleeing the area in advance of the storm. The evacuation no doubt saved thousands of lives. However, beyond the evacuation of those willing and able to leave town through their own resources, almost every other aspect of preparedness was found wanting.\n\nLike many other cities, New Orleans heavily relied on evacuation in case of a Category 5 storm. The inadequacy of evacuation plans was shown when no provision was made in time to evacuate the large number of people– elderly, disabled, those without cars– who could not leave by their own means.\n\nBlame for lack of preparedness has been leveled at all levels of government. New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has been criticized for not following the city's evacuation plan which called for the use of school buses to transport disadvantaged and elderly citizens out of the city. Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco was also criticized for not deploying the Louisiana National Guard sooner, although she did in fact deploy them before the hurricane hit and requested reinforcements from other states. Blanco asked for additional resources from the federal government, but refused to declare martial law or a state of emergency. Disorganization began when the Louisiana Governor declined a proposal from the White House to put National Guard troops under the control of the federal government. President George W. Bush and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff were also criticized for failures on the federal level as well as with his leadership role. FEMA chief Michael D. Brown admitted on the 1 year anniversary of landfall that \"There was no plan\" and claimed that in the immediate aftermath of the disaster White House officials told him to lie to put a more positive spin on the Federal response.\n\nOne of the most significant planning failures was that there was no plan for the effects of a levee breach with the mass flooding that would result. After a typical hurricane hit the region, the plan would be for disaster relief forces to reach the city by overland routes. Since there was no New Orleans mass flooding and isolation by flooding plan, the plan that was pulled off the books was the hurricane relief plan. This plan failed because the relief personnel, most of whom were in trucks, could not get past nor through the areas that were under water. That there was no mass flooding relief plan to be executed was obvious by the lack of any heavy-lift helicopters such as Chinooks in relief forces that would have replaced the usual truck-born hurricane relief forces. A mass flooding with regional isolation plan would not have used land-based relief forces at all overland relief was impossible because of the barrier in place with the flooding.\n\nThe designation by the city of the Louisiana Superdome as the \"shelter of last resort\" proved poor. It did not meet the safety standards required for a Red Cross shelter and thus it was not staffed by them or the Salvation Army. Thousands were trapped inside it as the area around it flooded and part of the roof blew off. Provisions for supplies were just barely adequate; sanitation, medical, and crowd control were worse. Since there was no flood-based federal nor state plan, heavy lift capacity helicopters that could have brought 16 tons of water, medical and food per flight were nowhere to be found. The much less effective hurricane-only response utilized much smaller UH and Black Hawk helicopters.\n\nUnder the National Response Plan, disaster planning is first and foremost a local government responsibility. On the day after the Hurricane, Michael Chertoff invoked the National Response Plan, transferring emergency authority to the Department of Homeland Security.\n\nCivil order broke down, infrastructure failed, and some 80% of the city flooded. A few government responders, including Coast Guard helicopters and Louisiana Fisheries & Wildlife Boats, responded early and worked hard to save people stranded in the flooding, but their numbers were inadequate for the scope of the disaster. Private volunteers with boats assisted with rescue in great numbers, but significant Federal response was largely absent until 5 days after the disaster.\n\nThe next major hurricane threat to the city after Katrina came less than a month later, as Hurricane Rita headed towards the Gulf Coast as the city was still in ruins. Repopulation of some parts of the city had just begun when it was canceled and the city ordered re-evacuation. The levee system again failed, re-flooding low-lying portions of the city such as the Lower Ninth Ward.\n\nHurricane Ernesto in 2006 originally threatened Louisiana before hitting Florida, causing early preparations and rising oil prices.\n\nMaking landfall in Louisiana on September 1, 2008 as a category two hurricane, Hurricane Gustav was the first to put large scale preparations in motion, although the storm was still in Caribbean on the third anniversary of Katrina. Locals were warned to prepare for a possible evacuation of the city and additional National Guard units were called out, and a state of emergency was declared. Soon afterwards, 1.9 million people were evacuated from southern Louisiana, including 200,000 from the City of New Orleans. Contraflow lanes were again initiated. Forty-three deaths occurred in Louisiana as a result of the storm.\n\nWhile no detailed proposals had yet been made to augment the New Orleans levee system to be capable of withstanding a category 4 or greater hurricane, in October 2004, the Corps of Engineers submitted a proposal to Congress requesting US$4 Million to fund a preliminary study for such a plan. Congress tabled the proposal, never addressing it on the floor, citing budgetary concerns resulting from the Iraq War. A senior Corps official made an off-hand estimate that this project would require approximately $1 Billion dollars and would take 20 years, stating \"It's possible to protect New Orleans from a Category 5 hurricane... we've got to start. To do nothing is tantamount to negligence.\" Whether or not such additional funding might have been capable of preventing the extensive flooding in New Orleans caused by Katrina, is a matter that has yet to be determined.\n\nStarting in 2003, federal spending on the Southeast Louisiana Project was substantially reduced. Lt. General Carl Strock, Chief of Engineers at the Corps of Engineers, said that, \"at the time that these levees were designed and constructed, it was felt that that was an adequate level given the probability of an event like this occurring.\" Strock also said that he did not believed that funding levels contributed to the disaster, commenting that, \"the intensity of this storm simply exceeded the design capacity of this levee.\" Strock also told reporters that the Corps of Engineers \"had a 200- or 300-year level of protection. That means that an event that we were protecting from might be exceeded every 200 or 300 years.\"\n\nFrom 2001 through 2005, the Bush administration battled with Congress to cut a total of approximately 67% from the budgetary requests from the Corps of Engineers for levee augmentation projects in the New Orleans area, but ultimately settled with Congress on a 50% cut in these budgetary requests. In February 2004, Al Naomi, a project manager for the Corps of Engineers, stated that, \"I've got at least six levee construction contracts (in the New Orleans area where funding has been cut) that need to be done to raise the levee protection back to where it should be (because of settling). Right now I owe my contractors about US$5 Million. And we're going to have to pay them interest.\"\n\nEven as the Bush administration was cutting the Corps of Engineers' budget, many were criticizing the administration for not cutting the budget more. The \"New York Times\", in particular, published several editorials criticizing the large size of the $17 Billion Corps budget, and called for the Senate to cut, \"pork,\" in S. 728, which would have provided $512 Million in funding for hurricane protection projects in southern Louisiana.\n\nJust after Hurricane Katrina hit, there was some concern expressed that government officials had placed an overemphasis on disaster recovery, while neglecting the process of pre-planning and preparation.\n\nIn the 17 months following Katrina, five investigations were carried out. The only federally ordered study was conducted by the American Society of Civil Engineers and paid for by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Two major independent studies were done by the University of California at Berkeley and Louisiana State University. Two minor studies were done by FEMA and the insurance industry. All five studies basically agree on the engineering mechanisms of failure.\n\nThe failure mechanisms included overtopping of levees and floodwalls by the storm surge, consequential undermining of flood wall foundations or other weakening by water of the wall foundations, and the storm surge pressures exceeding the strength of the floodwalls. In June 2006, a contrite Lt. Gen Carl Strock took responsibility for the failure of metro New Orleans flood protection, calling the system \"a system in name only.\"\n\nAs of August 2006, the Corps of Engineers planned to spend $6 billion to make sure that by 2010, the city would probably be flooded only once every 100 years. But this would not equal the best levee system in the world, which is in The Netherlands. That system is designed to protect populated areas against anything but a 1-in-10,000-years flood. If the Corps built a 1-in-500-year levee system in New Orleans, Ivan van Heerden, deputy director of Louisiana State University's Hurricane Center, says, it would cost $30 billion.\n\nAccording to a study by the National Academy of Engineering and the National Research Council, levees and floodwalls surrounding New Orleans—no matter how large or sturdy—cannot provide absolute protection against overtopping or failure in extreme events. Levees and floodwalls should be viewed as a way to reduce risks from hurricanes and storm surges, not as measures that completely eliminate risk. For structures in hazardous areas and residents who do not relocate, the committee recommended major floodproofing measures such as elevating the first floor of buildings to at least the 100-year flood level.\n\nWhen the Corps of Engineers started systematically leveeing the river in the 19th century, it cut off the region's main source of silt, the raw material of delta-building in the Mississippi Delta and the Wetlands of Louisiana. The weight of large buildings and infrastructure and the leaching of water, oil and gas from beneath the surface across the region have also contributed to the problem. Following the great floods of 1927, the Mississippi River was surrounded by a series of levees meant to protect the city from such floods. In 1965, New Orleans was hit by Hurricane Betsy, which caused tremendous flooding in the New Orleans area. The federal government began a levee-building program to protect New Orleans from a Category 3 hurricane (the same strength as Betsy). These series of levees were completed in recent years before Hurricane Katrina.\n\nHowever, an unintended consequence of the levees was that natural silt deposits from the Mississippi River were unable to replenish the delta, causing the coastal wetlands of Louisiana to wash away and the city of New Orleans to sink even deeper. The Mississippi River delta is subsiding faster than any other place in the nation. While the land is sinking, sea level has been rising. In the past 100 years, land subsidence and sea-level rise have recently added three feet to all storm surges. That extra height puts affected areas under deeper water; it also means flooding from weaker storms and from the outer edges of powerful storms spreads over wider areas. The marshes that ring New Orleans, as well as the land depression of the city itself, originally above sea level, have sunk the quickest.\n\nThe problem with the wetlands was further worsened by salt water intrusion caused by the canals dug by the oil companies and private individuals in this marshland. This erosion of the wetlands not only caused Louisiana to lose per year of land annually and of land since the 1930s, but it also destroyed Louisiana’s first line of defense against hurricanes.\n\nHurricanes draw their strength from the sea, so they quickly weaken and begin to dissipate when they make landfall. Hurricanes moving over fragmenting marshes toward the New Orleans area can retain more strength, and their winds and large waves pack more speed and destructive power. Scientists working for the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources measured some of these effects during Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Andrew's surge height dropped from at Cocodrie to at the Houma Navigation Canal to the north. For every mile of the marsh-and-water landscape it traversed, it lost 3.1 inches of height, sparing some homes farther north from more flooding. Currently Louisiana has 30% of the total coastal marsh and accounts for 90% of the coastal marsh loss in the lower 48 states. The engineering of the river has basically brought the Gulf of Mexico much closer to New Orleans, making it more vulnerable to hurricanes.\n\nThe combination of sinking land and rising seas has placed the Mississippi River delta as much as lower relative to sea level than it was a century ago, and the process continues. That means hurricane floods driven inland from the Gulf have risen by corresponding amounts. Storms that once would not have had much impact can now be devastating events, and flooding now penetrates into places where it has rarely occurred before. The problem also is slowly eroding levee protection, cutting off evacuation routes sooner and putting dozens of communities and valuable infrastructure at risk of being wiped out by the flooding.\n\nState and federal officials have recently pushed a $14 billion plan to rebuild wetlands over the next 30 years, to be funded by oil and gas royalties, called Coast 2050.\n\nWetlands have the capacity to absorb storm surges at the rate of per . However, due to the systematic, long-term nature of wetland loss, and because wetland remediation can take decades, it is not possible to pinpoint blame for wetland loss on any specific Congress, legislature, President, or governor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610265", "title": "Illegal dumping", "text": "Illegal dumping\n\nIllegal dumping, also called fly dumping or fly tipping, is the dumping of waste illegally instead of using an authorised method such as kerbside collection or using an authorised rubbish dump. It is the illegal deposit of any waste onto land, including waste dumped or tipped on a site with no licence to accept waste. The United States Environmental Protection Agency developed a “profile” of the typical illegal dumper. Characteristics of offenders include, local residents, construction and landscaping contractors, waste removers, scrap yard operators, and automobile and tire repair shops.\n\nIllegal dumping is typically distinguished from littering by the type and amount of material and/or the manner in which it is discarded. An example of littering could be throwing a cigarette on the ground. However, emptying a rubbish bin with no permission in a public or private area can be classified as illegal dumping.\n\nThe term \"fly tipping\" is derived from the verb \"tip\", meaning \"to throw out of a vehicle\", and \"on the fly\", meaning \"on the wing\" – to throw away carelessly or casually.\n\nIllegal dumping involves the unauthorized disposal of numerous types of waste. Typical materials dumped include building materials from construction sites, such as drywall, roofing shingles, lumber, brick, concrete, and siding. Other frequently dumped materials include automobile parts, household appliances, household waste, furniture, yard scraps, and medical waste.\n\nThe reasons people illegally dump vary; however, research indicates that lack of legal waste disposal options is a primary factor. A shortage of legal disposal options drives demand for waste removal service, increasing prices. Studies also have found unit pricing, which involves charging a set price per bag of garbage thrown out, may contribute to illegal dumping. Although the intent of unit pricing is to encourage people to use other forms of waste disposal such as recycling and composting, people may turn to disposing of waste in unauthorized areas to save money. Additionally, weak enforcement of laws prohibiting illegal dumping and a lack of public awareness regarding the environmental, health, and economic dangers of illegal dumping contribute.\n\nEffects of illegal dumping include health, environmental, and economic consequences. While legal waste disposal locations, such as landfills, are designed to contain waste and its byproducts from infiltrating the surrounding environment, illegal dumping areas do not typically incorporate the same safeguards. Due to this, illegal dumping may sometimes lead to pollution of the surrounding environment. Toxins or hazardous materials infiltrating soil and drinking water threaten the health of local residents. Additionally, illegal dump sites that catch fire pollute the air with toxic particles. Environmental pollution due to illegal dumping causes short term and long term health issues. Short term issues include asthma, congenital illnesses, stress and anxiety, headaches, dizziness and nausea, and eye and respiratory infections. Long term concerns include cancer and kidney, liver, respiratory, cardiovascular, brain, nervous, and lymphohematopoietic diseases. Beyond negative health outcomes due to pollution and toxic waste, illegal dumps pose a physical threat. Unstable piles of material and exposed nails threaten harm to humans, specifically children who may be attracted to illegal dumps as play areas.\n\nIllegal dumps also attract vermin and insects. Tires, a material frequently illegally disposed of as most municipalities ban their disposal in landfills, provide an ideal breeding ground for mosquitos due to stagnant water collected within the wheels. Mosquitos transfer life threatening diseases, such as encephalitis and West Nile virus, to humans.\n\nMaterials disposed of in illegal dumps, specifically tires and electronic waste, are combustible. Outbreaks of fire at illegal dump sites can lead to forest fires, causing erosion and destroying habitat.\n\nIllegal dumping also negatively affects surrounding property values. Unattractive and odorous accumulations of waste discourage commercial and residential developers from improving communities. Additionally, existing residents may have difficulty “taking pride” in their neighborhoods.\n\nIn addition to decreasing property values and, therefore, tax revenue for governments, illegal dumping costs governments millions of dollars in clean up costs. In the United Kingdom, the Environmental Protection Agency spends £100–150 million annually to investigate and clean up illegal dump sites. The United States Environmental Protection Agency estimates several million in costs each year nationwide.\n\nEfforts to combat illegal dumping vary in each situation as solutions are crafted with specific community dynamics in mind. However, common approaches include a combination of limiting access to illegal dumping sites, surveillance, enforcement, and increasing access to legal waste disposal opportunities. Listed below are common techniques employed by governing bodies:\n\nThe majority of illegal dumpers engage in illicit waste disposal at night, as darkness helps them avoid detection. Installing lighting around known or potential illegal dumping sites deters the practice. In Canada Bay, New South Wales, the city installed solar powered lights in dumping “hot spots”. Following installation of the lights, the city received less complaints regarding illegal dumping in those areas.\n\nOther methods of limiting access include re-landscaping and beautifying illegal dump sites. Adding aesthetic amenities such as grass, flowers, and benches demonstrates that the site is well maintained, discouraging dumpers. Additionally, increasing community use of the area will adjust locals’ perception of the site from dumping ground to valued open space.\n\nAdding barriers such as fencing, rocks, locked gates, and concrete blocks prevents offenders from accessing dump sites with their vehicles, completely deterring illegal dumping or reducing the volume of disposed materials. For example, Maitland, New South Wales erected fences around rural dumping sites prevented vehicles from gaining access. Continued monitoring 12 months later showed that 80% of dump sites protected by the fences experienced negligible illegal waste disposal activity.\n\nIncreasing offenders’ risk of getting caught is also a way to combat illegal dumping. The most common way to accomplish this is through surveillance measures, such as video cameras. Camera footage can help law enforcement officials identify dumpers while also collecting data on peak dumping periods. Installation of fake cameras has also been shown to be a deterrent. Police patrols, helicopter and plane surveillance, and community surveillance are also options for increasing risk. Police presence generally deters illegal activity, while community surveillance depends upon residents reporting known illegal dumpers to law enforcement for a monetary reward. The cities of Los Angeles, Sacramento, and Oakland all implement similar reporting schemes.\n\nCities can implement periodic compliance campaigns, which involve randomly conducted “crackdowns” by law enforcement. Increased police patrols, anti-dumping signage posted in known illegal disposal sites, random inspections of property, and publicity regarding convicted illegal dumpers and the use surveillance can deter illegal dumping.\n\nRemoving illegal dumpers’ reasons for improperly disposing of waste is also an option for governing bodies. Offenders often dump to save money. Cities can offer free or subsidized waste services to residents to encourage legal disposal. If free and subsidized programs are not feasible due to funding limitations, cities must ensure affordability of waste disposal services. Offering alternate disposal options like recycling and compost centers is also recommended. Giving fines or assigning liability for clean-up costs to those caught illegally disposing of waste can also act as a deterrent.\n\nCombating illegal dumping also involves promoting legal waste disposal avenues. Offering Kerbside collection and improving waste storage in high density residential areas provides residents with convenient trash disposal options. Communication of available services is important to the success of such programs. Offering similar accommodations for commercial and industrial waste generated by office buildings, restaurants, schools, and factories will also decrease instances of illegal dumping.\n\nCities can also combat illegal dumping by offering disposal options for materials and substances banned from landfills, such as tires, toxic and hazardous waste, and medical waste. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection recommends chipping or shredding tires so that they can be recycled in other uses such as highways, playgrounds, and running tracks. The United States Environmental Protection Agency recommends disposing of household hazardous and toxic waste in the nearest community drop off location. For example, Boston, Massachusetts holds drop off days four times per year. Similar rules apply to disposal of medical waste. In Boston, officials recommend storing syringes in Sharps Containers and disposing in a designated community site. The city also recommends utilizing mail back services to dispose of used syringes.\n\nCity governments can implement education campaigns to further mitigate illegal dumping. For example, cities can inform residents and businesses of legal waste disposal avenues through mailed flyers, newspaper and radio announcements, and posters. Posting signs near known illegal dumping sites can also help deter offenders.\n\nAccording to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, waste attracts more waste. Therefore, cleaning up existing illegal dumps is a helpful deterrent for additional illegal dumping. The United States Environmental Protection Agency instituted a program to cap open dumps in tribal communities. 1,100 of these dumps exist in the United States and pose health and environmental risks to the surrounding communities. The open dumps are closed off with a clay liner and soil depth accounting for infiltration and erosion. “Native dryland grass” is planted on top of the newly covered dump to prevent erosion and water monitoring wells are installed nearby. \n\nThe Triangle of death (Italy) in Campania, Italy is Europe’s “largest illegal waste dump”. The area, which encompasses Italian municipalities Acerra, Marigliano, and Nola, experiences illegal waste disposal practices by the Camorra such as unauthorized burying of toxic waste under places frequented by humans. Frequent fires at dumping sites and illegal waste fires set by residents have resulted in contamination of the air and drinking water. Additionally, the land has deteriorated due to the illegal waste.\n\nThe environmental pollution caused by the illegal dumping has resulted in elevated instances of cancer and cancer mortality in the region. In 2014 and 2015, the Italian government funded health screenings to track the rise in illnesses in Campania. Studies conducted using the data collected from these screenings found elevated instances of leukemia, lymphoma, and colorectal and liver cancer mortality in one of Campania’s districts. The study attributed this increase in cancer and cancer mortality with toxic exposures from the illegal waste.\n\nIllegal dumping of electronic waste, or e-waste, presents environmental and health concerns in China. The informal e-waste sector recycles the majority of e-waste in China, which is supplied through consumption, importation, and production. Foreign governments often send e-waste to China as the informal sector offers cheaper recycling services. China is not only the “largest e-waste dumping site”, it also generates large amounts of e-waste. In 2006, China produced 1.3 kg of e-waste per capita.\n\nThe informal e-waste sector lacks formal government oversight and pays its workers low wages while using recycling practices that expose both workers and the environment to toxic materials. Toxic substances are found in leachates, particulate matter, ashes, fumes, wastewater, and effluents generated during dumping, dismantling, and burning throughout the recycling process. Particles emitted are carried through the air and deposited nearby recycling centers and in surrounding areas. Leachates and wastewater infiltrate the soil, drinking water, livestock, and fish, exposing humans to toxic substances.\n\nIn recent years, China has begun to address the informal e-waste sector. At the governmental level, improvements have been made to waste management practices through adoption of Western management schemes such as those found in Japan, the United States, and the European Union. Additionally, the Chinese government has invested in improved e-waste collection and processing. Locally, various Chinese cities have constructed “recycling industrial parks” where e-waste can be processed efficiently and without harm to the environment. Regulations on e-waste have been implemented in the Chinese regions of Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsuprovince, Zhejiang province and Guangdong province.\n\nCorporations such as Nokia and Lenovo instituted free return services for Chinese customers who wish to dispose of old electronic products from the two companies.\n\nRubbish disposal in the UK is heavily regulated, with most households having on average one 240 litre bin for recyclable waste and one similar bin of non recyclable waste every week; some areas have additional similar or smaller bins for garden, food, or specific recycling waste. Any large rubbish e.g. old furniture and mattresses - may need to be taken to the local waste depot by the home owner at their own expense, although many councils will collect certain items for free, or for a small fee. This leads to some people simply leaving their waste in open public spaces or untended public gardens. This is called fly tipping. In addition, commercial or industrial users may fly-tip to avoid waste handling charges, as will bogus waste disposal firms.\n\nTaxes on landfill in the UK have led to illegal waste dumping. Materials illegally disposed of can range from green waste and domestic items to abandoned cars and construction waste, much of which may be hazardous or toxic.\n\nAs the cost of disposing of household rubbish and waste increases, so does the number of individuals and businesses that fly-tip, and the UK government has made it easier for members of the public to report fly-tipping. The fine or punishment is normally defined by the local council that operates in the local area in which the rubbish was dumped. According to the BBC, fly-tipping costs councils in England and Wales more than £50m annually (2016).\n\nOpen dumps are locations where illegally dumped, abandoned piles of waste and debris are left in noticeable quantities. Fines are a common punishment for a person caught dumping at an open dump. Open dumps are commonly found in forests, backyards and abandoned buildings. Open dumps are sometimes removed shortly after they are created, but most will persist for an indefinite period of time when the site is situated in the wilderness or in public space without adequate public services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "328242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328242", "title": "Jimmy Savile", "text": "Jimmy Savile\n\nSir James Wilson Vincent Savile OBE KCSG (; 31 October 1926 – 29 October 2011) was an English DJ, television and radio personality who hosted BBC shows including \"Top of the Pops\" and \"Jim'll Fix It\". He raised an estimated £40 million for charities and at the time of his death was widely praised for his personal qualities and as a fund-raiser. After his death, hundreds of allegations of sexual abuse were made against him, leading the police to believe that Savile had been a predatory sex offender—possibly one of Britain's most prolific. There had been allegations during his lifetime, but they were dismissed and accusers ignored or disbelieved; Savile took legal action against some accusers.\n\nSavile worked in coal mines as a teenager, reportedly sustaining spinal injuries at the age of 14, and was a Bevin Boy during the Second World War. He began a career playing records in, and later managing, dance halls, and was said to have been the first disc jockey to use twin turntables to keep music in constant play. His media career started as a disc jockey at Radio Luxembourg in 1958 and on Tyne Tees Television in 1960, and he developed a reputation for eccentricity and flamboyance. At the BBC, he presented the first edition of \"Top of the Pops\" in 1964 and broadcast on Radio 1 from 1968. From 1975 until 1994, he presented \"Jim'll Fix It\", a popular television programme in which he arranged for the wishes of viewers, mainly children, to come true. During his lifetime, he was noted for fund-raising and supporting charities and hospitals, in particular Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, Leeds General Infirmary and Broadmoor Hospital in Berkshire. In 2009 he was described by \"The Guardian\" as a \"prodigious philanthropist\" and was honoured for his charity work. He was awarded the OBE in 1971 and was knighted in 1990. In 2006 he introduced the last edition of \"Top of the Pops\".\n\nIn October 2012, almost a year after his death, an ITV documentary examined claims of sexual abuse by Savile and led to extensive media coverage and a substantial and rapidly growing body of witness statements and sexual abuse claims, including accusations against public bodies for covering up or failure of duty. Scotland Yard launched a criminal investigation into allegations of child sex abuse by Savile spanning six decades, describing him as a \"predatory sex offender\", and later stated that they were pursuing more than 400 lines of inquiry based on the testimony of 300 potential victims via 14 police forces across the UK. By late October 2012, the scandal had resulted in inquiries or reviews at the BBC, within the National Health Service, the Crown Prosecution Service, and the Department of Health. In June 2014, investigations into Savile's activities in 28 NHS hospitals, including Leeds General Infirmary and Broadmoor psychiatric hospital, concluded that he had sexually assaulted staff and patients aged between five and 75 over several decades.\n\nIn January 2013, a joint report by the NSPCC and Metropolitan Police, \"Giving Victims a Voice\", stated that 450 people had made complaints against Savile, with the period of alleged abuse stretching from 1955 to 2009 and the ages of the complainants at the time of the assaults ranging from 8 to 47. The suspected victims included 28 children aged under 10, including 10 boys aged as young as 8. A further 63 were girls aged between 13 and 16 and nearly three-quarters of his alleged victims were under 18. Some 214 criminal offences were recorded, with 34 rapes having been reported across 28 police forces.\n\nSavile, born in Leeds, was the youngest of seven children (his elder siblings were Mary, Marjory, Vincent, John, Joan, and Christina) in a Roman Catholic family. His parents were Vincent Joseph Marie Savile (1886–1953), a bookmaker's clerk and insurance agent, and his wife, Agnes Monica Kelly (1886–1972). Savile believed he owed his life to the intercession of the Venerable Margaret Sinclair, a Scottish nun, after he recovered quickly from illness, possibly pneumonia, at the age of two when his mother prayed at Leeds Cathedral after picking up a pamphlet about Sinclair. At the age of 18 during the Second World War he was conscripted to work as a Bevin Boy and worked in coal mines, where he reportedly suffered spinal injuries in an accident and spent a long period recuperating.\n\nSavile started playing records in dance halls in the early 1940s, and claimed to be the first DJ. According to his autobiography, he was the first to use two turntables and a microphone at the Grand Records Ball at the Guardbridge Hotel in 1947, although his claim to have been the first is disputed; twin turntables were illustrated in the BBC Handbook in 1929 and advertised for sale in \"Gramophone\" magazine in 1931.\n\nHe became a semi-professional sportsman, competing in the 1951 Tour of Britain cycle race and working as a professional wrestler. He said:\n\nSavile lived in Salford from the mid-1950s to the mid-1960s, the later period with Ray Teret, who became his support DJ, assistant and chauffeur. Savile managed the Plaza Ballroom on Oxford Road, Manchester, in the mid-1950s. When he lived in Great Clowes Street in Higher Broughton, Salford, he was often seen sitting on his front door steps. He managed the Mecca Locarno ballroom in Leeds in the late 1950s and early 1960s as well as the Mecca-owned Palais dance hall in Ilford, Essex, between 1955 and 1956. His Monday evening records-only dance sessions (admission one shilling) were popular with local teens.\n\nSavile's radio career began as a DJ at Radio Luxembourg from 1958 to 1967. He ran the \"Teen and Twenty Disc Club\" (\"TTDC\"), membership for life, on Radio Luxembourg. For a small fee listeners received a certificate and bracelet with a disc inscribed with the show's name. On the BBC television series \"Inside Out\", he said the title \"Teen and Twenty Disc Club\" had been rejected as too long in favour of \"Top of the Pops\".\n\nIn 1968, he joined Radio 1, where he presented \"Savile's Travels\", a weekly programme broadcast on Sundays in which he travelled around the UK talking to members of the public. From 1969 to 1973 he fronted \"Speakeasy\", a discussion programme for teenagers. On Radio 1 he presented the Sunday lunchtime show \"Jimmy Savile's Old Record Club\", playing chart Top 10s from years gone by. It was the first show to feature old charts and Savile used a \"points system\" in an imaginary quiz with the audience to guess the names of the song and artist. It began in 1973 as \"The Double Top Ten Show\", and ended in 1987 as \"The Triple Top Ten Show\" when he left Radio 1 after 19 years. He presented \"The Vintage Chart Show\", playing top tens from 1957 to 1987, on the BBC World Service from March 1987 until October 1989.\n\nFrom March 1989 to August 1997 he broadcast on various stations around the UK (mostly taking the Gold format, such as the West Midlands' Xtra AM and the Classic Gold network in Yorkshire) where he revived his Radio 1 shows. In 1994, satirist Chris Morris gave a fake obituary on BBC Radio 1 (as a joke), saying that Savile had collapsed and died, which allegedly drew threats of legal action from Savile and forced an apology from Morris. On 25 December 2005, and 1 January 2007, he presented shows on the Real Radio network. The Christmas 2005 show counted down the festive Top 10s of 10, 20 and 30 years previously, while the New Year 2007 show (also taken by Century Radio following its acquisition by GMG) featured Savile recounting anecdotes from his past and playing associated records, mostly from the 1960s and some from the 1970s.\n\nSavile's first television role was as a presenter of Tyne Tees Television's music programme \"Young at Heart\", which aired from May 1960. Although the show was broadcast in black and white, Savile dyed his hair a different colour every week.\n\nOn New Year's Day 1964 he presented the first edition of the BBC music chart television programme \"Top of the Pops\" from a television studio in a converted church in Dickenson Road, Rusholme, Manchester. On 30 July 2006, he co-hosted the final weekly edition, ending it with the words \"It's number one, it's still \"Top of the Pops\"\", before turning off the studio lights after the closing credits. When interviewed by the BBC on 20 November 2008 and asked about the revival of \"Top of the Pops\" for a Christmas comeback, he said he would welcome a \"cameo role\" in the programme.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Savile co-hosted (with Pete Murray) the televised \"New Musical Express\" Poll Winners' Concert, held annually at the Empire Pool in Wembley, with acts such as the Beatles, Cliff Richard and the Shadows, Joe Brown and the Bruvvers, the Who, and many others. On 31 December 1969, he hosted the BBC/ZDF co-production \"Pop Go the Sixties\", shown across Western Europe, celebrating the hits of the decade.\n\nSavile presented a series of Public Information Films promoting road safety, notably \"Clunk Click Every Trip\", which promoted the use of seatbelts, the clunk representing the sound of the door and the click the sound of the seatbelt fastening. It led to Savile's Saturday-night chat/variety show from 1973 on BBC1 entitled \"Clunk, Click\", which in 1974 featured the UK heats of the \"Eurovision Song Contest\" featuring Olivia Newton-John. After two series, \"Clunk, Click\" was replaced by \"Jim'll Fix It\", which he presented from 1975 to 1994. Savile won an award from Mary Whitehouse's National Viewers' and Listeners' Association in 1977 for his \"wholesome family entertainment\". He fronted a long-running series of advertisements in the early 1980s for British Rail's InterCity 125, in which he declared \"This is the age of the train\". Savile was twice the subject of the Thames Television series \"This Is Your Life\"in January 1970 with Eamonn Andrews and again in December 1990 with Michael Aspel.\n\nIn an interview by Dr Anthony Clare for the radio series \"In the Psychiatrist's Chair\" in 1991, Savile appeared to be \"a man without feelings\". \"There is something chilling about this 20th-century 'saint'\", Clare concluded in 1992 in his introduction to the published transcript of this interview. Andrew Neil interviewed him for the TV series \"Is This Your Life?\" in 1995 where Savile \"used a banana to avoid discussing his personal life\". In 1999 he appeared as a panellist in \"Have I Got News for You\".\n\nIn April 2000, he was the subject of an in-depth documentary by Louis Theroux, in the \"When Louis Met...\" series, in which Theroux accompanied British celebrities going about their daily business and interviewed them about their lives and experiences. In the documentary, Savile confided \"that he used to beat people up and lock them in a basement during his career as a nightclub manager\". When Theroux challenged Savile about rumours of paedophilia over a decade ago, Savile said: “We live in a very funny world. And it's easier for me, as a single man, to say 'I don't like children', because that puts a lot of salacious tabloid people off the hunt.”\n\nSavile visited the \"Celebrity Big Brother\" house on 14 and 15 January 2006 and \"fixed it\" for some housemates to have their wishes granted; Pete Burns received a message from his boyfriend, Michael, and Lynn, his ex-wife, while Dennis Rodman traded Savile's offering for a supply of cigarettes for the other housemates. In 2007, Savile returned to television with \"Jim'll Fix It Strikes Again\" showing some of the most popular fix-its, recreating them with the same people, and making new dreams come true.\n\nSavile is estimated to have raised £40 million for charity. One cause for which he raised money was Stoke Mandeville Hospital, where he volunteered for many years as a porter. He raised money for the Spinal Unit, NSIC (National Spinal Injuries Centre), and St Francis Ward – a ward for children and teens with spinal cord injuries. Savile also volunteered at Leeds General Infirmary and Broadmoor Hospital. In August 1988, he was appointed by junior health minister Edwina Currie chair of an interim task force overseeing the management of Broadmoor Hospital, after its board members had been suspended. Savile had his own room at both Stoke Mandeville and Broadmoor. In 1989, Savile started legal proceedings against News Group Newspapers after the \"News of the World\" published an article, in January 1988, suggesting he had been in a position to secure the release of patients from Broadmoor who were considered \"dangerous\". Savile won on 11 July 1989; News Group paid his legal costs, and he received an apology from editors Kelvin MacKenzie and Patsy Chapman. In 2012, it was reported that Savile had sexually abused vulnerable patients at the hospitals.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1988, Savile was the honorary president of Phab (Physically Handicapped in the Able Bodied community). He sponsored medical students performing undergraduate research in the Leeds University Research Enterprise scholarship scheme, donating more than £60,000 every year. In 2010, the scheme was given a commitment of £500,000 over the following five years. Following Savile's death in October 2011, it was confirmed that a bequest had been made to allow continued support for the programme.\n\nSavile was well known for running marathons (many for Phab, including its annual half marathon around Hyde Park, London). He also cycled from Land's End to John o'Groats in 10 days for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, and ran in the Scottish People's Marathon. It was reported that he completed the London Marathon at the age of 79; rumours that he was driven round in a lead vehicle as an \"observer\", were denied by marathon officials.\n\nSavile set up two charities, the Jimmy Savile Stoke Mandeville Hospital Trust in 1981, and the Leeds-based Jimmy Savile Charitable Trust in 1984. During the sexual abuse scandal in October 2012 the charities announced that they would distribute their funds, of £1.7 million and £3.7 million respectively, among other charities and then close down. He also raised money for several Jewish charities.\n\nDuring his lifetime and at the time of his death, Savile was regarded as \"an eccentric adornment to British public life ... an ubiquitous and distinctive face on television\", who \"relished being in the public eye\" and was \"a shrewd promoter of his own image\". He was famous for his \"bizarre yodel\", and catchphrases which included \"How's about that, then?\", \"Now then, now then\", \"Goodness gracious\", \"As it 'appens\" and \"Guys and gals\". Savile was frequently spoofed for his distinctive appearance, which usually featured a tracksuit or shell suit and gold jewellery. A range of licensed fancy dress costumes was released with his consent in 2009. Savile was often pictured holding a cigar. He claimed to have started smoking cigars at the age of seven, saying \"My dad gave me a drag on one at Christmas, thinking it would put me off them forever, but it had the opposite effect.\"\n\nSavile was a member of Mensa and the Institute of Advanced Motorists and drove a Rolls-Royce. He was made a life member of the British Gypsy Council in 1975, becoming the first \"outsider\" to be made a member. He was chieftain of the Lochaber Highland Games for many years, and owned a house in Glen Coe; his appearance on the final edition of \"Top of the Pops\" in 2006 was pre-recorded as it clashed with the games.\n\nThrough his support of charities, Savile became a friend of Margaret Thatcher, who in 1981 described his work as \"marvellous\". He reportedly spent 11 consecutive New Year's Eves at Chequers with Thatcher and her family, though this was disputed by Thatcher's daughter, Carol. Letters released in December 2012 by the National Archives under the thirty year rule confirm the close friendship between Savile and Thatcher. Some of the correspondence was heavily redacted before publication, using exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act.\n\nIn 1984, he was accepted as a member of the Athenaeum, a gentlemen's club in London's Pall Mall, after being proposed by Cardinal Basil Hume. He met Prince Charles through mutual charity interests, and Charles reportedly sent him gifts on his 80th birthday and a note reading: \"Nobody will ever know what you have done for this country, Jimmy. This is to go some way in thanking you for that.\"\n\nA lifelong bachelor, Savile lived with his mother (whom he referred to as \"The Duchess\") and kept her bedroom and wardrobe exactly as it was when she died. Every year he had her clothes dry cleaned. Savile's personal relationships were rarely the subject of media report or comment in his lifetime. In his autobiography he claimed he had had many sexual relations with women, and that \"there have been trains and, with apologies to the hit parade, boats and planes (I am a member of the 40,000ft club) and bushes and fields, corridors, doorways, floors, chairs, slag heaps, desks and probably everything except the celebrated chandelier and ironing board.\"\n\nOn 9 August 1997, Savile underwent a three-hour quadruple heart-bypass operation at Killingbeck Hospital in Leeds, having known he needed the surgery for at least four years after attending regular check-ups. He arranged for a bench in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, to be dedicated to his memory, with a plaque saying \"Jimmy Savile – but not just yet!\"\n\nSavile was found dead at his home in Roundhay on 29 October 2011, two days before his 85th birthday. He had been in hospital with pneumonia, and his death was not suspicious.\n\nHis closed satin gold coffin was displayed at the Queens Hotel in Leeds, with the last cigar he smoked and his two \"This Is Your Life\" books. Around 4,000 people visited to pay tribute. His funeral took place at Leeds Cathedral on 9 November 2011, and he was buried at Woodlands Cemetery in Scarborough. As specified in his will, his coffin was inclined at 45 degrees to fulfil his wish to \"see the sea\". The coffin was encased in concrete \"as a security measure\".\n\nAn auction of Savile's possessions was conducted at the Royal Armouries Museum, Leeds, on 30 July 2012, with the proceeds going to charity. His silver Rolls-Royce Corniche convertible was sold for £130,000 to an Internet bidder. The vehicle's number plate, JS 247, featured the original medium wave wavelength used by BBC Radio 1 (247 metres).\n\nDuring Savile's lifetime, sporadic allegations of child abuse were made against him dating back to 1963, but these only became widely publicised after his death. Savile claimed the key to his success on \"Jim'll Fix It\" had been that he disliked children, although he later admitted to saying this to deflect scrutiny of his personal life. He did not own a computer, claiming that he did not want anybody to think he was downloading child pornography. His autobiography \"As it Happens\" (1974, reprinted as \"Love is an Uphill Thing\", 1976) contains admissions of improper sexual conduct which appear to have passed unnoticed during his lifetime.\n\nFormer Sex Pistols and Public Image Ltd vocalist John Lydon alluded to sordid conduct committed by Savile, as well as suppression of widely held knowledge about such activity, in an October 1978 interview recorded for BBC Radio 1. Lydon stated: \"I'd like to kill Jimmy Savile; I think he's a hypocrite. I bet he's into all kinds of seediness that we all know about, but are not allowed to talk about. I know some rumours.\" He added: \"I bet none of this will be allowed out.\" As predicted, the comment was edited out by the BBC prior to broadcasting, but the complete interview was included as a bonus track on a re-release of Public Image Ltd's 1978 debut album \"\" in 2013, after Savile's death. In October 2014, Lydon expanded on his original quote, saying: \"By killed I meant locking him up and stopping him assaulting young children... I'm disgusted at the media pretending they weren't aware.\"\n\nFormer professional wrestler Adrian Street described in a November 2013 interview how \"Savile used to go on and on about the young girls who’d wait in line for him outside his dressing room ... He'd pick the ones he wanted and say to the rest, 'Unlucky, come back again tomorrow night'.\" Savile, who cultivated a \"tough guy\" image promoted by his entourage, was attacked with legitimate strikes during a 1971 bout with Street, who commented that had he \"known then the full extent of what I know about [Savile] now, I’d have given him an even bigger hiding – were that physically possible.\"\n\nIn a 1990 interview for \"The Independent on Sunday\", Lynn Barber asked Savile about rumours that he liked \"little girls\". Savile's reply was that, as he worked in the pop music business, \"...the young girls in question don't gather round me because of me – it's because I know the people they love, the stars... I am of no interest to them.\" In April 2000, in a documentary by Louis Theroux, \"When Louis Met... Jimmy\", Savile acknowledged \"salacious tabloid people\" had raised rumours about whether he was a paedophile, and said, \"I know I'm not.\" A follow-up documentary, \"Louis Theroux: Savile\", about Savile and Theroux's inability to dig more deeply, aired on BBC Two in 2016.\n\nIn 2007, Savile was interviewed under caution by police investigating an allegation of indecent assault in the 1970s at the now-closed Duncroft Approved School for Girls near Staines, Surrey, where he was a regular visitor. The Crown Prosecution Service advised there was insufficient evidence to take any further action and no charges were brought. In March 2008, Savile started legal proceedings against \"The Sun\", which had linked him in several articles to child abuse at the Jersey children's home Haut de la Garenne. He denied visiting Haut de la Garenne, but later admitted he had done so following the publication of a photograph showing him at the home surrounded by children. The States of Jersey Police said that in 2008 an allegation of an indecent assault by Savile at the home in the 1970s had been investigated, but there had been insufficient evidence to proceed. In 2009, in a taped interview with his biographer, Savile defended pop star Gary Glitter, convicted in 1999 of possession of child pornography, whom he described as a celebrity being vilified for watching \"dodgy films\": \"It were for his own gratification. Whether it was right or wrong is up to him as a person... they [viewers] didn't do anything wrong but they are then demonised.\" The interview was not published at the time, and the recording was not released until after Savile's death.\n\nIn 2012, Sir Roger Jones, a former BBC governor for Wales and chairman of BBC charity \"Children in Need\", disclosed that more than a decade before Savile's death he had banned Savile from involvement in the charity, because he felt his behaviour was \"strange\" and \"suspicious\", and had heard unsubstantiated rumours about his activities. Former Royal Family press secretary Dickie Arbiter said Savile's behaviour had raised \"concern and suspicion\" when Savile acted as an informal marriage counsellor between Prince Charles and Princess Diana in the late 1980s, although no reports had been made.\n\nImmediately after Savile's death, the BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme began an investigation into reports that he was a sexual abuser. Meirion Jones and Liz MacKean interviewed one victim on camera and others agreed to have their stories told. The interviewees alleged abuse at Duncroft approved school for girls in Staines, Stoke Mandeville Hospital and the BBC. The item was scheduled for broadcast in \"Newsnight\" on 7 December 2011, but was never shown; the BBC broadcast tributes to Savile at Christmas 2011. \"Newsnight\" also discovered that Surrey Police had investigated allegations of abuse against Savile. In December 2012, a review led by Nick Pollard of the BBC's handling of the issue described the decision not to broadcast the \"Newsnight\" investigation as \"flawed\". The review said that Jones and MacKean had found \"cogent evidence\" that Savile was an abuser. George Entwistle – at that time the Director of BBC Vision – who had been told about the plan to broadcast the \"Newsnight\" item, was described by the review as \"unnecessarily cautious, and an opportunity was lost\".\n\nThere was no public mention of the \"Newsnight\" investigation into Savile at the time but in early 2012, several newspapers reported that the BBC had investigated but not broadcast (its report of) allegations of sexual abuse immediately after his death. \"The Oldie\" alleged there had been a cover-up by the BBC.\n\nOn 28 September 2012, almost a year after his death, ITV said it would broadcast a documentary, \"Exposure: The Other Side of Jimmy Savile\". The documentary, presented by Mark Williams-Thomas, who had been a consultant on the original \"Newsnight\" investigation, revealed claims by up to 10 women, including one aged under 14 at the time, that they had been sexually molested or raped by Savile during the 1960s and 1970s. The announcement attracted national attention, and more reports and claims of abuse against him accumulated. The documentary was broadcast on 3 October. The next day, the Metropolitan Police said the Child Abuse Investigation Command would assess the allegations.\n\nBy 19 October 2012, police were pursuing 400 lines of inquiry based on testimony from 200 witnesses via 14 police forces across the UK. They described the alleged abuse as \"on an unprecedented scale\", and the number of potential victims as \"staggering\". Investigations, codenamed Operation Yewtree, were opened to identify criminal conduct related to Savile's activities by the Metropolitan Police, and to review the 2009 decision by the Crown Prosecution Service to drop a prosecution as \"unlikely to succeed.\" By 25 October, police reported the number of possible victims was approaching 300.\n\nOn 12 November 2012, the Metropolitan Police announced the scale of sexual allegations reported against Savile was \"unprecedented\" in Britain: a total of 450 alleged victims had contacted the police in the ten weeks since the investigation was launched. Officers recorded 199 crimes in 17 police force areas in which Savile was a suspect, among them 31 allegations of rape in seven force areas. Analysis of the report showed 82% of those who came forward to report abuse were female and 80% were children or young people at the time of the incidents. Broadmoor staff members claimed that Savile had told them that he engaged in necrophiliac acts with corpses in their mortuary in Leeds; Savile was friends with the chief mortician, who gave him near-unrestricted access.\n\nThe developing scandal led to inquiries into practices at the BBC and the National Health Service. It was alleged that rumours of Savile's activities had circulated at the BBC in the 1960s and 1970s, but no action had been taken. The Director-General of the BBC, George Entwistle, apologised for what had happened, and on 16 October 2012 appointed former High Court judge Dame Janet Smith to review the culture and practices of the BBC during the time Savile worked there; and Nick Pollard, a former Sky News executive, was appointed to look at why the \"Newsnight\" investigation into Savile's activities was dropped shortly before transmission in December 2011.\n\nOn 22 October 2012, the BBC programme \"Panorama\" broadcast an investigation into \"Newsnight\" and found evidence suggesting \"senior manager\" pressure; on the same day \"Newsnight\" editor Peter Rippon \"stepped down\" with immediate effect. The Department of Health appointed former barrister Kate Lampard to chair and oversee its investigations into Savile's activities at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Leeds General Infirmary, Broadmoor Hospital and other hospitals and facilities in England.\n\n\"Exposure Update: The Jimmy Savile Investigation\" was shown on ITV on 21 November 2012.\n\nIn March 2013 Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary reported that 214 of the complaints that had been made against Savile after his death would have been criminal offences if they had been reported at the time. Sixteen victims reported being raped by Savile when they were under 16 (the age of heterosexual consent in England) and four of those had been under the age of 10. Thirteen others reported serious sexual assaults by Savile, including four who had been under 10 years old. Another ten victims reported being raped by Savile after the age of 16.\n\nWithin a month of the child abuse scandal emerging, many places and organisations named after or connected to Savile were renamed or had his name removed. A memorial plaque on the wall of Savile's former home in Scarborough was removed in early October 2012 after it was defaced with graffiti. A wooden statue of Savile at Scotstoun Leisure Centre in Glasgow was also removed around the same time. A sign on a footpath in Scarborough bearing Savile's surname was removed. Savile's Hall, the conference centre at the Royal Armouries Museum in Leeds, was renamed New Dock Hall. Two registered charities founded in his name to fight \"poverty and sickness and other charitable purposes\" announced they were too closely tied to his name to be sustainable and would close and distribute their funds to other charities, so as to avoid harm to beneficiaries from future media attention. On 28 October it was reported that Savile's cottage in Glen Coe had been vandalised with spray-paint and the door damaged. The cottage was sold in May 2013.\n\nOn 9 October 2012, relatives said the headstone of Savile's grave would be removed, destroyed and sent to landfill. The Savile family expressed their sorrow for the \"anguish\" of the victims and \"respect [for] public opinion\". Savile's body is interred in the cemetery in Scarborough, although it has been proposed that it be exhumed and cremated.\n\nSavile's estate, believed to be worth about £4 million, was frozen by its executors, the NatWest bank, in view of the possibility that those alleging that they had been assaulted by Savile could make claims for damages. After \"a range of expenses\" were charged to the estate, a remainder of about £3.3 million was available to compensate victims, with those victims not having a claim against another entity (such as the BBC or the National Health Service) given first priority, and all victims limited to a maximum claim of £60,000 against all entities combined, a compensation scheme approved by the courts.\n\nAn authorised biography, \"How's About That Then?\", by Alison Bellamy, was published in June 2012. After the claims made against him were published, the author said that, in the light of the allegations, she felt \"let down and betrayed\" by Savile.\n\nOn 26 June 2014, UK Secretary of State for Health Jeremy Hunt delivered a public apology in the House of Commons to the patients of the National Health Service abused by Savile. He confirmed that complaints had been raised before 2012 but were ignored by the bureaucratic system:\n\nPsychologist Oliver James, in a 2014 piece for \"The Guardian\", wrote that Savile had the dark triad of personality characteristics: psychopathy, Machiavellianism and narcissism. Richard Harrison, a long-serving psychiatric nurse at Broadmoor Hospital, said in 2012 that Savile had long been regarded by staff as \"a man with a severe personality disorder and a liking for children\". Another nurse, Bob Allen, agreed with assessments of Savile as a psychopath, and stated: \"A lot of the staff said he should be behind bars.\" Allen also said that he had once reported Savile to his supervisor for apparent improper conduct with a juvenile, but no action was taken.\n\n\nMany honours are considered to cease on the death of the holder; some of Savile's honours were considered no longer applicable, and did not need to be rescinded. In other cases honours were withdrawn, or removed from lists:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48576879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48576879", "title": "Kora Entertainment", "text": "Kora Entertainment\n\nKora Entertainment is a Burundian record label founded in 2012 by Nzeyimana Ismail (Kent-P). The label is home to recording artists such as Happy Famba, Sat-B, Best Life Music.\nAfter being successful in the music industry Kent-P and Sat-B decided to recruit other artist to grow. Kora Entertainment has become number one record label in Burundi by having the most Top artist.\n\nFounded as a webTV in 2012.\nKora Entertainment has signed number of artistes from Burundi who have successfully got their music across Africa and some of them even being nominated on Kora Awards, Afrimma, Afrima.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586361", "title": "Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent", "text": "Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent\n\nLaw & Order: Criminal Intent is an American police procedural television drama series set in New York City, where it was also primarily produced. Created and produced by Dick Wolf and René Balcer, the series premiered on September 30, 2001, as the third series in Wolf's successful \"Law & Order\" franchise. \"Criminal Intent\" focuses on the investigations of the Major Case Squad in a fictionalized version of the New York City Police Department set in New York City's One Police Plaza. In the style of the original \"Law & Order\", episodes are often \"ripped from the headlines\" or loosely based on a real crime that received media attention.\n\nThe series aired on NBC for the first six seasons but was moved to the NBCUniversal-owned USA Network starting with the seventh season to share costs and due to declining ratings. During its NBC run, each episode aired on USA the week after its original NBC airing. The 10th and final season premiered on Sunday, May 1, 2011, at 9 p.m. EDT with original cast members Vincent D'Onofrio and Kathryn Erbe starring as Detectives Robert Goren and Alexandra Eames, respectively, and featuring Jay O. Sanders as Captain Joseph Hannah. The series ended on June 26, 2011, after 10 seasons comprising 195 episodes.\n\n\"Criminal Intent\" follows a division of the New York City Police Department, the \"Major Case Squad\", a force of brilliant and skilled first-grade detectives who handle the most serious and the most complex crimes that New York has to offer. The Major Case Squad investigates high-profile cases (in most cases, murder, kidnappings or major robberies) such as those involving VIPs, local government officials and employees, the financial industry, and the art world.\n\nThe series is notable for its heavy focus on the motives and actions of the criminals, supplemented with scenes of the suspects in their own lives, parallel to the investigation. Each episode features a cold open of the victim and suspects in the days leading up to the crime; these scenes are out of context to maintain suspense as to the perpetrator's identity and motive until the ensuing investigation reveals their involvement. However, some episodes reveal the killer at the start but leave out other key details for the detectives to uncover. Unlike other \"Law & Order\" series, most \"Criminal Intent\" episodes end in the detectives eliciting confessions rather than continuing to the trial phase.\n\nSeasons 1–4 and 10 focus on Detectives Robert \"Bobby\" Goren and Alexandra Eames as the primary detectives in every episode. In seasons 5–8, \"Criminal Intent\" episodes then typically alternated between the team of Goren and Eames and a team composed of veteran Detective Michael \"Mike\" Logan and his partners: Carolyn Barek, Megan Wheeler, and Nola Falacci. After season 7, Mike Logan retired from the NYPD and was replaced with Detective Zack Nichols until season 10, when Goren and Eames returned.\n\nThe UK-aired version of \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" features the song \"There's Only Me\" by Rob Dougan in the opening credits (seasons 1–5). Another Rob Dougan track, \"I'm Not Driving Anymore\", is used as the theme for \"Law & Order\" and \"\". From season 6 the UK-aired version theme is \"Urban Warfare\" by Paul Dinletir.\n\n\"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" was created in 2001 by René Balcer and Dick Wolf. Balcer served as the show's executive producer, showrunner, and head writer for its first five seasons. The show dominated its original time slot on Sundays at 9:00 p.m. for its first three seasons (routinely beating its competition, ABC's \"Alias\" and HBO's \"The Sopranos\", in households and in the 18–49 demographic), and was often the highest-rated show of the night, with an average audience of 15.5 million viewers. The show aired Sundays on NBC, with each week's episode being repeated on USA Network the following Saturday.\n\nBeginning in Season 4, it faced stiff new competition from ABC's night-time soap opera \"Desperate Housewives\", a show that soon became the No. 1 drama on television. Although ratings for \"Criminal Intent\" further eroded in season 5 amid stiff competition, the series maintained respectable ratings through the season, enough to get it renewed for a sixth season on NBC.\n\nBalcer left the show at the end of Season 5, and the show was handed off to Warren Leight, a longtime \"Criminal Intent\" staffer. Under Leight's leadership, the show acquired a new, more melodramatic tone. The mystery aspect of the show was simplified in favor of more personal stories involving the detectives. For example, Goren endured his mother's long battle with cancer, culminating with her death in Goren's last episode in season six. The show's look and editing style also changed in an effort to attract viewers of the newer \"CSI\" franchise.\n\nWhen NBC had acquired the rights to \"Sunday Night Football\" for the 2006–2007 season, \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" was moved to a new time slot on Tuesdays at 9:00 p.m., to serve as a lead-in to fellow \"Law & Order\" spinoff, \"\". For its first six airings, it faced CBS's \"The Unit\" and baseball on Fox. In late October, Fox's hit series \"House\" moved opposite \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\". It was hoped that the show could maintain second position, beating the then-marginal \"The Unit\" but that did not occur. The show's ratings suffered a steep drop and regularly finished fourth in its time slot. By the end of Season 6, \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" saw its lowest ratings ever.\n\nIn May 2007, NBC faced a choice of renewing either \"Criminal Intent\" or the original \"Law & Order\", which had seen a ratings increase in the last few episodes of its 17th season. Ultimately, because of \"Criminal Intent's\" weak ratings, NBC picked up \"Law & Order\". \"Criminal Intent\"s new episodes were moved to the NBCUniversal-owned USA Network, where it could be expected to attract a much larger audience than the cable channel's average. The remaining episodes from the seventh season began running on June 8, 2008. Production on the show was halted temporarily in December 2007 due to the writers' strike.\n\nFor its move to the USA Network, the version of the \"Law & Order\" theme used for the show's opening credits was replaced by the version originally used on the short-lived \"\".\n\nOn May 22, 2008, USA Network renewed \"Criminal Intent\" for an eighth season. Season 7 was the top-rated television series on basic cable, having more than quadrupled the audience for the 10 p.m. Thursday slot on USA Network when compared to the ratings from the previous year. Nielsen ratings for the week of July 13, 2008 showed that \"Criminal Intent\" was ranked sixth overall on top 20 cable ratings, with a viewer base of 4.899 million viewers. The network ordered 16 episodes, which were originally to begin broadcasting in November 2008, but the network moved the premiere back, first to February 5, 2009, then with an expected date of spring–summer 2009, and finally announcing the start date as April 19. The only change in cast members from the seventh season was Chris Noth's departure and replacement by Jeff Goldblum. At the end of Season 7, Leight, who left to focus on \"In Treatment\", was replaced by new executive producers Walon Green and Robert Nathan. In December 2008, Nathan left the show after completing two Goldblum episodes. \"Law & Order\" co-executive producer and writer Ed Zuckerman then picked up Nathan's assignment while continuing his duties for the original \"Law & Order\"s 19th season. Michael Chernuchin co-executive produced Green's episodes, and Tim Lea co-executive produced Zuckerman's episodes. Other executive producers on the series were Norberto Barba, Peter Jankowski, Diana Son, Julie Martin, and Arthur W. Forney. Charlie Rubin was the supervising producer, and Balcer, Eric Overmyer, and Siobhan Byrne O'Connor were consulting producers. In April 2009, NBC began airing \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" Season 8 encores a few days after they premiered on USA.\n\nD'Onofrio, Erbe, and Bogosian left the series in the Season 9 premiere, which aired in two parts on March 30 and April 6, 2010. Walon Green, Peter Jankowski, John David Coles, and Dick Wolf were the executive producers for the of \"Criminal Intent\".\n\nMedia outlets reported in August 2010 that actor Jeff Goldblum (Detective Zachary Nichols) had decided to leave the cast of \"Law & Order: CI\", citing concerns about the show's future. The option to return on all the actors formally expired on July 31, 2010 after being extended by a month on June 30, 2010 when they were originally up. A final decision by the USA Network over whether the series would be renewed for another season had not been announced at that time.\n\nOn September 22, 2010, \"Variety\" announced that \"Criminal Intent\" had been renewed, and that Vincent D'Onofrio would be returning to the series as Detective Robert Goren for its final season. Kathryn Erbe subsequently signed on to reprise the role of Detective Eames for the eight-episode final season of \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\". Chris Brancato was announced as the executive producer/showrunner for the of \"Law & Order: CI\". Brancato succeeded Walon Green, who served as the showrunner during the eighth and ninth seasons.\n\nPrior to the season premiere, creator Dick Wolf was hoping the series would be renewed for an 11th season, versus ending with season 10. \"Being the unbridled optimist that I am, I still have hope that this is a 'victory lap' and not a 'swan song,'\" Wolf said during a conference call. \"Based on the work so far, I think the audience is going to be very happy, relieved, and welcoming ... and hopefully enough fans will come out so the powers-that-be reconsider their decision.\" New show runner/EP Chris Brancato suggested that the show could be picked up for an 11th season if the intended final episodes garnered sufficient ratings. The tenth season ended on June 26, 2011, and USA Network announced the following month that they were choosing not to air more episodes of the series due to costs. When asked if \"LOCI\" would be taken back by NBC, Wolf tweeted \"USA Network decided not to pick up #LOCI for another season. We hoped ratings & fans could change their mind but. ... I've learned to never say never but most execs are looking for something new. We truly appreciate our loyal fans! Thank you.\"\n\nIn August 2012, it was announced that Kathryn Erbe would be playing her character Alexandra Eames again in \"'s\" . Detective Eames transferred out of Major Case, and is now working for a joint City/Federal Homeland Security Task Force, and crosses paths with the SVU squad when their investigation of a sex trafficking ring uncovers a connection to terrorists. Erbe will likely guest star in more \"SVU\" episodes later in the fourteenth season. Warren Leight, who now is show runner/executive producer on \"Law & Order: SVU\", tweeted that Erbe's first episode would be the fourth of the season, \"\".\n\nIn February 2013, Warren Leight further tweeted on \"LOCI's\" ending, \"... simply put, USA didn't make enough money on LOCI to justify even the final 8 [episodes] they did. they felt they owed it to the fans. ... And they certainly showed LOCI more loyalty than NBC did the Mothership.\" Leight further tweeted, \"I think fans should enjoy the long run we had, and maybe hope for a MadeForTV movie if anyone ever makes those in future.\"\n\nStarting September 2017, series lead Vincent D'Onofrio (Detective Goren), show runner/executive producer Warren Leight, Julie Martin, and director/executive producer Norberto Barba have begun using their Twitter accounts to re-tweet tweets aimed at ION Television with the hashtag: #BringBackLOCI. Season seven co-star Alicia Witt (Detective Falacci) also sent a re-tweeted reply to a tweet that praised her portrayal and her character, saying, \"Aww thank you. I have always wanted to revisit Falacci one day- loved being there during JN's [Julianne Nicholson's] maternity leave but want to play her again!\"\n\nThe show originally aired on Sunday nights at 9:00 p.m. ET on NBC for the first five seasons, from September 30, 2001 through May 14, 2006. It was then shifted to Tuesday nights at 9 p.m. ET on September 19, 2006, and remained in that time slot through the end of Season 6 on May 21, 2007. \"CI\" was then moved to the USA Network for its 7th season and aired Thursday nights at 9:00 p.m. starting October 4, 2007 until the fall finale in December 2007. It was then moved to Sunday nights at 9:00 p.m. ET on June 8, 2008 (when it paired up with \"In Plain Sight\") until the 8th-season finale on August 9, 2009. For the ninth season only, the series moved to a new day and timeslot, Tuesday nights at 10:00 p.m. ET. During the tenth and final season, the series went back to Sundays at 9:00 p.m. ET on USA Network.\n\nAfter the show moved to USA, NBC re-aired episodes from the most recent season during the summer months. Reruns also air frequently on Bravo, USA Network, Universal HD, WGN America, Cloo, Oxygen, ION Television, WE tv, and in syndication on local stations.\n\nOn September 30, 2001, NBC premiered the show, starring Vincent D'Onofrio as Detective Robert Goren, a junior detective in the Major Case Squad who has a degree in psychology and has a knack for solving difficult crimes, and Kathryn Erbe as his partner, Detective Alexandra Eames, a veteran detective from an NYPD family who initially resists her partner's eccentric style, but grows to understand him as the series progresses. Before joining the NYPD Goren was a Special Agent with the United States Army's Criminal Investigations Division. Jamey Sheridan plays Captain James Deakins; although Deakins's first priority is the success of criminal investigations, he is often forced to rein in and protect his more maverick detectives, especially Goren and later Logan, to manage the bad publicity they occasionally attract. While this creates some friction between Deakins and his detectives, for the most part they respect his professional judgment and authority. Courtney B. Vance's Assistant District Attorney Ron Carver is frequently in conflict with all the detectives because they tend to rely on hunches and instinct, when he wants more hard evidence. Despite this conflict, however, he has a strong working relationship with both teams.\n\nIn the third season, from episodes 5–11, Eames is temporarily replaced by Detective G. Lynn Bishop portrayed by Samantha Buck. Eames is volunteering to serve as a surrogate mother for her sister's baby; in reality, Erbe was pregnant with her second child.\n\nIn the fifth season, Chris Noth joined the cast, reprising his role as Detective Mike Logan from the original \"Law & Order\". Noth alternates the starring role every other episode with D'Onofrio, and is partnered with Annabella Sciorra as Detective Carolyn Barek. Sciorra left after one season.\n\nDeakins retires from the Major Case Squad at the end of Season 5 rather than battle a conspiracy to frame him instigated by former Chief of Detectives Frank Adair, whom Major Case detectives have arrested for killing a female acquaintance and her husband. Carver leaves as well, though there is no explanation as to why he departed the ADA's office.\n\nDeakins was replaced by Captain Danny Ross (Eric Bogosian). Carver was initially replaced by ADA Patricia Kent (Theresa Randle), although she appears in only two episodes. The ADA role from this point on is left vacant, as the detectives aren't shown working with any ADA on a regular basis.\n\nJulianne Nicholson replaced Annabella Sciorra as Detective Megan Wheeler, who remains with the show through the end of the eighth season.\n\nIn season 7, Wheeler temporarily leaves MCS to go to Europe, where she teaches a course on American police procedure. In reality, Julianne Nicholson was pregnant with her first child and was replaced temporarily by Alicia Witt, playing Detective Nola Falacci.\n\nNoth left the series at the . He was replaced by Jeff Goldblum as Detective Zack Nichols. The series was renewed for a ninth season, which began in March 2010 and marked the departure of D'Onofrio, Erbe, and Bogosian. Ross is murdered in the first half of the season premiere, while Eames fires Goren in the second half and then quits the NYPD. Goldblum was the head of the series with new partner Detective Serena Stevens, played by Saffron Burrows. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio succeeded Bogosian, portraying Captain Zoe Callas.\n\nThe final season featured the return of Detectives Alexandra Eames and Robert Goren, replacing outgoing Zack Nichols and Serena Stevens who made their final appearances in the season 9 finale. Eames and Goren are brought back at the request of Joseph Hannah, played by Jay O. Sanders, the new Major Case Captain who replaced Zoe Callas, on the condition that Goren attend mandatory psych sessions with brilliant police doctor Paula Gyson, played by Julia Ormond. The final season consisted of eight episodes, all featuring D'Onofrio, Erbe, Sanders and Ormond.\n\n\"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s seasons 1–5 aired on NBC on Sunday nights at 9pm EST. Season 6 aired on NBC on Tuesday nights at 9pm EST. In October 2007, new episodes of season 7 aired on the USA Network on Thursday nights at 9pm EST. In June 2008 the remaining episodes of the seventh season until the end of the eighth season aired on Sunday nights at 9pm EST on USA. Starting on January 9, 2008, reruns of season 7 began airing on NBC and May 6, 2009, reruns of season 8 began airing on NBC. \"Criminal Intent's\" season finale aired August 9, 2009. June 20, 2010, reruns of season 9 began airing on Sunday nights on NBC. The show moved to Tuesday nights at 10pm EST on USA as of the ninth season which premiered on March 30, 2010 and ended July 6, 2010. The show returned to Sunday nights at 9pm EST on USA for the tenth and final season when it premiered May 1, 2011.\n\n\"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" aired for ten seasons and 195 episodes, which aired between September 30, 2001 and June 26, 2011. Seasons one through seven each consisted of 21 to 23 episodes, seasons eight and nine each consisted of 16, and season ten consisted of 8; each episode lasts approximately sixty minutes including commercials (approx. 43 without commercials).\nUniversal Studios Home Entertainment has released \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" on DVD in Regions 1, 2 and 4. Seasons 1-5 have been released in both Region 2 and Region 4.\n\nIn April 2012, it was announced that Shout! Factory had acquired the rights to the series in Region 1. They subsequently released season 7 on DVD on June 26, 2012. Season 8 was released on October 23, 2012 with Season 9 on December 11, 2012 and Season 10 on March 12, 2013.\n\n\n\"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" has been produced in 16:9 format since at least 2004, when it was first broadcast in HDTV. Standard definition NBC stations aired the episodes cropped to 4:3 until 2006, when all \"Law & Order\" series began airing episodes in 16:9 for SD. Reruns of those episodes which were cropped to 4:3 have subsequently been aired in 16:9 as well. Some broadcasters outside the USA, however, still use versions cropped to 4:3.\n\nThe show has been recorded on 35mm film with the use of motion cameras for the first eight seasons, the first five seasons the series' on set lighting was very dim, with the sixth season scenes on set were brightened until season eight. At the commencement of season nine, the camera department switched to digital video acquisition. The lighting in the MCS squad room also received a significant change. The series has always relied heavily on color corrected fluorescent lighting which contributed to its drab and bluish look. At the beginning of season nine, sections of the MCS ceiling were removed and banks of incandescent lighting strips were added to steepen the warmer, sunny day look of the drab squad room. In the tenth season, the lighting in interrogation room senses were brightened to their color in the sixth and seventh seasons.\n\nStarting with the sixth season, the editing style changed apart from the other shows in the \"Law & Order\" franchise (examples: zooms, colors, and thud sounds used to quickly fade to commercials, quick brighting effects and sharp sounds to show scene changes) and the tempo of the background music was amplified and at a faster pace.\n\nDuring the first season of \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\", several cast members from the original series made guest appearances as their \"Law & Order\" characters. Dianne Wiest appeared in the first episode of the series, \"One\", Jerry Orbach and Jesse L. Martin guest starred in the episode \"Poison\", S. Epatha Merkerson appeared in the episode \"Badge\", and J.K. Simmons appeared in the episode \"Crazy.\" Leslie Hendrix also reprises her role as Medical Examiner Dr. Elizabeth Rodgers as a recurring character throughout the run of the series starting with the first-season episode \"The Faithful.\" In 2005, Chris Noth reprised his role as Detective Mike Logan for the show's fourth season. This appearance led to Noth joining the cast in the fifth season, appearing in the starring role for half the episodes of the season. Noth remained with the show for three seasons before departing in 2008. Also appearing during the show's fifth season were Fred Dalton Thompson and Carolyn McCormick.\n\nOn June 15, 2008, Mary McCormack made a guest appearance in the 2008 episode \"\", as Mary Shannon, her character from \"In Plain Sight\". At the time of the original airing, \"In Plain Sight\" followed \"Criminal Intent\" on the USA Network.\n\nIn the 14th season of \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\", Kathryn Erbe reprised her role as Alexandra Eames in the episodes \"Acceptable Loss\" and \"Poisoned Motive\". Also in this season Denis O'Hare guest starred as his character Father Shea from the episode in the episode \"Presumed Guilty\".\n\n\"Jo\", a 2013 series created by René Balcer, featured in what would be its last episode Olivia d'Abo playing her Nicole Wallace character.\n\nIn July 2005, NBC Universal sold the format of \"Law & Order: Criminal Intent\" to French channel TF1 Alma Productions to create a French remake of the show. The show mirrors the content of the original US stories, although it is set in Paris and is adjusted for language and culture. The show ran for 20 episodes over three seasons between May 2007 to November 2008.\n\nA Russian version of \"L&O: CI\" (shot in Moscow with Russian actors) premiered in March 2007, where it was shown back to back with the Russian version of \"\", to become one of Russia's top-rated series. As a result, the initial order of eight episodes has been expanded to some 40 episodes. The show is entitled Закон и порядок. Преступный умысел (Translation - Law & Order: Criminal Intent)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16877534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16877534", "title": "Le Martyre de saint Sébastien", "text": "Le Martyre de saint Sébastien\n\nLe Martyre de saint Sébastien is a five-act musical mystery play on the subject of Saint Sebastian, with a text written in 1911 by the Italian author Gabriele D'Annunzio and incidental music by the French composer Claude Debussy (L.124).\n\nThe work was produced in collaboration between Gabriele D'Annunzio (at that time living in France to escape his creditors) and Claude Debussy, and designed as a vehicle for Ida Rubinstein. Debussy's contribution was a large-scale score of incidental music for orchestra and chorus, with solo vocal parts (for a soprano and two altos).\n\nDebussy accepted the commission in February 1911. Some of the material was orchestrated by André Caplet. During auditions for the female semi-chorus, the chorus director Désiré-Émile Inghelbrecht suggested, on hearing Ninon Vallin, that she take over the role of the celestial voice. As Rose Féart (who had been engaged) was absent from the general rehearsal, Vallin sang the role and Debussy insisted on her singing it in the production.\n\nThe premiere had sets and costumes designed by Léon Bakst, stage direction by Armand Bour and choreography by Michel Fokine. The orchestra was conducted by André Caplet, and Désiré-Émile Inghelbrecht directed the chorus. Alongside Rubinstein as Saint Sébastien, Adeline Dudlay sang La Mère douloureuse, Vera Sargine sang La Fille malade des fièvres, Ninon Vallin was the off-stage voice, Desjardins was the emperor, and Henry Krauss was the préfet.\n\nThough the first Gabriel Astruc production was attended by scandal (the Archbishop of Paris requested Catholics not attend because the dancer playing St. Sebastian was a woman and a Jew), the work was not successful and did not enter the repertoire; thanks to Debussy's score, however, it has been recorded in abridged and adapted versions several times—notably by Pierre Monteux (in French), Charles Munch (in French), Leonard Bernstein (sung in French, acted in English), and Michael Tilson Thomas (in French).\n\nThough Debussy's complete score still exists and can be performed in its original form (including linking narration taken from the original play, if the story is not staged), the work is very seldom heard in this way. More often performed is a four-movement orchestral suite made up of music extracted from the score and subtitled 'Fragments Symphoniques' (\"Symphonic Fragments\"). In addition, there are also two short brass fanfares which are sometimes presented with the symphonic fragments.\n\nFollowing the acts of the original play, each section is called a 'mansion'. The narrator sets the scene at the beginning of each section.\n\n\nThe work has been recorded several times, in abridged format or with the symphonic music only. The orchestral version, arranged by Caplet, is generally described as \"Fragments symphoniques\", and was published in 1912. Conductors who have recorded this version have included Jean Martinon, Daniel Barenboim and Esa-Pekka Salonen.\n\nIn 1953 the first full recording appeared, by the Oklahoma City Symphony Orchestra and Chorale, with soloists Frances Yeend and Miriam Stewart, sopranos, and Anna Kaskas, contralto, conducted by Victor Alessandro. \n\nIn the same year almost the complete score was recorded for Decca by Suzanne Danco, Nancy Waugh, Lise de Montmollin, Union Chorale de la Tour-de-Peilz (Chorus master Robert Mermoud), and the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande under Ernest Ansermet; digital remastering at Naxos. In the 1960s, Leonard Bernstein adapted the text and recorded the work with his wife, Felicia Montealegre, in the role of Sebastian, and the actor Fritz Weaver as narrator and assuming other speaking roles, with the New York Philharmonic, along with Adele Addison, Virginia Babikian, Marlena Kleinman, Joanna Simon, and The Choral Art Society. The work was given with Bernstein's English-language translation of the D'Annunzio text, with some added narration. \n\nIn 1991 it was recorded digitally with soloists Ann Murray, Sylvia McNair, Nathalie Stutzmann, narrator Leslie Caron and the London Symphony Orchestra and Chorus conducted by Michael Tilson Thomas. In 2011 Thierry Fischer, conducting the BBC National Chorus and Orchestra of Wales, recorded the complete score. According to the CD booklet, the latter recording uses the \"definitive scholarly version\" of the score by Durand (2009), edited by Pierre Boulez and Eko Kasaba.\n"}
{"id": "21425317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425317", "title": "List of concerts in Hyde Park", "text": "List of concerts in Hyde Park\n\nHyde Park in London, England, has been an important venue for rock music concerts since the late 1960s. The music management company Blackhill Enterprises held the first rock concert there on 29 June 1968, attended by 15,000 people. On the bill were Pink Floyd, Roy Harper and Jethro Tull. The supergroup Blind Faith (featuring Eric Clapton and Steve Winwood) played their debut gig in Hyde Park on 7 June 1969. The Rolling Stones headlined a concert (later released as The Stones in the Park) on 5 July that year, two days after the death of founding member Brian Jones, and is now remembered as one of the most famous gigs of the 1960s. The early gigs from 1968–71 were free events, while later concerts were pay-to-enter. \n\nThe park has also played host to many music festivals, including Party in the Park between 1998 and 2004, The Wireless Festival between 2005 and 2012, Hard Rock Calling between 2006 and 2012, Radio 2 Live in Hyde Park since 2011 and Barclaycard presents British Summer Time since 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "26105897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105897", "title": "Mandi Shivaratri Fair", "text": "Mandi Shivaratri Fair\n\nMandi Shivaratri Fair (Hindi:मण्डी शिवरात्री मेला) is an annual renowned international fair that is held for 7 days starting with the Hindu festival of Shivaratri, in the Mandi town () of the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. \n\nThe Mandi Shivaratri fair is held as per Hindu calendar every year on the Krishna paksha 13th day/13th night (breaking fast/'vrata' on 14th after sunrise) of the waning moon in the month of Phalguna that corresponds to February/March as per Gregorian calendar. The festival’s popularity is widespread and hence is known as an international festival. In view of the large number of gods and goddesses that are invited to the festival from its 81 temples, Mandi town has the title of 'Varanasi of the Hills'. During 2016, the festival will be celebrated from 7 March (Shivaratri day) for seven days till 14 March 2016.\n\nThe Mandi festival or fair is particularly famous as the special fair transforms Mandi town into a venue of grand celebration when all gods and goddesses, said to be more than 200 deities of the Mandi district assemble here, starting with the day of Shivaratri. Mandi town located on the banks of the Beas River, popularly known as the \"cathedral of temples\", is one of the oldest towns of Himachal Pradesh with about 81 temples of different gods and goddesses in its periphery. There are several legends linked to the celebration of this event. The festival is centred on the protector deity of Mandi \"Mado Rai\" (Lord Vishnu) and Lord Shiva of the Bhootnath temple in Mandi.\n\nMandi town, where the festival is held, was ruled by Raja Ajbar Sen who was considered the first great ruler of Mandi State in the sixteenth century, since he not only combined the hereditary regions but also added to it by conquering new areas. Apart from his palace, he built the temple of Bhootnath (temple for Shiva) at the centre of the Mandi town, which is one of the two focal temples of the festival.\nIn the theocratic state that evolved during this period, worship of Shiva and related goddesses was dominant. However, the theocratic nature of the state received special emphasis when, during Raja Suraj Sen’s reign, Vishnu worship also became integral to the State. Raja Suraj Sen (1664 to 1679), who did not have an heir, built the temple known as \"Madhav Rai temple\", dedicated to a form of Lord Vishnu, as protector of Mandi. An elegant silver image of Radha and Krishna was made by his goldsmith Bhima, in the year 1705, which was named \"Madho Rai\" and deified, and ordained as the King of the State of Mandi thereafter. Since then the rulers served the state as servants of Madho Rai and custodians of the State. Suraj Sen’s successors have also held the deity of the temple in great reverence. This god is represented with precedence over all other gods on various religious occasions. The theocratic nature of the people of the state is amply reflected during the popular \"Mandi Shivratri Fair\", which is held every year with great fanfare.\n\nHowever, the specific observance of this festival as a fair, starting with Shivaratri, is linked to its ruler Ishwari Sen. Ishawri Sen was held a prisoner for 12 years after he lost his kingdom in the war waged by Sansar Chand of Punjab, in 1792. He was released by the Gurkha invaders who had invaded the Kangra and Mandi states. Afterwards, the Gurkhas' restored the Mandi state to Ishwari Sen. He was given a reception on the occasion of his return to Mandi, his state capital. On this occasion, the King invited all hill deities of the Kingdom and held a grand celebration, and this day happened to be the Shivratri festival day. Since then the practice of holding the Mandi fair during Shivaratri has been observed every year at Mandi. In recent years, modernity has also set in with Bollywood artists performing at the fair at Paddal in the celebrations in the evenings.\n\nThe observance of the fair is marked on the Shivaratri day when the village gods are carried in palanquins or rathas (chariots by people) to Mandi to pay homage to Madho Rai and the Raja. Members of caste denominations such as Brahmin and Kshatriya carry their gods and goddesses by palanquins or on their back. However, some exceptions of carrying them in vehicles by some caste groups have been noted. Thereafter, the fair lasts for seven days.\n\nIt is an accepted practice that every deity that is brought to the festival (decorated with glittering embroidered drapery) visits Madho Rai temple first to pay obeisance to Lord Vishnu and then proceed to the palace in a colourful procession called the Shoba Yatra, known locally as 'Zareb,' to honour the ruler (the regent of the Lord Mado Rai). (It is said that Madho Rai comes out of his temple only once a year on the Shivaratri day and leads the procession.). The ruler thereafter pay obeisance to Lord Shiva at the Bhootnath temple where the main festival of Shivaratri is held. The palanquins of the deities are swayed to the drum beats and folk music to indicate their happiness after visiting the temples of Vishnu and Shiva.\n\nThere is pecking order that is maintained in the sequence of worship by the deities invited to the fair, based on rank and status. The day after the Shivaratri, on the second day of the fair, a pageant of gods with folk bands, dancers and devotees (all dressed in their colourful attire) and with lot of fanfare, is held in Paddal, a large open ground at the confluence of the Beas and Suketi rivers. Some 200 deities arrive from shrines around Mandi town and are assigned places at the Paddal grounds as per the pecking order, where the devotees offer worship to all the deities. The pageant is held every day of the festival.\n\nThe fair is also an occasion when local traders and people carry out brisk trade in local products such as wool, opium, honey, walnut, ghee (butter oil), and general merchandise from the region of Kangra, Kullu, Shimla, Bilaspur and from the neighbouring state of Punjab. It is said that the festivities promote handcrafted jewellery of the region. However, during the entire Mandi Shivaratri Fair, religiosity is the main theme. It is said that religious synthesis was achieved by combining the worship of Vishnu and Shiva cults during the seven-day fair.\n\nOne day before the concluding day of the festival at the end of fanfare, music and dance, in the evening, Jagaran (\"night vigil,\" a nightlong worship) is held. On this occasion, a guru and his disciple proclaim prophesies for the following year. On the last day of the festivities, prayers are chanted and, after paying obeisance to Lord Shiva, all the deities assembled in Mandi depart to their original abodes. On this occasion, chadars (a form of devotional drapery offering to the god) are offered. It is an occasion when the head of the state (now a governor) is normally present on the last day, joins the worship, and accompanies the pageant. During all these festivities, it is said that Rishi Kamru Nag (local god of rains), the presiding deity of the Maha Shivaratri, after paying his obeisance to Madho Rai, moves to the Tarna ma temple at the top of the Tarna hill from where he watches the proceedings of the fair for seven days. \nPeople from all walks of life and belonging to all strata of the society from adjoining areas come to visit this fair and to seek the blessings of Lord Shiva on this auspicious day. \nBhootnath Temple, with an idol of a manifestation of god Shiva, an ancient temple dated to the 1520s, is synonymous with Mandi. It is in the heart of the town. The Nandi, Shiva's mount, faces the deity from the ornamented double-arched entrance. The festival of Shivaratri is the prime event at this temple; the temple is the focal point of the seven day festival.\n\nA legend is told of the building of Bhoothnath Temple. It is said that, in 1526, Raja Ajber Sen heard the story of a cow offering milk on her own volition to a particular stone in a forest in Mandi. Lord Shiva is said to have appeared in the Raja’s dream and directed him to extricate the Shiva Linga that was buried at that site. Thereafter, the Raja found the Shiva Linga at the indicated location, which he deified in a temple that he erected in 1526, at the place it was found. He called it the \"Bhootnath Temple\" and started the observance of the Shivaratri festival at Mandi. Concurrent with this event, the Raja shifted his capital from Bhiuli to Mandi.\n\nMandi town is accessible by road from Shimla, Chandigarh, Pathankot and Delhi. The nearest railway stations are Joginder Nagar and Shimla by narrow gauge train. It is connected to Chandigarh and Kalka by broad gauge line of the Indian Railways.\nKullu-Manali airport Bhuntar is the nearest airport, it is about 45 km from Mandi town.\n"}
{"id": "12615647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12615647", "title": "Mathura rape case", "text": "Mathura rape case\n\nThe Mathura rape case was an incident of custodial rape in India on 26 March 1972, wherein Mathura, a young tribal girl, was allegedly raped by two policemen on the compound of Desaiganj Police Station in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra. After the Supreme Court acquitted the accused, there was public outcry and protests, which eventually led to amendments in the Indian rape law via The Criminal Law Amendment Act 1983 (No. 43) .\n\nMathura was a young orphan tribal girl living with one of her two brothers. She was an \"Adivasi\". The incident is suspected to have taken place on 26 March 1972, she was between 14 and 16 years old at that time. Mathura occasionally worked as a domestic helper with a woman named Nushi. She met Nushi's nephew named Ashok who wanted to marry her, but her brother did not agree to the union and went to the local police station to lodge a complaint claiming that his sister, a minor, was being kidnapped by Ashok and his family members. After receiving the complaint, the police authority brought Ashok and his family members to the police station. Following general investigation, Mathura, her brother, Ashok, and his family members were permitted to go back home. However, as they were leaving, Mathura was asked to stay behind while her relatives were asked to wait outside. Mathura was then raped by the two policemen.\n\nWhen her relatives and the assembled crowd threatened to burn down the police chowky, the two accused policemen, Ganpat and Tukaram, reluctantly agreed to file a panchnama (legal recording of evidence).\n\nThe case came for hearing on 1 June 1974 in the sessions court. The judgment returned found the defendants not guilty. It was stated that because Mathura was 'habituated to sexual intercourse', her consent was voluntary; under the circumstances only sexual intercourse could be proved and not rape.\n\nOn appeal, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court set aside the judgment of the Sessions Court, and sentenced the accused to one and five years imprisonment respectively. The Court held that passive submission due to fear induced by serious threats could not be construed as consent or willing sexual intercourse.\n\nHowever, in September 1979 the Supreme Court of India justices Jaswant Singh, Kailasam and Koshal in their judgement on \"Tukaram vs. State of Maharashtra\" \nreversed the High Court ruling and again acquitted the accused policemen. The Supreme Court held that Mathura had raised no alarm; and also that there were no visible marks of injury on her body thereby suggesting no struggle and therefore no rape. The judge noted, \"Because she was used to sex, she might have incited the cops (they were drunk on duty) to have intercourse with her\".\n\nIn September 1979, only a few days after the verdict was pronounced, law professors Upendra Baxi, Raghunath Kelkar and Lotika Sarkar of Delhi University and Vasudha Dhagamwar of Pune wrote an open letter to the Supreme Court, protesting the concept of consent in the judgment. \"Consent involves submission, but the converse is not necessarily true...From the facts of case, all that is established is submission, and not consent...Is the taboo against pre-marital sex so strong as to provide a license to Indian police to rape young girls.\" Spontaneous widespread protests and demonstrations followed by women's organisations who demanded a review of judgement, receiving extensive media coverage.\n\nA number of women's group were formed as a direct response to the judgment, including \"Saheli\" in Delhi, and prior to that in January 1980, Lotika Sarkar, was also involved in the formation of the first feminist group in India against rape, \"Forum Against Rape\", later renamed \"Forum Against Oppression of Women\" (FAOW). A national conference was organised by FAOW which started the debate for legal reforms. Issues of violence against women and the difficulty of seeking judicial help in sexual crimes was highlighted by the women's movement.\n\nFollowing the same tradition, on the International Women's day women from various states including Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Nagpur took to the streets. Seema Sakhare, the founder of the first organizations in India that worked on the issue of violence against women.\n\nHowever, the courts ruled that there was no \"locus standi\" (legal standing) in the case to rule in favour to Mathura. Eventually this led to Government of India amending the rape law.\n\nThe Criminal Law Amendment Act 1983 (No. 43) made a statutory provision in the face of Section 114 (A) of the Evidence Act made 25 December 1983, which states that if the victim says that she did not consent to the sexual intercourse, the Court shall presume that she did not consent as a rebuttable presumption. New laws were also enacted following the incident. The Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code underwent a change with the enactment and addition of Section 376(A), Section 376(B),Section 376(C), Section 376(D), which made custodial rape punishable. Besides defining custodial rape, the amendment shifted the burden of proof from the accuser to the accused once intercourse was established; it also added provisions for in-camera trials, the prohibition on the victim identity disclosure, and tougher sentences.\n\nThe case is seen as turning point in women right's movement in India, as it led to just greater awareness of women's legal rights issue, oppression, and patriarchal mindsets. A number of women's organisations soon came forth across India. Previously, rape misjudgments or acquittals would go unnoticed, but in the following years, women's movement against rape gathered force and organisation supporting rape victims and women's rights advocates came to the fore.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19838709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19838709", "title": "Mid America Off Road Association", "text": "Mid America Off Road Association\n\nThe Mid America Off Road Association (MAORA) is an American off road racing sanctioning. It has sanctioned off road racing events since 1972. Web site www.maoraracing.us\n\nMAORA is a non-profit race sanctioning organization. MAORA was created in 1972 to organize off-road enthusiasts and generally promote the sport of off-road racing. MAORA offers two Driver's points series and sets the rules and regulations to be followed by racers, track owners and promoters. Club officers are elected annually by the membership.\n\nMAORA has 2 divisions of classes. One is the \"Pro\" classes, with the other being \"Trophy Classes.\" The pro classes usually feature the more experienced racers, with more technologically advanced vehicles, whereas the trophy classes feature a \"run-what-you-brung\" format, meaning almost no rules. The more novice racers generally race in the Trophy classes. The pro classes race for money, while top finishers in the trophy classes receive trophies. Although class descriptions do not say this, all vehicles MUST have approved fuel cells, roll cages, racing seats, and safety belts. All drivers must wear approved safety gear which includes fireproof suits and Snell approved helmets.\nSide by Side\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56903209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56903209", "title": "MoonLIGHT", "text": "MoonLIGHT\n\nMoonLIGHT, also called Lunar Laser Ranging Retroreflector Array for the 21st Century (LLRRA-21), is a laser retroreflector to be deployed near the south pole of the Moon. The reflector is planned to be launched in 2019 as a secondary payload on the MX-1E lunar lander built by the private company Moon Express. The laser-ranging experiment was developed as a collaboration primarily between the University of Maryland in the United States, and the Italian National Laboratories of Frascati to complement and expand on the Lunar Laser Ranging experiment started with the Apollo Program in 1969.\n\nThe principle of this laser ranging is based on laser pulses sent from a telescope on Earth to the retroreflector array on the Moon. The retroreflector (mirrors) send the pulse straight back to the originating telescope where the round trip time —and therefore the exact distance— is recorded. The reflector arrays are designed to allow more accurate measurements from Earth that will increase lunar mapping accuracy, will test principles of Einstein's general theory of relativity, and other theories of gravity. Researchers think these studies may also help understand the nature of dark energy.\n\nMoonLIGHT is a laser reflecting array to be deployed near the lunar south pole. It was developed as a collaboration primarily between the University of Maryland and the Italian National Laboratories of Frascati. The reflector will be a secondary payload on the planned MX-1E lunar lander built by Moon Express, planned to be launched in 2019 with an Electron rocket. An unrelated science payload on the same lander is the International Lunar Observatory. The MX-1E lander is planned to land on the Malapert Mountain, a 5 km tall peak in the Aitken Basin region that has an uninterrupted direct line of sight to Earth. \n\nThis experiment will complement and advance the retroreflector experiments started with Apollo 11 in 1969, that will be 100 times more accurate. The experiment and agreement between the collaborators was announced on 15 May 2015. Additional partners and collaborators include the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory of ASI, the University of Hannover (Germany), and the Czech Technical University (Czech Republic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49104071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49104071", "title": "Murder of Ashley Ann Olsen", "text": "Murder of Ashley Ann Olsen\n\nAshley Ann Olsen was an American woman living in Florence, Italy who was murdered in her apartment in 2016. An illegal immigrant who arrived in Italy from Senegal during the 2015 European migrant crisis was arrested and charged with the murder.\n\nThe case drew attention as one of a number of murders committed by migrants during the European migrant crisis. According to the \"New York Times\", the New Year's Eve sexual assaults in Germany, \"resonated in Italy\", and the police chief of Florence addressed safety worries, \"assuring the public that Florence remained safe\" in the wake of the Olsen murder.\"\n\nOlsen's murder was discussed as an example of the sexual harassment that women, especially young, foreign, women face in Italian cities, and of the victim blaming of young, attractive female murder victims for their own deaths.\n\nOlsen was killed at a time of rising public concern about miscommunication regarding consent to sexual activity between migrant men and European women, and international attention was focused on the New Year's Eve sexual assaults in Germany that took place in a number of cities just days before Olsen was killed. In January, Denmark debated a proposal to ban anyone who could not speak Danish, German or English from entering a bar or nightclub, and news discussion of the proposal included the Ashley Ann Olsen case.\n\nOlsen was the daughter of Walter and Paula Olsen, of Summer Haven, Florida. She was a 1999 graduate of St. Joseph Academy. She moved to Florence in 2014 after the breakup of her marriage to South African diver Grant Jankielsohn, and with the intention of studying art and in order to live near her father, who teaches at an American school in Florence. She was living in an apartment in the Otramo neighborhood of Florence when she was murdered.\n\nOlsen, 35, was found dead in her apartment in the Santo Spirito neighborhood of Florence by her boyfriend, Florentine artist Federico Fiorentini, on 9 January 2016. Marks on her neck indicated that she had been strangled to death.\n\nCheik Tidiane Diaw, a 27-year-old Senegalese national who had recently entered Italy as an illegal immigrant, was arrested for the crime. Witnesses saw the two leave a nightclub in Florence together on 7 January. Security cameras in the street recorded them walking to Olsen's apartment in the early hours of 8 January. After identifying Diaw using security camera footage, police called him in for questioning, arresting him based on DNA evidence. Diaw's attorney, Antonio Voce, said that Diaw and Olsen had consumed cocaine and alcohol.\n\nThe lead investigator on the case, Giacinto Profazio, was involved in the Amanda Knox and Meredith Kercher expatriate murder, a case with which Olsen's murder is frequently compared.\n\nOn 9 February, reexamination of security tapes by authorities showed that suspect Diaw had returned to the apartment on the night of the murder and spent a period of time inside after his first departure from it.\n\nProsecutors asked for a life sentence, the highest penalty available in Italy.\n\nThe murderer, Cheik Diaw is an illegal immigrant from Senegal who arrived in Italy in 2015. According to the prosecutor, DNA analysis of a cigarette butt and a condom found by police investigators in Olsen's bathroom led to Diaw's arrest.\n\nDiaw was convicted of murder and sentenced to 30 years in prison.\n\nAttorneys acting for the perpetrator appealed the verdict, but the original 30-year prison sentence was upheld in January 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5608678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5608678", "title": "Mėnuo Juodaragis", "text": "Mėnuo Juodaragis\n\nMėnuo Juodaragis ( or Moon of the Black Horn, also known as MJR) is an annual Baltic culture, alternative music, folk music and experimental music festival organized in Lithuania. It's been organized since 1995 and is visited by 5,000 to 6,000 people each year, making it one of the biggest and oldest festivals in Lithuania.\n\nThe festival's programme includes lectures by folklorists and historians, workshops and demonstrations by artisans (blacksmiths, leatherworkers, weavers, jewellers, dyers and others), traditional rites, historical reenactments, art exhibitions, film screenings, hikes, sports competitions and folk dancing.\n\nMėnuo Juodaragis was initiated in 1997 as a spontaneous one day gathering of several young people and their friends in Verbiškės village, Molėtai District, Lithuania, where it was organized biennially until 1999.\n\nFollowing the start in Verbiškės, Mėnuo Juodaragis moved to Sudeikiai, a settlement near Utena town, where it took place from 2000 to 2002. Since then the timing of the festival also became fixed on the last weekend of August. Then in 2003–2005, Mėnuo Juodaragis was held in Kernavė, the medieval capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. After a break in 2006 for financial and organisational reasons, the festival chose an island in Zarasas Lake in Zarasai town as the location for the 2007 festival.\n\nIn 2011 Mėnuo Juodaragis returned to Lake Zarasas and the 12th festival was dedicated to sutartinės, Lithuanian ancient polyphonic singing. The theme of the 13th festival in 2012 was birds and aviation and it was once again organized in Lake Zarasas. An air balloon race was held for the occasion, as well as a night balloon parade.\nThe 14th Mėnuo Juodaragis was dedicated to Latvians, the other surviving Baltic people, and the unity of Baltic people, featuring an extensive list of Latvian bands, such as Iļģi, Auļi, Skyforger, Vilki, Grodi and Dzelzs Vilks, as well as Latvian artisans and lecturers.\n\nThe main theme of the 19th festival in 2016 was \"Home\", according to the organizers not only in the physical sense, but also in a spiritual meaning. That year Mėnuo Juodaragis took place on an island in Dūburys Lake, Zarasai District and the headliner was Slovenian avant-garde music group Laibach.\n\nThe 20th edition of Mėnuo Juodaragis returned to the island in Dūburys Lake. The festival was dedicated to Baltic god of thunder Perkūnas and was headlined by Nordic folk music group Wardruna.\n\nMėnuo Juodaragis is organised by the Lithuanian record label \"Dangus\" and non-profit public institution \"Baltijos Griaustinis\". From 2002, the festival is partially supported by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Lithuania, as well as the Department of UNESCO Cultural Management at Vilnius Academy of Arts, other culture institutions, enterprises, media channels and private persons.\n\n"}
{"id": "54363640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54363640", "title": "Necrofauna", "text": "Necrofauna\n\nNecrofauna are species that were previously extinct and have been biologically revived or recreated by the process of de-extinction.\n\nNecrofauna are proxies or imitations of their former species and not identical replicas. Due to a number of technological, biological and environmental factors, they are considered a new type organism altogether. Revive and Restore, a nonprofit organization that supports pursuing de-extinction research with transparency to the public, describes the creation of necrofauna as a result of “transfer[ing] the genes that define the extinct species into the genome of the related species, effectively converting it into a living version of the extinct creature.\"\n\nWhile the existence of necrofauna is still largely hypothetical, a Pyrenean ibex was the first and only animal to have undergone the de-extinction process with moderate success. The \"unextinct\" or revived animal was born, but then died several minutes later due to a lung defect.\n\nNecrofauna and the de-extinction movement are highly controversial within conservation and scientific circles. Many conservationists argue that creating necrofauna could potentially distract from the urgency of saving endangered species that are still alive. Concerns have also been raised pertaining to the possible damaging impacts ecology could face in the wake of introducing a new species into an environment.\n\nThe term \"necrofauna\" is a portmanteau consisting of two morphemes. The first morpheme, “necro,” comes from the Greek prefix \"necro\", meaning death. “Fauna,” meanwhile, refers to the animals that inhabit a particular time period or environment and is derived from the Greek name \"Fauna\", the Roman goddess of earth and fertility.\n\nAlex Steffen is referred to as the first person to coin the neologism “necrofauna” in Jason Mark’s \"Earth Island Journal\" article titled “Back From the Dead.” The word was used in the context of describing the phenomenon of \"charismatic necrofauna,\" which expresses the possibility that only certain charismatic species may be chosen as candidates for de-extinction based on human preferences, or that such resurrection efforts could distract from helping less \"charismatic\" species that are currently endangered.\n"}
{"id": "14955477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14955477", "title": "Opéra national de Lorraine", "text": "Opéra national de Lorraine\n\nOpéra national de Lorraine is an opera company and opera house located in the city of Nancy in the French province of Lorraine. Formerly named the Opéra de Nancy et de Lorraine, it was given the status of \"national opera\" in 2006.\n\nThe company's original theatre was constructed during the reign of the King of Poland and Duke of Lorraine, Stanislas Leszczyński in 1758. This theatre, located behind the Museum of Fine Arts, was destroyed by fire in October 1905 and a new opera house was constructed in its present location on the Place Stanislas by Joseph Hornecker and was inaugurated in 1919.\n\nJoseph Hornecker, a member of the \"School of Nancy,\" created the opera house in the classical style combined with characteristics of \"art nouveau\". The work done in Nancy made it a center of art and architecture that rivaled Paris and helped give the city the nickname \"Capitale de l'Est.\" \n\nThe opera house underwent restoration in 1994.\n\nAll productions are accompanied by the Orchestre symphonique et lyrique de Nancy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1015638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015638", "title": "Orange Crush (song)", "text": "Orange Crush (song)\n\n\"Orange Crush\" is a song by the American alternative rock band R.E.M. It was released as the first single from the band's sixth studio album, \"Green\", in 1988. It was not commercially released in the U.S. despite reaching number one as a promotional single on both the Mainstream and Modern Rock Tracks (where, at the time, it had the record for longest stay at number one with eight weeks, beating U2). It peaked at number 28 on the UK Singles Chart, making it the band's then-highest chart hit in Britain, where they promoted the song by making their debut appearance on \"Top of the Pops\".\n\nThe video for the song, directed by Matt Mahurin, won the band its first VMA, for Best Post-Modern Video. \"Orange Crush\" was also the first song to win in the category.\n\nThe song was placed on R.E.M.'s Warner Bros. Records compilation \"\" in 2003, and a live version appears on the \"R.E.M. Live\" album recorded in Dublin in 2005.\n\nThe song's title is a reference to the chemical defoliant Agent Orange manufactured by Monsanto Corporation and Dow Chemical for the U.S. Department of Defense and used in the Vietnam War. Stipe opened the song during The Green World Tour by singing the famous U.S. Army recruiting slogan, \"Be all you can be... in the Army.\" Stipe's father served in the Vietnam War.\n\nBritish indie rock band Editors recorded a cover of \"Orange Crush\" as the B-side for the re-issue of the \"Blood\" single.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "420956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420956", "title": "Origins of the Cold War", "text": "Origins of the Cold War\n\nThe Origins of the Cold War involved the breakdown of relations between the Soviet Union versus the United States, Great Britain and their allies in the years 1945–1949. From the American-British perspective, first came diplomatic confrontations stretching back decades, followed by the issue of political boundaries in Central Europe and political non-democratic control of the East by the Soviet Army. Then came economic issues (especially the Marshall Plan) and then the first major military confrontation, with a threat of a hot war, in the Berlin Blockade of 1948–1949. By 1949, the lines were sharply drawn and the Cold War was largely in place in Europe. Outside Europe, the starting points vary in the late 1940s or early 1950s.\n\nEvents preceding World War II and even the Russian Revolution of 1917, underlay older tensions between the Soviet Union, European countries and the United States. A series of events during and after World War II exacerbated tensions, including the Soviet–German pact in 1939, the Anglo-Americans repeated postponement of an amphibious invasion of German-occupied Europe, the Western allies' support of the Atlantic Charter, Soviet rejection of decisions about Eastern European democracy made in wartime conferences and the Kremlin's control of an Eastern Bloc of Soviet satellite states.\n\nIn World War I, Britain, France and Russia had been allies from the start in 1914, and the U.S. joined in April 1917. The Bolsheviks seized power in Russia in November 1917 but German armies advanced rapidly deep into the country. The Allies responded with an economic blockade against all of Russia. In early March 1918, the Soviets followed through on the wave of popular disgust against the war and accepted harsh German peace terms at Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. In the eyes of some Allies, Russia now was helping Germany win the war by freeing up a million German soldiers for the Western Front and by \"relinquishing much of Russia's food supply, industrial base, fuel supplies, and communications with Western Europe.\" According to historian Spencer Tucker, the Allies felt, \"The treaty was the ultimate betrayal of the Allied cause and sowed the seeds for the Cold War. With Brest-Litovsk the spectre of German domination in Eastern Europe threatened to become reality, and the Allies now began to think seriously about military intervention,\" and proceeded to step up their \"economic warfare\" against the Bolsheviks. Some Bolsheviks saw Russia as only the first step, planning to incite revolutions against capitalism in every western country, but the need for peace with Germany led Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin away from this position.\n\nIn 1918 Britain sent in money and some troops to support the anti-Bolshevik \"White\" counter-revolutionaries. France, Japan and the United States also sent forces to help decide the Russian Civil War. However, the Bolsheviks, operating a unified command from a central location, defeated all the opposition one by one and took full control of Russia, as well as breakaway provinces such as Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. Bainbridge Colby, the American Secretary of State, in 1920 announce an American policy of refusing to deal with the new regime. Colby claimed:\n\nSoviet Russia found itself isolated in international diplomacy. Dictator Vladimir Lenin stated that the Soviet Union was surrounded by a \"hostile capitalist encirclement\" and he viewed diplomacy as a weapon to keep Soviet enemies divided, beginning with the establishment of the Soviet Comintern, which called for revolutionary upheavals abroad. Communist revolutions failed in Germany, Bavaria, and Hungary, as the US poured billions of dollars of food relief into eastern Europe expressly to curb unrest.\n\nDifferences in the political and economic systems of Western democracies and the Soviet Union—--dictatorship by one party versus pluralistic competition among parties, mass arrests and execution of dissidents versus free press and independent courts, state ownership of all farms and businesses versus capitalism, economic autarky versus free trade, state planning versus private enterprise—became simplified and refined in national ideologies to represent two ways of life. Following the postwar Red Scare, many in the U.S. saw the Soviet system as a threat.\n\nIn 1933 the United States under President Franklin D. Roosevelt officially recognized the Soviet Union. The long delay was caused by Moscow's repudiation of Tsarist-era debts, the undemocratic nature of the Soviet government, and its threats to overthrow capitalism using local Communist Parties. By 1933 these issues had faded and the opportunity for greater trade appealed to Washington.\n\nMoscow was angry with Western appeasement of Adolf Hitler after the signing of the Munich Pact in 1938 which gave Germany partial control of Czechoslovakia after conference in which the Soviet Union was not invited.\n\nIn 1939 after conducting negotiations with both the British and French group and Germany regarding potential military and political agreements, the Soviet Union and Germany signed a Commercial Agreement providing for the trade of certain German military and civilian equipment in exchange for Soviet raw materials and the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, commonly named after the foreign secretaries of the two countries (Molotov–Ribbentrop), which included a secret agreement to split Poland and Eastern Europe between the two states.\n\nOne week after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact's signing, the partition of Poland commenced with the German invasion of western Poland. Relations between the Soviet Union and the West further deteriorated when, two weeks after the German invasion, the Soviet Union invaded eastern Poland while coordinating with German forces. The Soviet Union then invaded Finland, which was also ceded to it under the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact's secret protocol, resulting in stiff losses and the entry of an interim peace treaty granting it parts of eastern Finland. In June, the Soviets issued an ultimatum demanding Bessarabia, Bukovina and the Hertza region from Romania, after which Romania caved to Soviet demands for occupation. That month, the Soviets also annexed the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia\n\nFrom August 1939 to June 1941 (when Germany broke the Pact and invaded the Soviet Union), relations between the West and the Soviets deteriorated further when the Soviet Union and Germany engaged in an extensive economic relationship by which the Soviet Union sent Germany vital oil, rubber, manganese and other material in exchange for German weapons, manufacturing machinery and technology. In late 1940, the Soviets also engaged in talks with Germany regarding potential membership in the Axis, culminating in the countries trading written proposals, though no agreement for Soviet Axis entry was ever reached.\n\nOn June 22, 1941, Germany broke the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union through the territories that the two countries had previously divided. Stalin switched his cooperation from Hitler to Churchill. Britain and the Soviets signed a formal alliance, but the U.S. did not join until after the Attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Immediately, there was disagreement between Britain's ally Poland and the Soviet Union. The British and Poles strongly suspected that when Stalin was cooperating with Hitler, he ordered the execution of about 22,000 Polish officer POWs, at what was later to become known as the Katyn massacre. Still, the Soviets and the Western Allies were forced to cooperate, despite their tensions. The U.S. shipped vast quantities of Lend-Lease material to the Soviets.\n\nDuring the war, both sides disagreed on military strategy, especially the question of the opening of a second front against Germany in Western Europe. As early as July 1941, Stalin asked Britain to invade northern France, but Britain was in no position to carry out such a request. Stalin had also requested that the Western Allies open a second front from the early months of the war—which finally occurred on D-Day, June 6, 1944. The US and Britain initially indicated that they would open the second front in 1942, and then in 1943, but it was postponed both times.\n\nIn early 1944 MI6 re-established Section IX, its prewar anti-Soviet section, and Philby took a position there. He was able to alert the NKVD about all British intelligence on the Soviets–including what the American OSS had shared with the British about the Soviets. Throughout World War II, the Soviet NKVD's mole Kim Philby had access to high-importance British MI6 intelligence, and passed it to the Soviets.\n\nThe Soviets believed at the time, and charged throughout the Cold War, that the British and Americans intentionally delayed the opening of a second front against Germany in order to intervene only at the last minute so as to influence the peace settlement and dominate Europe. Historians such as John Lewis Gaddis dispute this claim, citing other military and strategic calculations for the timing of the Normandy invasion. In the meantime, the Russians suffered heavy casualties, with as many as twenty million dead. Nevertheless, Soviet perceptions (or misconceptions) of the West and \"vice versa\" left a strong undercurrent of tension and hostility between the Allied powers.\n\nIn turn, in 1944, the Soviets appeared to the Allies to have deliberately delayed the relief of the Polish underground's Warsaw Uprising against the Nazis. The Soviets did not supply the Uprising from the air, and for a significant time also refused to allow British and American air drops. On at least one occasion, a Soviet fighter shot down an RAF plane supplying the Polish insurgents in Warsaw. George Orwell was moved to make a public warning about Soviet postwar intentions. A 'secret war' also took place between the British SOE-backed AK and Soviet NKVD-backed partisans. British-trained Polish special forces agent Maciej Kalenkiewicz was killed by the Soviets at this time. The British and Soviets also sponsored competing factions of resistance fighters in Yugoslavia and Greece.\n\nBoth sides, moreover, held very dissimilar ideas regarding the establishment and maintenance of post-war security. The Americans tended to understand security in situational terms, assuming that, if US-style governments and markets were established as widely as possible, countries could resolve their differences peacefully, through international organizations. The key to the US vision of security was a post-war world shaped according to the principles laid out in the 1941 Atlantic Charter—in other words, a liberal international system based on free trade and open markets. This vision would require a rebuilt capitalist Europe, with a healthy Germany at its center, to serve once more as a hub in global affairs.\n\nThis would also require US economic and political leadership of the postwar world. Europe needed the USA's assistance if it was to rebuild its domestic production and finance its international trade. The USA was the only world power not economically devastated by the fighting. By the end of the war, it was producing around fifty percent of the world's industrial goods.\n\nSoviet leaders, however, tended to understand security in terms of space. This reasoning was conditioned by Russia's historical experiences, given the frequency with which the country had been invaded over the preceding 150 years. The Second World War experience was particularly dramatic for the Russians: the Soviet Union suffered unprecedented devastation as a result of the Nazi onslaught, and over 20 million Soviet citizens died during the war; tens of thousands of Soviet cities, towns, and villages were leveled; and 30,100 Soviet factories were destroyed. In order to prevent a similar assault in the future, Stalin was determined to use the Red Army to gain control of Poland, to dominate the Balkans and to destroy utterly Germany's capacity to engage in another war. The problem was that Stalin's strategy risked confrontation with the equally powerful United States, who viewed Stalin's actions as a flagrant violation of the Yalta agreement.\n\nAt the end of the war in Europe, in May 1945, the Soviets insisted on occupying the Danish island of Bornholm, due to its strategic position at the entrance to the Baltic. When the local German commander insisted on surrendering to the Western Allies, as did German forces in the rest of Denmark, the Soviets bombed the island, causing heavy casualties and damage among a civilian population which was only lightly touched throughout the war, and then invaded the island and occupied it until mid-1946 - all of which can be considered as initial moves in the Cold War.\n\nEven before the war came to an end, it seemed highly likely that cooperation between the Western powers and the USSR would give way to intense rivalry or conflict. This was due primarily to the starkly contrasting economic ideologies of the two superpowers, now quite easily the strongest in the world. Whereas the USA was a liberal, two-party democracy with an advanced capitalist economy, based on free enterprise and profit-making, the USSR was a one-party Marxist–Leninist State with a state-controlled economy where private wealth was all but outlawed.\n\nIn 1945, the Soviet Union conducted a show trial of 16 Polish resistance leaders who had spent the War fighting against the Nazis with British and American help. Within six years, 14 of them were dead.\n\nAt the Nuremberg Trials, the chief Soviet prosecutor submitted false documentation in an attempt to indict German defendants for the murder of around 22,000 Polish officers in the Katyn forest near Smolensk. However, suspecting Soviet culpability, the other Allied prosecutors refused to support the indictment and German lawyers promised to mount an embarrassing defense. No one was charged or found guilty at Nuremberg for the Katyn Forest massacre. In 1990, the Soviet government acknowledged that the Katyn massacre was carried out, not by the Germans, but by the Soviet secret police.\n\nFrom September 1945, Polish resistance fighter and Righteous Witold Pilecki was sent by General Anders to spy against the communists in Poland. In 1948, he was executed on charges of spying and 'serving the interests of foreign imperialism'.\n\nSeveral postwar disagreements between western and Soviet leaders were related to their differing interpretations of wartime and immediate post-war conferences.\n\nThe Tehran Conference in late 1943 was the first Allied conference in which Stalin was present. At the conference the Soviets expressed frustration that the Western Allies had not yet opened a second front against Germany in Western Europe. In Tehran, the Allies also considered the political status of Iran. At the time, the British had occupied southern Iran, while the Soviets had occupied an area of northern Iran bordering the Soviet republic of Azerbaijan. Nevertheless, at the end of the war, tensions emerged over the timing of the pull out of both sides from the oil-rich region.\n\nAt the February 1945 Yalta Conference, the Allies attempted to define the framework for a postwar settlement in Europe. The Allies could not reach firm agreements on the crucial questions: the occupation of Germany, postwar reparations from Germany, and the fate of Poland. No final consensus was reached on Germany, other than to agree to a Soviet request for reparations totaling $10 billion \"as a basis for negotiations.\" Debates over the composition of Poland's postwar government were also acrimonious. The Yalta Conference ended with \"a declaration on liberated Europe pledging respect for democratic forms and providing a diplomatic mechanism for constituting a generally acceptable Polish government\".\n\nFollowing the Allied victory in May, the Soviets effectively occupied Eastern Europe, while the US had much of Western Europe. In occupied Germany, the US and the Soviet Union established zones of occupation and a loose framework for four-power control with the ailing French and British.\n\nAt the Potsdam Conference starting in late July 1945, the Allies met to decide how to administer the defeated Nazi Germany, which had agreed to unconditional surrender nine weeks earlier on May 7 and May 8, 1945, VE day. Serious differences emerged over the future development of Germany and Eastern Europe. At Potsdam, the US was represented by a new president, Harry S. Truman, who on April 12 succeeded to the office upon Roosevelt's death. Truman was unaware of Roosevelt's plans for post-war engagement with the Soviet Union, and more generally uninformed about foreign policy and military matters. The new president, therefore, was initially reliant on a set of advisers (including Ambassador to the Soviet Union Averell Harriman and Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal). This group tended to take a harder line towards Moscow than Roosevelt had done. Administration officials favoring cooperation with the Soviet Union and the incorporation of socialist economies into a world trade system were marginalized. The UK was represented by a new prime minister, Clement Attlee, who had replaced Churchill after the Labour Party's defeat of the Conservatives in the 1945 general election.\n\nOne week after the Potsdam Conference ended, the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki added to Soviet distrust of the United States, when shortly after the attacks, Stalin protested to U.S. officials when Truman offered the Soviets little real influence in occupied Japan.\n\nThe immediate end of war material shipments from America to the USSR after the surrender of Germany also upset some politicians in Moscow, who believed this showed the U.S. had no intentions to support the USSR any more than they had to.\n\nAfter the war, Stalin sought to secure the Soviet Union's western border by installing communist-dominated regimes under Soviet influence in bordering countries. During and in the years immediately after the war, the Soviet Union annexed several countries as Soviet Socialist Republics within the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Many of these were originally countries effectively ceded to it by Nazi Germany in the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, before Germany invaded the Soviet Union. These later annexed territories include Eastern Poland (incorporated into two different SSRs), Latvia (became Latvia SSR), Estonia (became Estonian SSR), Lithuania (became Lithuania SSR), part of eastern Finland (Karelo-Finnish SSR and annexed into the Russian SFSR) and northern Romania (became the Moldavian SSR).\n\nOther states were converted into Soviet Satellite states, such as East Germany, the People's Republic of Poland, the People's Republic of Hungary, the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, the People's Republic of Romania and the People's Republic of Albania, which aligned itself in the 1960s away from the Soviet Union and towards the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe defining characteristic of the Stalinist communism implemented in Eastern Bloc states was the unique symbiosis of the state with society and the economy, resulting in politics and economics losing their distinctive features as autonomous and distinguishable spheres. Initially, Stalin directed systems that rejected Western institutional characteristics of market economies, democratic governance (dubbed \"bourgeois democracy\" in Soviet parlance) and the rule of law subduing discretional intervention by the state. They were economically communist and depended upon the Soviet Union for significant amounts of materials. While in the first five years following World War II, massive emigration from these states to the West occurred, restrictions implemented thereafter stopped most East-West migration, except that under limited bilateral and other agreements.\n\nIn February 1946, George F. Kennan's Long Telegram from Moscow helped articulate the growing hard line against the Soviets. The telegram argued that the Soviet Union was motivated by both traditional Russian imperialism and by Marxist ideology; Soviet behavior was inherently expansionist and paranoid, posing a threat to the United States and its allies. Later writing as \"Mr. X\" in his article \"The Sources of Soviet Conduct\" in \"Foreign Affairs\" (July 1947), Kennan drafted the classic argument for adopting a policy of \"containment\" toward the Soviet Union.\n\nOn March 5, 1946, Winston Churchill, while at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri, gave his speech \"The Sinews of Peace,\" declaring that an \"iron curtain\" had descended across Europe. From the standpoint of the Soviets, the speech was an incitement for the West to begin a war with the USSR, as it called for an Anglo-American alliance against the Soviets \"\n\nHaving lost 20 million people in the war, suffered German invasion twice in 30 years, and suffered tens of millions of casualties from onslaughts from the West three times in the preceding 150 years, the Soviet Union was determined to destroy Germany's capacity for another war. This was in alignment with the U.S. policy which had foreseen returning Germany to a pastoral state without heavy industry (the Morgenthau Plan). On September 6, 1946, James F. Byrnes made a speech in Germany, repudiating the Morgenthau Plan and warning the Soviets that the US intended to maintain a military presence in Europe indefinitely. (\"see\" Restatement of Policy on Germany) As Byrnes admitted one month later, \"The nub of our program was to win the German people [...] it was a battle between us and Russia over minds [...]\" Because of the increasing costs of food imports to avoid mass-starvation in Germany, and with the danger of losing the entire nation to communism, the U.S. government abandoned the Morgenthau plan in September 1946 with Secretary of State James F. Byrnes' speech Restatement of Policy on Germany.\n\nIn January 1947, Truman appointed General George Marshall as Secretary of State, scrapped Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) directive 1067, which embodied the Morgenthau Plan and supplanted it with JCS 1779, which decreed that an orderly and prosperous Europe requires the economic contributions of a stable and productive Germany.\". Administration officials met with Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov and others to press for an economically self-sufficient Germany, including a detailed accounting of the industrial plants, good and infrastructure already removed by the Soviets. After six weeks of negotiations, Molotov refused the demands and the talks were adjourned. Marshall was particularly discouraged after personally meeting with Stalin, who expressed little interest in a solution to German economic problems. The United States concluded that a solution could not wait any longer. In a June 5, 1947 speech, Comporting with the Truman Doctrine, Marshall announced a comprehensive program of American assistance to all European countries wanting to participate, including the Soviet Union and those of Eastern Europe, called the Marshall Plan.\n\nWith the initial planning for the Marshall plan in mid 1947, a plan which depended on a reactivated German economy, restrictions placed on German production were lessened. The roof for permitted steel production was for example raised from 25% of pre-war production levels to 50% of pre-war levels. The scrapping of JCS 1067 paved the way for the 1948 currency reform which halted rampant inflation.\n\nStalin opposed the Marshall Plan. He had built up the Eastern Bloc protective belt of Soviet controlled nations on his Western border, and wanted to maintain this buffer zone of states combined with a weakened Germany under Soviet control. Fearing American political, cultural and economic penetration, Stalin eventually forbade Soviet Eastern bloc countries of the newly formed Cominform from accepting Marshall Plan aid. In Czechoslovakia, that required a Soviet-backed Czechoslovak coup d'état of 1948, the brutality of which shocked Western powers more than any event so far and set in a motion a brief scare that war would occur and swept away the last vestiges of opposition to the Marshall Plan in the United States Congress. In September, 1947 the Central Committee secretary Andrei Zhdanov declared that the Truman Doctrine \"intended for accordance of the American help to all reactionary regimes, that actively oppose to democratic people, bears an undisguised aggressive character.\"\n\nIn Greece, during a civil war involving the communist-led partisan movement ELAS-EAM, British Special Forces terminated arms supplies to the ELA-ELAM, pro-monarchist armed forces were strengthened. On the political front, Americans, with British encouragement, attempted to dismantle ELAS-EAM socialist structures in the countryside, and an anti-communist swing gradually occurred.\n\nWestern Allies conducted meetings in Italy in March 1945 with German representatives to forestall a takeover by Italian communist resistance forces in northern Italy and to hinder the potential there for post-war influence of the civilian communist party. The affair caused a major rift between Stalin and Churchill, and in a letter to Roosevelt on 3 April Stalin complained that the secret negotiations did not serve to \"preserve and promote trust between our countries.\"\n\nRelations further deteriorated when, in January 1948, the U.S. State Department also published a collection of documents titled \"Nazi–Soviet Relations, 1939–1941: Documents from the Archives of The German Foreign Office\", which contained documents recovered from the Foreign Office of Nazi Germany revealing Soviet conversations with Germany regarding the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, including its secret protocol dividing eastern Europe, the 1939 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement, and discussions of the Soviet Union potentially becoming the fourth Axis Power. In response, one month later, the Soviet Union published \"Falsifiers of History\", this book, edited and partially re-written by Stalin, attacked the West.\n\nThe first major crisis in the emerging Cold War was the Berlin Blockade of 1948–49. Historian Carol K. Fink argues that this crisis, \"occupies a special place in Cold War historiography, as an emblem of Soviet aggressiveness and Anglo-American resistance.\" After setbacks to Soviet plans through the Marshall Plan, the successful introduction of a new currency to West Germany, and massive electoral losses for Communist parties, Moscow decided to cut off land access to West Berlin by rail and highway, thereby initiating the Berlin Blockade.Because Berlin was located within the Soviet-occupied zone of Germany, the only available methods of supplying the city were three limited air corridors.\n\nBy February 1948, because of massive post-war military cuts, the entire United States army had been reduced to 552,000 men. Military forces in non-Soviet Berlin sectors totaled only 8,973 Americans, 7,606 British and 6,100 French. Soviet military forces in the Soviet sector that surrounded Berlin totaled one and a half million men. The two United States regiments in Berlin would have provided little resistance against a Soviet attack. Therefore, a massive aerial supply campaign was initiated by the United States, Britain, France and other countries, the success of which caused Stalin to lift their blockade in May 1949. At no time did the Soviet military or the Politburo contemplate a military escalation of the Berlin crisis.\n\nThe United States, the Berlin crisis underscored the need to reverse the demobilization of the Army. On July 20, 1948, President Truman reopened the military draft. He called for nearly 10 million men to register for military service within the next two months.\n\nThe dispute over Germany escalated after Truman refused to give the Soviet Union reparations from West Germany's industrial plants because he believed it would hamper Germany's economic recovery further. Stalin responded by splitting off the Soviet sector of Germany as a communist state. The dismantling of West German industry was finally halted in 1951, when Germany agreed to place its heavy industry under the control of the European Coal and Steel Community, which in 1952 took over the role of the International Authority for the Ruhr.\n\nAt other times there were signs of caution. Stalin observed his 1944 agreement with Churchill and did not aid the communists in the struggle against the British-supported anti-communist regime in Greece. In Finland he accepted a friendly, non-communist government; and Russian troops were withdrawn from Austria by the end of 1955.\n\nThe Soviet military was focused on its main mission, the defense of the Soviet Union. From that perspective, the formation of NATO in 1949 was the decisive threat, and became its starting point for the Cold War. Historian David Glantz argues that:\n\nThe Cold War took place worldwide, but it had a somewhat different timing and trajectory outside Europe. In Africa, decolonization took place first; it was largely accomplished in the 1950s. The main rivals then sought bases of support in the new national political alignments.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States military operations had widespread support across Latin America, except for Argentina. After 1947, with the Cold War emerging in Europe, Washington made repeated efforts to encourage all the Latin American countries to take a Cold War anti-Communist position. They were reluctant to do so – for example, only Colombia sent soldiers to the United Nations contingent in the Korean War. The Soviet Union was quite weak across Latin America. Not until the late 1950s did Moscow achieve diplomatic or commercial relationships with most Latin American countries., Before then it had only two trade agreements (with Argentina and Mexico.) The communist movements that had existed in Brazil and elsewhere in the 1930s had been disbanded or outlawed. Washington exaggerated the dangers, and decided on a preemptive attack against a possible communist threat. It sought anti-communist resolutions at the annual meetings of the Pan American Union (renamed the Organization of American States (OAS) in 1948) and paid special attention to the growth of left-wing forces in Guatemala. A compromise was reached whereby the Latin American states agreed on vague statements of support for the American Cold War position, and the United States provided expanded financial grants and loans to stimulate economic growth. In 1954, at the 10th Inter-American Conference in Caracas, Washington demanded a resolution that the establishment of a communist government in any American state was a threat to the peace of the hemisphere. Guatemala cast the only negative vote. Guatemala's military, with CIA encouragement, overthrew its left-wing government later that year. Fidel Castro engineered his revolutionary takeover of Cuba in 1957–58 with very little Soviet support. The United States and the smaller Latin countries, outvoted the larger powers by the required two-thirds majority in 1962 to identify Cuba as a communist regime and suspend it from the OAS.\n\nAfter the war ended, Malaya was plunged into a state of emergency as British and Commonwealth forces fought a protracted counter-insurgency war against their former communist-led MPAJA ally, who had fought the Japanese and now demanded independence from Britain. In British Hong Kong, which had surrendered to Japan in December 1941, civil unrest occurred after Britain rapidly re-established rule at the end of the war.\n\nAustralia's entry into the Cold War came in 1950, when it rushed combat air and sea forces into the Korean War, two days after the Americans did. The Australian Prime Minister received a hero's welcome in Washington. The ANZUS military alliance with New Zealand and the United States was signed in July 1951; it was a plan for consultation and did not involve military planning like NATO. Public opinion in Australia was intensely hostile to Japan after its wartime atrocities, but Japan was now an ally in the Cold War, so Australia's accepted the very generous soft peace treaty with Japan in 1951. Instead of worrying about a resurgent Japan, Australia now worried more about a possible Chinese threat.\n\nFollowing decades of struggle, in 1949 the Chinese Communists under Mao Zedong defeated Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist armies and took control of the mainland. The Nationalist leaders and much of China's upper class fled to Taiwan where they had American protection. Stalin had long supported Chiang Kai-shek, while also giving some help to the Communists. The United States had tried in 1945–1948 to bring the Nationalists and Communists together in a coalition, but had no success. The conflict was not therefore part of the Cold War until 1949–1959. By the late 1950s, however, China and the USSR were at sword's point, and became bitter enemies over ideological control of the Marxist–Leninist orthodoxy. The two set up rival communist organizations in countries across the world. The Cold War then became a three-way conflict.\n\nFrance for many years had been dealing with a nationalist insurgency in Vietnam in which communists, led by Ho Chi Minh, played a prominent leadership role. In 1949, Mao's Communists took control of the north side of the China-Vietnam border, and began supporting the insurgents, especially by providing sanctuary from French attacks. Mark Lawrence and Frederik Logevall point out that \"resurgent French colonialism became inextricably intertwined with Cold War tensions, especially in the years after 1949.\" American pressure on France after 1949 tried to force France to give priority to fighting communism, rather than fighting Vietnamese nationalism.\n\nThe political situation in Iran was a flashpoint between the major players in 1945–46, with the Soviet Union sponsoring two breakaway provinces in northern Iran, adjacent to the Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan. Soviet troops were stationed in northwestern Iran during the war. They not only refused to withdraw in 1945 but backed revolts that established short-lived, pro-Soviet separatist national states called the Azerbaijan People's Government and the Republic of Kurdistan. The issue was debated at the United Nations, and in 1946 Moscow abandoned its position, and the conflict was permanently resolved peacefully, with a pro-western government resuming control. Iran did not become a major battlefield of the Cold War, but it had its own history of confrontation with Britain and the United States.\n\nThe long-standing conflict between Arabs and Jews in the Mandatory Palestine region continued after 1945, with Britain and in an increasingly impossible situation as the mandate holder. The Balfour Declaration of 1917 calling for a homeland for the Jews was supported in 1947 by both the Soviet Union and the United States. Both countries promptly Recognize the independent state of Israel in 1948. The Soviet Union later broke with Israel to support its Arab enemies. The region was more of an independent trouble zone rather than a playing field of the Cold War, and was not a precipitating factor in the Cold War.\n\nBy 1953, Arab nationalism based in Egypt was a neutralizing force. The Soviet Union leaned increasingly toward Egypt. Ehe United States based its Cold War coalition primarily on the Baghdad Pact of 1955 which formed Central Treaty Organization (CENTO), that included Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey and the United Kingdom.\n\nWhile most historians trace its origins to the period immediately following World War II, others argue that it began with the October Revolution in Russia in 1917 when the Bolsheviks took power. In 1919 Lenin stated that his new state was surrounded by a \"hostile capitalist encirclement\", and he viewed diplomacy as a weapon that should be used in order to keep the Soviet Union's enemies divided. He began with a new Communist International (\"Comintern\"), based in Moscow, which was designed to plan for revolutionary upheavals abroad. It was ineffective—Communist uprisings all failed in Germany, Hungary and elsewhere. Historian Max Beloff argues that the Soviets saw \"no prospect of permanent peace\", with the 1922 Soviet Constitution proclaiming:\n\nAccording to British historian Christopher Sutton:\n\nThe idea of long-term continuity is a minority scholarly view that has been challenged. Frank Ninkovich writes:\n\nThe usage of the term \"cold war\" to describe the postwar tensions between the U.S.- and Soviet-led blocs was popularized by Bernard Baruch, a U.S. financier and an adviser to Harry Truman, who used the term during a speech before the South Carolina state legislature on April 16, 1947.\n\nSince the term \"Cold War\" was popularized in 1947, there has been extensive disagreement in many political and scholarly discourses on what exactly were the sources of postwar tensions. In the American historiography, there has been disagreement as to who was responsible for the quick unraveling of the wartime alliance between 1945 and 1947, and on whether the conflict between the two superpowers was inevitable or could have been avoided. Discussion of these questions has centered in large part on the works of William Appleman Williams, Walter LaFeber, and John Lewis Gaddis.\n\nOfficials in the Truman administration placed responsibility for postwar tensions on the Soviets, claiming that Stalin had violated promises made at Yalta, pursued a policy of expansionism in Eastern Europe, and conspired to spread communism throughout the world. Historians associated with the \"Wisconsin School\" of diplomatic history such as Williams, however, placed responsibility for the breakdown of postwar peace mostly on the U.S., citing a range of U.S. efforts to isolate and confront the Soviet Union well before the end of World War II. According to Williams and later writers influenced by his work—such as LaFeber, author of the popular survey text \"America, Russia, and the Cold War\" (published in ten editions between 1967 and 2006)—U.S. policymakers shared an overarching concern with maintaining capitalism domestically. In order to ensure this goal, they pursued a policy of ensuring an \"Open Door\" to foreign markets for U.S. business and agriculture across the world. From this perspective, a growing economy domestically went hand-in-hand with the consolidation of U.S. power internationally.\n\nWilliams and LaFeber also dismissed the assumption that Soviet leaders were committed to postwar \"expansionism.\" They cited evidence that Soviet Union's occupation of Eastern Europe had a defensive rationale, and Soviet leaders saw themselves as attempting to avoid encirclement by the United States and its allies. From this view, the Soviet Union was so weak and devastated after the end of the Second World War as to be unable to pose any serious threat to the U.S., which emerged after 1945 as the sole world power not economically devastated by the war, and also as the sole possessor of the atomic bomb until 1949.\n\nGaddis, however, argues that the conflict was less the lone fault of one side or the other and more the result of a plethora of conflicting interests and misperceptions between the two superpowers, propelled by domestic politics and bureaucratic inertia. While Gaddis does not hold either side as entirely responsible for the onset of the conflict, he argues that the Soviets should be held at least slightly more accountable for the problems. According to Gaddis, Stalin was in a much better position to compromise than his Western counterparts, given his much broader power within his own regime than Truman, who had to contend with Congress and was often undermined by vociferous political opposition at home. Asking if it were possible to predict if the wartime alliance would fall apart within a matter of months, leaving in its place nearly a half century of cold war, Gaddis wrote in a 1997 essay, \"Geography, demography, and tradition contributed to this outcome but did not determine it. It took men, responding unpredictably to circumstances, to forge the chain of causation; and it took [Stalin] in particular, responding predictably to his own authoritarian, paranoid, and narcissistic predisposition, to lock it into place.\"\n\nGlobal historian Prasenjit Duara has placed the issue in a global context: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47147045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47147045", "title": "Press review", "text": "Press review\n\nPress review is a summary of several press articles (usually the press of the day).\n\nIn Romania, it is considered to be fair to copy text from newspapers for press review purposes provided that the text copied must be under 500 symbols and it must be less than half of the source newspaper article.\nAlso, the source must be mentioned.\n\nThis restriction was requested by the (RPC) which represent many but not all the media outlets in the country, and although it is widely used, it is not legally binding.\n"}
{"id": "33959919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33959919", "title": "Riwaayat", "text": "Riwaayat\n\nRiwaayat earlier Riwaayat-e-Maihar is a classical music event which sticks to the classical form of rendition. The group belongs to Maihar gharana. The event features fine artistes who still practice the traditional way of rendering music.\n\nRiwaayat meaning \"Tradition\" in Urdu, started in 2010 in Hyderabad at Hyderabad Central University, S.N.School of Performing Arts & Communication.\n\n\nThe event was held on 9 and 10 December 2011 at Vidyaranya High School, Hyderabad\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4200343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200343", "title": "Stone louse", "text": "Stone louse\n\nThe stone louse (\"Petrophaga lorioti\", in German Steinlaus) is a fictitious animal created by German humorist Loriot to parody nature documentaries. It was primarily featured in a video sketch, as well as being a fictitious entry in the German medical encyclopedic dictionary \"Pschyrembel Klinisches Wörterbuch\".\n\nIn a popular mockumentary titled The Stone-Louse by Loriot, Loriot parodied \"Ein Platz für Tiere\" (\"A Place for Animals\", a longstanding TV series about endangered wildlife) by the famous German zoologist and documentary filmmaker Dr. Bernhard Grzimek (ARD, 20.47-51). The mockumentary chronicles Loriot's 1976 \"discovery\" of the stone-louse. The mockumentary has had .4 million views, despite the fact that it is only available in the German language.\n\nThe \"science documentary\" factually describes the stone-louse as a rodent-like mite in the order \"Fictional Rodents\", between 20 and 24 mm in length which consumes about 28 kilograms of stone per day, depending on the density and tastiness of said stone. Loriot gives some deadpan comments on a filmed building implosion, mentioning the \"shy rodent\" to be at lunch in its natural habitat (before the implosion). As the building vanishes into dust and rubble in the background, Loriot caringly speaks about the \"possierliche kleine Nager\" (\"endearing little rodents\") and concludes with some \"alarming\" points about the endangered status of the entire species.\n\nIn 1983 the clinical dictionary \"Pschyrembel\", from German scientific publisher Walter de Gruyter, contained information about the stone louse for the first time in printed form. The short article is thought to be based mainly on Loriot's TV documentary.\n\nExtending Loriot's parody, the \"Pschyrembel\" informs about the louse's \"value\" in fighting bladder, gall and kidney stones. The subspecies \"gallstone louse\" and \"kidney stone louse\" are mentioned only briefly due to \"lack of further scientific data\".\n\nIn the 257th edition of the \"Pschyrembel\", the authors omitted the fictitious entry. The following edition, in 1997, featured it again due to protests from readers and was presented on Frankfurt Book Fair as the correct \"Steinlaus inside\" version.\n\nRecently discovered \"insights\" found their way into this new version, which even speculated about the stone louse's participation in the fall of the Berlin Wall, since the wall was mainly placed in areas \"commonly inhabited by the stone louse\". That theory was reinforced by \"discoveries\" that the stone louse might have been used by the Spartans to bring down the ancient Athenians' Long Walls. Other hypotheses connect the stone louse with the end of the Stone Age.\n\nThe \"Pschyrembel\" denies that the stone louse has become extinct, and refers to recent \"sightings\" by a local expert on stone lice, \"Dr. Schlereth\", at construction sites in Kronach, Bavaria. The 260th and () most recent edition extends the article even further, referring to results in homeopathy.\n\nThe fictional Member of Parliament Jakob Maria Mierscheid has contributed to the (fictional) \"3. Hoechster Steinlaus-Symposium, XII (3) in Frankfurt\".\n\nA contribution to a Senckenberg Museum Symposium in Frankfurt 1999 mentioned \"dangers\" posed by stone lice to the protection of architectural heritage and monuments.\n\nWithin Dortmund Zoo some stone lice are \"tended\" and \"on display\".\n\nPetrascheck's handbook of \"Lagerstättenlehre\" (ores and mineral resources ) refers to weathering effects of the animal.\n\nIris Ritzmann Lithophagus entry in Enzyklopädie Medizingeschichte claims a predecessor, the \"Steinbiter\" or \"Lithophagus\", mentioned already in Zedlers Universallexikon. She states a 19th-century use of homeopathic remedies, based on Lapis infernalis C 30 had resulted in the extinction of the species.\n\nAccording to a scientific paper of Deutsche Bibliothek a ballpark guess of the amount of stone lice in the neighborhood of German libraries amounted to 113.3 billion. The author, Dr. Florian Seiffert, assumes that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, stone lice sought another ecological niche and found it in libraries. The Berlin wall case has been confirmed as well in English sources.\n\nThe German Insurance Catalogue for the German Public Health Service (only the G-DRG Version 2003/2004) temporarily mentioned Stonelouse Parasitism on men as a possible illness and gave some indications about average treatment, cost tags and remedies. The \"Color Atlas of Pathology\" by Thieme Medical Publishers refers to \"Petrophaga lorioti\" as a therapeutic infestation that could be used in the management of stone disorders.\n\nThe municipality of Zürich has issued official guidance for citizens having trouble with stone lice.\n\n"}
{"id": "29783704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29783704", "title": "The Chameleon (film)", "text": "The Chameleon (film)\n\nThe Chameleon is a 2010 film directed by Jean-Paul Salomé and co-written with Natalie Carter. The screenplay is based upon the true story of Frédéric Bourdin who impersonated a missing child named Nicholas Barclay in San Antonio, Texas, in the 1990s. Much of the true story was incorporated into the film although the years have been altered and the location was moved to Baton Rouge, Louisiana.\n\nA young man (Marc-André Grondin) in France shaves off all his body hair and turns himself in to the police. The man claims to be a 16-year-old boy from Louisiana named Nicholas Mark Randall, who had been missing for four years. His story is that he was kidnapped by a child prostitution ring in France who physically altered his appearance.\n\nHe is reunited with his family who immediately have their suspicions regarding his story. His mother (Ellen Barkin) and half brother Brendan (Nick Stahl) do not seem to accept him, and many questions are open regarding whether this man could in fact be their lost family member, considering he bears little resemblance to the boy who left and now talks with a French accent. His sister Kathy (Emilie de Ravin) accepts his story without hesitation and eventually so does his possible mother.\n\nF.B.I. Agent Jennifer Johnson (Famke Janssen) strongly suspects that he is lying because she has had extensive experiences with people lying to her, including a man who was a child murderer whom she had dated. Meanwhile, his story starts to unravel and the true story of what happened to Nicholas starts to emerge.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival in the United States.\n\nThe film received mostly mixed to negative reviews from critics. Review aggregator Metacritic gave the film a 41 out of 100, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\", based on 5 reviews. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" said the film barely addresses the central issue of Nicholas being an imposter, except at the film's \"unsatisfying, sentimental conclusion. Aaron Hillis of \"The Village Voice\" said the film's psychological, emotional, and moral implications are not explored.\n\n"}
{"id": "535623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535623", "title": "Trap street", "text": "Trap street\n\nIn cartography, a trap street is a fictitious entry in the form of a misrepresented street on a map, often outside the area the map nominally covers, for the purpose of \"trapping\" potential copyright violators of the map who, if caught, would be unable to explain the inclusion of the \"trap street\" on their map as innocent. On maps that are not of streets, other \"copyright trap\" features (such as nonexistent towns, or mountains with the wrong elevations) may be inserted or altered for the same purpose.\n\nTrap streets are often nonexistent streets; but sometimes, rather than actually depicting a street where none exists, a map will misrepresent the nature of a street in a fashion that can still be used to detect copyright violators but is less likely to interfere with navigation. For instance, a map might add nonexistent bends to a street, or depict a major street as a narrow lane, without changing its location or its connections to other streets.\n\nTrap streets are rarely acknowledged by publishers. One known case is a popular driver's atlas for the city of Athens, Greece, which has a warning inside its front cover that potential copyright violators should beware of trap streets.\n\nIn an edition of the BBC Two programme \"Map Man\", first broadcast 17 October 2005, a spokesperson for the Geographers' A-Z Map Company claimed there are \"about 100\" trap streets included in the London A-Z Street atlas. One such street, \"Bartlett Place\", a genuine but misnamed walkway (named after Kieran Bartlett, an employee at Geographers’ A-Z Map Company), was identified in the programme and will appear in future editions under its real name, Broadway Walk.\n\nIt has been suggested that Google Earth placed Sandy Island, New Caledonia as the geographical analog to a trap street, although historical evidence implies that it originated as a cartographical error and Google simply passed the error along.\n\nTrap streets are not copyrightable under the federal law of the United States. In \"Nester's Map & Guide Corp. v. Hagstrom Map Co.\", a United States federal court found that copyright traps are not themselves protectable by copyright. There, the court stated: \"[t]o treat 'false' facts interspersed among actual facts and represented as actual facts as fiction would mean that no one could ever reproduce or copy actual facts without risk of reproducing a false fact and thereby violating a copyright ... If such were the law, information could never be reproduced or widely disseminated.\" (Id. at 733)\n\nIn a 2001 case, The Automobile Association in the United Kingdom agreed to settle a case for £20,000,000 when it was caught copying Ordnance Survey maps. In this case, the identifying \"fingerprints\" were not deliberate errors but rather stylistic features such as the width of roads.\n\nIn another case, the Singapore Land Authority sued Virtual Map, an online publisher of maps, for infringing on its copyright. The Singapore Land Authority stated in its case that there were deliberate errors in maps they had provided to Virtual Map years earlier. Virtual Map denied this and insisted that it had done its own cartography.\n\nThe 2010 novel \"Kraken\" by China Miéville features the trap streets of the \"London A-Z\" being places where the magical denizens of the city can exist without risk of being disturbed by normal folk.\n\nA 2013 film, \"Trap Street\", inverts the usual meaning of a \"trap street\", becoming a real street which is deliberately obscured or removed from a map—and anyone who attempts to identify it by placing it on public record is then \"trapped\".\n\nThe 2015 \"Doctor Who\" episode \"Face the Raven\" features a hidden street where alien asylum seekers have taken shelter. Due to a psychic field that subconsciously makes observers ignore it, outsiders consider it a trap street when they see it on maps. One scene involves the character Clara Oswald discussing the definition of \"trap street\". The episode's working title was also \"Trap Street\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5748800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5748800", "title": "Tribal Gathering", "text": "Tribal Gathering\n\nTribal Gathering was a dance music festival that catered for different types of dance music cultures such as drum and bass, techno and house.\n\nThe original promoters of Universe (Paul Shurey, Rob Vega, former Bath Rugby Captain Roger Spurrell, Tennant and Jill Trick) had been organising events since the heady days of 1989 when raves such as \"Sunrise\", \"Raindance\" and \"Perception\" were in their pomp. They wanted to organise an event to bring together the different sub-cultures of the dance world and also to have a festival feel to it.\n\nThe first Tribal Gathering took place Friday 30 April 1993 at Lower Pertwood Farm, Warminster, Wiltshire, England. 25,000 people attended to see acts such as Laurent Garnier, Carl Cox, Slipmatt, DiY Sound System and Pete Tong.\n\nIn March 1994 they opened the legendary London night club 'Final Frontier', at Club UK in Wandsworth. Weekly nights ran for several years, relocating in 1997 to the Complex Club in Islington. Each week featured numerous headline djs and live acts, the likes of which had never been seen before. A proud moment for the promoters was when 'Final Frontier' was voted number 5 in Musik Magazines top 50 clubs of all time, just behind Studio 54, Dorian Gray, Paradise Garage and Limelight.\n\nAlso in 1993 the \"Universe - World Techno Tribe\" compilation CD was released in Europe on Rising High Records, on Sony Music in Japan and Moonshine Music in the USA. Compiled and mixed by Mr Oz it reached number 4 in the Gallup album charts. Subsequent CDs were later released on MMS records and FFRR.\n\nThe Criminal Justice Bill of 1994 discouraged massive outdoor raves.\nIn 1994 Tribal Gathering moved to Munich Germany and in cooperation with \"N.A.S.A/ Hannover Nice And Safe Attitude\" managed to stage one of the most exciting event in Munich and Universe/Tribal Gathering was selected as the best event in Germany in 1994.\n\nIn the UK Tribal Gathering teamed up with the Mean Fiddler organisation to organise more legal festivals. The next event took place in May 1995, UK Tribal Gathering at Otmoor Park, Beckley, Oxfordshire. Headline acts included The Prodigy, Orbital and Moby\n\nThe 1996 version of the UK Tribal Gathering, took place in June at Luton Hoo, Bedfordshire with 30,000 turning up for to see sets by Leftfield, The Chemical Brothers, Black Grape, Goldie, Daft Punk and others.\n\nIn 1997, at Luton Hoo, Kraftwerk were the headliners of the festival, playing for the first time in the UK since 1992. The show was a monumental success, even though there was no new material released since The Mix.\n\nBy 1998, the Tribal Gathering name had grown into a brand. There were albums, a TV Show and plans to establish events worldwide in the pipeline. However their things did not go to schedule and the 1998 event did not take place due to Universe and Mean Fiddler's legal battle of the Tribal Gathering name.\n\nIn 1999 David Vincent buys the Tribal Gathering name off Paul Shurey & Ian Jenkinson with the aim to bringing the event back to life.\n\nThe Tribal Gathering name was revived in 2000 at the legendary Sankeys Soap club, Manchester. The weekly legendary \"Tribal Sessions\" club night took place at Sankeys with DJs generally playing House, Techno, Tech-house, Acid House & Breaks & Beats. Tribal Sessions djs included Richie Hawtin, Jeff Mills, Carl Cox, Sasha, Steve Lawler, Laurent Garnier and many others. Tribal Sessions won many awards from Mixmag best club of the year 2004. There was also 2 exhibitions in Manchester Museum of Science and Industry for the brand for providing significant culture for the city of Manchester.\n\nIn 2002 Tribal Gathering returned as a weekender at Southport Pontins to a sell out 5000 capacity crowd with DJs Sasha, Dave Clarke, Deep Dish, Derrick Carter, Erol Alkan amongst others performing with many rave reviews. There was a follow up event in November 2003.\n\nIn 2003 Tribal Gathering held the first legal warehouse party for over 10 years in a \"secret\" Manchester location, which turned out to be a warehouse previously used as a set for the movie 24 Hour Party People, in which it was decorated to replicate The Haçienda nightclub. 12,000 people attended where artistes like Groove Armada, Laurent Garnier, Jeff Mills, Deep Dish appeared. The event won best event of the year 2003 with Mixmag and was voted second best party ever by Mixmag in 2004.\n\nIn 2004 Tribal Gathering held a 2 day warehouse party in a Manchester City Centre in association with the Hacienda with DJs Groove Armada, Graeme Park and Mike Pickering.\n\nIn July 2005, a Tribal Gathering festival was organised, in aid of the war victims in Darfur, Sudan, to take place again at Luton Hoo but it was cancelled due to the terrorist attacks that took place on 7 July in London. There has not been a follow up event since but rumours suggest a return event is planned for 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5079762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5079762", "title": "Walam Olum", "text": "Walam Olum\n\nThe Walam Olum or Walum Olum, usually translated as \"Red Record\" or \"Red Score,\" is purportedly a historical narrative of the Lenape (Delaware) Native American tribe. The document has provoked controversy as to its authenticity since its publication in the 1830s by botanist and antiquarian Constantine Samuel Rafinesque. Ethnographic studies in the 1980s and analysis in the 1990s of Rafinesque's manuscripts have produced significant evidence that the document is a hoax. Some Delaware people, however, believe Rafinesque based his writing on actual Lenape stories.\nIn 1836 in his first volume of \"The American Nations\", Rafinesque published what he represented as an English translation of the entire text of the \"Walam Olum\", as well as a portion in the Lenape language.\n\nThe \"Walam Olum\" includes a creation myth, a deluge myth, and the narrative of a series of migrations. Rafinesque and others claimed or interpreted the migrations to have begun in Asia. The Walam Olum suggested a migration over the Bering Strait took place 3,600 years ago.\n\nThe text included a long list of chiefs' names, which appears to provide a timescale for the epic. According to Rafinesque, the chiefs appeared as early as 1600 BCE.\n\nThe narrative begins with the formation of the universe, the shaping of the Earth, and the creation of the first people, by the Great Manitou. Then, as the Great Manitou creates more creatures, an evil manitou creates others, such as flies. Although all is harmonious at first, an evil being brings unhappiness, sickness, disasters and death. A great snake attacked the people and drove them from their homes. The snake flooded the land and made monsters in the water, but the Creator made a giant turtle, on which the surviving people rode out the flood, and prayed for the waters to recede. When land emerged again, they were in a place of snow and cold, so they developed their skills of house-building and hunting, and began explorations to find more temperate lands. Eventually, they chose to head east from the land of the Turtle to the land of the Snake, walking across the frozen ocean and first reaching a land of spruce trees.\n\nAfter a few generations (from this point on, chiefs of the tribe are named), they began to spread into the adjoining territories. Many generations passed (the characteristics of each chief briefly described), until a large part of the nation decided to invade the territory of the Talegawi people, aided by the northern Talamatan. Although the invasion eventually succeeded, the Talamatan later became hostile, but were soon subdued, and a further long period of consolidation began. Slow expansion into the rich eastern lands eventually reached another sea, where, after generations, the first white men arrived in ships.\n\nThere the text ends, though Rafinesque did publish an additional \"Fragment: On the History of the Linapis since abt. 1600, when the Wallamolum closes\" which takes the story up to his own time. This (which incidentally names the composer of the original Walam Olum as one Lekhibit) exists only as a purported translation by John Burns, who has himself never been satisfactorily identified.\n\nRafinesque claimed the original narrative was recorded in pictographs on birch bark, or cedar wood tablets or sticks (Rafinesque explained that \"Olum... implies a record, a notched stick, an engraved piece of wood or bark.\") He said \"the late Dr. Ward of Indiana\" acquired the materials in 1820 from a Lenape patient in return for a medical cure, and eventually passed them on to Rafinesque. From Rafinesque's personal notes and a family legend, this Dr. Ward was tentatively identified in 1954 as Dr John Russell Ward, a Kentucky physician who died in 1834, but a potential Indiana candidate has been identified: Malthus A. Ward (1794–1863, so not \"late\" in the sense of \"deceased\") who spent some of his early career in Indiana, moved to New England in 1823 and from 1831 was professor of natural history at the University of Georgia. He said the explanatory transcription of verses in the Lenape language came from a different source, in 1822. After his translation was published, Rafinesque said he lost the actual plaques.\n\nWhen Rafinesque wrote an essay on the Lenape language in October 1834, he did not mention the \"Walam Olum\" at all. It was two months later that he submitted a supplement about it. This was shortly after he acquired a list of authentic Lenape names compiled by John Heckewelder. Rafinesque's translation of the 183 verses totals fewer than 3,000 words. In his manuscript he juxtaposed the pictographs with the verses in Lenape language that explained them. This material is now held at the University of Pennsylvania and has been digitized. Any items in Rafinesque's large collection of specimens, which did not find a ready sale after his death were apparently destroyed. There is no evidence other than Rafinesque's testimony that the original sticks existed. Scholars have only his work to study.\n\nTwentieth-century archaeology has confirmed that by Rafinesque's time, Native Americans had been using birch bark scrolls for over 200 years. In 1965 the archaeologist Kenneth Kidd reported on two finds of \"trimmed and fashioned pieces of birch bark on which have been scratched figures of animals, birds, men, mythological creatures, and esoteric symbols\" in the Head-of-the-Lakes region of Ontario. Some of these resembled scrolls used by the Mide Society of the Ojibwa. A scroll from one of these finds was later dated to about 1560 +/-70 CE.\n\nWhile there was controversy about the \"Walam Olum\", it was treated as an accurate account by historians, anthropologists, and archaeologists for many years. Ephraim G. Squier, widely regarded as an influential figure of American 19th-century archaeology, republished the text in 1849. He accepted it as genuine, partially on internal evidence but also because the educated Indian chief (Kah-ge-ga-gah-bowh) (George Copway), to whom he showed the manuscript, \"unhesitatingly pronounced it authentic, in respect not only to the original signs and accompanying explanations in the Delaware dialect, but also in the general ideas and conceptions which it embodies. He also bore testimony to the fidelity of the translation.\" More recently, Barnhart noted that Copway was \"fluent in his native dialect and knowledgeable of the traditions of the Ojibwa and other Algonquian groups such as the Lenape, but he was certainly not an expert on the traditions and language of the Delaware.\" On February 16, 1849, after the documented was republished, Henry Rowe Schoolcraft wrote to Squier that he believed the document is \"well sustained by comparisons with such transcripts as I have obtained from bark scrolls, and the tabular pieces of wood called music boards\".\nIn 1885, after the third printing, the well-known ethnographer Daniel G. Brinton published a new translation of the text. Brinton explained, \"In several cases the figures or symbols appear to me to bear out the corrected translations which I have given of the lines, and not that of Rafinesque. This, it will be observed, is an evidence, not merely that he must have received this text from other hands, but the figures also, and weighs heavily in favor of the authentic character of both.\"\n\nThe 1885 edition may have been read by ethnographer and explorer James Mooney. Published in 1888, his \"Myths of the Cherokee\" references the \"Walum Olum.\" In his \"Historical sketch of the Cherokee\" at the beginning of the work he attempts to adduce the origins of the term 'Cherokee:' \"...among other synonyms for the tribe are Rickahockan or Rechahecrian, the ancient Powhatan name, and Tallige', or Tallige'wi, the ancient name used in the \"Walam Olum\" chronicle of the Lenape'.\"\n\nIn the 1930s, Erminie Voegelin attempted to find evidence of \"Walam Olum\" narrative elements in independent Lenni-Lenape and Delaware sources; the parallels were at best inconclusive. Doubts about the text's authenticity began to grow. In 1952 renowned archaeologist James Bennett Griffin publicly announced that he “had no confidence in the 'Walam Olum'.” Historian William A. Hunter also believed the text a hoax. In 1954 archaeologist John G. Witthoft found linguistic inaccuracies and suspicious correspondences of words in the texts to 19th-century Lenape-English word lists. He concluded that Rafinesque composed the narrative from Lenape texts already in print. The following year, he announced in the \"Journal of American Linguistics\" the start of a \"Walam Olum\" project for further study, but this project did not take place.\n\nIn 1954, a multidisciplinary team of scholars from the Indiana Historical Society published another translation and commentary. They stated, \"The 'Red Score' is a worthy subject for students of aboriginal culture.\" A reviewer noted that the team was not able to identify Dr. Ward, and he concluded that the document's origins \"are undeniably clouded.\" Anthropologist Della Collins Cook commented on the 1954 study, \"The scholarly essays are best read as exercises in stating one's contradictory conclusions in a manner designed to give as little offense as possible to one's sponsor.\" Other translations and commentaries have followed, including translations into languages other than English.\n\nSelwyn Dewdney, art educator and researcher into Ojibwa art and anthropology, wrote the only comprehensive study of the Ojibwa birch bark scrolls (\"wiigwaasabakoon\"). In it he wrote: \"A surviving pictographic record on wood, preserved by the Algonquian-speaking Delaware long after they had been shifted from their original homeland on Atlantic shores at the mouth of the Delaware River, offers evidence of how ancient and widespread is the myth of a flood (see Deluge (mythology)) involving a powerful water \"manitou\". The record is known as the \"Walum Olum\" (Painted Sticks), and was interpreted for George Copway by a Delaware Elder... Apart from the reference to man's moral wickedness, the mood and imagery of the \"Walum Olum\" convey an archaic atmosphere that surely predates European Influence.\" A review of his study by the anthropologist Edward S Rogers states \"Dewdney is apt to rely upon ethnographic generalizations that were in vogue a quarter of a century ago, but in the intervening years have been modified or disproven...Dewdney handles ethnohistorical matters no better than he does ethnographic topics... Dewdney has deceived the unwary that do not realize that the exact distributions and certain proposed migrations of Ojibwa still remain unresolved. A final word, but one that is of paramount importance, must be voiced. How will the Ojibwa react to this book? Most likely, negatively, from the few comments received to date. The fact that \"Sacred\" information is being divulged will be resented.\"\n\nKentucky-based writer Joe Napora wrote a modern translation of the text, which was published in 1992. At the time he thought the \"Walam Olum\" was genuine. In his preface, he wrote, \"My belief is that the Walam Olum is closely related to the Mide Scrolls that Dewdney wrote so eloquently about in 'Sacred Scrolls of the Ojibway.'\"\n\nBy the 1980s, however, ethnologists had collected enough independent information \"to discount the \"Walam olum\" completely as a tradition\". Herbert C. Kraft, an expert on the Lenape, had long suspected the document to be a fraud. He stated that it did not square with the archaeological record of migrations by the prehistoric ancestors of the Lenape. In addition, he cited a 1985 survey conducted among Lenape elders by ethnologists David M. Oestreicher and James Rementer that revealed traditional Lenape had never heard of the narrative. The older Lenape people said that they \"found its text puzzling and often incomprehensible.\" Oestreicher examined the Lenape language text with fluent native speaker, Lucy Parks Blalock, and they found problems such as frequent use of English idioms.\n\nIn 1991 Steven Williams summarized the history of the case and the evidence against the document, lumping it with many other famous archaeological frauds. The existence of genuine historic pictogram documents elsewhere does not overcome the textual and ethnological problems of the \"Walam Olum\".\n\nIn 1994, and afterwards, textual evidence that the Walam Olum was a hoax was supplied by David M. Oestreicher in “Unmasking the Walam Olum: A 19th Century Hoax.” Oestreicher examined Rafinesque's original manuscript and \"found it replete with crossed-out Lenape words that had been replaced with others that better matched his English 'translation.' In other words, Rafinesque had been translating from English to Lenape, rather than the other way round\". In general, he found a variety of evidence that the \"Walam Olum\" was not an authentic historical record but was composed by someone having only a slight familiarity with the Lenape language. Oestreicher argued that Rafinesque crafted the linguistic text from specific sources on the Delaware Language published by the American Philosophical Society and elsewhere. Further, he said that the supposedly \"Lenape\" pictographs were hybrids from published Egyptian, Chinese, and Mayan sources. \nBarnhart concurs, stating that \"the pictographs are in no way comparable to the figures found on the stone carvings or petroglyphs found in \"Lenapehoking\", the traditional homeland of the Lenape. David Oestreicher asserted that the stories were a conglomerate assembled from numerous sources from different cultures that spanned the globe. Barnhart was of the opinion that Rafinesque created the \"Walam Olum\" in hopes of winning the international \"Prix Volney\" contest hosted in Paris, and Barnhart thought that Rafinesque wanted to prove his long-held theories regarding the peopling of America. Oestreicher’s findings were summarized by Herbert Kraft in his study, \"The Lenape-Delaware Indian Heritage: 10,000 BCE to 2000 CE.\", and by Jennifer M. Lehmann in \"Social Theory as Politics in Knowledge\".\n\nLater David Oestreicher wrote that he had received a direct communication from Joe Napora. Oestreicher wrote that Napora wrote, \"[H]e now recognises that the 'Walam Olum' is indeed a hoax...and was dismayed that the sources upon whom he relied had been so negligent in their investigation of the document and that the hoax should have been continued as long as it has\".\n\nOestreicher's very detailed analyses have not found a wide audience, but they have made it possible to go a step further, and study the thinking and cultural assumptions of earlier researchers (for example by examining how they treated features of the \"Walam Olum\" which should have been clear evidence that it was a fake).\n\nA recent biography of Rafinesque concluded: \"There is now very good reason to believe that he fabricated important data and documents... The most egregious example is the Lenni Lenape migration saga, 'Walam Olum', which has perplexed scholars for one and a half centuries. Rafinesque wrote the 'Walam Olum' believing it to be \"authentic\" because it accorded with his own belief—he was merely recording and giving substance to what must be true. It was a damaging, culpably dishonest act, which misled scholars in search of the real truth, far more damaging than his childish creations, which could be easily dismissed; this was more than mischief.\"\n\nMany traditional Lenape believe they have lived in their homeland (that is, in the New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York area) forever. The Delaware Tribe of Indians, located in eastern Oklahoma, originally endorsed the document but withdrew their endorsement on February 11, 1997 after reviewing the evidence. The Lenape Nation of Pennsylvania emphasize their belief that they have been in the area for 10,000 years. Whilst concluding that the burden of proof lies on those who believe the \"Walam Olum\" to be authentic, Barnhart states that \"whatever one's position on the 'Walam Olum', its controversial place in the history of American anthropology is most definitively secured.\"\n\nPaula Gunn Allen's poetry collection, \"Shadow Country\", from 1982 contains a reference to the \"Walam Olum\". In Part II of the poem, \"ANOTHER LONG WALK\", it says:\"Quantify the myths\"\"symbolic utterance of the Grandfather (Lenape)\"\"count / years on the Red Score\"\"wich does not\"\"count for history\"\"the Red Score\" is the reference, and is also related to the mention of \"Lenape\" in line 2. \n\n\n"}
