{"id": "55036861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55036861", "title": "1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery", "text": "1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery\n\nThe 1972 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts robbery, sometimes called the Skylight Caper, took place very early in the morning of September 4 of that year. Three armed robbers used a skylight under repair to gain entry to the museum from its roof, tied up the three guards on duty, and left on foot with 18 paintings, including a rare Rembrandt landscape and works by Jan Brueghel the Elder, Corot, Delacroix, Rubens, and Thomas Gainsborough, as well as some figurines and jewellery. One of the Brueghels was returned by the thieves as an initiative to start ransom negotiations. None of the other paintings has ever been recovered and the robbers have never been arrested or even publicly identified, although there is at least one informal suspect.\n\nCollectively, the missing paintings have been valued at $11.7 million in 2017 dollars; although their value may have diminished since the theft as scholars have called the attribution of some of the works into question. However, the Rembrandt alone has been valued at $1 million; in 2003 \"The Globe and Mail\" estimated it to have appreciated in value to $20 million. The thieves appeared to know what works they were looking for; many of the works had been part of \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a travelling exhibition that had been to many museums in the U.S. and Canada prior to Expo 67, as well as some other special exhibits put on by the museum in the preceding years. It is not only the largest art theft in Canada but the largest theft in Canadian history.\n\nInvestigation of the crime proved difficult in the early going, since it occurred over the Labour Day holiday weekend, when many of the museum's officials including its director were vacationing far away from Montreal. It was further complicated by continuing news coverage of the Blue Bird Café fire, Montreal's deadliest arson, three days earlier, dominating the headlines; the next day the killings of Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the Olympics in Munich further diminished media coverage. A sting operation conceived after the thieves returned the Brueghel (later reattributed to his students) and mailed photos of the other works to the museum seeking a ransom payment went awry; a later attempt to negotiate their return cost the museum $10,000 with no results.\n\nThe thieves took advantage of weakened security, resulting from the renovations at the museum, which had left the skylight's alarm disabled. The renovations and the security flaws were themselves a consequence of the museum's tightening finances, which had worsened during the 1960s as many of the wealthy Anglophone community in Montreal that had supported the museum since its founding in 1860 began to leave for Toronto due to increasing concerns over Quebec separatism, especially after terrorist acts by the Front de libération du Québec had led to martial law in the Montreal area two years earlier. Sûreté du Québec, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Interpol continue to investigate the crime. Theories as to who might be responsible have ranged from the Montreal Mafia to Quebec separatists.\n\nThe Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA) was established in 1860 as the Art Association of Montreal, to encourage art appreciation in the city. It did not start to exhibit works until the late 1870s and 1880s, when wealthy patrons who had prospered from Canada's industrialization began to donate both cash and works, and it was soon able to build Canada's first space explicitly intended for the exhibition of art. In 1913 it built what is currently its main building, now known as the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion, on Sherbrooke Street in the neighborhood known even today as the Golden Square Mile, because it was home to many of the wealthiest and most successful families in Canada.\n\nThese patrons were predominantly of British descent, all members of Montreal's Anglophone elite. At the end of the 1950s, their political and economic domination of the city began to yield to its majority Francophone population, as Quebec separatism began to gain political influence in the province as a whole. Fearing the consequences should the province succeed in seceding, and mindful of the terrorist attacks of the Front de libération du Québec which had led to martial law being declared in the city in 1970, the Anglophone elite began leaving the city over the course of the 1960s.\n\nThis slowly deprived the museum of much of its traditional financial support. In 1957, Bill Bantey, a former journalist who was appointed the museum's head of public relations, began reaching out for the first time in its history to Francophones, with some success. But the contributions from newer philanthropists in the city were not as much as their predecessors had been able to give, and public funds from the province only covered 40 percent of the museum's annual budget.\n\nAs a result, the museum was having to cut back financially in the early 1970s, going from a strictly private institution to a semi-public nonprofit organization. The museum needed to expand, and it needed to renovate the 1913 William Sutherland Maxwell Beaux-Arts building on Sherbrooke Street. The latter was particularly unsuited to the demands of a late-20th century art museum, with many cramped rooms and corridors. The museum planned to close it in 1973 for a three-year renovation project.\n\nOn two prior occasions thieves took, or attempted to take, works from the museum.\n\nOne night in 1933, a person who had hidden in the museum overnight passed 14 paintings, mostly by Canadian artists, to someone else through an open window in the women's lavatory. Later the museum received a ransom note asking $10,000 for the return of the paintings. Three months later, the English-language \"Montreal Star\" and the French \"La Presse\" each received half of one of the paintings in the mail. A note along with them said if a ransom of 25 percent of the remaining paintings' total value was not paid, they too would be returned in pieces.\n\nThe paintings were recovered before that could occur when Paul Thouin, a petty criminal, was arrested after burglarizing a rail freight car. During interrogation, he confessed to stealing the paintings and led police to where he had buried them, wrapped in a tarpaulin with newspapers, in a one-metre-deep (3 ft) sandpit near the village of L'Épiphanie a short distance northeast of Montreal. Thouin, who had shot and killed a police officer attempting to apprehend him in a railroad warehouse, was reportedly terrified at the prospect of being returned to prison for what would likely be a very long time. He committed suicide by poisoning himself with a concealed dose of strychnine in the police lockup that night, before he could stand trial.\n\nA gang of armed robbers attempted to steal some van Gogh paintings during a special exhibition of the artist's work at the museum in 1960. They were foiled and escaped. They have never been identified.\n\nIn Montreal, Labour Day weekend of 1972 began with two major news events, neither of them positive. On the night of Friday, September 1, four men who had been refused entry to a downtown country-and-western bar for being too intoxicated retaliated by setting the club's steps afire; the ensuing blaze killed 37, making it the deadliest fire in the city in 45 years. On the following evening, the Soviet national hockey team defeated their Canadian counterparts 7–3 in the first game of the Summit Series at the Montreal Forum. Canadians, who had expected their team, composed of National Hockey League stars, to overwhelmingly defeat the Soviets, who had only begun competing in international ice hockey a quarter-century earlier, at what Canadians considered their national sport were stunned. Fans in Montreal were eagerly looking ahead to the next game in the series, to be held Monday evening in Toronto.\n\nAt the museum, the board president, director, and director of security were all on vacation in either the United States or Mexico for the holiday weekend. Bantey, the public relations director, was the most senior official in charge.\n\nShortly after midnight on the morning of September 4, police believe, a group of three men gathered out in front of the museum on Sherbrooke Street. They went to the museum's west wall, between it and the Church of St. Andrew and St. Paul. One of the men, who had the same sort of pick-equipped boots used by utility-company workers to climb telephone poles, went up a tree next to the museum and got high enough in it to gain access to the roof. He was able to find a ladder, and lowered it to the other two, who climbed up.\n\nOnce the group was on the roof, they went to a skylight that had been covered by a plastic sheet in the course of some ongoing work. They opened the skylight, without setting off any alarm as the plastic sheet had rendered it inoperative, and lowered a nylon rope to the museum's second floor. All three slid down.\n\nIt had taken them almost an hour and a half to gain entry to the museum. Shortly after they did, around 1:30 a.m., one of the three guards on duty was walking to the kitchen to get some tea. He encountered the thieves, their faces covered by ski masks, who fired both barrels of a pump action shotgun into the ceilings to get his attention and made him lie down on the floor. The noise brought the other two guards, who were unable to resist, and soon all three guards were taken to a lecture hall where they were bound and gagged.\n\nThere, one of the robbers, who carried a .38-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun, stood guard while the other two removed paintings, jewellery and figurines from their displays and brought them to the museum's shipping department. The thieves originally seemed to have planned to leave via the same skylight they had come in through, but eventually they concluded it would take too much time to put together a system of pulleys to get themselves and the stolen artwork out. After finding that one of the guards had a set of keys to one of the museum's panel trucks, they decided instead to flee that way.\n\nHowever, this alternative also went awry. They chose to exit through one of the museum's side entrances, where an alarm went off as they did so. Leaving half their take behind, they fled on foot down Sherbrooke.\n\nBack in the museum, one of the guards worked to free himself. An hour after the robbery ended, around 3 a.m., he succeeded and called Bill Bantey, who told him to call the police. He arrived shortly after the police, along with Ruth Jackson, the museum's curator of decorative arts. After surveying the broken frames, smashed display cases and general disorder the thieves had left, they found that 18 paintings and 38 other pieces had been taken. Collectively they estimated the value of the stolen work at $2 million.\n\nAll of the stolen paintings were by European artists from the 17th through 19th centuries:\n\n\nMost of the paintings taken were small works around a foot (31 cm) along their longest dimension; the three smallest (the Brueghels and Millet's \"La barrateuse\") were less than , smaller than a standard letter-size piece of paper. The largest was the Courbet, at 28 by 36 inches (), with the Gainsborough and Corot's \"Dreamer\" close behind. It was possible that when the thieves ran away each of them held a batch of smaller paintings in one hand and a larger one in the other.\n\nThe thieves also took 38 pieces of jewellery and figurines. Among the former pieces were an 18th-century gold watch once owned by the wife of Jacques Viger, Montreal's first mayor; a 19th-century French blue enamel latch box set with diamonds and two 17th-century Spanish pendants.\n\nLater that morning, Bantey, who had covered the crime beat in Montreal as a journalist prior to his tenure at the museum, held a news conference to discuss the theft. He identified all the stolen works and described how the robbers had entered the museum and taken them. \"They did show quite discriminating taste,\" he told reporters, \"though as far as the objects are concerned, they could do with more art and historical training.\" In their haste to leave, he noted, the thieves had left behind another Rembrandt as well as works by El Greco, Picasso and Tintoretto that they could as easily have taken.\n\nThe news conference was initially effective in publicizing the theft. It, as well as lists of the stolen paintings, were reported as front-page news in many major newspapers across the U.S. and Canada the next morning. As soon as they learned of the theft, Montreal police had also put out the alert to the crossings along the U.S. border, about from Montreal, to look out for the thieves and/or the paintings should anyone attempt to take them to New York City, farther south.\n\nHowever, further publicity that might have drawn attention to the theft and perhaps helped solve it was stymied by news events of September 5. At that year's Summer Olympics in Munich, Palestinian terrorists with Black September took 11 Israeli athletes hostage, eventually killing them along with a German police officer, the following day. Those events were of particular interest in Montreal since the city was preparing to host the next Olympics, and as a result further news about the art theft got less priority in the media. The investigation would continue, however.\n\nFrom interviews with the three guards, police learned that there had been three thieves. The guards saw two of them, describing them as both about in height. One spoke French and the other English. The guards also reported that the two spoke with a third, also a Francophone, whom they never were able to see.\n\nInvestigators were immediately struck by the similarity to another recent art theft in the Montreal area. On August 30, another group of three thieves had broken into the summer home of Agnes Meldrum, wife of a Montreal moving-company owner, in Oka, roughly 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of the city. They had all climbed up a 200-metre (600-foot) cliff from a powerboat on Lake of Two Mountains to do so. Witnesses said that while they wore hoods to prevent identification, two spoke French and the other, English. Once inside the home they stole paintings worth $50,000 in total.\n\nThe presence of two Francophones and one Anglophone, plus the climbing skills involved, led the chief investigator on the case to believe the thieves involved in both incidents had been local, and possibly the same. That, and their apparent knowledge of the skylight's non-functional alarm, had at first fostered a theory that someone on the inside at the museum had aided the thieves in some way. This is a common phenomenon when museums are robbed; two New York City detectives who specialized in art crime said as much when commenting about the Montreal case later in 1972.\n\nHowever, the Montreal police considered that speculation too broad to be helpful in focusing their investigation, and evidence did not bear it out. While it was possible that the thieves had indeed actively involved someone working on the skylight, it was as possible that they, or others involved with them, had learned of the security flaw through an overheard remark somewhere. An intense investigation of the workers involved with the skylight did not find any evidence they had passed information about it to anyone criminally inclined.\n\nIt was also seen as possible that the robbers had learned of the skylight flaw by simply reconnoitering their target. Roughly two weeks before the theft, someone reported encountering two men sitting on chairs on the roof, wearing sunglasses and smoking. When asked by the person who reported the incident, they claimed to be museum employees. But when investigators looked for the chairs on the roof after the theft, they could not be found. Likewise, no fingerprints or other evidence was left on either the ladder or nylon rope.\n\nTheories of an inside job were also undermined by the thieves' poorly planned exit. After abandoning their improvised plan to leave by the same skylight when they realized it would take too long to set up a system of pulleys, they instead chose to try to flee in one of the museum's trucks. If they had based that alternative on inside information they had obtained, they would have known how to disable the alarm they set off on the side entrance before opening it. And even if they had not chosen to do so, they would have known it did not sound anywhere else besides the museum—and thus not have abandoned half of what they had stolen to escape on foot.\n\nWhile the jewellery and figurines seem to have been chosen only because they could be easily carried, the paintings stolen seem to have been a matter of choice. Their small size, in addition to making them easy to carry and conceal, would also facilitate quick sales. The robbers, and any dealer working with them, might, investigators have speculated, have been looking to sell to private collectors who display their paintings in their homes. Indeed, the pairs of small paintings with similar subject matter by the same artist—Brueghel, Corot, Millet and Vincent—would be excellent choices to decorate a room.\n\nInterest in art in recent years had driven up prices, a phenomenon which had been widely reported in both French- and English-language media, and the thieves would have known even if they had no interest in art what collectors were willing to pay large sums for. Some art dealers in the Montreal area refused to discuss their business with police absent a legal order such as a subpoena or warrant. Around Christmas 1972, a \"Montreal Gazette\" columnist reported that, in fact, most of the paintings had been delivered to the homes of wealthy collectors in Mount Royal, with a small portion diverted to the U.S. This led police to interrogate two unnamed individuals, but no new leads developed as a result.\n\nThe robbers might not even have had to visit the museum to decide what works to take. Half of those they did keep when they ran away had been in \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a travelling exhibition that had been to several cities in the U.S. during the year before Expo 67. The Rembrandt had been included in a 1969 exhibit to commemorate the tricentennial of the artist's death, and the following year many of the French paintings had been in another exhibit that the press in that language gave great attention to.\n\nAll those works in the special exhibitions would have been depicted in handbooks or catalogues produced in association with them. Only the Brueghels, the Rubens and the Vincent portraits had not been included in those exhibits nor mentioned in any publication save the museum's own catalogue.\n\nEarly in their investigation, the police began looking into a group of students at the nearby École des beaux-arts de Montréal. Mostly French-speaking, they had often visited the museum but had frequently been asked to leave before its official closing time so that the mostly English-speaking staff could take their tea. This had engendered considerable resentment on the students' part.\n\nPolice kept five of these students under 24-hour surveillance for two weeks. Eventually they decided they could not find any evidence, and dropped that part of the investigation. Alain Lacoursière, an art-theft specialist with the Montreal police who investigated the cold case in later years, by his own account taking it over just before the files were slated to be shredded in 1984, believes the students were not involved. \"This crime was organized with a guy in charge who was 35 to 40 years old,\" well past his student years, he said in 2010.\n\nIn many art thefts the thieves seek ransom payments in return for the stolen works, and this happened twice in the MMFA thefts. Within a week of the robbery museum director David Giles Carter received a phone call from, he believed, one of the thieves. A man with a gravelly voice and an accent Carter described as \"European\" gave him directions to a phone booth near McGill University, near which one of the stolen pendants was found.\n\nSoon afterwards, a brown manila Port of Montreal envelope arrived at the museum with snapshots of the stolen paintings. Carter nicknamed the thief \"Port of Montreal\" as a result, and dialogue was opened up between the museum and the thieves to negotiate a ransom. At first the thieves demanded $500,000, about a quarter of the works' stated value; later they halved that.\n\nCarter demanded the thieves, or whoever it was negotiating on their behalf, give more proof they had the paintings than snapshots. In response, they told the museum's security director to go to a locker in Montreal Central Station. Inside, he found the Brueghel \"Landscape with Buildings and Wagon\". It is the only one of the stolen paintings that has so far been recovered.\n\nAs a result of these negotiations, approximately a month later the museum's insurance companies and the Montreal police set up a sting operation. An undercover detective posed as an insurance adjustor and agreed to meet the thieves or their representative in an empty field in one of the city's suburbs, where he hoped the thieves would believe he was ready to hand over $5,000 for another one of the paintings. However, when one of the local police cruisers passed by, completely unaware of the plans, the thieves apparently came to realize what was actually going on and never met the undercover officer. The next day they called Carter and complained that they had been set up.\n\nLacoursière believes that it was actually the museum and the police who were being set up. The field the robbers had chosen as the meeting site had few nearby houses at the time and could easily have been monitored from some distance away, allowing the robbers to detect even the more subtle police presence necessary to support a sting operation. \"It was all a smokescreen\", he says. Since the thieves never reopened negotiations afterwards, he believes they never had any intention of returning the paintings at the time and were using the purported ransom negotiations as a diversion while they bought themselves more time to sell or otherwise dispose of the paintings.\n\nThe second attempt took place the following year. A few months after the museum closed for its three-year renovation project in May 1973, a caller to a member of the museum's board said he would share where the paintings were hidden for $10,000. André DeQuoy, one of the adjusters handling the case, was involved in the discussion and made it clear that while the insurance companies would pay for information leading to the discovery of the painting, they would not pay for the paintings themselves. After he agreed to deliver it personally to the source, the board made the money available.\n\nThe caller had instructed DeQuoy, who was being discreetly followed by police, to go to a certain phone booth in downtown Montreal one afternoon. From there the caller sent him to other phone booths elsewhere in the city, such as the Blue Bonnets race track, on St. Laurent Boulevard and at the Henri-Bourassa station on the Montreal Metro. The caller then informed DeQuoy that he had picked up the police tail and DeQuoy was to return to his office and await further instructions while the caller had the unmarked car called off.\n\nDeQuoy did, and an hour later the caller said the police had been taken care of. Again he was sent out to phone booths, ultimately traveling back and forth across the island of Montreal to 11 of them, until at 4 a.m. the next morning he was told he could leave the envelope at the base of a sign in a vacant lot on St. Martin Boulevard, then return to the Henri-Bourassa phone booth where the caller would contact him again with the location of the paintings.\n\nWhile DeQuoy waited for the call, he let the police know where he had been all night. But the caller never called, so the adjustor returned to his office. At 8 a.m. the caller called him there and told him the paintings were in a motel in Laval, north of Montreal. An intensive search of the building, however, produced neither the paintings nor any sign they had ever been there. The $10,000 was not recovered.\n\nDue to the minimal news coverage, in January 1973 Bill Bantey put together a circular, \"Attention: Stolen\", depicting the stolen paintings and giving information such as their dimensions, in English and French. The idea was to distribute it widely throughout the international art community and familiarize possible buyers with the stolen works, a practice that was not common in art thefts at the time as most museums preferred to keep the news of their victimization to themselves. Major auction houses like Sotheby's and Christie's would not routinely check for whether art offered for sale through them was on lists of stolen works until 1985. \"[We hope that] the works become so catalogued and so well-known that it would be unlikely that any collector or museum buyer could innocently purchase them,\" Bantey told the \"Gazette\".\n\nThe museum and investigators did not make the ransom negotiations in the year after the thefts public knowledge until ten years later. \"For years we thought our chances of recovery were better keeping everything quiet,\" said one police detective, explaining the decision. \"But now our hopes are small. Maybe this will stimulate interest and produce something.\" But while it did allow police to confirm what they have only described as \"certain facts\", those have apparently not led to any progress in the case.\n\nThe recovered Brueghel was kept in storage at the museum by Ruth Jackson for ten years until a new frame could be purchased, after which it was returned to the place it had been exhibited prior to the theft. However, it was later determined that it was not by Brueghel but one of his students; Lacoursière believes the thieves may have chosen to return it due to doubts about its authenticity. It nevertheless remains on exhibit.\n\nA similar fate befell the painting the museum bought with the money it received from its insurers. A group of 20 of them paid out nearly $2 million to settle the claim; they in turn posted a $50,000 reward for the return of the paintings, which under the terms of the insurance policies they legally owned as a result of paying the theft claim. The museum used the money to purchase a Rubens, \"The Leopards\", which the museum promoted as the largest Rubens exhibited in Canada. But like the Brueghel, it was later reattributed to the painter's assistants, after a conservationist determined that its red pigments were mixed four decades after Rubens' death, reducing its value and interest to museumgoers. On the 35th anniversary of the robbery, in 2007, the museum thus returned it to storage and has never put it on display again.\n\nEven the attribution of some of the stolen work has been called into question. When the de Heems were being prepared for their inclusion in \"Masterpieces from Montreal\", a Parisian art historian the museum contacted suggested that they were in fact the work of another Dutch master, Evert Collier. The Rembrandt landscape, while indeed signed and dated by the artist, is one that both he and his students frequently returned to as a subject, and some historians are not entirely confident the painting was his even with the signature. The Gainsborough portrait, too, may in fact be the work of Joshua Reynolds, Gainsborough's rival, since its subject, Thomas Fletcher, is shown wearing a Madras regimental uniform, which he only started wearing in 1771, three years before his portrait was painted by Reynolds.\n\nIn 1992, on the 20th anniversary of the theft, a Radio-Canada story reported that the insurance companies now considered the paintings' value to have appreciated to $20 million. They had consequently increased the reward offer to $100,000. On behalf of the Montreal police, Lacoursière, who began investigating art crime in 1994, offered an additional million in 1999. No one has yet come forward to claim these rewards.\n\nLacoursière has had some promising leads over the years that have yielded nothing. He has been told that the paintings, or some of them, are in Italy, and that two Montreal men in the French city of Nice were possible suspects. One heroin addict he interviewed in Vancouver seemed to have inside information about the robbery, but everything he knew had been previously reported in the media; when he was asked about two details that police have withheld since only the actual robbers would know them, he was unable to do so.\n\nOne lead, however, has not been so easy for Lacoursière to dismiss. In 1998, a dealer he had gotten to know introduced him to a man who has been identified publicly only by the pseudonym \"Smith\". Smith told the detective he, too, had been a student at the École des beaux-arts at the time of the theft, explaining to him the tension between the students and museum staff.\n\nIn the course of their initial conversation, Lacoursière quickly came to believe Smith knew a great deal about the robbery, perhaps more than the police did. Although Smith said he had not been one of the five students kept under surveillance afterward, he told the detective that the rope used by the thieves to enter from the skylight was not gray as had been reported at the time, but yellow like the ones used at the school building. However, upon reviewing the original file and talking with one of the original investigators, Lacoursière found that any information on the colour of the rope had been deliberately withheld by police in order to confirm any later confessions or statements by possible suspects. He considered Smith's statements \"highly suspicious\".\n\nLacoursière investigated Smith's background, and found that a year after finishing his five-year course at the school, Smith had spent a quarter of a million dollars to buy himself a house and a local woodworking company. Lacoursière could not determine how Smith might have acquired that amount of money at such a relatively young age. He implied in 2010 it might have been from selling the stolen work.\n\nAccording to Lacoursière, Smith even told him that he would at some point in the future tell him something about the robbery. In 2007, during the filming of \"L'Colombe d'art\" (\"The Colombo of Art\"), a Radio-Canada special on his career as an art-theft detective, Lacoursière visited Smith and offered him the million-dollar cheque on camera. Smith, however, simply laughed, and invited the camera crew into his house so they could see for themselves that he had none of the stolen paintings.\n\nIn 2010, Quebec journalist Sylvain Larocque interviewed Smith by telephone. While he again denied any role in the theft himself, he claimed that professors and porters at the Université du Québec à Montréal, which the École des beaux-arts had been merged into in 1969, were behind the robbery. They were possibly, he claimed, the same people behind a robbery at the university a few weeks earlier.\n\nThe following year Lacoursière received a link to a video in email from Smith, possibly intended to tease the detective, who by then had retired. It was a Mercedes-Benz advertisement from Hong Kong in which bank robbers steal a briefcase from a bank vault, then escape in a Mercedes. They elude capture but leave the briefcase behind; inside is a long-lost stolen Da Vinci painting.\n\nThe robbery is now largely forgotten, except by the insurance companies and police, who continue to search. \"Like a death in the family, you have to let it drop,\" Bantey says. However, in 2009, Paul Lavallée, the museum's director at the time, said it continues to affect the museum, since it might not be able to reclaim the works even if they were recovered. \"[W]e would be strapped for funds,\" he said, even if the insurer offered them to the museum at a discount.\n\nIt is possible the paintings may have been destroyed to prevent them from being used as evidence against those in possession of them. But Lacoursière believes they were likely sold through smaller dealers who may not have known they were stolen, or cared if they did, to collectors who likewise keep them private, especially today, since they cannot sell them. He also notes that criminal organizations have found stolen art useful in other ways. During the 1994–2002 Quebec Biker war, he recalls, he learned that one member of the Montreal-area Hell's Angels served as a fence for art thieves, selling stolen art to the Italian Mafia at 10 percent of its price, who in turn used the names of dead residents of the affluent suburb of Westmount on faked provenance forms.\n\nWhile it is not believed likely that the original robbers were affiliated with organized crime, the ransom attempts may point in that direction. The Port of Montreal envelope in which the snapshots of the stolen art was sent may suggest the involvement of the West End Gang, an Irish-dominated group that is one of Canada's oldest and strongest criminal organizations, which has historically been based in the city's port. Bantey, however, doubts this based on his familiarity with the city's criminal element from his journalism days. \"[They] were interested in prostitution and drugs\" exclusively at the time, he says, and no one involved would have had the expertise required to pull off the robbery. Nor does he believe the thieves were motivated by separatism or any other political cause, just a desire to enrich themselves.\n\nDespite some suggestions the paintings, assuming they still exist, are still in Montreal, or elsewhere in Canada or the U.S. or Europe, the investigators who will discuss this believe the art has been moved to Latin America. Lacoursière notes that many of the West End Gang often spend their winters in, and retire to, Costa Rica. Police there have not responded to requests for assistance from their counterparts in Montreal. Bantey believes the paintings are in South America somewhere. \"I've heard several people I respect say that.\"\n\nThe police files on the robbery remain closed to public inspection as the case is still considered open.\n\n"}
{"id": "58172816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58172816", "title": "Akka bakka bonka rakka", "text": "Akka bakka bonka rakka\n\nAkka bakka bonka rakka is a Norwegian nursery rhyme of mostly nonsense words used to select or point out a participant in children's games, such as who will be \"it\" in a game like hide-and-seek () or tag ().\n\nIt is classified as a counting rhyme in Nora Kobberstad's \"Norsk Lekebok\" (Book of Norwegian Games) from 1901.\n\nThere are different versions of the rhyme. The following version was recorded in Elverum in the early 1920s by Sigurd Nergaard:\n\nIn 1936, it was included in a collection of children's rhymes published by Rikka Deinboll:\n\nFinn Myrvang reproduced it in 1964 in a version from Andøya:\n\nA later version, published by the Children's Book Club (\"Bokklubbens barn\"), has the following form:\n\n"}
{"id": "12182878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12182878", "title": "Albino (film)", "text": "Albino (film)\n\nAlbino (also known as The Night of the Askari, Death in the Sun and Whispering Death) is a 1976 German thriller directed by Jürgen Goslar and starring Christopher Lee, James Faulkner and Sybil Danning filmed on location during the Rhodesian Bush War. The film is based on the novel \"The Whispering Death\" by Daniel Carney.\n\nTerrick (James Faulkner), a British South Africa Police officer in rural Rhodesia, looks forward towards the end of his police service and early retirement to his farm with his fiancée, Sally (Sybil Danning). Terrick's hopes for a peaceful life with Sally are shattered, however, when black nationalist guerrillas attack the farm. Sally is raped and murdered by the guerrilla leader, an albino known only by the moniker \"Whispering Death\" (Horst Frank). Consumed by grief, Terrick and his farmworkers, led by Katchemu (Sam Williams) set out to avenge Sally on their own. They subsequently learn that the guerrillas have summoned the local villagers to a meeting to politicize them and lay an ambush for \"Whispering Death\" there. However Terrick's party opens fire prematurely, killing and injuring some of the civilians present. The Rhodesian government demands that Terrick's police superior, Bill (Christopher Lee) hold him accountable for his recklessness and bring him to justice. From its perspective he has endangered the war effort by inflaming the relationship between the security forces and the locals through his irresponsible actions. Bill obligingly orders a manhunt for Terrick, but most of the policemen sympathize with their onetime colleague and are demoralized by the fact they are being ordered to pursue him instead of the guerrillas. They abandon the manhunt and return to their homes. Due to the apparent unwillingness of the police to apprehend Terrick, a crack army unit is called in to assist with the manhunt. \n\n\"Whispering Death\" and his guerrillas decide to flee across the border to their sanctuaries in a neighbouring country. However, Terrick and Katchemu, who is an expert tracker, are hot on their trail. The duo become increasingly desperate, with Katchemu torturing a captured guerrilla for information. During a series of bloody skirmishes, Katchemu and nearly all the guerrillas are killed, leaving only Terrick and \"Whispering Death\" to face each other. Terrick gains the upper hand and stabs his opponent to death. The next morning, pursuing Rhodesian troops finally catch up to Terrick, but he is no longer coherent, having lost his mind as a result of the collective trauma he endured. When he threatens the soldiers with his rifle, they shoot him dead.\n\n\nFilm scholars Mark Miller and Tom Johnson described \"Albino\" as \"a nasty, repugnant tale of racial hatred and revenge\", criticizing the \"exploitative\" treatment which contemporary Rhodesian sociopolitical issues received. However, they also praised Lee and Faulkner's performances.\n\n"}
{"id": "9824983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9824983", "title": "Aud Egede-Nissen", "text": "Aud Egede-Nissen\n\nAud Egede-Nissen (30 May 1893 – 15 November 1974) was a Norwegian actress, director and producer. She appeared in many early 20th-century German silent films.\n\nBorn in Bergen, Norway in 1893, Egede-Nissen was a daughter of Norwegian postmaster and politician Adam Hjalmar Egede-Nissen (1868–1953) and his wife Georga \"Goggi\" Wilhelma Ellertsen (1871–1959); she had ten siblings.\nFour younger sisters and two younger brothers all became actors as well: Gerd Grieg (1895–1988), Ada Kramm (1899–1981), Oscar Egede-Nissen (1903–1976), Stig Egede-Nissen (1907–1988), Lill Egede-Nissen (1909–1962) and Gøril Havrevold (1914–1992). \n\nAud made her acting debut on the Norwegian stage in 1911, appearing next in Norwegian director Bjørn Bjørnson's 1913 film \"Scenens børn\". In 1913 she moved to Denmark and started working for Dania Biofilm Kompagni in Copenhagen. In 1914, Bjørn Bjørnson invited her to Berlin, where there were opportunities in the rapidly expanding film industry. In 1916, she appeared in Otto Rippert's six-part sci-fi serial \"Homunculus\". Also that year, she starred as the character \"Christine Daaé\" in a German adaptation, directed by Ernst Matray, of Gaston Leroux's novel \"The Phantom of the Opera\" opposite Swedish actor Nils Olaf Chrisander.\nFrom 1917 Aud Egede-Nissen was not contented with being an actor in other companies' films in Berlin. In partnership with her husband Georg Alexander, she started the Egede-Nissen Film Co. (\"Egede-Nissen Filmbyrå\") where she was the artistic and financial manager. Alexander directed most of their films, while Aud Egede-Nissen and her sisters Ada Kramm and Gerd Grieg usually played the female lead roles. Production notes suggest that these were mainly melodramas in serial form or detective films. In the two years between 1917 and 1919 her film company produced at least 29 films. Harder times and centralization in the German film industry after World War I ultimately contributed to the closing of Egede-Nissen's film company at the beginning of the 1920s. In 1920, she starred in two films directed by Ernst Lubitsch.\n\nIn the period before 1931 she acted in over 80 films and directed 18 more, having worked with many noted directors of early German cinema, including Ernst Lubitsch, Fritz Lang, Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau, Karl Grune, and Gerhard Lamprecht. She had major roles in movies of 1922 including Fritz Lang's \"Dr. Mabuse, the Gambler\" and F. W. Murnau's \"Phantom\". Paul Richter, who was to become her second husband, also had a role in \"Dr. Mabuse\". In 1924, the year Aud married him, he ascended to superstar status, taking the lead role of King Siegfried in Lang's \"Die Nibelungen.\" Along with Paul Richter, Aud also played in the 1928 Norwegian-German co-production \"Snowshoe Bandits\" (German:\"Schneeschuhbanditen\") and based on a crime novel by Nils Lie and Nordahl Grieg. Egede-Nissen's German film career came to an end shortly after the advent of sound films, though she did return to Norway to make two films there in the 1940s.\nEgede-Nissen was twice married to actors. In 1915 she married the German actor Georg Alexander (1888–1945), by whom she had her son Georg Richter (1915–1972); in 1924 they divorced, and from 1924 to 1931 she was married to the Austrian actor Paul Richter (1895–1961). Upon their marriage, Richter adopted her nine-year-old son Georg Richter who became an actor and film producer. In 1940, she was married for the third time with Dag Havrevold (1911–94). Together they had a son Dag Havrevold, Jr. (1938-2011). Aud Egede-Nissen died in Oslo, Norway at the age of 81.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47189153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47189153", "title": "Bakwa (magazine)", "text": "Bakwa (magazine)\n\nBakwa is an online magazine of literary and cultural criticism based in Yaoundé, Cameroon, that covers international cultural issues and has a penchant for fiction and creative non-fiction by Cameroonian writers. Notable contributors include: Imbolo Mbue, Ntone Edjabe, Anna Jäger, Kangsen Feka Wakai, Jeremy Klemin, Serubiri Moses, Minna Salami, Jack Little, Emmanuel Iduma, Bwesigye bwa Mwesigire and Johnnie MacViban. \"Bakwa\" has been described as \"an eclectic, intelligent take on the dynamic cultural scenes often missed by mainstream, western media\".\n\nFounded during the last quarter of 2011 (but operational as from 2012) by Dzekashu MacViban, \"Bakwa\" rose out of the need to fill the lacuna created by the absence of literary and cultural magazines in Cameroon, notably the defunct \"Pala Pala\" magazine, and it highlights a new dynamic Africa, often ignored by Western traditional media.\n\nOver the years, \"Bakwa\" has been able to establish alliances with important publications such as \"The Guardian\" (Guardian Africa Network), \"Chimurenga magazine\", \"Kwani?\", Saraba Magazine and The Ofi Press, which have led to collaborations on various projects.\n\nFor its third issue, in 2012, \"Bakwa\" collaborated with The Ofi Press, an online literary magazine based in Mexico and edited by Jack Little. The Ofi Press published a special West African edition, with content in English and Spanish, which focused on West Africa, while \"Bakwa\", in turn, published a special Mexican issue, focusing on Mexican art, culture and society, with most of the content in English and some Spanish translations. The project was lauded by several journals and outlets, especially the online website Heritage 1960\n\nIn 2015, \"Bakwa\" was part of #100DaysofAfricanReads, a social media project curated by Angela Wachuka, Executive Director of \"Kwani?\", which entailed \"a series of portraits on books, writers and readers, over a 100 day period ... highlighting the work of an African author in print and online\". With the exception of an excerpt from Awes Osman’s novel, \"Skinless Goat in Somalia\", Bakwa’s contribution to the project was made up of excerpts and stories from female Cameroonian writers. In the same year, in response to \"The Simpsons\"’ episode \"The Princess Guide\", \"Bakwa\" did a two-part series on The Simpsons, wherein, bloggers, writers, cultural thinkers and academics were asked to comment on \"The Princess Guide\" episode. Most of the reactions highlighted poor research, one-dimensional characters, the challenge of portraying believable Nigerians, and the episode’s relatable character, Princess Kemi. This project on \"The Simpsons\" was later chosen by Dead Homer Society, for the \"weekend reading\" section.\n\nIn 2016, thanks to a partnership with Goethe-Institut Kamerun and Phoneme Media, Bakwa launched a one-off short story competition open to Cameroonians under 39 years. This was followed by a Literary Exchange Programme in 2017, between Cameroonain and Nigerian writers, in partnership with Saraba Magazine and the Goethe-Institut in Cameroon and Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "13028775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13028775", "title": "Banhua", "text": "Banhua\n\nBanhua (Chinese: 版画) is the Chinese umbrella term for any printed art objects, and especially for those made by woodblock printing, the term used for woodcuts from Asia.\n\nThe direct translation of 'Banhua' is 'printed picture', it is a general term for original prints or printmaking as an art form. 'Banhua' is composed of two characters: 'ban' (Chinese: 版) meaning 'block' and 'hua' (Chinese: 画)meaning 'picture'. Banhua's meaning does not limited in prints in Chinese style.\n\nAs printing first appeared in 3rd century China, artists started to use woodblock printing or other methods to spread their works. Buddhist classics, novel illustrations, and the banknote were among the first public works to be printed in China.\n\nFrom the 17th century, prints of New Year pictures became popular.\n"}
{"id": "197055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197055", "title": "Catharsis", "text": "Catharsis\n\nCatharsis (from Greek meaning \"purification\" or \"cleansing\") is the purification and purgation of emotions—particularly pity and fear—through art or any extreme change in emotion that results in renewal and restoration. It is a metaphor originally used by Aristotle in the \"Poetics,\" comparing the effects of tragedy on the mind of a spectator to the effect of a cathartic on the body.\n\nCatharsis is a term in dramatic art that describes the effect of tragedy (or comedy and quite possibly other artistic forms) principally on the audience (although some have speculated on characters in the drama as well). Nowhere does Aristotle explain the meaning of \"catharsis\" as he is using that term in the definition of tragedy in the \"Poetics\" (1449b21-28). G. F. Else argues that traditional, widely held interpretations of catharsis as \"purification\" or \"purgation\" have no basis in the text of the \"Poetics\", but are derived from the use of catharsis in other Aristotelian and non-Aristotelian contexts. For this reason, a number of diverse interpretations of the meaning of this term have arisen. The term is often discussed along with Aristotle's concept of anagnorisis.\n\nD. W. Lucas, in an authoritative edition of the \"Poetics\", comprehensively covers the various nuances inherent in the meaning of the term in an Appendix devoted to \"Pity, Fear, and Katharsis\". Lucas recognizes the possibility of catharsis bearing some aspect of the meaning of \"purification, purgation, and 'intellectual clarification'\" although his discussion of these terms is not always, or perhaps often, in the precise form with which other influential scholars have treated them. Lucas himself does not accept any one of these interpretations as his own but adopts a rather different one based on \"the Greek doctrine of Humours\" which has not received wide subsequent acceptance. Purgation and purification, used in previous centuries, as the common interpretations of catharsis are still in wide use today. More recently, in the twentieth century, the interpretation of catharsis as \"intellectual clarification\" has arisen as a rival to the older views in describing the effect of catharsis on members of the audience.\n\nIn his works prior to the \"Poetics,\" Aristotle had used the term \"catharsis\" purely in its medical sense (usually referring to the evacuation of the \"katamenia\"—the menstrual fluid or other reproductive material). Here, however, he employs it as a medical metaphor.\nF. L. Lucas maintains, therefore, that \"purification\" and \"cleansing\" are not proper translations for \"catharsis\"; that it should rather be rendered as \"purgation\". \"It is the human soul that is purged of its excessive passions.\" Gerald F. Else made the following argument against the \"purgation\" theory: \"It presupposes that we come to the tragic drama (unconsciously, if you will) as patients to be cured, relieved, restored to psychic health. But there is not a word to support this in the \"Poetics\", not a hint that the end of drama is to cure or alleviate pathological states. On the contrary it is evident in every line of the work that Aristotle is presupposing 'normal' auditors, normal states of mind and feeling, normal emotional and aesthetic experience.\"\n\nLessing sidesteps the medical attribution. He translates \"catharsis\" as a purification, an experience that brings pity and fear into their proper balance: \"In real life\", he explained, \"men are sometimes too much addicted to pity or fear, sometimes too little; tragedy brings them back to a virtuous and happy mean.\"\nTragedy is then a corrective; through watching tragedy, the audience learns how to feel these emotions at proper levels.\n\nIn the twentieth century a paradigm shift took place in the interpretation of catharsis with a number of scholars contributing to the argument in support of the intellectual clarification concept. The clarification theory of catharsis would be fully consistent, as other interpretations are not, with Aristotle's argument in chapter 4 of the \"Poetics\" (1448b4-17) that the essential pleasure of mimesis is the intellectual pleasure of \"learning and inference\".\n\nIt is generally understood that Aristotle's theory of mimesis and catharsis are responses to Plato's negative view of artistic mimesis on an audience. Plato argued that the most common forms of artistic mimesis were designed to evoke from an audience powerful emotions such as pity, fear, and ridicule which override the rational control that defines the highest level of our humanity and lead us to wallow unacceptably in the overindulgence of emotion and passion. Aristotle's concept of catharsis, in all of the major senses attributed to it, contradicts Plato's view by providing a mechanism that generates the rational control of irrational emotions. All of the commonly held interpretations of catharsis, purgation, purification, and clarification are considered by most scholars to represent a homeopathic process in which pity and fear accomplish the catharsis of emotions like themselves. For an alternate view of catharsis as an allopathic process in which pity and fear produce a catharsis of emotions unlike pity and fear, see E. Belfiore, \"Tragic Pleasures: Aristotle on Plot and Emotion.\" Princeton, 1992, 260 ff.\n\nThe following analysis by E. R. Dodds, directed at the character of Oedipus in the paradigmatic Aristotelian tragedy, \"Oedipus Rex,\" incorporates all three of the aforementioned interpretations of catharsis: purgation, purification, intellectual clarification:\n\nThere have been, for political or aesthetic reasons, deliberate attempts made to subvert the effect of catharsis in theatre.\nFor example, Bertolt Brecht viewed catharsis as a pap (pabulum) for the bourgeois theatre audience, and designed dramas which left significant emotions unresolved, intending to force social action upon the audience. Brecht then identified the concept of catharsis with the notion of identification of the spectator, meaning a complete adhesion of the viewer to the dramatic actions and characters. Brecht reasoned that the absence of a cathartic resolution would require the audience to take political action in the real world, in order to fill the emotional gap they had experienced vicariously. This technique can be seen as early as his agit-prop play \"The Measures Taken,\" and is mostly the source of his invention of an \"epic theatre\", based on a distancing effect (Verfremdungseffekt) between the viewer and the representation or portrayal of characters. \n\nCatharsis before the sixth-century rise of tragedy is, for the Western World, essentially a historical footnote to the Aristotelian conception. The practice of purification had not yet appeared in Homer, as later Greek commentators noted: the \"Aithiopis\", an epic set in the Trojan War cycle, narrates the purification of Achilles after his murder of Thersites. Catharsis describes the result of measures taken to cleanse away blood-guilt—\"blood is purified through blood\", a process in the development of Hellenistic culture in which the oracle of Delphi took a prominent role. The classic example—Orestes—belongs to tragedy, but the procedure given by Aeschylus is ancient: the blood of a sacrificed piglet is allowed to wash over the blood-polluted man, and running water washes away the blood. The identical ritual is represented, Burkert informs us, on a \"krater\" found at Canicattini, wherein it is shown being employed to cure the daughters of Proetus from their madness, caused by some ritual transgression. To the question of whether the ritual obtains atonement for the subject, or just healing, Burkert answers: \"To raise the question is to see the irrelevance of this distinction\".\n\nIn psychology, the term was first employed by Sigmund Freud's colleague Josef Breuer (1842–1925), who developed a cathartic method of treatment using hypnosis for persons suffering from intensive hysteria. While under hypnosis, Breuer's patients were able to recall traumatic experiences, and through the process of expressing the original emotions that had been repressed and forgotten, they were relieved of their hysteric symptoms. Catharsis was also central to Freud's concept of psychoanalysis, but he replaced hypnosis with free association.\n\nThe term \"catharsis\" has also been adopted by modern psychotherapy, particularly Freudian psychoanalysis, to describe the act of expressing, or more accurately, \"experiencing\" the deep emotions often associated with events in the individual's past which had originally been repressed or ignored, and had never been adequately addressed or experienced.\n\nThere has been much debate about the use of catharsis in the reduction of anger. Some scholars believe that \"blowing off steam\" may reduce physiological stress in the short term, but this reduction may act as a reward mechanism, reinforcing the behavior and promoting future outbursts. However, other studies have suggested that using violent media may decrease hostility under periods of stress. Legal scholars have linked \"catharsis\" to \"closure\" (an individual's desire for a firm answer to a question and an aversion toward ambiguity) and \"satisfaction\" which can be applied to affective strategies as diverse as retribution, on one hand, and forgiveness on the other. There's no \"one size fits all\" definition of \"catharsis\", therefore this does not allow a clear definition of its use in therapeutic terms.\n\nEmotional situations can elicit physiological, behavioral, cognitive, expressive, and subjective changes in individuals. Affected individuals often use social sharing as a cathartic release of emotions. Bernard Rimé studies the patterns of social sharing after emotional experiences. His works suggest that individuals seek social outlets in an attempt to modify the situation and restore personal homeostatic balance.\n\nRimé found that 80–95% of emotional episodes are shared. The affected individuals talk about the emotional experience recurrently to people around them throughout the following hours, days, or weeks. These results indicate that this response is irrespective of emotional valence, gender, education, and culture. His studies also found that social sharing of emotion increases as the intensity of the emotion increases.\n\nÉmile Durkheim proposed emotional stages of social sharing:\n\nAffect scientists have found differences in motives for social sharing of positive and negative emotions.\n\n(1) Positive emotion\n\nA study by Langston found that individuals share positive events to capitalize on the positive emotions they elicit. Reminiscing the positive experience augments positive affects like temporary mood and longer-term well-being. A study by Gable et al. confirmed Langston's \"capitalization\" theory by demonstrating that relationship quality is enhanced when partners are responsive to positive recollections. The responsiveness increased levels of intimacy and satisfaction within the relationship. In general, the motives behind social sharing of positive events are to recall the positive emotions, inform others, and gain attention from others. All three motives are representatives of capitalization.\n\n(2) Negative emotion\n\nRimé studies suggest that the motives behind social sharing of negative emotions are to vent, understand, bond, and gain social support. Negatively affected individuals often seek life meaning and emotional support to combat feelings of loneliness after a tragic event.\n\nIf emotions are shared socially and elicits emotion in the listener then the listener will likely share what they heard with other people. Rimé calls this process \"secondary social sharing\". If this repeats, it is then called \"tertiary social sharing\".\n\nCollective emotional events share similar responses. When communities are affected by an emotional event, members repetitively share emotional experiences. After the 2001 New York and the 2004 Madrid terrorist attacks, more than 80% of respondents shared their emotional experience with others. According to Rimé, every sharing round elicits emotional reactivation in the sender and the receiver. This then reactivates the need to share in both. Social sharing throughout the community leads to high amounts of emotional recollection and \"emotional overheating\".\n\nPennebaker and Harber defined three stages of collective responses to emotional events.\n\nIn the first stage, a state of \"emergency\" takes place in the first month after the emotional event. In this stage, there is an abundance of thoughts, talks, media coverage, and social integration based on the event.\n\nIn the second stage, the \"plateau\" occurs in the second month. Abundant thoughts remain, but the amount of talks, media coverage, and social integration decreases.\n\nIn the third stage, the \"extinction\" occurs after the second month. There is a return to normalcy.\n\nThis cathartic release of emotions is often believed to be therapeutic for affected individuals. Many therapeutic mechanisms have been seen to aid in emotional recovery. One example is \"interpersonal emotion regulation\", in which listeners help to modify the affected individual's affective state by using certain strategies. Expressive writing is another common mechanism for catharsis. Joanne Frattaroli published a meta-analysis suggesting that written disclosure of information, thoughts, and feelings enhances mental health.\n\nHowever, other studies question the benefits of social catharsis. Finkenauer and colleagues found that non-shared memories were no more emotionally triggering than shared ones. Other studies have also failed to prove that social catharsis leads to any degree of emotional recovery. Zech and Rimé asked participants to recall and share a negative experience with an experimenter. When compared with the control group that only discussed unemotional topics, there was no correlation between emotional sharing and emotional recovery.\n\nSome studies even found adverse effects of social catharsis. Contrary to the Frattaroli study, Sbarra and colleagues found expressive writing to greatly impede emotional recovery following a marital separation. Similar findings have been published regarding trauma recovery. A group intervention technique is often used on disaster victims to prevent trauma-related disorders. However, meta-analysis showed negative effects of this cathartic \"therapy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14435121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14435121", "title": "Civic Trust Awards", "text": "Civic Trust Awards\n\nCivic Trust Awards is a Community Interest Company founded in June 2009 following the closure of the Civic Trust charity earlier that year. Civic Trust Awards continued the annual awards scheme independently.\n\nThe Civic Trust Awards were originally established in 1959 by Michael Middleton CBE of the Civic Trust to recognise outstanding architecture, urban design, landscape and public are which improve the quality of life for local communities.\n\nAfter the Civic Trust went into Administration in April 2009, the Civic Trust Awards have continued as an independent scheme operating on a not-for-profit basis as a Community Interest Company. \n\nAwards are given for buildings and schemes which were architecturally outstanding and made positive differences to their local community. Each entry is judged by a voluntary panel including an Architect, Inclusive Design Advisor, a representative from the Local Planning Authority and a Local Community Representative.\n\nSeveral awards are issued each year from a shortlist. Some are given a commendation and a selected few are considered for a sponsored Special Award. The main annual winners are given the Civic Trust Award, which comes with a plaque, and previous award winners include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13283162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13283162", "title": "Cork Street", "text": "Cork Street\n\nCork Street is a street in Mayfair in the West End of London, England, with many contemporary art galleries, and was previously associated with the tailoring industry. It is part of the Burlington Estate, which was developed from the 18th century.\n\nThe street runs approximately north-west from the junction of Burlington Arcade with Burlington Gardens, and is close to Burlington House, which houses the Royal Academy of Arts. It is parallel to, and immediately to the east of, New Bond Street. The nearest tube station is Green Park.\n\nCork Street is part of the Burlington Estate, which was developed from the 18th century. The first Earl of Burlington was Richard Boyle (1612–1698), 2nd Earl of Cork; the street is named for that city.\n\nThe street in particular and the area in general was associated with tailors. In particular, the leading Regency London tailors Schweitzer and Davidson were located in Cork Street. Beau Brummell (1778–1840), who introduced the flamboyant form of gentleman's fashion that became known as dandyism, patronised Schweitzer and Davidson in Cork Street. Savile Row, not far from Cork Street to the east, is now the street most associated with high-quality gentleman's tailors today.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the street became associated with the art world. Cork Street is today known in the art world for its many commercial art galleries. It is close to the Royal Academy on Piccadilly to the south, when has an interest in the artistic nature of the street. , there are 22 galleries in the street.\n\nThe street is considered to be one of the United Kingdom's \"most important art hubs\". The galleries of Cork Street have launched the careers of many major modern artists in Britain. For example, the Mayor Gallery was the venue for the first London exhibitions of Francis Bacon, Max Ernst, Paul Klee, and Joan Miró. Peggy Guggenheim opened her 'Guggenheim Jeune' art gallery at number 30 in 1938.\n\nThe art dealer Lillian Browse was nicknamed \"The Duchess of Cork Street\", and used that name as the title of her autobiography.\n\nIn 1985 the Grey Organisation, a radical arts collective, launched an attack on Cork Street covering some of the galleries in grey paint. In a press release, GO justified the attacks on Cork Street, describing the galleries established there as \"boring and lifeless\", stating they \"intended to liven up their lives a bit!\". The attack took place on Tuesday 21 May 1985, somewhere between midnight and 6am. Members of the Grey Organisation were later arrested, released on bail and banned from central London, but when prosecuted at Well Street Magistrates' court, pleaded 'Not Guilty' and were released without charge.\n\nIn 2012 the Save Cork Street campaign was created to protect Cork Street as a contemporary arts district. With 13,000 supporters, including David Hockney and Sir Peter Blake, the Save Cork Street campaign attracted major press interest. Chaired by artist and arts promoter Simon Tarrant, the Save Cork Street committee petitioned Westminster Council to stipulate gallery usage for future Cork Street developments.\n\n"}
{"id": "39053889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39053889", "title": "Corpus Scriptorum Historiae Byzantinae", "text": "Corpus Scriptorum Historiae Byzantinae\n\nThe Corpus Scriptorum Historiae Byzantinae (Latin: \"Corpus of Byzantine history writers\"), frequently referred to as the CSHB or Bonn Corpus, is a monumental fifty-volume series of primary sources for the study of Byzantine history (c. 330–1453), published in the German city of Bonn between 1828 and 1897. Each volume contains a critical edition of a Byzantine Greek historical text, accompanied by a parallel Latin translation. The project, conceived by the historian Barthold Georg Niebuhr, sought to revise and expand the original twenty-four volume \"Corpus Byzantinae Historiae\" (sometimes called the \"Byzantine du Louvre\"), published in Paris between 1648 and 1711 under the initial direction of the Jesuit scholar Philippe Labbe. The series was first based at the University of Bonn; after Niebuhr's death in 1831, however, oversight of the project passed to his collaborator Immanuel Bekker at the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin.\n\nWhile the first volume of the series was praised for its \"minute care and attention\" to textual details, later volumes produced under Bekker became infamous for their frequent misprints, careless execution, and general unreliability. Given these shortcomings, the International Association of Byzantine Studies established in 1966 the \"Corpus Fontium Historiae Byzantinae\" to re-edit many of the texts included in the Bonn edition of the CSHB.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3647682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647682", "title": "D'Oyly Carte Opera Company", "text": "D'Oyly Carte Opera Company\n\nThe D'Oyly Carte Opera Company is a professional light opera company that staged Gilbert and Sullivan's Savoy operas nearly year-round in the UK and sometimes toured in Europe, North America and elsewhere, from the 1870s until 1982. The company was revived for short seasons and tours from 1988 to 2003, and with Scottish Opera it later co-produced two productions.\n\nIn 1875, Richard D'Oyly Carte asked the dramatist W. S. Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan to collaborate on a short comic opera to round out an evening's entertainment. When that work, \"Trial by Jury\", became a success, Carte put together a syndicate to produce a full-length Gilbert and Sullivan work, \"The Sorcerer\" (1877), followed by \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1878). After \"Pinafore\" became an international sensation, Carte jettisoned his difficult investors and formed a new partnership with Gilbert and Sullivan that became the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. The company produced the succeeding ten Gilbert and Sullivan operas and many other operas and companion pieces, mostly at the Savoy Theatre in London, which Carte built in 1881 for that purpose. The company also mounted tours in Britain, New York and elsewhere, usually running several companies simultaneously. Carte's able assistant, Helen Lenoir, became his wife in 1888 and, after his death in 1901, she ran the company until her own death in 1913. By this time, it had become a year-round Gilbert and Sullivan touring repertory company.\n\nCarte's son Rupert inherited the company. Beginning in 1919, he mounted new seasons in London with new set and costume designs, while continuing the year-round tours in Britain and abroad. With the help of the director J. M. Gordon and the conductor Isidore Godfrey, Carte ran the company for 35 years. He redesigned the Savoy Theatre in 1928 and sponsored a series of recordings over the years that helped to keep the operas popular. After Rupert's death in 1948, his daughter Bridget inherited the company and hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager. The company continued to tour for 35 weeks each year, issue new recordings and play London seasons of Gilbert and Sullivan. In 1961, the last copyright on the Gilbert and Sullivan operas expired, and Bridget set up and endowed a charitable trust that presented the operas until mounting costs and a lack of public funding forced the closure of the company in 1982. It re-formed in 1988 with a legacy left by Bridget D'Oyly Carte, played short tours and London seasons, and issued some popular recordings. Denied significant funding from the English Arts Council, it suspended productions in 2003. With Scottish Opera, it co-produced \"The Pirates of Penzance\" 2013 and \"The Mikado\" in 2016.\n\nSome of the company's performers, over the decades, became stars of their day and often moved on to careers in musical theatre or grand opera. The company licensed the operas for performance in Australasia and to numerous amateur troupes in Britain and elsewhere, providing orchestra parts and prompt books for hire. The company kept the Savoy operas in the public eye for over a century and left an enduring legacy of production styles and stage business that continue to be emulated in new productions, as well as recordings.\n\nBy 1874, Richard D'Oyly Carte, a musician and ambitious young impresario, had begun producing operettas in London. He announced his ambitions on the front of the programme for one of his productions that year: \"It is my desire to establish in London a permanent abode for light opera.\" \"The Observer\" reported, \"Mr D'Oyly Carte is not only a skilful manager, but a trained musician, and he appears to have grasped the fact that the public are beginning to become weary of what is known as a genuine opera bouffe, and are ready to welcome a musical entertainment of a higher order, such as a musician might produce with satisfaction\". He wanted to establish a body of tasteful English comic opera that would appeal to families, in contrast to the bawdy burlesques and adaptations of French operettas and opera bouffes that dominated the London musical stage at that time.\n\nIn early 1875, Carte was managing London's Royalty Theatre. Needing a short piece to round out an evening's entertainment featuring the popular Offenbach operetta \"La Périchole\" he brought W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan together. On tour in 1871, Carte had conducted Arthur Sullivan's one-act comic opera \"Cox and Box\", which received an 1874 London revival. In 1873, W. S. Gilbert had offered a libretto to Carte about an English courtroom, but at the time Carte knew of no composer available to set it to music. Carte remembered Gilbert's libretto and suggested to Gilbert that Sullivan write the music for a one-act comic opera, \"Trial by Jury\", which was quickly composed and added to the Royalty's bill in March 1875. The witty and \"very English\" little piece proved even more popular than \"La Périchole\" and became the first great success of Carte's scheme to found his school of English comic opera, playing for 300 performances from 1875 to 1877, as well as touring and enjoying many revivals.\nAt the Theatre Royal, in Dublin, Ireland in September 1875, while there managing the first tour of \"Trial by Jury\", Carte met a young Scottish actress, Helen Lenoir. She became fascinated by his vision for establishing a company to promote English comic opera and gave up her next engagement to join his theatrical organisation as his secretary. Lenoir was well-educated, and her grasp of detail and diplomacy, as well as her organisational ability and business acumen, surpassed even Carte's. She became intensely involved in all of his business affairs and soon managed many of the company's responsibilities, especially concerning touring. She later travelled to America numerous times over the years to arrange the details of the company's New York engagements and American tours. Still, Carte continued to produce continental operetta, touring in the summer of 1876 with a repertoire consisting of three English adaptations of French opera bouffe and two one-act English curtain raisers (\"Happy Hampstead\" and \"Trial by Jury\"). Carte himself was the musical director of this travelling company, which disbanded after the tour.\n\nIn 1876, Carte found four financial backers and formed the Comedy Opera Company in 1876 to produce more works by Gilbert and Sullivan, along with the works of other British lyricist/composer teams. With this theatre company, Carte finally had the financial resources, after many failed attempts, to produce a new full-length Gilbert and Sullivan opera. Carte leased the Opera Comique, a small theatre off The Strand. The first comic opera produced by the Comedy Opera Company was Gilbert and Sullivan's \"The Sorcerer\", about a tradesmanlike London sorcerer. It opened in November 1877 together with \"Dora's Dream\", a curtain-raiser with music by Sullivan's assistant Alfred Cellier and words by Arthur Cecil, a friend of both Gilbert and Sullivan.\n\nInstead of writing a piece for production by a theatre proprietor, as was usual in Victorian theatres, Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte produced the show with their own financial support. They were therefore able to select their own cast of performers, rather than being obliged to use the actors already engaged at the theatre. They chose talented actors, most of whom were not well-known stars and did not command high fees, and to whom they could teach a more naturalistic style of performance than was commonly used at the time. Carte's talent agency provided many of the artists to perform in the new work. They then tailored their work to the particular abilities of these performers. Some of the cast members, including principal comedian George Grossmith, Richard Temple and Rutland Barrington, stayed with the company for almost 15 years. Two other longstanding members of the company were Rosina Brandram, who started in D'Oyly Carte touring companies with \"The Sorcerer\", and Jessie Bond who joined the group for \"Pinafore\" at the Opera Comique in 1878. As Grossmith wrote in 1888, \"We are all a very happy family.\"\n\nKnowing that Gilbert and Sullivan shared his vision of broadening the audience for British light opera by increasing its quality and respectability, Carte gave Gilbert wider authority as a director than was customary among Victorian producers, and Gilbert tightly controlled all aspects of production, including staging, design and movement. Gilbert hired the Gaiety Theatre's ballet-master John D'Auban to choreograph most of the Savoy operas. The skill with which Gilbert and Sullivan used their performers had an effect on the audience; as the critic Herman Klein wrote: \"we secretly marvelled at the naturalness and ease with which [the Gilbertian quips and absurdities] were said and done. For until then no living soul had seen upon the stage such weird, eccentric, yet intensely human beings ... [They] conjured into existence a hitherto unknown comic world of sheer delight.\" \"The Sorcerer\" ran for 178 performances, a healthy run at the time, making a profit, and Carte sent out a touring company in March 1878. Sheet music from the show sold well, and street musicians played the melodies. The success of \"The Sorcerer\" showed Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan that there was a future in family-friendly English comic opera.\n\nThe next Gilbert and Sullivan collaboration, \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", opened in May 1878. The opera's initial slow business was generally ascribed to a heat wave that made the stuffy Opera Comique particularly uncomfortable. Carte's partners in the Comedy Opera Company lost confidence in the show and posted closing notices. After Carte made promotional efforts and Sullivan included some of the \"Pinafore\" music in several promenade concerts that he conducted at Covent Garden, \"Pinafore\" became a hit. The Opera Comique was required to close at Christmas 1878 for repairs to drainage and sewage under the Public Health Act of 1875. Carte used the enforced closure of the theatre to invoke a contract clause reverting the rights of \"Pinafore\" and \"Sorcerer\" to Gilbert and Sullivan after the initial run of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\". Carte then took a six-month personal lease on the theatre beginning on 1 February 1879. Carte persuaded Gilbert and Sullivan that when their original agreement with the Comedy Opera Company expired in July 1879, a business partnership among the three of them would be to their advantage. The three each put up £1,000 and formed a new partnership under the name \"Mr Richard D'Oyly Carte's Opera Company\". Under the partnership agreement, once the expenses of mounting the productions had been deducted, each of the three men was entitled to one third of the profits.\n\nOn 31 July 1879, the last day of their agreement with Gilbert and Sullivan, the directors of the Comedy Opera Company attempted to repossess the set by force during a performance, causing a celebrated fracas. Carte's stagehands managed to ward off their backstage attackers and protect the scenery. The Comedy Opera Company opened a rival production of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" in London, but it was not as popular as the D'Oyly Carte production, and soon closed. Legal action over the ownership of the rights ended in victory for Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan. From 1 August 1879, the company, later called the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, became the sole authorised producer of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan.\n\n\"Pinafore\" became so successful that the piano score sold 10,000 copies, and Carte soon sent two additional companies out to tour in the provinces. The opera ran for 571 performances in London, the second longest run in musical theatre history up to that time. Over 150 unauthorised productions sprang up in America alone, but because American law then offered no copyright protection to foreigners, Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte had no way to prevent them. To try to make some money from the popularity of their opera in America, Carte travelled to New York with Gilbert, Sullivan and the company to present an \"authentic\" production of \"Pinafore\" on Broadway, beginning in December 1879, also mounting American tours. Beginning with \"Pinafore\", Carte licensed the J. C. Williamson company to produce the works in Australia and New Zealand.\nIn an effort to head off unauthorised American productions of their next opera, \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Carte and his partners opened it in New York on 31 December 1879, prior to its 1880 London premiere. \"Pirates\" was the only Gilbert and Sullivan opera to have its official premiere in America. Carte and his partners hoped to forestall further \"piracy\" by establishing the authorised production and tours in America before others could copy it and by delaying publication of the score and libretto. They did succeed in keeping for themselves the direct profits of the venture, but they tried without success for many years to control the American performance copyrights over their operas. \"Pirates\" was an immediate hit in New York, and later London, becoming one of the most popular Gilbert and Sullivan operas. To secure the British copyright, there was a perfunctory performance the afternoon before the New York premiere, at the Royal Bijou Theatre, Paignton, Devon, organised by Helen Lenoir.\n\nThe next Gilbert and Sullivan opera, \"Patience\", opened at the Opera Comique in April 1881 and was another big success, becoming the second longest-running piece in the series and enjoying numerous foreign productions. Patience satirised the self-indulgent Aesthetic movement of the 1870s and '80s in England, part of the 19th-century European movement that emphasised aesthetic values over moral or social themes in literature, fine art, the decorative arts, and interior design. From the beginning, the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company established strict rules for its actors and actresses, to avoid any hint of scandal such as performers were accused of in other companies. As Jessie Bond described in her autobiography:\nNo lingering about was allowed, no gossiping with the other actors; the women’s dressing-rooms were on one side of the stage, the men's on the other, and when we were not actually playing we had to mount at once our respective narrow staircases – sheep rigorously separated from the goats! Once, when my mother came to see me in London, expecting to find me dwelling in haunts of gilded luxury, and far down the road to perdition, I took her behind the scenes and showed her the arrangements for the actors and actresses, conventual in their austerity. ... I think there never was a theatre run on lines of such strict propriety; no breath of scandal ever touched it in all the twenty years of my experience. Gilbert would suffer no loose word or gesture either behind the stage or on it, and watched over us young women like a dragon.\nWith profits from the success of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas and his concert and lecture agency (his talent roster included Adelina Patti, Clara Schumann, Jacques Offenbach, Oscar Wilde and Charles Gounod), Carte bought property along the Strand with frontage onto the Thames Embankment, where he built the Savoy Theatre in 1881. He chose the name in honour of the Savoy Palace. The Savoy Theatre was a state-of-the-art facility, setting a new standard for technology, comfort and decor. It was the first public building in the world to be lit entirely by electric lights and seated nearly 1,300 people (compared to the Opera Comique's 862).\n\n\"Patience\" was the first production at the new theatre, transferring there on 10 October 1881. The first generator proved too small to power the whole building, and though the entire front-of-house was electrically lit, the stage was lit by gas until 28 December 1881. At that performance, Carte stepped on stage and broke a glowing lightbulb before the audience to demonstrate the safety of the new technology. \"The Times\" concluded that the theatre \"is admirably adapted for its purpose, its acoustic qualities are excellent, and all reasonable demands of comfort and taste are complied with.\" Carte and his manager, George Edwardes (later famous as manager of the Gaiety Theatre), introduced several innovations at the theatre, including numbered seating, free programme booklets, the \"queue\" system for the pit and gallery (an American idea) and a policy of no tipping for cloakroom or other services. Daily expenses at the theatre were about half the possible takings from ticket sales. The last eight of Gilbert and Sullivan's comic operas were premièred at the Savoy.\n\nDuring the years when the Gilbert and Sullivan operas were being written, the company also produced operas by other composer–librettist teams, either as curtain-raisers to the Gilbert and Sullivan pieces, or as touring productions, as well as other works to fill the Savoy Theatre in between Savoy operas, and Carte also toured the Gilbert and Sullivan operas extensively. For example, a souvenir programme commemorating the 250th performance of \"Patience\" in London and its 100th performance in New York shows that, aside from these two productions of \"Patience\", Carte was simultaneously producing two companies touring with \"Patience\", two companies touring with other Gilbert and Sullivan operas, a company touring with \"Olivette\" (co-produced with Charles Wyndham) a company touring \"Claude Duval\" in America, a production of \"Youth\" running at a New York theatre, a lecture tour by Archibald Forbes (a war correspondent) and productions of \"Patience\", \"Pirates\", \"Claude Duval\" and \"Billee Taylor\" in association with J. C. Williamson in Australia, among other things.\n\nIn the 1880s, Carte also introduced the practice of licensing amateur theatrical societies to present works for which he held the rights, increasing their popularity and the sales of scores and libretti, as well as the rental of band parts. This had an important influence on amateur theatre in general. Cellier and Bridgeman wrote in 1914 that, prior to the creation of the Savoy operas, amateur actors were treated with contempt by professionals. After the formation of amateur Gilbert and Sullivan companies licensed to perform the operas, professionals recognised that the amateur societies \"support the culture of music and the drama. They are now accepted as useful training schools for the legitimate stage, and from the volunteer ranks have sprung many present-day favourites.\" Cellier and Bridgeman attributed the rise in quality and reputation of the amateur groups largely to \"the popularity of, and infectious craze for performing, the Gilbert and Sullivan operas\". The National Operatic and Dramatic Association was founded in 1899. It reported, in 1914, that nearly 200 British societies were producing Gilbert and Sullivan operas that year. Carte insisted that amateur companies follow the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company staging, using its prompt books. Even after the copyrights expired at the end of 1961, the company continued to, and still does, rent out band parts to companies around the world.\n\nAfter \"Patience\", the company produced \"Iolanthe\", which opened in 1882. During its run, in February 1883, Carte signed a five-year partnership agreement with Gilbert and Sullivan, obligating them to create new operas for the company upon six months' notice. Sullivan had not intended immediately to write a new work with Gilbert, but he suffered a serious financial loss when his broker went bankrupt in November 1882 and must have felt the long-term contract necessary for his security. But he soon felt trapped. Gilbert scholar Andrew Crowther comments, regarding the agreement: \"Effectively, it made [Gilbert and Sullivan] Carte's employees – a situation which created its own resentments.\" The partnership's next opera, \"Princess Ida\", opened in January 1884. Carte soon saw that \"Ida\" was running weakly at the box office and invoked the agreement to call upon his partners for a new opera to be written. Almost from the beginning of the partnership, the musical establishment put pressure on Sullivan to abandon comic opera, and he soon regretted having signed the five-year contract. In March 1884, Sullivan told Carte that \"it is impossible for me to do another piece of the character of those already written by Gilbert and myself.\"\nDuring this conflict and others during the 1880s, Carte and Helen Lenoir frequently had to smooth over the partners' differences with a mixture of friendship and business acumen. Sullivan asked to be released from the partnership on several occasions. Nevertheless, they coaxed eight comic operas out of Gilbert and Sullivan in the 1880s. When \"Princess Ida\" closed after a comparatively short run of nine months, for the first time in the partnership's history, the next opera was not ready. To make matters worse, Gilbert suggested a plot in which people fell in love against their wills after taking a magic lozenge – a scenario that Sullivan had previously rejected, and he now rejected the \"lozenge plot\" again. Gilbert eventually came up with a new idea and began work in May 1884.\n\nThe company produced the first revival of \"The Sorcerer\", together with \"Trial by Jury\", and matinees of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" played by a cast of children, while waiting for the new work to be completed. This became the partnership's most successful opera, \"The Mikado\", which opened in March 1885. The piece satirised British institutions by setting them in a fictional Japan. At the same time, it took advantage of the Victorian craze for the exotic Far East using the \"picturesque\" scenery and costumes of Japan. \"The Mikado\" became the partnership's longest-running hit, enjoying 672 performances at the Savoy Theatre, the second longest run for any work of musical theatre up to that time, and it was extraordinarily popular in the U.S. and worldwide. It remains the most frequently performed Savoy opera. Beginning with \"The Mikado\", Hawes Craven, the designer of the sets for Henry Irving's spectacular Shakespeare productions at the Lyceum Theatre, designed all of the D'Oyly Carte sets until 1893.\n\nThe partnership's next opera was \"Ruddigore\", which opened in January 1887. It satirised and used elements of Victorian stock melodrama. The piece, though profitable, was a relative disappointment after the extraordinary success of \"The Mikado\". When \"Ruddigore\" closed after a run of only nine months, the company mounted revivals of earlier Gilbert and Sullivan operas for almost a year. After another attempt by Gilbert to persuade Sullivan to set a \"lozenge plot\", Gilbert met his collaborator half way by writing a serio-comic plot for \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", which premiered in October 1888. The opera was a success, running for over a year, with strong New York and touring productions. During the run, in March 1889, Sullivan again expressed reluctance to write another comic opera, asking if Gilbert would write a \"dramatic work on a larger musical scale\". Gilbert declined, but offered a compromise that Sullivan ultimately accepted: The two would write a light opera for the Savoy, and at the same time, Sullivan could work on a grand opera (\"Ivanhoe\") for a new theatre that Carte was constructing to present British grand opera. The new comic opera was \"The Gondoliers\", which opened in December 1889 and became one of the partnership's greatest successes. After Carte's first wife died in 1885, Carte married Helen Lenoir in 1888, who was, by this time, nearly as important in managing the company as Carte himself.\nDuring these years, the company's high production values, and the quality of the operas, created a national and international taste for them, and the company mounted touring productions throughout the provinces, in America (generally managed by Helen), Europe and elsewhere. Queen Victoria honoured the company by calling for a Royal Command Performance of \"The Gondoliers\" at Windsor Castle in 1891. Bernard Shaw, writing in \"The World\" in October 1893, commented, \"Those who are old enough to compare the Savoy performances with those of the dark ages, taking into account the pictorial treatment of the fabrics and colours on the stage, the cultivation and intelligence of the choristers, the quality of the orchestra, and the degree of artistic good breeding, so to speak, expected from the principals, best know how great an advance has been made by Mr. D'Oyly Carte.\"\n\nOn 22 April 1890, during the run of \"The Gondoliers\", Gilbert discovered that maintenance expenses for the theatre, including a new £500 carpet for the front lobby of the theatre, were being charged to the partnership instead of borne by Carte. Gilbert confronted Carte, and Carte refused to reconsider the accounts: Even though the amount of the charge was not great, Gilbert felt it was a moral issue involving Carte's integrity, and he could not look past it. Gilbert wrote in a letter to Sullivan that \"I left him with the remark that it was a mistake to kick down the ladder by which he had risen\". Helen Carte wrote that Gilbert had addressed Carte \"in a way that I should not have thought you would have used to an offending menial.\" Gilbert brought a lawsuit, but Sullivan sided with Carte, who was building the Royal English Opera House, the inaugural production of which was to be Sullivan's forthcoming grand opera. Gilbert won the suit, but the partnership disbanded.\n\nSullivan's opera, \"Ivanhoe\", had a successful run, but no other operas shared Carte's new opera house, and so the theatre soon failed. Carte sold the opera house, and it eventually became the Palace Theatre.\n\nAfter \"The Gondoliers\" closed in 1891, Gilbert withdrew the performance rights to his libretti and vowed to write no more operas for the Savoy. The D'Oyly Carte company turned to new writing teams for the Savoy, first producing \"The Nautch Girl\", by George Dance, Frank Desprez and Edward Solomon, which ran for a satisfying 200 performances in 1891–92. Next was a revival of Solomon and Sydney Grundy's \"The Vicar of Bray\", which played through the summer of 1892. Grundy and Sullivan's \"Haddon Hall\" then held the stage until April 1893. While the company presented new pieces and revivals at the Savoy, Carte's touring companies continued to play throughout Britain and in America. In 1894, for example, Carte had four companies touring Britain and one playing in America.\nGilbert's aggressive, though successful, legal action had embittered Sullivan and Carte, but the partnership had been so profitable that the Cartes eventually sought to reunite Gilbert and Sullivan. The reconciliation finally came through the efforts of Tom Chappell, who published the sheet music to the Savoy operas. In 1893, the company produced the penultimate Gilbert and Sullivan collaboration, \"Utopia, Limited\". While \"Utopia\" was being prepared, the company produced \"Jane Annie\", by J. M. Barrie and Arthur Conan Doyle, with music by Ernest Ford. Despite the popularity of Barrie and Conan Doyle, the show was a flop, closing in July 1893 after only 51 performances. \"Utopia\" was the Savoy's most expensive production to date, but it ran for a comparatively disappointing 245 performances, until June 1894, turning a very modest profit. The company then played first \"Mirette\", composed by André Messager, then \"The Chieftain\", by F. C. Burnand and Sullivan. These ran for 102 and 97 performances, respectively. After \"The Chieftain\" closed, the company toured the London suburbs, while Carte leased the Savoy Theatre to the Carl Rosa Opera Company. The theatre was dark during the summer of 1895, reopening in November for a revival of \"The Mikado\". This was followed by \"The Grand Duke\", in 1896, which ran for 123 performances and was Gilbert and Sullivan's only financial failure. \"The Gondoliers\" turned out to be Gilbert and Sullivan's last big hit, and after \"The Grand Duke\", the two men never collaborated again.\n\nIn 1894, Carte had hired his son, Rupert, as an assistant. Rupert assisted Mrs. Carte and W. S. Gilbert with the first revival of \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" at the Savoy in May 1897. Throughout the later 1890s, Carte's health was declining, and Mrs. Carte assumed more and more of the responsibilities of running the opera company. She profitably managed the theatre and the provincial touring companies. The Savoy's shows during this period received comparatively short runs, including \"His Majesty\" (1897), \"The Grand Duchess of Gerolstein\" (1897), \"The Beauty Stone\" (1898) and \"The Lucky Star\" (1899), as well as revivals of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas. Sullivan's \"The Beauty Stone\" ran for only 50 performances. In 1899, the Savoy finally had a new success, with Sullivan and Basil Hood's \"The Rose of Persia\", which ran for 213 performances. Neither Carte nor Sullivan lived to see the production of Sullivan and Hood's \"The Emerald Isle\" (1901), for which Edward German completed the score.\n\nCarte left his theatre, opera company and hotels to his wife, who assumed full control of the family businesses. Her London and touring companies continued to present the Savoy operas in Britain and overseas. She leased the Savoy Theatre to William Greet in 1901 and oversaw his management of the company's revival of \"Iolanthe\" and the production of several new comic operas, including \"The Emerald Isle\" (1901), \"Merrie England\" (1902) and \"A Princess of Kensington\" (with music by Edward German, libretto by Basil Hood), which ran for four months in early 1903 and then toured. When \"A Princess of Kensington\" closed at the Savoy, Mrs. Carte leased the theatre to other managements until 8 December 1906. The company's fortunes declined for a time, and by 1904 there was only a single touring company wending its way through the British provinces, when it took a seven-month South African tour.\n\nIn 1906–07, Mrs. Carte staged a repertory season at the Savoy Theatre, with Gilbert returning to direct. The season, which included \"Yeomen\", \"The Gondoliers\", \"Patience\" and \"Iolanthe\", was a sensation and led to another in 1908–09 including \"The Mikado\", \"Pinafore\", \"Iolanthe\", \"Pirates\", \"The Gondoliers\" and \"Yeomen\". Afterwards, however, Mrs. Carte's health prevented her from staging more London seasons. She retired and leased the theatre to C. H. Workman, and the company did not perform in London again until 1919, although it continued to tour throughout Britain.\nAfter Gilbert's death in 1911, the company continued to produce productions of the operas in repertory until 1982. In 1911, Helen Carte hired J. M. Gordon as stage manager. Gordon, who was promoted to stage director in 1922, had been a member of the company and a stage manager under Gilbert's direction, and he fiercely preserved the company's performing traditions in exacting detail for 28 years. Except for \"Ruddigore\", which underwent some cuts and received a new overture, very few changes were made to the text and music of the operas as Gilbert and Sullivan had produced them, and the company stayed true to Gilbert's period settings. Even after Gordon's death, many of Gilbert's directorial concepts survived, both in the stage directions printed in the libretti and as preserved in company prompt books. Original choreography was also maintained. Some of the company's staging became accepted as traditional by Gilbert and Sullivan fans, and many of these traditional stagings are still imitated today in productions by both amateur and professional companies.\n\nHelen Carte died in 1913, and Carte's son Rupert D'Oyly Carte inherited the company. During World War I, he was away serving in the Royal Navy. According to H. M. Walbrook, \"Through the years of the Great War [the company] continued to be on tour through the country, drawing large and grateful audiences everywhere. They helped to sustain the spirits of the people during that stern period, and by so doing they helped to win the victory.\" The company also toured in North America several times, beginning with a Canadian tour in 1927.\n\nRupert D'Oyly Carte found the company's productions increasingly \"dowdy\", however, and on his return from the war, he determined to refresh them, bringing in new designers including W. Bridges-Adams for the sets, and, for the costumes, George Sheringham and Hugo Rumbold. He also commissioned new costumes from Percy Anderson who had worked with Gilbert and Richard D'Oyly Carte on the original productions of the later Savoy operas. Charles Ricketts redesigned sets and costumes for \"The Mikado\" (1926) and \"The Gondoliers\" (1929). His costumes for \"The Mikado\" were retained by all subsequent designers until 1982. In an interview in \"The Observer\" in August 1919, Carte set out his policy for staging the operas: \"They will be played precisely in their original form, without any alteration to the words, or any attempt to bring them up to date.\" This uncompromising declaration was modified in a later interview in which he said, \"the plays are all being restaged. ... Gilbert's words will be unaltered, though there will be some freshness in the method of rendering them. Artists must have scope for their individuality, and new singers cannot be tied down to imitate slavishly those who made successes in the old days.\"\nThe main company made a triumphant return to London for the 1919–20 season at the Prince's Theatre, playing most of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas in repertory and showing off the new sets and costumes. The success of this season led to additional London seasons in 1919–20, 1921–22, 1924, and 1926; the company toured the rest of the year. Carte's first London season stimulated renewed interest in the operas, and by 1920 he had established a second, smaller company to tour smaller towns. It was disbanded in 1927, although the company often ran multiple tours simultaneously.\nFor London seasons, Carte engaged guest conductors, first Geoffrey Toye, then Malcolm Sargent, who examined Sullivan's manuscript scores and purged the orchestral parts of accretions. So striking was the orchestral sound produced by Sargent that the press thought he had retouched the scores, and Carte had the pleasant duty of correcting their error. In a letter to \"The Times\", he noted that \"the details of the orchestration sounded so fresh that some of the critics thought them actually new... the opera was played last night exactly as written by Sullivan.\" Carte also hired Harry Norris, who started with the touring company, then was Toye's assistant before becoming musical director.\nIn 1917, the company made the first complete recording of a Gilbert and Sullivan opera, \"The Mikado\", for the Gramophone Company (later known as His Master's Voice). Rupert D'Oyly Carte supervised the company's recordings, including eight more acoustic recordings by 1924, and a series of complete electrical recordings in the late 1920s and early 1930s. There were additional recordings, in high fidelity, for Decca Records, in the late 1940s and early 1950s and stereo recordings in the late 1950s and early 1960s, all supervised after Rupert's death by his daughter, Bridget D'Oyly Carte.\n\nRupert D'Oyly Carte also redesigned the Savoy Theatre. On 3 June 1929 the Savoy closed, and it was completely rebuilt to designs by Frank A. Tugwell with décor by Basil Ionides. The old house had three tiers; the new one had two. The seating capacity was increased from 986 to 1,158. The theatre reopened 135 days later on 21 October 1929, with \"The Gondoliers,\" designed by Ricketts and conducted by Sargent. George Sheringham designed new productions that season of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", \"The Pirates of Penzance\", and \"Patience\" (1929, with other designs contributed by Hugo Rumbold), and he later designed costumes for \"Trial by Jury\" and \"Iolanthe\".\n\nThe Savoy also hosted London seasons for the company in 1930–31, 1933, 1941, 1951, 1954, 1961, 1963–64, and 1975. London seasons at other theatres, mostly Sadler's Wells, included summer seasons from 1935 to 1939, 1942, 1947 to 1950, 1953, 1971, 1975, 1977 and 1980; and winter seasons in 1956–57, 1958–59, 1960–61, 1963–64, 1965–66, 1967–68, and then every winter between 1969–70 and 1981–82. The company continued to tour the British provinces and abroad when it was not in London, and these tours also often included London suburbs. The company's musical director from 1929 (having been assistant musical director from 1925) was Isidore Godfrey, who retained the position until 1968 and guest conducted the company in 1975, as part of the centenary season at the Savoy Theatre. Guest conductors during Godfrey's tenure were Sargent and Boyd Neel. Henry Lytton retired in 1934 after a quarter century as the principal comedian, and the company made a highly successful eight-month North American tour with its new principal comedian, Martyn Green. In 1938, many company members participated in the Technicolor film of \"The Mikado\" produced and conducted by Geoffrey Toye.\n\nOn 3 September 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, the British government ordered the immediate and indefinite closure of all theatres. Carte cancelled the autumn tour and disbanded the company. Theatres were permitted to reopen from 9 September, but it took some weeks to re-form the company. Some performers, including Martyn Green, were already committed elsewhere, and Grahame Clifford was engaged to play his roles. The company resumed touring, in Edinburgh, on Christmas Day 1939. The company continued to perform throughout the war, both on tour and in London, but in 1940 German bombing destroyed the sets and costumes for five of its shows: \"Cox and Box\", \"The Sorcerer\", \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", \"Princess Ida\" and \"Ruddigore\". The old productions of \"Pinafore\" and \"Cox and Box\" were recreated shortly after the war, and \"Ruddigore\" received a new production, planned by Carte but not seen until after his death. The other two operas took longer to rejoin the company's repertory. On the other hand, for the first wartime season, Peter Goffin, a protege of Carte's daughter, Bridget, had designed a new production of \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" first seen in January 1940, and his new \"Ruddigore\" debuted in 1948. A return to the U.S. in 1947 was very successful, and the company resumed frequent visits to America.\nRupert died in 1948, leaving a strong company to his daughter Bridget D'Oyly Carte. She soon hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager. Bridget and Lloyd also took steps to keep the productions fresh, engaging designers to redesign the costumes and scenery. Peter Goffin, who had redesigned \"Yeomen\" (1939) and \"Ruddigore\" (1948) for the company, created new settings and costumes for Bridget for half a dozen more productions: \"The Mikado\" (1952; settings only, most of the celebrated Charles Ricketts costumes being retained), \"Patience\" (1957), \"The Gondoliers\" (1958), \"Trial by Jury\" (1959), \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1961; ladies' costumes) and \"Iolanthe\" (1961). A new production of \"Princess Ida\" in 1954 was designed by James Wade. Eleanor Evans, however, was an example of one of the company's stage directors (from 1949 to 1953) who was said to be reluctant to update and freshen stagings. In 1957, Goffin designed a unit set for the company to facilitate touring, reducing the number of vans required to carry the scenery from twenty to nine. A 1957 review of \"Yeomen\" in \"The Times\" praised the production and marvelled at \"the continued vitality of the Savoy operas\", noting: \"The opera remains enchanting; the singing seems, on the whole, better and more musical than that which one used to hear, say, 30 years since; and though the acting lacks some of the richly crusted performances of those days, it is perhaps none the worse for that\". In 1949, the company began a new series of recordings with Decca, featuring Green, who had returned to the company after the war, and continued the series with his successor, Peter Pratt. The company cooperated with the production of the 1953 film \"The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan\", which used some former members of the company in the cast. In 1955, the company gave a seven-month tour to the U.S. to celebrate the 75th anniversary of its first American productions. In 1959, the company began the tradition of holding a zany \"last night\" on the last evening of each London season.\n\nWith the approaching end of the D'Oyly Carte monopoly on Gilbert and Sullivan performances, when the copyright on Gilbert's words expired in 1961 (Sullivan’s music had already come out of copyright at the end of 1950), Bridget D'Oyly Carte contributed the company and all its assets to an independent charitable trust. She endowed the trust with the company's scenery, costumes, band parts and other assets, together with a cash endowment, and supervised the production of operas on behalf of the trust until economic necessity forced the closure of the company in 1982. As it turned out, competing professional productions of Gilbert and Sullivan did not harm the company. Beginning in 1960, the company re-recorded all of the operas with Pratt's successor, John Reed, and also recorded a number of other Sullivan pieces. It made a cinema film of \"The Mikado\" in 1966, and recorded for television broadcast its productions of \"Patience\" (1965) and \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1973). It also supplied the soundtrack for a cartoon film of \"Ruddigore\" (1967). During the 1960s, the company gave five North American tours. A new stage director, Michael Heyland, was hired in 1969, staying until 1978. Among his new productions were \"The Sorcerer\" in 1971, \"Utopia, Limited\" in 1975 and \"Iolanthe\" in 1977.\n\nIn March and April 1975, after the regular London season at Sadler's Wells, the company moved to the Savoy Theatre for a fortnight's centennial performances, beginning on 25 March, the 100th anniversary of the first performance of \"Trial by Jury\". All thirteen surviving Gilbert and Sullivan operas were performed in chronological order. \"Trial by Jury\" was given four times, as a curtain raiser to \"The Sorcerer\", \"Pinafore\" and \"Pirates\" and as an afterpiece following \"The Grand Duke\". Before the first of the four performances of \"Trial\", a specially written curtain raiser by William Douglas-Home, called \"Dramatic Licence\", was played by Peter Pratt as Richard D'Oyly Carte, Kenneth Sandford as Gilbert and John Ayldon as Sullivan, in which Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte plan the birth of \"Trial\" in 1875; afterwards, the prime minister, Harold Wilson, and Bridget D'Oyly Carte each gave a short speech. A highlight of the season was a new staging of \"Utopia Limited\" (later given again at the Royal Festival Hall), its first revival by the company. \"The Grand Duke\" was given as a concert performance, with narration by the BBC presenter Richard Baker. Royston Nash, who was at the company's musical helm from 1971 to 1979, conducted most of the performances, with Isidore Godfrey (\"Pinafore\") and Sir Charles Mackerras (\"Pirates\" and \"Mikado\") as guest conductors. Princes Philip and Andrew saw \"The Gondoliers\". In the final performance of \"Trial by Jury\", the regular D'Oyly Carte chorus was augmented by fourteen former stars of the company: Sylvia Cecil, Elsie Griffin, Ivan Menzies, John Dean, Radley Flynn, Elizabeth Nickell-Lean, Ella Halman, Leonard Osborn, Cynthia Morey, Jeffrey Skitch, Alan Barrett, Mary Sansom, Philip Potter and Gillian Humphreys.\n\nIn 1977, during Queen Elizabeth II's Jubilee Year, the company gave a Royal Command Performance of \"Pinafore\" at Windsor Castle. The company visited Denmark in 1970, Rome in 1974, and gave its last American tours in 1976 and 1978. Its last tour, in Australasia, conducted by the company's new musical director, Fraser Goulding, was a success in 1979. Throughout the 20th century, until 1982, the company toured, on average, for 35 weeks per year (in addition to its 13-week London seasons), fostering a \"strong family atmosphere, reinforced by the number of marriages in the company and the fact that so many people stayed with it for so long.\" Principal soprano Valerie Masterson married the company's principal flautist, Andrew March. She explained, \"people didn't have flats or houses ... touring was your life.\" Throughout its history, the company maintained strict moral standards, and it was sometimes referred to as the \"Savoy boarding school\", enforcing policies regarding behaviour on and off stage, and even a dress code. Soprano Cynthia Morey ascribed the strong affection that artists had for the company to \"the unique family atmosphere engendered by the company's direct descent from its creators, Gilbert, Sullivan ... Richard D'Oyly Carte, followed by his widow, Helen, his son Rupert, and finally his granddaughter Bridget.\" The company also preserved, for over a century, what \"The Times\" called a \"unique performance style, which may be summarised as a combination of good taste and good fun\".\nAfter the 1979 tour, the rising costs of mounting year-round professional light opera without any government support, despite some generous private contributions, caused the company to accrue increasing losses. in 1980, the English Arts Council's Music Panel and Touring Committee recommended that the Arts Council make a grant to the company, but this idea was rejected. The company's fans made an effort to raise private funds, but these were insufficient to make up the accelerating losses. In 1981, producer George Walker proposed to film the company performing all of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas but backed out. Bridget D'Oyly Carte was forced to close the company in 1982, after a final London season in which John Reed and Valerie Masterson returned as guest artists. It gave its last performance on 27 February 1982, at the Adelphi Theatre. A three-LP recording of this performance was released, which included songs from all of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas. The company had operated nearly continuously for 107 years since the opening of \"Trial by Jury\" in 1875. Even after it closed, however, the company's productions continued to influence the productions of other companies.\n\nDame Bridget D’Oyly Carte died in 1985, leaving in her will a £1 million legacy to enable the company to be revived. The company secured sponsorship from Sir Michael Bishop, who later became chairman of the board of trustees, the Birmingham City Council and BMI British Midland Airways (of which Bishop is chairman). Richard Condon was appointed the revived company's first general manager, and Bramwell Tovey was its first musical director. In succeeding seasons, the company's productions of \"The Mikado\" and \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" were nominated for Olivier Awards. From 1988 to 2003, the company mounted productions of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas on tour and in London, and it produced several operettas by Offenbach, Lehár and Strauss. Unlike the original company, which had regularly performed up to a dozen operas each year, 48 weeks a year, the new company generally presented only one or two operas in shorter seasons. In the first season, in 1988, the operas played were \"Iolanthe\" and \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", both starring Gillian Knight. The company made its debut at the Sunderland Empire Theatre on 29 April 1988, and, after touring, opened in London at the Cambridge Theatre in July. The press notices were good, particularly about the musical aspects of the new company; opinion was divided about the staging. \"The Observer\" thought the productions \"miles superior to the later work of the old D'Oyly Carte; better designed, better lit ... better played and better sung.\" A review in \"The Guardian\" praised the musical standards, but added, \"Gilbert and Sullivan is as much theatrical as musical entertainment and there remains a lot to be done on the visual side.\"\n\nThe two operas presented in 1989 were \"The Mikado\" and \"The Pirates of Penzance.\" The new company's first three productions were broadly traditional in their staging. The \"Pirates\", however, marked a break with traditional presentations, with the setting a giant toy-box and a collapsible toy boat. In 1990 the company presented campier versions of \"Pinafore\" and \"Trial\" (including a heavily pregnant Angelina) that were much criticised by the old company's fans, who complained that it was a betrayal of the legacy left by Bridget D'Oyly Carte. The next season departed further from earnest presentations in its production of \"The Gondoliers\", which included a deeply corrugated stage floor, \"startling\", \"surreal, primary coloured, starkly angled sets\", gimmicky distracting business and generally staging that was considered \"way over the top\". It \"was unveiled to storms of outraged booing\". Most of the critics shared the public's disapproval of the production. \"The Times\" wrote, \"The satiric point disappears in meretricious ado and humourless humour\". Some critics, however, thought that it was time to sweep away \"bad and lazy\" traditions of the old company, calling the production \"riotous, zany and subversive ... with a Goonish or Pythonesque sense of slapstick comedy\", noting that \"The girls are pretty and the boys are handsome, and they sing and dance with a youthful freshness\". Also in 1991, the company accepted an offer from the Alexandra Theatre, Birmingham, to make its base there, although its pattern of spring national tours and summer London seasons was not affected.\n\nAnother initiative was to stage a foreign operetta for the first time since Richard D'Oyly Carte's day, in what would be D'Oyly Carte's first co-production. The work chosen was \"Orpheus in the Underworld\", which Opera North presented in 1992 and D'Oyly Carte toured in 1993 as part of its 35-week tour celebrating the 150th anniversary of Sullivan's birth. The innovation was welcomed, receiving an Arts Council Grant, and the company later presented \"Die Fledermaus\" (1994), \"La Vie parisienne\" (1995) and \"The Count of Luxembourg\" (1997). Of the Savoy operas, the new company never staged \"The Sorcerer\", \"Patience\", \"Princess Ida\", \"Ruddigore\", \"Utopia\" and \"The Grand Duke\", stating that they lacked box-office potential.\n\nUnlike its predecessor, the new company was not a permanent ensemble with a recognisable style. Some performers appeared in several productions, but each production was cast anew, often with guest stars from British television in leading roles, with varying degrees of success. The chorus and orchestra of the new company were much smaller than those of the old company: the chorus was reduced from 32 (or more) to 20, and the orchestra from 38 generally to 24. For a 1998 production of \"Pirates\" at the Queen's Theatre, the orchestra was even smaller: \"The Guardian\" wrote, \"The goings-on in the pit are dispiriting. Budgetary constraints have forced the company to re-write the score for a band of nine instrumentalists. They play well enough, but every one of Sullivan's parodies loses its clout.\" The company received a modest Arts Council grant in 1997 to keep it afloat and turned to private funding from Raymond Gubbay for London seasons beginning in 1998. Despite the lean forces, the company received generally favourable reviews over the next five years under the management of Ian Martin. Although the new company's productions met with mixed reviews, some of its recordings have been well received. Many of these recordings also restore music that had been cut by Gilbert and Sullivan or the company over the years. Gubbay felt over-committed by 2003 and pulled out. After fifteen years, with no Arts Council funding forthcoming, the company suspended productions in May 2003.\n\nFrom May to July 2013, Scottish Opera produced a British touring production of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" in partnership with the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, although it was not reported what role the latter company took in the producing team. Richard Suart played Major-General Stanley and Nicholas Sharratt played Frederic. \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"The Guardian\" and \"The Times\" each gave the production three out of five stars. The company is co-producing \"The Mikado\" with Scottish Opera on tour in May to July 2016, directed by Martin Lloyd-Evans and starring Suart, Sharatt, Andrew Shore, Rebecca de Pont Davies and Rebecca Bottone.\n\nGilbert and Sullivan aficionados frequently use the names of the principal comedians of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company to refer to time periods of the company's history. Thus, after the sudden death of Sullivan's brother Fred, who had created the role of the Learned Judge in \"Trial by Jury\" in 1875, the unknown George Grossmith was recruited in 1877. Before Grossmith left the company in 1889, he created the principal comic roles in nine of the operas, and so the principal comedian parts in the operas are often referred to as the \"Grossmith\" roles. Other performers who created a long series of roles in the original productions of the operas included baritone Rutland Barrington, mezzo-soprano Jessie Bond, soprano Leonora Braham, contralto Rosina Brandram, tenor Durward Lely and bass-baritone Richard Temple. In the original New York City productions and British touring productions, soprano Geraldine Ulmar, baritone Signor Brocolini, comic George Thorne and bass-baritone Fred Billington became particularly well known.\nAfter Grossmith left the company, the most notable players of his roles during the rest of Gilbert's lifetime were Walter Passmore (principal comedian from 1894 to 1903) and Charles H. Workman, who played the roles on tour with the company from 1897 and took over as principal comedian at the Savoy between 1906 and 1909. Both of these performers made recordings of songs from the Savoy operas. During the Passmore era, principal players of the company included Brandram and Barrington, as well as tenor Robert Evett, soprano Isabel Jay, sopranos Ruth Vincent and Florence St. John, tenor Courtice Pounds and his sister, mezzo-soprano Louie Pounds. During Workman's tenure, principal players included contralto Louie René, soprano Clara Dow, Leo Sheffield, and a young Henry Lytton. No complete recordings of the operas were made that included active members of the Company until the 1920s. Workman and W. S. Gilbert quarrelled over their production of \"Fallen Fairies\" in 1909, and Gilbert banned Workman from appearing in his works in Britain. It is likely that, otherwise, Workman would have continued as principal comedian of the company. Indeed, Rupert D'Oyly Carte wrote to Workman in 1919 asking him to return to the company as principal comedian, but Workman declined.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1934, the principal comedian was Henry Lytton, who had been playing a variety of roles with the company steadily since 1887. He received a knighthood for his performances during his long tenure with the company. Lytton's voice deteriorated during his later career, and when HMV embarked on a series of complete recordings of the operas after World War I, Lytton was not invited to record most of his roles. Instead, the concert singer George Baker was brought in to substitute. Other performers from this period include mezzo-soprano Nellie Briercliffe, bass-baritone Darrell Fancourt, who is estimated to have portrayed the Mikado of Japan more than 3,000 times, contralto Bertha Lewis, tenor Derek Oldham, soprano Elsie Griffin and baritones Leo Sheffield and Sydney Granville.\nLytton was succeeded in 1934 by Martyn Green, who played the principal comic parts until 1951, except for a gap from the end of 1939 to 1946, when Grahame Clifford replaced him. Green's time with the company is remembered for the early Decca recordings of the operas. During Green's tenure, in addition to the long-serving Fancourt, principal players included baritone Richard Walker, soprano Helen Roberts, mezzo-soprano Marjorie Eyre, baritone Leslie Rands and contralto Ella Halman. Green was followed by Peter Pratt. He left the company in 1959, after more than eight years as principal comedian, still only 36 years old. During Pratt's years, principals included bass-baritone Donald Adams, tenor Leonard Osborn (who later directed the productions), contralto Ann Drummond-Grant and mezzo-soprano Joyce Wright.\n\nPratt's successor was John Reed, who served as principal comedian for two decades. Other stars from this era were Thomas Round, Donald Adams, Gillian Knight, Valerie Masterson and Kenneth Sandford, all of whom, except the last, left the company for the wider operatic stage of Covent Garden, Sadler's Wells, English National Opera, Aix-en-Provence and elsewhere. When Reed left the company in 1979, his understudy James Conroy-Ward took over until the closure of the company in 1982.\n\nFrom 1988, the revived company used guest artists for each production. The most regularly seen principal comedians were Eric Roberts and Richard Suart, both of whom regularly perform the \"Grossmith\" roles for other opera companies. Others have included Sam Kelly, Jasper Carrott and Simon Butteriss.\n\nIn 1948, Flanders and Swann wrote a song called \"In the D'Oyly Cart\", a satire of the company and the rote \"business\" and gestures that it was accused of repeating. The song was first performed in the revue \"Oranges and Lemons\" (1948) and revived in \"Penny Plain\" (1951). It was broadcast in 1974 and included as the first track on the 1975 Flanders and Swann album, \"And Then We Wrote\".\n\nA one-act parody, called \"A \"G. & S.\" Cocktail; or, A Mixed Savoy Grill\", written by Lauri Wylie, with music by Herman Finck, premiered on 9 March 1925 at the London Hippodrome as part of the revue \"Better Days\". It was also broadcast by the BBC. It concerned a nightmare experienced by a D'Oyly Carte tenor. The company is mentioned in the 1937 musical \"I'd Rather Be Right\", with a score by Rodgers & Hart and a book by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart.\n\nThe 1999 film \"Topsy-Turvy\", directed by Mike Leigh, depicts Richard D'Oyly Carte, Gilbert and Sullivan, as well as many members of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in events leading up to and through the composition and production of \"The Mikado\". The film was ranked on \"Empire magazine\"s 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.\n\nA children's theatre company in London is called \"Oily Cart\", a play on the name of the company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36094029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36094029", "title": "Dance on television", "text": "Dance on television\n\nThis is a list of television shows which feature dance as a central activity or theme.\n"}
{"id": "56145727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56145727", "title": "Daniel Nathan", "text": "Daniel Nathan\n\nDaniel O. Nathan is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at Texas Tech University. \nHe is known for his expertise on aesthetics, ethical theory, and philosophy of law.\nNathan defends an anti-intentionalist position in aesthetic interpretation and believes that intentionalism stems from a faulty analogy between an artwork and an utterance for communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58426166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58426166", "title": "David Roytman Luxury Judaica", "text": "David Roytman Luxury Judaica\n\nDavid Roytman Luxury Judaica is a manufacturing company established in 2015, specializing in luxury Judaica.\n\nProduction specializes Judaica such as kippahs, mezuzah cases, ketubah cases, and bags for a tallit and tefillin set. Also such fashion accessories as cufflinks, belts and pendants engraved with Jewish symbols. The company also designs individual monograms.\n\nWhile the company is incorporated in New York, design and manufacturing take place in Odessa, Ukraine. The company has outlet stores in major cities around the world, like Jerusalem, London, Moscow, New York, Odessa, Paris, St. Petersburg, Vienna and Vilnius.\n\nKippahs and other products are made from such exotic materials as crocodile leather, ostrich leather, python skin and stingray leather. Laser engraving is used to apply the company logo, which is based on the initials of its Odessa-born Israeli owner, David Roytman. A David Roytman Luxury Judaica kippah can cost over $,1000.\n\nFamous people owning David Roytman Luxury Judaica kippas are United States President Donald Trump, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Ukainian Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman.\n\nIn 2018 the company installed a high mezuzah, claimed to be the tallest mezuzah in the world, made of LED screens, on the roof of the Aish HaTorah yeshiva building in the Old City of Jerusalem, as a publicity stunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31600892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31600892", "title": "Edison Awards (India)", "text": "Edison Awards (India)\n\nEdison Awards is grand annual award presenting ceremony for people in Tamil film industry, who have made landmarks and milestones for the History of Tamil Cinema since 2009. \"Edison Awards\" is mainly named after the Inventor of Cinema \"Thomas Alva Edison\". The uniqueness of the show is mainly that, it has a vast reach in about seven countries Tamil televisions, with main broadcaster as Astro in Malaysia.\n\nThe Event is mainly organised and hosted by MyTamilMovie.com. The free-lance sponsors in the recent years are Jet Airways, Videocon, etc.\n\nThe Exclusiveness of the show bricked up by Talent Search Analysis,Live Concerts by Professional Tamil playback singer & Young Emergers and felicious dancers. Another glimpsy highlight of the event is that the awards are given based on People's Choice conceptual, implemented in ways of Online Voting, SMS Voting,and Dial-a-Vote. Mytamilmovie.com and Edison Awards has been strongly and healthily backed up by all Tamil media.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38727353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38727353", "title": "Eileen Conn", "text": "Eileen Conn\n\nEileen Conn is an American television producer and television writer. Her credits include \"Get a Life\", \"Mad About You\", \"Dream On\", \"NewsRadio\", \"Just Shoot Me!\", \"DAG\" (also co-creator), \"Courting Alex\" and currently serving as executive producer for \"Shake It Up\" (in which her husband has appeared) alongside Rob Lotterstein. Conn was co-executive producer for \"Shake It Up\" and took over the position as executive producer in Made in Japan.\n\nIn 1993, Conn married actor-comedian Larry Miller, with whom she has two children.\n"}
{"id": "33056006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33056006", "title": "Gabriele Levy", "text": "Gabriele Levy\n\nGabriele Levy (born 9 October 1958) is an Italian sculptor, writer, web master.\n\nLevy's work is entirely dedicated to the letters of the hebrew alphabet, which are made in various materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "23911031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23911031", "title": "George Besson", "text": "George Besson\n\nGeorge Besson (25 December 1882 – 19 June 1971) was a French art critic, and the founder and director of \"Cahiers d'Aujourd'hui\".\n\nIn 1971 he donated his art collection to the French state and the musée de Besançon and the musée Albert-André in Bagnols-sur-Cèze.\n"}
{"id": "4163046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4163046", "title": "Hells Bells (song)", "text": "Hells Bells (song)\n\n\"Hells Bells\" is the first track of \"Back in Black\", the seventh studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC and their comeback album after the death of lead singer Bon Scott. \"Hells Bells\" is the second single from \"Back in Black\", released on 31 October 1980. The song also appears on \"Who Made Who\", AC/DC's 1986 soundtrack to the Stephen King movie \"Maximum Overdrive\" and on both versions of 1992's \"AC/DC Live\".\n\nThe song begins with a bell slowly tolling four times, after which Angus Young starts playing the song's main riff. Malcolm Young then joins in, followed by Phil Rudd on drums and Cliff Williams on bass. The bell tolls a total of 13 times during the song's introduction.\n\nA cast bronze bell, made by John Taylor Bellfounders in Loughborough, Leicestershire, was used on the track. It is a replica of the Denison Bell in the Carillon Tower at the Loughborough War Museum. The band first attempted to record the actual Denison Bell, but that proved problematic due to disruptions by pigeons nesting in the tower. The AC/DC logo and the words \"Hell's Bell\" are engraved on the replica.\n\n\n!scope=\"col\" colspan=\"3\"|Ringtones\n\nThe song was used as the entrance music for former Major League Baseball (MLB) player Trevor Hoffman at home games from 1998 to 2010, thrilling the crowd as he emerged. The San Diego Padres' usage of \"Hells Bells\" for Hoffman was a forerunner in the heavy metal theme songs for closers used throughout MLB stadiums. The \"San Jose Mercury News\" and ESPN.com wrote that the song should be honored by the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. At Hoffman's number retirement ceremony, Brian Johnson paid tribute in a video to Hoffman for \"rocking the mound\".\n"}
{"id": "12167409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12167409", "title": "Ibn Muqla", "text": "Ibn Muqla\n\nAbu 'Ali Muhammad ibn 'Ali ibn Muqla al-Shirazi (Baghdad, 885/6 – Baghdad, 20 July 940) was a Persian official of the Abbasid Caliphate who rose to high state posts in the early 10th century. His career culminated in his own assumption of the vizierate at Baghdad thrice, in 928–930, 932–933 and 934–936. Unable to successfully challenge the growing power of regional emirs, he lost his position to the first \"amir al-umara\", Ibn Ra'iq, and died in prison. He was also a noted calligrapher.\n\nIbn Muqla was born in Baghdad, the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate, in AH 272 (885/886 CE). His career in public service began in Fars, where he served as tax collector. His rise to power in the central government came in 908, under the patronage of the powerful vizier Abu 'l-Hasan Ali ibn al-Furat, who appointed him in charge of official dispatches. It was at this time, under the ineffectual rule of Caliph al-Muqtadir (r. 908–932 CE) that the civil bureaucracy reached its apex of power in the Abbasid court, but where the achievements of previous reigns in restoring the Caliphate's fortunes collapsed due to chronic financial shortages. Throughout the period, the political scene in Baghdad was dominated by Ibn al-Furat and his faction (the Banu'l-Furat), his rival Ali ibn Isa al-Jarrah and the faction gathered around him (the Banu'l-Jarrah), and the powerful chief of the military, Mu'nis al-Khadim. Despite his close ties to Ibn al-Furat, which were re-affirmed during the latter's second tenure in 917–918, Ibn Muqla eventually turned against him. His next promotion came during the \"de facto\" 918–928 vizierate of Ali ibn Isa, when he assumed the important department (\"diwan\") of the public estates.\n\nBy cultivating the friendship of the powerful chamberlain (\"hadjib\") Nasr, Ibn Muqla managed to secure the post of vizier for himself after Ali's disgrace in 928. His vizierate however was marked by extreme internal instability, including a short-lived coup in 929, instigated by Mu'nis, which deposed al-Muqtadir in favour of his brother al-Qahir. Despite the coup's failure, Mu'nis and his close ally Ali ibn Isa now dominated the government, and led to Ibn Muqla's dismissal in 930.\nIbn Muqla was reappointed as vizier by al-Qahir when he succeeded al-Muqtadir after the latter's assassination in 932. The new caliph's attempts to assert his own authority met with opposition both from Ibn Muqla and from Mu'nis. Mu'nis started conspiring against al-Qahir, but he was arrested and killed before he could act, whereupon, after only six months in office, Ibn Muqla was dismissed. Ibn Muqla then headed another conspiracy, and in 934 al-Qahir was captured, blinded and deposed by the Baghdad troops, with his brother al-Radi succeeding him. Ibn Muqla was now appointed to his third term of office. By this time, the greatest threat faced by the Caliphate was the increasing independence of the regional governors, who had taken advantage of the internal quarrels in the Abbasid court to strengthen their own control over their provinces and withheld the taxes due to Baghdad, leaving the central government crippled. Ibn Muqla resolved to reassert his control over the neighbouring provinces by military force, and chose the Hamdanid-controlled Jazira as his first target: in 935 he launched a campaign that took the Hamdanid capital, Mosul, but he was forced to return to Baghdad. Another attempt in 936 to launch a campaign against the rebellious governor of Wasit, Muhammad ibn Ra'iq, failed to even get started. Coupled with his failure to counter the mounting financial crisis, this last disaster led to Ibn Muqla's dismissal and arrest.\n\nIbn Muqla's dismissal marks also the final end of the independence of the Abbasid caliphs, for shortly after Ibn Ra'iq was appointed to the new post of \"amir al-umara\" (\"commander of commanders\"), a military-based office that became the \"de facto\" ruler of what remained of the Caliphate and deprived the Caliph from all real authority. Ibn Ra'iq had the possessions of Ibn Muqla and his son confiscated, and Ibn Muqla in turn began to conspire against the \"amir al-umara\". Ibn Ra'iq however became aware of this, and had him imprisoned and his right hand cut off. Shortly after, even while the army of the Turkish general Bajkam was approaching Baghdad to depose Ibn Ra'iq, his tongue was cut. Despite Bajkam's success, Ibn Muqla remained in prison, where he died on 20 July 940.\n\nIbn Muqla was also famous as a calligrapher, and he or his brothers have been considered the originators of the so-called \"al-khatt al-mansub\" (\"proportioned script\") style, perfected by the 11th-century Persian calligrapher Ibn al-Bawwab. \"Khatt\" refers to the \"marking out\" of lines, which suggests that calligraphy is a demarcation of space. In the al-khatt al-mansub system letter design is related to three measurements: the size of nuqta; the height of the alif; and the circle with a diameter equal to the height of the alif.\n\nNone of Ibn Muqla's authentic work exists today, his work is only known through other sources like Ibn al-Nadim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4630223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4630223", "title": "International Festivals and Events Association", "text": "International Festivals and Events Association\n\nThe International Festivals and Events Association (IFEA) is a not-for-profit association for producers, suppliers and managers of festivals and events, which range from small county and municipal events to large-scale parades that can have attendances in the hundreds of thousands. It has members in about 38 countries on 5 continents.\n\nThe IFEA was founded in 1956, and adopted its current name in the 1980s. It is based in Boise, Idaho, United States.\n\nThe IFEA puts on a yearly international convention and expo for its members. The most recent convention and expo took place in Ottawa, Canada in September 2006. The IFEA also offers several educational courses which can lead to the professional designation of Certified Festival and Events Executive (CFEE).\n\nThe association presents the annual Haas Wilkerson Pinnacle Awards to members in Gold, Silver and Bronze to the top three of each category. In 2010, the Pasadena Tournament of Roses received 6 awards, 2 in gold, 3 in silver and one bronze.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30428567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30428567", "title": "Jan Eliasberg", "text": "Jan Eliasberg\n\nJan Pringle Eliasberg (born January 6, 1954) is an American film, theatre, and television director and writer.\n\nEliasberg is from New York City. She is the daughter of Ann Pringle Harris, an English teacher at the Fashion Institute of Technology and Jay Eliasberg, a retired vice president for research at the Columbia Broadcast Group. She has a brother, Peter Eliasberg, the managing attorney for the ACLU of Southern California and a sister, Kristin Eliasberg, an acclaimed modern dancer and writer.\n\nShe graduated magna cum laude from Wesleyan University (at the age of 20 in 1974) and earned a Master's degree at Yale School of Drama (1981).\n\nIn 1973, she co-founded \"Second Stage\" at Wesleyan, an organization of students dedicated to producing theater and other performances, which may be the country's first solely student-run volunteer theater organization.\n\nShe began her television directing career in 1986 directing an episode of \"Cagney & Lacey\". Later that year, she was hand-picked by Michael Mann to direct an episode of \"Miami Vice\", becoming the first of only three female directors of that series. She directed two more \"Miami Vice\" episodes in 1987, including \"Contempt of Court\" starring Stanley Tucci.\n\nShe was also the first woman to direct Michael Mann's \"Crime Story,\" as well as \"Wiseguy.\" Her other television directing credits include multiple episodes of Nashville, The Magicians, Blue Bloods, NCIS;Los Angeles, Parenthood, Criminal Minds, 21 Jump Street\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Sisters\" (also a producer and writer), \"Early Edition\", \"Party of Five\", among many other notable series.\n\nShe was fired from directing \"How I Got into College\" only five days into filming.\n\nShe has directing such plays as \"Spring Awakening\", \"Peer Gynt\", \"Hedda Gabler\", \"The Threepenny Opera\", the American premiere of Howard Brenton's \"Sore Throats\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\".\n\nIn 1991, Eliasberg married Neil Alan Friedman, a studio executive at Columbia Pictures. They divorced in 2008. They have a daughter, Sariel Hana Friedman, a published writer, artist and graphic designer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14000486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000486", "title": "John Orlando Parry", "text": "John Orlando Parry\n\nJohn Orlando Parry (3 January 1810 – 20 February 1879) was an English actor, pianist, artist, comedian and singer.\n\nParry, the only son of Welsh musician John Parry (known as \"Bardd Alaw\"), was born in London and, at an early age, was taught by his father to sing and to play the harp and the piano. He also studied the harp under Robert Bochsa. As Master Parry, in May 1825, he appeared as a performer on the harp. As a baritone vocalist he made his début on 7 May 1830 at the Hanover Square Rooms, in London, on the occasion of Franz Cramer's concert, when he sang Handel's \"Arm, arm, ye brave!\" with much success.\nParry was also an illustrator and artist.\n\nAfter receiving lessons from Sir George Smart in sacred and classical music, he was in demand as a singer at the Antient and Philharmonic concerts, and also at musical festivals in town and country. For him Sigismund Neukomm composed \"Napoleon's Midnight Review\", and several other songs, but his best efforts were in simple ballads. In 1833 he visited Italy, and received instruction from Luigi Lablache at Naples, where he resided some time. At Posilippo he gave a concert in a theatre belonging to impresario Domenico Barbaja, the second part of which comprised a burlesque on \"Othello\", Lablache taking the part of Brabantio; Calvarola, the Liston of Naples, playing the Moor; and Parry as Desdemona, dressed à la Madame Vestris, and singing \"Cherry Ripe\". He also appeared before the king and queen of the Two Sicilies, and gave imitations of Lablache, Rubini, and Malibran in a mock Italian trio.\n\nHe returned to England in 1834, after perfecting his command of the Italian language. He married, on 30 June 1835, Anne Combe, the daughter of Henry Combe, a surgeon. They had a daughter, Maria. In July 1836 he gave his first benefit concert at the Hanover Square Rooms, when Malibran sang for him, and he joined her in Mazzinghi's duet \"When a little farm we keep.\" Persuaded to try the stage, he came out at the St. James's Theatre, just then built by his father's old friend, John Braham, on 29 September 1836, in a burletta called \"The Sham Prince,\" written and composed by his father. He was well received, and on 6 December in the same year he appeared in John Poole's \"Delicate Attentions\", and in a burletta, \"The Village Coquettes,\" written by Charles Dickens, with music by John Hullah. Subsequently he was for a brief season at the Olympic Theatre. By 1839, Parry was becoming known as a comic singer, and in 1840 he composed a comic opera called \"Wanted, a Governess\".\n\nIn 1842 he forsook the stage for the concert-room, and was singing, with Anna Thillon and Josef Staudigl, in pieces written expressly for him by Albert Smith. Parry afterwards accompanied Camillo Sivori, Franz Liszt, Sigismund Thalberg, and others in a concert tour through the United Kingdom, and his powers as a pianist and his originality as a buffo vocalist were widely recognised. In 1849 Albert Smith wrote an entertainment entitled \"Notes Vocal and Instrumental,\" which Parry produced on 25 June 1850 at the Store Street Music Hall, Bedford Square, London, and illustrated with large water-colour paintings executed by himself. In it he indulged in monologue, sang in different voices, played the piano, and made rapid changes of his dress. The entertainment proved more acceptable to the audience than any single-handed performance since the time of Charles Mathews the elder. He was afterwards seen at Crosby Hall, Bishopsgate Street, at Willis's Rooms, King Street, St. James's, and in the provinces. On 17 August 1852 he brought out a new solo entertainment at Store Street, called \"The Portfolio for Children of all Ages\", which he continued with much success until August 1853. The strain of this engagement, however, proved excessive, and for a time he suffered from mental derangement. When somewhat recovered, he became organist at St. Jude's Church, Southsea, and gave lessons in singing.\n\nOn 4 June 1860, he joined Thomas German Reed and his wife at the Gallery of Illustration, Regent Street, London. Here he performed for nearly nine years, presenting a series of droll impersonations and musical monologues that inspired other comedians, including George Grossmith. He built comic sketches with musical illustrations around his own comic songs. He wrote these entertainments, composed his own music, and played his own accompaniments.\n\nOn 15 July 1869 a complimentary benefit was given him by a distinguished party of amateurs at the Lyceum Theatre, and on 7 February 1877 he took a farewell benefit at the Gaiety Theatre, which realised £1,300. His later years were embittered by the loss in 1877, through the defalcations of his solicitor, of the greater part of his forty years' savings.\n\nHe died at the residence of his daughter, Pembroke Lodge, East Molesey, Surrey, at the age of 69, and was buried in East Molesey cemetery. A miniature portrait of Parry by Maclise is in the possession of Horace N. Pym, Esq.\n\nParry was the composer of numerous songs and ballads, all of which he sang in his own entertainments. The following were printed: \"Wanted, a Governess\" (1840), \"Fair Daphne\" (1840), \"Anticipations of Switzerland\" (1842), \"The Accomplished Young Lady\" (1843), \"My déjeuner à la Fourchette\" (1844), \"The Polka explained\" (1844), \"Fayre Rosamond\" (1844), \"Matrimony\" (1845), \"Young England\" (1845), \"Miss Harriet and her Governess\" (1847), \"The Flying Dutchman\" (1848), \"Coralie\" (1853), \"Charming Chloe Cole\" (1854), \"Oh, send me not away from home\" (1854), \"Little Mary of the Dee\" (1855), \"In lonely bow'r bemoans the turtle dove\" (1855), \"The Tyrolese Fortune-teller\" (1867), \"Bridal Bells\" (1868), \"Cupid's Flight\" (1868), \"Don't be too particular\" (1868), \"Take a bumper and try\" (1874), and \"The Musical Wife\" (1878).\n\nDuets: \"Fond Memory\" (1855), \"A B C\" (1863), \"Tell me, gentle stranger\" (1863), \"We are two roving minstrels\" (1864), and \"Flow, gentle Deva\" (1872). He also wrote the glees, \"Come, fairies, trip it on the grass\" (prior to 1851) and \"Oh! it is that her lov'd one's away\" (1853), and \"Parables set to Music\", three numbers (1859), besides much music for the piano, including many polkas.\n\nThe Melodists' Club awarded to Parry prizes for the following songs: \"The Inchcape Bell\", \"The Flying Dutchman\", \"A Heart to let\", \"Sweet Mary mine\", \"The Gipsy's Tambourine Song\", \"Nant Gwynnant\", \"You know\", \"Constancy\", \"Fair Daphne\", and \"The Days of Yore\". Some of his songs were arranged as quadrilles by L. Negri in 1842, and L. G. Jullien's \"Buffa Quadrilles\" in 1844 were also composed from the tunes of his vocal melodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "30772653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30772653", "title": "La Sainte Courtisane", "text": "La Sainte Courtisane\n\nLa Sainte Courtisane (, French for \"The Holy Courtesan\") is an unfinished play by Oscar Wilde written in 1894. The original draft was left in a taxi cab by the author, and was never completed. It was first published in 1908 by Wilde's literary executor, Robert Ross. It has never been performed, and has been little studied.\n\n\nThe play is incomplete. The plot of the existing segment is as follows: Myrrhina is an Alexandrian noblewoman who travels to the mountains to tempt Honorius, a Christian hermit, away from goodness with her beauty and wealth. After they talk, he decides to return to sin in Alexandria while she discovers religion and chooses to remain in the desert.\n\nRobbie Ross summarises the complete plot in his introduction to \"Miscellanies\":\n\n\"Honorius the hermit, so far as I recollect the story, falls in love with the courtesan who has come to tempt him, and he reveals to her the secret of the Love of God. She immediately becomes a Christian, and is murdered by robbers; Honorius the hermit goes back to Alexandria to pursue a life of pleasure.\"\n\nOscar Wilde began work on the play in 1894, between writing \"Salome\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", but did not complete it before his trial and imprisonment. The fragments were first published in 1908 in Methuen's \"Collected Works\", along with an introduction by Robbie Ross which explained its intervening history:\n\n\"At the time of Wilde’s trial the nearly completed drama was entrusted to Mrs. Leverson, who in 1897 went to Paris on purpose to restore it to the author. Wilde immediately left the manuscript in a cab...All my attempts to recover the lost work failed. The passages here reprinted are from some odd leaves of a first draft. The play is of course not unlike Salome, though it was written in English. It expanded Wilde’s favourite theory that when you convert some one to an idea, you lose your faith in it; the same motive runs through Mr. W. H.\"\n\nWilde considered revisiting the play in 1897 after his release from prison, but he lacked motivation for literary work in this period.\n\nWilde's own opinion of the play changed over time. During his imprisonment, it was much on his mind, describing it as one among his \"beautiful coloured, musical things\". However, Ross describes his changed mood after his release:\n\"A few days later he laughingly informed me of the loss, and added that a cab was a very proper place for it. I have explained elsewhere that he looked on his plays with disdain in his last years, though he was always full of schemes for writing others.\"\n\nBiographer Richard Ellmann identifies a similarity to Anatole France's novel \"Thaïs\"; Rita Severi also suggests Saint Pelagia, Saint Mary the Egyptian, Mary Magdalen and the Queen of Sheba as models for Myrrhina, and the Indian legend of Barlaam and Josaphat as inspiration for the plot.\n\nSeveri has compared the exploration of the spiritual and sensual life to a similar thread running throughout \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\", \"Salome\" and \"The Fisherman and his Soul\", identifying it as part of \"Wilde’s Parisian, Symbolist phase\":\n\"La Sainte Courtisane is neither a comedy nor a parody. It contains all the elements of the Symbolist Mystery play: symbolic characters that embody ethical, philosophical, spiritual ideas; one main action (drama) that unfolds in three macro-sequences or tableaux and around which the whole play revolves, in some unidentified space (the desert) and time ( a timeless past); highly metaphoric, repetitive language that reverberates in the rhythmic dialogue like a music of words or, as Wilde had said of the language of Salomé, like the sound of a pearl that falls on a silver basin. Elaborate speech patterns that unfold a double meaning, an allegory.\"\nChristopher S. Nassaar described the play as \"a minor \"jeux d’esprit\"\", and places it in context as a \"bridge\" between \"Salome\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\".\n\nRudolf Wagner-Régeny set the fragments to music in 1930 for 4 speakers and chamber orchestra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21717269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21717269", "title": "Langlois Bridge at Arles", "text": "Langlois Bridge at Arles\n\nThe Langlois Bridge at Arles is the subject of four oil paintings, one watercolor and four drawings by Vincent van Gogh. The works, made in 1888 when Van Gogh lived in Arles, in southern France, represent a melding of formal and creative aspects. Van Gogh leverages a perspective frame that he built and used in The Hague to create precise lines and angles when portraying perspective.\n\nVan Gogh was influenced by Japanese woodcut prints, as evidenced by his simplified use of color to create a harmonious and unified image. Contrasting colors, such as blue and yellow, were used to bring a vibrancy to the works. He painted with an impasto, or thickly applied paint, using color to depict the reflection of light. The subject matter, a drawbridge on a canal, reminded him of his homeland in the Netherlands. He asked his brother Theo to frame and send one of the paintings to an art dealer in the Netherlands. The reconstructed Langlois Bridge is now named \"Pont Van-Gogh\".\n\nVan Gogh was 35 when he made the Langlois Bridge paintings and drawings. Living in Arles, in southern France, he was at the height of his career, producing some of his best work: sunflowers, fields, farmhouses and people of the Arles, Nîmes and Avignon areas. It was a prolific time for Van Gogh: in less than 15 months he made about 100 drawings, produced more than 200 paintings and wrote more than 200 letters.\n\nThe canals, drawbridges, windmills, thatched cottages and expansive fields of the Arles countryside reminded Van Gogh of his life in the Netherlands. Arles brought him the solace and bright sun that he sought for himself and conditions to explore painting with more vivid colors, intense color contrasts and varied brushstrokes. He also returned to the roots of his artistic training from the Netherlands, most notably with the use of a reed pen for his drawings.\n\nThe Langlois Bridge was one of the crossings over the Arles to Bouc canal. It was built in the first half of the 19th century to expand the network of canals to the Mediterranean Sea. Locks and bridges were built, too, to manage water and road traffic. Just outside Arles, the first bridge was the officially titled \"Pont de Réginel\" but better known by the keeper's name as \"Pont de Langlois\". In 1930, the original drawbridge was replaced by a reinforced concrete structure which, in 1944, was blown up by the retreating Germans who destroyed all the other bridges along the canal except for the one at Fos-sur-Mer, a port on the Mediterranean Sea. The Fos Bridge was dismantled in 1959 with a view to relocating it on the site of the Langlois Bridge but as a result of structural difficulties, it was finally reassembled at Montcalde Lock several kilometers away from the original site.\n\nAccording to letters to his brother Theo, Van Gogh began a study of women washing clothes near the Langlois Bridge about mid-March 1888 and was working on another painting of the bridge about April 2. This was the first of several versions he painted of the Langlois Bridge that crossed the Arles canal.\n\nReflecting on Van Gogh's works of the Langlois Bridge Debora Silverman, author of the book \"Van Gogh and Gauguin: The Search for Sacred Art\" comments, \"Van Gogh's depictions of the bridge have been considered a quaint exercise in nostalgia mingled with Japonist allusions.\" Van Gogh approached the making of the paintings and drawings about the bridge in a \"serious and sustained manner\" with attention to \"the structure, function, and component parts of this craft mechanism in the landscape.\"\n\nIn Arles Van Gogh began using again a perspective frame he had built in The Hague. The device was used for outdoor sightings to compare the proportion of items that were near to those that were in the distance. Some of the works of the Langlois Bridge were made with the aid of the frame. Its use \"deepened his exploration of the drawbridge as a mechanism.\"\n\nThe Langlois Bridge reminded Van Gogh of Hiroshige's print \"\". Inspired by the Japanese wood block prints, Van Gogh sought to integrate techniques from Japanese artwork into his own. In a letter to Émile Bernard about the Langlois Bridge, he wrote: \"If the Japanese are not making any progress in their own country, still it cannot be doubted that their art is being continued in France.\" With a Japanese aesthetic, Van Gogh's Langlois Bridge paintings reflect a simplified use of color to create a harmonious and unified image. Outlines were used to suggest movement. He used fewer shades of colors, preferring multiple subtle color variations. The Langlois Bridge reminded Van Gogh of Hiroshige's \"Sudden Shower on the Great Bridge\" inspiring him to use blocks of colors, like patterns of yellow against a blue sky, colors chosen to create a sense of vitality of the Japanese prints and the vibrant quality of light in southern France. These approaches created a more powerful impact and depicted the simpler, primitive quality of the country lifestyle.\n\n\"The Langlois Bridge at Arles with Women Washing\" is one of van Gogh's most iconic and best loved paintings, acknowledged as the first masterpiece of his Arles period. It depicts common canal-side activities. A little yellow cart crosses the bridge while a group of women in smocks and multicoloured caps wash linen on the shore. Van Gogh skillfully uses his knowledge of color theory and the \"law of simultaneous contrasts\" in this work. The grass is depicted with alternating brush strokes of red-orange and green. Yellow and blue complementary colors are used in the bridge, sky and river. Use of complementary colors intensifies the impact of each color creating a \"vibrant and coloristically unified whole.\"\n\nNaomi Mauer, author of \"The Pursuit of Spiritual Wisdom: The Thought and Art of Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin\" describes Van Gogh's technical and artistic execution of this painting. \n\"Compositionally, the vertical and horizontal geometry of the bridge and its reflection in the water create a great central cross which imparts a classical symmetry and equilibrium to the canvas. This central geometric framework, which is echoed and enclosed by the bands of sky above and the bank below, is relieved and enlivened by the great undulating sweep of the hill and shore, the round knot of washerwomen amid the circular ripples of the water, and the flexible, slightly curved grasses at the right. Both formally and chromatically, the \"Bridge of Langlois\" demonstrates Vincent's abstraction of nature to its essential coloristic and formal elements, and his creation from these components of a harmoniously interwoven unity in which humanity and its works are perfectly integrated.\"\n\nFor \"The Langlois Bridge at Arles (watercolor)\" Van Gogh manages to create precise details of the bridge, such as the hardware, iron supports, braces and chain pulleys with watercolor.\n\nVan Gogh used varying techniques when he created the painting, depending upon the subject and what he wanted to convey. The grass and the path in the foreground were painted rapidly. The bridge, though, was painted in greater detail, with clearly defined stone piers and wooden beams. The detail in the ropes used to lift the roadway show that they are attached to the wooden lifting gear. Van Gogh also pays close attention to the reflection of the bridge in the water. In the distance is another drawbridge.\n\nVan Gogh claimed the painting as \"something funny... I will not create every day.\" There was something about the setting for this painting that reminded him of his homeland. He asked his brother Theo to frame an earlier version of the painting in blue and gold (blue in the front, gold on the side) and offer it to an art-dealer in the Netherlands, named Tersteeg. Tersteeg knew Van Gogh and his brother Theo when they lived in The Hague. He nurtured Van Gogh's early artistic interests but their relationship suffered after Van Gogh lived with a prostitute named Sien.\n\nThe Van Gogh Museum claims that the painting is the last in a series of three, yet Silverman has identified four oil paintings and a fifth watercolor, as outlined in this article.\n\nWallraf-Richartz Museum's \"Langlois Bridge at Arles\" depicts a woman holding an umbrella as she crosses the Langlois Bridge, following a horse and buggy that just crossed the bridge. The water in the canal subtly reflects the bridge and the few clouds in the sky. Van Gogh uses impasto paint and color to reflect light, much as we would see it in with our eye. Two tall cypress trees and a white house flank the drawbridge which has a moveable center section between stone abutments. The painting is currently at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne, Germany.\n\nSoon after arriving in Arles Van Gogh asked his brother to send him a copy of Armand Cassagne's \"Guide to the Alphabet of Drawing\". His request was generated by an interest to return to foundational drawing practices, such as his use of a perspective frame for the drawings and paintings that he made of Langlois Bridge. A letter dated March 18, 1888, to his friend Émile Bernard contains a sketch of the bridge (JH 1370 below) and the color scheme he is considering adopting, clearly showing his use of sketching and drawing as a preliminary to his painting. He spoke of how the town (Arles) \"projects the strange silhouette of its drawbridge against a huge yellow sun.\"\n\nArthur C. Clarke made reference to Van Gogh's \"Bridge at Arles\" in his novel \"\". In it the character David Bowman notices the painting (along with Andrew Wyeth's \"Christina's World\") when observing the living room of \"an elegant, anonymous hotel suite\" after travelling through the Stargate.\n\nArgentine musician Luis Alberto Spinetta referenced the painting in \"Cantata de puentes amarillos\" (Spanish for \"Cantata of yellow bridges\"), one of his most celebrated songs. Spinetta came to Van Gogh's letters to Theo through his reading of the essay \"Van Gogh, The Man Suicided\" by Antonin Artaud. The track is the centerpiece of his 1973 record \"Artaud\", named after the poet, which is generally considered the greatest album in Argentine rock history.\n\nThe painting is also featured on the 30th season of \"The Amazing Race\", where as part of the detour challenge, teams will find this painting, which in reality is a elaborate sliding puzzle, requiring them to slide elements of the painting in a specific sequence in order to unlock the easel and retrieve their clue inside.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "394775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394775", "title": "Language poets", "text": "Language poets\n\nThe Language poets (or \"L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E\" poets, after the magazine of that name) are an \"avant garde\" group or tendency in United States poetry that emerged in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The poets included: Leslie Scalapino, Stephen Rodefer, Bruce Andrews, Charles Bernstein, Ron Silliman, Barrett Watten, Lyn Hejinian, Tom Mandel, Bob Perelman, Rae Armantrout, Alan Davies, Carla Harryman, Clark Coolidge, Hannah Weiner, Susan Howe, and Tina Darragh.\n\nLanguage poetry emphasizes the reader's role in bringing meaning out of a work. It played down expression, seeing the poem as a construction in and of language itself. In developing their poetics, members of the Language school took as their starting point the emphasis on method evident in the modernist tradition, particularly as represented by Gertrude Stein, William Carlos Williams, and Louis Zukofsky. Language poetry is an example of poetic postmodernism. Its immediate postmodern precursors were the New American poets, a term including the New York School, the Objectivist poets, the Black Mountain School, the Beat poets, and the San Francisco Renaissance.\n\nCertain aspects of the writing of language poets became strongly associated with the members of this group: writing that challenged the \"natural\" presence of a speaker behind the text; writing that emphasized disjunction and the materiality of the signifier; and prose poetry, especially in longer forms than had previously been favored by English-language writers, as well as other non-traditional and usually non-narrative forms.\n\nLanguage poetry has been a controversial topic in American letters from the 1970s to the present. Even the name has been controversial: while a number of poets and critics have used the name of the journal to refer to the group, many others have chosen to use the term, when they used it at all, without the equals signs. The terms \"language writing\" and \"language-centered writing\" are also commonly used, and are perhaps the most generic terms. None of the poets associated with the tendency has used the equal signs when referring to the writing collectively. Its use in some critical articles can be taken as an indicator of the author's outsider status. There is also debate about whether or not a writer can be called a language poet without being part of that specific coterie; is it a style or is it a group of people?\n\nOnline writing samples of many language poets can be found on internet sites, including blogs and sites maintained by authors and through gateways such as the Electronic Poetry Center, PennSound, and UbuWeb.\n\nThe movement has been highly decentralized. On the West Coast, an early seed of language poetry was the launch of \"This\" magazine, edited by Robert Grenier and Watten, in 1971. \"L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E\", edited by Bruce Andrews and Charles Bernstein, ran from 1978 to 1982, and was published in New York. It featured poetics, forums on writers in the movement, and themes such as \"The Politics of Poetry\" and \"Reading Stein\". Ron Silliman's poetry newsletter \"Tottel's\" (1970–81), Bruce Andrews's selections in a special issue of \"Toopick\" (1973), as well as Lyn Hejinian's editing of Tuumba Press, and James Sherry's editing of ROOF magazine also contributed to the development of ideas in language poetry. The first significant collection of language-centered poetics was the article, \"The Politics of the Referent,\" edited by Steve McCaffery for the Toronto-based publication, \"Open Letter\" (1977).\n\nIn an essay from the first issue of \"This\", Grenier declared: \"I HATE SPEECH\". Grenier's ironic statement (itself a speech act), and a questioning attitude to the referentiality of language, became central to language poets. Ron Silliman, in the introduction to his anthology \"In the American Tree,\" appealed to a number of young U.S. poets who were dissatisfied with the work of the Black Mountain and Beat poets.\n\nThe range of poetry published that focused on \"language\" in \"This,\" \"Tottel's,\" \"L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E\", and also in several other key publications and essays of the time, established the field of discussion that would emerge as Language (or L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E) poetry.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a number of magazines published poets who would become associated with the Language movement. These included \"A Hundred Posters\" (edited by Alan Davies), \"Big Deal,\" \"Dog City,\" \"Hills,\" \"Là Bas,\" \"MIAM,\" \"Oculist Witnesses,\" \"QU,\" and \"Roof.\" \"Poetics Journal,\" which published writings in poetics and was edited by Lyn Hejinian and Barrett Watten, appeared from 1982 to 1998. Significant early gatherings of Language writing included Bruce Andrews's selection in \"Toopick\" (1973); Silliman's selection \"The Dwelling Place: 9 Poets\" in \"Alcheringa,\" (1975), and Charles Bernstein's \"A Language Sampler,\" in \"The Paris Review\" (1982).\n\nCertain poetry reading series, especially in New York, Washington, D.C. and San Francisco, were important venues for the performance of this new work, and for the development of dialogue and collaboration among poets. Most important were Ear Inn reading series in New York, founded in 1978 by Ted Greenwald and Charles Bernstein and later organized through James Sherry's Segue Foundation and curated by Mitch Highfill, Jeanne Lance, Andrew Levy, Rob Fitterman, Laynie Brown, Alan Davies, and The Poetry Society of New York; Folio Books in Washington, D.C., founded by Doug Lang; and the Grand Piano reading series in San Francisco, which was curated by Barrett Watten, Ron Silliman, Tom Mandel, Rae Armantrout, Ted Pearson, Carla Harryman, and Steve Benson at various times.\n\nPoets, some of whom have been mentioned above, who were associated with the first wave of Language poetry include: Rae Armantrout, Stephen Rodefer (1940–2015), Steve Benson, Abigail Child, Clark Coolidge, Tina Darragh, Alan Davies, Carla Harryman, P. Inman, Lynne Dryer, Madeline Gins, Michael Gottlieb, Fanny Howe, Susan Howe, Jackson Mac Low (1922–2004), Tom Mandel, Bernadette Mayer, Steve McCaffery, Michael Palmer, Ted Pearson, Bob Perelman, Nick Piombino, Peter Seaton (1942–2010), Joan Retallack, Erica Hunt, James Sherry, Jean Day, Kit Robinson, Ted Greenwald, Leslie Scalapino (1944–2010), Diane Ward, Rosmarie Waldrop, and Hannah Weiner (1928–1997). This list accurately reflects the high proportion of female poets across the spectrum of the Language writing movement. African-American poets associated with the movement include Hunt, Nathaniel Mackey, and Harryette Mullen.\n\nLanguage poetry emphasizes the reader's role in bringing meaning out of a work. It developed in part in response to what poets considered the uncritical use of expressive lyric sentiment among earlier poetry movements. In the 1950s and 1960s, certain groups of poets had followed William Carlos Williams in his use of idiomatic American English rather than what they considered the 'heightened', or overtly poetic language favored by the New Criticism movement. New York School poets like Frank O'Hara and the Black Mountain group emphasized both speech and everyday language in their poetry and poetics.\n\nIn contrast, some of the Language poets emphasized metonymy, synecdoche and extreme instances of paratactical structures in their compositions, which, even when employing everyday speech, created a far different texture. The result is often alien and difficult to understand at first glance, which is what Language poetry intends: for the reader to participate in creating the meaning of the poem.\n\nWatten's & Grenier's magazine This (and This Press which Watten edited), along with the magazine \"L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E\", published work by notable Black Mountain poets such as Robert Creeley and Larry Eigner. Silliman considers Language poetry to be a continuation (albeit incorporating a critique) of the earlier movements. Watten has emphasized the discontinuity between the New American poets, whose writing, he argues, privileged self-expression, and the Language poets, who see the poem as a construction in and of language itself. In contrast, Bernstein has emphasized the expressive possibilities of working with constructed, and even found, language.\n\nGertrude Stein, particularly in her writing after \"Tender Buttons,\" and Louis Zukofsky, in his book-length poem \"A,\" are the modernist poets who most influenced the Language school. In the postwar period, John Cage, Jackson Mac Low, and poets of the New York School (John Ashbery, Frank O'Hara, Ted Berrigan) and Black Mountain School (Robert Creeley, Charles Olson, and Robert Duncan) are most recognizable as precursors to the Language poets. Many of these poets used procedural methods based on mathematical sequences and other logical organising devices to structure their poetry. This practice proved highly useful to the language group. The application of process, especially at the level of the sentence, was to become the basic tenet of language praxis. Stein's influence was related to her own frequent use of language divorced from reference in her own writings. The language poets also drew on the philosophical works of Ludwig Wittgenstein, especially the concepts of language-games, meaning as use, and family resemblance among different uses, as the solution to the Problem of universals.\n\nIn many ways, what Language poetry is is still being determined. Most of the poets whose work falls within the bounds of the Language school are still alive and still active contributors. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Language poetry was widely received as a significant movement in innovative poetry in the U.S., a trend accentuated by the fact that some of its leading proponents took up academic posts in the Poetics, Creative Writing and English Literature departments in prominent universities (University of Pennsylvania, SUNY Buffalo, Wayne State University, University of California, Berkeley, University of California, San Diego, University of Maine, the Iowa Writers' Workshop).\n\nLanguage poetry also developed affiliations with literary scenes outside the States, notably England, Canada (through the Kootenay school of writing in Vancouver), France, the USSR, Brazil, Finland, Sweden, New Zealand, and Australia. It had a particularly interesting relation to the UK \"avant-garde\": in the 1970s and 1980s there were extensive contacts between American Language poets and veteran UK writers like Tom Raworth and Allen Fisher, or younger figures such as Caroline Bergvall, Maggie O'Sullivan, cris cheek, and Ken Edwards (whose magazine \"Reality Studios\" was instrumental in the transatlantic dialogue between American and UK \"avant-garde\"s). Other writers, such as J.H. Prynne and those associated with the so-called \"Cambridge\" poetry scene (Rod Mengham, Douglas Oliver, Peter Riley) were perhaps more skeptical about language poetry and its associated polemics and theoretical documents, though Geoff Ward wrote a book about the phenomena.\n\nA second generation of poets influenced by the Language poets includes Eric Selland (also a noted translator of modern Japanese poetry), Lisa Robertson, Juliana Spahr, the Kootenay School poets, conceptual writing, Flarf collectives, and many others.\n\nA significant number of women poets, and magazines and anthologies of innovative women's poetry, have been associated with language poetry on both sides of the Atlantic. They often represent a distinct set of concerns. Among the poets are Leslie Scalapino, Madeline Gins, Susan Howe, Lyn Hejinian, Carla Harryman, Rae Armantrout, Jean Day, Hannah Weiner, Tina Darragh, Erica Hunt, Lynne Dreyer, Harryette Mullen, Beverly Dahlen, Johanna Drucker, Abigail Child, and Karen Mac Cormack; among the magazines HOW/ever, later the e-based journal HOW2; and among the anthologies \",\" edited by Maggie O'Sullivan for Reality Street Editions in London (1996) and Mary Margaret Sloan's \"\" (Jersey City: Talisman Publishers, 1998).\n\nTen of the Language poets, each of whom at one time curated the reading series at the San Francisco coffee house of that name, collaborated to write The Grand Piano, \"an experiment in collective autobiography\" published in ten small volumes. Editing and communication for the collaboration was accomplished over email. Authors of The Grand Piano were Lyn Hejinian, Carla Harryman, Rae Armantrout, Tom Mandel, Ron Silliman, Barrett Watten, Steve Benson, Bob Perelman, Ted Pearson, and Kit Robinson. An eleventh member of the project, Alan Bernheimer, served as an archivist and contributed one essay on the filmmaker Warren Sonbert. The authors of The Grand Piano sought to reconnect their writing practices and to \"recall and contextualize events from the period of the late 1970s.\" Each volume of \"The Grand Piano\" features essays by all ten authors in different sequence; often responding to prompts and problems arising from one another's essays in the series.\n\nSome poets, such as Norman Finkelstein, have stressed their own ambiguous relationship to \"Language poetry\", even after decades of fruitful engagement. Finkelstein, in a discussion with Mark Scroggins about \"The Grand Piano\", points to a \"risk\" when previously marginalized poets try to write their own literary histories, \"not the least of which is a self-regard bordering on narcissism\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16678600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16678600", "title": "Las Pozas", "text": "Las Pozas\n\nLas Pozas (\"the Pools\") is a surrealistic group of structures created by Edward James, more than above sea level, in a subtropical rainforest in the mountains of Mexico. It includes more than of natural waterfalls and pools interlaced with towering surrealist sculptures in concrete.\n\nLas Pozas is near the village of Xilitla, San Luis Potosí, a seven-hour drive north of Mexico City. In the early 1940s, James went to Los Angeles, California, and then decided that he \"wanted a Garden of Eden set up . . . and I saw that Mexico was far more romantic\" and had \"far more room than there is in crowded Southern California\". In Hollywood in 1941, his lifetime friend and cousin, Magic Realist painter Bridget Bate Tichenor, encouraged him to search for a surreal location in Mexico to express his diverse esoteric interests. In Cuernavaca, he hired Plutarco Gastelum as a guide. They came to know Xilitla in November 1945. Eventually, Plutarco got married and had four children. James was \"Uncle Edward\" to the children and frequently stayed with them in a house Plutarco had built, a mock-Gothic cement castle, now a hotel – La Posada El Castillo.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1984, James built scores of surreal concrete structures which carry the names \"The House on Three Floors Which Will in Fact Have Five or Four or Six\", \"The House with a Roof like a Whale\", and \"The Staircase to Heaven\". There were also plantings and beds full of tropical plants, including orchids — there were, apparently, 29,000 at Las Pozas at one time — and a variety of small homes, niches, and pens that held exotic birds and wild animals from the world over—James owned many exotic animals and once even took his pet boa constrictors to the Hotel Francis in Mexico City.\n\nMassive sculptures up to four stories tall punctuate the site. The many trails throughout the garden site are composed of steps, ramps, bridges and narrow, winding walkways that traverse the valley walls. Construction of Las Pozas cost more than $5 million. To pay for it, James sold his collection of surrealistic art at an auction.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, the Fundación Pedro y Elena Hernández, the company Cemex, and the government of San Luis Potosí paid about $2.2 million for Las Pozas and created Fondo Xilitla, a foundation that oversees the preservation and restoration of the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "22585894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22585894", "title": "List of National Treasures of Japan (ancient documents)", "text": "List of National Treasures of Japan (ancient documents)\n\nThe term \"National Treasure\" has been used in Japan to denote cultural properties since 1897.\nThe definition and the criteria have changed since the introduction of the term. These ancient documents adhere to the current definition, and have been designated National Treasures since the Law for the Protection of Cultural Properties came into effect on June 9, 1951. The items are selected by the Agency for Cultural Affairs, a special body of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, based on their \"especially high historical or artistic value\". \"Ancient documents\" is one of thirteen categories of National Treasures recognized by the agency. The list presents 62 documents or sets of documents from classical to early modern Japan, from the Asuka period to the Meiji period. The actual number of items is more than 62 because groups of related objects have been combined into single entries. The list contains items of various type such as letters, diaries, records or catalogues, certificates, imperial decrees, testaments and maps. The documents record early Japanese government and Buddhism including early Japanese contact with China, the organization of the state and life at the Japanese imperial court. They are housed in 14 Japanese cities in temples (35), museums (13), libraries or archives (6), shrines (4), universities (2) and in private collections (2). Most entries (28) in the list are located in Kyoto. The documents in this list were made predominantly with a writing brush on paper and, in many cases, present important examples of calligraphy.\n\nWriting was physically introduced to Japan from China in the form of inscribed artefacts at the beginning of the Christian era. Examples, some of which have been designated as archaeological National Treasures, include coins of the reign of Wang Mang (AD 8–25), a 1st-century gold seal from Shikanoshima, a late 2nd century iron sword from the Tōdaijiyama burial mound, the Seven-Branched Sword with inscription from 369 and a large number of bronze mirrors—the oldest dating to the 3rd century. All of these artefacts originated on the continent, most likely in China. However, the written inscriptions on them may not have been recognized as writing but instead may have been mistaken for decorations by the Japanese. When the Japanese later manufactured locally copies of original Chinese mirrors, they may have continued to believe the written inscriptions to be merely decorative.\n\nThe concept of writing came to Japan from the Korean kingdom of Baekje in the form of classical Chinese books likely written on paper and in the form of manuscript rolls (\"kansubon\"). This probably happened at the beginning of the 5th century (around 400), and certainly during the 6th century. According to legend the scholar Wani introduced the Chinese writing system as well as Confucianism to Japan. The oldest texts of Japanese origin, which show a clear understanding of the concept of writing, date to the 5th century and are—like most texts from before 700—inscriptions on stone or metal.\nExamples include three archaeological National Treasures: Suda Hachiman Shrine Mirror from about the 5th century, which is a poor copy of a Chinese original, the Inariyama Sword from 471 or 531 and the Eta Funayama burial mound sword from about the 5th century. The abrupt transition from an unfamiliarity with writing to reading and writing complicated works in a foreign language required the earliest Japanese texts be composed and read by people from the continent such as Wani. The Inariyama Sword is also the oldest example of man'yōgana use, a writing system that employs Chinese characters to represent the Japanese language. Soon after the introduction of writing, scribes were appointed to the provinces to \"record events and report conditions\".\n\nWhile writing in Japan was limited during the 5th and 6th centuries, the number of documents written locally increased in the 7th century; though most of them have been lost. By the end of the 7th century increased cultural dependence on China caused reading and writing, particularly in government and religion, to become an integral part of Japanese life. There were two major factors for this development: starting with the Taika Reforms (645–649) and continuing with the Asuka Kiyomihara Code (689) and censuses from 670 and 690, a Chinese style centralised state was formed, requiring the need for a large number of officials who were literate and educated in, among others, Confucian texts at the \"Daigakuryo\" (\"University\") founded under Emperor Tenchi. The second factor was the increasing popularity of Buddhism, which had been introduced to Japan in the mid-6th century and strongly promoted by Prince Shōtoku (574–622). The Sangyō Gisho (\"Annotated Commentaries on the Three Sutras\"), traditionally attributed to Prince Shōtoku, is the oldest extant Japanese text of any length. Buddhism required the study of sutras written in Chinese and the state founded a Sutra Copying Bureau (\"shakyōjo\") before 727. The oldest Japanese books are two chronicles, Kojiki and Nihon Shoki, from the early 8th century. While the phonogram orthography enjoyed increasing popularity during the 8th century, it was not yet used for longer prose. The modern kana, notably hiragana and katakana were developed in the Heian period.\n\nAlmost half of all entries in the list are located in Kyoto.\n\nThe table's columns (except for \"Content\" and \"Images\") are sortable pressing the arrows symbols. The following gives an overview of what is included in the table and how the sorting works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23753503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23753503", "title": "List of actors in Royal Shakespeare Company productions", "text": "List of actors in Royal Shakespeare Company productions\n\nThe following is a list of notable actors who have appeared in Royal Shakespeare Company productions and at Stratford.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46882531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46882531", "title": "List of artworks in the collection of the Royal Society of Chemistry", "text": "List of artworks in the collection of the Royal Society of Chemistry\n\nThe Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) owns a number of significant artworks in its venue at Burlington House in London. The collection is composed of busts, paintings and other artefacts that were mainly acquired between the mid-19th and early 21st Centuries (the Chemical Society was founded in 1841 and merged with others to become the RSC in 1980). Most of the acquisitions were donations from past members and staff, although a few were purchased directly by the Society.\n\nLocated along the corridor on the first floor of Burlington House, the bronze bust of Sir Humphry Davy was created by Ruby Levick and is a reproduction of an earlier sculpture by Miss Moore, donated to the Chemical Society by Rudolph Messell in 1900. At the Annual General Meeting of the Chemical Society of 29 March, Sir Thomas Edward Thorpe (President of the Society), reported on the gift of this work:\n\nSir Humphry Davy is best remembered today for his discoveries of several alkali and alkaline earth metals, as well as contributions to the discoveries of the elemental nature of chlorine and iodine.\n\nRuby Levick was a Welsh sculptor and medallist who had many of her works exhibited at the Royal Academy.\n\nThe bronze bust of John Dalton, located along the corridor on the first floor, was also created by Ruby Levick and was donated to the Chemical Society in 1903 by its former President Sir Thomas Edward Thorpe, as also attested by the inscription engraved on the bust's base: \"John Dalton presented by T.E. Thorpe CB. L.L.D. F.R.S. past President in commemoration of the centenary of the enunciation of the atomic theory\".\n\nA copy of his accompanying letter was printed in the \"Proceedings of the Chemical Society\" in 1903 and read out by President William A. Tilden:\n\nJohn Dalton was an English chemist best known for his development of atomic theory.\n\nOn the same first floor corridor, is the bronze bust representing Michael Faraday, English scientist whose studies greatly contributed to the fields of electromagnetism and electrochemistry. The bust was presented to the Chemical Society by James Emerson Reynolds (1844–1920), President of the Chemical Society from 1901 to 1903:\n\nThe marble bust on the first floor of Burlington House representing Sir William Henry Perkin was presented to the Chemical Society in 1907 by the committee administering the fund subscribed in support of the international celebration for the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the Coal Tar Colour Industry. At the Annual General Meeting of the Society, President Raphael Meldola reported on this gift:\n\nPerkin's fame is mainly related to his discovery of mauveine.\n\nThe artist, Frederick William Pomeroy, was a British sculptor mainly prolific in ideal work and portrait busts, but also creator of public monuments.\n\nNext to Perkin bust stands the marble bust representing Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe by Alfred Drury, donated to the Chemical Society Library on 20 November 1913, on the occasion of Roscoe's eightieth birthday by his friends and pupils, as also attested by the inscription on its base: .\n\nIn 1914 Professor William Perkin Jr., President of the Society, reported on the gift of this artefact: \n\nPresident of the Chemical Society between 1880–1882, Roscoe was student as well as friend of the German chemist Robert Bunsen: in their researches laid the foundation of comparative photochemistry.\n\nEnglish architectural sculptor, Drury was elected Academician of the Royal Academy of Arts in 1913. He studied at the Oxford National Art Training School and in Paris.\n\nOn the ground floor of Burlington House, on the left hand side of the entrance hall, is the bronze bust representing Baron Justus von Liebig, presented to the Chemical Society by Rudolph Messel in 1903:\nas also confirmed by the inscription on the column supporting the bust: \n\nAnother inscription, placed between the back and the right side of the bust itself, provides information about its origin: The artefact was created in Munich in 1873 by Michael Wagmüller, a German sculptor who completed a number of commissions in London and exhibited at the Royal Academy.\n\nVon Liebig is considered to have greatly contributed to the fields of agricultural and biological chemistry. He developed a manufacturing process for beef extracts and founded a company which later became Oxo. He is also credited as the inventor of Marmite.\n\nThe marble bust representing the German chemist August Wilhelm von Hofmann is located on the ground floor. It was introduced to the Chemical Society in 1876 by Mr James Duncan:\n\nThe inscription at the back certifies that this artwork was created by the German sculptor Johannes Pfuhl in Berlin in 1875.\n\nJustus von Liebig's pupil and William Perkin's mentor, von Hofmann widely contributed to the development of the organic chemistry. He was a cofounder of the German Chemical Society and President of the Chemical Society between 1861 and 1863.\n\nIn the waiting room, on the ground floor, is a bronze bust of Jean Baptiste André Dumas, the French chemist best known for his works on organic analysis and synthesis, as well as the determination of atomic weights and molecular weights by measuring vapour densities.\n\nThe sculpture was presented to the Chemical Society in 1885 by Warren De la Rue:\n\nAn inscription on the right side of the bust provides us further information: The work was created in 1883 by Jean-Baptiste Claude Eugène Guillaume, a French sculptor elected honorary member of the Royal Academy in 1869.\n\nOn the ground floor reception of Burlington House, on the left-hand side, can be found a bust of Robert Boyle, who is often regarded today as the first modern chemist.\nAcquired by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2003 from the Chelminski Gallery, this veined white marble bust was originally commissioned in 1731 from the Italian sculptor Giovanni Battista Guelfi (1690–1736) by Lord Burlington, a relative of Boyle's, for Burlington House, which was then the earl's residence in London.\nThis work, originally displayed at Lord Burlington's Palladian villa, Chiswick House, is virtually identical to that commissioned by Queen Caroline for her grotto at Richmond in 1732–3. The latter survives in the Royal Collection at Kensington Palace and has long been well-known. However, this other version of Guelfi's bust had hitherto been entirely unknown to Boyle scholars.\n\nGuelfi was an Italian sculptor who trained with Camillo Rusconi in Rome and was invited by Lord Burlington, in 1714, to move to England, where he restored the Arundel marbles and executed several portrait busts and monuments.\n\nLocated in the main hall, this artefact was created in the 18th Century. Made of gunmetal raised on a cross-banded walnut and oak base (32 cm × 44 cm. × 25.5 cm), it bears a presentation plaque with the following inscription:\n\nSamuel Harrison (1759–1833) was a split ring maker with a workshop in Lancaster Street, Birmingham. He was a member of Priestley's congregation at the New Meeting and is known to have assisted Priestley with his experiments.\n\nRight next to the airpump stands, raised on an oak plinth, a plaster, full-length figure of Joseph Priestley holding in his hands mortar and pestle, signed and inscribed \"Esher\" and dated 1874. Another inscription confirms that the statue was presented in 1920 by Mrs Bedford McNeill, as stated in the \"Journal and Proceedings of the Institute of Chemists of Great Britain and Ireland\" of that year:\nThe full size version of this sculpture by Francis John Williamson is located in Birmingham. It was originally made in marble, then re-cast in bronze and it portrays Dr Priestley absorbed in an experiment which led to his discovery of oxygen.\n\nThis painting (oil on canvas, 127 cm × 158 cm), located in the waiting room of Burlington House, was bought from the Albemarle Gallery by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2008. It is part of Stuart Luke Gatherer's \"Sins and Virtues\" collection, which illustrates the seven sins and seven virtues using modern-day professions.\nIt is based on an earlier classic, \"An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump\" (1768) by Joseph Wright, which was in turn inspired by Robert Boyle's experiment on the properties of air in the mid-17th Century: a bird is deprived of air before a diversified audience and the different reactions of the spectators prove that scientific curiosity overcomes the concern for the living creature.\n\nStuart Luke Gatherer was brought up in the Eastern Highlands of Scotland, he graduated from Edinburgh College of Art in 1995 and exhibited across Scotland, in New York and in London.\n\nOn the first floor, in the Hinshelwood Room, is a painting (oil on canvas, 20 cm × 24 cm) by Christine Payne representing the well-known thought experiment Schrödinger's cat. An introductory note provides further information:\n\nThe original series consisted of nine paintings and two of them were shown in the exhibition 'Seeing Red' at the Science Museum from November 2001 to October 2002. The venue also purchased one of the paintings for their collection.\n\nHanging on one of the walls of the Council Room is a large (21.5 cm × 18.5 cm) Wedgwood Jasperware oval portrait plaque of Dr Joseph Priestley, attributed to William Hackwood (circa 1779).\n\nThe ebonized frame is inscribed \n\nEnglish theologian, philosopher and chemist, Joseph Priestley is credited with the discovery of oxygen.\n\nWilliam Hackwood worked as prolific modeller for Josiah Wedgwood's factory between 1769 and 1832.\n\nAnother Wedgwood Jasperware oval portrait plaque (23 cm × 19 cm) is on display in the Council Room. Representing Robert Boyle, the artefacts bears, on its gilt-beaded ebonised frame, the following inscription:\n\nRobert Boyle's \"The Sceptical Chymist\" is considered a foundation in the chemistry field. He is best known for the Boyle's law, which describes the inversely proportional relationship between the absolute pressure and volume of a gas, if the temperature is kept constant within a closed system.\n\nWedgwood is a fine china, porcelain and luxury accessories company founded in 1759 by Josiah Wedgwood.\n\nIn the Council Room is also this head and shoulder portrait (oil on canvas, 61 cm × 49 cm) of Benjamin Collins Brodie, President of the Chemical Society between 1859 and 1861, chiefly known for his investigations on the allotropic states of carbon and for his discovery of graphitic acid.\n\nThe plate on the frame is so inscribed:\n\nThe painting is initialled and dated: .\n\nThe Council Room hosts a three-quarter length portrait (oil on canvas, 108 cm × 85 cm) of Baron Justus Von Liebig seated, which is signed and dated 1860.\n\nCreated by the German artist Wilhelm Trautschold, this artefact was, as its plate reads:\n\nMargaret Trautschold Hayford says Trautschold painted four portraits of Liebig, who was a close friend and a colleague of his father in law: this one is listed in the checklist of Trautschold's work as no. 34, oil 40\" x 30\", signed and dated 1860 (and as being in the Chemical Society of London). He was mainly active between 1849 and 1873 in Edinburgh, Liverpool and London.\n\nThe portrait of Thomas Graham, hanging from the Council Room's wall, was specially commissioned by the Chemical Society in 1931.\nIncoming President Professor George Henderson acknowledged this at the Annual General Meeting that year:\n\nThe artist, Herbert Ashwin Budd, was born in 1881 in Staffordshire and died in 1950. He designed posters for London Transport in 1930s. London based artist and teacher, he painted portraits, landscapes and townscapes in oils. In 1907 he became an associate of the Royal College of Art and began to exhibit widely in the UK, at the New English Art Club and regularly at the Royal Academy. In 1921 he became a member of the Royal Institute of Oil Painters and in 1927 was awarded an Honourable Mention at the Paris Salon. From 1929 to 1949 he taught at St Martin's School of Art.\n\nThomas Graham was the first President of the Chemical Society, in 1841. His main contributions to science were the studies on the diffusion of gases, resulted in \"Graham's Law\" and the discovery of the medical method known as dialysis.\n\nAnother painting in the Council Room is the half-length portrait of Robert Boyle (oil on canvas 92 cm × 78.5 cm). The \"Journal and Proceedings of the Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland\" said about the work:\n\nThe frame bears a plate with the inscription:\n\nand the painting itself is inscribed:\n\nThis three-quarter length portrait of Thomas Thomson seated at his desk (oil on board, 47 cm × 36 cm, carved giltwood frame) is another of the artefacts on display in the Council Room. Attributed to the Scottish artist John Graham Gilbert, it was presented by Dr John Naish Goldsmith, as reported by the inscription on the frame: \n\nPainter and art collector, John Graham-Gilbert exhibited most of his works between the Royal Academy in London and the Royal Scottish Academy in Edinburgh.\n\nThomson was a Scottish chemist and mineralogist who invented a saccharometer for assessing sugar content of the fermenting must. He accorded an effective support to Dalton's atomic theory.\n\nIn the Council Room, together with all the other paintings, is the three-quarter length profile portrait of Sir James Dewar (oil on canvas, 126 cm × 101 cm). The plate on the frame is so inscribed: \nThe painting is signed and dated 1923: the creator was the French artist René le Brun, Comte de L'Hôpital, who studied at the Royal Academy in London.\n\nScottish chemist and physicist, James Dewar is probably best known as the inventor of the Dewar flask.\n\nThis painting (oil on canvas, 133 cm × 103 cm) depicts Sir Cyril Norman Hinshelwood seated at his desk, three-quarter length, dressed in red academic robes. The plate's frame states:\n\nHinshelwood was an English physical chemist who gained many awards and honorary degrees. He was President of several English societies, such as the Chemical Society, the Faraday Society and the Royal Society.\n\nThe portrait is attributed to Gerald Festus Kelly, an artist born in London and educated at Cambridge University. During his life, Kelly visited many countries and exhibited more than 300 of his works at the Royal Academy, of which he was also President between 1949 and 1954.\n\nThe \"Proceedings of the Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland\" said of this painting:\n\nMember of the Royal Academy, Solomon Joseph Solomon was a British artist who produced works of different style and different subjects, being very productive as innovative portraitist.\n\nRaphael Meldola, British chemist and entomologist, was President of the Chemical Society between 1905 and 1907.\n\nLocated in the Council Room, this painting shows Michael Faraday giving one of a course of six Christmas Lectures at the Royal Institution. Focused on the distinctive properties of common metals, these lectures were delivered between 27 December 1855 and 8 January 1856. Prince Albert, the Prince Consort (Queen Victoria's husband), and the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII) are in the front row.\n\nThe painting was purchased by the Faraday Society from the private museum of the Nowel ffarington family of Worden Hall in 1949. The plate on the frame gives the artist's name, Alexander Blaikley (1816–1903). Born in Glasgow, Blaikley studied at the Trustees' Academy and at the Royal Academy, where he then exhibited most of his works.\n"}
{"id": "48724825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48724825", "title": "List of gold-glass portraits", "text": "List of gold-glass portraits\n\nThis is a list of surviving ancient Roman gold glass portraits of the finer painted sort. The majority of surviving Roman gold glass pieces are the cut-off bottoms of drinking glasses made with unpainted gold leaf. These sometimes bear the names of individuals and were probably commemorative gifts on a special occasion such as a wedding anniversary or winning a contest. Achieving a good likeness was probably not an aim, and certainly not an achievement of this class of object, and they are not included here. The objects here belong to a smaller class of finely painted portrait miniatures, although a few seem also to have been originally placed in cups. Following a table summarizing the basic information, individual portraits are discussed in separate sections.\n\nThe portrait medallion is a part of the ornamentation of the so-called Desiderius Cross, 9th-century processional crux gemmata currently preserved in Museo di Santa Giulia, Brescia, Italy.\n\nThe medallion is often referred to as a portrait of Galla Placidia and her children, but the scholarly consensus is strongly against this 18th-century identification.\n\nSome 19th-century scholars, including Raffaele Garrucci and Hermann Vopel, suspected the work to be a fake. The earliest mention of the medallion comes from a 17th-century inventory. In 1762, Francesco Antonio Zaccaria recalled that he saw it circa 1725.\n\nSeveral details indicate the Egyptian, perhaps Alexandrian origin of the medallion. Both words of the inscription () end in iota, possibly indicating the Ancient Greek dialect of Egypt; , then, means \"potter\". Stylistically, the painting is closely related to the 3rd-century mummy portraits found in the Faiyum Oasis. The costumes are more consistent with the contemporary fashions in Egypt than in Rome itself. In particular, the mantle worn by the middle figure is not fastened by a fibula, but instead knotted; one parallel for this is a 3rd-century Coptic tapestry medallion, now in the Hermitage Museum, showing the goddess Gea with her mantle knotted in a similar way. The peculiar hair style of the older woman is unknown in Roman portraiture, but can be found on some 3rd-century plaster mummy masks from Egypt. \n\nDaniel T. Howells (2015) summarizes the research into the Brescia medallion demonstrating its connection to contemporaneous Roman-Egyptian art (in particular the Fayum mummy portraits) as well as linguistic evidence proving the authenticity of the artefact versus the now dubious claim about it being a forgery. Jás Elsner (2007) also contends that the Brescia medallion likely depicts a family from Alexandria, since the inscription is in the Alexandrian dialect of Greek, and provides possible dates ranging from the early-3rd to mid-5th century AD, before it found its way to Italy where it adorned a 7th-century cross.\n\nGold-glass forgeries are known to have been forged all through the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1759, French antiquarian Anne Claude de Caylus wrote that contemporary Roman dealers were selling gold-glass reproductions to tourists who thought them original. Metropolitan Museum of Art has what are thought to be two 18th-century fake group portraits, while the British Museum has two 19th-century ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "6755407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6755407", "title": "Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet", "text": "Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet\n\nThe Solomiya Krushelnytska Lviv State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet () or Lviv Opera (, ) is an opera house located in Lviv, Ukraine's largest western city and one of its historic cultural centers. Originally built on former marshland of the submerged Poltva River, the Lviv Opera now sits at the end of Freedom Avenue (), the tree-lined centerpiece of Lviv's historic Old City, a UNESCO World Heritage Site located in the city's Halych district.\n\nAccording to the inscription in the theater lobby, the building was constructed between 1897 and 1900, and has remained standing throughout several changes in history. Originally built when Lviv was the capital of the autonomous province of Galicia in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Lviv Opera () first stood at the end of Archduke Karl Ludwig Avenue, was later known as the Grand Theatre () of the Second Polish Republic, and during the time of Soviet rule, entering patrons would pass by a towering statue of Vladimir Lenin. For four decades, the theater was known as the \"Ivan Franko Lviv State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet\", having been renamed in 1956 after the city's famous poet and political activist on the centenary of his birth. In 2000, the Lviv Opera celebrated its own centennial with another renaming, this time after one of the city's native daughters, Solomiya Krushelnytska, a renowned soprano of the early 20th century.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, local leaders felt the need for a large city theatre to be situated in the capital of Galicia (, ). In 1895, the city announced an architectural design competition, which attracted a large number of submissions. Among the participants were the renowned Viennese architects Fellner & Helmer, whose entry was rejected as too international and eclectic.\n\nAn independent jury chose the design by Zygmunt Gorgolewski, a graduate of the Berlin Building Academy and the director of city's Engineering Academy. Gorgolewski pleasantly surprised the jury by planning to locate the building in the center of the city, despite the area having been already densely built-up. In order to solve the space problem, he boldly proposed to enclose the Poltva River underground, and instead of using a traditional foundation, utilized a reinforced concrete base for the first time in Europe.\n\nIn June 1897, the cornerstone was placed. Gorgolewski oversaw construction, earthwork and design, employing the leading stonemasons from the city and beyond. Local materials were used wherever possible, however marble elements were manufactured in Vienna, special linen for painting in the foyer was imported from Belgium. The Austrian company Siemens was ran the electrical wiring and lights, while the hydraulic mechanization of the stage was built by the Polish railway workshop company in Sanok.\n\nConstruction continued for three years. Funding came from the city, the surrounding communities, and from voluntary donations. The cost of the works totaled 6 million Austrian crowns.\n\nStories remain that despite the engineering innovations used by Gorgolewski to construct the foundation of the building, it began to slowly sink because of the Poltva river running underneath it in a tunnel. Learning of the flaw, the architect took it to heart and fell into depression, and hung himself. This is not borne out by facts, as the engineer actually died of heart disease. After some initial settling, the building ceased 'sinking' and remains stable to this day, owing to the innovative design of Gorgolewski.\n\nThe Lviv Opera opened on October 4, 1900. The cultural elite—painters, writers, and composers, as well as delegations from various European theatres—attended the opening festivities. Among the guests attending the ceremony were writer Henryk Sienkiewicz, composer Ignacy Jan Paderewski, the painter Henryk Siemiradzki, the Chief magistrate of Lviv Godzimir Małachowski, the provincial governor Leon Piniński and head of the provincial assembly Count Stanisław Badeni. A delegation from the city of Prague was headed by mayor Vladimir Srb and former director of the National Theatre, František Adolf Šubert. Due to recent deaths of both the Roman Catholic and Greek Catholic archbishops, the building was blessed by the Armenian Catholic archbishop of Lviv, Izaak Mikołaj Isakowicz, alongside rabbi Ezechiel Caro and the Protestant pastor Garfel.\n\nThe grand opening gala that evening included excerpts from: \n\nThe Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet is built in the classical tradition with using forms and details of Renaissance and Baroque architecture, also known as the Viennese neo-Renaissance style. The stucco mouldings and oil paintings on the walls and ceilings of the multi-tiered auditorium and foyer give it a richly festive appearance. The Opera's imposing facade is opulently decorated with numerous niches, Corinthian columns, pilasters, balustrades, cornices, statues, reliefs and stucco garlands. Standing in niches on either side of the main entrance are allegorical figures representing Comedy and Tragedy sculpted by Antoni Popiel and Tadeusz Baroncz; figures of muses embellish the top of the cornice. The building is crowned by large bronze statues, symbolizing Glory, Poetry and Music.\n\nThe theatre, beautifully decorated inside and outside, became a centrefold of the achievements in sculpture and painting of Western Europe at the end of the 19th century. The internal decoration was prepared by some of the most renowned Polish artists of the time. Among them were Stanisław Wójcik (allegorical sculptures of Poetry, Music, Fame, Fortune, Comedy and Tragedy), Julian Markowski, Tadeusz Wiśniowiecki, Tadeusz Barącz, Piotr Wojtowicz (relief depicting the coat of arms of Lviv), Juliusz Bełtowski (bas-relief of Gorgolewski) and Antoni Popiel (sculptures of Muses decorating the façade).\n\nAmong the painters to decorate the interior were Tadeusz Popiel (staircases), Stanisław Rejchan (main hall), Stanisław Dębicki, Stanisław Kaczor-Batowski and Marceli Harasimowicz (foyer). The team supervised by the abovementioned artists included further painters, among them Aleksander Augustynowicz, Ludwik Kohler, Walery Kryciński, Henryk Kuhn, Edward Pietsch, Zygmunt Rozwadowski, Tadeusz Rybkowski and Julian Zuber. The main curtain was decorated by Henryk Siemiradzki.\n\n\"a.\" \"The Habsburg Empire. The World of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in Original Photographs 1840-1916\" by Franz Hubmann, Vienna, 1971, attributes this theatre to Fellner & Helmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "45697968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45697968", "title": "Male gaze", "text": "Male gaze\n\nIn feminist theory, the male gaze is the act of depicting women and the world, in the visual arts and literature, from a masculine, heterosexual perspective that presents and represents women as sexual objects for the pleasure of the male viewer. The male gaze has three perspectives: (i) that of the person behind the camera, (ii) that of the characters within the representation, and (iii) that of the spectator.\n\nThe film critic Laura Mulvey coined the term \"male gaze\", which is contrasted with the concept of the female gaze; as such, the male gaze is comparable to scopophilia, which is sexual pleasure derived from observing the passive female as object.\n\nThe concept of the male gaze was first developed by the feminist film critic Laura Mulvey in the essay \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\" (1975), in which she proposes that an asymmetry of power between the sexes is a controlling force in cinema; and that the male gaze is constructed for the pleasure of the male viewer, which is deeply rooted in the ideologies and discourses of patriarchy. Conceptually, the male gaze is a prominent element of feminist film theory and media studies, and is linked to models of voyeurism, scopophilia, and narcissism.\n\nThe perspective of the male gaze occurs when the camera places the viewer in the perspective of a heterosexual man whose sight lingers on the curves of a woman's body. Usually, the male gaze displays the woman on two different levels: (i) as an erotic object for the characters in the film story, and (ii) as an erotic object for the male viewer of the film. By way of the male gaze, the man emerges as the dominant power within the film fantasy, in which the woman is a passive object for the active gaze of the male viewer. The passive-object and active-viewer pairing is basic to the patriarchal order, and is typical in the \"illusionistic narrative film\" of mainstream cinema, where the male gaze has precedence over the female gaze — the underlying asymmetry of social and political power, between the sexes.\n\nThis inequality can be attributed to patriarchy which has been defined as a social ideology embedded in the belief systems of Western culture and in patriarchal societies. It is either masculine individuals or institutions created by these individuals that exert the power to determine what is considered \"natural\". Over the course of time, these constructed beliefs begin to seem \"natural\" or \"normal\" because they are prevalent and carry out unchallenged, thus arguing that Western culture has adopted a dyadic, hierarchical ideology which sets masculinity in binary opposition to femininity thus creating levels of inferiority.\n\nMulvey describes its two central forms that are based in Freud's concept of scopophilia, as: \"pleasure that is linked to sexual attraction (voyeurism in extremis) and scopophilic pleasure that is linked to narcissistic identification (the introjection of ideal egos)\", in order to demonstrate how women have historically been forced to view film through the \"male gaze\". It also suggests that the male gaze denies women their human identity, relegating them to the status of objects to be admired for physical appearance and male sexual desires and fantasies.\n\nIn \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\", Mulvey discusses several different types of spectatorship that may occur while viewing a film. They can involve unconsciously or, in some cases, consciously engaging in the typical, ascribed societal roles of men and women.\n\nIn relation to phallocentrism, films may be viewed in \"three different looks\"; the first refers to the camera as it records the actual events of the film, the second describes the nearly voyeuristic act of the audience as one engages in watching the film itself, and the third refers to the characters that interact with one another throughout the film. The main idea that seems to bring these actions together is that \"looking\" is generally seen as an active male role, while the passive role of being looked at is immediately adopted as a female characteristic. It is under the construction of patriarchy that Mulvey argues that women in film are tied to desire and that female characters hold an \"appearance coded for strong visual and erotic impact\". The female actor is never meant to represent a character that directly affects the outcome of a plot or keep the story line going, but is inserted into the film as a way of supporting the male role and \"bearing the burden of sexual objectification\" that he cannot.\n\nIn other words, the woman is passive to the active gaze from the man and can be linked to scopophilia (or scoptophilia), which can be described as pleasure derived from looking. As an expression of sexuality, scopophilia refers to sexual pleasure derived from looking at erotic objects: erotic photographs, pornography, naked bodies, etc. \nIn sum, according to Mulvey, the categories of pleasurable viewing are twofold: voyeurism, which derives pleasure from viewing a distant other, and projecting one's fantasies, usually sexual, onto that person, and narcissism, a form of recognition of one's self in the image of another we are viewing. Mulvey also believes that in order to enjoy a film as a woman, or any gender other than male, we must learn to identify with the male protagonist. Wendy Arons adds that hypersexualization diminishes the symbolic threat posed by violent female characters in action films, \"The focus on the body—as a body in ostentatious display of breasts, legs, and buttocks—does mitigate the threat that women pose to 'the very fabric of... society' by reassuring the (male) viewer of his privilege as the possessor of the objectifying gaze.\"\n\nMulvey's essay also states that the female gaze is the same as the male gaze. This means that women look at themselves through the eyes of men. The male gaze may be seen by a feminist either as a manifestation of unequal power between gazer and gazed, or as a conscious or subconscious attempt to develop that inequality. From this perspective, a woman who welcomes an objectifying gaze may be simply conforming to norms established to benefit men, thereby reinforcing the power of the gaze to reduce a recipient to an object. Welcoming such objectification may be viewed as akin to exhibitionism.\n\nThe possibility of an analogous female gaze may arise from considering the male gaze. Mulvey argues that \"the male figure cannot bear the burden of sexual objectification. Man is reluctant to gaze\". Describing \"Wide Sargasso Sea\" (1966), by Jean Rhys, Nalini Paul indicates that the Antoinette character gazes at Rochester, placing a garland upon him, making him appear heroic: \"Rochester does not feel comfortable with having this role enforced upon him; thus, he rejects it by removing the garland, and crushing the flowers.\"\n\nFrom the male perspective, a man possesses the gaze because he is a man, whereas a woman has the gaze only when she assumes the male gazer role—when she objectifies others by gazing at them like a man. Eva-Maria Jacobsson supports Paul's description of the \"female gaze\" as \"a mere cross-identification with masculinity\", yet evidence of women's objectification of men—the discrete existence of a \"female gaze\"—can be found in the \"boy toy\" ads published in teen magazines, for example, despite Mulvey's contention that \"the gaze\" is \"property\" of one gender. Whether or not this is an example of female gaze or rather an internalized male gaze is up for debate, along with the other ideas on this subject. In terms of power relationships, the gazer can direct a gaze upon members of the same gender for asexual reasons, such as comparing the gazer's body image and clothing to those of the gazed-at individual.\n\nWith respect to her essay, Mulvey stressed in a 2011 interview with Roberta Sassatelli: \"First, that the 1975 article \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\" was written as a polemic, and as Mandy Merck has described it, as a manifesto; so I had no interest in modifying the argument. Clearly I think, in retrospect from a more nuanced perspective, about the inescapability of the male gaze.\"\n\nBracha Ettinger criticizes this notion of the male gaze by her proposition of a \"matrixial gaze\". The matrixial gaze is not operative where a \"male gaze\" is placed opposite to a \"female gaze\" and where both positive entities constitute each other from a lack (such an umbrella concept of the gaze would precisely be what scholars such as Slavoj Žižek claim is the Lacanian definition of \"The Gaze\"). Ettinger's proposal doesn't concern a subject and its object, existing or lacking. Rather, it concerns \"trans-subjectivity\" and shareability on a partial level, and it is based on her claim concerning a feminine-matrixial difference that escapes the phallic opposition of masculine/feminine and is produced in a process of co-emergence. Ettinger works from the very late Lacan, yet, from the angle she brings, it is the structure of the Lacanian subject itself that is deconstructed to a certain extent, and another kind of feminine dimension appears, with its hybrid and floating matrixial gaze.\n\nIn the book \"Ways of Seeing\" (1972), John Berger addressed the subject of female sexual objectification in the arts, noting that \"according to usage and conventions, which are at last being questioned, but have by no means been overcome — men act and women appear. Men look at women. Women watch themselves being looked at.\" Such usages and conventions of observation relate the objectifying male gaze to Lacan's theory of the social alienation that results from the psychological split, between seeing one's self and seeing the ideal of one's self. In Italian Renaissance painting, especially in the genre of the nude subject, that perceptual split arises from being both the viewer and the viewed, and from seeing one's self through the gaze of other people.\n\nGriselda Pollock, in her article, \"Modernity and the Spaces of Femininity\" argues that the female gaze can often be visually negated. Pollock claims Robert Doisneau's photo \"Sidelong Glance\" supports this argument. In the photo, a middle-aged bourgeois couple are looking around an art gallery. The spectator view of the picture is from inside the shop but the couple are looking in different places than the view of the spectator. The woman is commenting on an image to her husband, while the husband is being distracted by a nude female painting. The nude female painting is hung within view of the spectator. The woman is looking at another image, but it is out of view of the spectator. The man's gaze has found something more interesting and he has chosen to ignore the woman's comment. According to Pollock, \"She is contrasted iconographically to the naked woman. She is denied the picturing of her desire; what she looks at is blank for the spectator. She is denied being the object of desire because she is represented as a woman who actively looks, rather than returning and confirming the gaze of the masculine spectator\".\n\nLorraine Gamman has suggested that a female gaze can be distinguished from that of a male through its displacing of scopophilic power, not simply the inversion of the male gaze, which creates the possibility of a multiplicity of viewing angles. In fact, for Gamman, \"the female gaze cohabits the space occupied by men, rather than being entirely divorced from it\". Thus, for Gamman, the role of the female gaze is not to appropriate the traditional male form of \"voyeurism;\" its purpose is to disrupt the Phallocentric power of the male gaze by providing for other modes of looking.\n\nJay David Bolter and Richard Grusin suggest that Mulvey's \"male gaze\" coincides with \"the desire for visual immediacy\", the erasure of the medium for uninhibited interaction with the object portrayed, which feminist film theorists treat as \"a male desire that takes an overt sexual meaning when the object of representation, and therefore desire, is a woman\". However, Bolter and Grusin consider their term \"hypermediacy\", the drawing of attention to the medium (or media) and the mediating processes present in a work, to be a manifestation of Gamman's female gaze because it \"is multiple and deviant in its suggestion of multiplicity—a multiplicity of viewing positions and a multiplicity of relationships to the object in view, including sexual objects\". According to Bolter and Grusin, then, hypermediacy, much like the female gaze, works to disrupt the myopic and monolithic male gaze by offering more angles of viewing.\n\nAt the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival, Jill Soloway, in her keynote address, tried to define the \"female gaze\" in film-making (available on YouTube).\n\nThe Indian photographer Farhat Basir Khan attributes the female gaze to anything that's been photographed by a woman which according to Khan is actually breaking the stereotypical view created by \"male-constructed\" photographs that have shown women in a certain light throughout the history of visual arts. The idea of female gaze was central to the exhibition curated by Khan titled 'Feminography' at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts in January 2017.\n\nbell hooks, in her essay titled \"The Oppositional Gaze: Black Female Spectatorship\", argues that Black women are placed outside of the \"pleasure in looking\" as an imaginary subject to the male gaze. In reading Mulvey's essay \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\", hooks states,\"...from a standpoint that acknowledges race, one sees clearly why black women spectators not duped by mainstream cinema would develop an oppositional gaze\". In relation Lacan's mirror stage, during which a child develops self recognition and thus, the ideal ego, hooks takes up the oppositional gaze as a form of looking back, in search of the Black female body within the idealization of cinematic white womanhood.\n\nThe absence of racial relations in the context of feminist theory around the \"totalizing category [of] women\" engages in a process of denial which refutes the reality that many feminist film critics structure their discourse around white women. As a working-class Black woman interviewed by hooks replied, \"to see black women in the position white women have occupied in film forever...\", is to see a 'transfer' without 'transformation'. The oppositional gaze, therefore, encompasses resistance as well as an understanding and awareness of the politics of race and racism via cinematic whiteness inclusive of the male gaze.\n\n"}
{"id": "917386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=917386", "title": "Mariinsky Theatre", "text": "Mariinsky Theatre\n\nThe Mariinsky Theatre (, Mariinskiy Teatr, also spelled Maryinsky or Mariyinsky) is a historic theatre of opera and ballet in Saint Petersburg, Russia. Opened in 1860, it became the preeminent music theatre of late 19th-century Russia, where many of the stage masterpieces of Tchaikovsky, Mussorgsky, and Rimsky-Korsakov received their premieres. Through most of the Soviet era, it was known as the Kirov Theatre. Today, the Mariinsky Theatre is home to the Mariinsky Ballet, Mariinsky Opera and Mariinsky Orchestra. Since Yuri Temirkanov's retirement in 1988, the conductor Valery Gergiev has served as the theatre's general director.\n\nThe theatre is named after Empress Maria Alexandrovna, wife of Tsar Alexander II. There is a bust of the Empress in the main entrance foyer. The theatre's name has changed throughout its history, reflecting the political climate of the time:\n\n\"Note: The acronym \"GATOB\" (Gosudarstvennïy Akademicheskiy Teatr Operï i Baleta) is often encountered in historical accounts.\"\n\nThe theatre building is commonly called the \"Mariinsky Theatre\". The companies that operate within it have for brand recognition purposes retained the \"Kirov\" name, acquired during the Soviet era to commemorate the assassinated Leningrad Communist Party leader Sergey Kirov (1886–1934).\n\nThe Imperial drama, opera and ballet troupe in Saint Petersburg was established in 1783, at the behest of Catherine the Great, although an Italian ballet troupe had performed at the Russian court since the early 18th century. Originally, the ballet and opera performances were given in the wooden Karl Knipper Theatre on Tsaritsa Meadow, near the present-day Tripartite Bridge (also known as the Little Theatre or the Maly Theatre). The Hermitage Theatre, next door to the Winter Palace, was used to host performances for an elite audience of aristocratic guests invited by the Empress.\n\nA permanent theatre building for the new company of opera and ballet artists was designed by Antonio Rinaldi and opened in 1783. Known as the Imperial Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre the structure was situated on Carousel Square, which was renamed Theatre Square in honour of the building. Both names \"Kamenny\" (Russian word for \"stone\") and \"Bolshoi\" (Russian word for \"big\") were coined to distinguish it from the wooden Little Theatre. In 1836, the Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre was renovated to a design by Albert Cavos (son of Catterino Cavos, an opera composer), and served as the principal theatre of the Imperial Ballet and opera.\n\nOn 29 January 1849, the Equestrian circus (Конный цирк) opened on Theatre Square. This was also the work of the architect Cavos. The building was designed to double as a theatre. It was a wooden structure in the then-fashionable neo-Byzantine style. Ten years later, when this circus burnt down, Albert Cavos rebuilt it as an opera and ballet house with the largest stage in the world. With a seating capacity of 1,625 and a U-shaped Italian-style auditorium, the theatre opened on 2 October 1860, with a performance of \"A Life for the Tsar\". The new theatre was named Mariinsky after its imperial patroness, Empress Maria Alexandrovna.\n\nThe Imperial Mariinsky Theatre and its predecessor, the Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre, hosted the premieres of many of the operas of Mikhail Glinka, Modest Mussorgsky, and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. At the behest of the theatre director Ivan Vsevolozhsky, both the Imperial Ballet (ballet arrived at the Mariinsky theater in 1870) and the Imperial Opera were relocated to the Mariinsky Theatre in 1886, as the Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre was considered unsafe. It was there that the renowned choreographer Marius Petipa presented many of his masterpieces, including such staples of the ballet repertory as \"The Sleeping Beauty\" in 1890, \"The Nutcracker\" in 1892, \"Raymonda\" in 1898, and the definitive revival of \"Swan Lake\" (with Lev Ivanov) in 1895.\n\nWhen the theatre was designated as principal venue of the Imperial Ballet and Opera in 1886, the theatre was extensively renovated. A lavish inauguration celebration was given at the behest of Emperor Alexander III, in which the first original ballet to be produced at the Mariinsky was given Petipa's \"Les Pilules magiques\", to the music of Ludwig Minkus.\n\nOther world premieres given at the house included Mussorgsky's opera \"Boris Godunov\" in 1874, Tchaikovsky's operas \"The Queen of Spades\" in 1890 and \"Iolanta\" in 1892, the revised version of Prokofiev's ballet \"Romeo and Juliet\" in 1940, and Khachaturian's ballet \"Spartacus\" in 1956. Other notable productions included Rimsky-Korsakov's opera \"The Golden Cockerel\" in 1909 and Prokofiev's ballet \"Cinderella\" in 1946 (with Natalya Dudinskaya).\n\nThe imperial and Soviet theater was the home of numerous great impresarios, conductors, and musicians.\n\nConductors: Mikhail Zhukov (1932–35), Israel Chudnovsky and others.\n\nBallet: The ballet school of the Mariinsky Theatre spawned the careers of artists Mathilde Kschessinskaya, Olga Preobrajenskaya, Anna Pavlova, Tamara Karsavina, Vaslav Nijinsky, and George Balanchine, students of the Imperial Ballet School and style, and, under and after the teachings of Agrippina Vaganova, artists Marina Semyonova, Galina Ulanova, Rudolf Nureyev, Natalia Makarova, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Irina Kolpakova, Galina Mezentseva, Altynai Asylmuratova, as well as more recent dancers of renown Ulyana Lopatkina, Diana Vishneva, and Svetlana Zakharova, students of the school as now named, the Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet.\n\nUnder Yuri Temirkanov, Principal Conductor from 1976 to 1988, the Opera Company continued to stage innovative productions of both modern and classic Russian operas. Although functioning separately from the Theatre’s Ballet Company, since 1988 both companies have been under the artistic leadership of Valery Gergiev as Artistic Director of the entire Theatre.\n\nThe Opera Company has entered a new era of artistic excellence and creativity. Since 1993, Gergiev’s impact on opera there has been enormous. Firstly, he reorganized the company’s operations and established links with many of the world's great opera houses, including the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, the Metropolitan Opera, the Opéra Bastille, La Scala, La Fenice, the Israeli Opera, the Washington National Opera and the San Francisco Opera. Today, the Opera Company regularly tours to most of these cities.\n\nGergiev has also been innovative as far as Russian opera is concerned: in 1989, there was an all-Mussorgsky festival featuring the composer’s entire operatic output. Similarly, many of Prokofiev’s operas were presented from the late 1990s. Operas by non-Russian composers began to be performed in their original languages, which helped the Opera Company to incorporate world trends. The annual international \"Stars of the White Nights Festival\" in Saint Petersburg, started by Gergiev in 1993, has also put the Mariinsky on the world’s cultural map. That year, as a salute to the imperial origins of the Mariinsky, \nVerdi's \"La forza del destino\", which received its premiere in Saint Petersburg in 1862, was produced with its original sets, costumes and scenery. Since then, it has become a characteristic of the \"White Nights Festival\" to present the premieres from the company’s upcoming season during this magical period, when the hours of darkness practically disappear as the summer solstice approaches.\n\nPresently, the Company lists on its roster 22 sopranos (of whom Anna Netrebko may be the best known); 13 mezzo-sopranos (with Olga Borodina familiar to US and European audiences); 23 tenors; eight baritones; and 14 basses. With Gergiev in charge overall, there is a Head of Stage Administration, a Stage Director, Stage Managers and Assistants, along with 14 accompanists.\n\nThe nearby Mariinsky Theatre Concert Hall, designed by French architect, Xavier Fabre, opened in spring 2007. It has room for 1,100 patrons.\n\nThe Canadian firm Diamond and Schmitt Architects, along with its local partner KB ViPS Architects, designed a new building, then to be named The Second Stage, with 2,000 seats, which would complement the existing Mariinsky. Construction began in 2003, following a different design by French architect Jean Nouvel that was halted at the sub-basement level. The new design team took over in 2009. The completion of Mariinsky II was predicted to result in Saint Petersburg's equivalent of New York City's Lincoln Center.\n\nConstruction was completed in May 2013, at a price of 500 million euros.\n\nIn 2009, the Mariinsky Theatre launched its own record label, managed by the same team that run the LSO Live label in London. All titles are recorded in the new Mariinsky concert hall in St Petersburg and released on Super Audio CD as well as on download.\n\nAmong the titles that have been released are:\n\nRachmaninov: Piano Concerto No 3 / Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini performed by Denis Matsuev, conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\nShchedrin: \"The Enchanted Wanderer\" conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\nShostakovich: \"The Nose\" conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\nShostakovich: Symphonies Nos 1 & 15 conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\nStravinsky: \"Oedipus Rex\" / \"Les Noces\" conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\nTchaikovsky: \"1812\", \"Moscow Cantata\", \"Marche Slave\" conducted by Valery Gergiev Mariinsky Label Website\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46349042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46349042", "title": "Mary Parker (Australian actress)", "text": "Mary Parker (Australian actress)\n\nMary Parker (born 1930) is notable for being the first woman to appear on Melbourne television.\n\nShe was one of three persons to host HSV Channel 7's test broadcasts prior to their official opening night; the other two test broadscasters being Eric Pearce (later Sir Eric Pearce) and Danny Webb. On HSV-7's opening night, 4 November 1956, Parker presented the news with Pearce. Prior to this she had worked in England, where she became a well-known stage, screen and television actress.\"Everybody in England knew Mary Parker\", said her husband, Paul Fitzgerald. \"In England she did several films with Sir Douglas Fairbanks Jr – I've seen her name in lights on Shaftsbury Avenue and then she worked on TV as an announcer. They also brought her out to Australia in 1956 to open the (television coverage of the) Olympic Games – she was the first woman on television in (Melbourne).\"\n\nMary Parker was born on 31 October 1930 in Bitton, Gloucestershire. She grew up in Melbourne and attended Genazzano Convent school, returning to England to pursue her career until invited back to Melbourne by HSV-7 to be their initial female television personality.\n\nShe married noted portrait artist Paul Fitzgerald in 1957. They have seven children: Fabian (born 1959), Marisa (born 1960), Patrick (born 1963; now deceased), Emma (born 1964), Edward (born 1968), Maria (born 1970) and Frances (born 1973). She lives in Melbourne.\n\n\nIn the 1950s it was usual to have a host \"top and tail\" the various programs and Mary Parker had that role in the early days of HSV-7.\n\nShe also presented the following programs:\n\nIn an interview with Parker in May 2015, she explained that she was also one of the first pianists on HSV-7, playing as preludes to a couple of her regular series of interviews. She started an interview with Des Bradley (violinist) by accompanying him in a rendition of Saint Saëns's The Swan. Another interview was with Freddy Cole and started with a piano duet between Cole and Parker; this must have looked interesting to viewers because of the black and white hands on the keyboard.\n\nParker shares the honour of being among the first women on Australian television with Babs McKinnon the first woman on Sydney television when TCN-9 was opened on 16 September 1956. In Melbourne, on HSV-7's opening night, singer Toni Lamond appeared in a variety program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1474783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474783", "title": "Meimoon Ghal'eh", "text": "Meimoon Ghal'eh\n\nMeimoon Ghal'eh (Monkey Castle), also known as Meimoon Ghal'eh Castle, or Mehman Ghal'eh Castle, is one of several castle ruins scattered throughout the Qazvin area, in Iran.\n\nIt sits in the south of the city of Qazvin, where has been always crowded, hence heavily eroded, and is almost 5000 square meters in footage. The remains indicate the castle to have had a large dome in its central section. All ceilings no longer exist. The fortification has a subterranean network of 3 east-west tunnels under the structure connected by a north-south tunnel. The two levels were connected via a helical staircase. The main gates must have been on the northern side, it is believed. Eight towers made of brick surrounded the castle. All evidence indicates this structure to have been a military fortress of some sorts.\n\nNasīr al-Dīn al-Tūsī also spent some time here while residing with the Ismailis in the 13th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "40822485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40822485", "title": "Moira Pottery", "text": "Moira Pottery\n\nMoira pottery works, founded in 1922, was known for its utilitarian stoneware crocks for marmalade and inexpensive pitchers and other kitchen wares, sometimes applied with transfer-printed advertising reproducing quaint turn-of-the-century woodcuts. The company's \"Hillstonia\" ware was intended for forcing bulbs and containing plants.\n\nMoira pottery was often marked with an oval stamp on the unglazed undersides of its production. The pottery works was situated approximately 5 mi (8 km) from Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, although the village of Moira is just over the border in Leicestershire.\n\nThe plant was closed by the National Coal Board and its buildings razed in 1972 under compulsory purchase, because the land it stood on was over a coal reserve. After the open-pit coal seam was exhausted the land was reclaimed and is planted as part of the National Forest.\n"}
{"id": "57911893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57911893", "title": "Perfect Harmony (painting)", "text": "Perfect Harmony (painting)\n\nPerfect Harmony or Perfect Accord (French - \"L'Accord parfait\") is a 1719 painting by Antoine Watteau, now in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. It was the pendant to the same artist's \"The Surprise\".\n\nIt was initially owned by a friend of the artist, Nicolas Hénin, but it and \"Surprise\" were sold separately by his heir around 1756.\n"}
{"id": "952088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952088", "title": "Persian Jewels", "text": "Persian Jewels\n\nIran (Persia) possesses an extraordinary treasure of royal jewelry, including a copious amount of mother-of-pearl from the Persian Gulf. The Iranian crown jewels are among the largest, most dazzling and valuable jewel collection in the world. The jewels are displayed in the vaults of the Central Bank of Iran in Tehran, and are one of the most appealing tourist attractions in Iran. Akik is also exported from Iran to various countries including the Indian subcontinent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11931475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11931475", "title": "Phlyax play", "text": "Phlyax play\n\nA Phlyax play (, also phlyakes), also known as a hilarotragedy, was a burlesque dramatic form that developed in the Greek colonies of Magna Graecia in the 4th century BCE. Its name derives from the Phlyakes or “Gossip Players” in Doric Greek. From the surviving titles of the plays they appear to have been a form of mythological burlesque, which mixed figures from the Greek pantheon with the stock characters and situations of Attic New Comedy.\n\nOnly five authors of the genre are known by name: Rhinthon and Sciras of Taranto, Blaesus of Capri, Sopater of Paphos and Heraklides. The plays themselves survive only as titles and a few fragments. A substantial body of South Italian vases are thought to represent scenes of the phlyakes, giving rise to much speculation on Greek stagecraft and dramatic form.\n\nNossis of Locri provides the closest contemporary explanation of the genre in her epitaph for Rhinthon:\n\nPass by with a loud laugh and a kindly word<br>For me: Rhinthon of Syracuse am I,<br>The Muses’ little nightingale; and yet<br>For tragic farce I plucked an ivy wreath.\nTextual and archaeological evidence give a partial picture of these burlesques of mythology and daily life. The absence of any surviving script has led to conjecture that they were largely improvised. The vase paintings indicate that they were performed on a raised wooden stage with an upper gallery, and that the actors wore grotesque costumes and masks similar to those of Attic Old Comedy. Acrobatics and farcical scenes were major features of the phlyax.\n\nThe phlyakes seems to die out by the late 3rd century, but the Oscan inhabitants of Campania subsequently developed a tradition of farces, parodies, and satires influenced by late Greek models, which became popular in Rome during the 3rd century BC. This genre was known as Atellan farce, Atella being the name of a Campanian town. Atellan farce introduced a set of stock characters such as Maccus and Bucco to Latin comedy; even in antiquity, these were thought to be the ancestors of the characters found in Plautus, and perhaps distantly of those of commedia dell'arte. Although an older view held that Attic comedy was the only source of Roman comedy, it has been argued that Rhinthon in particular influenced Plautus’s \"Amphitruo\".\n\nThe so-called Phlyax vases are a principal source of information on the genre. By 1967, 185 of these vases had been identified. Since depictions of theatre and especially comedy are rare in fabrics other than the South Italian, these have been thought to portray the distinctly local theatre tradition. The vases first appeared at the end of the 5th century BCE, but most are 4th century. They represent grotesque characters, the masks of comedy, and the props of comic performance such as ladders, baskets, and open windows. About a quarter of them depict a low wooden temporary stage, but whether this was used in reality is a point of contention.\n\nSome scholars view the vases as depicting Attic Old Comedy rather than Phlyakes. The Wurzburg Telephus Travestitus vase (bell krater, H5697) was identified in 1980 as a phlyax vase, but Csapo and Taplin independently have argued that it actually represents the \"Thesmophoriazousai\" of Aristophanes.\n\n"}
{"id": "43831935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43831935", "title": "Prince (painting)", "text": "Prince (painting)\n\nOrange Prince (1984) is a painting by American artist Andy Warhol, of Prince Rogers Nelson (1958–2016), the American singer, songwriter, record producer, multi-instrumentalist, actor, and director.\n\n\"Orange Prince\" \"(1984)\" is considered an important late work referencing Warhol's portraits from the early 1960s, of movie stars and celebrity icons, such as Marilyn Monroe, Elizabeth Taylor and Jacqueline Kennedy. Art historian and Warhol expert Thomas E. Crow believes that Warhol's portrait of Prince shows much greater freedom of expression, as in the early portraits. This is especially evident when compared to Warhol's more 'factory-line' style of portraits from the 1970s onwards, which were mainly commissions. \n\nPrince did not commission the Warhol portraits, which stayed in Warhol's private collection until he died. Crow believes Warhol was fascinated by Prince, who was not in Warhol's direct circle. He says that Warhol was drawn to Prince's edgy image, which acted as inspiration for the art work:\"(Warhol's) evident fascination with Prince, known for sexual frankness in his music and an androgynous style in his clothes, make-up, and hairstyle, echoed similar traits among those he famously gathered around himself in the Factory entourage of the 1960s.\"\n\n\"Orange Prince\" uses a photograph as its source image, which depicts Prince in the burgeoning stages of his career in 1981, three years before the painting was created. The original color photograph shows Prince in a full length pose, from which Warhol isolated the head only for the portrait.\n\nThe composition of \"Orange Prince\" makes direct reference to the portraits Warhol produced in the 1960s, as Crow points out in his 2018 analysis of the painting, and is similar in composition to Warhol's Marilyn series where the subject's head 'floats' in day-glo color.\n\nAccording to Crow, the composition is distinct from other late portraits, the majority of which were commissions and followed a commercial formula, such as Warhol's portrait of Michael Jackson which was commissioned and created a few months before \"Orange Prince.\" As Crow says: \"Warhol’s 1984 portrait (of Prince)...harked back to the independently conceived celebrity likenesses of his earlier career (from the 1960s). As Prince had not commissioned any of the paintings, Warhol could experiment with far more variations in background patterns and colors.\"The face of the subject is depicted in a neon orange color, the same as the background. The facial outline, features and hair are in black. Highlights of green and blue are woven onto the screen amongst the black line around the subject's facial features, hair and ears. The overall effect is to make the subject luminesce, with a trade-mark Warhol flatness to the image, due partly to the very little graduation of shading.\n\nPrince and Andy Warhol were personally acquainted, as Warhol's diary entries show.\n\nOn a number of occasions in the early 1980s Prince had appeared in \"Andy Warhol's Interview Magazine\". In the April 1980 edition Prince appears in a full-page photograph by Robert Mapplethorpe.\n\nWarhol attended a number of Prince concerts in the 1980s, including one of the very earliest in New York. On December 9, 1980, Prince played The Ritz in New York as part of his \"Dirty Mind Tour\". The club was only half-full, but as music critic Nik Cohn reported, \"Andy Warhol and his claque showed up, and so did a number of music-biz faces. Before the show, they lounged in poses of practised cool. Then Prince appeared, and cool went up in flames\".\n\nIn the December 1981 edition of Warhol's \"Interview\" magazine Prince appears in a controversial image showing him in the shower, and a crucifix on the wall behind.\n\nIn Fall 1984, Warhol created \"Orange Prince\". Prince had released the \"Purple Rain\" album and movie that year and was well known internationally. \n\nOn August 2, 1986, Warhol was in the front row at Prince's concert at Madison Square Garden. In his diary entry of their meeting, Warhol described sitting down at the concert \"...just as Prince jumps out naked, or almost, and it's the greatest concert I've ever seen there, just so much energy and excitement.\"\n\nAfterwards at the New York dance club, The Palladium, Warhol reported that he was very excited to be invited to an after-party hosted by Prince, and fascinated by him. Warhol described arriving at the party and seeing Prince appear in the near-empty club \"...in a white coat and pink bellbottoms, like a Puerto Rican at a prom, all by himself\". He also stated Prince was a gracious host who remembered the names of the many individuals in Warhol's entourage that night, and how Prince made sure he danced with everyone.\n\nThe same party was also attended by Billy Idol; seeing Prince and Idol together, Warhol observed that \"Hollywood glamour girls\" such as Jean Harlow and Marilyn Monroe had been supplanted by \"glamour boys\" such as Prince and Idol—a development that Warhol found completely fascinating and \"...so weird\".\n\nThat night, Prince agreed to appear on the December 1986 cover of Warhol's Interview magazine, which Warhol described in his diary:\"We asked Prince if he would be our December cover and he said we'd have to talk to his manager and we said that we'd asked the manager and the manager said to ask him, and so they said they'd work it out. We were just shaking, it was so exciting.\"Warhol's portrait of Prince was created in 1984, two years before their post-concert meeting in 1986, and remained in Warhol's own collection until he died in 1987. \n\n\"Orange Prince\" was created using a complex tracing and silkscreening process, using layers of colors of silkscreen ink on top of a hand-painted orange ground of acrylic polymer paint, applied to canvas. The technique was popularised by Warhol, and is synonymous with the artist from the 1960s onwards, when he produced his early portraits of Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley, Elizabeth Taylor and Marlon Brando, and other Hollywood movie stars and celebrities of the time.\n\nThe 1989 MoMA catalogue of Warhol's work, includes a comprehensive description of Warhol's silkscreening technique, provided by the British curator and author Marco Livingstone under the title, “Do It Yourself: Notes on Warhol’s Technique.”A pencil tracing was taken from the full sized [transparent] acetate prepared for the photographic screen. Either by transferring the penciled line by pressing onto the front of the acetate or sheet of paper, or by placing a sheet of carbon paper beneath the tracing and then drawing the line one section at a time, a rough guide was established for each color area, for example, the lips and the eyelids. The colors were then brushed on by hand, often with the use of masking tape to create a clean junction between them, with the eventual imposition of the black screened image also serving to obscure any unevenness in the line. The acetates were examined by Warhol before they were made into screens, so that he could indicate by means of instructions, written and drawn with china-marking crayon, any changes to be made: for example, to increase the tonal contrast by removing areas of half-tone, thereby flattening the image. The position of the image would be established by taping the four corners of the acetate to the canvas and then tearing off the tape along the corner edges of the acetate; the fragments of tape remaining on the canvas would serve as a guide in locating the screen on top. The position of the screen would be confirmed by eye, and it would then be printed.\nA number of important silkscreen works by Andy Warhol use the color orange. Some of the first silkscreen works from the 1960s use orange as the dominant color, and Warhol continued to use orange in his paintings throughout his lifetime. \"Orange Prince\" shares a compositional style to \"Orange Marilyn\", 1962. A number of orange paintings by Warhol are in museum collections around the world: \n\nThe effect of bright colors in Warhol's work is to draw renewed focus to the subject matter. In the \"Death and Disaster\" series of paintings the graphic images Warhol took from tabloid newspaper stories of the time are a stark counterpoint to the candy-color palette. Another example of this is \"Twelve Electric Chairs\" from 1964, which consists of twelve highly contrasting colored images of the electric chair, including \"Orange Little Electric Chair,\" 1964.\n\nIn late 2017, a leading art industry newsletter, Baer Faxt, reported that Warhol’s Orange Marilyn sold in a private transaction for $250 million\n\nIn 2017 Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, confirmed that Prince's favorite color was \"orange\", and not purple, as assumed. Also that Prince often wore all-orange stage outfits, had orange sets for concerts and his favorite item was his custom-built orange Cloud guitar.\n\nArt historian, Thomas Crow, believes Warhol depicts Prince as a \"modern-day icon\" in his painting, referencing religious iconographic paintings: \"[Warhol's portrait of Prince] returned Warhol to the origins of his art-critical credibility, that is, the flattened, emblematic, minimally descriptive manner that had characterized his first, definitive phase as an artist.\"\"Marilyn Diptych\", 1962, is an early example of iconography in Warhol's work, the image repeated many times to emphasise the ubiquity of celebrity and references a form of religious painting in its title.\n\nThe Marilyn \"Flavors\" portraits – thirteen unique paintings of Marilyn Monroe with different color backgrounds – are also amongst the first examples of Warhol's iconographic style, and graphic use of saturated block color, held by art historians to highlight a manufactured celebrity. Art historian Robert Rosenblum was personally close to Warhol and wrote about Warhol's Catholic religious observance, which informed Rosenblum's observation about the 1962 \"Gold Marilyn\" in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art: \"When Warhol took a photographic silkscreen of Marilyn Monroe’s head, set it on gold paint, and let it float high in a timeless, spaceless heaven..., he was creating, in effect, a secular saint for the 1960s that might well command as much earthly awe and veneration as, say, a Byzantine Madonna hovering for eternity on a gold mosaic ground.\"Geralyn Huxley, curator of film and video at the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, believes Warhol's preoccupation with celebrity portraits and the style in which he depicts them, stems from the artist's religious upbringing. As a child Warhol attended a local Catholic church which featured an iconostasis, a screen situated in front of the altar featuring large-scale depictions of the faces of the Saints.\n\nArt historian Jane Daggett Dillenberger, in her book \"The Religious Art of Andy Warhol\", points out that Warhol's portraits of celebrities have a strong affinity with the sacred icons at the St. John Chrysostom Byzantine Catholic Church in Pittsburgh: \"Andy's earliest experience of art was of religious art...for Andy, art and religion were linked.\"In his New York Times review of the 1989 Warhol retrospective exhibition at MoMA, art critic Michael Brenson says that Warhol's portraits, at their best, bring together diametrically opposite values, such as sensual excess and the purity of an icon, as seen in the portrait of Prince:“[Andy Warhol's] flat images, painted in a flat tone, existing in a non-space from which past and future have been banished ... make the present seem absolute and eternal—in other words, transcendent. Part of Warhol’s achievement was to legitimize his love of secular, profane subjects by attaching to them traditional religious values. ... Warhol argues that self-effacement and sensual excess, purity and trash, the moment and eternity can exist together.”\n\n\"Orange Prince\" painting has been reproduced in books, magazines and other media, most notably as the cover of a commemorative magazine published by Condé Nast just after Prince's death in 2016.\n\nThe portrait was featured in both the November 1984 and the April 2016 editions of \"Vanity Fair\", reproduced in color on a full page to illustrate the article entitled \"Purple Fame\", about Prince's rise to fame in the wake of his celebrated 1984 album and movie \"Purple Rain,\" the inspiration for Warhol's portrait.\n\nThe \"Vanity Fair\" article claims that Warhol's portrait of Prince captures the recording artist \"...at the height of his powers\" and is one of the first global pieces written as a critical appreciation of the musician, coinciding with the start of the recording artist's 98-date Purple Rain Tour. \"Purple Rain\" is frequently regarded as Prince's magnum opus; declaring that Prince had \"...finally arrived\", and Warhol's portrait shows Prince as a confident and celebrated musician, now on a world stage and internationally renowned.\n\n\"Orange Prince (1984)\" was reproduced on the front cover of \"The Genius of Prince\", a commemorative magazine published in the wake of the musician's sudden death just months before. The magazine was published as a US edition by Condé Nast, in June 2016, to wide acclaim and distributed internationally.\n\nThe portrait also features in \"Andy Warhol Treasures\", a book published in 2009 by Geralyn Huxley.\n\n\"Andy Warhol: Portraits\" at The Phoenix Art Museum,Arizona.\n\n\"Warhol Live\". A touring exhibition of the artist's work as seen through the lens of music, taken from the collection of the Andy Warhol Museum. It appeared alongside Warhol's unique portraits of musicians, including Elvis Presley, the Velvet Underground, Mick Jagger and the Rolling Stones, Liza Minnelli, Grace Jones, Deborah Harry of Blondie, and Michael Jackson. The exhibition toured North America and Europe.\n\n\"Andy Warhol's Celebrities\", Coskun Fine Art.\n\n\"Orange Prince (1984)\" is currently in the UK, part of a private British collection. It was previously part of the Andy Warhol collection, then via his estate to the Andy Warhol Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "47904655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47904655", "title": "Printing out the Internet", "text": "Printing out the Internet\n\nPrinting out the Internet is a work of art created by poet and uncreative writer\",\" Kenneth Goldsmith, with the help of LABOR and UbuWeb. In May 2013, Goldsmith asked for people to print out pages from the Internet and send it to an art gallery, LABOR in Mexico City, over “Printing out the Internet” Tumblr for an exhibition from 26 July to 30 August 2013. Goldsmith dedicated a 500 square meter space with a six meter tall ceiling to the exhibit, which was filled with ten tons of paper during the exhibit. Aaron Swartz, a programmer and Internet activist, inspired the project in his movement to liberate information, making academic files available in the public domain for free. The exhibit was controversial due to the environmental impact entailed with printing out the Internet and the copyrighted materials included in the exhibit.\n\nIn 2013, Kenneth Goldsmith called for people to send pages printed from the internet to the art gallery, LABOR, located in Mexico City. Ten tons of paper submitted 20,000 contributors filled at 1,100 square meter room, and after the exhibition the paper was recycled. 250,000 pages of JSTOR articles were submitted in \"Printing\" \"out the Internet\" exhibit in honor of Aaron Swartz, an internet activist that pushed to have more information made public on the Internet, specifically information from the legal system. These unpurchased materials were worth $353,229.00, which posed issues of the exhibit's legality. \n\nKenneth Goldsmith is an author, poet, and artist that teaches in the English Department at the State University of New York at Buffalo. Goldsmith was born in 1961 in Freeport, New York. He graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1984 with a BFA in Sculpture. He is the founding editor of UbuWeb and has written a variety of books, including \"Uncreative Writing: Managing Language in the Digital Age\" and \"Against Expression: An Anthology of Conceptual Writing\". Kenneth Goldsmith engages in uncreative writing. One example is his book, \"Traffic\", that composed of descriptions of traffic reports of the Brooklyn Bridge every ten minutes over the course of twenty-four hours. \n\nAaron Swartz was an Internet activist, entrepreneur, and programmer that inspired the project, \"Printing out the Internet\". Swartz used the MIT network and downloaded millions of academic articles from the JSTOR database. Earlier, Swartz had published court documents from PACER that charge a fee for downloading the files. Federal prosecutors mounted a case against Swartz, and he was arrested in January 2011 by the MIT police. JSTOR asked for the case to be dropped in light of Swartz’s apology, but the prosecution refused. In January 2013, Swartz declined a plea bargain for a six-month sentence in jail, opposed to the 35-month sentence and $1 million in fines, and he was found dead in his apartment on January 11, 2013.\n\nA Dutch Web consultant, Maurice de Kunder, calculated that the Internet consists of roughly 4.7 billion pages of searchable Web. Each webpage is approximately 6.5 printed pages. To print the Internet it would take about 305.5 billion pages. This paper equates to 74.6 million copies of the \"Harry Potter\" series, 212.2 million copies of \"War and Peace\", 256.3 million copies of \"Women and Men\", 276.7 million copies of \"Infinite Jest\", or 280.8 million copies of \"Atlas Shrugged\". 20,000 contributors submitted ten tons of paper to the exhibit.\n\nGoldsmith's project, \"Printing out the Internet\", inspired other works of art and a marathon group reading of the entire Internet. On 6 July 2013, Goldsmith held a marathon reading of the work submitted to his exhibit starting at 6 PM. There was a sign-up for half hour time slots for people to read. In July,aA PhD piano composer at the University of York wrote Goldsmith in an email, asking to use text from the \"Printing out the Internet\" Tumblr in a music piece. The composer wanted to use a combination of criticisms about \"Printing out the Internet\" and Goldsmith's responses in the piece.\n\nThere were a number of controversies surrounding the project. One controversy was the environmental issues associated with the resources used to print out the internet. When Goldsmith announced his project, \"Printing out the Internet\", people expressed concern with the potential environmental impact that the project may have. Goldsmith announced that he plans to recycle the paper after the exhibit, but there are environmental impacts that the act of printing of the Internet would have. Logging, manufacturing, and transportation of paper all require energy and produce carbon dioxide emissions. Trees also help to sequester carbon dioxide, acting as carbon sinks, and cutting down trees increases carbon dioxide emissions and decreases the amount of carbon that can be sequestered from the atmosphere. Printing itself uses energy, which also produces carbon emissions. Environmentalists are concerned with the contribution of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, to global warming. Also, there is waste generated from non-paper products, such as plastic and ink waste from ink cartridges.\n\nJustin Swanhart started a petition called, “Please don’t print out the Internet,” asking Goldsmith to not continue with his project in light of the environmental impact that printing out the internet would have. Swanhart collected 475 signatures on the petition. Goldsmith acknowledged the petition on the Tumblr account created for the project and chose to continue the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "30808264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30808264", "title": "Rapid visualization", "text": "Rapid visualization\n\nRapid visualization (also known as rapid vis) is a technique used by graphic artists to create a drawing of a concept in several stages. After the completion of thumbnail drawings, a preferred drawing is selected and rendered in full size, usually in pencil. Then a sheet of paper (layout bond) is put over the drawing and it is redrawn/traced with corrections, additions, and alterations. This process is repeated several times, often with color added at some stage, until the image is perfected to the desire of the artist.\n\nThe purpose of rapid vis is to take an idea from concept to accurate rendering without having to start over from scratch each time an edit or alteration is desired. The completed drawing is usually still considered a rough layout or comprehensive for approval submission (as opposed to finished art for framing or camera-ready art for reproduction).\n"}
{"id": "168273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168273", "title": "Shivta", "text": "Shivta\n\nShivta (, ) is an ancient city in the Negev Desert of Israel located 43 kilometers southwest of Beersheba. Shivta was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in June 2005.\n\nLong considered a classic Nabataean town on the ancient spice route, archaeologists are now considering the possibility that Shivta was a Byzantine agricultural colony and a way station for pilgrims en route to the Saint Catherine's Monastery in the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nRoman ruins from the first century BCE have been unearthed in the southern part of the town, but most of the archaeological findings date to the Byzantine period. Shivta’s water supply was based on surface runoff collected in large reservoirs.\n\nThree Byzantine churches (a main church and two smaller churches), 2 wine-presses, residential areas and administrative buildings have been excavated at Shivta. After the Arab conquest in the 7th century CE, the population dwindled. It was finally abandoned in the 8th or 9th Century CE.\n\nIn 1933-34, American archaeologist Harris D. Colt conducted a dig at Shivta. The house he lived in bears an inscription in ancient Greek that reads: “With good luck. Colt built (this house) with his own money.\"\n\nThe wine presses at Shivta give an insight into the scale of wine production at the time. According to the calculations of archaeologists, the Nabatean/Byzantine village of Shivta produced about two million liters of wine.\n\nAdjacent to the site is a large farm that uses Nabatean agricultural techniques of irrigation, sowing and reaping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10250243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10250243", "title": "The Hurds", "text": "The Hurds\n\n\"The Hurds\" or \"Odds and Ends\" is a German fairy tale collected by the Brothers Grimm, who included it in their collection (\"Grimm's Fairy Tales\") as \"Die Schlickerlinge\".\n\nThe Grimms noted they collected the tale in the Mecklenburg region. It is Aarne-Thompson type 1451, a suitor chooses the thrifty girl.\n\nA lazy girl tore out handfuls of flax when she found a knot while spinning. Her industrious servant gathered them and made a gown. The lazy girl was to marry, but when the servant was gaily dancing in her gown at a party on the eve of the wedding, the bride told her bridegroom carelessly about the origin of that gown: it was made of \"hurds\" or \"odds and ends\" she threw away – and the bridegroom married the servant instead.\n"}
{"id": "57635669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57635669", "title": "The New Radical", "text": "The New Radical\n\nThe New Radical is a 2017 documentary film that premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in the US Documentary Competition. In the film, uncompromising millennial radicals from the United States and the United Kingdom attack the system through dangerous technological means, which evolves into a high-stakes game with world authorities in the midst of a dramatically changing political landscape. The film contains an interview with Julian Assange at the Ecuadoran Embassy in London.\n\nOwen Gleiberman writing for \"Variety\" said, \"The great strength of \"The New Radical\" is that it's not on its subjects' side (or totally against them either). It's the rare documentary that lets you decide.\" While Katie Walsh in the \"Los Angeles Times\" called the film's objectivity \"irresponsible\" and \"problematic,\" chastising the filmmakers for not taking a side.\n"}
{"id": "11406011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11406011", "title": "The Unnamed Zone", "text": "The Unnamed Zone\n\nThe Unnamed Zone () is a 2006 Spanish documentary film by director Carlos Rodríguez about the lives of three young Ukrainian children directly affected by the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.\n\nThe Spanish film crew led by Carlos Rodriguez is following the life stories of three children - Lidia Pidvalna, Anastasia Pavlenko, and Andriy Kovalchuk - whose lives were drastically changed after an explosion at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station on April 26, 1986. Through the documentary, the children and their families \"living perilously close to the exclusion zone around the destroyed station recount their fears, dreams, fantasies, and hopes for the future.\" Each child holds a \"Chernobyl certificate\" which bestows access to government grants and aid and is a gruesome reminder of their existential reality.\n\nIn the words of Nathan Southern, \"through his film, Rodriguez paints a melancholic, enduring portrait of three young lives, forever damaged by falling into the path of a cataclysmic disaster that both preceded them and overtook them.\"\n\nRodriguez own take on the synopsis for his documentary is revealing: \"after our experiences in... Ukraine, we believe that a nuclear disaster has consequences that are far more terrible and complex than its purely medical effects, as they pervade every single aspect of life in the area for several generations.\n"}
{"id": "4200974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200974", "title": "Venezuelan literature", "text": "Venezuelan literature\n\nVenezuelan literature can be traced to pre-Hispanic times with the myths and oral literature that formed the cosmogonic view of the world that indigenous people had. Some of these stories are still known in Venezuela. Like many Latin American countries, the Spanish conquerors have had the greatest effect on both the culture and the literature. The first written documents by the Spanish colonizers are considered to be the origin of Venezuela's written literature. This has included chronicles, letters, acts, etc. \n\nVenezuela's first major writer was Andrés Bello. Venezuelan literature developed in the 19th century with the formation of Venezuela as a nation state and the political conflicts of the time between conservatives and liberals. Notable works include \"Venezuela Heroica\" (1881), by Eduardo Blanco, on the Venezuelan War of Independence.\n\nIn the 20th century, with the modernization and urbanization of Venezuela thanks to the economic boom provided by the petroleum, some of its finest writers were: Teresa de la Parra, Rómulo Gallegos, Arturo Uslar Pietri, Salvador Garmendia. Gallegos' \"Doña Bárbara\" (1929) was described in 1974 as \"possibly the most widely known Latin American novel\". The National Prize for Literature, awarded annually, was established in 1948, with Uslar Pietri the only writer to win twice in the first five decades.\n\nRafael Cadenas and Eugenio Montejo are among the best known poets of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35647552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35647552", "title": "Western Thousand Buddha Caves", "text": "Western Thousand Buddha Caves\n\nThe Western Thousand Buddha Caves () is a Buddhist cave temple site in Dunhuang, Gansu Province, China. The site is located approximately 35 km southwest of the urban centre and about the same distance from the Yangguan Pass; the area served as a staging post for travellers on the Silk Road. It is the western counterpart of the Mogao Caves, also known as the \"Caves of the Thousand Buddhas\" after the founding monk Yuezun's vision in 366 of \"golden radiance in the form of a thousand Buddhas\". The caves were excavated from the cliff that runs along the north bank of the Dang River. A number have been lost to floods and collapse; some forty are still extant. Twenty-two decorated caves house 34 polychrome statues and 800 m of wall paintings, dating from the Northern Wei to the late-Yuan and early-Ming Dynasties (sixth to fourteenth centuries). The site was included within the 1961 designation of the Mogao Caves as a Major National Historical and Cultural Site.\n\nA manuscript from the Library Cave, dating to the Five Dynasties and now at the Bibliothèque nationale in Paris, documents the early history of the site (P 5034): according to the \"Domain Record of Shazhou Dudu Prefecture – Shouchang County\", \"60 \"li\" east of the county is a very old inscription that says 'Han Dynasty… made a small Buddha niche; the common people gradually built more'\". Since Shouchang County, modern Nanhu Village, is the location of the Yangguan Pass along the Hexi Corridor, it is understood that this is a reference to the origins of the Western Thousand Buddha Caves.\n\nThe decorated caves are in three main sections: Caves 1–19 at the west end of the cliff, approximately one kilometre from the modern reservoir; Cave 20 in the middle of the site, near the second floodgate; and Caves 21 and 22 at the eastern end of the cliff. Most of the sculptures were restored in a different style during the Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China. The caves at the western end of the site have had aluminium doors and glass partitions installed more recently with the intention of mitigating the environmental causes of deterioration. Some of the paintings at the far east end of the site, distant from the custodians' lodgings, have been detached and remounted in a cave at Mogao. The ruined state of the main Buddha image in Northern Wei Cave 7 enables the construction techniques to be seen: layers of earthen render over an armature of branches and reeds. The loss of upper paint layers also reveals the linear grid used to set out the design of the Thousand Buddhas on the cave walls.\n\nThe twenty-two caves are dated as follows, based largely on the style of the paintings and their accompanying inscriptions:\n\n\n"}
