{"id": "419553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419553", "title": "2004 in politics", "text": "2004 in politics\n\nYears in politics: 2002-2003-2004-2005-2006 - list of years in politics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22315801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315801", "title": "April 2009 Moldovan parliamentary election protests", "text": "April 2009 Moldovan parliamentary election protests\n\nProtests against the April 2009 Moldovan parliamentary election results, began on 6 April 2009, in major cities of Moldova (including Bălți and the capital, Chișinău) before the final official results were announced. The demonstrators claimed that the elections, which saw the governing Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova (PCRM) win a majority of seats, were fraudulent, and alternatively demanded a recount, a new election, or resignation of the government. Similar demonstrations took place in other major Moldovan cities, including the country's second largest, Bălți, where over 7,000 people protested.\n\nSome of the protesters discussed and organized themselves using Twitter, hence its moniker used by the media, the Twitter Revolution. In Chișinău, where the number of protesters rose above 30,000, the demonstration escalated into a riot on 7 April. Rioters attacked the parliament building and presidential office, breaking windows, setting furniture on fire and stealing property.\n\nThe unrest began as a public protest after the announcement of preliminary election results on 6 April 2009, which showed the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova victorious, winning approximately 50% of the votes. Final results, published on 8 April, showed that the PCRM garnered 49.48% of the vote, gaining 60 parliament seats – one less than the three-fifths required for the party to control the presidential election. The opposition rejected the election results, accusing the authorities of falsification in the course of counting the votes and demanded new elections.\n\nThe PCRM has been in power since 2001. A series of protests have been organized by opposition parties in 2003, when the government attempted to replace the school subject \"History of the Romanians\" with \"History of Moldova\". Students protested for months before the government backed down on its plans.\n\nPetru Negură, a university professor of sociology at the Moldova State University and the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences, France, attributed the origins of the crisis to the ethnic identity problem: some people in Moldova identify themselves as \"Moldovans\", while others as \"Romanians\".\n\nThe Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) International Election Observing Mission declared the elections generally free and fair, although it also reported that the comparison of data on the voting age population provided by the Moldovan Ministry of the Interior with the number of registered voters provided by local executive authorities revealed a discrepancy of some 160,000. A member of the OSCE observation team, Emma Nicholson disagreed with the assessment of the OSCE report on the fairness of the elections.\n\nA number of voters have also reported cases of fraud where deceased and nonattendant persons were registered as having voted.\n\nAccording to Vladimir Socor, a political analyst for the Jamestown Foundation, the elections were evaluated as positive on the whole, with some reservations not affecting the outcome or the overall initial assessment. Exit polls had showed a comfortable win for the Communist Party, with the only uncertainty being the size of the winning margin.\n\nOpposition parties pointed out that the lists of eligible voters included 300,000 more people compared to the previous elections, although the population of Moldova has been shrinking. Due to this, they claimed that around 400,000 fictive voters have been created in the last two months and, therefore, changed the voting result. It was also claimed that the authorities have also printed more than one voting bulletin for certain persons.\n\nThe first demonstrations, organized as a flashmob by a 25-year-old Moldovan journalist Natalia Morar, began in Chişinău on 6 April 2009, with a larger number of demonstrators arriving on the next day, 7 April. The demonstration, numbering over ten thousand, most of them students and young people, gathered in the city center on Ştefan cel Mare boulevard. The protest against the announced election results turned into clashes with the police, who used tear gas and water cannons. However, the police were soon overwhelmed by the number of the protesters. Rioters broke into the nearby parliament building and the office of president. Entering the building through broken windows, demonstrators set parts of the building on fire, using documents and furniture both inside and outside. The building was retaken by the police later in the evening.\n\nThe protesters, some of which carried Romanian flags, chanted pro-Western, pro-Romanian and anti-government slogans such as \"We want Europe\", \"We are Romanians\" and \"Down with Communism\".\n\nTwo teenagers, Ion Galaţchi and Dragoş Musteţea, with the alleged approval of the policemen, replaced the Flags of Moldova at the Presidential and Parliament buildings with a Flag of Romania and a Flag of Europe, claiming that they expected that this would calm the crowd.\n\nThe emergency hospital of Chişinău reported treating over 78 injured police officers and protesters on 8 April, while the Moldovan president stated that 270 people were injured in the riots. Moldovan opposition called on the authorities to carry out new elections and on the demonstrators to cease violence. Moldovan national television had initially reported that a young woman died of carbon monoxide poisoning due to the fires within the parliament building set off by the rioters. However, it was later reported that the woman was saved by a team of medics.\n\nOn the evening of 7 April, a group of protesters organised a National Salvation Committee, consisting of student and civic representatives. Writer Nicolae Dabija, a vice-president of the Committee said that the intended purpose of the Committee is to organise new elections. However, the protests died off as the police intervened during the night to arrest the protesters found in the square.\n\nOn 7 April, Serafim Urechean, leader of the opposition Party Alliance Our Moldova, during a meeting with President Voronin said that the riots were orchestrated by security services. However, former Moldovan President Petru Lucinski believes the violence was the spontaneous result of the actions of leaderless youths frustrated with the waning of Moldovan democracy. He said that there is no need to look further to explain the unrest and the movement \"didn't have any leaders, one part went in one direction, a peaceful one and another part took a violent turn.\"\n\nProtests of solidarity with demonstrators in Chișinău took place in Cimișlia, Bălți, Ungheni and other Moldovan cities. Conversely, in some cities (especially in the autonomous region of Gagauzia) the actions of the protesters were condemned.\n\nThe protests continued on Sunday, 12 April, when around 3,000 protesters gathered in the central square where the mayor of Chişinău, Dorin Chirtoacă, held a speech about how Moldova's youth reject Communism because they \"understand that their future has been stolen\". However, the students were notably absent from the crowd, having been sanctioned for their participation in the previous protests.\n\nOn the night following 7 April, around 1 AM, police forces routed the remaining crowds in the main square and arrested about 200 participants. On the following day, more arrests were issued, with demonstrators beaten and transported away in police cars. Similarly, footage showed demonstrators getting dragged away and beaten by what appears to be plain-clothes police officers. Among the protesters to be hospitalized after being beaten was Andrei Ivanțoc, formerly a political prisoner in Transnistria. An independent MP, Valentina Cuşnir, was near the main street of Chişinău at about midnight on 7 April. She reported that she was abused by a police officer.\n\nAmnesty International accused the Moldovan government of violating human rights through the actions of the police, that it detained indiscriminately hundreds of protesters, including minors, who were subjected to torture and other ill-treatment. The organization issued a memorandum to the Moldovan government about this case.\n\nOn 9 April, the Moldovan Prosecutor General's Office asked Ukraine to extradite Gabriel Stati, a Moldovan businessman whom the Moldovan government accused of being involved in the organization and financing of the civil unrest. Stati was in Ukrainian custody along with another suspect, Aurel Marinescu, for their alleged \"involvement in organizing an attempt to overthrow the Moldovan government.\" On 16 April, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine approved the extradition of Stati and Marinescu.\n\nRomanian journalists from Antena 3, TVR, and newspaper Gândul accused the Moldovan authorities of trying to intimidate them. On 10 April, Moldovan authorities arrested journalist Rodica Mahu (Editor-in-Chief of \"Jurnal de Chişinău\") and Romanian journalist Doru Dendiu, the permanent correspondent of TVR in Moldova, for their alleged involvement in organizing the riots. However, Mahu and Dendiu were released from police questioning later that day, Dediu being told that he must leave Moldova. Another journalist, Natalia Morar, was put under house arrest. Also, the internet access in Chisinau was blocked in reason to limit citizens' access to news sites.\n\nOn 11 April, the Moldovan Ministry of Internal Affairs announced it arrested 295 people in Chişinău for their involvement in the protests.\n\nOn 13 April, Chişinău mayor Dorin Chirtoacă made an appeal to international organizations regarding the arrests in Moldova, claiming that the protesters had been tortured, not given the right to talk to a lawyer and that NGOs were not allowed access to the detention centres. He also claimed that the real number of arrestees was higher than the official figures, as the list compiled by the press of missing protesters reached 800 names.\n\nA United Nations report, based on a visit to one detention center, said that the hundreds of people arrested following the civil unrest were subject to \"cruel, inhuman or degrading\" treatment, being beaten with clubs, water bottles, fists and feet, were denied food and access to legal counsel, and brought before judges in batches of six and collectively charged. The UN representatives were denied access to other detention centers, despite legislation which allows them to conduct such visits. Edwin Berry, the UN human rights adviser for Moldova said that during the visit to the detention center almost everyone he talked to had visible marks that show that they have been beaten.\n\nOn 15 April, President Voronin called for a general amnesty and \"an end to all forms of prosecution against participants in street protests\", however, Chirtoacă announced that no protesters have been freed by 17 April.\n\nMarian Lupu, the speaker of Moldova's parliament, admitted that the arrested protesters were subjected brutality from the police and he announced that the police officers involved would not be punished, being covered by the amnesty announced by President Voronin.\n\nFour deaths occurred at the time of the unrest and have been linked to the events by various sources.\n\nFollowing his arrest, a 23-year-old protester, Valeriu Boboc, died in a Chişinău hospital on 8 April 2009. The official cause was smoke poisoning from the riot, but his family insisted that he was beaten to death by the police, his body being full of contusions. An investigation was opened into the case and a policeman was arrested on charges of Boboc's murder. As of November 2010, the case is still ongoing.\n\nThe body of another protester, Ion Ţâbuleac, with multiple wounds and fractures, was allegedly dumped from a car belonging to the Moldovan Ministry of Internal Affairs.\n\nThe body of a third protester, Eugen Ţapu, was handed to the relatives by the police on 16 April. The official cause of death was given as suicide by hanging, however, the relatives disputed this because they claim that he had no marks on the neck to suggest this. According to Victor Său, the mayor of Ţapu's home village Soroca, there is a link between Eugen Ţapu's death and the protest from 7 April because the police refuse to provide further explanations and the dates of his death and the protest's day are the same. Său stated that police refused to provide any explanations on the reasons behind the death of Eugen Tapu, and that according to the papers he died on 7 April, the day when police begin the mass arrests of young protesters. The police say they found the decomposing body of Eugen Ţapu on 15 April, hanging from his bootlaces in the attic of a building in the capital. \"They killed him, that's for sure, and they must answer for what they've done\" said Eugen's father.\n\nMaxim Canişev (born 1989, Hristoforovca) died on 8 April, but was found with his spinal column broken in Ghidighici Lake only on 18 April.\n\nThe Moldovan government strongly denied any involvement in the deaths. The executive director of Amnesty International Moldova, Evghenii Golosceapov, does not believe the minister's denials. Three of the dead showed signs of violence on their faces and bodies. The causes of their deaths remain unknown as of 2010.\n\nOn 8 October 2009, hundreds of people came to Stephen the Great Monument in Chişinău to mark 6 months from the bloody events. While attending the ceremony, the prime minister Vlad Filat said that the Ministry of the Interior has already started a domestic investigation into the police's actions on 7 April 2009, and especially during subsequent days and weeks.\n\nMoldovan President Vladimir Voronin, in an address on 7 April 2009, described the events in the capital as a coup d'état organised by \"a handful of fascists drunk with anger\" and declared that the Moldovan authorities will defend themselves against the \"leaders of the pogrom\". The President also urged the West to help restore order and resolve the conflict.\n\nFollowing the escalation of the riots and the burning of the parliament building, Voronin said \"we tried to avoid bloodshed, but if yesterday's situation will be repeated, we will respond accordingly\".\n\nLater on 8 April, Voronin made the following statement: \"For the first time, the Moldovan people saw the opposition openly betray their own people and their own country by taking the path of provoking open civil war. The whole country saw that there is no opposition whatsoever in Moldova — neither anti-Communist, nor anti-Voronin. There is only opposition to the state.\" The President also commented on the displaying of Romanian flags: \"What happened yesterday brought indelible shame on our politicians, on the whole of our democracy. The entire Moldovan nation witnessed the greatest humiliation of its own sovereignty and its own democracy when the state standards were ripped from the flagpoles of Parliament and the President's Office and replaced with the flags of Romania.\" In an interview with the Spanish newspaper \"El País\", Voronin claimed the professors and teachers, especially in Chişinău, have a very destructive role as \"continuators of Ion Antonescu\".\n\nOn 10 April 2009, Voronin called on the Constitutional Court of Moldova to authorise a recount of the votes. On 12 April 2009, it decided that there would be a recount. The recount was then set to take place on 15 April 2009. On 14 April, Serafim Urechean announced that the three main opposition parties would boycott the recount, citing fears that the government would use it to increase its majority to the 61 seats required to elect the next president. The recount is scheduled to finish by 16 April 2009 and results will be submitted by 21 April 2009 to the CEC. The result of the election was not changed through the recount, as no serious errors were determined. The opposition maintain that the ballot was rigged, saying that recounting fraudulent ballots could only yield fraudulent results.\n\nTransnistrian president Igor Smirnov accused the Moldovan government of failing to \"protect Transdniestrians from nationalists.\"\n\nThe civil unrest in Moldova led to a diplomatic row with Romania, after President Voronin accused Romania of being the force behind the riots in Chişinău. Romania denied all charges of being involved in the protests.\n\nThe Romanian ambassador in Moldova, Filip Teodorescu was declared persona non grata by the Moldovan government, being required to leave the country within 24 hours. The following day, the Romanian parliament nominated a senior diplomat, Mihnea Constantinescu, as the new ambassador to Moldova, but two weeks later, the Moldovan government rejected him without any explanation, deepening the crisis.\n\nThe Moldovan government instituted visa requirements for Romanian citizens and closed the border between Romania and Moldova on 7 April. Moldovan students studying in Romania and international journalists were not allowed to enter the country. The following day, train connections between Romania and Moldova were cancelled for undefined period, because of \"technical\" issues. Romania announced that it will not reciprocate on the expelling of the ambassador and it will keep the same visa regime, with visas free-of-charge for Moldovan citizens. It also condemned as \"arbitrary and discriminatory\" the new measures brought against Romanian nationals in Moldova and has stated that the visa scheme was \"reckless\" and broke a Moldova-EU pact.\n\nOn a press conference on 22 July 2009, Moldova's state prosecutor, Valeriu Gurbulea, declared that Romania was not involved in the riot.\n\nThe Romanian government changed the regulations which allow foreigners who had ancestors who had Romanian citizenship (including most Moldovans) to gain the Romanian citizenship. The new law allows people with at least a Romanian great-grandparent (instead of just a grandparent as before) to request Romanian citizenship, while it added a maximum term of five months for giving a response to the request.\n\n\nAfter the civil unrest, the climate in Moldova became very polarized. The parliament failed to elect a new president. For this reason, the parliament was dissolved and snap elections were held. The 29 July polls were won by the Communist Party with 44.7% of the vote. That gave the former ruling party 48 MPs, and the remaining 53 seats in the 101-member chamber went to four opposition parties. Opposition parties agreed to create the Alliance for European Integration that pushed the Communist party into opposition. The Communists were in government since 2001.\n\nThe original Moldovan Declaration of Independence approved and signed on 27 August 1991 was burned during the civil unrest, but an identical document was restored in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10059148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10059148", "title": "Backlash (pressure group)", "text": "Backlash (pressure group)\n\nBacklash is an umbrella group formed in 2005 to coordinate opposition to the “Consultation on the possession of extreme pornographic material” issued in the United Kingdom jointly by the Home Office and the Scottish Executive. Its stated belief is that the proposals underlying the consultation represent an unjustified assault on freedom of speech and freedom of expression.\n\n\"See no evil\" was a forum and wiki provided by Backlash as an independent platform for the discussion of the proposed UK law on the possession of \"extreme pornography\".\n\nThe group receives \"pro bono\" legal advice from the lawyer Myles Jackman.\n\nBacklash consists of Feminists Against Censorship, Unfettered, Ofwatch, The Spanner Trust, the Libertarian Alliance, the Campaign Against Censorship, the Sexual Freedom Coalition, the Society for Individual Freedom, SM Dykes and the International Union of Sex Workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50864964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50864964", "title": "Baligh ibn Yusuf ibn Tayyi", "text": "Baligh ibn Yusuf ibn Tayyi\n\nBaligh ibn Yusuf ibn Tayyi (/ALA-LC: \"Bāligh ibn Yūsuf ibn Ṭayyiʾ\") was the Arab commander (\"muqaddam\") of the \"halqa\" (non-\"mamluk\") regiment of the fortress of al-Karak in the mid-14th century under the Mamluks. He was a key backer of Sultan an-Nasir Ahmad (r. 1342) during the latter's brief reign. However, he ultimately betrayed an-Nasir Ahmad after being recruited by the latter's brother and usurper of the throne, as-Salih Ismail in 1344.\n\nBaligh is rarely mentioned in Mamluk chronicles. His surname \"Tayyi\" indicates that he was a member of the Tayyid tribe of Banu Rabi'ah, though it is not known if he belonged to the Al Fadl or Al Mira branch. While the Banu Rabi'ah was the most dominant tribe in Mamluk Syria, the area around al-Karak was dominated by the Banu Uqba. During the power struggle following the death of Sultan an-Nasir Muhammad (r. 1310–1341), Baligh was one of the main backers of the sultan's al-Karak-based son, an-Nasir Ahmad. The Mamluk historian al-Maqrizi wrote that Baligh was Ahmad's \"most important confidant among the people of al-Karak\", whose Arab inhabitants were a well-spring of support for Ahmad. Ahmad eventually gained the sultanate and moved the Mamluk throne from Cairo to al-Karak. Baligh officially served as the \"muqaddam\" (commander) of the \"halqa\" (non-\"mamluk\") regiment in al-Karak's fortress. The regiment consisted of Bedouin tribesmen and locals from the al-Sharat mountains.\n\nWhile Ahmad ruled from al-Karak, the Mamluks in Egypt had him replaced with his half-brother, as-Salih Ismail. Hoping to be rewarded for his loyalty, Baligh continued to support Ahmad during the numerous Mamluk campaigns against al-Karak. On 30 August 1343, Baligh was wounded in the leg during one of the Mamluk expeditions against Ahmad. However, as Ahmad's \"wealth came to depletion\", Baligh \"began to work upon him\", according to al-Maqrizi. Baligh began communications with Ismail via the Mamluk emirs besieging al-Karak. The latter could not be captured because of the resistance of Baligh's Arab troops throughout the vicinity. Baligh promised Ismail he could arrange the surrender of al-Karak, writing All the people in the fortress of al-Karak are my friends and those in the city are my family and kinsfolk. No one among them contradicts me.\n\nIsmail accepted Baligh's offer, giving him a pardon, after which Baligh escaped al-Karak to meet Ismail in Cairo. He arrived with a coterie of supporters on 21 March 1344, and in return for his defection, was granted an \"iqta\" (fief) with an annual revenue of 450,000 silver dirhams and the title of \"amir tablkhana\". Baligh left Cairo three days later and proceeded to facilitate the surrender of al-Karak and Ahmad to Ismail's troops on 5 July 1344. In August, Baligh and a certain Isa ibn Hasan were arrested on charges of involvement in the murder of a camel merchant in Cairo named Hasan ibn al-Radini. The \"na'ib\" of Cairo sought to punish them by bastinado, but they managed to have the punishment delayed pending further investigation. Afterward, they used their influence with some Mamluk emirs, who successfully lobbied for their release. This was the final time Baligh was mentioned in Mamluk sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "26938829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26938829", "title": "Committee on World Food Security", "text": "Committee on World Food Security\n\nThe Committee on World Food Security (CFS) was established in 1974 as an intergovernmental body to serve as a forum in the United Nations System for review and follow-up of policies concerning world food security including production and physical and economic access to food.\n\nThe committee's tasks are to\n\nThe Bureau is the executive arm of the CFS . It is made up of a Chairperson and twelve member countries. The Advisory group is made up of representatives from the 5 different categories of CFS Participants. These are:\n\n1 UN agencies and other UN bodies;\n2 Civil society and non-governmental organizations particularly organizations representing smallholder family farmers, fisherfolks, herders, landless, urban poor, agricultural and food workers, women, youth, consumers and indigenous people;\n3 International agricultural research institutions;\n4 International and regional financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, regional development banks and the World Trade Organization;\n5 Private sector associations and philanthropic foundations.\n\nThe Plenary session is held annually and is the central body for decision-taking, debate, coordination, lesson-learning and convergence by all stakeholders at a global level on food security issues.\n\nThe High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition (HLPE) was established in 2010 as the science-policy interface of the UN Committee on World Food Security (CFS). The HLPE aims to improve the robustness of policy making by providing independent, evidence-based analysis and advice at the request of CFS. \n\nThe HLPE has two components. The first is a steering committee made up of internationally recognized experts in a variety of food security and nutrition-related fields. The second is a roster of experts which is used to build teams that act on a project -specific basis to analyze and report on issues related to food security and nutrition.\n\nThe goal of the HLPE is to ensure the regular inclusion of advice based on scientific evidence and knowledge. As directed by the CFS Plenary and Bureau, the HLPE will assess and analyze the current state of food security and nutrition and its underlying causes. It will also provide scientific and knowledge-based analysis and advice on policy-relevant issues and identify emerging trends. It will also help prioritize future actions and focus attention on key focal areas.\n\nUntil today (2013) the HLPE has published 6 reports:\n\nThe CFS has a permanent Secretariat located in Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) headquarters in Rome, Italy which includes members from the World Food Programme (WFP) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Its task is to support the Plenary, the Bureau and Advisory Group and the HLPE in their work.\n\n"}
{"id": "35523094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35523094", "title": "Counterpropaganda", "text": "Counterpropaganda\n\nCounterpropaganda is a form of communication consisting of methods taken and messages relayed to oppose propaganda which seeks to influence action or perspectives among a targeted audience. It is closely connected to propaganda as the two often employ the same methods to broadcast methods to a targeted audience. Counterpropaganda differs from propaganda as it is defensive and responsive to identified propaganda. Additionally, counterpropaganda consists of several elements that further distinguish it from propaganda and ensure its effectiveness in opposing propaganda messages.\n\nCounterpropaganda and propaganda share a symbiotic relationship. Counterpropaganda is employed in situations to counter existing propaganda efforts and thus to understand the former requires a clear understanding of the latter. Practitioners and academics alike have advanced multiple definitions of propaganda. For the sake of clarity this article acknowledges the definition proposed by Garth Jowett and Victoria O'Donnell who define propaganda as \" the deliberate, systematic attempt to shape perceptions, manipulate cognitions, and direct behavior to achieve a response that furthers the desired intent of the propagandist \" In practice propaganda consists of communicating a controlled message to a targeted audience. Similarly, counterpropaganda is used to communicate a message that describes the propaganda as false and instructs the target audience to think or act in a manner that counters the propaganda message. To be effective counterpropaganda must target the same audience as the original propaganda message and often may employ the same methods. However, counterpropaganda is unique on its reliance on factual messages, and its existence as a reactionary effort. Since counterpropaganda intends to counter previously stated propaganda messages it cannot be employed preemptively. Counterpropaganda is, however, based upon some of the same fundamentals of propaganda regarding targeting the salient elements that influences audiences.\n\nThe existing definitions of counterpropaganda differ on their prescription of specified methods and intentions. To illustrate, Herbert Romerstein, former Director of the Office to Counter Soviet Disinformation and Active Measures at the United States Information Agency, defined Counterpropaganda as \"carefully prepared answers to false propaganda with the purpose of refuting the disinformation and undermining the propagandist.\" His definition defines the intentions of the counterpropaganda as first countering propaganda and then undermining the credibility of the propagandists. Romerstein's insights are likely influenced by his professional experience in countering Soviet propaganda which was broadcast toward the U.S. through a variety of means. In comparison, Colonel Garrison whose research focuses on the broadcast media as a method of propaganda and public diplomacy provides a more detailed definition of counterpropaganda. He defined counterpropaganda as the \"actions to discredit an adversary's use of broadcast media to support their national objectives by influencing the opinions, emotions, attitude, or behavior of U.S. and friendly audiences.\" The focus in this definition is the actions to discredit the propagandists' use of broadcast media. The definition defines counterpropaganda by its usage of broadcast media and its intent to undermine the adversaries biased use of the same medium. The differences in the two demonstrate that counterpropaganda is likely to be defined upon its operational usage and the perspective the definer has toward propaganda. Together both definitions clearly illustrate the symbiotic relationship between propaganda and counterpropaganda. The definitions also demonstrate counterpropaganda, like propaganda, is generally described as a targeted form of communication intending to influence a specific audience. Counterpropaganda merely intends to influence a counter action or thought to a previously broadcast propaganda message or messages.\n\nWhile counterpropaganda shares similar traits with propaganda it also consists of unique key elements which define its effective employment.\n\nWhile propaganda messages may not always be truthful, effective counterpropaganda generally only broadcasts the truth. Indeed, counterpropaganda is commonly understood to be the \"truthful, honest opposition\" to an adversary's propaganda. Counterpropaganda communicates truthful messages for moral and practical reasons. During the Cold War, the United States' reputation for broadcasting the truth to refute Soviet propaganda resulted in the U.S. being viewed as a \"truth teller\" where as the Soviet Union had a reputation as a \"lie teller.\" Herbert Romerstein argues that using truth based counterpropaganda resulted in the U.S. being perceived as honest where as the Soviet Union's use of false statements discredited their messages. This Cold War example demonstrates how a false message is discredited when the truth is revealed. In practice a counterpropaganda message that was intentionally or mistakenly false could be revealed to be as biased as the propaganda it sought to oppose. Thus, telling the truth strengthens the effectiveness of counterpropaganda and weakens the propaganda of those revealed to be liars. The use of false messages in counterpropaganda is not effective and fails to adequately refute the propaganda message. Revealing a counterpropaganda message as incorrect or intending to influence via a lie would also harm the broadcaster's reputation and reduce their ability to effectively counter propaganda messages in the future.\n\nCounterpropaganda based upon a false information is not effective in opposing propaganda messages. This premise is best illustrated by the U.S. failed attempts to counter Germany's claims of Soviet Union committed atrocities in Nemmersdorf, Prussia. When Germany forced the Soviet Union out of the city in October 1944 they found twenty-four dead including twelve women, two teenage girls, a baby, six old men and three school children. Several of the women and teenagers were raped. The Nazi propaganda unit, titled Skorpion, launched a leaflet campaign and sent a letter to General Eisenhower to expose the Soviet Union's actions to its American allies. In response America also launched a leaflet campaign and published an article in the March 1, 1945, issue number 49 of its leaflet/newspaper Frontpost titled \"Keine Rache\" (No Revenge) which quoted Soviet denials of the wrongdoing. The false messages in American counterpropaganda failed to effectively oppose German propaganda and failed to change German's perspectives toward the Soviet Union. The counterpropaganda campaign also did little to enforce America's reputation for honesty among German soldiers. When revealed false counterpropaganda damages the reputation of the broadcaster and limits his/her ability to counter propaganda in the future.\n\nCounterpropaganda messages relying on words or concepts not universally understood fail to adequately communicate to the target audience and are ineffective in opposing propaganda. Using understandable words to clearly convey the counterpropaganda message is more likely to counter propaganda messages.\n\nThe converse is equally true. The use of the phrase \"unconditional surrender\" in World War II is a prime example of the importance of clarity. The phrase conveyed scary images to the Germans and the Japanese. Some experts proposed that the phrase would cause greater resistance against the allies because the term was not clearly conveyed to the target audience. The confusion required the U.S. and Britain to explain the message which resulted in reducing its effectiveness.\n\nAndrew Garfield explained that the Coalition messages in Iraq routinely referred to insurgents as \"anti-Iraqis\" which caused ambiguity in the coalition's counterpropaganda messages. The phrase did not adequately coincide with the descriptions various Iraqi communities prescribed insurgents. As a result, the phrase failed to convey the message the Coalition sought to convey. Counterpropaganda messages that require explanations for clarity fail to adequately communicate the intended message and thus fail to oppose propaganda.\n\nCounterpropaganda, like propaganda, requires developing messages understanding of the target audience and the ability to tailor the message appropriately. Effective counterpropaganda relies on communicating messages that \"resonate with the target audiences\" and that are based on culturally relevant narratives. More precisely, developing messages that are effective in a target audience entails identifying the existing sentiments, stereotypes and opinions that influence the audience's perspectives, beliefs and actions. In considering these elements of a society, propaganda and counterpropaganda can influence a group toward a particular perspective or action. Since the objective of counterpropaganda is to influence an audience to reject a propaganda message, it must touch upon the elements of culture, belief and emotion that will result in such action. The elements will vary among audiences and while propaganda and counterpropaganda campaigns can and do utilize existing methods the messages must be tailored specifically to the individual target audience.\n\nCounterpropaganda is a reactive method that must be employed rapidly to effectively contradict a propaganda message. Oliver Carlson explains that the longer propaganda is perceived as the truth the harder it is to contradict even when the target audience is exposed to an opposing true message. A propaganda message that is not contradicted immediately upon its discovery is likely to become the basis the target audience's actions and beliefs.\n\nPsychology provides additional reasons to rapidly employ counterpropaganda. The decision making process is influenced by cognitive biases which shape how a person perceives certain pieces of information and how they will act upon them. The confirmation bias is especially relevant when explaining the necessity of employing counterpropaganda rapidly. Confirmation bias is a tendency for people to favor information confirming their beliefs or hypotheses. If a group based their beliefs or actions upon a propaganda message they were exposed to over or during a long period of time it is difficult to counter the propaganda. The group in such a scenario would be hesitant to assimilate any information from a counterpropaganda message that contradicted the propaganda message. Thus, it is important for counterpropaganda be employed early in a propaganda campaign to prevent the possibility of confirmation bias resulting from propaganda. In \"\", Jacques Ellul suggests another reason to employ counterpropaganda quickly in response to an identified propaganda message. He argues that humankind is more concerned with current events and issues that hold the society's attention. Propaganda shaped upon current events will invoke the greatest amount of community passion and interest. Countering propaganda, requires a quick response to propaganda when it is revealed. Conversely, employing counterpropaganda against a dated propaganda message that regards an equally dated issue that society holds no current interest is likely to be less effective.\n\nCounterpropaganda intends to broadcast messages aimed at refuting and/or countering propaganda messages and thus many of the effective propaganda methods are equally effective in broadcasting counterpropaganda. However, counterpropaganda utilizes a few unique techniques that are effective in attacking propaganda's credibility and ability to influence a target audience.\n\nEffective counterpropaganda begins by fully collecting and analyzing the propaganda to be countered. The metaphor explaining this function is simple; to counter a propaganda message it is necessary to fully understand the message, its target audience and its objectives. Success in countering propaganda requires a \"comprehensive propaganda monitoring and collection effort\" that identifies and catalogues examples of all types of adversarial propaganda. This initial method of counterpropaganda benefits from experts in a range of disciplines to include intelligence psychological operations, social science, cultural anthropologists, etc. who are capable of analyzing the propaganda. Expert analysis can properly dissect the propaganda to provide answers to the following questions necessary to form an effective counterpropaganda effort: \n\nOliver Carlson explains in the Handbook of Propaganda: For the Alert Citizen that the \"Best propaganda is that which does not disclose itself as propaganda.\" There are three types of propaganda which differ depending upon their attribution. White propaganda reveals its origin and generally classified as overt. Covert propaganda includes grey propaganda in which the source is not revealed and black propaganda in which a false origin is claimed (the episode at the 1984 Olympics described below is an example of \"black propaganda\"). In the later two types of propaganda the message's origin is concealed in some way. Often the credibility of a propaganda message depends on masking the true origin of the message to ensure the audience accepts it as an unbiased communication. Often propagandists will create a persona that is \"reliable, trustworthy and credible\" to the target audience which increases the likelihood that the message is believed and influences the audience's actions and perspectives. When counterpropaganda reveals the propaganda's true origin the target audience quickly loses faith in the message as the propagandist was caught lying.\n\nDuring the months leading up to the 1984 Summer Olympics hosted by Los Angeles, the Soviet Union circulated forged Ku Klux Klan leaflets threatening the lives of non-white athletes. The Soviet Union sent the leaflets specifically to the African and Asian Olympic Committees. The U.S. State Department released a public statement accusing the KGB of producing the leaflets and notified each Olympic committee that the leaflets were forgeries. The result was no single Olympic committee refused to attend the games and the Soviets were revealed as the origin of the propaganda.\n\nPropagandists exploit cognitive biases and other elements of decision making to shape their messages to influence the target audience. In this sense they are able to insert a propaganda message into a target audience's logic to make that message more believable and credible. Specifically, propagandists deliberately use errors in arguments to appeal to the emotions of their audience. When a counterpropaganda campaign exposes the target audience's errors in judgment and resolves them the propaganda message loses strength. This counterpropaganda method works similarly as reveal the true origin of a propaganda message as it exposes the broadcaster as a liar which reduces its credibility. Furthermore, when made aware of logical fallacies in its reasoning, the target audience will soon reject any message that was based on this faulty reasoning. \nA competing perspective suggests that propaganda is based upon emotional reactions not cognitive reasoning. Carlson argues propaganda is developed as much as possible to focus on people's emotions versus their rational. This argument suggests propaganda is minimally based upon reasoning and logic and that exposing a group's logical errors is ineffective in refuting propaganda messages.\nJacques Ellul presents another basis for propaganda which suggests exposing a group's faulty reasoning is not an effective method to oppose propaganda. He argues that the speed at which events occur, become out dated and no longer of interest cause mankind to have little patience for using attention and awareness to closely examine current events. The individual is interested only in the superficial element of particular events, which is one reason propaganda is effective. It is, therefore, difficult to draw an audience's attention to the minutiae necessary to highlight flaws in their reasoning which make a propaganda message effective. Yet, Ellul further elaborates that this counterpropaganda message is critical to instruct a group to defend itself against propaganda as it exposes an audience's vulnerability to propaganda based upon our own mental vulnerabilities.\n\nEffective propaganda is tailored to a particular audience and when it is shared to another group the message is clearly revealed as an influencing message. Some audiences are more sophisticated and techniques that work on comparably less developed nations will be ineffective with the former. When a counterpropaganda campaign shares propaganda intended for a specific audience with another audience the propagandists' true intentions are revealed. The sharing of propaganda messages between audiences also enables the second audience to reveal propaganda messages targeting them. In the 1980s, during the Cold War, the United States shared examples of Soviet disinformation targeting the Third World with European nations. The Europeans were then able to identify Soviet propaganda targeting them. The sharing of propaganda damaged the Soviet Union's reputation in Europe during a time it sought Western approval. Thus, countering propaganda by demonstrating it to be outright lies, or intending to influence reduces its effectiveness across target audiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "40683421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40683421", "title": "Darren Kimura", "text": "Darren Kimura\n\nDarren T. Kimura (born September 10, 1974, Hilo, Hawaii) is an American businessman, inventor, and investor. He is best known as the inventor of Micro Concentrated solar power (CSP) technology otherwise known as MicroCSP.\n\nKimura was born to Japanese American parents in Hilo, Hawaii and graduated from Waiakea High School. He achieved the rank of Eagle Scout as a member in the Boy Scouts of America. He studied Computer Science and Business Management at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa. He later attended Portland State University, studying Electrical Engineering and Stanford University studying Computer Science. During the 2009 flu pandemic, \"Newsweek\" covered Darren’s challenges in finding Tamiflu for his wife Kelly due to hoarding.\n\nKimura began his career as an entrepreneur bringing the sport of paintball to Hawaii while still in high school. When attending the University of Hawaii at Manoa he worked in the Information and Computer Sciences department, where he launched Nalu Communications, an internet service provider. Later he created and expanded Energy Industries Corporation. With the support of Energy Industries he created Energy Laboratories, as an incubator for start-up companies, and Enerdigm Ventures, a venture capital firm to seed and support early to growth stage companies. MicroCSP Technology and Sopogy, Inc. began as a spin-off of at Energy Laboratories and was initially funded by Kimura and Enerdigm Ventures. Kimura and Enerdigm Ventures invested in the creation of LiveAction as a spin-out from Referentia a government contractor.\n\nHe also supported the construction of the world’s first MicroCSP project, called Holaniku at Keahole Point. He served as a director to the State of Hawaii Venture Capital fund. His entrepreneurial accomplishments has led him to be featured on the cover of \"MidWeek\", on the cover of \"Pacific Edge\", in \"Entrepreneur\", and in the 2007 book \"The Greater Good: Life Lessons from Hawaii's Leaders\". He was also a live guest with Al Gore on The Climate Reality Project on \"24 Hours of Reality – The Dirty Weather Report\". He was featured in the Hawaiian Electric Company's clean energy promotion, which was highlighted during the APEC United States 2011.\n\nKimura started Energy Conservation Hawaii in 1994, from the back of his SUV, using his surfboard as his desk. In a few years the company reached $50 million in revenues and began national expansion. Kimura changed the company name to Energy Industries Corporation to appeal to its national markets, and he remains the largest shareholder. The underlying concept for creating Energy Industries Corporation was to help make energy efficiency simple. In his work at Energy Industries Corporation, Kimura provided Energy Star consulting services in such locations as Hawaii, Palau, Guam and Saipan. Energy Industries Corporation was featured in the 2008 \"Wall Street Journal\" article \"Alternative State\", about renewable energy projects created in Hawaii.\n\nThe concept for MicroCSP technologies were created when Kimura attempted to install a conventional Concentrating Solar Power trough in Kona, Hawaii. Realizing that it was uneconomical and not practical to ship, install and operate such large components in remote locations like Hawaii, Kimura worked on reducing the dimensions of the solar collector which led to reconfiguring the technology and incorporating the use of state of the art materials. MicroCSP is used for community-sized power plants (1 MW to 50 MW), for industrial, agricultural and manufacturing 'process heat' applications, and when large amounts of hot water are needed, such as resort swimming pools, water parks, large laundry facilities, sterilization, distillation and other such uses. MIT also studied the use of MicroCSP technology in power generation using the Organic Rankine Cycle. Kimura trademarked the term MicroCSP and later released the term for use in the public domain to help accelerate MicroCSP adoption. His US Patent on the idea () served as the basis for other MicroCSP inventions. Companies producing MicroCSP technologies include Rackam, GlassPoint Solar Abengoa Solar Aora Sun2Power Chromasun SolarLite \nNEP Solar Novatec Solar Industrial Solar Focal Point Energy SunTrough Focused Sun Heat 2 Power and Nanogen and Tamuz Energy.\n\nSopogy, a solar thermal technology supplier, was founded in 2002 at the Honolulu, Hawaii–based clean technology incubator known as Energy Laboratories. The company began its research on concentrating solar thermal energy to produce solar steam and thermal heat for absorption chillers or industrial process heat. The company has also developed applications that incorporate its solar collectors to generate electricity and desalination. Kimura created the company name from taking sections of key words including \"SO\" from Solar, \"PO\" from \"Power\", and \"GY\" from \"Energy and Technology\". The company's OEM and IPP sales teams are located in Honolulu along with its research and development, and in 2006 it expanded its manufacturing, C&I, and oil and gas sales teams in its Silicon Valley facility. Sopogy has installed 200 megawatts in China, and 360 megawatts in Thailand. Kimura and Sopogy, along with First Solar, were featured in the Whole Foods Market documentary \"Thrive\". In 2011 Sopogy was honored with the APEC Business Innovation Award, and was featured on the cover of the \"Los Angeles Times\".\nSopogy completed a Series E preferred financing in October 2012 led by Mitsui & Co. and SunEdison, a U.S. solar company, Sempra Energy, 3M, and others. The company announced that Darren Kimura had stepped down as the chairman, chief executive officer and president in March 2013, and SunEdison installed one of its executives as president of the company. After completing a hand-over period, Darren Kimura left the company in May 2013. Sopogy was acquired by Hitachi Power Systems in 2014.\n\nEnerdigm Ventures invested in LiveAction, an enterprise network management software company founded in 2007 at Referentia Systems, Inc. and Kimura joined the company as Chairman of the Board of Directors, Executive Chairman and later as Chief Executive Officer. The Company is best known for its NetFlow visualization capabilities and Quality of Service monitoring and configuration capabilities. Kimura led LiveAction to achieve a place on the Cisco Solutions Plus Program and completed LiveAction's Series A financing that included participation by Enerdigm Ventures, AITV and Cisco Systems LiveAction expanded its capabilities in scale to achieve an industry leading 1 million flows per second and began expanding as a network visualization platform including capabilities in Software Defined Networking and SD-WAN. Under Kimura, LiveAction launched LiveAgent to extend visibility to the network end point and LiveAction completed a $36 million Series B financing led by Insight Venture Partners, Cisco Systems and AITV in early 2016. In December 2017, Kimura led the acquisition of LivingObjects' Service Provider network monitoring platform and to the creation of the LiveSP business unit at LiveAction. In June 2018, Kimura led the acquisition of Savvius formerly known as WildPackets famous for their OmniPeek protocol analysis software.\n\nKimura received the 2002 SBA Young Entrepreneur of the Year award. \nHe was honored as the 2007 Green Entrepreneur, \nand received the Blue Planet Foundation award in 2009. He also received the Hawaii Venture Capital Association Deal of the Year award in 2012. He was named to the 2010 \"Hawaii Business Magazine\"s \"10 for Today\", along with other Hawaii luminaries such as professional baseball player Shane Victorino, and founder of eBay, Pierre Omidyar, and was named to the \"Pacific Business News\"s \"10 to Watch in 2013\", along with video game developer and video game Tetris distributor Henk Rogers.\n\nKimura is active in community and philanthropic activities with a strong focus on Hawaii. He serves as vice president and director at Blue Planet Foundation, and vice president and director at SEE-IT (Science Engineering Exposition of Innovative Technologies), He is also on the board of directors at PBS Hawaii, is entrepreneur-in-residence at Punahou School, is on the board of directors at Enterprise Honolulu, the Oahu Economic Development Board, and is on the Dean's Council of University of Hawaii at Manoa's College of Engineering. Kimura sponsors the Hawaii Island Science Fair \"Kimura Award for Innovations in Clean Energy\" which was awarded to Felix Peng (2016) of Waiakea High School, Ben Kubo (2017) of Parker School, Cesar Rivera (2017) of St Joseph School of Hilo. Also in 2017, Kimura expanded the Hawaii Island Science Fair award to include the \"Kimura Award for Innovations in Computer Science\" which was awarded to Ara Uhr of Hilo High School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2368771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368771", "title": "Dhofar Liberation Front", "text": "Dhofar Liberation Front\n\nDhofar Liberation Front (DLF) () was a communist front which was established to create a separatist state in Dhofar, the southern province of Oman, which shared a border with South Yemen.\n\nThe DLF was established by communist (Marxist–Leninist) youth in Salalah in 1965. Their main aim was to secure funding for the development of the area and also to end the rule of the Sultan of Muscat and Oman.\n\nThe two leadership characters that would be at the core of the Front's short history were Musallam bin Nufl and Yusuf bin Alawi bin Abdullah.\n\nThey, being supported by South Yemen, fought a 10-year insurgency against the Sultan of Muscat and Oman's Armed Forces. The sultanate army supported by Iran and UK have managed to remove the DLF and push its forces towards the border of Yemen and the mountains in 1976. The front still exists as a political group operating from London, United Kingdom \n"}
{"id": "18197718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18197718", "title": "Earthquake Early Warning (Japan)", "text": "Earthquake Early Warning (Japan)\n\nIn Japan, an is a warning issued when an earthquake is detected. The warnings are primarily issued by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA), with guidance on how to react to them.\n\nThe JMA has two EEW systems: one for the general public and another for the National Meteorological and Hydrological Services. When a P-wave is detected from two (or more) of the 4,235 seismometers installed throughout Japan, the JMA analyzes and predicts the approximate location of the earthquake's epicenter. This allows the JMA to notify people in affected prefectures by TV and radio if a strong earthquake is expected.\n\nAn Earthquake Early Warning is issued to warn the general public when an earthquake of 5 or higher on the Japan seismic scale is expected. An EEW forecast (緊急地震速報(予報)) is issued to the National Meteorological and Hydrological Services when an earthquake of 3 or higher on the Japan seismic scale (or 3.5 or higher on the Richter magnitude scale) is expected, or when the amplitude of P- or S-waves measures more than 100 gals.\n\nThe system was developed to minimize earthquake damage and enable people to take shelter or evacuate dangerous areas before the arrival of its strong surface waves. It is used by railways to slow trains and by factories to halt assembly lines before the earthquake hits.\n\nThe effectiveness of the warning depends on the position of the receiver. After receiving a warning, a person has from a few seconds to a minute or more to take action. Areas near an epicenter may experience strong tremors before a warning is issued.\n\nAfter the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the EEW system and Japan's tsunami warning system were considered effective. Although the tsunami killed over 10,000 people, it is believed that the casualties would have been much higher without the EEW system. In April 2011, the Chilean Subsecretary of Telecommunications said that their country hoped to establish a similar early-warning system.\n\nThe JMA announced the Earthquake Early Warning hit (accuracy) rate for the 2011 fiscal year on 31 May 2012. The hit rate is the percentage of warnings issued immediately on the detection of P-waves with a number (0 to 7) within one shindo number of the measured earthquake.\n\nFor the fiscal years 2007–2009, the hit rate was 75 percent or higher (75 percent in 2007, 82 percent in 2008 and 76 percent in 2009). The 2010 hit rate fell to 28 percent, due to the number of aftershocks following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake (which occurred near the end of the 2010 fiscal year); before the earthquake, the hit rate was 72 percent. Measurement techniques have since been refined to ignore minor earthquakes, and the hit rate for FY2011 increased to 56 percent. The JMA intended to increase the hit rate to over 85 percent by FY2015.\n\nAlthough EEW accuracy has been increasing, the following erroneous alarms have been issued:\n\nTechnical improvements are being made to increase the hit rate, including the Integrated Particle Filter (IPF) and Propagation of Local Undamped Motion (PLUM) methods. The IPF method, introduced on December 14, 2016, obtains seismic source elements with a particle filter. The PLUM method, introduced on March 22, 2018, predicting the seismic intensity directly from observed intensity without estimating the hypocenter and scale. Accurate seismic-intensity forecasts can be made for large earthquakes or those whose hypocenter is unknown.\n\nOn NHK television channels and other Japanese TV broadcasters (ISDB, including 1seg), an alert is a message window on the screen with the earthquake epicenter and areas affected by strong tremors. Two sets of chimes sound, followed by a voice announcement in Japanese: In addition to NHK, the announcement is used by Fuji TV, TV Asahi and Tokyo MX. Nippon TV and TBS shorten it to \"Kinkyū Jishin Sokuhō desu\" (\"This is an Earthquake Early Warning\"). TV Tokyo sounds a set of chimes, without a voice announcement.\n\nThe alerts also inform viewers of possible landslides or a tsunami caused by the quake in the affected area. If tsunami warnings are issued, the system utilizes 1seg to automatically turn on (and tune to NHK) all radios and televisions with 1seg technology in at-risk areas. In addition to Japanese, the warnings are broadcast in English, Mandarin, Korean and Portuguese.\n\nJapan's three major mobile phone carriers—NTT docomo, au (KDDI and Okinawa Cellular) and SoftBank Mobile—have developed Cell Broadcast systems to send multiple users an SMS of the EEW.\n\nIt is mandatory for 3G cell phones sold after 2007 to receive this service, although foreign manufacturers such as Nokia, Apple, HTC, LG and Samsung are exempt. In August 2011, Apple announced that its iOS 5 iPhone platform would support EEW notification.\n\nEEW is enabled by default on all models of the released after November 26, 2007, and on some FOMA high-speed models in the released after February 2008.\n\nThe system was enabled on all models in early 2008, including , , , , , and a few smartphone models, such as (TSI01). KDDI and Okinawa Cellular began free EEW broadcasts via au's SMS, , on March 25, 2008.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, SoftBank announced development of an EEW broadcast system similar to NTT docomo's and au's. Deployment of the system was originally planned for FY2008, but was postponed for two years. On August 25, 2010, EEW service began on Shikoku, in the Kansai, Tōkai, Tōhoku (seven prefectures) and Chūgoku regions, and portions of the Kantō region. The EEW broadcast network has covered the whole country since December 7, 2010. The was the only model supporting EEW in March 2011, although more models had been expected to support the system after summer 2010.\n\nRC Solution Company developed Yurekuru Call for iPhone, a free iPhone application to receive EEW which is distributed on the Apple App Store; the application is also available for Android. Notification of an EEW might be delayed or blocked if communication lines are congested. The Japanese version of iOS 5 for iPhone has built-in EEW functionality.\n\nA specific, common chime tone from FM stations is automatically detected and turns on the radio (if in sleep mode), sounding a loud chime and broadcasting an EEW message before the quake begins by detecting S-waves. When the S-wave has been analyzed, detailed information on the earthquake (such as seismic scale and areas under threat) is announced.\n\nThe following radios receive EEWs from radio stations and are free of information or connection fees:\n\nEEW broadcasts can be received in areas without broadband Internet access. Signal quality, speed and service area may vary from station to station.\n\n\nJapanese cable TV stations offer EEWs. (JCN) rents a receiver which notifies the user of the estimated Shindo scale and the time remaining (0 to 5 seconds). Some cable-TV stations also broadcast EEWs on FM community radio stations and provide free equipment to prefecture and municipal facilities.\n\n, a weather-information company, began a paid EEW service () on October 15, 2007. The service requires a computer running Windows 2000 or later with an always-on connection to the Internet. The EEW application can be configured to receive information on earthquakes with a JMA magnitude of 3.5 or higher or with a seismic intensity of 3 or higher. Newer versions of the program allow for the announcement of lower-intensity earthquakes. The program announces the approximate location of the epicenter, the expected JMA seismic intensity and displays a countdown to expected major shaking.\n\n, a disaster-prevention technology company which is part of the Railway Technical Research Institute Group, released an application (EQMessenger) to receive ANET Alert on July 7, 2008. This deciphers and broadcasts EEW information on the epicenter, the estimated seismic intensity at the user's location, and the time remaining before the arrival of the S-wave. When the estimated seismic intensity exceeds the preset level, EQMessenger can sound a warning and display the epicenter, intensity estimation and the arrival of the tremor on a pop-up map.\nA similar, free Windows program, SignalNow Express, was made available by the Strategy Corporation () after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake.\n\nThe Earthquake Early Warning logo used by the Japan Meteorological Agency is a . Many earthquake-preparedness activities in Japan use the catfish as a mascot; in Japanese mythology earthquakes were caused by a giant catfish, or seeing catfish foretold an earthquake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51006684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51006684", "title": "Electoral regions of Mexico", "text": "Electoral regions of Mexico\n\nThe electoral regions of Mexico (\"circunscripciones electorales\") are geographic areas composed of various states used for the election of the 200 proportional representation legislators to the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nEach of the five regions sends 40 deputies, which are selected according to party lists in the regions.\n\nThe electoral regions are divided to ensure a roughly equal distribution of population among the regions and may be modified by the National Electoral Institute. The current distribution has been in use since September 30, 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51777459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51777459", "title": "Ende Gelände 2016", "text": "Ende Gelände 2016\n\nEnde Gelände 2016 was a large civil disobedience protest movement in Germany to limit global warming through fossil fuel phase-out.\n\n3,500–4,000 environmental activists from twelve countries blocked the Welzow-Süd open-pit coal mine and the coal-fired Schwarze Pumpe power station, then owned by Vattenfall (Spremberg), from 13 to 15 May 2016.\n\nOn 15 August 2015, in the first year of Ende Gelände, 1,500 activists blocked the Garzweiler surface mine owned by RWE (Ende Gelände 2015).\n\nEnde Gelände formed in 2015 as a coalition of German environmental groups and \"people from the anti-nuclear and anti-coal movements\".\n\nThe activists of the first Ende Gelände 2015 were hosted by the climate camp \"Rheinlandcamp\". In 2016 the \"Lausitzcamp\" hosted the 3500 to 4000 activists and provided infrastructure and support.\n\nIn German, \"Ende Gelände\" means \"Here and no further\". Ende Gelände 2016 was part of an international wave of actions called \"Break Free from Fossil Fuels\".\n\nIt was followed by Ende Gelände 2017: in the Rhineland open-pit mines on 24-29 August 2017 as well as 3-5 November 2017 on (for the 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference).\n\nDuring the 48 hours of mass action, the coal-fired Schwarze Pumpe power station (described as \"Europe's tenth largest emitter of CO\") was cut to 20 percent of its power for two days.\n\nThe nearly shutting down of the power plant over the weekend of Ende Gelände was seen by activists as a great success. Vattenfall Europe´s chairman of the board said: \"It is an absolute new quality, that a power plant shall be forced to cease its work by violent pressure, which has direct consequences for the German electricity grid. This does not any more only affect Lusatia.\"\n\nThe short term goal of Ende Gelände was to stop the process of Vattenfall selling the mining area. The selling of Lusatia´s coal mining industry was described by Ende Gelände as the biggest single investment in coal power in Europe. Ende Gelände intended to stop the selling process. Instead, Vattenfall should have, according to Ende Gelände, financed a social coal phase out and cover ecological follow up expenditures.\n\nThe mining region was eventually, after renewed debates in the Swedish Parliament as a direct response to Ende Gelände, sold to EPH in October 2016. Vattenfall initially expected to sell for 2 to 3 billion Euro, but finally had to pay EPH 1,7 billion for EPH taking over all (especially ecological) liabilities in the region. Ende Gelände had the motto in 2016 \"we are the investment risk\".\n\nOrganisers describes Ende Gelände 2016 as \"the largest ever global civil disobedience against fossil fuels\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2554206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2554206", "title": "Flensburg Government", "text": "Flensburg Government\n\nThe Flensburg Government (), also known as the Flensburg Cabinet (\"Flensburger Kabinett\"), the Dönitz Government (\"Regierung Dönitz\"), or the Schwerin von Krosigk Cabinet (\"Kabinett Schwerin von Krosigk\"), was the short-lived government of Nazi Germany during a period of three weeks around the end of World War II in Europe. The government was formed following the suicide of Adolf Hitler on 30 April 1945 during the Battle of Berlin. It was headed by Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz as the Reichspräsident and Lutz Graf Schwerin von Krosigk as the Leading Minister.\n\nThe administration was referred to as the \"Flensburg Government\" because Dönitz's headquarters had been relocated in the port of Flensburg in northern Germany on 3 May 1945. Due to the rapid Allied advance, its nominal jurisdiction at the outset was limited to a narrow wedge of territory running from the Austrian border through Berlin to the Danish border; which, since 25 April 1945, had been cut in two by the American advance to join with Soviet forces at Torgau on the Elbe. Following the capitulation of all German armed forces on 8 May, the Flensburg government lost all direct territorial, military or civil jurisdiction, and all diplomatic relations were withdrawn. The western Allies allowed the Flensburg government to continue to meet and conduct what business it could until 23 May, when they dissolved the government and arrested its members as prisoners of war.\n\nOnce it became apparent that Hitler intended to stay and die in the besieged city of Berlin, effective overall command of German armed forces was exercised through the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (German High Command), which had relocated to Rheinsburg. Anticipating that German-held territory would be split, separate military and civilian commands had provisionally been established on 15 April; under Field Marshal Albert Kesselring at Pullach for forces in the south and west, and under Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz at Plön for forces in the north and east; but then Hitler had stalled on transferring executive military authority to them.\n\nOn 27 April Wilhelm Keitel and Alfred Jodl, of the Army High Command, met at Rheinsburg with Karl Dönitz and Heinrich Himmler to discuss the war situation now that the fall of Berlin could not be averted. Himmler took the chair as the acknowledged deputy Führer; and, since the disgrace and dismissal of Hermann Göring, Hitler's expected successor. As they were leaving Rheinsberg on 28 April, Himmler asked Dönitz to confirm that he would be willing to serve in a successor government that Himmler might form. That day however, the British and Americans published Himmler's secret proposals for a separate peace in the West (which they had rejected). On 29 April Dönitz received a telegram from Martin Bormann announcing Himmler's dismissal from all posts, and ordering his arrest for treason.> Dönitz went to Himmler's headquarters in Lübeck on 30 April to confront him with the accusations, but Himmler denied them as fabricated propaganda. When a further telegram from Bormann that day confirmed both the dismissal and Dönitz's appointment as Hitler's successor, Himmler's position became untenable, and Dönitz summoned him to Plön that night to tell him so. \n\nWith Himmler and Göring standing accused of treasonable negotiation with the enemy, Hitler in his political testament had named Grand Admiral Dönitz his successor as Reich President and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, and designated Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels head of government as Reich Chancellor. Goebbels committed suicide in the Berlin \"Führerbunker\" on 1 May. The same day Dönitz accepted the offices of Supreme Commander and Head of State in separate broadcast addresses to the German armed forces, and German people. Residual ministers of the Hitler cabinet, who had fled from the fall of Berlin to join Dönitz at the Wehrmacht barracks near Plön in Holstein, resigned the next day. Suspecting that Bormann might also have escaped from Berlin and be intending to seize power, Dönitz met with Hitler's former Finance Minister Lutz Graf Schwerin von Krosigk and asked him to constitute a new Reich government.\n\nVon Krosigk's cabinet first met in Eutin, to which he and his ministerial staff had been evacuated, on 2 May. Later on 2 May, and in view of the rapidly advancing British Second Army forces which were approaching Lübeck, Dönitz met with von Krosigk, Paul Wegener, Himmler and Keitel to discuss the urgent necessity of a further relocation. Himmler argued for a move to Prague, then the last major central European capital city in German hands, and closer to advancing American forces with whom he hoped to negotiate personally, but Dönitz refused to sanction any move outside the borders of Germany. Moreover, the political situation of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia was highly unstable. Dönitz decided instead to proceed to the Mürwik naval academy in Flensburg near the Danish border. The cabinet met in the Sportschool of the naval academy; while administrative offices and accommodation for the various ministries were established on the liner , moored in Flensburg harbour. The German High Command, which had moved from Rheinsburg to Neustadt in Holstein two days before, then also relocated to Flensburg, while the SS leadership had been gathering at Flensburg since 28 April.\n\nRetaining some members from the previous Hitler cabinet and Goebbels cabinet, Karl Dönitz's government consisted of the following people:\n\nDönitz avoided including prominent Nazi leaders in his cabinet other than Speer; but included several serving officers in the SS and others who had been closely involved in formulating and prosecuting the genocidal policies of the former regime. Herbert Backe had been the author of the Hunger Plan of 1941, a deliberate strategy for mass elimination by starvation of Soviet prisoners of war and 'surplus' Soviet urban populations. Speer's deputy in the Economics Ministry was Otto Ohlendorf, who had personally directed the murder of hundreds of thousands of Jews and Communists in occupied Soviet territory. Wilhelm Stuckart had been a participant at the Wannsee Conference of January 1942, when the administrative responsibilities for the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Problem\" had been agreed. Otto Ohlendorf had transferred across directly from directing Himmler's office as Reichsführer-SS; and overall, of 350 staff working in the offices of the Flensburg government, 230 had been members of the SS or other security services. Dönitz's cabinet picks were clearly circumscribed by who was available. Otherwise, and in spite of his subsequent claim that his government was 'unpolitical', the most consistent characteristic of those chosen was a virulent opposition to Bolshevism, and a determination to ensure that the revolutionary events in Germany attending the Armistice of 1918 would not be repeated in 1945. As Dönitz did not then intend any surrender to the Soviets or Poles and continued to identify \"Jews and profiteers” as enemies of the German people, he had little compunction over including in his cabinet men with blood on their hands, so long as that blood was Russian, East European or Jewish.\n\nFor the first few days the post of Minister of the Interior was kept vacant. This had been the office of Heinrich Himmler, but Himmler had been condemned as a traitor, dismissed from all functions and ordered to be arrested in Hitler's Last Testament. Dönitz did not want Himmler's name associated with his new government, but nor could he afford to alienate the SS who remained armed and powerful. He tacitly set Hitler's instructions aside and continued to see Himmler on a daily basis without according him any formal appointment. It was only on 6 May 1945, while final negotiations were in prospect for a capitulation to U.S. General Dwight D. Eisenhower in the west, that Dönitz dismissed Himmler from all his posts, and appointed Stuckart in his place.\n\nDönitz had hoped to be able to appoint Field Marshal Erich von Manstein as Commander in Chief of the Army and Chief of the High Command of the Armed Forces (Oberkommando der Wehrmacht), to which the Army High Command (Oberkommando des Heeres) had been subject since 28 April 1945, but he could not be contacted on 2 May, and so Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel was kept in post; and in this capacity Keitel signed the act of surrender for the German High Command in Berlin on 8 May. A further factor favouring the continuation of Keitel as Commander in Chief, was the support for him of Colonel General Alfred Jodl, the Chief of Operations Staff of the \"Wehrmacht\", whose retention Dönitz recognised as essential. Jodl was to represent Dönitz in negotiations with the Allies in Reims, France. Admiral Hans-Georg von Friedeburg was appointed to succeed Dönitz as Commander of the Kriegsmarine, and was promoted by Dönitz to the rank of \"Generaladmiral\" on 1 May. The Air Force had largely been destroyed or grounded due to lack of fuel, so no new appointment was made, Field Marshal Robert Ritter von Greim remaining Commander of the Luftwaffe.\n\nIn spite of its repeated relocations, the Armed Forces High Command continued to function, its organisation and structures having been maintained. But the same was not true of any other arm of government. Starting in March 1945, the staff of the various ministries had been evacuated to resort hotels in the Bavarian and Austrian Alps – chiefly in the region of Berchtesgaden, leaving only the ministers themselves in Berlin. On 13 April, the remaining foreign embassies and the diplomatic corps were evacuated to Bad Gastein. Finally on 20 April all the ministers and their personal staffs had been ordered to make their way southwards; but as by then the roads had been cut and there were insufficient transport aircraft available, several ministers (like von Krosigk) had perforce headed north instead. But consequently the government of Germany was, at the death of Hitler, split over six centres. The Propaganda Ministry, the personal fiefdom of Joseph Goebbels had remained with him in Berlin, as had the Nazi Party Chancellery under Martin Bormann; while the Luftwaffe High Command had relocated to Berchtesgaden, having been until his abrupt dismissal on 23 April the counterpart fiefdom of Göring. Himmler had retained his personal powerbase in the offices of the SS and security apparatus, which had been established in Lübeck in the north and then relocated to Flensburg. Other government ministries and ministers were then variously located at Berchtesgaden and Dönitz's headquarters in Plön. With the Armed Forces High Command also located in the north – although many OKW personnel had gone south – there was, in consequence, no semblance any longer of a German central government, and most of the members of von Krosigk's cabinet lacked any support staff from their nominal ministries.\n\nDönitz's initial priority was to open communication with the commanders of German armies, and to establish with them their acknowledgement of his new authority as sole Supreme Commander of all German armed forces. He also sought their agreement with his overall policy of negotiating successive partial surrenders with the Western Allies, while maintaining the war against Soviet forces in the east. Key to this was sidelining Heinrich Himmler, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Alfred Rosenberg and other former Nazi grandees who had fled to Flensburg, but whose continued participation in government would preclude any negotiation with the western Allies. Dönitz's intentions in this were, if possible, to split the Allies, and to offer German military units as components of a common anti-Bolshevik front. Failing that, he sought to save as many German soldiers as possible from Soviet captivity by ordering units in the east to retreat westwards and surrender to the British, Canadians or Americans, and by redoubling Operation Hannibal, the maritime evacuation of units trapped on the Baltic coast. At Dönitz's urging, Field Marshal Keitel and General Jodl attempted to direct what was left of the Wehrmacht towards these goals. On 2 May, Dönitz obtained pledges of allegiance from the commanders of German armies in Norway, Courland, East Prussia and Bohemia; these pledges were made to him personally as Supreme Commander, and not as Head of State in a forthcoming government.\n\nOtherwise however, Dönitz's policies chiefly demonstrated continuity with the previous regime. The Nazi party was neither banned nor dissolved. Dönitz kept a bust of Hitler in his office; and the uniforms, insignia and protocol of the Third Reich were maintained, initially including even the 'Heil Hitler' greeting. Following a plea from Speer, Dönitz on 2 May rescinded the infamous 'Nero Decree' ordering scorched earth destruction of German infrastructure and industrial plant; but it was not until 6 May that counterpart destruction orders were rescinded for those territories, such as Norway, remaining under German occupation. Moreover, neither summary courts for civil punishment, nor military discipline by summary courts martial were abolished; with military executions for insulting the memory of Hitler being confirmed even after the final capitulation on 8 May.\n\nWhile the presence of SS leaders and their staffs in Flensburg had provided Dönitz with a source of personnel to support his government, otherwise they presented problems. In particular, the SS leadership had access to armed forces that were not under Dönitz's control, and remained firmly loyal to Himmler, whom Dönitz had surmised was personally unacceptable now both to the Western Allies and to the Wehrmacht. Dönitz handled the issue by stringing Himmler along for as long as he could with vague prospects of a possible function in the government. Once serious negotiations were underway for surrender to Eisenhower, Himmler and the SS apparatus had to be got out of the way. On 5 May 1945 Dönitz informed Himmler of his forthcoming dismissal, promising false papers and identities for him and his leading lieutenants if they removed themselves promptly. Himmler called his fellow SS leaders together for a last time that day, and advised them to 'dive down within the Wehrmacht'. By the next day they had fled.\n\nThis came too late for the concentration camp prisoners within the area who were now within Dönitz's nominal authority, while under the actual control of the SS. These had numbered around 10,000 when Dönitz assumed the Presidency; mainly former inmates of the Neuengamme camp outside Hamburg, which had been shut down in preparation for the surrender of the city to the British. Between 16 and 28 April, the prisoners had been moved eastwards and concealed by the SS in a flotilla of unseaworthy ships anchored in the Bay of Lubeck, where they then remained without food or medical attention. At the time, this action had been protested by Rear Admiral Konrad Englehardt on Dönitz's staff, but when the Flensburg government came into being, Dönitz made no attempt to free the prisoners, and his government avoided any subsequent acknowledgement that they had known they were there. On 3 May 1945, the prison flotilla was sunk by the Royal Air Force in the mistaken belief that the ships were being prepared to evacuate leading SS personnel. Over 7,000 prisoners drowned, mainly on the former liner Cap Arcona.\n\nOn 2 May, while still at Plön, Dönitz was surprised to learn that German forces in Italy had surrendered unconditionally to the Western Allies. The capitulation had been negotiated without Hitler's knowledge or consent, and signed at Caserta on 29 April but did not come into effect for three days. While Hitler had been still alive, Dönitz had followed absolutely his commands to fight on to the last on all fronts. However, he now realized that the Wehrmacht's position in the West was untenable. He believed that surrendering German forces only to the Western Allies could present opportunities to split the British and Americans from the Soviets. Thereon he assumed direction of further German surrender initiatives, exploring opportunities for partial surrender in the West. In the East, however, he continued to order German armies to fight on. On 2 May, he tried unsuccessfully to countermand the decisions of the German commander in Berlin to surrender their forces to the Soviets; and on 3 May, issued orders to the besieged defenders of Courland and Breslau to maintain their resistance.\nOn 3 May Dönitz sent Admiral Hans-Georg von Friedeburg, his successor as naval commander in chief, to the headquarters of British Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery at Lüneburg, with an offer to surrender of German forces in northwest Germany, together with the remaining elements of Army Group Vistula. Montgomery informed Admiral von Friedeburg that he could not accept the surrender of forces fighting on the Eastern Front; and that consequently Army Group Vistula would have to surrender to the Soviets although British forces would accept the surrender of any German soldiers fleeing westwards. He proposed instead, following discussions between Eisenhower and the British government, that he would accept the surrender of all German military forces in Northwestern Germany, Schleswig-Holstein, the Netherlands and Denmark, including naval forces and warships in those areas. Von Friedeburg asked for 48 hours to consider this; Montgomery allowed him 24. The proposed inclusion of Denmark, and the German warships operating there, initially alarmed Dönitz, who wished at all costs to maintain Operation Hannibal, evacuating German troops across the Baltic to Danish ports; but on consideration, he reckoned he might secretly evade the obligation to surrender these ships if they were at sea on the date the surrender came into effect. Furthermore, as it was unlikely that Montgomery would promptly be able to deploy British forces to the Danish islands under German occupation, especially Bornholm in the central Baltic, there was every possibility that the evacuation proceeding there could continue in total disregard of the agreed surrender terms. Consequently, authorized by Dönitz, von Friedeburg returned on 4 May and signed an instrument of surrender for all German troops and ships in the Netherlands, Denmark and Northwestern Germany. This was accepted by Montgomery on behalf of Eisenhower. This 4 May surrender would become effective at 8:00 am on 5 May; so Dönitz ordered all ships involved in Operation Hannibal to undertake a covert final evacuation voyage, while also unilaterally ordering all U-boat actions to cease. One crew in the evacuation fleet refused to set sail; so Dönitz ordered the ringleaders to be arrested for mutiny, tried by summary court martial, and shot.\n\nAlso, on 5 May 1945, all German forces in Bavaria and South West Germany signed an act of surrender to the Americans at Haar, outside Munich; coming into effect on 6 May. Montgomery, always seeking to boost his own public standing at the expense of other Allied commanders, had arranged extensive media coverage of the 4 May signing, but Dönitz and von Krosigk realised that, although he had supplied von Friedeburg with a prepared German text of the surrender documents, Montgomery had failed to issue this to the press. They consequently broadcast their own, doctored, German version; which differed significantly from that signed; specifically in that warships in the Baltic were not included nor was the territory in Schleswig around Flensburg itself; and especially, the surrender was described as a 'truce', not a capitulation. As was Dönitz's intention, this broadcast exacerbated Stalin's suspicions of the partial capitulations, especially as the greater parts of the 3rd Panzer Army and 21st Army had indeed been able to surrender to the British and Americans, rather than the Soviets. Realising this, Eisenhower determined that no further partial capitulations would be negotiated.\n\nThe capitulations at Luneberg and Haar could do nothing however for the bulk of German forces in Army Group Centre, fighting the Soviets in Bohemia and Saxony. On 4 May Dönitz, together with Karl Frank the Reich Protector of Bohemia and Moravia, conceived of a device whereby Army Group Centre might be able to surrender to General George Patton's American forces, who had been entering the Sudetenland areas of former Czechoslovakia from the west, and approaching Pilsen. Dönitz proposed that Frank should dissolve the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia and resign in favour of a puppet Czech government; who would then declare Prague an open city and invite the Americans in. General Patton's virulent anti-communist views were well known to the German leadership, who reckoned that with Patton in Prague it would become much easier for Army Group Centre to negotiate surrender terms with him while maintaining their resistance to the Soviets, if possible dragging American and Soviet armies into direct confrontation. Frank had hopes that \"we can engineer a disagreement between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union even more serious than that of Poland\". The ploy was proposed as being put into effect on 5 May, but was overtaken by the outbreak of the Prague uprising on that date; and over the succeeding three days, far from surrendering Prague as an open city, SS forces launched a savage response to the insurgents, with brutal reprisals against Czech civilians and widespread destruction in central Prague. Orders to fire-bomb the whole of the Old Town were only averted due to lack of fuel for Luftwaffe bombing units. Alerted to the German machinations through intercepted Ultra signals, Eisenhower ordered Patton to stand still in Pilsen in spite of ever more desperate calls for help from the insurgents. Prague was finally relieved by General Konev's forces on 9 May 1945.\n\nFollowing the success of the two partial surrenders of 4 and 5 May, Dönitz instructed von Friedeburg to go to the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) to negotiate with General Eisenhower terms for a general surrender of all remaining German armies to the Western Allies. Since von Friedeburg's meeting with Montgomery, Eisenhower's opposition to accepting a German surrender that excluded the Soviet Union had been made clear to the German High Command, but Dönitz hoped to change his mind.\n\nOn the next day, 5 May, von Friedeburg arrived at General Eisenhower's headquarters at Reims, France, but learned that Eisenhower was resolute that only a total surrender on all fronts to all the Allies could be discussed. Jodl arrived a day later, ostensibly to sign such a general surrender. Dönitz had instructed him to draw out the negotiations for as long as possible so that German troops and refugees could move west to surrender to the Western Powers. Eisenhower made it clear that the Allies demanded immediate unconditional surrender on all fronts. When it became obvious that the Germans were stalling, Eisenhower threatened to close the western front to all surrendering Germans from the east. Had this happened, German soldiers attempting to cross the line to surrender would be fired on and all subsequent surrenders would have to be to the Soviets. When Dönitz learned this, he radioed Jodl full powers to sign the unconditional German Instrument of Surrender at 1.30 am on the morning of 7 May. Just over an hour later, Jodl signed the documents. The surrender documents included the phrase, \"The German High Command will at once issue orders to all German military, naval and air authorities and to all forces under German control to cease active operations at 2301 hours Central European time on 8 May and to remain in the positions occupied at that time.\" The Western Allies had a unified command structure, and formed a single expeditionary force, the \"Allied Expeditionary Force\". U.S. Army General Walter Bedell Smith (Eisenhower's chief of staff at SHAEF) signed on behalf of the Western Allies, and General Ivan Susloparov (the Soviet liaison officer at SHAEF) signed on behalf of the Soviets. French Major General François Sevez signed as the official witness.\n\nAlthough Eisenhower had sought to keep General Aleksei Antonov of the Soviet High Command fully informed of the progress of the surrender negotiations, no confirmation had been received from the Soviets that the text of the Act of Military Surrender was acceptable to them, or that Susloparov was empowered to sign it. Accordingly, Eisenhower extracted from Jodl an additional signed undertaking that the Chief of the German High Command, and the Commanders in Chief of all three German armed services would attend in person and sign a \"formal ratification\" of the Act of Military Surrender, at a place and date to be specified. Some six hours after the signing, a response came from Antonov that terms of surrender were unacceptable, and that Susloparov could not sign it. Eisenhower promptly agreed, and undertook to attend together with the rest of the SHAEF for the definitive signing in Berlin two days later. Antonov's response also noted that von Friedeburg had been referring matters back to Dönitz over the radio; and that Dönitz, in direct breach of the signed surrender terms, had still not issued orders for German forces in the east to remain in their positions but was instead instructing them to continue their resistance and flee westwards. Antonov stated that, while the internal discussions of the German military in no way obligated the Allied Powers, Jodl's signature could not be accepted as valid if he was doing so as Dönitz's representative since Dönitz himself was clearly acting in bad faith. He proposed that the definitive act of surrender should make it clear that the Commanders in Chief of each of the German armed services were, in signing it, surrendering their forces on the authority of the German High Command - and not as delegated by Dönitz or the purported Flensburg government.\n\nA second, amended, instrument of surrender was accordingly signed at Karlshorst, Berlin on 8 May shortly before midnight. Marshal Zhukov signed for the Soviet High Command, and the British Marshal of the Royal Air Force A.W. Tedder signed on behalf of the Western Allies. (Tedder acted as Eisenhower's representative at the Berlin ceremony, and signed \"on behalf of the Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force\", in his capacity as Deputy Supreme Commander.) French General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny and U.S. Army Air Forces General Carl Spaatz signed as the official witnesses. The Allies had demanded that representatives of the German Army, Navy and Air Force, and the High Command of the Armed Forces, sign the ratification of unconditional surrender, and that they should present full powers authorizing them to do so on behalf of the German High Command. Complying with that demand Dönitz issued a telegraphed communication from his \"Supreme Commander Headquarters\" (\"Der Oberste Befehlshaber Hauptquartier\") granting the necessary full powers, and accordingly the second Act of Military Surrender was signed by Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel as Chief of the High Command of the Armed Forces and as acting Commander in Chief of the Army; by Admiral von Friedeburg as the Commander in Chief of the \"Kriegsmarine\" (navy), by General Hans-Jürgen Stumpff as Deputy Commander in Chief of the \"Luftwaffe\" (air force) as Field Marshal Robert Ritter von Greim, the Air Force Commander, had been injured. At the time specified, World War II in Europe ended. On 9 May, Dönitz issued orders to the German Armed Forces regarding the military surrender.\n\nThe text of the definitive surrender document signed in Berlin differed from that previously signed at Reims, chiefly in that, to the second article, was added the words \"..and to disarm completely, handing over their weapons and equipment to the local allied commanders or officers designated by the Representatives of the Allied Supreme Command\"; which had the effect of requiring German troop facing Soviet forces to hand over their weapons, disband and give themselves up as prisoners. Otherwise neither the Reims nor Berlin surrender instruments provided explicitly for the surrender of the German State, because the draft surrender document prepared by the European Advisory Commission (EAC) was not used. Instead, a simplified, military-only version had been produced by the SHAEF, based largely on the wording of the partial surrender instrument of German forces in Italy that had been signed at Caserta. This definition of the surrender as an act of military capitulation side-stepped any Allied recognition of the German Government, or of Dönitz as Head of State. The question of the civil effects of the unconditional surrender was only settled later, when the Allies decided to dissolve the Flensburg Government (23 May) and issued the Berlin declaration, proclaiming the direct assumption of the supreme governmental authority in Germany by the Allied Powers (5 June). The text of the Berlin Declaration was widely based on the EAC's draft instrument of surrender of Germany. The said draft was reworked into a unilateral declaration with an extended explanatory preamble, that spelled out the Allied position that as a result of its complete defeat Germany had been left without a government, a vacuum that the direct assumption of supreme authority by the Allies would replace.\n\nDuring 1944 and 1945 countries that had been neutral or allies of Germany had been joining the Allied Powers and declaring war on Germany. The German embassies to these countries had been closed down, and their property and archives held in trust by a nominated protecting power (usually Switzerland or Sweden) under the terms of the Geneva Conventions. There were counterpart arrangements for the former embassies of Allied countries in Berlin. The United States Department of State had prepared for the diplomatic consequences of the war ending on the assumption that there would have been an explicit statement of unconditional surrender of the German state in accordance with the terms of a draft surrender text jointly agreed by the Allied powers in 1944. In the final days of April 1945 the State Department had notified the protecting powers, and all other remaining neutral governments (such as Ireland), that following the forthcoming German surrender the continued identity of the German state would rest solely in the four Allied Powers. The Allied Powers would immediately recall all German diplomatic staff, take ownership of all German state property, extinguish all protecting power functions, and require the transfer of all archives and records to one or another of the embassies of the western Allies.\n\nOn 8 May 1945, these arrangements were put into effect in full, notwithstanding that the only German parties to the signed surrender document had been the German High Command. The western Allies maintained that a functioning German state had already ceased to exist, and that consequently the surrender of the German military had effected the complete termination of Nazi Germany. The protecting powers complied fully with the Allied demands: Sweden, Switzerland and Ireland announced the breaking off of relations; consequently the German state ceased as a diplomatic entity on 8 May 1945. Imperial Japan, the only remaining Axis belligerent, had already denounced the German surrender and Flensburg government, and seized the German embassy in Tokyo and seven U-boats. Henceforward, although the Flensburg government had a nominated Minister for Foreign Affairs, it had no access to the diplomatic assets of the former German state and was not accorded diplomatic recognition by any of the former protecting powers or other remaining neutral countries. On 5 May Von Krosigk had dispatched Walter Schellenberg to Sweden as a personal emissary via Folke Bernadotte, hoping to establish diplomatic relations and to expedite a partial surrender of German forces in Norway. This mission was overtaken by the general capitulation of all German forces, and following 8 May all further approaches from the Flensburg Government to Sweden were ignored.\n\nFormer armaments minister Albert Speer suggested that after the surrender the Flensburg government should dissolve itself. Instead Dönitz and his ministers chose to continue in hope of presiding over post-war Germany as a provisional government. Even though they could exercise no direct territorial authority, the cabinet still met daily at 10.00 a.m. Various papers on post-war reconstruction issues were proposed to be prepared, but the Western Allies showed no sign that they might receive them. Otherwise much time was devoted to discussion of how far the symbols, medals and insignia of the Hitler regime should be retained within the Flensburg headquarters.\n\nSome acknowledgement of Nazi war crimes became unavoidable. The departure of the SS leadership from Flensburg opened the way for the Dönitz government to offer its own version of how the murder squads, concentration camps and killing facilities had come into being. Their response was that all these atrocities had been undertaken in secret, and entirely by Himmler and the SS. Dönitz and Jodl issued a joint public statement \"that neither the German Wehrmacht nor the German people had knowledge of these things.\" While this statement was mostly untrue, the consequent myth of the \"good Wehrmacht\" as having been deceived and betrayed by the \"evil SS\" was to achieve wide currency for decades in post-war Germany.\n\nWhile it had been agreed amongst the Allies that the Flensburg government should be accorded no official recognition, Winston Churchill proved reluctant to toe the line. In his speech announcing victory to the British people on 8 May, Churchill specified that the surrender had been authorised by “Grand Admiral Dönitz, the designated Head of the German State”. Equally, following the unconditional surrender, Churchill was instrumental in urging that the Flensburg Government should not immediately be closed down, saying that he could see \"great advantages in letting things slide for a bit\". Churchill's attitude in this was conditioned by his concern that Soviet forces might seek to establish themselves in Denmark; and he saw the temporary continuation of the Flensburg government in territory under British control as establishing a bargaining counter for the British in any negotiations regarding Soviet intentions in the western Baltic, while also facilitating the disbanding of German forces.\n\nConversely, Soviet statements consistently characterised the Flensburg government as an anti-Bolshevist clique. On 20 May, the Soviet government made it clear what it thought about the Flensburg Government. It attacked the Dönitz Administration, calling it the \"Dönitz Gang\" and harshly criticised any idea of allowing it to retain any power. \"Pravda\" said:\n\nGeneral Eisenhower tended rather to agree with the Soviet position (if not the reasoning behind it), suspecting that Dönitz and his cabinet could be a front, while the real German leadership, perhaps including Himmler, Martin Bormann and Hitler himself (whose remains were not then known to have been identified), remained operating behind the scenes, or otherwise plotting for their concealment and escape. With ill-disguised reluctance Eisenhower agreed to defer to the British view for a short period, but issued a clarifying statement that the continuation of the Dönitz government did not constitute his being recognised as a head of state \"but only and temporarily under the instructions of the Allied Commanders to carry out duties concerning the feeding, disarming and medical care of the German Armed Forces.\"\n\nOn 12 May, American Major General Lowell W. Rooks and his British deputy, Brigadier E. J. Foord, arrived in Flensburg and established their quarters in the passenger ship \"Patria\", docked in Flensburg harbour, displacing the administrative offices of the Flensburg government that had been housed there. Their mission was to liaise with the Dönitz \"acting government\" (as it was then referred to by the SHAEF) and to impose the will of the victorious Allied Powers on the German High Command. Although the liaison mission arranged meetings with members of the Flensburg government, these only confirmed that neither Dönitz nor his ministers had been able to establish any degree of civil authority. Churchill withdrew his protection once it became clear that the Soviet High Command would otherwise have to be represented in the liaison mission. On 21 May the SHAEF acceded to Soviet proposals that the Flensburg Government be dissolved and its members arrested as POWs. The dissolution was carried out on 23 May. On that day, a British officer went to Dönitz's headquarters and asked to speak to the members of the government. Dönitz, von Friedeburg and Jodl were then taken aboard the \"Patria\", where Maj. Gen. Rooks informed them of the dissolution of the government; placing them under arrest, and ordering that they be stripped and searched for concealed phials of poison.\n\nThe communication regarding the dissolution of the acting government and the arrest of its members was made in a formal manner, around a table on \"Patria\"s deck: Dönitz, Jodl and Von Friedeburg sat on one side, with Major General Rooks, British Navy Captain Mund and Soviet General Trusov on the other. Brigadier Foord remained standing, next to Maj. Gen. Rooks, and an official interpreter was also present at the proceedings, that were photographed. By the time Dönitz emerged from the ship, the town's main street was filled with British tanks and troops rounding up the Germans. Faced with the prospect of being strip-searched, von Friedeburg committed suicide, while Dönitz, Speer, Jodl and other members of the dissolved Flensburg Government were taken prisoner, under the responsibility of a RAF Regiment task force commanded by Squadron Leader Mark Hobden.\n\nThe prisoners were later handed over to the King's Shropshire Light Infantry. Some Flensburg Government POWs such as Albert Speer were subsequently moved to the British POW camp \"Dustbin\" in Castle Kransberg, while others, including Dönitz, were transferred to the American-led Camp Ashcan. Later, all Camp Ashcan prisoners were moved to Nuremberg to stand trial.\n\nWith the arrest of the Flensburg Government on 23 May 1945, the German High Command also ceased to exist, with no central authority having been kept in place to govern Germany even in a nominal capacity, or to assume responsibility for complying with the demands and instructions of the victorious nations. This power vacuum continued for almost two weeks until 5 June 1945, when the representatives of the Allies signed the \"Declaration Regarding the Defeat of Germany and the Assumption of Supreme Authority by Allied Powers\", also known as the \"Berlin Declaration\".\nThe declaration, issued in Berlin at 18:00 on 5 June 1945, and signed by General Eisenhower on behalf of the United States, Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery on behalf of the United Kingdom, Marshal Georgiy Zhukov on behalf of the Soviet Union, and by General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny on behalf of the French Provisional Government, contained the following statement:\n\nTherefore, from 5 June 1945, Germany did not possess a native government; complete authority and sovereignty being thereafter assumed by the Allied Military Occupation Government. The contention of the Allied Powers that the German state ceased to exist as of 5 June 1945 was then generally accepted, but came subsequently to be challenged in legal and political debate. In any event, the Berlin Declaration maintained the continued existence of Germany as a national territory, implying the continuation of a German nation.\n\nDuring the initial stage of the occupation of Germany, supreme authority was discharged by the Four Powers jointly for all occupation zones via the Allied Control Council, so that this council was the immediate successor of the Dönitz Administration in the Government of Germany.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "1004299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004299", "title": "Garrat Elections", "text": "Garrat Elections\n\nThe Garrat Elections were a carnival of mock elections in Surrey, England in the 18th century. The events were organized around May 20, and would see crowds of tens of thousands travelling from London to take part. The elections were held for at least fifty years before declining after the death of Mayor \"Sir\" Harry Dimsdale in 1796.\n\n\"Grose's Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue,\" originally published in 1785 by Francis Grose, described the Garrat Election as:\n\nIn the 17th century, Garrat was a small hamlet in the parish of Wandsworth. Its residents had met in a conclave and elected a \"commons\" president to exert authority over a small common. They felt that the president should hold the office of \"mayor\" during the parliamentary period between general elections and should be re-elected with the new one. The minor political spectacle aroused some amusement and locals ended up parodying the affair in their mock election.\n\nThe Garrat \"elections\" were chaired at Garratt Lane, and were popular events, with up to 80,000 attendees and sponsorship from local innkeepers and pub keepers who profited from the occasion. People put forth unusual candidates to parody the features of the real election, with the successful candidate being \"the most deformed and stupid\". Candidates would deliver speeches with promises and appeals to sentiment, making pledges such as \"that they will lower the prices of gin, bread, beer, &c.; make old women bishops; and that they will not accept any place in the House\".\n\nThe fame of the Garratt elections was spread by Samuel Foote's 1763 farce, \"The Mayor of Garret\", and from 1768 candidates often came from London and its surroundings rather than just the Wandsworth area.\n\nAfter the death of Mayor Harry Dimsdale towards the end of the 18th century, the festival began to lose its drive and innkeepers no longer agreed to pay the expenses. An 1826 attempt to revive the event failed.\n\nThere is no record of the identity of the candidates before 1747. At that particular year, the \"clerk and recorder\" from a nonexistent town hall issued notification of election between \"Squire Blowmedown\" and \"Squire Gubbins\" (waterman and pubkeeper, respectively, in their day-to-day jobs). Both candidates gave out handbills where they praised their own merits and mocked those of their opponent, imitating political leaflets of the day. Same two candidates attended the next election in 1754, again abusing each other and their supporters in their handbills.\n\nYear 1761 saw the number of candidates rise to nine; in addition to previous two there were \"Sir John Crambo\", \"Kit Noisy\" (waterman), \"Lord Lapstone\" (shoemaker), \"Lord Paxford\", \"Lord Twankum\" (cobbler), \"Lord Wedge\" and \"Beau Silvester\". The candidates elicited flowering elocutions praising their own efforts, promising prosperity if they were to be elected and threatening impending disaster if their opponents should be elected instead. Beau Silvester merited himself with resisting the extra tax on ale and giving orders to increase the number of local pubs.\n\nIn 1763 candidates Lord Twankum, Kit Noisy and Sir John Crambo mocked each other in electoral contest. In 1768 there were seven candidates; Lord Twankum, \"Sir Christopher Dashem\", \"Sir George Comefirst\", \"Sir William Airey\", \"Sir William Bellows\", one \"Batt from the Workhouse\", and \"Sir John Harper\" who ended up being the most popular in the following elections. Lady Twankum promised an opulent party for the entertainment of the populace. 1775 election introduced \"Sir William Blaize\", \"Nephew to the late Lord Twankum\" and \"Sir Christopher Dashem\".\n\nThe 1781 election again had nine candidates; old hands Sir John Harper, Sir Christopher Dashwood, and Sir William Blaize and the new ones \"Sir Buggy Bates\" (chimney-sweep), \"Sir John Gnawpost\", \"Sir Thomas Nameless\", \"Sir William Swallowtail\" (basketmaker), \"Sir Thomas Tubbs\" (waterman) and \"Sir Jeffrey Dunstan\" (wigseller). The latter proved to be the most popular ever in the following elections due to his wit, small size and grotesque and unkempt appearance. Swallowtail had come to the poll in a wicker-chariot of his own design and preceded by hand-bell players. Dashwood was pulled around in a boat. Swallowtail and Buggy Bates were blamed of having government contracts, of baskets and soot, respectively. Sir John Harper and Sir Jeffrey Dunstan were \"returned to parliament\".\n\nIn 1785 elections Sir Jeffrey Dunstan was left without opposition when Sir John Harper died. In 1796 the new candidate \"Sir Harry Dimsdale\" won but he died before the next election.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55012645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55012645", "title": "German-Polish Accord on East Silesia", "text": "German-Polish Accord on East Silesia\n\nThe German-Polish Accord on East Silesia ( \"Deutsch-Polnisches Abkommen über Oberschlesien)\", also known as the \"Geneva Accord\", of 15 May 1922, dealt with the constitutional and legal future of Upper Silesia which partly became Polish territory after a referendum in 1921.\n\nUpper Silesia with its mixed Polish and German population was a province of Prussia and a part of the German Reich prior to World War I. In the Treaty of Versailles, after the defeat of Imperial Germany and Austria-Hungary in World War I, it was decided that the population of Upper Silesia should hold a plebiscite to determine the division of the province between Poland and Germany, with the exception of a area around Hlučín (\"Hultschiner Ländchen\"), which was granted to Czechoslovakia in 1920 despite its a German-speaking majority. The plebiscite, organised by the League of Nations, was held in 1921. In Teschen Silesia there was an interim deal between the Polish and Czechoslovakian local self-government councils about the partition of past lands of the Duchy of Teschen along ethnic lines. However, that deal was not approved by the Czechoslovak government in Prague. Poland held elections in the entire disputed area, and in the Polish–Czechoslovak War Czech troops invaded the lands of Teschen Silesia on 23 January 1919, stopping on 30 January 1919 on the Weichsel River near Skotschau. The planned plebiscite was not organised in the Teschen region but was held in most other parts of Upper Silesia. On 28 July 1920, the Spa Conference divided Teschen Silesia between Poland and Czechoslovakia along the present-day border.\n\nIn 1918 various proposals emerged defining the division of Upper Silesia. At the Paris Peace Conference a commission for Polish affairs was created to prepare proposals for Polish borders. In their first two proposals (of 27 March 1919 and of 7 May 1919) most of the future province was ceded, together with the region of Oppeln, to Poland. Yet that was not accepted by the \"Big Four\", and following David Lloyd George's suggestion, a plebiscite was organized. Before it took place on 20 March 1921, two Silesian Insurrections instigated by Polish inhabitants of the area were organized. After the referendum, in which Poland had 41% of the votes, a plan of division was created that divided Upper Silesia. This led to a new phase of the Silesian Uprisings, the socalled Third Silesian Uprising and the Battle of Annaberg. The result of the 1921 referendum was legally not binding and ignored. A new plan of division was prepared by the ambassadors commission on 20 October 1921, which should enter into effect by 20 June 1922, but it still created a situation in which some rural territories that voted mostly for Poland were granted to Germany and some urban territories with a German majority were granted to Poland.\n\nIn 1921 the Geneva conference for regulating conditions in Upper Silesia took place under the chairmanship of Felix Calonder, then member of the Swiss Federal Council. After the region was divided between Germany and Poland, the German minority population had to be protected by the Accord. The German-Polish Accord on East Silesia is also known as the Geneva Accord of 15 May 1922.\n\nOn 20 June 1922 the division according to the plan of the ambassadors commission became effective. The German Reich had to accept the loss of its coal-bearing land and was left with the economically unimportant West Upper Silesia. The Silesian coal was highly relevant to the German economy during that time. The major part of Silesia remaining in Germany, was reorganised into the two provinces of Upper Silesia and Lower Silesia.\n\nThe Polish Sejm decided that the eastern-most Upper Silesian areas should become an autonomous area within Poland organised as the Silesian Voivodeship and with Silesian Parliament as a constituency and Silesian Voivodeship Council as the executive body. A central political figure was Wojciech Korfanty. The part of Silesia awarded to Poland was by far the best-developed and richest region of the newly formed state, producing most of Poland's industrial output.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56098126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56098126", "title": "Global Creativity Index", "text": "Global Creativity Index\n\nThe Global Creativity Index (GCI) is a four dimensional ranking of countries. It combines individually-ranked countries based on creativity, technology, talent, and tolerance into an overall score. The top country in 2015 was Australia, followed by the United States, with New Zealand third.\nThe CGI is published by the Martin Prosperity Institute, which belongs to the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management.\n"}
{"id": "1354307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354307", "title": "Gossnab", "text": "Gossnab\n\nGossnab of USSR, State Supplies of the USSR () was active in 1948-1953, 1965-1991. It was the state committee for material technical supply in the Soviet Union. It was charged with the primary responsibility for the allocation of producer goods to enterprises, a critical state function in the absence of markets.\n\nGossnab was one of more than twenty state committees under the Council of Ministers, the administrative arm of the Soviet government, along with other economic organs such as Gosplan (the state planning committee) and Gosbank (the state bank). Created amid a series of economic reforms implemented under Premier Alexei Kosygin in the mid-1960s, Gossnab coordinated the allocation of resources not handled by Gosplan. Gossnab had mixed success in creating a wholesale trade system, based on direct contracts between suppliers and users.\n\nOriginally founded in 1917 as the People's Commissariat for Food Supplies (, translit. \"Narodny Commissariat Prodovolstviya\", often abbreviated as Narkomprod) was the People's Commissariat (ministry) of the Russian SFSR in charge of food supplies and industrial goods. The first Commissar was Ivan Teodorovich.\n\nThere were several subsidiary organisations:\n\nThe Narkomprod was responsible in June 1918 for the attempted organisation of 'committees of the poor' in provincial villages. This was an attempt to encourage a 'class war' in the countryside but it did not materialise, mainly because the peasants were not resentful of 'kulaks' (rich peasants) as there was a tendency for all peasants to have the same interests (for example, their own land ownership).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56439022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56439022", "title": "Hardy McLain", "text": "Hardy McLain\n\nBruce Hardy McLain (born September 1952) is an American retired hedge fund manager, and a co-founder and former managing partner of CVC Capital Partners.\n\nBruce Hardy McLain was born in September 1952, in San Francisco, US.\n\nMcLain earned a bachelor's degree in economics and public policy from Duke University, North Carolina, followed by an MBA in finance and marketing from UCLA, California.\n\nIn December 2012, McLain retired after 25 years with CVC.\n\nMcLain has been a non-executive director of Samsonite International since June 2014, and Formula One, the Colomer Group and the Lecta Group.\n\nMcLain lives in London with his wife Helle and six children. \n\nIn May 2017, he gave £100,000 to the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "2122125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2122125", "title": "Infernal Noise Brigade", "text": "Infernal Noise Brigade\n\nThe Infernal Noise Brigade was a Seattle, Washington-based musical group, who originally formed to participate in the protests at the WTO Meeting of 1999. Over its seven-year history, the group performed as part of several large-scale protest actions, such as those at the 2000 IMF/World Bank Meeting in Prague, the 2003 WTO Ministerial in Cancún, Mexico, the 2004 United States Republican Party National Convention in New York City, as well as at numerous events in their homebase of Seattle. In July 2005, they participated in the protests against the 31st G8 summit in Scotland as part of a European tour that also brought them to England, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Austria.\n\nTheir website describes their music as combining \"elements of drumline, taiko, Mughal and North African rhythms, elements of Balkan fanfares, breakbeats, and just about anything else.\" Although best known for their free (and often confrontational) public performances at political protests, they sometimes performed at more conventional concerts and club gigs, usually featured as part of a musically eclectic program.\n\nChristopher Frizzelle, in an \"obituary\" for the band in the Seattle-based arts weekly \"The Stranger\", remarked that their \"most important and dramatic public events were standoffs with cops\" and that they \"can be credited for keeping WTO protestors energized, focused, and photogenic… What their parties and their protests had in common was intensity, vividness, and a fun, frightening sense that anything could happen. They were lessons in liberation.\"\n\nFrizzelle, who travelled with INB on a portion of their European tour, wrote in his review of that tour that the members used \"band names\", partly to \"retain the mystery of the band\" and partly to preserve their anonymity from their employers: almost none of the band members are professional musicians. As example, Frizzelle provided the roster from the mainland portion of the European tour: \"Annemat, Atomika, B. Q. (whose band name is Red Dot, but no one calls her that), Bluer Than You, Bookworm, Brassbelle, D. P. Punkass (\"My whole name is Dread Pirate Punkass, but in print I like to be D. P. Punkass\"), DK Pan, Flash, Grey Filastine, Hawtpantz, Ice Frog, In Phase, Megor, Mildred, Mr. Rose, the Professor, Ramon, Satsuma, Skunk, Spider, and Violet.\"[With accidental omission of mc sub-zero permafrost].\n\nThe Infernal Noise Brigade officially disbanded on July 29, 2006.\n\nMembers of Infernal Noise Brigade went on to form Titanium Sporkestra.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17110382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17110382", "title": "International Khilafah Conference", "text": "International Khilafah Conference\n\nOn 12 August 2007 one hundred thousand Muslims gathered in Indonesia to call for the return of the Caliphate. It was one of the largest political gatherings of Muslims ever to have taken place. The event was organised by the Islamist party, Hizb ut-Tahrir, whose stated intention is to create a new Caliphate encompassing the 'Muslim world'.\n\nKey speakers, including Dr Imran Waheed were refused entry to Jakarta and forced to deliver their speeches by video link.\n\nParallel conferences were also held in the UK and Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "9754701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9754701", "title": "International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance", "text": "International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance\n\nThe year 2001 was declared the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance by the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nThe United Nations International Years, beginning with the World Refugee Year in 1959/1960, are designated in order to focus world attention on important issues. The decision to devote the year 2001 to mobilization against racism and xenophobia was taken by the General Assembly on December 9, 1998 and was linked to the decision to organize a conference, the World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, in the same year. In its resolution (A/RES/53/132) the General Assembly stated that the observance was \"aimed at drawing the world’s attention to the objectives of the World Conference and giving new momentum to the political commitment to the elimination of all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance\".\n\nThe conference was held in Durban, South Africa. 7,000 representatives from civil society participated in an NGO Forum from August 28 to 31, 2001. The governmental meeting was held from August 31 to September 7, 2001. A declaration and programme of action was adopted on September 8. United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson was the Secretary-General of the conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "15968618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15968618", "title": "Jacob Appelbaum", "text": "Jacob Appelbaum\n\nJacob Appelbaum (born 1 April 1983) is an American independent journalist, computer security researcher, artist, and hacker. He has been employed by the University of Washington, and was a core member of the Tor project, a free software network designed to provide online anonymity. Appelbaum is also known for representing WikiLeaks. He has displayed his art in a number of institutions across the world and has collaborated with artists such as Laura Poitras, Trevor Paglen, and Ai Weiwei. His journalistic work has been published in \"Der Spiegel\" and elsewhere. Appelbaum has repeatedly been targeted by U.S. law enforcement agencies, who obtained a court order for his Twitter account data, detained him at the U.S. border after trips abroad, and seized his laptop and several mobile phones.\n\nUnder the handle \"ioerror\", Appelbaum was an active member of the Cult of the Dead Cow hacker collective from 2008 to 2016. He was the co-founder of the San Francisco hackerspace Noisebridge with Mitch Altman. With several others, he co-founded the Seattle Privacy Coalition, an advocacy group. He worked for Kink.com and Greenpeace, and volunteered for the Ruckus Society and the Rainforest Action Network.\n\nThe Tor Project and several other organizations ended their association with Appelbaum in June 2016 following several allegations of sexual abuse. Appelbaum has denied the allegations. Various activists and others have publicly supported Appelbaum, voicing concerns about due process, trial by social media, and questioning the reliability of the claims. The affair has had repercussions in the on-line privacy advocacy world. While U.S. news media have treated the allegations as credible, reporting in Germany, where Appelbaum lives, has been sharply critical. No legal action has been taken by either Appelbaum or any accuser.\n\nAppelbaum says that he tested out of high school and attended junior college briefly before he \"stopped college and continued my education.\" In a wide-ranging interview with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine in 2010, Appelbaum revealed that \"I come from a family of lunatics... [a]ctual, raving lunatics.\" He stated that his mother \"is a paranoid schizophrenic. She insisted that Jake had somehow been molested by his father while he was still in the womb\". He was taken away from his mother by his aunt when he was 6. Two years later, he was placed in a children's home in Sonoma County. At age 10, his indigent father was awarded custody of him. Having been introduced to computer programming by a friend's father, Appelbaum said, saved his life. \"The Internet is the only reason I'm alive today.\"\n\n, Appelbaum is a Ph.D. student studying under Tanja Lange and Daniel J. Bernstein at the Eindhoven University of Technology.\n\nAppelbaum was among several people to gain access to former NSA contractor Edward Snowden's top secret documents released in 2013. He has contributed extensively as a journalist to the publication of those documents.\n\nOn 23 October 2013, Appelbaum and other writers and editors at \"Der Spiegel\" reported that their investigations had led German Chancellor Angela Merkel to confront the U.S. government over evidence that it was monitoring her personal cell phone.\nUS President Barack Obama issued an ambiguously worded denial and apology.\nThe \"Der Spiegel\" team reported on the resulting controversy and detailed a further claim that the Embassy of the United States, Berlin, was being used as a base of operations for electronic surveillance of its German ally.\nThe BBC commented that \"This scandal has caused one of the biggest diplomatic rifts between Germany and the U.S. in recent years.\"\nAt the scandal's peak, Merkel compared the National Security Agency with the East German Stasi secret police during an angry conversation with Obama.\n\nThe \"Der Spiegel\" team's reporting about Merkel earned the 2014 Henri Nannen prize\nfor investigative journalism. Appelbaum shared the prize with \"Der Spiegel\" writers and editors Marcel Rosenbach, , and . A few days later he provoked a furor by condemning Nannen, the prize's namesake, for his Nazi collaboration, declaring that he would have his bronze bust of Nannen melted down and recast, and donate his prize money to anti-fascist groups.\n\nOn 28 December 2013, at the Chaos Communication Congress, he presented documents showing that the NSA can turn iPhones into eavesdropping tools and has developed devices to harvest electronic information from a computer even if the computer is not online. An investigative team at \"Der Spiegel\", including Appelbaum, simultaneously published their findings, along with a descriptive list of the surveillance devices making up the NSA ANT catalog.\n\nOn 3 July 2014, German broadcaster NDR/ARD carried disclosures by Appelbaum and others about the operation of NSA's top-secret XKeyscore surveillance software, including source code proving that a computer of Appelbaum's had been targeted.\n\nOn 28 December 2014, \"Der Spiegel\" again drew from the Snowden documents to assess the NSA's ability to crack encrypted Internet communications.\nIn a separate article, they described how British and American intelligence used covert surveillance to target, often inaccurately, suspected Taliban fighters and drug smugglers for killing.\n\nAppelbaum has appeared several times on Democracy Now! as a security researcher, privacy activist, and target of government surveillance.\nHe appeared with Julian Assange on Episode 8 & 9 of \"World Tomorrow\", \"Cypherpunks\".\n\nHe is a contributor to Julian Assange's 2012 book \"Cypherpunks: Freedom and the Future of the Internet\" along with Andy Müller-Maguhn and Jérémie Zimmermann.\n\nAppelbaum was a member of the outside volunteer technical advisory board of the Freedom of the Press Foundation until 8 June 2016.\n\nIn 2005, Appelbaum gave two talks at the 22nd Chaos Communication Congress, \"Personal Experiences: Bringing Technology and New Media to Disaster Areas\", and \"A Discussion About Modern Disk Encryption Systems\". The former covered his travels to Iraq—crossing the border by foot, the installing of Internet satellites in Kurdistan, and his visit of New Orleans post-Hurricane Katrina. The latter talk discussed the legal and technical aspects of full disk encryption. At the 2006 23rd Chaos Communication Congress, he gave a talk with Ralf-Philipp Weinmann titled \"Unlocking FileVault: An Analysis of Apple's Encrypted Disk Storage System\". The duo subsequently released the VileFault free software program which broke Apple's FileVault security.\n\nAppelbaum has collaborated on several other high-profile research projects.\n\nAppelbaum regards Tor as a \"part of an ecosystem of software that helps people regain and reclaim their autonomy. It helps to enable people to have agency of all kinds; it helps others to help each other and it helps you to help yourself. It runs, it is open and it is supported by a large community spread across all walks of life.\"\n\nAppelbaum was a Debian developer from 16 September 2013 to 18 June 2016.\n\nApplebaum was also a keynote speaker at Consilience 2013, organised by National Law School of India University, Bengaluru on Data Protection and Cyber-Security in India.\n\nAppelbaum has taken part in a number of art projects with dissident artists including Laura Poitras, Trevor Paglen, Ai Weiwei, and Angela Richter. His art often straddles the borders of art, politics, and technology and has given rise to projects such as \"Panda to Panda\" (P2P) and the \"Autonomy Cube\".\n\nAppelbaum is also a photographer who has contributed still photographs to film and game projects. He exhibited his work in a solo show at NOME in 2016.\n\nAppelbaum appeared in Laura Poitras's Academy Award-winning film \"Citizenfour\" (2014), which documents the public emergence of NSA whistle-blower Edward Snowden and the political circumstances leading to his actions. Appelbaum stars in Poitras's portrait of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, \"Risk\" (2016).\n\nHe was an artist in residence for the art group monochrom at Museumsquartier in 2006.\n\nAppelbaum represented Wikileaks founder Julian Assange in a keynote address at the 2010 HOPE conference. FBI agents were planning to detain him after his talk, but organizers slipped him out through an alternative exit in disguise.\n\nIn August 2013, Appelbaum delivered Edward Snowden's acceptance speech after he was awarded the biannual Whistleblower Prize by a group of NGOs at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities.\n\nAppelbaum believes he has been under government surveillance since 2009, to the detriment of himself, his friends, and his close relations. In interviews he has stated that living in Germany has given him a sense of relief from U.S. surveillance. Appelbaum has described various aggressive surveillance events, and implies they are related to his work with Wikileaks, to his privacy activism, and to relationships with other privacy activists, notably reporters linked to Edward Snowden. In December 2013, Appelbaum said he suspected the U.S. government of breaking into his Berlin apartment.\n\nWhile traveling, Appelbaum has been detained at airports and had his electronic equipment seized several times.\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of Justice obtained a court order compelling Twitter to provide data associated with the user accounts of Appelbaum, as well as several other individuals associated with WikiLeaks. While the order was originally sealed, Twitter successfully petitioned the court to unseal it, permitting the company to inform its users that their account information had been requested.\n\nIn September 2013, he testified before the European Parliament, mentioning that his partner had been spied on by men in night-vision goggles as she slept.\n\nIn December 2013, Appelbaum told Berliner Zeitung that he believes he was under surveillance and that somebody broke into his Berlin apartment and used his computer.\n\nIn March 2015, Appelbaum was suspended from his position at the Tor Project for ten days due to alleged incidents of harassment.\n\nOn 25 May 2016, Appelbaum stepped down from his position at Tor; this was announced on 2 June by the non-profit in a terse statement. On 4 June, Shari Steele, the executive director of the Tor project, published a much longer statement, noting that although prior allegations of sexual abuse regarding Appelbaum were consistent with \"rumors some of us had been hearing for some time,\" that \"the most recent allegations are much more serious and concrete than anything we had heard previously.\"\n\nAlso on 4 June, a website appeared with anonymous accounts of mistreatment by Appelbaum. Security engineer Leigh Honeywell came forward on 7 June to publicly relate the website's stories with her relationship with Appelbaum, in which she described Appelbaum ignoring a safeword and becoming violent. On 15 June, Alison Macrina (the director of the Library Freedom Project) and Isis Agora Lovecruft publicly announced that the website's anonymous accounts of sexual abuse, under the pseudonyms of \"Sam\" and \"Forest,\" respectively, were their own.\n\nOn 6 June, Appelbaum issued a statement denouncing the allegations as part of a concerted strategy to damage his reputation.\n\nAn anonymously leaked letter that the Tor Project's human resources manager had written to Appelbaum in conjunction with his March 2015 suspension for unprofessional conduct was published on 7 June.\n\nIn response to the allegations, the Cult of the Dead Cow ended their association with Appelbaum on 7 June, and the Freedom of the Press Foundation removed him from their volunteer technical advisory board on 8 June. Noisebridge announced on 10 June that co-founder Appelbaum had triggered their Anti-Harassment policy and is \"no longer welcome in our community, either in its physical or online spaces,\" and on 17 June the Chaos Computer Club announced that he was not welcome. On 18 June his status as a Debian GNU/Linux project developer was revoked. On 1 July Linux Australia barred Appelbaum from future events.\n\nOn 10 June, Jill Bähring, a woman whom three witnesses claimed to have seen being abused, flatly denied the abuse allegations. In a statement released by Gizmodo journalist William Turton, Bähring wrote: \"Reading this highly distorted version of my experience, which is being used as one of the 'bulletproof examples' of Jacob's alleged misbehavior, I can’t help but wonder. Wonder about all the stories that have been published the last days. Wonder not only about mob justice on twitter, caused by rumors and speculation, but also about the accounts repeated by those who call themselves journalists. Wonder about how many other stories have been willingly misinterpreted. Wonder about the witnesses in all these stories, who coincidentally always seem to consist of the same set of people. Wonder about their motive to speak on my behalf without my consent.\"\n\nOn 17 June 2016, activists, journalists and legal professionals supporting Appelbaum signed a document defending his right to due process, and deploring the story's treatment by social media.\n\nIn June 2016, Appelbaum's Berlin apartment was defaced in English and German with graffiti directly referencing the allegations.\n\nIn July 2016 the Tor Project announced it had completed a seven-week investigation led by a hired investigator. According to Shari Steele, Tor Project \"did everything in our power\" to treat Mr. Appelbaum fairly, but \"we determined that the allegations against him appear to be true.\" According to her summary of the investigation, which was not released, \"many people inside and outside the Tor Project have reported incidents of being humiliated, intimidated, bullied, and frightened\" by Jacob Appelbaum, and that \"several experienced unwanted sexually aggressive behavior from him.\" Steele made no mention of rape claims published on the anonymous website. Steele alleged that two other unnamed individuals had also been involved in inappropriate behavior are no longer part of the project. Among other changes, Steele stated that an anti-harassment policy has been drafted.\n\nOn 11 August 2016, the German weekly Die Zeit published a lengthy investigation into the rape charges, including interviews with three people present at the scene of the alleged rape. None of these witnesses corroborated the claims made by the anonymous victim. The article also reports that a second falsely identified victim had demanded that her story be removed from the anonymous website.\n\nAs of August 2016 the affair was the cause of considerable dissent within the Tor community, with calls for a one-day Tor strike being issued via GitHub (and later on Twitter with the hashtag #TorStrike). Appelbaum has not endorsed this action.\n\nAppelbaum is an atheist of Jewish background and identifies himself as queer. Politically, he is an anarchist.\n\nIn 2012 he moved to Berlin, where he works under a freelance visa; he has stated that he doesn't want to go back to the U.S. because he doesn't feel safe there and in interviews he has provided specific examples of experiences that left him feeling unsafe. Appelbaum also notes strong German privacy protections as reasons for preferring to live in Germany, as opposed to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "6158721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6158721", "title": "Khanate", "text": "Khanate\n\nA khanate or khaganate is a political entity ruled by a khan or khagan. This political entity is typical for people from the Eurasian Steppe and it can be equivalent to tribal chiefdom, principality, kingdom or empire.\n\nAfter Genghis Khan established appanages for his family in the Mongol Empire during his rule (1206-1227), his sons, daughters, and grandsons inherited separate sections of the empire. The Mongol Empire and Mongolian khanates that emerged from those appanages are listed below. Furthermore, the proto-Mongols also established some khanates (or khaganates) such as the Rouran Khaganate.\n\n\nThe Oirats established the following khanates in the 17th century:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42024942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42024942", "title": "LGBT history in Peru", "text": "LGBT history in Peru\n\nHomosexuality in Peru was decriminalised in 1837.\n"}
{"id": "9591797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9591797", "title": "LGBT rights in the Comoros", "text": "LGBT rights in the Comoros\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Comoros face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Comoros has laws applying to acts considered to be against nature. The age of consent is thirteen.\n\nBoth male and female sexual acts considered to be against nature are illegal in Comoros. Such acts are punished with up to five years imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 1,000,000 francs.\n\nThere is no recognition of legal rights for same-sex couples.\n\nThere is no legal protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State's 2010 Human Rights Report found that \"persons engaging in homosexual activity did not publicly discuss their sexual orientation due to societal pressure. There are no lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender organizations in the country.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46239703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46239703", "title": "Lang Labor Party (South Australia)", "text": "Lang Labor Party (South Australia)\n\nThe Lang Labor Party was a political party active in South Australia from 1931 to 1934, aligned with Lang Labor and the policies of Premier of New South Wales Jack Lang.\n\nIt was formed as a result of increasing tensions within the Australian Labor Party over the party's economic response to the Great Depression in Australia. The opponents of austerity in the Labor Party, of which Lang was among the most prominent figures, had supported repudiating Australia's debt, while supporters of austerity policies would subsequently introduce the national \"Premiers' Plan\" to achieve those ends. The 1931 Labor split occurred both at a state and federal level, with Lang's supporters being known as \"Lang Labor\".\n\nBy May 1931, the \"Lang Plan Campaign Committee\" had been formed in South Australia to give publicity to and campaign for Lang's ideas. Its members were not, at its inception, outside the Labor Party; however, the breach between Lang's supporters and the mainstream party quickly broadened, and reports that month suggested that a split in the party was imminent. The committee's president was Doug Bardolph, and its secretary was Tom Howard.\n\nIn July 1931, a by-election was held for the South Australian House of Assembly seat of Adelaide, in the wake of Labor MP Bert Edwards being sentenced to jail. The Lang Plan Campaign Committee decided to separately contest the by-election, and the secretary of the Ironworkers' Union, Martin Collaton, was chosen as their candidate. Collaton went on to win the by-election, in which he had been usually referred to as a \"Lang Plan supporter\" or a \"Lang Plan candidate\".\n\nThe supporters of Lang had begun being referred to as the \"Lang Labor Party\" by August 1931, by which time they had established local branches. In addition to Collaton, the party supported independent Labor state MP Bob Dale, who had been expelled from the Labor Party for supporting Lang's ideas, and who would later run for re-election under the party's banner. In October, the Lang Labor Party nominated Bardolph in a Legislative Council by-election for the Central District No. 1 seat and ran a significant campaign on his behalf, but saw him defeated by independent Joseph Anderson \n\nTwo of the three Lang Labor Party MHAs elected at the 1933 state election, Bob Dale and Tom Howard, left the party in 1933 post-election after falling out with leader Doug Bardolph and formed their own party, the South Australian Lang Labor Party (SALLP).\n\nIn June 1934 the four Labor factions were reunited.\n\n"}
{"id": "56358938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56358938", "title": "Lex Kallio", "text": "Lex Kallio\n\nThe Act on the acquisition of land for settlement purposes () or Lex Kallio was a 1922 Finnish law, nicknamed after its proponent Kyösti Kallio, who later served as the President of Finland. The key provision was in its section 2, where it was provided that the State and local authorities would facilitate the acquisition of land for Finnish citizens wishing to do so for the purposes of cultivation and residential settlement. The law was repealed in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "261710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261710", "title": "List of electoral systems by country", "text": "List of electoral systems by country\n\nThis table deals with voting to select candidates for office, not for the passing of legislation.\n\n\n\nMuch of the data on Bulgaria from Central electoral committee - \"Methods for determining the number of mandates in constituencies and the results of the vote\" (in Bulgarian); A mathematical analysis of the system\n\nMuch of the data regarding which voting system is used is drawn from this 2002 report from the International Insititute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA).\n\nMuch of the data regarding the size of the parliaments comes from this 1997 report from the same Institute.\n\nSome of the data has been updated since then.\n\n"}
{"id": "33377042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33377042", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Lithuania)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Lithuania)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Lithuania () is a government department of the Republic of Lithuania. Its operations are authorized by the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania, decrees issued by the President and Prime Minister, and laws passed by the Seimas (Parliament). Its mission is to prosecute state policy realization and coordination in ranges of land, food, fishery, village development, agriculture. The current head of the Ministry is Giedrius Surplys.\n"}
{"id": "49412437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49412437", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry (Malaysia)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry (Malaysia)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry (), abbreviated MOA, is a ministry of the Government of Malaysia that is responsible for agriculture, agro-based industry, agritourism, livestock, veterinary services, fisheries, quarantine, inspection, agricultural research, agricultural development, agricultural marketing, pineapple industry, agribusiness, botanical garden, food security, food sovereignty.\n\n\n\n\nTo increase food production in Malaysia and reduce food imports, Bank Negara Malaysia and Ministry of Agriculture both provide financing at a reasonable cost, with a minimum of RM10,000 funding.\n\nOnly Malaysian-owned institutions (at least 51% ownership) are eligible for the financing. (incorporated under the Companies Act 1965, the Co-operative Societies Act 1993, the Societies Act 1966, citizens residing in Malaysia and entrepreneurs registered under the Companies Commission of Malaysia or any other authoritative bodies)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry is responsible for administration of several key Acts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19307491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19307491", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Bosnia and Herzegovina)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Bosnia and Herzegovina)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosnian, Serbian Latin: \"Ministarstvo odbrane Bosne i Hercegovine\" Serbian Cyrillic: Министарство одбране Босне и Херцеговине, Croatian: \"Ministarstvo obrane Bosne i Hercegovine\") is the governmental department in charge of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina and protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina from invasion and threats.\n\n"}
{"id": "29896200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29896200", "title": "Ministry of Health (Russia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Russia)\n\nThe Ministry of Healthcare of the Russian Federation (, in short \"Minzdrav Rossii\") is an agency of the government of Russia, headquartered in Moscow. It is the successor of the former \"Ministry of Health and Social Development\", which was split in two in 2012 under Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, with the social security departments being relegated to the newly formed Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Since then, Veronika Skvortsova has been the minister.\n\nIts main official responsibilities include:\ndiabetes, tuberculosis, health promotion, health education, disease prevention etc.;\n"}
{"id": "7316251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316251", "title": "National Culture Policy", "text": "National Culture Policy\n\nThe National Culture Policy introduced in 1970 in Malaysia, emphasized an assimilation of the non-Malays into the Malay ethnic group. However, during the 1990s Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad rejected this approach, with his \"Bangsa Malaysia\" policy emphasising a Malaysian instead of Malay identity for the state.\n\nMalaysian National Culture Policy is defined in the \"1971 National Culture Policy\". It defines 3 principles as guidelines for 'national culture':\n\nThe main objectives of this policy was to:\n\n"}
{"id": "58359870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58359870", "title": "Norbert Becker (biologist)", "text": "Norbert Becker (biologist)\n\nNorbert Becker (* 1949 in Hüffelsheim, Landkreis Bad Kreuznach) is a biologist, university lecturer at the University of Heidelberg, scientific-technical director of KABS, and managing director and vice-president of the European Mosquito Control Association (EMCA). He is also president of the World Mosquito Control Association (WMCA). \n\nAfter finishing school Becker studied at Heidelberg University and obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree in biology, physics and chemistry in 1974. He obtained a Master of Science degree in biology in 1976 at the Zoological Institute of the same university in 1976. He then obtained a doctorate in Natural Science there, followed by professorship in biology with Venia Legendi in Zoologie at the Faculty of Bioscience in 1993. \n\nHe has been a lecturer at Heidelberg University since 1977, where he became a professor in 2008, and gives turorials in medical Entomology und Oncology at its Zoological Institute. As a professor, Beccker supervises doctoral students in entomology (e.g. medical entomology) and applied field research in Heidelberg. \n\nBecker has been active in mosquito control in the upper Rhine (Schnakenbekämpfung am Oberrhein) since 1976, and since 1981 is the Scientific Director of the German Mosquito Control Organisation and Technical Director of the Community Action Committee for the Fight Against Mosquito Infestation (Kommunalen Aktionsgemeinschaft zur Bekämpfung der Schnakenplage) in Speyer. \n\nIn addition Becker is involved in numerous international organisations and is founding president of the World Mosquito Control Association.\n\nNorbert Becker is married with four grown-up children.\n\n\nBecker‘s goal is to establish a globally active organisation for the control of mosquitos as carriers of disease (Mosquito Control Associations) within the world-wide organisation WMCA in order to limit disease spread by mosquitos in a coordinated manner.\nBy 2018 Becker had published more than two hundred articles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2403206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2403206", "title": "Oath More Judaico", "text": "Oath More Judaico\n\nThe Oath \"More Judaico\" or Jewish Oath was a special form of oath, rooted in antisemitsm and accompanied by certain ceremonies and often intentionally humiliating, painful or dangerous, that Jews were required to take in European courts of law until the 20th century. \"More Judaico\" is Latin for \"on/by the Jewish custom.\" The question of the trustworthiness of the Jewish oath was intimately connected with the meaning that Christian authorities assigned to the \"Kol Nidre\" prayer, recited by Jews on Yom Kippur, and the whole of the legislation regarding the oath was characteristic of the attitude of medieval states toward their Jewish subjects. The identification of Church and State seemed to render it necessary to have a different formula for those outside the state church.\n\nThe disability imposed on a Jew engaged in legal contention with a Christian dates back to Byzantine emperor Justinian I, who declared that neither Jews nor heretics should be admitted as witnesses against Christians; secular courts, however, did not recognize this disability. Thus, in the safe conducts issued by the Carolingian kings in the 9th century, Jews and Christians were treated as equals, and consequently the testimony of the former, whether given under oath or not, was as admissible as the latter. This was distinctly stated in the charter granted by Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV to the Jews of Speyer in 1090. The law of Duke Frederick II of Austria (1244), which served as a model for much other legislation on the Jews, merely required a Jew to swear \"super Rodal\" (by the Torah). Similar laws existed in England, Portugal, and Hungary; Hungary waived the requirement to swear on the Torah in trivial cases.\n\nThere were, however, some older laws that prescribed certain practices intended to mock Jews in court. These examples illustrated the kinds of humiliating rituals that accompanied the taking of the oath:\n\nThe following formula, originally in Middle High German, was used in Frankfurt on the Main about 1392:\n\nA decidedly aggressive change took place when, in 1555, the German imperial court procedure (\"Reichskammergerichtsordnung\") prescribed a form of oath that, with some alterations, formed a model to subsequent legislation. Horrible were the terms in which the swearer called down upon himself all the curses of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the ten plagues of Egypt, the leprosy of Naaman and Gehazi (see 2 Kings 5), the fate of Dathan and Abiram, etc.\n\nAccording to a recount in his \"Gesammelte Schriften,\" the great German-Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn of the Enlightenment persuaded the Prussian government to moderate the terms of the oath during the 18th century. The small German states gradually surrendered the most objectionable features of the oath: Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel), in 1828; Oldenburg, 1829; Württemberg, 1832; Saxony, 1839 (on which occasion Zecharias Frankel published his famous \"Die Eidesleistung\"); Schaumburg-Lippe and Anhalt-Bernburg, 1842; and Hesse-Homburg, 1865. \n\nPrussia retained the obnoxious formula until March 15, 1869; the Netherlands modified the oath in 1818, and Russia in 1838 and 1860. The Jewish advocate Isaac Adolphe Crémieux won great fame by effecting the abolition of the oath through a case brought before the court of Nîmes in 1827. Lazard Isidor, as rabbi of Pfalzburg, refused in 1839 to open the synagogue for such an oath; prosecuted for contempt of court, he was defended by Crémieux and acquitted. The French Supreme Court finally declared the oath unconstitutional on March 3, 1846. However, as late as 1902, a court in Romania upheld that country's version of the oath.\n\n"}
{"id": "45426036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45426036", "title": "Operation Socialist", "text": "Operation Socialist\n\nOperation Socialist is the code name given by the British signals and communications agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) to an operation in which GCHQ successfully breached the infrastructure of the Belgian telecommunications company Belgacom between 2010 and 2013. The operation's existence was first revealed in documents leaked by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. GCHQ used a method called Quantum Insert attack embedded in fake LinkedIn pages targeting Belgacom engineers The breach was conducted under the code name 'OP Socialist'. The main target of the clandestine infiltration was to gain access to Belgacom's GRX Operator to enable GCHQ to obtain roaming data for mobile devices and execute what is generally referred to as Man-in-the-middle attack against targets.\n\nWhen the first anomalies were detected in 2012, Belgacom's security team were unable to identify their cause. Only in 2013 malware disguised as legitimate Microsoft software had been identified as the source of problems.\n\nAccording to the leaked documents GCHQ probed Belgacom's infrastructure for years. According to the leaked documents 'Operation Socialist' has been qualified by the head of the GCHQ's Network Analysis Centre as a success.\n\nSnowden subsequently described Operation Socialist as the \"first documented example to show one EU member state mounting a cyber attack on another…\"\n"}
{"id": "8545283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8545283", "title": "Pad site", "text": "Pad site\n\nA pad site or outparcel is a freestanding parcel of commercial real estate located in the front of a larger shopping center or strip mall. Desirable because of their visibility to consumers, accessibility, and the ease of facilitating drive-thru service, pad sites are typically sought after by banks, casual dining, and fast food restaurants. Pad sites usually range between 2,000 and 75,000 square feet (). They can be ground leased by developers or purchased outright. The former offers a lower up-front cost, but the user is unable to use the land as collateral to finance building expenses because pad sites do not have their own legal address. The latter requires a larger capital investment, but provides the user an appreciable asset in real estate.\n"}
{"id": "182113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182113", "title": "Parliamentary system", "text": "Parliamentary system\n\nA parliamentary system is a system of democratic governance of a state where the executive derives its democratic legitimacy from its ability to command the confidence of the legislature, typically a parliament, and is also held accountable to that parliament. In a parliamentary system, the head of state is usually a person distinct from the head of government. This is in contrast to a presidential system, where the head of state often is also the head of government and, most importantly, the executive does not derive its democratic legitimacy from the legislature.\n\nCountries with parliamentary democracies may be constitutional monarchies, where a monarch is the head of state while the head of government is almost always a member of parliament (such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden and Japan), or parliamentary republics, where a mostly ceremonial president is the head of state while the head of government is regularly from the legislature (such as Ireland, Germany, India and Italy). In a few parliamentary republics, such as Botswana, South Africa, and Suriname, among some others, the head of government is also head of state, but is elected by and is answerable to parliament. In bicameral parliaments, the head of government is generally, though not always, a member of the lower house.\n\nParliamentarianism is the dominant form of government in Europe, with 32 of its 50 sovereign states being parliamentarian. It is also common in the Caribbean, being the form of government of 10 of its 13 island states, and in Oceania. Elsewhere in the world, parliamentary countries are less common, but they are distributed through all continents, most often in former colonies of the British Empire.\n\nSince ancient times, when societies were tribal, there were councils or a headman whose decisions were assessed by village elders. Eventually, these councils have slowly evolved into the modern parliamentary system.\n\nThe first parliaments date back to Europe in the Middle Ages in Greece, specifically in 1188 Alfonso IX, King of Leon (Spain) convened the three states in the Cortes of León. An early example of parliamentary government developed in today's Netherlands and Belgium during the Dutch revolt (1581), when the sovereign, legislative and executive powers were taken over by the States General of the Netherlands from the then-monarch, King Philip II of Spain. The modern concept of parliamentary government emerged in the Kingdom of Great Britain between 1707–1800 and its contemporary, the Parliamentary System in Sweden between 1721–1772.\n\nIn England, Simon de Montfort is remembered as one of the fathers of representative government for holding two famous parliaments. The first, in 1258, stripped the King of unlimited authority and the second, in 1265, included ordinary citizens from the towns. Later, in the 17th century, the Parliament of England pioneered some of the ideas and systems of liberal democracy culminating in the Glorious Revolution and passage of the Bill of Rights 1689.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Great Britain, the monarch, in theory, chaired cabinet and chose ministers. In practice, King George I's inability to speak English led the responsibility for chairing cabinet to go to the leading minister, literally the \"prime\" or first minister, Robert Walpole. The gradual democratisation of parliament with the broadening of the voting franchise increased parliament's role in controlling government, and in deciding who the king could ask to form a government. By the nineteenth-century, the Great Reform Act of 1832 led to parliamentary dominance, with its choice \"invariably\" deciding who was prime minister and the complexion of the government.\n\nOther countries gradually adopted what came to be called the Westminster Model of government, with an executive answerable to parliament, but exercising powers nominally vested in the head of state, in the name of the head of state. Hence the use of phrases like \"Her Majesty's government\" or \"His Excellency's government\". Such a system became particularly prevalent in older British dominions, many of whom had their constitutions enacted by the British parliament; examples include Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the Irish Free State and the Union of South Africa. Some of these parliaments evolved were reformed from, or were initially developed as distinct from their original British model: the Australian Senate, for instance, has since its inception more closely reflected the US Senate than the British House of Lords; whereas since 1950 there is no upper house in New Zealand.\n\nDemocracy and parliamentarianism became increasingly prevalent in Europe in the years after World War I, partially imposed by the democratic victors, Great Britain and France, on the defeated countries and their successors, notably Germany's Weimar Republic and the new Austrian Republic. Nineteenth-century urbanisation, the Industrial Revolution and, modernism had already fuelled the political left's struggle for democracy and parliamentarianism for a long time. In the radicalised times at the end of World War I, democratic reforms were often seen as a means to counter popular revolutionary currents.\n\nA parliamentary system may be either bicameral, with two chambers of parliament (or houses) or unicameral, with just one parliamentary chamber. In the case of a bicameral parliament, this is usually characterised by an elected lower house that has the power to determine the executive government and an upper house which may be appointed or elected through a different mechanism from the lower house.\n\nScholars of democracy such as Arend Lijphart distinguish two types of parliamentary democracies: the Westminster and Consensus systems.\n\n\nImplementations of the parliamentary system can also differ on the manner of how the prime minister and government are appointed and as to whether the government needs the explicit approval of the parliament, rather than just the absence of its disapproval. Some countries such as India also require the prime minister to be a member of the legislature, though in other countries this only exists as a convention.\n\nFurthermore, there are variations as to what conditions exist (if any) for the government to have the right to dissolve the parliament:\n\nThe parliamentary system can be contrasted with a presidential system which operates under a stricter separation of powers, whereby the executive does not form part of—nor is appointed by—the parliamentary or legislative body. In such a system, parliaments or congresses do not select or dismiss heads of governments, and governments cannot request an early dissolution as may be the case for parliaments. There also exists the semi-presidential system that draws on both presidential systems and parliamentary systems by combining a powerful president with an executive responsible to parliament, for example, the French Fifth Republic.\n\nparliamentarianism may also apply to regional and local governments. An example is the city of Oslo, which has an executive council (Byråd) as a part of the parliamentary system.\n\nA few parliamentary democratic nations such as India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, have enacted an anti-defection law, which prohibits a member of the legislature from switching to another party after being elected. With this law, elected representatives lose their seats in parliament if they vote contrary to the directions of their party.\n\nOne of the commonly attributed advantages to parliamentary systems is that it is faster and easier to pass legislation, as the executive branch is formed by the direct or indirect support of the legislative branch and often includes members of the legislature. Thus the executive (as the majority party or coalition of parties in the legislature) has a majority of the votes and can pass legislation at will. In a presidential system, the executive is often chosen independently from the legislature. If the executive and the majority of the legislature are from different political parties, then stalemate can occur. Thus the executive might not be able to implement its legislative proposals. An executive in any system (be it parliamentary, presidential or semi-presidential) is chiefly voted into office on the basis of his or her party's platform/manifesto, and the same is also true of the legislature.\n\nIn addition to quicker legislative action, a parliamentary government has attractive features for nations that are ethnically, racially, or ideologically divided. In a presidential system, all executive power is vested in one person: the president. In a parliamentary system, with a collegial executive, power is more divided. In the 1989 Lebanese Taif Agreement, in order to give Muslims greater political power, Lebanon moved from a semi-presidential system with a strong president to a system more structurally similar to classical parliamentary government. Iraq similarly disdained a presidential system out of fears that such a system would be tantamount to Shiite domination; Afghanistan's minorities refused to go along with a presidency as strong as the Pashtuns desired.\n\nIt can also be argued that power is more evenly spread out in parliamentary government, as the government and prime minister do not have the ability to make unilateral decisions as the entire government cabinet is answerable and accountable to parliament. Parliamentary systems are less likely to allow celebrity-based politics to fully dominate a society unlike what often happens in presidential systems, where name-recall and popularity can catapult a celebrity, actor, or popular politician to the presidency despite such candidate's lack of competence and experience.\n\nIn his 1867 book \"The English Constitution\", Walter Bagehot praised parliamentary governments for producing serious debates, for allowing for a change in power without an election, and for allowing elections at any time. Bagehot considered the four-year election rule of the United States to be unnatural, as it can potentially allow a president who has disappointed the public with a dismal performance in the second year of his term to continue on until the end of his 4-year term. Under a parliamentary system, a prime minister that has lost support in the middle of his term can be easily replaced by his own peers.\n\nSome scholars like Juan Linz, Fred Riggs, Bruce Ackerman, and Robert Dahl have found that parliamentary government is less prone to authoritarian collapse. These scholars point out that since World War II, two-thirds of Third World countries establishing parliamentary governments successfully made the transition to democracy. By contrast, no Third World presidential system successfully made the transition to democracy without experiencing coups and other constitutional breakdowns.\n\nA recent World Bank study found that parliamentary systems are associated with less corruption. This study's findings are supported by a separate study that arrived at the same conclusions.\n\nSome constituencies may have a popular local candidate under an unpopular leader (or the reverse), forcing a difficult choice on the electorate. Mixed-member proportional representation (where voters cast two votes) can make this choice easier by allowing voters to cast one vote for the local candidate at the constituency level but also cast a second vote for another party at the wider parliamentary level.\n\nAlthough Bagehot praised parliamentary governments for allowing an election to take place at any time, the lack of a definite election calendar can be abused. Previously under some systems, such as the British, a ruling party could schedule elections when it felt that it was likely to retain power, and so avoid elections at times of unpopularity. (Election timing in the UK, however, is now partly fixed under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011.) Thus, by a wise timing of elections, in a parliamentary system, a party can extend its rule for longer than is feasible in a functioning presidential system. This problem can be alleviated somewhat by setting fixed dates for parliamentary elections, as is the case in several of Australia's state parliaments. In other systems, such as the Dutch and the Belgian, the ruling party or coalition has some flexibility in determining the election date. Conversely, flexibility in the timing of parliamentary elections can avoid periods of legislative gridlock that can occur in a fixed period presidential system. Such feature in being able to time elections whenever it is advantageous to the ruling party is not a real issue, however, as voters ultimately have the ability to still make the choice of whether to vote for the ruling party or not.\n\nIt has been well-observed that the rankings of top-performing countries according to performance indices such as list of countries by GDP (nominal) per capita, Human Development Index, Global Competitiveness Report, Corruption Perceptions Index, and many more performance indexes feature most best-performing countries having parliamentary systems, while most worst-performing countries have presidential systems or strong-president semi-presidential systems. This also extends to the fact that majority - if not all - of the countries that dominate top ranks of lists like the Global Liveability Ranking, the Mercer Quality of Living Survey, the Henley Passsport Index, and many such ranking lists use parliamentary systems. In contrast, the list of cities by murder rate shows an overwhelming number of cities found in countries that use presidential systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "7566024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7566024", "title": "Peace offering", "text": "Peace offering\n\nThe peace offering (Hebrew \"zevah shelamim\") was one of the sacrifices and offerings in the Hebrew Bible (Leviticus 3; 7.11–34). The term \"peace offering\" is generally constructed from \"slaughter offering\" \"zevah\" and the plural of \"shelem\" (Hebrew \"zevah hashelamiym\"), but is sometimes found without zevah as \"shelamim\" plural alone. The term \"korban shelamim\" (קורבן שלמים) is also used in rabbinical writings. In English Bible versions the term is rendered \"peace offering\" (KJV 1611, JPS 1917), \"offering of well-being\" (NRSV).\n\nParallels of offerings with the same semitic root S-L-M also occur in Ugaritic texts. After the Hebrew Bible the term also occurs in the Dead Sea scrolls, for example in the Temple Scroll. In the Septuagint the term is rendered by two different Greek nouns. First in the Pentateuch, Joshua, Judges variations of \"soterios\" (\"of saving\"); in Samuel and Kings variations of \"eirenikos\" (\"of peace\").\n\nSlaughter offering\n\n"}
{"id": "32532700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32532700", "title": "Peasant leagues (Brazil)", "text": "Peasant leagues (Brazil)\n\nPeasant leagues (Portuguese: ligas camponesas) were social organizations composed of sharecroppers, subsistence farmers, and other small agriculturalists. They originated in the agreste region of Northeastern Brazil in the 1950s. They were organized by the Brazilian Communist Party (PCB), and were later picked up by Francisco Julião, a member of the Democratic Labor Party (PDT) and other socialists. Founded to improve the standard of living for rural workers, their later objective became to oppose the power of latifundia in the region.\n\nThe leagues were founded by Brazilian communists, who believed that the latifundia, which had always dominated the Brazilian economy, were in a semicolonial relationship with the United States and were conspiring to oppress the working class by forcing rural workers to produce cash crops instead of food for native consumption and refusing to develop land which could not support those crops, a belief partly shared by outsiders to communism. The goal of the communists was to raise the rural workers' standard of living sufficiently that a classic Marxist capitalist-to-socialist transition could occur.\n\nWhen the PCB began struggling with political pressure in the late 1950s Francisco Julião began taking on the business of establishing and organizing leagues. In January 1955, Francisco Julião made one of the most important associations legal, the SAPPP, that used to fight for peasants rights before its legalization.\n\nCommunists objected to his growing role in the movement. His attempts to unify the leagues and resistance to registering them as unions conflicted with their own goal of attaining legitimacy, and his use of violent revolutionary rhetoric made them worry about retaliation from the military and police.\n\nThe populist Brazilian government's attitude towards the leagues varied over time from neutral to positive, while that of the military and police was uniformly negative. The armed forces in the Brazilian Northeast had many connections to wealthy landowners whose enterprises were threatened by the activities of the leagues, and they would go to extraordinary lengths to curtail league activity. The Catholic Church established organizations in the Northeast which functioned similarly but were conservative and anti-communist in their outlook; these groups were crushed alongside the peasant leagues following the 1964 coup.\n\n"}
{"id": "23616035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23616035", "title": "Right-to-farm laws", "text": "Right-to-farm laws\n\nRight to farm laws in the United States deny nuisance lawsuits against farmers who use accepted and standard farming practices and have been in prior operation even if these practices harm or bother adjacent property owners or the general public. Agricultural nuisances may include noise, odors, visual clutter and dangerous structures. All 50 states have some form of Right to Farm law.\n\nMany of these laws were passed after 1980 because of the reduction of available farmland, adversity from private and public nuisance actions, which hinder the prospect of farming. The laws are aimed to minimize the threat to normal farming practices from nuisance litigation and prohibitive state and local government regulation. In contrast to typical farmland preservation policies, which aim to preserve farmland itself, Right to Farm laws attempt to preserve the agricultural practices and enhance farm viability.\n\nLocal laws represent support for farming practices by a community and are often so more refined and clearer than state laws; they typically define the extent of protection farmers actually receive from nuisance suits and inappropriate regulation.\n\nRight to farm laws vary across the nation. They are intended to bolster the legitimacy of agricultural concerns, defend farmers rights without undue outside interference, and minimize or resolve public and private land use conflicts. In a broader sense the notion originally referred to relief from all kinds of undue interference, usually involving legal interpretations focused on nuisance issues such as noise, odors, environmental, visual, farm technology, etc. This is partly because it is a modification of the common law doctrine of nuisance. Common law nuisances are seen as private or public nuisances. A public nuisance impairs the health, safety, morals, and comfort of the general community without necessarily harming particular property rights in any kind way. A private nuisance unreasonably interferes with the use and enjoyment of another's land.\n\nFor a nuisance that the law will provide a remedy, there must he a substantial and unreasonable interference with the property interest being asserted. The interference can be negligent or intentional. For instance in the duties of farm operations, an action constituting a nuisance will be deemed intentional even if it is unintended if it is an easily likely consequence of the farmer's otherwise protected farming activities. The drifting of sprayed farm pesticides onto a neighbor's land is considered an intentional nuisance even though this particular result is unintended.\n\nRight-to-farm policies vary at different policy levels, resulting in inconsistent interpretations regarding what constitutes an 'agrarian district' or 'proper' agrarian practice. Government officials may intervene and eact such laws for resource preservation or municipal management purposes, but states and their respective localities are usually left to their own devices. In New York, the NYSDAM (New York State Department of Agriculture & Markets) evaluates nuisance lawsuits on a case-by-case basis. As per §308 of New York's Right-To-Farm Statute, farm owners and operators are protected from private nuisance suits \"provided such agricultural practice constitutes a sound agricultural practice pursuant to an opinion issued upon request by the commissioner\". Further, New York's policy does not protect against damages for personal injury or wrongful death claims, nor does it apply to public nuisances. Note that this policy definition may influence stakeholders to obtain farmland in states where their interests are protected by that state's respective right-to-farm law.\n\nThe laws were developed in the 1970s as a response to suburban encroachment on agricultural land. The concern was that as farmland was converted to suburban developments, the new residents would bring lawsuits against the pre-existing farms complaining about agricultural noise, dust, and other nuisances. The legal costs to defend themselves would tend to push farmers out of business, and the trend toward urbanization would accelerate. The laws were created as a way to protect small farmers from these lawsuits and thereby preserve the open space that made the communities attractive in the first place. Massachusetts passed the first right to farm law in 1979.\n\nIn 1979, Pilesgrove Township, New Jersey enacted the state's first right-to-farm law, protecting farming as a \"natural right hereby ordained to exist as a permitted use everywhere in the Township of Pilesgrove.\"\n\nBy 2015, every state has a similar law, but the details can vary.\n\nThe utilization of right to farm policies for corporate agriculture can be considered a 'wicked problem'. These problems are shaped by \"dynamic social and political factors as well as biophysical complexities\", and an array of local, state, and government stakeholders. These diverse actors result in a high degree of variability in terms of defining what is protected under respective right to farm laws. Thus, although the initial intention of such policies was to preserve the nation's agrarian roots and support the small-scale farmer, potential for misappropriation exists. Public sentiment expresses concern that the literature in these policies may prevent localities and states from regulating any number of agriculture based issues, essentially grant corporations immunity from environmental and ecological consequences resulting from their practices. In 2014, the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC)—a Koch-brothers organization which writes legislation on behalf of major multi-billion dollar corporations such as ExxonMobil, Pfizer, AT&T, SAP SE, and State Farm Insurance, among others—financially backed Missouri's Right-to-Farm amendment (Amendment 1), fueling further controversy that Right-to-Farm laws are being enacted to assist corporate agriculture, not small family-owned farms and the traditional farming practices used by small farm owners. In November 2016, Oklahoma voters defeated a Right-to-Farm bill (State Question 777) which garnered just 39.7 percent of the vote. State Question 777 was heavily backed by the Oklahoma Farm Bureau and by voters in the Oklahoma panhandle where the giant multinational agribusiness Seaboard Corporation has a pork production plant.\n\n"}
{"id": "523202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523202", "title": "Rootless cosmopolitan", "text": "Rootless cosmopolitan\n\nRootless cosmopolitan (, \"bezrodnyi kosmopolit\") was a pejorative Soviet euphemism widely used during Soviet anti-Semitic campaign of 1948–1953, which culminated in the \"exposure\" of the non-existent Doctors' plot. The term \"rootless cosmopolitan\" referred mostly to Jewish intellectuals, as an accusation in their lack of patriotism, i.e., lack of full allegiance to the Soviet Union. The campaign against \"rootless cosmopolitans\" began in 1946, when Joseph Stalin in his speech in Moscow attacked writers who were ethnic Jews. The expression was coined in 19th century by Russian literary critic Vissarion Belinsky to describe writers who lacked Russian national character.\n\nAfter World War II, the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee (JAC) grew increasingly influential to the post-Holocaust Soviet Jewry, and was accepted as its representative in the West. As its activities sometimes contradicted official Soviet policies (see \"The Black Book of Soviet Jewry\" as an example), it became a nuisance to Soviet authorities. The Central Auditing Commission of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union concluded that instead of focusing its attention on the \"struggle against forces of international reaction\", the JAC continued the line of the Bund—a dangerous designation, since former Bund members were to be \"purged\".\n\nDuring a meeting with Soviet intelligentsia in 1946, Stalin voiced his concerns about recent developments in Soviet culture, which later would materialize in the \"battle against cosmopolitanism\" (see Zhdanov Doctrine).\nRecently, a dangerous tendency seems to be seen in some of the literary works emanating under the pernicious influence of the West and brought about by the subversive activities of the foreign intelligence. Frequently in the pages of Soviet literary journals works are found where Soviet people, builders of communism are shown in pathetic and ludicrous forms. The positive Soviet hero is derided and inferior before all things foreign and cosmopolitanism that we all fought against from the time of Lenin, characteristic of the political leftovers, is many times applauded. In the theater it seems that Soviet plays are pushed aside by plays from foreign bourgeois authors. The same thing is starting to happen in Soviet films.\n\nIn 1946 and 1947, the new campaign against cosmopolitanism affected Soviet scientists, such as the physicist Pyotr Kapitsa and the president of the Belorussian Academy of Sciences Anton Zhebrak. They along with other scientists were denounced for contacts with their Western colleagues and support for \"bourgeois science\".\n\nIn 1947, many literary critics were accused of \"kneeling before the West\", as well as anti-patriotism and cosmopolitanism. For example, the campaign targeted those who studied the works of Alexander Veselovsky, the founder of Russian comparative literature, which was described as a \"bourgeois cosmopolitan direction in literary criticism\".\n\nIn January 1948, the JAC's head, the popular actor and world-famous public figure Solomon Mikhoels, was killed by the Soviet Ministry of Internal Affairs on the Politburo's orders; his murder was framed as a car accident where a truck ran over him as he was taking a walk on a narrow road. This was followed by eventual arrests of JAC's members and its termination.\n\nThe USSR voted for the 1947 United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine and in May 1948, it recognized the establishment of the state of Israel there, subsequently supporting it with weapons (via Czechoslovakia, in defiance of the embargo) in the 1948 Arab–Israeli war. Many Soviet Jews felt inspired and sympathetic towards Israel and sent thousands of letters to the (still formally existing) JAC with offers to contribute to or even volunteer for Israel's defence.\n\nIn September 1948, the first Israeli ambassador to the USSR, Golda Meir, arrived in Moscow. Huge enthusiastic crowds (estimated 50,000) gathered along her path and in and around Moscow synagogue when she attended it for Yom Kippur and Rosh Hashanah. These events corresponded in time with a visible upsurge of Russian nationalism orchestrated by official propaganda, the increasingly hostile Cold War and the realization by the Soviet leadership that Israel had chosen the Western option. Domestically, Soviet Jews were being considered a security liability for their international connections, especially to the United States, and growing national awareness.\n\nWith United States becoming the opponent of the Soviet Union by the end of 1948, the USSR switched sides in the Arab–Israeli conflict and began supporting the Arabs against Israel, first politically and later also militarily. For his part David Ben-Gurion declared support for the United States in the Korean War, despite opposition from left-wing Israeli parties. From 1950 on, Israeli–Soviet relations were an inextricable part of the Cold War—with ominous implications for Soviet Jews supporting Israel, or perceived as supporting it.\n\nA new stage of the campaign opened on January 28, 1949, when an article entitled \"About one anti-patriotic group of theatre critics\" appeared in the newspaper \"Pravda\", an official organ of the Central Committee of the Communist Party:\nAn anti-patriotic group has developed in theatrical criticism. It consists of followers of bourgeois aestheticism. They penetrate our press and operate most freely in the pages of the magazine, \"Teatr\", and the newspaper, \"Sovetskoe iskusstvo\". These critics have lost their sense of responsibility to the people. They represent a rootless cosmopolitanism which is deeply repulsive and inimical to Soviet man. They obstruct the development of Soviet literature; the feeling of national Soviet pride is alien to them.\n\nAccording to the journalist Masha Gessen, a concise definition of rootless cosmopolitan appeared in an issue of \"Voprosy istorii\" (\"The Issues of History\") in 1949: \"The rootless cosmopolitan ... falsifies and misrepresents the worldwide historical role of the Russian people in the construction of socialist society and the victory over the enemies of humanity, over German fascism in the Great Patriotic War.\" Gessen states that the term used for \"Russian\" is an exclusive term that means ethnic Russians only, and so she concludes that \"any historian who neglected to sing the praises of the heroic ethnic Russians ... was a likely traitor\".\n\nThe campaign included a crusade in the state-controlled mass media to expose literary pseudonyms of Jewish writers by putting their real names in parentheses in order to reveal to the public that they were ethnic Jews. \n\nThirteen Soviet Jewish poets and writers, five of them members of Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, were executed in the Lubyanka Prison in Moscow on August 12, 1952.\n\nAs a result of the campaign, scores of Soviet Jews were fired from their jobs. In 1947, Jews constituted 18 per cent of Soviet scientific workers, but by 1970 this number declined to 7 per cent, which can still be compared to about 3 to 4 per cent of the Soviet population at that time.\n\nAnything Jewish became suppressed by the Soviet authorities, and even the word \"Jew\" disappeared from the media. Many were shocked to find a Yiddish verse (sung by Mikhoels) cut out from the famous lullaby in the Soviet classic movie \"Circus\" (\"Tsirk\", 1936), known by heart by millions and still very popular in post-war Soviet cinemas.\n\nA historian of Zionism, Walter Laqueur, noted: \"When, in the 1950s under Stalin, the Jews of the Soviet Union came under severe attack and scores were executed, it was under the banner of anti-Zionism rather than anti-Semitism, which had been given a bad name by Adolf Hitler.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11209440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11209440", "title": "Safeguarding", "text": "Safeguarding\n\nSafeguarding is a term used in the United Kingdom and Ireland to denote measures to protect the health, well-being and human rights of individuals, which allow people — especially children, young people and vulnerable adults — to live free from abuse, harm and neglect.\n\nAny child can be hurt, put at risk of harm or abused, regardless of age, ethnicity, gender or religion. The UK government has enacted legislation and published guidance to protect children from maltreatment, prevent the impairment of children's health or development, ensure children grow up in circumstances consistent with the provision of safe and effective care, and enable children and young people to have the best outcomes. Responsibility for these aims is deemed to lie with everyone who comes into contact with children and families.\n\nAdults in need of safeguarding help are generally elderly and frail, and either live alone or in care homes with little support from family members. They may have mental health issues, a physical disability or learning difficulties. Professional carers ideally focus on empowerment, protection, prevention, proportionate responses, partnership and accountability to safeguard vulnerable adults. In Birmingham and the West Midlands, the term 'adults at risk' is preferred over 'vulnerable adults'.\n\nSafeguarding children is a concept that reaches beyond child protection to incorporate the additional aims of preventing the harm of children’s health and development, ensuring children are growing up in circumstances consistent with the provision of safe and effective care.\n\nThe UK Government has defined the term ‘safeguarding children’ as:\n\"‘The process of protecting children from abuse or neglect, preventing impairment of their health and development, and ensuring they are growing up in circumstances consistent with the provision of safe and effective care that enables children to have optimum life chances and enter adulthood successfully.’\"\n\nThis shift from traditional child protection to a more all-encompassing approach was influenced by the first Joint Chief Inspectors’ safeguarding children report (2002) and the Victoria Climbié Inquiry (2003). The Every Child Matters programme outlined in the Children Act 2004 formalised these changes in approach into a legislative framework. Every Child Matters aimed to improve outcomes for children in 5 key areas; being healthy, staying safe, enjoying and achieving, making a positive contribution and achieving economic well-being.\n\nTo help achieve this the Act made a number of institutional changes including the abolition of Area Child Protection Committees that had been deemed to have performed poorly in some areas by the Joint Chief Inspectors’ 2002 report and the formation of the multi-agency Local Safeguarding Children Boards (LSCBs). These consisted of representatives from local partner agencies such as housing, health, police and probation services. The LSCBs were charged with co-ordinating the functions of all partner agencies in relation to safeguarding children. They carry out this function by, among other things, agreeing the contribution of all member agencies and deciding how these pooled funds should be allocated. In addition they are responsible for commissioning independent Serious Case Reviews and training member agency staff in safeguarding children best practice. The Act also placed a duty on all agencies to make arrangements to safeguard and promote the welfare of children \n\nIn 2006 the government released Working Together to Safeguard Children, which set out the ways in which organizations and individuals should work together to safeguard and promote the wellbeing of children. In 2010 this was superseded by Working Together to Safeguard Children (2010) which expanded the focus on interagency working and took into account the recommendations of Lord Lamings 2008 progress report The Protection of Children in England which suggested it was imperative that frontline professionals get to know children as individuals.\n\nIn 2014 a High Court judge said that it appeared to be a practice \"widespread across the country\" that children were taken into foster care based on social services reports which family courts \"cut and pasted\" into their own rulings, without giving the parents the opportunity to view the reports or respond to them.\n\nThe Care Act 2014 introduced new legislation regarding safeguarding vulnerable adults. The Act sets out a legal framework for how local authorities and other organisations should react to suspicion of abuse or neglect.\n\nA key part of safeguarding work is assessment.\n\nProfessionals conducting assessments of families where neglect is taking place are said sometimes to make the error of not asking the right questions, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48307951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48307951", "title": "Simpel-Fonetik Method of Writing", "text": "Simpel-Fonetik Method of Writing\n\nSimpel-Fonetik is a system of English-language spelling reform that simplifies the reading, writing, and pronunciation of words in English. It was created by Allan Kiisk, a multi-lingual (English, German, Latin, and Estonian) professor of engineering.\n\nBased on phonetic languages including Estonian, Finnish, and Hawaiian, it removes common difficulties of learning to communicate in English by correlating one unique letter per sound and one sound per letter.\n\nAccording to Noah Webster, \"In a perfect language, every simple sound would be expressed by a distinct character; and no character would have more than one sound\".\n\nSimpel-Fonetik writing is based on the following principles:\n\n1. Each letter represents only one spoken sound\n\n2. There is a letter for each basic sound in the English language\n\n3. Double letters (two adjacent identical letters) represent long vowels and strong consonants.\n\nThere are 24 letters: 17 consonants and 7 vowels.\n\nMost of the letters are from the current English Alphabet: A B D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Z. Two letters are new: Ä Ö.\n\nThere are 4 letters in the English Alphabet that are no longer needed: C Q X Y.\n\nBelow are examples of words that show the sound for each letter.\nThe Star (H. G. Wells)\n\nIt was on the först dei of the nuu jiir thät the ännaunsment was meid, olmoust saimulteiniosli from thri obsöörvatoris, thät the moushon of the plänet Neptuun, the autermoust of ool the plänets thät wiil öbaut the san, häd bikam veri errätik. Ö retardeishon in its velossiti häd biin saspekted in Disember. Then ö feint, rimout spek of lait was diskaverd in the riidshon of the pörtöörbd plänet. At föörst this did not koos eni greit eksaitment. Saientifik piipl, hauever, faund the intelidshens rimaarkabl inaf iiven bifor it bikeim noun thät the nuu bodi was räpidli grouing laardsher änd braiter, änd thät its moushon was kwait different from the orderli progres of the plänets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292230", "title": "Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice", "text": "Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice\n\nSkinheads Against Racial Prejudice (SHARP) are anti-racist skinheads who oppose neo-fascists and other political racists, particularly if those racists identify themselves as skinheads. SHARPs draw inspiration from the biracial origins of the skinhead subculture, and resent what they see as the hijacking of the \"skinhead\" name by white power skinheads (sometimes deriding them as \"boneheads\"). Beyond the opposition to racism, there is no official SHARP political ideology.\n\nThe SHARP logo is based on the logo of Trojan Records, which originally mainly released black Jamaican ska, rocksteady, and reggae artists. Some variants of this design also incorporate the checkerboard motif of 2 Tone Records, known for its multiracial roster of ska- and reggae-influenced bands.\n\nThe way in which SHARPs dress is to project an image that looks hard and smart, in an evolving continuity with style ideals established in the middle-to-late 1960s.\nThis style and demeanour originated from the UK, growing out of the pre-existent Mod movement, taking cues and influences from Jamaican ska and Rude Boy culture. They remain true to the style's original purpose of enjoying life, clothes, attitude and music. This does not include blanket hatred of other people based on their skin colour.\n\nThe original skinhead subculture started in the United Kingdom in late 1960s, and had heavy British mod and Jamaican rude boy influences, including a love for ska and soul music. Although some skinheads (including black skinheads) had engaged in \"Paki bashing\" (random violence against Pakistanis and other South Asian immigrants), skinheads were not associated with an organized racist political movement in the 1960s. However, in the late 1970s, a skinhead revival in the UK included a sizable white nationalist faction, involving organizations such as the National Front, British Movement, Rock Against Communism and in the late eighties Blood and Honour. Because of this, the mainstream media began to label the whole skinhead identity as neo-fascist. This new white power skinhead movement then spread to other countries, including the United States.\n\nSkinheads Against Racial Prejudice was started in 1987 in New York as a response by suburban adolescents to the bigotry of the growing White Power Movement in 1982. Traditional skinheads (Trads) formed as a way to show that the skinhead subculture was not based on racism and political extremism. André Schlesinger (and his Oi! band The Press) and Jason O'Toole (vocalist of the hardcore punk group Life's Blood) were among SHARP's early supporters. In 1989, Roddy Moreno of the Welsh Oi! band The Oppressed visited New York City and met a few SHARP members. On his return to the United Kingdom, he designed a new SHARP logo based on the Trojan Reggae labels design and started promoting SHARP ideals to British skinheads.\nSHARP then spread throughout Europe and in other continents. In the UK and other European countries, the SHARP attitude was more based on the individual than on organized groups. In the 2000s, SHARP is thought to have become more of an individual designation than an official organization.\n\nMany people may confuse SHARP members with racists, since their appearance is superficially similar: shaved heads, denim, lace up boots, button-down shirts and suspenders (called \"braces\"). One glib differentiation that might be imagined to separate the two would be music interests. SHARPs may listen to culturally influenced music such as: Soul, Reggae, and Ska; but also punk, Hardcore and Oi!. Racist skinheads would disagree with some or all of these musical choices; but may listen to Punk, Hardcore, Oi!, as well as Nazi Punk and National Socialist Black Metal.\n\nIn a deliberate attempt to reject the growing racist subculture, since the early eighties SHARPs promulgated an anti-racist identity through small amateur fanzine publications like \"Hard As Nails\". During the pre-Internet era, these publication established a network of likeminded individuals with similar musical and stylistic attitudes, who considered anti-racism an indispensable part of a living skinhead scene.\nAnother strand of the same Trad revival sought to affirm explicit links with the foundation of Mod subculture and its apolitical, black-positive standards of fashion. The scooter scene, with its runs and Northern Soul dances, had never gone entirely away; and in the post-Punk rediscovery of the past, under the influence of The Jam and Quadrophenia, it seemed a fresh and self-renewing direction for skinhead itself to go in.\n\nBy 1989, this Trad scene was ripe for the injection of a cultural influence like SHARP, much as its own appearance had been symptomatic of an American internal revolution in US skinheads' attitudes to race and their own subculture.\n\nAn outgrowth of SHARP, Red and Anarchist Skinheads (RASH), formed in 1993 against anti-gay sentiment in the nonracist skinhead community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41236432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41236432", "title": "Sozialistischer Schutzbund (Germany)", "text": "Sozialistischer Schutzbund (Germany)\n\nSozialistischer Schutzbund ('Socialist Protection League', abbreviated SSB) was a paramilitary formation in Weimar Germany, linked to the Socialist Workers' Party of Germany (SAPD). SSB was active between 1931 and 1933. The organization mainly acted as guards at election campaign meetings. SSB also guarded offices of the party and the Socialist Youth League of Germany. The SSB wore a uniform with blue shirts, red armbands and dark blue caps. SSB earned a degree of respect for its discipline.\n\nSSB was formed by members of the \"Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold\". At the time of the founding of the organization, the SSB had some 100 members. SSB made its first public appearance in Zwickau on 8 November 1931. Some 500 SSB members paraded through the city. On 6 December 1931 a SSB march with 500 participants took place.\n\nIn 1932 the Communist Party of Germany (Opposition) (KPD(O)) dissident Karl Borromäus Frank joined SAPD, and was appointed as the national chief of SSB. Frank was expelled from the party later the same year.\n"}
{"id": "55672711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55672711", "title": "The Association to Stop Racism Against Blacks", "text": "The Association to Stop Racism Against Blacks\n\nThe Association to Stop Racism Against Blacks () is a private organization founded in Japan in 1988. Based at Sakai, Osaka, the association is known for causing publishers around Japan to suspend from printing Japanese localized versions of the picture book \"The Story of Little Black Sambo\".\n\nThe organization was initially formed by a couple, Toshiji Arita and Kimiko Arita living in Sakai, Osaka together with their 9-year-old son, Hajima Arita, on August 11, 1988. Kimiko Arita was the association's chairman and Kimiko Arita was the club's vice chairman. Hajime Arita was their treasurer. Initially they were the only members of the association, its membership increased to 135 as of 1992 February and 225 as of 1995 December. There is no report of recent activity from the organization.\n\nIn July 1988, Washington Post published a report titled \"Old Black Stereotypes Find New Lives in Japan\", which describes the design of a Sambo and Banana doll by Sanrio, as well as mannequins manufactured by Yamato Mannequin which were found in department stores, as discriminatory. Sanrio immediately ceased the doll's production and recalled all the dolls. However, after reading the report, the Arita family agreed with the position of the article that such an expression can be considered as discriminatory, and as a result they went to collect goods that depict black people from shops and start investigating how they are being depicted.\n\nActivity of the association mainly include sending opposition letters against characters, comic, animation, publishers and corporate, for expressions that are being considered by the association as discriminatory depiction against black people, and occasionally include other racial discrimination.\n\nThe association have achieved following result from their achievement\n\nAs a result of their activities, stereotypical depictions of black people in media have become a taboo, author, publishers and editors started to impose self-censorship onto their works. It have been stated that the association's activity have caused black people being censored from appearing on commercial media.\n\nAlso, as their protest caused publishers stopped printing some older words, they have drawn considerable amount of criticism from the society. Their demand have also been seen as infringement on freedom of expression.\n\nThese requests are not considered illegal because \"infringement on freedom of expression\" usually only applies to action pressed by authority or government. On top of it, the association also launched complaints against works that have minimal appearances of black people. Some works are able to survive their complaints by refusal to comply with their request, but in some other cases, these complaints have caused authors to seal and suspend production of their works.\n\nIn 1989 April volume of \"Buraku Liberate\", the deputy chairman of the association wrote that \"The picture book is just a piece of merchandise that discriminates against black people. No matter how well known the book is among the general public and no matter how valuable it is literature, that still does not constitute an excuse against the fact.\" which maintain their position without allowing any compromises. However, in response to interview by Nishinihon Shimbun, the deputy chairman tries to claim they don't want to extinguish the picture book. But, when publishers are trying to discuss the incident with them, they have rejected to participate in such discussion. As of 2014, there is no public opinion available from them in any form of public communication channels like website or social network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32563707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32563707", "title": "The Vigilantes", "text": "The Vigilantes\n\nThe Vigilantes was a twentieth-century American publishing syndicate. Their pamphlets and newspapers were distributed with the intention of inspiring patriotism and Allied involvement in World War I. The membership was largely composed of men, who dominated its leadership, though much of the content was produced by women and appeared pseudonymously as the work of \"the Vigilantes\". A contemporary review noted the \"breathless cries of song wrung mostly from the hearts of our women.\"\n\nThe preface to a poetry anthology, published as Vigilantes Books: \"Fifes And Drums: A Collection of Poems of America at War\", gave the following remarks on the authors' works:\n\nThese poems, written under the immediate stress of great events by those who have banded themselves together under the name of The Vigilantes, furnish a striking record of the emotional reactions of the American people during the fortnight preceding and the six weeks following the declaration of war...\n"}
{"id": "44379844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379844", "title": "Useful Jew", "text": "Useful Jew\n\nThe term useful Jew was used in various historical contexts, typically describing a Jewish person useful in implementing an official authority's policy, sometimes by oppressing other Jews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20150595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20150595", "title": "Vice President of the Maldives", "text": "Vice President of the Maldives\n\nVice President of the Maldives is the holder of a public office created by the Constitution of the Maldives. The current office-holder is Faisal Naseem, since 17 November 2018.\n\nIbrahim Muhammad Didi was the first Vice President, and was an appointee, while Mohammed Waheed Hassan was the first elected Vice President. \n\nThe Vice President is the first in the line of succession to the Presidency in the event of the President's death, resignation, or removal from office.\n\nThe post of the Vice President are described in article 112 of the constitution as follows:\n\nArticles 117 and 122 then goes on to describe the Responsibilities of the Vice President.\n\nAs a result of these responsibilities, the Office of the Vice President and its duties are determined by the President. Under the current government, President Nasheed has charged the Vice President's office with implementing a plan to become Carbon Neutral by 2020, as well as to tackle a drug problem which affects more than half of the youth population.\n\nThe first Vice President of the Maldives was Ibrahim Muhammad Didi of Rayyithunge Muthagaddim Party, who was \"appointed\" to the position by President Mohamed Amin Didi (1 January 1953 to 2 September 1953). On the terms that the vacancy of the office of the President leads to the succession of the Vice President to presidency, Ibraahim Didi also served as acting president from 2 September 1953 to 7 March 1954 after the banishment of Mohamed Amin Didi.\n\nIbrahim Nasir appointed several of his cabinet ministers as Vice Presidents following the dismissal of Prime Minister Ahmed Zaki. \n\nThe Maldives did not have Vice Presidents during the rule of Muhammad Fareed Didi and the Presidency of Maumoon Abdul Gayoom.\n\nUnder the new constitution created the constitutional assembly and ratified by President Gayoom on 7 August 2008, the post of Vice President was once again created with the duties described above.\n\nUnder the new constitution, Dr. Mohammed Waheed Hassan of the Gaumee Itthihaad Party became the first \"elected\" Vice President of Maldives and was sworn into office on November 11, 2008. Mohamed Nasheed was elected into office as the President of the Maldives and together they effectively ended the 30 year rule of then Asia's longest serving ruler President Gayoom.\n\nDr. Waheed was the senior most Maldivian in the United Nations when he retired from it in June 2008, in order to return to the Maldives and become politically active. While in the UN, Dr. Waheed was the head of UNICEF for South Asia, Afghanistan, Yemen, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Turkmenistan. Dr. Waheed was the Third Maldivian to receive a PhD having done so from the prestigious Stanford University, having specialized in International Development.\n\nHe has been involved in politics in Maldives since 1989 when we won a Parliamentary seat with the highest number of votes recorded up to that point. However, he was forced out of the country after having pursued a bill on human rights that was not looked favored upon by the administration at the time. Dr. Waheed then spent 16 years working for UNICEF.\n\nDr. Waheed is currently married to Ilham Hussain and has three children. Their eldest daughter Widhadh (32) is an architect and owns an IT firm in California. Their second daughter Fidha (29)is a PhD student in East West psychology at the California Institute of Integral Studies, and their son Salim Waheed (23) is in his final year at Stanford University, studying Political Science.\n\nThe oath of office of the Vice President is described verbtim in the Maldives constitution.\n\n\"I, …(name of person)…, do swear in the name of Almighty Allah that I will respect the religion of Islam, that I will uphold the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and the fundamental rights of the Maldivian citizens, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Republic of Maldives, and will discharge the duties and responsibilities of the office of Vice President honestly and faithfully in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Maldives.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30735540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30735540", "title": "Úlfljótr", "text": "Úlfljótr\n\nÚlfljótr brought law to Iceland and is regarded by some as Iceland's first \"lawspeaker\". In around 927-930 AD Úlfljótr was sent to Norway by a group of chieftains to study law and culture and bring back to Iceland sufficient understanding to help establish Iceland's legal framework and form of government. And while he was in Norway, where he stayed for around three years, Grimur Geitskor, Úlfljótr's half-brother, made a survey of Iceland to find the best place for the establishment of the Althing. Úlfljótr is commemorated with the first law enacted at the Alðing, Úlfljót's Law, with the Lake Úlfljótsvatn and by the Úlfljótur Law Review.\n\n"}
