{"id": "40150345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40150345", "title": "56th government of Turkey", "text": "56th government of Turkey\n\nThe 56th government of Turkey (11 January 1999 – 28 May 1999) was a minority government led by Bülent Ecevit of Democratic Left Party (DSP).\nThe election results of 1995 necessitated a series of coalition governments, all of which were unstable. Finally, Bülent Ecevit, the leader of DSP, was asked to form a minority government to serve as a caretaker government until new elections. Although DSP was the fourth party measured by seats, the others promised to support his government without formally participating in it. \n\nThe government ended because of the elections held on 18 April 1999.\n"}
{"id": "16755777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16755777", "title": "Advisory board", "text": "Advisory board\n\nAn advisory board is a body that provides non-binding strategic advice to the management of a corporation, organization, or foundation. The informal nature of an advisory board gives greater flexibility in structure and management compared to the board of directors. Unlike the board of directors, the advisory board does not have authority to vote on corporate matters or bear legal fiduciary responsibilities. Many new or small businesses choose to have advisory boards in order to benefit from the knowledge of others, without the expense or formality of the board of directors.\n\nThe function of an advisory board is to offer assistance to enterprises with anything from marketing to managing human resources to influencing the direction of regulators. Advisory boards are composed of accomplished experts offering innovative advice and dynamic perspectives. Meeting quarterly or biannually, boards can provide strategic direction, guide quality improvement, and assess program effectiveness.\n\nEntrepreneurs, especially from startup companies or small business may not want to dilute their control of their business by establishing a board of directors with formal responsibilities and authorities. Thus, an advisory board may be a more suitable solution to entrepreneurs who want access to high-quality advice and network in the industry. Advisory board, as an external group, could also provide non-biased information and advice to entrepreneurs.\n\nAdvisory boards can be implemented in various different areas, including science, medicine, technology, editorial policy, citizen participation, and other topics.\n\nSource: \n\nThe main reason to create an advisory board is to seek expertise outside of the company. Advisory board members should provide the company with knowledge, understanding and strategic thinking of the industry or management of the company.\n\nCompanies should seek advisory board members whose qualities complement the existing board of directors and not mask gaps in knowledge or skill in the main board. An advisory board strengthens the existing board, but does not interfere with authorities of the existing board. The former editor of The Economist, also an advisory board member, once said, “They (advisory boards) are there to give focus to or sometimes challenge research and intelligence work being done in the company, thus avoiding groupthink and giving direction on big picture issues.”.\n\nThere are two key questions to be asked when creating and operating an advisory board. The first question is who is trying to achieve what from an advisory board. The second question is how the business of the board should be conducted. The following issues need to be addressed.\n\nThe type of advisory board members should be determined by the nature of what is sought and expected from them by the enterprise. Advisory board members should have distinctive knowledge on different aspects of business such as marketing, product development, sales techniques that are of use to the directors.\n\nA lack of definition in “what is sought from the advisory board” or “what sort of advice is to be sought of” would lead to a disorganized board, which eventually could lead to an advisory board that provide less value per dollar or hour invested than a well-mandated one. Eventually, it could result in a waste of resources and time for the enterprise and the advisory board members.\n\nThe advisory board must determine what the focus of the committee is, whether it is a broad focus or a narrow one on a specific product feature. Individuals in an advisory board should share a common goal or similar interests.\n\nSize of an advisory board influences the efficiency of delivering ongoing information and effectiveness of organizing board meetings. A large advisory board may result in managerial issues. Therefore, it is recommended that an advisory board begin with the advisory board leader, and grow from a fairly small size to its ultimate number. Group dynamics suggests the maximum size for an advisory board is eight members, which takes into account of the need for enterprise people and other facilitators at meetings. Some advisory board’s mandate may require more significant representation of a specific and large number of constituencies.\n\nThe functioning of an advisory board is affected significantly by how effectively the group’s activities are organized and directed. A fixed meeting should be held regularly (monthly, annually or other) and advisory board members must be well informed of the purpose and background information of the meeting in order for them to provide valuable advice.\n\nA corollary should be provided to advisory board members, in which it should be of an appropriate length, organized, comprehensible and informative. While it should be concise, it should provide enough details to provide advisory board members a suitable foundation for them to advise on the business. Confidentiality of the information discussed in the meeting shall be considered.\n\nA skilled facilitator, administrator or corporate secretary is required to organize schedules of advisory board meetings and meeting materials. The facilitator or chair of the board should be committed and aware of time management for the meeting. An agenda could improve the organization and time management for the meeting.\n\nAdvisory board members could be appointed to specific terms i.e. one, two or three years so that it ensures them to actively commit to the company and prevent them to get too comfortable with their positions. Term of membership is also important when it comes to expansion of the board; term of membership ensures that the size of the advisory board remains efficient and manageable.\n\nAdvisory board members serve an enterprise for a range of reasons, from personal loyalty to direct compensation.\n\nThe benefits of having an advisory board over board of directors may include the following:\nMultinational companies have local companies running their business in a particular foreign jurisdiction for lower costs e.g. tax, price of raw materials, and organizational benefits. However, giving authority to an outside group of directors in the local company may increase risks and instability of the multinational corporation. Since an advisory board can operate in a different location, with different cultural and business norms, in a different language, multinational companies may choose to have an advisory board instead of a localized board of directors in order to avoid loss of control.\n\nCompanies may choose to have an advisory board before they have a board of directors. The development of an effective board of directors requires a group of individuals with good chemistry and has the combination of appropriate skills to propel the business. Having an advisory board allows companies to assess the commitments and capabilities of each individual and observe the chemistry between them before appointing them to a board of directors.\n\nA large board of directors may grow to an unmanageable size where organizational complexity and communication breakdown may occur, leading to ineffective and inefficient function of the board. A smaller advisory board, without the complexity of authority involved in board of directors, may work more effectively compared to a board of directors that grows in size as the corporation grows.\n\nThe complexity and speed of enterprises often make it difficult to seek advice on any particular topic. Enterprises may also find building trust in any person or group to provide on-going and meaningful guidance difficult. An advisory board can then provide the degree of consistency, longevity and background knowledge as advisory board members provide reliable advice on particular issues. Advisory board members receive compensation for committing to their positions. This gives incentives to advisory board members to provide quality advice and ensure that a request for assistance is taken formally.\n\nExecutives can express partially defined or tentative view to an advisory board since advisory board’s sole purpose is to provide advice. This allows them to “test-drive options” before they face the board of directors which demands definitive and assertive business decisions. The board of directors assesses the CEO and establishes his or her compensation. While an advisory board may induce change in the company for the benefits of the company, a board of directors inducing change in the company could suggest a lack of confidence in the senior management team. This imposes great pressure on senior executives and could become a barrier for senior executives to express their issues and seek advice from the board. Thus, an advisory board could be a ‘safe harbor’ for senior executives to seek advice and test business options.\n\nDirectors and Assistant Directors are still required to bring any changes to policy or financial matters to the board for direction. No directors or assistant directors are to make any changes without board approval.\n\nAn enterprise may need advice on a particular aspect of its business (such as marketing, product direction, customer service or contact network expansion). While board of directors need to take into account of all aspects and go through a series of administrative proceedings e.g. formal approvals, ratification, an advisory board can focus directly on a particular issue and give advice.\n\nThe drawbacks of having an advisory board instead of a board of directors may include the following:\nAn advisory board deals with a more narrow range of issues and meet less often than board of directors. There is less commitment for advisory board members compared to directors in the board. This is reflected in the lower compensation advisory board members receive as compared to those in the board of directors. Nevertheless, the compensation for advisory board members depends on various factors, including return of investments, time, organization and cost.\n\nBoard of directors is exposed to a variety of legislated liabilities, fiduciary and other duties. Responsibilities include unpaid wages, unpaid taxes, environmental damage, etc. By subjecting directors to such liabilities and fiduciary, directors are forced to make decisions and establish policies in a way that minimizes risks. Whereas, an advisory board is not subjected to fiduciary duties or liabilities and therefore could influence the enterprise by providing risky advice.\n"}
{"id": "7626823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7626823", "title": "Alexander Sinton Secondary School", "text": "Alexander Sinton Secondary School\n\nAlexander Sinton Secondary School, also known as Alexander Sinton High School, is an English-medium school in Athlone, a suburb of Cape Town, South Africa. The school is located in the Cape Flats, an area designated as non-white under the Group Areas Act during apartheid. The school was involved in the anti-apartheid student uprisings of the 1970s and 1980s. Staff and students at the school made headlines when they barricaded the police into their school in September 1985. The following month, three youths were killed near the school by police officers who opened fire on protesters in the Trojan Horse Incident. It was the first school to be visited by Nelson Mandela after his release from prison. As of 2014, the school has 1,100 pupils, half boys and half girls. The school employs 40 teachers and six non-teaching staff.\nThe school was named for its benefactor Alexander Sinton, who bequeathed money to found the school in 1951.\n\nDuring the youth uprising of 1976 protesting the imposition of the Afrikaans language as a mandatory medium of instruction in schools, the students at the school and Belgravia High School nearby in Athlone boycotted classes on 16 August during a period that saw marches, random acts of arson and battles between students and the police. In 1976 Nabil (\"Basil\") Swart, a teacher at the school, was arrested after helping a student who had been shot during the protests. Swart was released on bail after being detained for a weekend.\n\nInternal resistance to apartheid intensified, and a state of emergency was declared in parts of the country in 1985. The Committee of 81, a student organisation representing coloured schools in the Western Cape which organised student boycotts and protests, held some meetings at the school in 1985. The school effectively stopped teaching from February and was officially closed on 6 September when the government ordered more than 400 schools to close as a result of civil unrest. Some teachers resigned their positions and others were confused as to their role. The Teachers' League of South Africa, a professional association for coloured teachers, encouraged its members not to resign for the sake of the children. Teachers decided to teach, but not to co-operate with the authorities.\n\nThe school defiantly re-opened on 17 September 1985 when the principal, Khalied Desai, led teachers, uniformed students and parents who sang protest songs. The police were aware of the students' plans, and arrived quickly. The students threw stones, built barricades and the police replied with armoured vehicles, tear gas, rubber bullets and the arrests of nearly 200 people. Teachers and parents supported the students and their protests against injustice. After the arrests were made, the police were surprised to find that they themselves were effectively prisoners, as the exits from the school were blocked by vehicles brought there by protesters outside the school. The police had difficulty taking away the people they had arrested. \"The New York Times\" noted that the action taken by coloured teachers and students at the school was remarkably different to the boycotts taking place at black schools. Swart was again jailed for two weeks in 1985 for helping to re-open the school.\n\nThe state of emergency was extended to include Cape Town on 25 October 1985, giving the police and army greater powers to deal with instability in the area. Swart was again jailed for eighteen months in 1986 for his involvement in the school unrest.\n\nOn 15 October 1985 three male youths, aged 11, 15 and 21, were killed by the police nearby in Belgravia Road in Athlone in what was called the Trojan Horse Incident. Students and activists had gathered where they regularly had battles with the police and were stoning vehicles. Most of the people in the crowd were from the school. Police officers who had been hidden in crates on board the back of a truck opened fire on stone-throwing protesters. The police had deliberately provoked the protesters to allow them to shoot – the truck was driven down the same road twice as the police did not get the anticipated reaction the first time, i.e. stones being thrown at them. A CBS television crew witnessed and filmed the incident and images thereof were broadcast to the world.\n\nAn inquest found that the police had behaved \"unreasonably\", but despite a private prosecution no sentences were imposed on the people involved. A Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearing was held into the incident in 1997, after the end of the apartheid era. A memorial marks the spot where the incident took place. It shows a silhouette of the Trojan Horse vehicle and the people who shot the three young people. The memorial also officially includes graffiti sprayed on the fence that includes the message \"Stop State Violence\".\n\nIn 2012, the then principal Fazil Parker was involved in a dispute with the Department of Basic Education after he was given late notice that his teachers needed to mark national exams. The teachers considered the request unreasonable and did not comply with it, resulting in Parker being summoned to a disciplinary hearing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8938137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8938137", "title": "Ananias of Adiabene", "text": "Ananias of Adiabene\n\nAnanias of Adiabene (; c. 15 BCE – c. 30 CE) was a Jewish merchant and mendicant proselytizer, probably of Hellenistic origin, who, in the opening years of the common era, was prominent at the court of Abinergaos I (Abennerig), king of Characene. He was instrumental in the conversion to Judaism of numerous native and foreign inhabitants of Charax Spasinu. This city, the capital of Characene, was situated at the confluence of the two arms of the Tigris and was at the time a great mercantile center.\n\nAmong Ananias' most prominent converts were several women of high position at the court, particularly the princess Symacho, the king's daughter. This princess married Izates bar Monobaz, a young prince who had been sent to Abennerig's court by his parents, Monobaz I and Helena, the rulers of Adiabene. Through his wife, Izates' attention was directed to Ananias, with whom he formed an acquaintance that eventually ripened into a strong attachment. Around the year 18 CE, Ananias won the prince over to the Jewish faith. Moreover, Izates was named as successor to the throne by Monobaz, who, in so doing, passed over his elder sons. Upon his accession (about 22), Izates, in order to show his genuine attachment to the new religion, declared his determination to undergo the rite of circumcision. Helena opposed this, fearing that the adoption of foreign ceremonies might arouse against the young king the indignation of his pagan subjects. Ananias, who had come to Adiabene with Izates, supported Helena's contention, arguing that such a step on the part of the king would endanger the life of his Jewish instructor, and, further, that circumcision was not vital to the fulfilment of the Jewish religion and the worship of God.\n\nIzates seemed convinced by the latter argument, until there came to his court another Jew, Eleazar, who, in contradistinction to Ananias' Hellenic leniency, was a rigorous legalist from Galilee. He persuaded Izates to undergo the rite. Ananias and Helena were strongly agitated when Izates disclosed his action, but the trouble they predicted did not immediately ensue. Whether Ananias made further converts in Izates' country is not stated.\n\nIn his book, \"James the Brother of Jesus,\" Robert Eisenman contends that this person is the same as the Biblical Ananias from the book of Acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "55143708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55143708", "title": "Antipodean Resistance", "text": "Antipodean Resistance\n\nAntipodean Resistance is a neo-Nazi hate group in Australia. The group, which makes use of Nazi symbols such as the Swastika and the Nazi salute, has explicitly called for the legalisation of the murder of Jewish people.\n\nAntipodean Resistance (AR) first formed on the Iron March website, which was a forum for neo-Nazis. Members of the website formed groups such as Atomwaffen Division and Antipodean Resistance.\n\nThe membership of the group is reported to be very small. The group is only open to young heterosexual white people, who are \"able to take a hit\" for their beliefs. Members assume a pseudonym in an attempt to remain anonymous. Media outlets have reported that Antipodean Resistance have organised secret radicalisation camps in remote forests.\nIn February 2018, Antipodean Resistance formed a women's branch, Antipodean Resistance Women's Alliance (ARWA).\n\nThe group has attracted attention for their Nazi-inspired vandalism in major cities in Australia. It has targeted schools in Melbourne with significant ethnic minority populations, placing posters carrying the message \"Keep Australia White\" along with racial slurs such as \"abo\", \"nigger\", and \"chink\", which were described as \"vile and disgusting\" by Victorian education minister James Merlino.\n\nThe group attracted international attention with a campaign of Chinese-language posters at universities threatening Chinese students with deportation.\n\nIn the lead-up to the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey the group targeted churches, universities and public places with homophobic propaganda linking same-sex marriage and paedophilia.\n\nThe account of the group was suspended by Twitter on 18 December 2017.\n\nIn December 2017, it was reported that the group's posters had been seen around Chippendale in Sydney.\n\nBanners have been dropped from bridges over highways by Antipodean Resistance calling for \"white revolution\".\n\nDuring April 2018 it was reported that the group's posters had been seen around Canberra.\n\nIn June 2018 it was reported in Melbourne that the group's posters were found on Chapel Street mocking Pride Month and calling gay people \"a walking disease\".\n\nSeveral counter-terrorism experts have suggested authorities should focus more on far-right extremists such as Antipodean Resistance. Anne Aly, the Labor MP has suggested that the group may turn to terrorism, stating \"For a terrorist attack to succeed, it really only takes one person.\" Dr Aly called for the group to be banned stating \"I would like to see some of these groups proscribed ... as terrorist and violent organisations.\"\n\nIt has been reported that ASIO, the Australian national security organisation, is monitoring the group whom they suggest are \"willing to use violence to further their own interests.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5637150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637150", "title": "Appleby (law firm)", "text": "Appleby (law firm)\n\nAppleby (previously Appleby Spurling & Kempe, Appleby Spurling Hunter and Appleby Hunter Bailhache) is an offshore legal services provider. It has offices in offshore locations including Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey, Mauritius and Seychelles as well as the financial centres of Hong Kong and Shanghai. It is referred to in the Paradise Papers, and included in the assemblage of law firms known as the offshore magic circle.\n\nThe original firm of Appleby was founded by Reginald Appleby (1865-1948) in Bermuda in 1898. Appleby had passed his final law exams in England in 1887 and had been in partnership with Reginald Gray (later Sir) attorney-general of Bermuda, from 1893 to 1897 in Bermuda as Gray & Appleby.\n\nIn 1938 Appleby and Dudley Spurling (later Sir) merged their practices to establish Appleby & Spurling. In 1949, that firm merged with William Kempe to become Appleby Spurling Kemp (or Kempe). Dudley Spurling was the senior partner of the merged firm until 1981. In 2004 they merged with Cayman Islands' law firm Hunter & Hunter and with Jersey based firm, Bailhache Labesse in September 2006.\n\nAppleby announced on 15 June 2008 that it was to merge with Isle of Man based Dickinson Cruickshank & Co., enabling it to become the largest offshore law firm in the world with 73 partners and 200 lawyers. In 2010, they opened an office in Guernsey. In 2012, they announced that they would be opening an office in Shanghai. In 2014, Appleby worked with the company Apple Inc. in a function similar to a general contractor to provide offshore offices on the island of Jersey in co-operation with the law firm Baker McKenzie.\n\nUntil 2016, Appleby operated in partnership with the corporate services provider Estera until Estera split to become independent.\n\nOn 24 October 2017, the firm confirmed that it was subject to a \"data security incident\" the previous year. Appleby is identified as the source of a 2017 leak of documents known as the Paradise Papers. In December 2017, the firm announced that it intended to sue the BBC and \"The Guardian\" newspaper over its reporting of the case. The Paradise Papers revealed that Appleby provided active client services to Mukhtar Ablyazov who at the time was charged in multiple jurisdictions for fraud and embezzlement of up to $10 billion from the bank he chaired.\n\nAppleby was ranked in Band 1 global-wide offshore in a 2015 client's guide to the legal profession. They have won multiple awards for its practice of offshore law.\n\n"}
{"id": "2890325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890325", "title": "Appraiser", "text": "Appraiser\n\nAn appraiser (from Latin \"appretiare\", \"to value\"), is one who determines the fair market value of property, real or personal. In England the business of an appraiser is usually combined with that of an auctioneer, while the word itself has a similar meaning to that of \"valuer.\"\n\nIn the United States, the most common usage relates to real estate and personal property appraisals, while the term is often used to describe a person specially appointed by a judicial or quasi-judicial authority to put a valuation on property, \"e.g.\" on the items of an inventory of the Tangible Property of an Estate (IRS law) of a deceased person or on land taken for public purposes by the right of eminent domain. Appraisers of imported goods and boards of general appraisers have extensive functions in administering the customs laws of the United States. Merchant appraisers are sometimes appointed temporarily under the revenue laws to value where there is no resident appraiser without holding the office of appraiser (U.S. Rev. Stats. § 2609).\n\n"}
{"id": "5867054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867054", "title": "Australian Labor Party (Non-Communist)", "text": "Australian Labor Party (Non-Communist)\n\nThe Australian Labor Party (Non-Communist) was the second Lang Labor breakaway party, associated with New South Wales Premier Jack Lang. It operated from 1940 to 1941.\n\nFollowing the disappearance of the previous Lang Labor group, the Australian Labor Party (NSW), Lang formed a new party, which contested the 1940 federal election.\n\nUnlike the Australian Labor Party split of 1931, however, he was in a minority in New South Wales, many of his old supporters such as Eddie Ward remained loyal to Australian Labor Party leader John Curtin, and Lang candidates polled poorly.\n\nIn February 1941, prior to the May 1941 state election, the Non-Communist Labor Party wound up and its members, with the exception of Lang himself, were officially re-admitted to the Australian Labor Party. The reunification would help assist Curtin to become Prime Minister of Australia in October 1941.\n\nThe party's membership included five federal MPs (Jack Beasley, Joe Gander, Dan Mulcahy, Sol Rosevear and Tom Sheehan) and two senators (Stan Amour and John Armstrong). Nine state MLAs and six MLCs also joined the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "47679524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47679524", "title": "Australian Labor Party split of 1916", "text": "Australian Labor Party split of 1916\n\nThe Australian Labor Party split of 1916 occurred following severe disagreement within the Australian Labor Party over the issue of proposed World War I conscription in Australia. Labor Prime Minister of Australia Billy Hughes had, by 1916, become an enthusiastic supporter of conscription as a means to boost Australia's contribution to the war effort. On 30 August 1916, he announced plans for a referendum on the issue (the Australian plebiscite, 1916), and introduced enabling legislation into parliament on 14 September, which passed only with the support of the opposition. Six of Hughes' ministers resigned in protest at the move, and the New South Wales state branch of the Labor Party expelled Hughes. The referendum saw an intense campaign in which Labor figures vehemently advocated on each side of the argument, although the \"no\" campaign narrowly won on 14 November. In the wake of the referendum defeat, the caucus moved to expel Hughes on 14 November; instead, he and 23 supporters resigned and formed the National Labor Party. Frank Tudor was elected leader of the rump party. Hughes was recommissioned as Prime Minister, heading a minority government supported by the opposition Commonwealth Liberal Party; the two parties then merged as the Nationalist Party of Australia and won the 1917 federal election. The Nationalist Party served as the main conservative party of Australia until 1931, and the split resulted in many early Labor figures ending their careers on the political right.\n\nThe split had different impacts in different states. In Queensland there was no significant split at all, with the state Labor Party having experienced the loss of many early members a decade earlier when William Kidston led a breakaway group out in 1907. During the war Premier T. J. Ryan made strong efforts to minimise losses. Only one member of the state parliament, John Adamson, left the party and initially there was no attempt to create an alternate vehicle at the state level. However in October 1919 Adamson was part of the formation of a National Labor Party for ex-Labor supporters that used the name. It had no electoral success and soon disappeared.\n\n"}
{"id": "1090624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1090624", "title": "Ayn Rand Institute", "text": "Ayn Rand Institute\n\nThe Ayn Rand Institute: The Center for the Advancement of Objectivism, commonly known as the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI), is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit think tank in Irvine, California that promotes Objectivism, the philosophy developed by Ayn Rand. Its stated goal is to \"spearhead a cultural renaissance that will reverse the anti-reason, anti-individualism, anti-freedom, anti-capitalist trends in today's culture\". The organization was established in 1985, three years after Rand's death, by Ed Snider and Leonard Peikoff, Rand's legal heir.\n\nARI has several educational and outreach programs, which include providing intellectuals for public appearances, supporting Objectivist campus clubs, supplying Rand's writings to schools and professors, assisting overseas Objectivist institutions, organizing annual conferences and running the Objectivist Academic Center.\n\nDuring her lifetime, Rand helped establish The Foundation for the New Intellectual to promote Objectivist ideas. The Foundation was dissolved some fifteen years after her death, having been made redundant by ARI. Although Rand objected to Objectivism becoming an organized movement, she supported like-minded individuals working toward a common goal. Peikoff, her legal heir, was convinced to start the organization after businessman Ed Snider organized a meeting of possible financial supporters in New York in the fall of 1983. Peikoff also agreed to be the first chairman of the organization's board of directors.\n\nIn 1983, a group of Objectivists, including George Reisman, organized the Jefferson School of Philosophy, Economics and Politics. The Jefferson School held a two-week-long conference at the University of California, San Diego later that year, a conference which continued to occur every two years and is the predecessor of ARI's current annual Objectivist Conference.\n\nARI began operations on February 1, 1985, three years after Rand's death, in Marina del Rey, California. The first board of directors included Snider and psychologist Edith Packer. Snider was also one of the founding donors for the organization along with educational entrepreneur Carl Barney. Its first executive director was Michael Berliner, who was previously the chairman of the Department of Social and Philosophical Foundations of Education at California State University, Northridge. ARI also established a board of governors, which initially included Harry Binswanger, Robert Hessen, Edwin Locke, Arthur Mode, George Reisman, Jay Snider, and Mary Ann Sures, with Peter Schwartz as its chairman. M. Northrup Buechner and George Walsh joined the board of advisors shortly thereafter.\n\nARI's first two projects were aimed at students. One was developing a network of college clubs to study Objectivism. The other was a college scholarship contest for high-school students based on writing an essay about Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\". Later, additional essay contests were added based on \"Anthem\", \"We the Living\" and \"Atlas Shrugged\". In 1988, ARI began publishing \"Impact\", a newsletter for contributors.\n\nIn 1989, a philosophical dispute resulted in ARI ending its association with philosopher David Kelley. Some members of the board of advisors agreed with Kelley and also left, including George Walsh. Kelley subsequently founded his own competing institute now known as The Atlas Society, which remains critical of ARI's stance on loyalty.\n\nIn 1994, ARI launched the Objectivist Graduate Center, which offered both distance-learning and in-person courses.\n\nIn January 2000, Berliner retired as executive director, replaced by Yaron Brook, then an assistant professor of finance at Santa Clara University. Onkar Ghate began working for ARI later that year and ARI launched the Objectivist Academic Center.\n\nIn 2002, ARI moved from Marina del Rey to larger offices in Irvine, California.\n\nIn 2003, ARI launched the Anthem Fellowship for the Study of Objectivism, a fellowship that financially supports universities who have Objectivist professors.\n\nCharity Navigator, which rates charitable and educational organizations to inform potential donors, gives ARI three out of four stars. According to the latest data from Charity Navigator, ARI spends 85.1% of its expenses on programs, 9.5% on fundraising and 5.3% on administration. , ARI's board of directors consists of Brook; Berliner (co-chair); Arline Mann (co-chair), retired attorney, formerly of Goldman, Sachs & Co.; Carl Barney, CEO of several private colleges; Harry Binswanger, long-time associate of Rand; Peter LePort, a surgeon in private practice; Tara Smith, professor of philosophy at the University of Texas at Austin; and John Allison, CEO of the Cato Institute and former CEO of BB&T.\n\nPeikoff retains a cooperative and influential relationship with ARI. In 2006, he remarked that he approved of the work ARI has done and in November 2010 that the executive director \"has done a splendid job\". Peikoff was a featured speaker at the 2007 and 2010 Objectivist Conferences. In August 2010, he demanded a change to ARI's board of directors, resulting in the resignation of John McCaskey.\n\nA central goal for ARI throughout the 2010s has been to spread Objectivism globally. ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Center Israel in 2012, the Ayn Rand Institute Europe in 2015 and the Ayn Rand Center Japan in 2017. Each of these organizations are separate legal entities from the United States-based ARI, but they are all affiliated with ARI.\n\nIn January 2017, ARI announced Jim Brown as its CEO, succeeding Yaron Brook as its operational executive.\n\nIn June 2018, Tal Tsfany, co-founder of the Ayn Rand Center Israel, took over as the president and CEO of ARI.\n\nARI runs a variety of programs, many of which are aimed at students. It sends free books to schools, sponsors student essay contests and campus clubs and offers financial assistance to students applying to graduate school. It also has an online bookstore, offers internships for current and recently graduated college students and provides speakers for public lectures and media appearances.\n\nARI organizes a week-long Objectivist Conference (OCON) each summer in a different city throughout the United States. OCON primarily consists of lectures, social events, and professional mentoring. Speakers have included ARI-affiliated Objectivists as well as like-minded intellectuals such as Flemming Rose and Dave Rubin.\n\nARI also hosts a three-day Ayn Rand Student Conference (AynRandCon) each fall, which is aimed at college and graduate school students.\n\nThe Objectivist Academic Center (OAC) is an educational program that conducts online classes on Objectivism and related fields. Entry to the program requires admission after application, which requires college transcripts and admission essays. OAC does not offer college credits and is rather intended as a supplement to a college education.\n\nIn recent years, ARI has made a concerted effort to promote Objectivism globally. Institutions affiliated with ARI in countries outside the United States are separate legal entities.\n\nIn October 2012, ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Center Israel (ARCI) to promote Objectivism in Israel and the Middle East. Its current director is Boaz Arad. In 2016, ARCI launched the Atlas Award for the Best Israeli Start-up, presented annually at the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Judges for the award include Yaron Brook and Shlomo Kalish. Moovit was the first recipient of the award in 2016 and Zebra Medical Vision won the award in 2017.\n\nIn April 2015, ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Institute Europe to promote Objectivism in Europe. The current chairman of ARI Europe is Lars Seir Christensen, CEO and co-founder of Saxo Bank. In February 2017, ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Center Japan. ARI has also helped establish Objectivist clubs at schools throughout the world, including in Mexico, Argentina, the United Kingdom, Bulgaria, India and China.\n\nARI has also helped guide the independent Spain-based Objetivismo Internacional, which seeks to spread Objectivism in the Spanish-speaking world.\n\nARI promotes Objectivism, the philosophy developed by Ayn Rand. ARI sponsors writers and speakers who apply Objectivism to contemporary issues, including religion, politics and art.\n\nSince Objectivism advocates atheism, ARI promotes the separation of church and state and its writers argue that the religious right poses a threat to individual rights. They have argued against displaying religious symbols such as the Ten Commandments in government facilities and against faith-based initiatives. ARI intellectuals argue that religion is incompatible with American ideals and opposes the teaching of \"intelligent design\" in public schools.\n\nARI is strongly supportive of free speech and opposes all forms of censorship, including laws that ban obscenity and hate speech. In response to the Muhammad cartoons controversy, ARI started a Free Speech Campaign in 2006. Steve Simpson, director of legal studies at ARI, has argued that campaign finance is a free speech issue and that laws that limit it are a violation of the First Amendment. Accordingly, Simpson and ARI strongly supports \"Citizens United\".\n\nARI has taken many controversial positions with respect to the Muslim world. They hold that the motivation for Islamic terrorism comes from their religiosity, not poverty or a reaction to Western policies. They have urged that the United States use overwhelming, retaliatory force to \"end states who sponsor terrorism\", using whatever means are necessary to end the threat. In his article \"End States Who Sponsor Terrorism\", which was published as a full page ad in \"The New York Times\", Peikoff wrote: \"The choice today is mass death in the United States or mass death in the terrorist nations. Our Commander-In-Chief must decide whether it is his duty to save Americans or the governments who conspire to kill them\". Although some at ARI initially supported the invasion of Iraq, it has criticized how the Iraq War was handled. Since October 2, 2001, ARI has held that Iran should be the primary target in the war against \"Islamic totalitarianism\".\n\nARI is generally supportive of Israel. Of Zionism, Yaron Brook writes: \"Zionism fused a valid concern – self-preservation amid a storm of hostility – with a toxic premise – ethnically based collectivism and religion\".\n\nARI is highly critical of environmentalism and animal rights, arguing that they are destructive to human well-being. ARI is also highly critical of diversity and affirmative action programs as well as multiculturalism, arguing that they are based on racist premises that ignore the commonality of a shared humanity.\n\nARI supports women's right to choose abortion, voluntary euthanasia and assisted suicide.\n\nARI denounces neoconservatism in general. For example, C. Bradley Thompson wrote an article entitled \"The Decline and Fall of American Conservatism\", which was later turned with Yaron Brook into a book called \"Neoconservatism: An Obituary for an Idea\".\n\nAs of 2017, ARI had assets of $5,566,000.\n\nFunding details as of 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "48880850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48880850", "title": "Chukyo Metropolis proposal", "text": "Chukyo Metropolis proposal\n\nThe Chukyo Metropolis proposals (中京都構想 and ) are proposed transformations of the Aichi prefecture into a metropolis. Aichi's prefectural governor, Mr. Omura, formed \"Chukyo Isshin no Kai\" or Chukyo Metropolitan Area Renewal Association in 2012. The latter plan is an alternate that also incorporates Gifu prefecture in the Metropolis.\nThe metropolis would require Nagoya city to be dissolved and reorganized into wards under metropolitan authority. The concept has parallels with Tokyo's past and Osaka's proposed reorganization. \n\n"}
{"id": "43349091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349091", "title": "Civic application", "text": "Civic application\n\nCivic application is application software aiming at users' activation to participate in public good development through this application. In civil societies, civic applications are created to enhance public good, civic engagement, and generally social capital.\n\nCivic applications can for example aim at:\n\nCivic applications are to some extent often social networking services, but what distinguishes them is the civic goal, the mission funding its existence.\n\nInteraction between the user and the application is what differentiates civic applications from any IT service (website, portal) speaking about any citizen's topics, where interaction is not necessary and if exists often takes form of commenting under articles.\n\nCivic application can be accessed from a server via an Internet browser (online) or using mobile devices, such as mobile phones or tablets (mobile), less often from user's local drive (offline).\n\nNon-Governmental Organisations and public national institutions are noticing the value of the civic apps and invite people working in Information Technology domain to participate in their development (e.g. in Greater Portland, Chicago, Boston, Boulder, Washington D.C, Seattle and other American cities as part of the Code For America initiative). Very often they are created as part of \"hackatons\", IT development competitions.\n\nCivic applications are part of a greater concept of civic technologies, which encompass variety of civic applications, together with any software tools and platforms, enabling its development or hosting, and the software supporting local and national governments in performing their public functions.\n"}
{"id": "18460657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460657", "title": "Community Alliance for the Ethical Treatment of Youth", "text": "Community Alliance for the Ethical Treatment of Youth\n\nThe Community Alliance For the Ethical Treatment of Youth (CAFETY) is an advocacy group for people enrolled in residential treatment programs for at-risk teenagers. The group's mission includes advocating for access to advocates, due process, alternatives to aversive behavioral interventions, and alternatives to restraints and seclusion for young people in treatment programs. They have also called for the routine reporting of abuse in residential treatment programs, as well as federal government oversight and regulation of residential treatment programs.\n\nCAFETY is registered as a nonprofit corporation in New York. It is governed by a volunteer Board of Directors and also maintains an Advisory Board.\n\nCAFETY's current Executive Director is Kathryn Whitehead. As one of its key spokespeople, she has been featured in \"Mother Jones\", \"Time Magazine\" and \"The NewStandard\". Whitehead's and CAFETY's work on the issues of trauma and human rights abuses of youth in residential care, respectively, has also been published in the American Psychological Association's \"Journal of Orthopsychiatry\".\nCAFETY was founded in 2006 by Charles King and Kathryn Whitehead, with the goal: \"to create a forum for youth advocacy and support designed to develop and shape youth-guided policies and practices with a specific emphasis on the ethical treatment of youth with behavioral, emotional, and mental health problems in institutional settings\". By July of that year, CAFETY had 118 members and 8 core group members from across the United States, including at least one medical professional.\n\nCAFETYs' 'Care, NOT Coercion' Campaign seeks to end institutionalized child abuse and human rights violations in institutional settings. The organization additionally advocates for the regulation of, and the efficacy in treatment in such settings. In pursuit of that objective, CAFETY has chiefly focused its efforts on actively mobilizing its members in public education efforts and supporting and providing testimony in support of legislation aimed at the regulation of residential treatment facilities in the United States.\n\nFrom late 2007 through 2008, a broad coalition of grass roots efforts, prominent medical and psychological organizations that included members of CAFETY, provided testimony and support that led to the creation of the \"Stop Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens Act of 2008\" by the United States Congress Committee on Education and Labor.\n\nIn support of this effort, Jon Martin-Crawford, a member of the group's Board of Directors and Kathryn Whitehead, the group's Executive Director, appeared at a hearing before the United States Congress Committee on Education and Labor on April 24, 2008., where they described abusive practices they had experienced at the Family Foundation School and Mission Mountain School, both therapeutic boarding schools.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, CAFETY co-sponsored a press briefing on Capitol Hill in an effort to raise awareness of youth maltreatment in residential care.\n\nIn October, 2009, the CAFETY sent an unsolicited mass-mailing to 4,000 residents of Delaware County, using a mailing list compiled by \"going through the white pages of Delaware County phone books\" alerting the residents of abuse allegations at a local Therapeutic Boarding School called The Family Foundation School. The two page mailing included a page of excerpts from alumni testimony alleging abuse.\nThe allegations in the letter were dismissed by Jeff Brain, the Family Foundation School's vice president for external relations and acting director of admissions by telling a newspaper that \"all the allegations are categorically untrue or grossly exaggerated...and determined to be unfounded.\"\n\nCAFETY and its members also held a teens' rights rally held in Gainesville, Florida. At the rally, Chris Noroski, vice president of CAFETY, stated that while he was at The Family Foundation School in Hancock, NY, he was mentally and physically abused, stating\n\"For seven months of the time, I carried buckets of rocks back and forth\"\n\nOn April 5, 2011 CAFETY was quoted in an article for Time.com called \"Increasingly, Internet Activism Helps Shutter Abusive 'Troubled Teen' Boot Camps.\"\n\nCAFETY, along with the American Psychological Association, Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Therapy, and the American Bar Association was a major supporter of the bill H.R 911, \"Stop Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens Act,\" which was introduced in the U.S. Congress in 2009 and passed in the House of Representatives, but was not acted upon in the Senate and did not become law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3847235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3847235", "title": "Council of Europe resolution 1481", "text": "Council of Europe resolution 1481\n\nIn the resolution 1481/2006 of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly (PACE) issued on January 25, 2006 during its winter session, the Council of Europe \"strongly condemns crimes of totalitarian communist regimes\".\n\nIt condemned \"the massive human rights violations committed by totalitarian communist regimes and expressed sympathy, understanding and recognition for the victims of these crimes\". It also said these violations \"included individual and collective assassinations and executions, death in concentration camps, starvation, deportations, torture, slave labour and other forms of mass physical terror.\".\n\nThe full draft recommendation by rapporteur Göran Lindblad was issued with great majority by the Political Affairs committee. However, it did not receive the necessary two-thirds majority of the votes cast in the Parliamentary Assembly. The group of communist parties plus United Russia strongly opposed the resolution. The resolution was supported by the most conservatives including EPP/CD, ED, liberal groups and some social democrats, especially from countries like Hungary, the Czech Republic or the Baltic countries. \n\n153 members were present and voted (out of 317)\n\n99 members voted in favor of the Resolution 1481\n\n42 members voted against the Resolution 1481\n\n12 members abstained from voting.\n\n"}
{"id": "23577581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23577581", "title": "Defence of Canada Regulations", "text": "Defence of Canada Regulations\n\nThe Defence of Canada Regulations were a set of emergency measures implemented under the \"War Measures Act\" on 3 September 1939, a week before Canada's entry into World War II. \n\nThe extreme security measures permitted by the regulations included the waiving of habeas corpus and the right to trial, internment, bans on certain political and cultural groups, restrictions of free speech including the banning of certain publications, and the confiscation of property.\n\nSection 21 of the Regulations allowed the Minister of Justice to detain without charge anyone who might act \"in any manner prejudicial to the public safety or the safety of the state.\"\n\nThe Regulations were used to intern opponents of World War II, particularly fascists (like Adrien Arcand) and Communists (including Jacob Penner, Bruce Magnuson and Tom McEwen) as well as opponents of conscription such as Quebec nationalist and Montreal mayor Camillien Houde. It was under the regulations that Japanese Canadians were interned and their property confiscated for the duration of the war. German Canadians were required to register with the state and some German and Italian Canadians were detained. The Regulations were also used to ban the Communist Party of Canada in 1940 as well as several of its allied organizations such as the Young Communist League, the League for Peace and Democracy, the Ukrainian Labour Farmer Temple Association, the Finnish Organization of Canada, the Russian Workers and Farmers Clubs, the Polish Peoples Association and the Croatian Cultural Association, the Hungarian Workers Clubs and the Canadian Ukrainian Youth Federation. Various fascist groups were also banned such as the Canadian National Socialist Unity Party and the Canadian Union of Fascists. Non-communist labour leaders like Charles Millard were also interned.\n\nA number of prominent Communist Party members were detained until 1942 when the Soviet Union joined the Allies. Fascist leaders such as Adrien Arcand and John Ross Taylor were detained for the duration of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "4043648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043648", "title": "Developmental state", "text": "Developmental state\n\nDevelopmental state, or hard state, is a term used by international political economy scholars to refer to the phenomenon of state-led macroeconomic planning in East Asia in the late twentieth century. In this model of capitalism (sometimes referred to as \"state development capitalism\"), the state has more independent, or autonomous, political power, as well as more control over the economy. A developmental state is characterized by having strong state intervention, as well as extensive regulation and planning. The term has subsequently been used to describe countries outside East Asia which satisfy the criteria of a developmental state. Botswana, for example, has warranted the label since the early 1970s. The developmental state is sometimes contrasted with a predatory state or weak state.\n\nThe first person to seriously conceptualize the developmental state was Chalmers Johnson. Johnson defined the developmental state as a state that is focused on economic development and takes necessary policy measures to accomplish that objective. He argued that Japan's economic development had much to do with far-sighted intervention by bureaucrats, particularly those in the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). He wrote in his book \"MITI and the Japanese Miracle\":\n\nIn states that were late to industrialize, the state itself led the industrialization drive, that is, it took on developmental functions. These two differing orientations toward private economic activities, the regulatory orientation and the developmental orientation, produced two different kinds of business-government relationships. The United States is a good example of a state in which the regulatory orientation predominates, whereas Japan is a good example of a state in which the developmental orientation predominates.\nA regulatory state governs the economy mainly through regulatory agencies that are empowered to enforce a variety of standards of behavior to protect the public against market failures of various sorts, including monopolistic pricing, predation, and other abuses of market power, and by providing collective goods (such as national defense or public education) that otherwise would be undersupplied by the market. \nIn contrast, a developmental state intervenes more directly in the economy through a variety of means to promote the growth of new industries and to reduce the dislocations caused by shifts in investment and profits from old to new industries. In other words, developmental states can pursue industrial policies, while regulatory states generally can not.\n\nGovernments in developmental states invest and mobilize the majority of capital into the most promising industrial sector that will have maximum spillover effect for the society. Cooperation between state and major industries is crucial for maintaining stable macroeconomy. According to Alice Amsden's \"Getting the Price Wrong\", the intervention of state in the market system such as grant of subsidy to improve competitiveness of firm, control of exchange rate, wage level and manipulation of inflation to lowered production cost for industries caused economic growth, that is mostly found in late industrializers countries but foreign to early developed countries.\n\nAs in the case of Japan, there is little government ownership of industry, but the private sector is rigidly guided and restricted by bureaucratic government elites. These bureaucratic government elites are not elected officials and are thus less subject to influence by either the corporate-class or working-class through the political process. The argument from this perspective is that a government ministry can have the freedom to plan the economy and look to long-term national interests without having their economic policies disrupted by either corporate-class or working-class short-term or narrow interests.\n\nSome of the best prospects for economic growth in the last few decades have been found in East and Southeast Asia. Japan, South Korea, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Thailand, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, Philippines, and Indonesia are developing at high to moderate levels. Thailand, for example, has grown at double-digit rates most years since the early 1980s. China has been the world leader in economic growth since 2001. It is estimated that it took England around 60 years to double its economy when the Industrial Revolution began. It took the United States around 50 years to double its economy during the American economic take-off in the late nineteenth century. Several East and Southeast Asian countries today have been doubling their economies every 10 years.\n\nIt is important to note that in most of these Asian countries, it is not just that the rich are getting richer, but the poor are becoming less poor. For example, poverty has dropped dramatically in Thailand. Research in the 1960s showed that 60 percent of the people in Thailand lived below a poverty level estimated with cost of basic necessities. By 2004, however, similar estimates showed that poverty there was around 13 to 15 percent. Thailand has been shown by some World Bank figures to have had the best record for reducing poverty per increase in GNP of any nation in the world.\n\nWhen viewed through the lens of dependency theory, developmentalism is about countries such as Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea, and increasingly Vietnam, where the governments are able and willing to protect their people from the negative consequences of foreign corporate exploitation. They tend to have a strong government, also called a \"developmental state\" or \"hard state\" and have leaders who can confront multinationals and demand that they operate to protect their people's interests. These \"development states\" have the will and authority to create and maintain policies that lead to long-term development that helps all their citizens, not just the wealthy. Multinational corporations are regulated so that they may follow domestically mandated standards for pay and labor conditions, pay reasonable taxes, and by extension leave some profits within the country.\n\nSpecifically, what is meant by a developmental state, is a government with sufficient organization and power to achieve its development goals. There must be a state with the ability to prove consistent economic guidance and rational and efficient organization, and the power to back up its long-range economic policies. All of this is important because the state must be able to resist external demands from outside multinational corporations to do things for their short-term gain, overcome internal resistance from strong groups trying to protect short-term narrow interests, and control infighting within the nation pertaining to who will most benefit from development projects.\n\nIn the late 1990s a study was conducted in which the researchers interviewed people from 24 large factories in Thailand owned by Japanese and American corporations. They found that most of the employees in these corporations made more than the average in Thailand, and substantially more than the $4.40 a day minimum wage in the country at the time. The researchers’ analysis of over 1,000 detailed questionnaires indicated that the employees rate their income and benefits significantly above average compared to Thai-owned factories. They found the working conditions in all 24 companies far from conditions reported about Nike in Southeast Asia.\n\nOne answer to the discrepancies found between multinational corporations in Thailand and the conditions described for Nike workers is that companies such as Wal-Mart, The Gap, or Nike subcontract work to small local factories. These subcontractors remain more invisible, making it more easy to bribe local officials to maintain poor working conditions. When multinational corporations set up business in countries like Malaysia, Taiwan, or Thailand, their visibility makes much less likely employees will have wages and conditions below the standards of living of the country.\n\nThailand is said to fall between the U.S. model where government has little involvement in economic policy, and Japan which has governed with a very heavy hand for more than 100 years. One focus of Thai development policies was on import substitution. Here, a development state must be able to tell multinational corporations that goods will be imported, if at all, with tariffs as high as 80 to 150 percent to prevent these goods from competing with goods made in (at least at first) less efficient infant factories in the poorer country. Only a development state can have the influence to enforce such a policy on rich multinational corporations (and their governments), and only a development state can have the influence to enforce such a policy against the demands of their own rich citizens who want the imported goods and want them then at a cheaper price, not waiting for infant industries to produce suitable products. Thailand began placing tariffs of 150 percent on important automobiles, but at the same time telling the foreign auto industries that if they came to Thailand to create joint ventures with a Thai company to build cars—and thus hire Thai employees, pay Thai taxes, and keep some profits within Thailand—the auto company would get many forms of government assistance.\n\nThailand continued to protect its economy during the 1980s and 1990s despite the flood of foreign investment the nation had attracted. Thai bureaucrats started rules such as those demanding a sufficient percentage of domestic content in goods manufactured by foreign companies in Thailand and the 51 percent rule. Under the 51 percent rule, a multinational corporation starting operations in Thailand must form a joint venture with a Thai company. The result is that a Thai company with 51 percent control is better able to keep jobs and profits in the country. Countries such as Thailand have been able to keep foreign investors from leaving because the government has maintained more infrastructure investment to provide good transportation and a rather educated labor force, enhancing productivity.\n\nSingapore is a relatively young city-state and it obtains a title of developed country. Despite the fact that it has a lack of natural resources and an intense competition geographical environment, it has been growing its nation in the form of developmental state. In 1965, Singapore successfully became independent from Malaysian Federation, and later it changed its Fordism production oriented city state to a developmental city state in less than half a century (Kwon, 2005).\n\nIt was claimed by the People's Action Party (PAP), the governing party since 1965 that adopting the developmental state strategy is for Singapore's best interest due to its unique feature of social, political, geographical and economical condition. At first, PAP’s economic strategy was to provide cheap and disciplined labor and it provides a stable political system; Singapore has only one labor union that is directed by the PAP government. As a result, many multinational corporations (MNCs) invested in Singapore and soon Singapore came to be a solid manufacturing base (Sung, 2006).\n\nHowever, the PAP soon realized that if Singapore was to move forward to industrialization then it needed to improve its national education. In the 1960s, Singapore's education was fragmented basically by race, language and habitat lines (Wilson, 1978). Therefore, a series of education projects were launched in the hope of helping Singapore to obtain industrialization. For example, in 1970, the Vocational and Industrial Training Board (VITB) was launched to provide technical education for workers who dropped out of secondary school. (Sung, 2006) Singapore's training programs has a different function from other neoliberal cities; these programs match workers’ skills to the market of economic development. The economy is planned by the government; it arranges the market demand of labor on one hand and provides the supply of labor on the other hand.\n\nThe Singapore government has noticed the country's weakness and its special geographical location. It is because that the population of Singapore was much less than other surrounding countries, so soon its manufacturing status would be replaced by other Asian countries like Indonesia, Vietnam, China, etc. Also, other Asian countries could provide relatively cheaper and greater labor force and more raw materials of production could be exploited. Therefore, Singapore was vulnerable of facing such surrounding threats. However, the Singapore government has adopted a special view of new international division of labor; it has placed itself as a global city in the Southeast Asian region. According to Saskia Sassen's \"global cities\", they are cities where headquarters which are committed in participating of globalization networks and they are the result of strong integration of urbanization and globalization (Hack, Margolin and Delaye, 2010).\n\nSouth Korea has undergone rapid economic development since the end of the Korean War(1950~1953). Like other \"late industrializers\" (Amsden, 1989) such as Taiwan, Economy of South Korea was led by the bureaucratic governmental state that controlled and manipulated the market system.\n\nKorean government implemented various economic measures in order to pursue export oriented growth. Korea at the early 60s was lacking capital and technological basis, so the only competitive advantage the country had was the low wage. Therefore, Korea first penetrated the global market with cheap labor in the light industry sector such as wigs and cotton spinning in 50s~60s. Korean industrial policy moved towards the heavy and chemical industries in the 70s and 80s, mobilizing the state’s financial resources for the rapid growth of industries such as steel and shipbuilding.\n\nDuring those developmental periods, the government granted various forms of subsidies to the industries. Long-term loans and credits were given for higher competence in global market, thereby increasing export. Foreign exchange rates were often manipulated to stimulate export or import the raw materials at lower cost. Due to such subsidies on exports and manipulation by the government, the relative prices in Korean industry diverged from the free market equilibriums. Such interventions by the state are termed as \"deliberately getting relative prices wrong\"(Amsden, 1989), which means that the prices are intentionally deviated from the ‘right’ prices, the market equilibrium. Big business groups in chosen industries were supported and invested by the government, thereby forming intimate economic and political ties. Such groups grew to account for a large portion of GNP and became the Chaebols.\n\nSouth Korea's GDP per capita grew from $876 in 1950 to $22,151 in 2010. Industrial production in South Korea was 9% in 1953 but reached 38% in 2013. Korea first adopted an ISI but followed a Developmental state growth strategy. Korea after their independence in 1945 lead to end of economic ties with Japan which they were heavily relied upon. During the Korean war, the country was devastated both physically and mentally. After the Korean war, South Korea focused on exporting primary products such as crops, minerals while imported manufactured goods from US. In the beginning of ISI ear, Korean industries were successful in textile and light consumer good industries (Charles, 1975). South Korea eventually focused on an export oriented industries through direct government involvement. South Korean state has more autonomy over the regulation of economy, the state created conditions favorable for rapid economic growth, for example, the state provided long-term loans for industries with higher competence in global market which eventually increased the exporting sector (Chibber, 2014).Under Park Chung Hee's leadership, South Korea in 1960's created Economic Planning Board (EPB) which unified previously divided industries and created a centralized decision making state.\n\nKorea has been called one of \"Asia's four little dragons\" or Four Asian Tigers with its prominent economic growth (The other three being Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore). Korea’s GDP per capita in 1980 was $1,778.5, which was only a fraction of Japan’s per capita ($9,307.8). In 2014, Korea’s GDP was $25,977.0, having shown dramatic growth in the past decade.\n\nWhile the developmental state is associated with East Asia, it has been argued that after 30 years of many negative experiences with the Washington Consensus, similar structures began to appear in Latin America. The \"Latin American\" approach is different, however, as it often takes place at a city/municipal level, rather than at a state level and places a great emphasis on tackling social exclusion. One pioneer in this experience has been Medellin, whose experience with a local development state has been highly praised by researchers at the Overseas Development Institute. Medellin's city administration used its ownership of city's main energy provider Empresas Publicas de Medellín (EPM) and diverted 30% of EPM's profits to fund municipal spending. The spending went partly on a variety of infrastructure projects, such as the city's metro, bus network and a cable car system connecting the poorer barrio communities to the city centre. However, the city also developed a program of cash grants called 'the Medellín Solidaria' programme that are very similar to Brazil's highly successful Bolsa Familia that provide support for poor families. Additionally, the city developed the Cultura E programme that established a network of 14 publicly funded business support centres known as CEDEZO, Centros de Desarrollo Empresarial Zonal. The CEDEZOs are found in the poorest areas of Medellin and support the poor in developing business by providing free-of-charge business support services and technical advice. Also, as part of Cultura E, there is Banco de las Opportunidades that provides microloans (up to $2,500 at a cheap interest rates 0.91% monthly). This has helped create more equal opportunities for all and overcome the barriers to entry to business for poor entrepreneurs with good ideas, but lacking capital, skills and connections. It has also helped develop the local economy with new micro-enterprises. However, several mayoral candidates for the October 2011 elections have argued the Banco de las Opportunidades's interest rates are too high, loan maturity is too short and it should have grace periods. They therefore suggest a new small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) development bank to complement the Banco de las Opportunidades.\n\nThere are difficulties with the local development state model. Despite claims at the end of the 1980s by some, such as Hernando de Soto (1989) that micro-enterprises would lead economic growth, this has not come to pass. For instance, in Medellín the informal sector has seen a huge growth in micro-enterprises, but the impact on poverty and development has been minimal. Almost none of these microenterprises have evolved into informal small or medium businesses, as the demand does not exist to absorb increased production. In other words, a successful ice-cream producer producing 30 ice-creams per day at home may sell all their product and make a livelihood out of it, but transforming it into a business, incurring the costs of mechanisation in order to produce perhaps 300, may not be worthwhile if there is no demand for so many ice-creams. Failure rates are very high and the debt incurred by owners becomes unmanageable. Recognising which micro-enterprises have a high potential is extremely difficult and the costs involved in providing business support and advise are very high. There is a great difficulty in identifying demand, especially on a global level and demand patterns are constantly changing. The limited ability of city administrations to gather enough resources to support businesses and make sound investments can be problematic.\n\nDespite all the evidence of the importance of a development state, some international aid agencies have just recently publicly recognized the fact. The United Nations Development Program, for example, published a report in April 2000 which focused on good governance in poor countries as a key to economic development and overcoming the selfish interests of wealthy elites often behind state actions in developing nations. The report concludes that “Without good governance, reliance on trickle-down economic development and a host of other strategies will not work.”\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44243491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44243491", "title": "Dror-Israel", "text": "Dror-Israel\n\nDror-Israel () is a pioneering educational movement whose mission is to effect meaningful, long-term educational and social change in Israeli society in order to promote solidarity, social activism, democracy and equality. Dror-Israel aim to form the grassroots nucleus of an exemplary society in Israel based on the vision of the prophets of Israel and the founders of Zionism.\n\nDror Israel emphasizes participation from every sector of Israeli society, including Ethiopian and Russian immigrants, Arab Israelis, Druze and Bedouins, and middle class and working class communities. In the past decade, Dror Israel has established 16 educators' kibbutzim in the social and geographic periphery of Israel. There are currently 1,200 young adults living in these kibbutzim, aged 20–40, who work daily in the organization's educational, cultural and social activities with over 100,000 children, teens and adults.\nDror Israel was founded in 2006 by graduates of HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed (Working and Studying Youth) youth movement. HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed was founded in 1924 by youth working to defend their rights. HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed founded more than one hundred kibbutzim between 1930 and 1980. In the 1990s, along with the decline of the kibbutz movement, HaNoar HaOved VeHalomed began re-examining the ideal life path of its members,\nwhich had encouraged settling kibbutzim in Gar'inim (core groups) after finishing their mandatory period of army service. In place of this path, a model started to be put forward in which graduates of the movement formed small urban communes working in society, particularly in education. As part of this process of change, Dror Israel was founded to give a name to this new movement, and today includes HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed as its daughter youth movement. As of 2014, there are about 1,200 members of Dror Israel, graduates of HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed living in small communes in cities or kibbutzim and working in Israeli society – mostly in education and the youth movement. Dror-Israel is named after the historical \"Dror\" Zionist youth movement.\n\nDror Israel's 16 educators' kibbutzim throughout Israel are made up of 1,200 active young people who live together in communities and commit to bettering Israeli society, working in various social, educational and community projects. The educators' kibbutzim strive for a new way of life that enables the members to actualize the Jewish values of Zionism, equality and social responsibility in the reality of Israel's geographic and socio-economic periphery.\n\nDror Israel believes that Jewish values are the foundation of a humanist, Zionist, democratic and egalitarian worldview. These values manifest themselves in all of the movement's programs for youth and adults, as well as in the members' own culture and lifestyle.\n\nDror Israel educates and assists children and youth in disadvantaged communities throughout Israel, most of whom live in Israel's social periphery and are exposed to poverty, inequality, drug use, neglect, violence, and discrimination. Dror Israel strives to provide them with a better future through innovative pedagogical programs that teach them life skills, professional training and educational tools in our various schools and programs:\n\nHanoar Haoved Vehalomed (The General Federation of Students and Young Workers in Israel) movement centers throughout Israel run a broad variety of educational activities, including seminars, continuing education, and camps and excursions, alongside local daily activities – all emphasizing involvement in Israeli society. The members value community activity and leave their home branches to become leaders at branches and centers in disadvantaged communities. Youth movement alumni have gone on to become social, political, military and cultural leaders in Israel, including former prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin, and former president and prime minister, Shimon Peres.\nAfter their army service, many youth movement graduates choose to join Dror Israel educators' kibbutzim.\n\nDror Israel operates unique educational initiatives for encounters between Jews and Arabs – with dozens of educators and thousands of children and youth participating each year.\nDror Israel co-existence activities throughout Israel:\n\n"}
{"id": "4082373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082373", "title": "Edmund Tremayne", "text": "Edmund Tremayne\n\nEdmund Tremayne (c. 1525–1582) was an English conspirator and official He was dedicated to Protestant causes, in opposition to the policy of Mary Tudor. \n\nTremayne was an assistant to Edward Courtenay, the first earl of Devon. Devon was suspected of involvement in Wyatt's rebellion against Mary, and Tremayne was taken to the Tower of London in 1554. There he was tortured on the rack for evidence but kept silent. After ten or eleven months in prison, he was released on a £40 fine, and he left England for Italy with Courtenay.\n\nHe wanted to join Sir Henry Sutton Dudley's conspiracy against Mary, and he joined the camp of English rebels at Rouen before the conspiracy was exploded in April 1557. He then attached himself to Francis Russell, 2nd Earl of Bedford, who was another figure plotting against Mary.\n\nWhen Elizabeth assumed the throne, she rewarded Tremayne. He was elected a Member of Parliament for Tavistock, and he was raised to a commissioner of Lancaster. From 1561-1574, he was the chief recipient of royal taxes for the district. He was also interested in the conversion of Ireland. William Cecil had asked him to study the question, and he wrote \"Causes why Ireland is not Reformed.\" In 1571, he was a clerk of the Privy Council. He did not marry until 1576, when he married Eulalia.\n\nTremayne was friends with Sir Francis Drake, who was his cousin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1938800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938800", "title": "Europeanism", "text": "Europeanism\n\nEuropeanism is a political neologism, coined in c. 2002 by the \"Center for Dialogue and Universalism\" at Warsaw University, coined for ideological support for the process of European integration as pursued by the European Union.\n\nSince 2002, the term has been used more widely in the sense of historical ideologies of Pan-Europeanism, e.g. in the context of 1930s fascism.\n\nThe philosophers Jürgen Habermas and Jacques Derrida wrote an article for the newspaper \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" in which they claimed the birth of a 'European public sphere'. \nThey argued that new values and habits had given contemporary Europe 'its own face', and saw an opportunity for the construction of a 'core Europe' (excluding Britain and Eastern Europe) that might be a counterweight to the United States.\n\nAttempting to explain what Europe represented, the two philosophers listed six facets of what they described as a common European 'political mentality':\n\n\nA personal study by political scientist John McCormick expands on these ideas, and identifies the following as core attributes of Europeanism:\n\n\nIn the context of the European migrant crisis of 2015, the European Commission wants to distribute part of the immigrants in EU member states, but the Visegrad Four countries in Central Europe (The Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia) oppose the quotas and the mass inflow of immigrants from the Middle East and Africa as such.\n\nSome Western European politicians have called for sanctions against the eastern members, saying that they are betraying the European values of solidarity, while the easterners say that they are defending the borders, the identity and the culture of Europe. Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister of Hungary which has built a double border fence to keep out immigrants, has said this about the immigration wave: “We may lose our European values, our very identity, by degrees like the live frog allowing itself to be slowly cooked to death in a pan of water.” Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn told the German paper \"Die Welt\" that countries like Hungary which violate EU values “should be excluded temporarily, or if necessary for ever, from the EU.” \n\n"}
{"id": "18247344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247344", "title": "Far-left politics", "text": "Far-left politics\n\nFar-left politics are political views located further on the left of the left-right spectrum than the standard political left. \n\nThe term has been used to describe ideologies such as: communism, anarcho-communism, left-communism, anarcho-syndicalism, Marxism–Leninism, Trotskyism, and Maoism.\n\nLuke March of the School of Social and Political Science at the University of Edinburgh defines the far-left in Europe as those who position themselves to the left of social democracy, which they see as insufficiently left-wing. The two main sub-types are called the radical left, who desire fundamental changes to the capitalist system yet remain accepting of liberal democracy, and the extreme left, who are more hostile to liberal democracy and denounce any compromise with capitalism. March specifies four major subgroups within contemporary European far-left politics: communists, democratic socialists, populist socialists and social populists.\n\nVít Hloušek and Lubomír Kopeček add secondary characteristics to those identified by March and Mudde, such as anti-Americanism, anti-globalization, opposition to NATO and rejection of European integration.\n\nIn France, the term \"extrême-gauche\" (\"far-left\") is a generally accepted term for political groups that position themselves to the left of the Socialist Party, such as Trotskyists, Maoists, anarcho-communists and New Leftists. Some, such as political scientist Serge Cosseron, limit the scope to the left of the French Communist Party, but there is no real consensus.\n\nThere were many far-left militant organizations formed from existing political parties in the 1960s and 1970s, such as the Red Brigades and the Red Army Faction. These groups generally aimed to overthrow capitalism and the wealthy ruling classes.\n\n"}
{"id": "41696419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41696419", "title": "Fritz Max Cahén", "text": "Fritz Max Cahén\n\nFritz Max Cahén (alias Lynkeus) (born December 8, 1891 in Saarlouis; died August 29, 1966 in Bonn) was active in the Weimar Republic government and later founded the anti-Nazi political alliance Volkssozialistische Bewegung (Cahén later referred to it as, in English, the German Front Against Hitlerism). He worked as a journalist and also authored the books \"Der Weg nach Versailles\" (1963) and \"Men Against Hitler\" (1939).\n\nFritz Max Cahén was born to a Jewish father; his mother was possibly Christian. His father, Eugen Cahén, was a founder of the Saar Produce Exchange, and a member of the Hansabund. Fritz Max Cahén graduated from the College of Metz (Alsace-Lorraine) and Saarbruecken University Marburg/Lahn. He took postgraduate courses at the Sorbonne (Paris) and Haute Ecole des Sciences Politiques et Sociales (Paris). In 1916 he married Eugenie Caroline Auguste Stamm, a Protestant, according to a marriage certificate in possession of the family. Fritz Max Cahén had one son that same year, artist Oscar Cahén. A reference work on Jewish émigrés also refers to a second son, Ulrich, born in 1925; if true, this child was not raised by Fritz Max and Eugenie.\n\nBefore the first World War, Cahén moved in German avant-garde art circles, contributing translations of Apollinaire to the Expressionist periodical \"Der Sturm\". As a young critic, he saw a connection between politics and art, suggesting in 1914 that the First World War would be fought over the future of German Expressionism, rather than Belgium's neutrality or the Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria of June 1914.\n\nAs a civil servant in the German Legation in Copenhagen 1916 - 1918, Cahén became \"personal advisor\" to Count Brockdorff-Rantzau, High Commissioner at the Versailles Peace Conference. Cahén wrote articles for many newspapers and magazines, sometimes under the name Lynkeus, including \"Die Schaubuehne\" (Berlin), \"Deutsche Politik\" (Berlin), \"Politiken\" (Copenhagen), \"L'Europe Nouvelle\" (Paris), \"Die Bruecke\" (Prague), \"Berliner Tageblatt, Frankfurter Zeitung\", \"Commentator\" (USA), \"Koelnische Zeitung, Skaanska Aftonbladet\" (Sweden), \"Deutsche Kunst und Decoration\" (Darmstadt).\n\nIn 1933, Cahén took refuge in Prague, where he co-wrote the script for \"Kiss in the Snow\" (directed by Rudolf Katscher), the German-language version of the 1934 film \"Polibek Ve Snehu\" (directed by Vaclav Binovec). In Prague Cahén also intensified his political activities, and on February 5, 1936 he founded the Volkssozialistische Bewegung with Hans Jaeger and Arthur Arzt. The British authorities, but not the Americans, suspected Cahén of being a Soviet spy.\n\nIn 1937, Cahén traveled to the United States in order to raise awareness of Nazi activities and to write \"Men Against Hitler\", which outlined the resistance activities he had participated in. Cahén asserted that half of German citizens did not actually support the Nazi regime and that their disaffection represented an opportunity to overthrow Hitler. He had the support of Wythe Williams, editor of the \"Greenwich Times\"; Williams acted as a literary agent, and translator, and wrote the book's introduction as well. Cahén also joined the New York-based group the German-American Council for the Liberation of Germany From Nazism, later renamed Association of Free Germans.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Second World War, Fritz Max Cahén was stuck in the United States and he lived there until 1954, when he returned to Germany and resumed his civil service work and writing. Meanwhile, his wife and son Oscar Cahén had become Canadian citizens; his wife joined him in Germany in the 1950s. Fritz Max Cahén died in Bonn, August 29, 1966.\n"}
{"id": "44927793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44927793", "title": "Galician Workers Union", "text": "Galician Workers Union\n\nThe Galician Workers Union (SOG, \"Sindicato Obreiro Galego\" in Galician language), was a Galician nationalist and anticapitalist union in Galiza.\n\nIts official publication was \"O Eixo\", editing at the same time other comarcal and sectorial publications. The SOG was founded in May 1975 when the Frente Obreiro (\"Workers Front\") of the Galician People's Union decided to become an union. The SOG was part of the Galician National Popular Assembly (AN-PG). The SOG defended \"combative\" unionism and rejected any kind o collaboration with the \"Patronal\".\n\nIn April 1976 the organization held its first General Assembly. However, it disappeared just a year later, in March 1977 to found, with other unions, the Intersindical Nacional Galega (ING).\n\n"}
{"id": "315563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315563", "title": "Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft", "text": "Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft\n\nGemeinschaft () and Gesellschaft (), generally translated as \"community and society\", are categories which were used by the German sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies in order to categorize social ties into two dichotomous sociological types which define each other. Max Weber, who is generally recognized as being a founding figure in sociology, also wrote extensively about the relationship between \"Gemeinschaft\" and \"Gesellschaft\". Weber wrote in direct response to Tönnies.\n\nThe \"Gemeinschaft–Gesellschaft\" dichotomy was proposed by Tönnies as a purely conceptual tool rather than as an ideal type in the way it was used by Max Weber to accentuate the key elements of a historic/social change. According to the dichotomy, social ties can be categorized, on one hand, as belonging to personal social interactions, and the roles, values, and beliefs based on such interactions (\"Gemeinschaft\", German, commonly translated as \"community\"), or on the other hand as belonging to indirect interactions, impersonal roles, formal values, and beliefs based on such interactions (\"Gesellschaft\", German, commonly translated as \"society\").\n\nTönnies was a Thomas Hobbes scholarhe edited the standard modern editions of Hobbes's \"The Elements of Law\" and \"Behemoth\". It was his study of Hobbes that encouraged Tönnies to devote himself wholly to the philosophy of history and the philosophy of law. And it has been argued that he derived both categories from Hobbes's concepts of \"concord\" and \"union\".\n\nThe second edition, published in 1912, of the work in which Tönnies further promoted the concepts turned out to be an unexpected but lasting success after the first edition was published in 1887 with the subtitle \"Treatise on Communism and Socialism as Empirical Patterns of Culture\". Seven more German editions followed, the last in 1935, and it became part of the general stock of ideas with which pre-1933 German intellectuals were quite familiar. The book sparked a revival of corporatist thinking, including the rise of neo-medievalism, the rise of support for guild socialism, and caused major changes in the field of sociology.\n\nThe concepts \"Gemeinschaft\" and \"Gesellschaft\" were also used by Max Weber in \"Economy and Society\", which was first published in 1921. Weber wrote in direct response to Tönnies, and argued that \"Gemeinschaft\" is rooted in a \"subjective feeling\" that may be \"affectual or traditional\". \"Gesellschaft\"-based relationships, according to Weber, are rooted in \"rational agreement by mutual consent\", the best example of which is a commercial contract. To emphasize the fluidity and amorphousness of the relationship between \"Gemeinschaft\" and \"Gesellschaft\", Weber modified the terms in German to \"Vergemeinschaftung\", and \"Vergesellschaftung\", which are the gerund forms of the German words. Weber's distinction between \"Gemeinschaft\" and \"Gesellschaft\" is highlighted in the essay \"Classes, Stände, Parties\", which is the basis for Weber's three-component theory of stratification.\n\nHaving propounded his conception of the \"Gemeinschaft\"–\"Gesellschaft\" dichotomy, Tönnies was drawn into a sharp polemic with Émile Durkheim. In a review of Tönnies' book in 1889, Durkheim interpreted \"Gemeinschaft\" as an organic community, and \"Gesellschaft\" as a mechanical one, reproaching Tönnies for considering the second type of social organisation artificial, and not seeing the transition from the one type to the other. Tönnies did not agree with such an interpretation of his views, and in turn, when reviewing Durkheim's \"The Division of Labour in Society\" (1896), wrote that Durkheim's whole sociology was a modification and variant of Spencer's, which was also unjust.\n\nEric Hobsbawm argued that, as globalization turns the entire planet into an increasingly remote kind of \"Gesellschaft\", so too collective identity politics seeks for a fictitious remaking of the qualities of \"Gemeinschaft\" by artificially reforging group bonds and identities.\n\nFredric Jameson highlights the ambivalent envy felt by those constructed by \"Gesellschaft\" for remaining enclaves of \"Gemeinschaft\", even as they inevitably corrode their existence.\n\nIn business usage, \"Gesellschaft\" is the German term for \"company\", as in \"Aktiengesellschaft\" or \"Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung\" (\"GmbH\"). \"Gemeinschaft\" is used to identify groups which have or are claimed to have an element of affective loyalty. One important usage is in the German name for the European Economic Community, \"Europäische Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft\".\n\nThe German phrase for \"mutual insurance company\" includes both words, \"mutual\" and \"company.\" In the 1980's, the Frankenmuth Mutual Insurance Company, headquartered in the German-American city of Frankenmuth, Michigan, released various promotional items such as matchbooks, featuring, in a traditional German Fraktur font, a translation of their company's name, \"Frankenmuth Gemeinschafts Versicherinungs Gesellschaft.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3565826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3565826", "title": "Godless Americans March on Washington", "text": "Godless Americans March on Washington\n\nThe Godless Americans March on Washington (GAMOW) occurred on the National Mall in Washington, DC on November 2, 2002 with the participation of many atheists, freethinkers, agnostics, and humanists. The public cable network C-SPAN documented the event on video.\n\nThe event started at 11:00 A.M. near the Washington Monument, led by the American Atheist's banner promoting the separation of church and state. About halfway down the Mall the people were confronted by counter-protesters. However, the people continued to proceed to the other end of the Mall in front of the Capitol. At 11:30 A.M., the rally started and featured over 20 speakers and musical entertainment. The rally lasted for about 4 hours.\n\nThe event was marked by many slogans and banners on shirts, badges, etc., including \"What Our Schools Need is a Moment of Science!\", \"Atheism is Myth-Understood!\", \"Secular Humanists for a Secular America\", \"Citizen–Atheist–Patriot\". The official T-shirt for the march showed a picture of the Capitol and the American Flag with the statement \"Free, Proud and on the Move–GODLESS AMERICANS\".\n\nMany speakers delivered speeches at the March. A few noted speakers were Frank Zindler, editor of the \"American Atheist Magazine\", Margaret Downey of the Freethought Society of Greater Philadelphia and Ed Buckner, executive director of the Council for Secular Humanism, etc.( see Event Speakers The speeches delivered were basically on theism, atheism and related themes. Ed Buckner reportedly attacked the way theists perceive atheists as lacking morality.\n\nOver two thousand atheists, freethinkers, agnostics, and humanists gathered in a mile-long parade down The Mall to rally for several causes, including civil rights, church-state separation, and a greater voice in the national political process.\n\nEllen Johnson, former president of American Atheists and director of the Godless Americans March On Washington Task Force announced at the event the formation of the Godless Americans Political Action Committee (GAMPAC), later renamed Enlighten the Vote.\n\nSpeakers at the event included:\n\n\nAtheist groups by and large considered the march a success, though some within the atheist community did criticize the event for a number of reasons, including the exclusion of theists from being able to endorse the event, how atheism was defined for the purposes of the march, and the apparent attempt by organizers to use the march as a way of \"creating an identity for nonbelievers.\"\n\nAn organization calling itself the Religious Freedom Coalition ran newspaper ads the day before the event characterizing the views of atheists and Satanists to be identical. Following the event, the same organization called the event a success, but described it as \"ill timed\" and an indication of a dangerous brand of new atheism.\n\nFollowing the march, leaders of three atheist organizations—Atheist Alliance International, the Institute for Humanist Studies, and the Internet Infidels—met and set in motion the founding of the Secular Coalition for America.\n\nHemant Mehta of the blog the Friendly Atheist and author of \"I Sold My Soul on eBay\" referenced the event in the context of the Reason Rally which was held on Saturday March 24, 2012.\n\nPaul Geisert set up the Brights movement.\n"}
{"id": "24718578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24718578", "title": "Great Debates (international relations)", "text": "Great Debates (international relations)\n\nIn international relations theory, the Great Debates refer to a series of disagreements between international relations scholars. Ashworth describes how the discipline of international relations has been heavily influenced by historical narratives and that \"no single idea has been more influential\" than the notion that there was a debate between utopian and realist thinking.\n\nThe \"First Great Debate\" also known as the \"Realist-Idealist Great Debate\" was a dispute between idealists and realists which took place in the 1930s and 1940s and which was fundamentally about how to deal with Nazi Germany. Realist scholars emphasized the anarchical nature of international politics and the need for state survival. Idealists emphasized the possibility of international institutions such as the League of Nations. However, some have argued that defining the debate between realism and idealism in terms of a great debate is a misleading caricature and so described the \"great debate\" as a myth.\n\nThe \"Second Great Debate\" was a dispute between \"scientific IR\" scholars who sought to refine scientific methods of inquiry in international relations theory and those who insisted on a more historicist/interpretative approach to international relations theory. The debate is termed \"realists versus behaviourists\" or \"traditionalism versus scientism\". This debate would be resolved when neorealists such as Kenneth Waltz (1959, 1979) adopt a Behaviouralist, and hence positivist scientific approach to their studies.\n\nSometimes the inter-paradigm debate is considered to be a great debate and is therefore referred to as the \"Third Great Debate\". The inter-paradigm debate was a debate between liberalism, realism and radical international relations theories. The debate has also been described as being between realism, institutionalism and structuralism.\n\nThe \"Fourth Great Debate\" was a debate between positivist theories and post-positivist theories of international relations. Confusingly, it is often described in literature as \"The Third Great Debate\" by those who reject the description of the inter-paradigm debate as a Great Debate. This debate is concerned with the underlying epistemology of international relations scholarship and is also described as a debate between \"rationalists\" and \"reflectivists\". The debate was started by Robert Keohane in an International Studies Association debate in 1988 and can be considered an epistemological debate, about how we can know 'things' rather than an ontological one, that is to say a debate about what we can claim to know. As Balzacq and Baele summarize, this debate is \"a discussion which, in the 1980s and 1990s, followed a composite claim for a more diverse, less epistemologically and ontologically naïve, and more critical IR\".\n\nBrown remarking on the possibility of a \"Fifth Great Debate\" has suggested that the debate could concern critical realism but goes on to say 'let us hope not, because the first four great debates were singularly pointless affairs, and the fifth, when it arrives, is unlikely to be any different. Steve Smith argues that 'it is difficult to find any notion of a \"fifth great debate\" in the literature.\n\nSteve Smith has argued that the differing positions have largely ignored each other meaning that it makes little sense to talk of 'debates' between rival theoretical frameworks. Emmanuel Navon has argued that the three debates are a sham since there is nothing new about debating human nature and human knowledge, while the 'third debate' artificially imports the deconstructionist French fad into the study of International Relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41313661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41313661", "title": "Hida Viloria", "text": "Hida Viloria\n\nHida Viloria (born May 29, 1968) is a Latina American writer, author of \"Born Both: An Intersex Life\" (Hachette Books), and intersex and non-binary rights activist of Colombian and Venezuelan descent. Viloria is Founding Director of the Intersex Campaign for Equality.\n\nViloria was born in Jamaica, Queens, New York, to recently immigrated Colombian and Venezuelan parents. Her father, a physician, and mother, an ex-school teacher, chose to register and raise her as female without subjecting her to medically unnecessary cosmetic genital surgeries, also known as intersex genital mutilation (IGM), that were routinely recommended at the time for intersex children with genital variance like hers.\n\nViloria attended Wesleyan University in Connecticut from 1986-1988, and graduated with high honors and high distinction from the University of California at Berkeley in 1998, with an Interdisciplinary Studies B.A. in Gender and Sexuality.\n\nViloria is the author of the acclaimed, \"Born Both: An Intersex Life\" (Hatchette Book Group, March, 2017), and has been published extensively on intersectional intersex issues such Intersex Genital Mutilation (IGM), its harms, heteronormative imperatives and similarities to FGM, discrimination against intersex women in sports, racism, sexuality, legal gender recognition, and gender identity, in venues such as \"The Daily Beast, Huffington Post, The Advocate, Ms., The New York Times, The American Journal of Bioethics, the Global Herald, CNN.com,\" and others, and in her blog <nowiki>\"</nowiki>\"Intersex and Out\".\n\nViloria is also a recognized human rights activist who has educated extensively about intersex and non-binary gender issues as a frequent speaker (Stanford, Princeton, Vassar, NYU), consultant (United Nations OHCHR, United Nations Free & Equal Campaign, Lambda Legal, Human Rights Watch, Williams Institute, IOC...), television and radio guest (\"The Oprah Winfrey Show, HuffPost Live, 20/20, Aljazeera, BBC Radio, KPFA\") and in film (\"Gendernauts, One in 2000, Intersexion\"), and she continues to advocate for equality and human rights for intersex and non-binary people as Founding Director of the Intersex Campaign for Equality.\n\nIn 1996, Viloria participated in the first international intersex retreat. She reports that, eager to meet people like herself, instead she \"met people who'd been traumatized and physically damaged by cosmetic genital surgeries and hormone treatments they'd been subjected to in infancy and childhood, and it moved me to become an intersex activist.\" \nViloria has been advocating publicly against the use of medically unnecessary cosmetic surgeries and hormone therapy on intersex infants and minors, aka Intersex Genital Mutilation, since 1997, reaching audiences of over one hundred million, via appearances in various documentaries about intersex people, including the first,\"Hermaphrodites Speak!\".\nand most notably on ABC's 20/20, \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", in Spanish on the Emmy nominated Spanish language show \"Caso Cerrado\", and at the UN Headquarters in New York City for Human Rights Day 2013.\n\nIn 2004, Viloria testified before the San Francisco Human Rights Commission in 2004, on the need to ban medically unnecessary cosmetic genital surgeries on intersex infants and children.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2017 Viloria published numerous essays speaking out against nonconsensual medically-unnecessary surgeries, also known as Intersex Genital Mutilation, in publications including CNN.com, The Advocate, The Huffingtion Post, and the Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics. Her memoir \"Born Both: An Intersex Life\", published March 14, 2017 by Hachette Books, examines and critiques Intersex Genital Mutilation extensively.\n\nIn 2006, the international medical establishment replaced the terms \"hermaphrodite\" and \"intersex\" with the term \"disorders of sex development\". Viloria is among a handful of American intersex activists who opposed the use of the term \"Disorders of Sex Development\" since its introduction. In 2007, she publicly critiqued the label and the homophobic and transphobic reasoning behind the replacement of 'intersex' with DSD. S/he also argued that being raised to define oneself as disordered is psychologically harmful to intersex youth:\n\nIn 2009, in response to the treatment of black South African track star Caster Semenya, who was rumored to be intersex, Hida lobbied as an independent intersex activist for equal rights for intersex female athletes on television and in print on CNN.com. In February 2010, then as Human Rights Spokesperson of the Organisation Intersex International (OII), s/he authored a petition to the International Olympic Committee demanding that intersex women athletes to be allowed to compete as is, and be de-pathologized. The action resulted in Viloria being invited to participate in the International Olympic Committee's October 2010 meeting of experts on intersex women in sports, in Lausanne, Switzerland, where she lobbied against adopting regulations which require intersex female athletes to undergo medically unnecessary medical procedures in order to compete as women, and against athletes being referred to as individuals with \"disorders of sex development\". As a result of Viloria's advocacy, the IOC and IAAF discontinued its use of \"disorders of sex development\" to describe the athletes in question, and replaced it with \"women with hyperandrogenism\".\n\nViloria has argued since 2009 that Olympic sex testing is applied in a way that targets 'butch,' or masculine-looking, women. In 2012, Viloria co-authored an article in the American Journal of Bioethics, with intersex Spanish hurdler Maria José Martínez-Patiño, the athlete responsible for overturning the IOC's long-standing mandatory chromosome testing policies, which critiqued the IOC's proposed regulations for women with high levels of naturally occurring testosterone (aka hyperandrogenism). Upon the release of the I.O.C.'s final regulations for intersex women with hyperandrogenism in 2012, s/he collaborated on an opinion piece with scholar Georgiann Davis and also told \"The New York Times\" that the issues for intersex athletes remain unresolved: \"Many athletes have medical differences that give them a competitive edge but are not asked to have medical interventions to 'remove' the advantage... The real issue is not fairness, but that certain athletes are not accepted as real women because of their appearance.\"\n\nOn Human Rights Day, 2013, Viloria became the first openly intersex person to speak at the U.N., by invitation, at the event \"Sport Comes Out Against Homophobia\", along with fellow \"out\" pioneers, tennis legend Martina Navratilova, and NBA player Jason Collins.\n\nIn 2014, Viloria advocated against the IOC and IAAF's regulations for women with hyperandrogenism on a panel on the Aljazeera television show The Stream. She also wrote about the interphobia and common misunderstandings around naturally occurring testosterone which drive sporting regulations for intersex women, in The Advocate.\n\nWith the advent of a new German law assigning visibly intersex infants to an 'indeterminate' gender, Viloria has argued that this approach to birth registrations fails to provide adequate human rights for intersex people, and fails to address the most critical need: for an end to normalizing surgical and hormonal interventions on infants and children.\n\nIn April, 2017, Viloria became the second American recipient of an intersex birth certificate, issued by the city of New York.\n\nIn spring 2010, Viloria joined the Organisation Intersex International, or OII, the first international intersex organization, was appointed Human Rights Spokesperson, and began lobbying against discriminatory regulations for intersex women athletes. In Spring 2011, Viloria was voted Chairperson of OII, upon founder Curtis Hinkle's retirement. Viloria stepped down in November 2017, when Intersex Campaign for Equality left OII.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, Hida founded the Intersex Campaign for Equality, to work for equality and human rights for intersex Americans. Her first action, in December, 2011, was contacting former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to request inclusion of intersex people in human rights protocols and protections. In early 2012 she received a response from the U.S. Department of State in early 2012 affirming the importance of including the intersex community in human rights work\n\nIn 2012, Viloria spearheaded the first unified, global call for human rights by and for intersex people, in a letter signed by thirty leading intersex advocacy organizations, to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.\n\nIn 2013, Viloria served as one of three intersex co-organizers of the Third International Intersex Forum in November 2013, in Malta, which led to the creation of the Malta declaration, the most widely agreed upon statement of human rights' demands by the international intersex advocacy community.\n\nIn 2016, Viloria became a board member of Genital Autonomy America (GA America), an advocacy organization working with groups worldwide who are seeking to end non-therapeutic genital cutting of all female, male, and intersex infants and children.\n\nHida spoke about being non-binary, also known as genderqueer, in the groundbreaking, award-winning 1999 documentary \"Gendernauts\".\n\nIn 2007, on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Viloria likened society's lack of understanding of non-binary people, and the pressure non-binary people experience to identify as men or women, to what people of mixed African-American and caucasian race sometimes experience, saying, \"Society pressures you to choose sides, just like they pressure mixed race people to decide, you know... 'Are you really black? Are you really white?'\" She went on to say \"I have both [sides].\".\n\nIn early 2015, she was featured in the web-based project \"Gender Talents\", by artist Carlos Motta, in which she discusses the many harms produced by, and erroneous presumptions about, Intersex Genital Mutilation. In September 2015, the UN's Free & Equal Campaign for Equality produced a video of Hida in conjunction with the release of their groundbreaking resource the Intersex Fact Sheet, and in 2016 Hida was one of the \"Intersex Voices\" featured in the Free and Equal Campaign for Equality's Intersex Awareness Campaign. In addition, she has also advocated against Intersex Genital Mutilation via essays, and in her memoir \"Born Both: An Intersex LIfe\".\n\n\nIn January 2017, Kirkus reviewed the memoir saying: \"Intelligent and courageous, [Born Both] chronicles one intersex person's path to wholeness, but it also affirms the right of all intersex and non-binary people to receive dignity and respect\". In May 2017, \"The New York Times\" reviewed \"Born Both\", saying: \"Viloria does us the even greater service (it's more of a gift, really) of showing us what it means to live not just as both a man and a woman but also as a third gender that eventually emerges as the right one.\"\n\nIn April, 2013, Viloria's intersex advocacy organization was selected as a finalist for the Kalamazoo College Global Prize for Collaborative Social Justice, administered by Kalamazoo College's Arcus Center for Social Justice Leadership. Viloria's memoir Born Both: An Intersex Life was selected by Bustle (magazine) as one of \"The 20 Best Non-fiction Books Coming in March 2017\", and as one of six books in \"People\" magazine's \"The Best New Books\" list in April, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "34996233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34996233", "title": "Irree Magh", "text": "Irree Magh\n\nIrree Magh () was a militant Manx nationalist group. In 1975 it distributed leaflets calling for the explusion of \"come-overs\" (Manx term for immigrants) and Manx Independence. The group called for \"open rebellion in order to preserve our nation, heritage and country (or what's left of it)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "710653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=710653", "title": "Latvian Russian Union", "text": "Latvian Russian Union\n\nThe Latvian Russian Union (, ) (LKS) is an ethnic minority, left-wing political party in Latvia, supported mainly by ethnic Russians and other Russian-speaking minorities. The co-chairpersons of the Latvian Russian Union are Tatjana Ždanoka, Jurijs Petropavlovskis and Miroslavs Mitrofanovs.\n\nThe party emphasizes issues important to the Russian minority in Latvia. It requests the granting of Latvian citizenship to all of Latvia's remaining non-citizens and supports Russian and Latgalian as co-official languages in municipalities where at least 20% of the population are native speakers of such a language. It supports stronger ties with Russia and was the only major political organization to oppose Latvia's membership in NATO. The Latvian Russian Union is very socially conservative, as is its voter base. Economic issues are less emphasized but the party's economic positions tend to be left-wing.\n\nThe party originated as the electoral alliance For Human Rights in a United Latvia (ForHRUL) (, PCTVL; , ЗаПЧЕЛ) that was established in May 1998 by three political parties: the National Harmony Party, Equal Rights and the Socialist Party of Latvia (despite the name a hardline communist organization), all of which were mainly supported by Russophone voters. The alliance won 16 out of 100 seats in the 1998 parliamentary election and 25 seats in the 2002 parliamentary election, as well as 13 out of 60 seats on Riga City Council in the 2001 municipal elections. After the municipal elections, ForHRUL became part of Riga's city government and National Harmony Party member Sergejs Dolgopolovs became the vice-mayor of Riga.\n\nDuring this period, ForHRUL's most prominent leaders were Jānis Jurkāns, Alfrēds Rubiks and Tatjana Ždanoka. Jurkāns was a leader of the Popular Front of Latvia and founder of the National Harmony Party; Rubiks and Ždanoka were prominent as leaders of the Interfront movement, the Latvian branch of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the federalist movement in Latvia in the early 1990s. They are fairly popular in the Russian community but very unpopular among ethnic Latvians. ForHRUL therefore remained in opposition, because other parties would have faced a backlash from ethnic Latvian voters if they entered into a coalition with Rubiks or Ždanoka.\n\nForHRUL partially broke up in 2003. The National Harmony Party was the first to leave the alliance and the Socialist Party followed half a year later. The remnant of ForHRUL consisted of Equal Rights and Free Choice in Peoples' Europe (, BITE). The latter was composed of dissident Socialist Party and National Harmony Party members, like Jakovs Pliners, who opposed the decision to quit the alliance. This reduced grouping had only 6 members of the Saeima (out of 25 that the alliance had before the breakup). ForHRUL was the main force supporting Russian School Defense Staff activities from 2003-2005.\n\nAt the first Latvian election to the European Parliament in 2004, ForHRUL gained one seat, held by Tatjana Ždanoka, who sat with the Greens–European Free Alliance group in the European Parliament. It also proposed the idea of a Europe-wide party of ethnic Russians. ForHRUL supported a federal Europe, with a \"common economic and political space from Lisbon to Vladivostok\".\n\nIn 2007 ForHRUL was transformed into a single party that retained the name and identity of the old electoral alliance. In recent years the party's support has declined as ethnic Russian voters have switched allegiance to the Harmony party, successor to the National Harmony Party. At the 2010 parliamentary election, the party lost its representation in the Latvian Parliament.\n\nIn 2011, the party launched an unsuccessful popular initiative on amending the law governing Latvian nationality. The Central Electoral Commission considered the proposed amendment to be incompatible with the Constitution of Latvia and the process of collecting signatures for a referendum on the proposals was suspended. This decision was eventually upheld by the Constitutional Court of Latvia and the Supreme Court of Latvia. It also supported the 2012 initiative to make Russian a co-official language in Latvia.\n\nIn January 2014 ForHRUL changed its name to the Latvian Russian Union. At the 2014 European Parliament election, it retained its single seat in the European Parliament. The party supported the annexation of Crimea by Russia in 2014 and has taken a pro-Russian stance in the subsequent War in Donbass. In August 2014 the party signed a cooperation agreement with the Crimean branch of Russian Unity to \"strengthen the unity of Russian world\". Russian Unity was instrumental in making the annexation of Crimea possible.\n\nIn 2018 Ždanoka resigned her mandate in the European Parliament and was succeed by Miroslavs Mitrofanovs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25422291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25422291", "title": "M.P.M. Builders, LLC v. Dwyer", "text": "M.P.M. Builders, LLC v. Dwyer\n\nM.P.M. Builders, LLC v. Dwyer, 442 Mass. 87, 809 N.E.2d 1053 (2004), was a case decided by the Massachusetts Supreme Court that first adopted the Restatement Third of Servitudes for the relocation of easements in that state.\n\nDwyer owned a dominant estate that had an easement across a parcel owned by M.P.M. Builders that connected to a public road at several points. M.P.M. wanted to develop the lots, but the easement ran through the planned development. M.P.M. proposed to relocate the easement and create new connections to the public road. Dwyer declined, and M.P.M. sought a declaratory judgment that they were allowed to unilaterally relocate the easement.\n\nThe lower Land Court ruled against M.P.M. The Massachusetts Supreme Court ruled that the Land Court correctly applied existing law, but that the standard for unilateral relocation of an easement by the owner of a servient estate in the Restatement Third of Servitudes was better suited to modern times. The Restatement allowed for unilateral relocation of the easement if it did not lessen the utility of the easement, increase the burdens on the owner of the easement, or frustrate the purpose of the easement. The court noted that this may often call for a hearing to determine what would constitute a reasonable relocation.\n\n"}
{"id": "30372982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30372982", "title": "Malino II Accord", "text": "Malino II Accord\n\nThe Malino II Accord was signed on 13 February 2002 as a settlement between warring parties in the Maluku sectarian conflict that commenced in 1999 in the Maluku Islands of Indonesia. (February 12 according to the UK's Foreign and Commonwealth Office).\n\nIt was signed in the Sulawesi town of Malino.\n"}
{"id": "8328331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8328331", "title": "Ministry of Education (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Technical Education is a ministry responsible for education in Egypt. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166798", "title": "Moderate Labour Party", "text": "Moderate Labour Party\n\nThe Moderate Labour Party was a minor political party in the United Kingdom. It was founded in about 1985 by former members of the Labour Party who were opposed to the miners' strike.\n\nIt was particularly active in Nottinghamshire. It stood 26 candidates in local elections, including 5 sitting councillors, none of whom won their seats. They stood two candidates in the 1987 general election against left wing Labour candidates, with chairman Brian Marshall standing in Mansfield against Alan Meale, and another candidate standing in Batley and Spen. Benefiting from the endorsement of retiring Labour MP Don Concannon, Marshall won 1,580 votes. The Conservative Party nearly took the seat, with the majority slashed from 2,216 to just 56.\n\nThe party again stood in the European Parliament election, 1994, winning 12,113 votes but not coming close to winning a seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "21620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21620", "title": "Noah Webster", "text": "Noah Webster\n\nNoah Webster Jr. (October 16, 1758 – May 28, 1843) was an American lexicographer, textbook pioneer, English-language spelling reformer, political writer, editor, and prolific author. He has been called the \"Father of American Scholarship and Education\". His blue-backed speller books taught five generations of American children how to spell and read. Webster's name has become synonymous with \"dictionary\" in the United States, especially the modern Merriam-Webster dictionary that was first published in 1828 as \"An American Dictionary of the English Language\".\n\nBorn in West Hartford, Connecticut, Webster graduated from Yale College in 1778. He passed the bar examination after studying law under Oliver Ellsworth and others, but was unable to find work as a lawyer. He found some financial success by opening a private school and writing a series of educational books, including the \"Blue-Backed Speller.\" A strong supporter of the American Revolution and the ratification of the United States Constitution, Webster hoped his educational works would provide an intellectual foundation for American nationalism; however, by 1820 he became a critic of the society he helped create.\n\nIn 1793, Alexander Hamilton recruited Webster to move to New York City and become an editor for a Federalist Party newspaper. He became a prolific author, publishing newspaper articles, political essays, and textbooks. He returned to Connecticut in 1798 and served in the Connecticut House of Representatives. Webster founded the Connecticut Society for the Abolition of Slavery in 1791 but later became somewhat disillusioned with the abolitionist movement.\n\nIn 1806, Webster published his first dictionary, \"A Compendious Dictionary of the English Language\". The following year, he started working on an expanded and comprehensive dictionary, finally publishing it in 1828. He was very influential in popularizing certain spellings in the United States. He was also influential in establishing the Copyright Act of 1831, the first major statutory revision of U.S. copyright law. While working on a second volume of his dictionary, Webster died in 1843, and the rights to the dictionary were acquired by George and Charles Merriam.\n\nWebster was born in the Western Division of Hartford (which became West Hartford, Connecticut) to an established family. His father Noah Sr. (1722–1813) was a descendant of Connecticut Governor John Webster; his mother Mercy (Steele) Webster (1727–1794) was a descendant of Governor William Bradford of Plymouth Colony. His father was primarily a farmer, though he was also deacon of the local Congregational church, captain of the town's militia, and a founder of a local book society (a precursor to the public library). After American independence, he was appointed a justice of the peace.\n\nWebster's father never attended college, but he was intellectually curious and prized education. Webster's mother spent long hours teaching her children spelling, mathematics, and music. At age six, Webster began attending a dilapidated one-room primary school built by West Hartford's Ecclesiastical Society. Years later, he described the teachers as the \"dregs of humanity\" and complained that the instruction was mainly in religion. Webster's experiences there motivated him to improve the educational experience of future generations.\n\nAt age fourteen, his church pastor began tutoring him in Latin and Greek to prepare him for entering Yale College. Webster enrolled at Yale just before his 16th birthday, studying during his senior year with Ezra Stiles, Yale's president. His four years at Yale overlapped the American Revolutionary War and, because of food shortages and threatened British invasions, many of his classes had to be held in other towns. Webster served in the Connecticut Militia. His father had mortgaged the farm to send Webster to Yale, but he was now on his own and had nothing more to do with his family.\n\nWebster lacked career plans after graduating from Yale in 1778, later writing that a liberal arts education \"disqualifies a man for business\". He taught school briefly in Glastonbury, but the working conditions were harsh and the pay low. He quit to study law. While studying law under future U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth, Webster also taught full-time in Hartford—which was grueling, and ultimately impossible to continue. He quit his legal studies for a year and lapsed into a depression; he then found another practicing attorney to tutor him, and completed his studies and passed the bar examination in 1781. As the Revolutionary War was still going on, he could not find work as a lawyer. He received a master's degree from Yale by giving an oral dissertation to the Yale graduating class. Later that year, he opened a small private school in western Connecticut that was a success. Nevertheless, he soon closed it and left town, probably because of a failed romance. Turning to literary work as a way to overcome his losses and channel his ambitions, he began writing a series of well-received articles for a prominent New England newspaper justifying and praising the American Revolution and arguing that the separation from Britain was permanent. He then founded a private school catering to wealthy parents in Goshen, New York and, by 1785, he had written his speller, a grammar book and a reader for elementary schools. Proceeds from continuing sales of the popular blue-backed speller enabled Webster to spend many years working on his famous dictionary.\n\nWebster was by nature a revolutionary, seeking American independence from the cultural thralldom to Britain. To replace it, he sought to create a utopian America, cleansed of luxury and ostentation and the champion of freedom. By 1781, Webster had an expansive view of the new nation. American nationalism was superior to Europe because American values were superior, he claimed.\n\nWebster dedicated his \"Speller\" and \"Dictionary\" to providing an intellectual foundation for American nationalism. From 1787 to 1789, Webster was an outspoken supporter of the new Constitution. In October 1787, he wrote a pamphlet entitled \"An Examination into the Leading Principles of the Federal Constitution Proposed by the Late Convention Held at Philadelphia,\" published under the pen name \"A Citizen of America.\" The pamphlet was influential, particularly outside New York State.\n\nIn terms of political theory, he de-emphasized virtue (a core value of republicanism) and emphasized widespread ownership of property (a key element of Federalism). He was one of the few Americans who paid much attention to French theorist Jean-Jacques Rousseau. It was not Rousseau's politics but his ideas on pedagogy in \"Emile\" (1762) that influenced Webster in adjusting his \"Speller\" to the stages of a child's development.\n\nWebster married well and had joined the elite in Hartford but did not have much money. In 1793, Alexander Hamilton lent him $1,500 to move to New York City to edit the leading Federalist Party newspaper. In December, he founded New York's first daily newspaper \"American Minerva\" (later known as the \"Commercial Advertiser\"), which he edited for four years, writing the equivalent of 20 volumes of articles and editorials. He also published the semi-weekly publication \"The Herald, A Gazette for the country\" (later known as \"The New York Spectator\").\n\nAs a Federalist spokesman, he defended the administrations of George Washington and John Adams, especially their policy of neutrality between Britain and France, and he especially criticized the excesses of the French Revolution and its Reign of Terror. When French ambassador Citizen Genêt set up a network of pro-Jacobin \"Democratic-Republican Societies\" that entered American politics and attacked President Washington, he condemned them. He later defended Jay's Treaty between the United States and Britain. As a result, he was repeatedly denounced by the Jeffersonian Republicans as \"a pusillanimous, half-begotten, self-dubbed patriot,\" \"an incurable lunatic,\" and \"a deceitful newsmonger ... Pedagogue and Quack.\" \n\nWebster was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1799.\n\nFor decades, he was one of the most prolific authors in the new nation, publishing textbooks, political essays, a report on infectious diseases, and newspaper articles for his Federalist party. He wrote so much that a modern bibliography of his published works required 655 pages. He moved back to New Haven in 1798; he was elected as a Federalist to the Connecticut House of Representatives in 1800 and 1802–1807.\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1831 was the first major statutory revision of U.S. copyright law, a result of intensive lobbying by Noah Webster and his agents in Congress. Webster also played a critical role lobbying individual states throughout the country during the 1780s to pass the first American copyright laws, which were expected to have distinct nationalistic implications for the infant nation.\n\nAs a teacher, he had come to dislike American elementary schools. They could be overcrowded, with up to seventy children of all ages crammed into one-room schoolhouses. They had poor, underpaid staff, no desks, and unsatisfactory textbooks that came from England. Webster thought that Americans should learn from American books, so he began writing the three volume compendium \"A Grammatical Institute of the English Language\". The work consisted of a speller (published in 1783), a grammar (published in 1784), and a reader (published in 1785). His goal was to provide a uniquely American approach to training children. His most important improvement, he claimed, was to rescue \"our native tongue\" from \"the clamour of pedantry\" that surrounded English grammar and pronunciation. He complained that the English language had been corrupted by the British aristocracy, which set its own standard for proper spelling and pronunciation. Webster rejected the notion that the study of Greek and Latin must precede the study of English grammar. The appropriate standard for the American language, argued Webster, was \"the same republican principles as American civil and ecclesiastical constitutions.\" This meant that the people-at-large must control the language; popular sovereignty in government must be accompanied by popular usage in language.\n\nThe \"Speller\" was arranged so that it could be easily taught to students, and it progressed by age. From his own experiences as a teacher, Webster thought that the \"Speller\" should be simple and gave an orderly presentation of words and the rules of spelling and pronunciation. He believed that students learned most readily when he broke a complex problem into its component parts and had each pupil master one part before moving to the next. Ellis argues that Webster anticipated some of the insights currently associated with Jean Piaget's theory of cognitive development. Webster said that children pass through distinctive learning phases in which they master increasingly complex or abstract tasks. Therefore, teachers must not try to teach a three-year-old how to read; they could not do it until age five. He organized his speller accordingly, beginning with the alphabet and moving systematically through the different sounds of vowels and consonants, then syllables, then simple words, then more complex words, then sentences.\n\nThe speller was originally titled \"The First Part of the Grammatical Institute of the English Language\". Over the course of 385 editions in his lifetime, the title was changed in 1786 to \"The American Spelling Book\", and again in 1829 to \"The Elementary Spelling Book\". Most people called it the \"Blue-Backed Speller\" because of its blue cover and, for the next one hundred years, Webster's book taught children how to read, spell, and pronounce words. It was the most popular American book of its time; by 1837, it had sold 15 million copies, and some 60 million by 1890—reaching the majority of young students in the nation's first century. Its royalty of a half-cent per copy was enough to sustain Webster in his other endeavors. It also helped create the popular contests known as spelling bees.\n\nAs time went on, Webster changed the spellings in the book to more phonetic ones. Most of them already existed as alternative spellings. He chose spellings such as \"defense\", \"color\", and \"traveler\", and changed the \"re\" to \"er\" in words such as \"center\". He also changed \"tongue\" to the older spelling \"tung\", but this did not catch on.\n\nPart three of his \"Grammatical Institute\" (1785) was a reader designed to uplift the mind and \"diffuse the principles of virtue and patriotism.\"\n\n\"In the choice of pieces,\" he explained, \"I have not been inattentive to the political interests of America. Several of those masterly addresses of Congress, written at the commencement of the late Revolution, contain such noble, just, and independent sentiments of liberty and patriotism, that I cannot help wishing to transfuse them into the breasts of the rising generation.\"\n\nStudents received the usual quota of Plutarch, Shakespeare, Swift, and Addison, as well as such Americans as Joel Barlow's \"Vision of Columbus\", Timothy Dwight's \"Conquest of Canaan\", and John Trumbull's poem \"M'Fingal.\" He included excerpts from Tom Paine's \"The Crisis\" and an essay by Thomas Day calling for the abolition of slavery in accord with the Declaration of Independence.\n\nWebster's \"Speller\" was entirely secular by design. It ended with two pages of important dates in American history, beginning with Columbus's discovery of America in 1492 and ending with the battle of Yorktown in 1781. There was no mention of God, the Bible, or sacred events. \"Let sacred things be appropriated for sacred purposes,\" wrote Webster. As Ellis explains, \"Webster began to construct a secular catechism to the nation-state. Here was the first appearance of 'civics' in American schoolbooks. In this sense, Webster's speller becoming what was to be the secular successor to \"The New England Primer\" with its explicitly biblical injunctions.\" Later in life, Webster became intensely religious and added religious themes. However, after 1840, Webster's books lost market share to the \"McGuffey Eclectic Readers\" of William Holmes McGuffey, which sold over 120 million copies.\n\nVincent P. Bynack (1984) examines Webster in relation to his commitment to the idea of a unified American national culture that would stave off the decline of republican virtues and solidarity. Webster acquired his perspective on language from such theorists as Maupertuis, Michaelis, and Herder. There he found the belief that a nation's linguistic forms and the thoughts correlated with them shaped individuals' behavior. Thus, the etymological clarification and reform of American English promised to improve citizens' manners and thereby preserve republican purity and social stability. This presupposition animated Webster's \"Speller\" and \"Grammar\".\n\nIn 1806, Webster published his first dictionary, . In 1807 Webster began compiling an expanded and fully comprehensive dictionary, \"An American Dictionary of the English Language;\" it took twenty-six years to complete. To evaluate the etymology of words, Webster learned twenty-eight languages, including Old English (Anglo-Saxon), Gothic, German, Greek, Latin, Italian, Spanish, French, Dutch, Welsh, Russian, Hebrew, Aramaic, Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit. Webster hoped to standardize American speech, since Americans in different parts of the country used different languages. They also spelled, pronounced, and used English words differently.\n\nWebster completed his dictionary during his year abroad in January 1825 in a boarding house in Cambridge, England. His book contained seventy thousand words, of which twelve thousand had never appeared in a published dictionary before. As a spelling reformer, Webster preferred spellings that matched pronunciation better. In \"A Companion to the American Revolution\" (2008), John Algeo notes: \"It is often assumed that characteristically American spellings were invented by Noah Webster. He was very influential in popularizing certain spellings in America, but he did not originate them. Rather […] he chose already existing options such as \"center, color\" and \"check\" on such grounds as simplicity, analogy or etymology.\" He also added American words, like \"skunk\" and \"squash\", that did not appear in British dictionaries. At the age of seventy, Webster published his dictionary in 1828, registering the copyright on April 14.\n\nThough it now has an honored place in the history of American English, Webster's first dictionary only sold 2,500 copies. He was forced to mortgage his home to develop a second edition, and his life from then on was plagued with debt.\n\nIn 1840, the second edition was published in two volumes. On May 28, 1843, a few days after he had completed revising an appendix to the second edition, and with much of his efforts with the dictionary still unrecognized, Noah Webster died. The rights to his dictionary were acquired by George and Charles Merriam in 1843 from Webster's estate and all contemporary Merriam-Webster dictionaries trace their lineage to that of Webster, although many others have adopted his name, attempting to share in the prestige.\n\nLepore (2008) demonstrates Webster's paradoxical ideas about language and politics and shows why Webster's endeavors were at first so poorly received. Culturally conservative Federalists denounced the work as radical—too inclusive in its lexicon and even bordering on vulgar. Meanwhile, Webster's old foes the Republicans attacked the man, labeling him mad for such an undertaking.\n\nScholars have long seen Webster's 1844 dictionary to be an important resource for reading poet Emily Dickinson's life and work; she once commented that the \"Lexicon\" was her \"only companion\" for years. One biographer said, \"The dictionary was no mere reference book to her; she read it as a priest his breviary—over and over, page by page, with utter absorption.\"\n\nNathan Austin has explored the intersection of lexicographical and poetic practices in American literature, and attempts to map out a \"lexical poetics\" using Webster's definitions as his base. Poets mined his dictionaries, often drawing upon the lexicography in order to express word play. Austin explicates key definitions from both the \"Compendious\" (1806) and \"American\" (1828) dictionaries, and finds a range of themes such as the politics of \"American\" versus \"British\" English and issues of national identity and independent culture. Austin argues that Webster's dictionaries helped redefine Americanism in an era of highly flexible cultural identity. Webster himself saw the dictionaries as a nationalizing device to separate America from Britain, calling his project a \"federal language\", with competing forces towards regularity on the one hand and innovation on the other. Austin suggests that the contradictions of Webster's lexicography were part of a larger play between liberty and order within American intellectual discourse, with some pulled toward Europe and the past, and others pulled toward America and the new future.\n\nIn 1850 Blackie and Son in Glasgow published the first general dictionary of English that relied heavily upon pictorial illustrations integrated with the text. Its \"The Imperial Dictionary, English, Technological, and Scientific, Adapted to the Present State of Literature, Science, and Art; On the Basis of Webster's English Dictionary\" used Webster's for most of their text, adding some additional technical words that went with illustrations of machinery.\n\nWebster in early life was something of a freethinker, but in 1808 he became a convert to Calvinistic orthodoxy, and thereafter became a devout Congregationalist who preached the need to Christianize the nation. Webster grew increasingly authoritarian and elitist, fighting against the prevailing grain of Jacksonian Democracy. Webster viewed language as a tool to control unruly thoughts. His \"American Dictionary\" emphasized the virtues of social control over human passions and individualism, submission to authority, and fear of God; they were necessary for the maintenance of the American social order. As he grew older, Webster's attitudes changed from those of an optimistic revolutionary in the 1780s to those of a pessimistic critic of man and society by the 1820s.\n\nHis 1828 \"American Dictionary\" contained the greatest number of Biblical definitions given in any reference volume. Webster considered education \"useless without the Bible.\" Webster released his own edition of the Bible in 1833, called the Common Version. He used the King James Version (KJV) as a base and consulted the Hebrew and Greek along with various other versions and commentaries. Webster molded the KJV to correct grammar, replaced words that were no longer used, and did away with words and phrases that could be seen as offensive.\n\nIn 1834, he published \"Value of the Bible and Excellence of the Christian Religion\", an apologetic book in defense of the Bible and Christianity itself.\n\nWebster helped found the Connecticut Society for the Abolition of Slavery in 1791, but by the 1830s rejected the new tone among abolitionists that emphasized Americans who tolerated slavery were themselves sinners. In 1837, Webster warned his daughter Eliza about her fervent support of the abolitionist cause. Webster wrote, \"slavery is a great sin and a general calamity—but it is not \"our\" sin, though it may prove to be a terrible calamity to us in the north. But we cannot legally interfere with the South on this subject.\" He added, \"To come north to preach and thus disturb \"our\" peace, when we can legally do nothing to effect this object, is, in my view, highly criminal and the preachers of abolitionism deserve the penitentiary.\"\n\nNoah Webster married Rebecca Greenleaf (1766–1847) on October 26, 1789, New Haven, Connecticut. They had eight children:\n\nHe moved to Amherst, Massachusetts in 1812, where he helped to found Amherst College. In 1822 the family moved back to New Haven, where Webster was awarded an honorary degree from Yale the following year. He is buried in New Haven's Grove Street Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30604516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30604516", "title": "Officetel", "text": "Officetel\n\nIn South Korea, an officetel (, a portmanteau of 'office' and 'hotel'), is a multi-purpose building with residential and commercial units.\nThis is a type of studio apartment or studio flat.\n\nAn officetel is designed to be a partially self-contained building, such that its occupants can live and work in the same building, minimizing commute time. Because of the convenience of having daily routines located in one building, a significant proportion of the officetel's inhabitants include lawyers, accountants, tax accountants, professors, and artists. Office space is usually parceled out or leased to trading companies and small- to medium-sized businesses.\n\nOfficetels are mainly found downtown or around major transportation hubs. As the scale of construction grows over time, officetels tend to offer more commercial and housing features through amenities like sports centers and shopping facilities. After the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the construction of officetels has increased rapidly due to governmental deregulations, and they are now taking a substantial portion of the housing market in the Seoul Metropolitan Area.\n\nOfficetel parcels are commonly 50 to 100 m² in size. Most officetel residential spaces are a studio apartment with bathroom, kitchen, and bed areas. Basic furnishings are usually included with an officetel lease. It is currently illegal to have an Ondol tub or balcony heating systems in an officetel.\n\nThe first officetel was built in Mapo, Seoul by the Korea Development Corporation in 1985. After that, demand increased, so construction companies and housing cooperations took part in the growing the trend of building officetels.\n"}
{"id": "13111079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13111079", "title": "Pan Sahel Initiative", "text": "Pan Sahel Initiative\n\nThe Pan-Sahel Initiative, according to a November 7, 2002, by the Office of Counterterrorism, U.S. Department of State, was \"a State-led effort to assist Mali, Niger, Chad, and Mauritania in detecting and responding to suspicious movement of people and goods across and within their borders through training, equipment and cooperation. Its goals support two U.S. national security interests in Africa: waging the War on Terrorism and enhancing regional peace and security.\" It was in 2005 superseded by the larger-scope Trans-Saharan Counterterrorism Initiative, which in turn was incorporated into the United States Africa Command in 2008. \n\nPSI drew criticism for its lack of attention of underlying regional economic problems and local political struggles, the conduct of partner governments against those suspected of being \"terrorists\", and for indirectly radicalizing certain groups living in or near the Sahara.-\n\"According to State Department officials, the Pan-Sahel region of Africa has become important in the global security arena. Vast expanses of unpopulated areas, instability, porous borders and corruption make Africa an inviting playground for terrorists.\" \nVoice of America's Alex Belida reported on November 14, 2003, that the \"multimillion dollar security training and equipment program\" was \"at last under way\" in Mali, \"a year after it was announced.\" The program was to continue in the other three countries \"over the next several months.\" \nBelida said that \"Army Colonel John Schnibben, operations director at U.S. European Command, responsible for most of sub-Saharan Africa, says the effort could have a big pay-off for the United States and its Sahel partners.\"\nBelida reported that in October 2002, \"AF DAS Robert Perry and S/CT Deputy Coordinator Stephanie Kinney, along with other State representatives, visited Chad, Niger, Mauritania and Mali, briefing host nations on the Pan-Sahel Initiative (PSI) ... a program designed to protect borders, track movement of people, combat terrorism, and enhance regional cooperation and stability.\"\nBeginning in November 2002, \"technical assessments\" took place in each country to \"help focus training and other capacity building resources.\" PSI was to \"assist participating countries to counter known terrorist operations and border incursions, as well as trafficking of people, illicit materials, and other goods.\"\nIn addition to the \"training and material support,\" the release states, another program would \"bring military and civilian officials from the four countries together to encourage greater cooperation and information exchange within and among the governments of the region on counterterrorism and border security issues.\"\nThe Associated Press reported on May 6, 2004, that \"The European Command has proposed expanding the Pan-Sahel Initiative to include Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, where terror threats are believed to be growing...\" [AP link not working.]\nIn the May 11, 2004, \"New York Times\", Craig Smith that the \"U.S. [is] Training African Forces to Uproot Terrorists.\" \nSmith says that the Pan-Sahel Initiative \"was begun with $7 million and focused on Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Chad. It is being expanded to include Senegal and possibly other countries. The U.S. European Command has asked for $125 million for the region over five years.\"The Pan-Sahel Initiative is the newest front in the \"American campaign against terrorism ... in a region that military officials fear could become the next base for Al Qaeda -- the largely ungoverned swath of territory stretching from the Horn of Africa to the Western Sahara's Atlantic coast,\" he writes.\n\"Generals here ... say the vast, arid region is a new Afghanistan, with well-financed bands of Islamic militants recruiting, training and arming themselves. Terrorist attacks like the one on March 11 [2004] in Madrid that killed 191 people seem to have a North African link, investigators say, and may presage others in Europe.\"\n\"Having learned from missteps in Afghanistan and Iraq,\" he says, \"the American officers are pursuing this battle with a new approach. Instead of planning on a heavy American military presence, they are dispatching Special Operations forces to countries like Mali and Mauritania in West Africa to train soldiers and outfit them with pickup trucks, radios and global-positioning equipment.\"\n\nDrew Brown, in his May 12, 2004, Knight Ridder article adds that \"Marine Corps Gen. James Jones, the commander of U.S. European Command, which covers most of Africa ... said that shortly after he took command of NATO in January 2002, a six-month analysis of U.S. force structure within European Command concluded that the United States likely would face a number of security challenges in Africa over the next 10 to 15 years and that a more robust engagement was needed.\n\n\"Late last year, soldiers from the 10th Special Forces Group began training military forces in Mali, Mauritania, Chad and Niger under the Pan-Sahel Initiative, a $7 million State Department program designed to help the security forces of those impoverished nations defend against terrorists.\n\n\"That effort follows the establishment of Task Force Horn of Africa, where more than 1,200 Marines and special-operations soldiers are heading up anti-terror training and operations in eastern Africa from a base in Djibouti.\n\n\"No U.S. forces have been committed to combat in Africa, Jones said. Involvement has consisted primarily of training and advisory teams.\"\n\nIn 2009, a \"NYTimes\" article reviewed the PSI, particularly as it played out in and now underlies current policy scenarios in Mauritania. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1464138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464138", "title": "Patrol", "text": "Patrol\n\nA patrol is commonly a group of personnel, such as law enforcement officers, military personnel, or private security contractors that are assigned to monitor a specific geographic area.\n\nThis is also often referred to as a beat.\n\nIn military tactics, a patrol is a sub-subunit or small tactical formation, sent out from a military organization by land, sea or air for the purpose of combat, reconnaissance, or a combination of both. The basic task of a patrol is to follow a known route with the purpose of investigating some feature of interest or, in the assignment of a fighting patrol (US combat patrol), to find and engage the enemy. A patrol can also mean a small cavalry or armoured unit, subordinate to a troop or platoon, usually comprising a section or squad of mounted troopers, or two AFVs (often tanks).\n\nIn non-military law enforcement, patrol officers are law enforcement officers assigned to monitor specified geographic areas—that is, to move through their areas at regular intervals looking out for any signs of problems of any kind. They are the officers most commonly encountered by the public, as their duties include responding to calls for service, making arrests, resolving disputes, taking crime reports, and conducting traffic enforcement, and other crime prevention measures. A patrol officer is often the first to arrive on the scene of any incident; what such an officer does or fails to do at the scene can greatly influence the outcome of any subsequent investigation. The patrol officer, as the person who is in the field daily, is often closest to potential crime and may have developed contacts who can provide information.\n\nThe Philadelphia Foot Patrol Experiment, a randomized control trial conducted by Temple University, has shown that foot patrols reduce crime. With the resources to patrol 60 locations, researchers identified the highest violent crime corners in the city, using data from 2006 to 2008. Police commanders designed 120 foot patrol areas around these corners, and stratified randomization was used to assign pairs of foot patrols with similar crime rates as either a comparison or a target area. Officers generally patrolled in pairs with two pairs assigned to each foot patrol. After three months, relative to the comparison areas, violent crime decreased 23%.\n\nOfficial records of police activities during the intervention period reveal the following in the target areas:\n\n\nAn emerging trend within patrol is the supplement of basic police patrol with that of private security agencies. The privatization of police is explored in James Pastor's book \"The Privatization of Police in America: An Analysis and Case Study\".\n\nLaw enforcement patrols don’t always just enforce the laws during the patrols. They also try and have community relations, will investigate traffic accidents and transport criminals. They will go to schools to talk about their jobs or about drugs and safe driving. In some large cities, the police chief will go around to meet and talk with business owners, residents or anyone in the city.\n\nFrom French \"patrouiller\" from Old French \"patouiller\" (“to paddle, paw about, patrol”) from \"patte\" (“a paw”)\n\nSome elementary schools use the term \"patrol\" to refer to students who are selected to monitor safety in the classroom or to those students who assist crossing guards with safety of children crossing busy streets. Another common term for this use of patrol is \"hall monitor\".\n\nIn Scouting, a patrol is six to eight Scouts (youth members) under the leadership of one of their number who is appointed Patrol Leader and supported by a Second or Assistant Patrol Leader. This is the basic unit of a Scout troop. The \"Patrol method\" is an essential characteristic of Scouting by which it differs from all other organizations, using the natural dynamics of the \"gang\" for an educational purpose.\n"}
{"id": "1496477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496477", "title": "Pax Syriana", "text": "Pax Syriana\n\nPax Syriana (Lat., \"Syrian Peace\") is a historiographical term, modeled after the original phrase \"Pax Romana\", used in the study of international relations in Western Asia, usually pertaining to efforts by Syria to influence its neighbors, particularly Lebanon. The idea behind Pax Syriana is that Syria, through diplomacy and military strength, could secure peace in Lebanon.\n\nAn earlier reference was published in \"Time\" magazine in 1976, referring to Syrian efforts to impose a truce during the early years of the Lebanese Civil War. It has recently been used to refer to the period between 1990 and 2005 when there was reduced conflict within Lebanon, usually attributed to Syrian hegemony and military domination in the region. It may be used with emphasis on the relative calm following suppression of the Lebanese Civil War, or on suggestions of Syria's having intentions for annexing or otherwise pacifying Lebanon.\n\nOn July 4, 1986, Syrian troops entered West Beirut for the first time since being expelled during the 1982 Israeli invasion. Approximately 500 Syrian troops, working with the Lebanese Army and police, cleared roadblocks, closed militia offices, and collected weapons. In mid-February 1987, however, a new round of fighting broke out in West Beirut, this time between Druze and Shia militias, both of which were regarded as Syrian allies. The combat was described by witnesses as being of unrivaled intensity in twelve years of war, with the militiamen using formations of Soviet-made T-54 tanks that Syria had supplied to both sides. Five days of combat caused an estimated 700 casualties and set much of West Beirut aflame.\n\nSyria acted decisively to stop the chaos in West Beirut, and it seized the opportunity to reimpose its hegemony over the areas in Lebanon from which it had been evicted by Israel in 1982. On February 22, 1987, it dispatched 7,500 troops, configured in two brigades and a battalion, from eastern Lebanon. The Syrian troops, most of whom were veteran commandos, closed down some seventy militia offices, rounded up and arrested militia leaders, confiscated arms caches, deployed troops along the major roads and at Beirut International Airport, established checkpoints, and sent squads on patrol in the streets.\n\nThe Syrian Army did not shy away from violence in its effort to restore order to the Lebanese capital. In the first two days of its police operation, Syrian troops shot some fifteen Lebanese of various militias. Then on February 24 a dozen trucks full of Syrian commandos entered the Basta neighborhood, a Shia stronghold, and attacked the Fathallah barracks, the headquarters of the Hezbollah organization. There, Syrian troops killed eighteen Hezbollah militants.\n\nIn mid-April the Syrian Army deployed troops south of Beirut. Approximately 100 Syrian commandos, fighting alongside soldiers of the Lebanese Army's Sixth Brigade, occupied key positions along the strategic coastal highway linking Beirut with southern Lebanon and took control of the bridge over the Awali River, near Sidon.\n\nBy mid-1987 the Syrian Army appeared to have settled into Beirut for a protracted stay. Lebanon's anomie was regarded by Syrian officials as an unacceptable risk to Syrian security. The government of Syria appeared prepared to occupy Beirut permanently, if necessary. The senior Syrian military commander in Lebanon, Brigadier General Ghazi Kanaan, said that militia rule of Lebanon had ended and that the Syrian intervention was \"open-ended,\" implying that Syria would occupy West Beirut indefinitely. Meanwhile, Syrian officials indicated that thousands of additional Syrian troops would probably be sent to Beirut to ensure stability. Kanaan declared that Syria would take full responsibility for the security of foreign embassies in West Beirut, and he invited foreign missions to return. Kanaan also promised that Syria would expend all possible efforts to secure the release of Western hostages held by Lebanese terrorists.\n\nThe name of the 2005 film \"Syriana\" was apparently inspired by \"Pax Syriana\". According to the film's publicity materials, \"Syriana\" was \"a very real term used by Washington think-tanks to describe a hypothetical reshaping of the Middle East.\" In an online discussion with \"The Washington Post\" in November 2005, \"Syriana\" director Stephen Gaghan said he saw Syriana as \"a great word that could stand for man's perpetual hope of remaking any geographic region to suit his own needs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "267428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267428", "title": "Resource allocation", "text": "Resource allocation\n\nIn economics, resource allocation is the assignment of available resources to various uses. In the context of an entire economy, resources can be allocated by various means, such as markets or central planning. \n\nIn project management, resource allocation or resource management is the scheduling of activities and the resources required by those activities while taking into consideration both the resource availability and the project time.\n\nIn economics, the area of public finance deals with three broad areas: macroeconomic stabilization, the distribution of income and wealth, and the allocation of resources. Much of the study of the allocation of resources is devoted to finding the conditions under which particular mechanisms of resource allocation lead to Pareto efficient outcomes, in which no party's situation can be improved without hurting that of another party.\n\nIn strategic planning, resource allocation is a plan for using available resources, for example human resources, especially in the near term, to achieve goals for the future. It is the process of allocating scarce resources among the various projects or business units.\n\nThere are a number of approaches to solving resource allocation problems e.g. resources can be allocated using a manual approach, an algorithmic approach (see below), or a combination of both.\n\nThere may be contingency mechanisms such as a priority ranking of items excluded from the plan, showing which items to fund if more resources should become available and a priority ranking of some items included in the plan, showing which items should be sacrificed if total funding must be reduced.\n\nResource allocation may be decided by using computer programs applied to a specific domain to automatically and dynamically distribute resources to applicants.\n\nThis is especially common in electronic devices dedicated to routing and communication. For example, channel allocation in wireless communication may be decided by a base transceiver station using an appropriate algorithm.\n\nOne class of resource whereby applicants bid for the best resource(s) according to their balance of \"money\", as in an online auction business model (see also auction theory). A study by Emmanuel Yarteboi Annan shows that this is highly important in the resource allocation sector.\n\nIn one paper on CPU time slice allocation\nan auction algorithm is compared to proportional share scheduling.\n\n"}
{"id": "6914082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6914082", "title": "Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana", "text": "Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana\n\nThe Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana (English: Universal Rural Employment Programme) was a scheme launched by the Government of India to attain the objective of providing gainful employment for the rural poor. From 1 April 1999, EAS became an allocation-based scheme. The programme was implemented through the Panchayati Raj institutions.\n\nThe Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana was launched on 1 September 2001 by merging the provisions of Employment Assurance Scheme (EAS) and Jawahar Gram Samridhi Yojana (JGSY). The programme is self-targeting in nature and aims to provide employment and food to people in rural areas who lived below the poverty line.\n\nThe Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana is an actually a combination of the provisions under the Employment Assurance Scheme (EAS) and Jawahar Gram Samridhi Yojana (JGSY).\n\nThe Food For Work Programme was restructured and renamed as National Rural Employment Programme in October 1980 by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and it became a regular Programme from April 1981. The Programme was launched during the Sixth Five Year Plan. It aims the implementation of additional employment to under employed persons. Central-state contribution was on the basis of 50:50 ratio. In 1989 NREP was merged with Jawahar Rozgar Yojana.\n\nJawahar Rozgar Yojana (JRY) was launched on April 1, 1989 by merging National Rural Employment Programme and Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Programme by Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The urban version of this program was Nehru Rozgar Yojana.\n\nThis was a consolidation of the previous employment programs and it was largest National Employment Program of India at that time with a general objective of providing 90-100 Days Employment per person particularly in backward districts. People below Poverty Line were main targets. The Yojna was implemented on rural scale. Every village was to be covered through Panchayati Raj Institutions. The village got aide and support from District Rural Development Authority. Expenditures were born by central & state in 80:20 ratios.\n\nSince 1993-94 the Yojna was made more targets oriented and expanded substantially through increased budgetary allocations. It was divided into 3 streams.\n\nFirst Stream: Comprising general works under JRY and also two sub schemes Indira Awas Yojana and Million Wells Scheme. This stream got 75% of the total allocation. In New Delhi Awas Yojna the allocation was increased from 6% to 10% and in Million Wells Scheme from 20% to 30% during that period.\n\nSecond Stream: This was also called intensified JRY and was implemented in selected 120 backward districts. It got 20% allocation.\n\nThird Stream: This was left with 5% allocation for Innovative programs which included Prevention of labor migration, drought proofing watershed etc. programs.\n\nSince April 1, 1999 this Yojna was replaced by Jawahar Gram samridhi Yojna. Later from September 25, 2001, Jawahar Gram Samridhi Yojna was merged with Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana.\n\nThe Jawahar Gram Smridhi Yojana, named after India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru aimed at creating a need-based rural infrastructure. Both these programmes have contributed a great deal towards alleviating rural poverty. In 2001, the Food for Work Programme was initiated to meet demands for wage employment and food grain requirements.\n\nThe scheme was formerly known as Jawahar Rozgar Yojana (JRY) which was launched in 1989 by merging two wage employment programmes: National Rural Employment Programme(NREP) and Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Programme (RLEGP). It was the single largest wage employment programme implemented through Panchayat Raj institutions.\n\nThe Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Programme (RLEGP) was launched on 15 August 1983 by Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi during the Sixth Five-Year Plan. The entire expenditure of this Programme was financed by Central Government. While most of the objectives and stipulations under this were similar to those of National Rural Employment Programme (NREP), it was to be limited only to the landless, with guaranteed employment of 100 days. Moreover, there was earmarking of funds specifically for certain activities- 25 per cent for social forestry, 10 per cent for works benefitting only the Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes and 20 per cent for housing under Indira Awaas Yojana. In the Seventh Plan, Rs.2412 crores were spent and 115 crore man days were generated with an average expenditure of Rs.21.00 per man day. Only 16 per cent had been spent on social forestry but 22 per cent had been spent on housing,- with over five lakh houses created for SC/ST and freed bonded labourers. Rural roads accounted for 22 per cent while other construction, minor irrigation, soil conservation etc. Each had a small share.\n\nIn 1989 this programme was merged with Jawahar Rozgar Yojana.\n\nEAS was first implemented on 2 October 1993 in 1778 blocks located in the rough, rugged, sparsely populated areas of the country.\n\nFinally, on 15 August 2001, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced a new wage employment programme, the Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana. The scheme was subsequently launched on 25 September 2001.\n\nThe scheme has special provisions for women, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and parents of children withdrawn from hazardous occupations. While preference if given to families below the poverty line, people who live above the poverty line too are eligible under this scheme.\n\nA budget of Rs. 10,000 crore has been allocated for the scheme, which includes provision of 50 lakh tonnes of food grains. Again the investment is shared between the centre and the states in the 75–25 ratio. Food grains are, however, provided free of cost by the Central government, but the cost of transportation should be borne by the states.\n\nDespite the fact that EAS and JGSY were unified, funds were allocated separately for EAS and JGSY for the year 2001–02. This was done for the convenience of implementation and accounting. However, from the fiscal year 2002–03 onwards, unified budgets were adopted for both EAS and JGSY.\n\nThe programme is implemented by the District Panchayats, Intermediate Panchayats and Gram Panchayats. The resources are allocated in the 20–30–50 ratio.\n\nThe Gram Panchayats commence their work based on the approval of the Gram Sabha. 50 percent of the funds for the Gram Panchayats are used for the development of infrastructure in SC/ST dominated areas. 22.5 percent of the funds allocated to District and Intermediate Panchayats are also used for the development of individuals belonging to SC/ST communities.\n\nThe employment of contractors or middlemen are not permitted under this scheme. However, this scheme was subsumed in NREGP which has been initiated since 2 Feb,2006.\n"}
{"id": "39831169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39831169", "title": "Samuel Bleichröder", "text": "Samuel Bleichröder\n\nSamuel Bleichröder (15 July 1779, Wriezen – 30 December 1855) was a German Jewish banker and financier. Located in Berlin, Bleichröder dealt with the Prussian court. He was also involved with the Rothschilds of Frankfurt.\n\nHis family originated from Bleicherode in Thuringia, hence the surname. Both his sons Gerson von Bleichröder and Julius Bleichröder became bankers.\n"}
{"id": "21512595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21512595", "title": "Science.gov", "text": "Science.gov\n\nScience.gov is a web portal and specialized search engine. Using federated search technology, Science.gov serves as a gateway to United States government scientific and technical information and research. Currently in its fifth generation, Science.gov provides a search of over 38 databases from 14 federal science agencies and 200 million pages of science information with just one query, and is a gateway to 1,900+ scientific websites.\n\nIn 2007, a report to Congress noted that in fiscal year 2007 \"Science.gov experienced 6.5 million search queries across all its scientific databases and 2.6 million page views of its website.\" By 2012, the site had reached 34 million page views annually. In April 2007, \"Library Journal\" included Science.gov in its list of best references of 2006. Science.gov is also the United States contribution to the international portal WorldWideScience.\n\nScience.gov 1.0 was launched in December 2002, providing for the first time wide public access and a unified search of the government's stores of scientific and technical information. Science.gov is an interagency initiative of 18 U.S. government science organizations within 14 Federal agencies. These agencies form the voluntary Science.gov Alliance.\n\nIn May 2004, Version 2.0 was launched, introducing real-time relevancy ranking to government science retrieval. This technology, funded by the Department of Energy, helps users sort through the government's research and return results relevant to individual needs. An advanced search capability and other enhancements were added. U.S. Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham and Director of the Office of Science Dr. Raymond L. Orbach both remarked positively on the launch of Science.gov 2.0 on May 11, 2004.\n\nA free \"Alert\" service was released in February 2005, allowing users to receive e-mail alerts about current science developments in their areas of interest. Up to 25 relevant results from selected information sources can be delivered. Results are displayed in the Alert email and in a personalized Alert Archive, which stores six weeks of alerts results. In the Archive, past activity can be reviewed and Alert profiles edited.\n\nLaunched in November 2005, Version 3.0 provided more refined search queries of federal science databases. In addition, fielded searching and Boolean capabilities were enhanced.\n\nIn February 2007, Science.gov 4.0 was launched. The new version was reviewed by Gale Cengage and Government Computer News. Version 4.0 allowed further refinement of search queries, allowing users to search within their original results. The relevancy ranking algorithms became more sophisticated, providing ranking of the entire full text of documents on sites where searchable full text resides. Date of the document was priority-weighted for ranking purposes. A new feature allowed users to share search results via e-mail.\n\nScience.gov 5.0 was launched in September 2008 and announced in a U.S. Department of Energy Press Release. The Oak Ridger covered the release as did UPI, Open Access News, Federal Computer Week, Econtent, and SLA Government Information Division. Clustering results into topics areas and the inclusion of Wikipedia topics and EurekAlert Science items related to the search were added.\n\nGovernance of Science.gov is provided by the interagency Science.gov Alliance. The Alliance is co-chaired by the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Geological Survey.\n\nScience.gov provides science search through a variety of features and capabilities, including:\n\n\nThe content for Science.gov is contributed by participating agencies including science professionals, students and teachers, and the business community. Many of these agencies are members of CENDI, which provides administrative support and coordination for Science.gov. Science.gov and the Science.gov Alliance were formed in response to the April 2001 workshop, \"Strengthening the Public Information Infrastructure for Science.\n\nThe web page search function is provided by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), and the \"Explore Selected Science Websites by Topic\" portion of the site is maintained by the CENDI Secretariat. The Science.gov website is hosted by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI), located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, which also supplies the site's \"deep web search\" capability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46447390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46447390", "title": "Scottish Council of Jewish Communities", "text": "Scottish Council of Jewish Communities\n\nThe Scottish Council of Jewish Communities (SCoJeC) is the representative body of all the Jewish communities of Scotland. It was founded in 1999 by the Board of Deputies of British Jews. Its primary function is to act on behalf of Scotland's Jewish Communities to all external bodies. It is also responsible for a variety of activities and publications to support Jews and Jewish Communities in Scotland, and fostering both good community relations and community cohesion.\n\nGeorge Reid, the former Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament, speaking at the SCoJeC AGM in 2007, said: \"SCoJeC is an example to other communities. I want to thank the Scottish Council of Jewish Communities for grasping the outstretched hand of the Parliament, and for getting involved. Ephraim and Leah [the Director and Deputy Director respectively] are weel kent figures to Ministers, to MSPs, to the senior civil servants, to the leaders of the STUC. You bring common sense and decency to everything you do. And you do engage – how you engage! In Scotland, your small community has made a remarkable contribution to our national life. Through the Scottish Council of Jewish Communities it has led to your full engagement with our new institutions.\"\n\nSCoJeC was formed in 1999, principally by the Glasgow Jewish Representative Council and the Edinburgh Hebrew Congregation, after Devolution to give the Jewish Community of Scotland a single democratically accountable voice in dealings with the Scottish Parliament and Government, other communities, and other statutory and official bodies. The intention, when it was established was for it to stand in the same relationship to the Scottish Government as the Board of Deputies of British Jews does to Her Majesty's Government.\n\nConsequently the Council is autonomous in matters devolved by the Scotland Act, such as justice, health and welfare, and community relations, whilst the Board of Deputies speaks for all Britain's Jews on reserved matters such as foreign affairs and equality legislation.\n\nSCoJeC is a democratic representative organisation, and the members of its Council are the elected representatives of each of the formally organised Jewish communities in Scotland – Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee – as well as two other informal groups, the Jewish Network of Argyll and the Highlands, and Jewish students studying in Scottish Universities and Colleges. There are also six coopted members of Council, who have wide experience of various aspects of public life in Scotland; these have included a former judge and law professor, a senior member of a local authority social work department, a professor of social policy, a consultant physician, and the head of a civil service department. In addition members of the community who are office-bearers of organisations to which SCoJeC is affiliated, such as the Board of Deputies and BEMIS are invited as observers.\n\nThe Council meets at least three times a year, and the Executive more frequently. The Council also consults widely within the Community, both with relevant communal organisations and with the orthodox, Reform, and Liberal communities before it makes representations to Government or others, and only does so when there is a clear consensus. Where opinion is diverse and deeply divided, as for example on matters relating to Middle East politics, the Council does not express an opinion unless there is an effect on the Community in Scotland.\n\nSCoJeC is registered as a Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation (no. SC 029 438 ).\n\nSCoJeC's functions generally fall into four key areas:\n\nSCoJeC's representative work is as wide-ranging as the areas of Scottish Government responsibilities that have the potential to affect Jews and Jewish life in Scotland, ranging from education through health and social care, to criminal justice and family law. Its main work includes promoting the understanding of Jewish religion, culture and community, and working to provide information and assistance to local authorities, other faith and ethnic communities, and educational, health and welfare bodies across the country. Furthermore SCoJeC makes representations on behalf of the Jewish Community in Scotland to the Scottish Government, Scottish Parliamentary committees, MSPs, and other bodies on issues concerning Jews in Scotland. Examples of this are as follows:\n\nSCoJeC's work in the community enables the Jewish communities in Scotland, and Jewish individuals living outwith any settled community, to connect with one another.\n\nSCoJeC works in partnership with other organisations to develop good relationships between communities. Activities include:\n\n\nSCoJeC also produces a number of resources aimed at furthering education on Jews in Scotland, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51389169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51389169", "title": "Senior Whip of the Liberal Party", "text": "Senior Whip of the Liberal Party\n\nThe Liberal Party's Senior Whip was a political post with the task of administering the \"whipping in\" system attempting to ensure that party MPs attend and vote according to the party leadership's wishes. All Liberal whips were members of the House of Representatives with none coming from the Legislative Council. The position held high esteem in the Liberal caucus and it was not uncommon for whips to move in to higher positions later on. Two (William MacDonald and George Forbes) would later serve as party leader. Forbes also served as Prime Minister from 1930 to 1935.\n\nThe following is a list of senior whips of the Liberal Party (including United) up until the establishment of the National Party:\n\n"}
{"id": "2387067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2387067", "title": "Shadow President", "text": "Shadow President\n\nShadow President is a geopolitical simulation video game released in 1993 for the PC by DC True containing elements of cyberpunk and dark science-fiction.\n\nThe game has a sequel called \"CyberJudas\".\n\nThe game put the player in the role of the President of the United States in a situation loosely based on the Cold War and the early 1990s. Using a timeline that starts during the end of the Ogaden War, players can prepare Kuwait to be invaded by Iraq during Operation Desert Shield. After dealing with the Iraqi adversaries, the player can opt to dethrone the military overlords and political cartels that are keeping the people of South America and Africa in relative poverty.\n\nBeing popular enough to be re-elected is a vital component of the game, though re-elections can be disabled which in turn greatly reduces the effect of popularity. Managing the budget of the United States, sending aid to foreign countries, dealing with diplomatic crises, and even fighting wars are a largely unavoidable aspect of the game. The player starts the game with seven advisors, which makes the game a bit less confusing. During every American election year, players are not allowed to access their virtual screen starting at midnight on election night so that a panel of bureaucrats can analyze their progress. If their popularity and efficiency is good enough, the player is authorized to use the terminal for four more years. Not getting re-elected automatically means \"game over.\"\n\nFurthermore, if the player makes poor decisions or abuses their power, their advisors may resign, Congress will attempt to impeach them, foreign governments may overthrow them, or terrorist groups may attempt an assassination.\n\nGameSpot currently has the game ranked at a 7.7/10 based on 13 reviews. Chuck Moss of \"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 wrote that \"Shadow President\" was a good learning tool but that \"As a simulation, it has certain real-world problems [and] certain ... anomalies\", such as Iraqi forces much more powerful than in the real Persian Gulf War. As a game, the magazine stated that \"you can't do cool stuff\" as the simulation \"forces one to be more passive than active if stability is the desired goal\", contrasting the game with \"more fun\" simulations like \"SimCity\" and \"Civilization\". The magazine concluded that \"Shadow President\" was \"a work of art that belongs in every civics classroom\", but \"even invading Canada is more fun\". In a 1994 survey of wargames the magazine gave the title three-plus stars out of five, stating that \"it has the 'highly educational' appendage, but that doesn't mean that it should be passed by\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43907613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43907613", "title": "Slovene Covenant", "text": "Slovene Covenant\n\nThe Slovene Covenant (\"Slovenska zaveza\") was an underground anti-communist organisation formed in Slovenia in April 1942 by a number of non-communist political parties after the killing of Avgust Praprotnik by operatives from the Security and Intelligence Service (\"Varnostnoobveščevalna služba\", VOS), a forerunner of the Yugoslav secret police. It \"adopted a political programme that strongly echoed the political positions of the OF\" (\"Osvobodilna fronta\"). In 1943 anti-communist forces including the Slovene Covenant engaged in armed conflict against Partisan forces in the country and were defeated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8348503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8348503", "title": "State Labor Party", "text": "State Labor Party\n\nThe State Labor Party, also known as State Labor Party (Hughes-Evans), was an Australian political party which operated exclusively in the state of New South Wales (NSW) in the early 1940s. The party was initially a far-left faction of the Australian Labor Party, strongly opposed to the right-wing faction of the party dominated by Jack Lang, the NSW Premier between 1925 and 1927, and again between 1930 and 1932.\n\nLang dominated the NSW Branch of the Labor Party, in the 1920s and for most of the 1930s, and his leadership had produced a great deal of instability in the NSW Labor Party, with Lang's dominant group seceding in 1931 and rejoining the (National) Labor Party in 1936. In 1940 Lang again seceded from Labor, along with several supporters, and formed a new party called the Australian Labor Party (Non-Communist), which operated in the Federal sphere from 1940 to 1941 but had only minority support in the Labor movement of NSW. Lang and his group were reconciled to Labor in late 1941. This reconciliation was to be short-lived and Lang again seceded in 1943.\n\nThis grouping, which was to become the State Labor Party (NSW), was led by Jack Hughes, President of the NSW Labor Council, and Walter Evans, General Secretary of the NSW Labor Party. Both of these men were undercover members of the Communist Party of Australia (CPA), and worked closely with the CPA executive leadership, which had adopted a policy of encouraging disaffected ALP members seeking membership of the CPA, to remain in the Labor Party as undercover operatives. With the outbreak of World War II, preceded by the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, the priority of the CPA was to work to ensure Australian neutrality towards the war in Europe. Hughes and Evans devoted their efforts towards this end, in their capacity as powerful executives within the ALP.\n\nUltimately, the position of the Hughes-Evans group came to be seen as untenable within the ALP, and their influence began to wane. In August 1940, the federal executive of the ALP moved to suspend the NSW executive, including Hughes and Evans. Several weeks later Hughes, Evans and their supporters formed a new party, the State Labor Party. This was only weeks away from the federal elections of September 1940. State Labor contested the poll for election to the House of Representatives in NSW, and achieved 6.6% of the vote in that state (2.6% nationally), but failed to see any of its candidates (including Greg McGirr) elected.\n\nThe party contested the NSW State elections of May 1941, and secured 5.6% of the primary vote, but again failed to secure any seats. The party's final attempt to gain parliamentary representation was at the federal election of August 1943, but it polled less than 1% nationally. Five months later (January 1944), the State Labor Party voted to end its own existence and amalgamated with the CPA.\n\n"}
{"id": "280761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=280761", "title": "Stonewall Book Award", "text": "Stonewall Book Award\n\nThe Stonewall Book Award is a set of three literary awards that annually recognize \"exceptional merit relating to the gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender experience\" in English-language books published in the U.S. They are sponsored by the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table (GLBTRT) of the American Library Association (ALA) and have been part of the American Library Association awards program, now termed ALA Book, Print & Media Awards, since 1986 as the single Gay Book Award.\n\nThe three award categories are fiction and nonfiction in books for adults, distinguished in 1990, and books for children or young adults, from 2010. The awards are named for Barbara Gittings, Israel Fishman, and (jointly) Mike Morgan and Larry Romans. In full they are the Stonewall Book Award-Barbara Gittings Literature Award, the Stonewall Book Award-Israel Fishman Non-Fiction Award, and the Stonewall Book Awards – Mike Morgan & Larry Romans Children's & Young Adult Literature Award.\n\nFinalists have been designated from 1990, and termed \"Honor Books\" from 2001. Currently a panel of librarians selects five finalists in each award category and subsequently selects one winner. The winners are announced in January and each receives a plaque and $1000 cash prize during the ALA Annual Conference in June or July. Winners are expected to attend and to give acceptance speeches.\n\nThe ALA solicits book suggestions each to be accompanied by a brief statement in favor of the book. Those are recommendations or \"applications\" to the Awards Committee from the public by email, which are not accepted from publishers, agents, authors, and others with vested interests.\n\nEligible books should be original works published in the U.S. during the preceding year, including \"substantially changed new editions\" and \"English-language translations of foreign-language books\".\n\nThe Gay Book Award was inaugurated in 1971, recognizing \"Patience and Sarah\", a historical novel by Alma Routsong as Isabel Miller, which had been self-published by Routsong in 1969. Originally it was a \"grassroots acknowledgment\" of GLBT publishing and there was \"only a handful\" of books to consider annually. By 1995 there were more than 800.\n\nIn 2002 the awards, then two, were jointly named after the site of the\n1969 Stonewall riots.\n\n\nFrom 1986 the Gay Book Award and its descendants have been part of the American Library Association awards program, now termed ALA Book, Print & Media Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42050177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42050177", "title": "Stop Population Growth Now", "text": "Stop Population Growth Now\n\nStop Population Growth Now is a registered political party in South Australia led by Bob Couch. The party contested the 2014 state election in the Legislative Assembly (upper house) with a 0.4 percent vote.\n\nIn the 2018 State Election, the party ran in both the upper house and the House of Assembly (lower house) in the seat of Unley. The party gained precisely 1.2% in both electorates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48452995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48452995", "title": "Tucson Pride", "text": "Tucson Pride\n\nTucson Lesbian and Gay Alliance (dba: Tucson Pride) is Arizona's first and oldest LGBT pride organization and one of the oldest LGBT pride organizations in the nation. Tucson Pride organizes and promotes the greater Tucson metropolitan areas LGBT pride parade (\"Pride on Parade\") and pride festival (\"Pride in the Desert\") which are currently held at the start of October each year in Tucson, Arizona, to celebrate the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community and their allies.\n\nTucson Pride is a non-profit organization. All members of the Board of Directors for Tucson Pride, as well as its committees, serve on a strictly volunteer basis. No member receives any payment, financial or otherwise, for serving.\n\nThe Tucson Pride events, \"Pride on Parade\" and \"Pride in the Desert\" are funded by a combination of community fundraising by the pride committee, corporate sponsorship's, vendor fees and donations collected from the participants at the festival.\n\nTucson Pride is a member of CAPI (Consolidated Association of Prides, Inc.) and Interpride.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6392115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6392115", "title": "Wireless intrusion prevention system", "text": "Wireless intrusion prevention system\n\nIn computing, a wireless intrusion prevention system (WIPS) is a network device that monitors the radio spectrum for the presence of unauthorized access points \"(intrusion detection)\", and can automatically take countermeasures \"(intrusion prevention)\".\n\nThe primary purpose of a WIPS is to prevent unauthorized network access to local area networks and other information assets by wireless devices. These systems are typically implemented as an overlay to an existing Wireless LAN infrastructure, although they may be deployed standalone to enforce no-wireless policies within an organization. Some advanced wireless infrastructure has integrated WIPS capabilities.\n\nLarge organizations with many employees are particularly vulnerable to security breaches caused by rogue access points. If an employee (trusted entity) in a location brings in an easily available wireless router, the entire network can be exposed to anyone within range of the signals.\n\nIn July 2009, the PCI Security Standards Council published wireless guidelines for PCI DSS recommending the use of WIPS to automate wireless scanning for large organizations.\n\nA wireless intrusion detection system (WIDS) monitors the radio spectrum for the presence of unauthorized, rogue access points and the use of wireless attack tools. The system monitors the radio spectrum used by wireless LANs, and immediately alerts a systems administrator whenever a rogue access point is detected. Conventionally it is achieved by comparing the MAC address of the participating wireless devices.\n\nRogue devices can spoof MAC address of an authorized network device as their own. New research uses fingerprinting approach to weed out devices with spoofed MAC addresses. The idea is to compare the unique signatures exhibited by the signals emitted by each wireless device against the known signatures of pre-authorized, known wireless devices.\n\nIn addition to intrusion detection, a WIPS also includes features that prevent against the threat \"automatically\". For automatic \nprevention, it is required that the WIPS is able to accurately detect and automatically classify a threat.\n\nThe following types of threats can be prevented by a good WIPS:\n\nWIPS configurations consist of three components:\n\n\nA simple intrusion detection system can be a single computer, connected to a wireless signal processing device, and antennas placed throughout the facility. For huge organizations, a Multi Network Controller provides central control of multiple WIPS servers, while for SOHO or SMB customers, all the functionality of WIPS is available in single box.\n\nIn a WIPS implementation, users first define the operating wireless policies in the WIPS. The WIPS sensors then analyze the traffic in the air and send this information to WIPS server. The WIPS server correlates the information, validates it against the defined policies, and classifies if it is a threat. The administrator of the WIPS is then notified of the threat, or, if a policy has been set accordingly, the WIPS takes automatic protection measures.\n\nWIPS is configured as either a network implementation or a hosted implementation.\n\nIn a network WIPS implementation, server, sensors and the console are all placed inside a private network and are not accessible from the Internet.\n\nSensors communicate with the server over a private network using a private port. Since the server resides on the private network, users can access the console only from within the private network.\n\nA network implementation is suitable for organizations where all locations are within the private network.\n\nIn a hosted WIPS implementation, sensors are installed inside a private network. However, the server is hosted in secure data center and is accessible on the Internet. Users can access the WIPS console from anywhere on the Internet. A hosted WIPS implementation is as secure as a network implementation because the data flow is encrypted between sensors and server, as well as between server and console. A hosted WIPS implementation requires very little configuration because the sensors are programmed to automatically look for the server on the Internet over a secure TLS connection.\n\nFor a large organization with locations that are not a part of a private network, a hosted WIPS implementation simplifies deployment significantly because sensors connect to the Server over the Internet without requiring any special configuration. Additionally, the Console can be accessed securely from anywhere on the Internet.\n\nHosted WIPS implementations are available in an on-demand, subscription-based software as a service model.\nHosted implementations may be appropriate for organizations looking to fulfill the minimum scanning requirements of PCI DSS.\n\n"}
